{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__anonymous___report_on_freemasonry_and_masons.pdf","mytitle":"Report On Freemasonry And Masons","mylang":"de"}
o
REPORT
0 9 TH E COM1CITTKS APPOINTED XT TH E G ENERAL ASSEMBLY O f TXX
•T A T S O f RHODB-ISLAXD AND f XOVIDXNCX PLA NTA TIO N S,
TO INVESTIGATE TH E CHARGES IN CIXCVLATION AGAINST
FREEMASONRY AND MASONS
IN SAID STATE:
TOGETHER WITH ALL THE
OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND TESTIMONY
RELATING TO THE SUBJECT.
PROVIDENCE:
Publish*! by order of the General Assembly, superintended by th e Committee;
WILLIAM MARSHALL, STATE PRINTER.
183*. /
U
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
S' . P /A»0 C
O
L
L
E
G
E L
IB
R
A
R
Y
W
iN
SlO
WL
E
W
IS T
R
A
C
T
S
SIFTOf T
H
E
H
E
WE
N
G
L
A
N
D
H
IS
T
O
R
IC
*8INEAL0GC : c "
l< ;
N
O
V
E
M
B
E
R26 ■
Entered, according to act of Congress, m the year 1832, by William Marshall,
m the Clerk's Offioe ofthe District Court of Rbode-IslancL *
Digitized by Google
State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantation—in
General Assembly, October Session, A. D. 1831.
Whereas the crimes and enormities within a few years
commited in a neighboring State, by certain Freemasons,
avowedly in the cause of masonry, have excited universal
indignation and abhorrence, and have awakened jealousies
and suspicions very unfavorable to. all masonic institutions,
and under the weight of which the whole masonic fraterni­
ty,—the good and the virtuous as well as the vicious, must
unavoidably suffer. Therefore, in the hope of allaying the
great and increasing excitement thus occasioned, and that
the innocent may be distinguished from the guilty, if in this
State there are any who can justly be charged with advo­
cating the criminal doctrines imputed to freemasonry,—
, Resolved, That Messrs. Hazard, W. Sprague, Jr. Sim­
mons, Haile, and E. R. Potter, with such others as the
Hon. Senate may think proper to add, be and they are
hereby appointed a committee fully to investigate and in­
quire into the causes, grounds, and extent of the charges
and accusations brought against freemasonry, and masons
inthis State ; and that said committee, so far as may be
necessary to enable them to perform this duty, be empow­
ered to administer oaths, to examine witnesses, and to call
for books and papers.
In the Senate read the same dqy and concurred, with the
addition of Mr. Cornell,
. True Copy: Witness,
•HENRY BOW EN, Sec’ry.
Digitized by Google
\
t
Digitized by Google
REPORT, k c .
The Committee appointed to inquire into the comes, grounds and extent of
the charges and accusations note in circulation against Freemasonry and
Jtiasons in this State, Report,
That from the moment of their appointment they were fully sen*
sible of the peculiar nature of the investigation they were to engage
in. The charges to be inquired into were, roost ofthem, ofa general,
indefinite, irresponsible character: yet, in their scope and tendency,
imputing motives, designs, principles and practices; adverse to religion
and morality, subversive or civil government and incompatible with all
the social and civil virtues and duties; imputing these to a large portion
of the community in which we live; a portion connected and amalga­
mated with the rest throughout the state by all those ties of common
interests, pursuits, sympathies and feelings, of daily intercourse, of
friendships and ofkindred, by which society itself is bound and held
together.
All these high charges were also to be gathered from various print­
ed addresses, memorials, reports of meetings and committees, from
numerous pamphlets and newspapers; and, when collected, were to
be put into some tangible shape and order for examination. And,
while taking this preparatory survey of the task before them,
the committee could not but be aware that, as the whole of these
charges, in their application to masonry and masons in this state, had
been framed or propagated by an association which had for some time
been organized among us, and had lately declared or avowed itself to
be a political antimasonic party; it was probable that that party, or
rather the more active and zealous leaders of it, might consider them­
selves as having a particular interest in those charges \ and as being
entitled to take a managing part in the investigation before the com*
roittee. Such a claim, in tact, had adready been advanced even be­
fore the General Assembly, in the instance of the antiraasoriic memo­
rial, which had been presented by the same association, and which
association had, at a meeting held by them a few weeks before, in­
structed a committee “ to attend to the memorial before the Gen­
eral Assembly, and to employ counsel for that purpose!” And as the
*charges in that memorial, as far as they went, were the same char­
ges which the committee were to inquire into; it was more than
probable that those memorialists, or their committee, (and perhaps
counsel,) would expect to be recognized by the committee as a par­
ty concerned; and, should they be so recognized, would of course
expect also to be received in the same capacity before the Gencrr
y| Digitized by Google
6
Assembly, whenever that body should again have that subject under
consideration.
It became very necessary therefore that the members of the com­
mittee should make up their minds decidedly upon the course it would
be proper for them to adopt, should such an appearance be made be­
fore them. Upon this point the committee were already apprised of
the sentiments of one branch of the legislature. The house ofrepre­
sentatives had, unanimously, or without a dissenting voice, decided
virtually and in effect, that, the signers to that memorial, in present­
ing it, had done all that they had to do, and had no further business be­
fore the house; and it was the opinion ofthose of the committee who
Conversed together upon the subject, that the senate could not well
come to any different conclusion.
The memorial indeed, could only be considered as a paper profes­
sing tp communicate facts and information touching matters ofgeneral
Concern and interest, and in which the informants could have no more
interest than*any other portion of the community. If the communi­
cation contained any thing deserving of attention, the General Assem­
bly would no doubt avail themselves of it, in their legislative capaci­
ty, without requiring the aid of individuals or parties.
That those who signed the paper called themselves memorialists
was^a circumstance ofno significance. So might any other set of in­
dividuals take it into their heads to memorialize the legislature upon
the subject of the criminal code of laws, or the statute of descents,
or the organization of the.cpurts \ and might call themselves memori­
alists and claim to be heard in the discussion of those weighty subjects.
But the General Assembly would exhibit a strange spectacle should
they allow their ^time thus to be occupied. And into what a state
would society itself be thrown were particular parties, or associations
of men, religious or political, to be allowed not only to present their
memorials to the General Assembly, charging other societies, con­
gregations, churches or parties with doctrines~and practices inimical
to the interests of religion and subversive of civil government, but to
call the accused before the legislature to stand upon their defence,
they, the accusers, claiming the right of conducting the prosecution!
The fact that the memorialists in the present case, had recently resol­
ved themselves to be a political party, if it altered the case, certainly
did not better it. For if they felt a particular political party inter­
est, in pressiug the charges, it could only be a selfisl^ sinister inter­
est, adverse to the common interest. An interest, in fact, which
could not with decency be avowed bv themselves, nor with proprie­
ty recognized by the General Assembly or by their committee. Thus
the political antimasonic party could not possibly have any fair, sep­
arate interest in the charges contained in the memorial, or in any oth­
er publications of the party. On the contrary, as far as the interests of
religion and morality were concerned in those charges, it would seem
that such interests might be better cared for and looked to by relig­
ious men or societies than by a political party which had its own party
purposes to serve* And if the regular operations of government and
the impartial administration of justice were obstructed or in jeopardy
(as they were said to be,) perhaps the Attorney General might be the
¥ Di itized by '
7
proper organ to be consulted, if necessary. And, whether, or not,
the general welfare and common interests of the community were in
danger of being undermined and prostrated, the General Assembly,
by itself, or its committees, were competent to make all necessary
inquiries.
It was to this end that it was made the duty of ^his committee to
examine thoroughly and strictly into the charges which had been put
in circulation; in order that the public, beiBg m possession of all the
facts and evidence, might judge for themselves whether and how far
those charges were founded in truth: or whether and how far they
bad been fabricated, aggravated or misrepresented by persons inter­
ested in propagating them as was declared to be the fact by masons;
who, of course, had an equal right with their adversaries to make
charges. To this object of their appointment the committee have
devoted their best exertions.
They gave early notice in several^of the Newport and Providence
newspapers of the time, place and object oftheir meeting: And there­
in mentioned that they would notify, personally, those persons whom
they might think proper to examine: and added, that they would also
readily receive and attend to all information, facts, circumstances and
suggestions in writing, which any individuals might have to communi­
cate to them, and which might aid them in making the thorough inves­
tigation which would be expected of them. Agreeably to this notice
the committee met at the State house in Providence onrtlie sixth of
December last, two only of their number being absent, viz. Mr. Pot­
ter and Mr. Cornell, the latter of whom afterwards joined them. And
considering it necessary that they should adopt some rules, in con­
formity to which tlie examination should be conducted, they agreed,
in the first place, to pursue the course indicated in their public no­
tice; and, furthermore, that all persons interesting themselves in the
examination should be supplied with summons’ or written requests
to all such witnesses as they might name, and should be permitted
to hand in questions in writing, to be put to the witnesses by the
committee, if proper. It was also thought advisable that a set of
standing interrogatories should be framed for the purpose of drawing
out from the witnesses of every description, masons, seceding masons
and others, all the facts and information in their knowledge; a copy
of which interrogatives as finally completed, accompanies this report.
The committee were aware that the masonic witnesses would prob­
ably have scruples about disclosing their masonic secrets, which they
had promised not to disclose. And upon this head they rosolved
unanimously, that they would require the masons to communicate to
them fully, without reserve, their masonic oaths or obligations, and
to answer all questions which should be asked respecting them—
those obligations not being considered as part of their secrets.
And as to tneir signs, and tokens, and words, contrived to enable
masons, and none others, to enter lodges and to distinguish one an­
other from those not masons, a majority of the committee believed
that-the public would have no curiosity about them, and that it
ufould not be a profitable or creditable employment for the commit­
tee-to endeavor to pry into them. One member said that he cared
Digitized by " O O ^ i C
8
nothing about them himself, being already satisfied respecting them,
but he suggested that some of the signs might have a reference to
the obligations, and thus lead to explain them.
Others of the the committee observed that as those signs &c. would
undoubtedly be fully disclosed by seceding masons, and indeed al-
ready had been; i^could hot be necessary to press masons with ques«
tions which, they thought, they could not conscientiously answer;
and which, if they did answer, could bring out nothing which was not
already* fully known; and nothing,, (as appeared by the antimasonic
books themselves,) which could be of the least importance or signifi­
cance; or with which the community at large could have the slightest
concern. It was understood that the masons themselves did not de­
ny that what was called their secrets had been fullv disclosed in the
publications of the day. With regard to their obligations the case
was quite different. They denied explicitly that they ever took any *
such oaths as were contained in the antimasonic books. They were
therefore bouqd to showjvhat were the oaths they did take; for the
public had a right to knew whether their masonic obligations were or
were not, incompatible with their civil obligations. It was consider­
ed that there was<a marked difference in the situation of masons and
seceding masons, as witnesses. A seceder who believed that the
masonic oaths he hadrtakenwrere criminal and of course void: that
the institution itselfand all its ceremonies were criminal;—such a man,
(if sincere,) could, with a clear conscience, expose every thing he
knew relating to masonry. But, on the contrary, a mason who sin­
cerely believed that masonry was merely a charitable, and therefore
a meritorious and useful institution; that the masonic obligations, in­
stead of conflicting with, inculcated the religious, moral, civil and
social duties and virtues; and that their secrets, as they were called,
consisted merely of certain signs, &c. necessary to masonic inter­
course, but having no manner of bearing upon the rest of the com­
munity:—a mason, who sincerely believed this, and felt himself
bound by the promise he had interchanged with his brethren, not
to divulge those signs &c.:—such a man, should he, notwithstanding,
disclose those signs, tokens, words &c. would unquestionably forfeit„
his word and his honor.
This it was not thought proper he should be asked to do, espe­
cially for the mere gratification of insulting or wounding the feelings
of the witness. This being the case, it was plain that if the same
rule of examination should be applied to masons and seceding ma­
sons, it would in its operation be glaringly unequal and unjust. For
these, and other reasons, a majority of the committee were decidedly
of opinion that questions having such an object or tendency as above
mentioned ought not to be put to masonic witnesses. And as no ob­
jection, other than what has been before stated, was made by any
member, they did at the time suppose that the course of proceeding
agreed upon by them was unanimously approved of, or at least unan­
imously acquiesced in. It was communicated to the committee that
some gentlemen of the masonic fraternity, considering themselves to
be placed in a delicate situation, were anxious to be informed what
would be expected of them by the committee. The committee
y
Google
Digitized by *
9
thought it right that this request should be complied with, and re­
quested their chairman to inform them of the course of proceeding
with respect to the examination of masonic witnesses which the com­
mittee had agreed upon. This was accordingly done, and the com­
mittee were so informed by the chairman. With these arrangements
the committee commenced the examinations on Wednesday,'Dec. x
7th, and soon found that there was little probability of their being
left without business.
A number of the principal masons, who had been summoned, at­
tended punctually : And on the other hand, although the antimasonic
association (having rightly understood the public notice in which
individuals had been invited to communicate in writing whatever in­
formation they might be possessed of,) did not, as they had once be­
fore the General Assembly, present themselves as a prosecuting par­
ty, or as a party concerned or interested: Yet a considerable number
of the leading and most active members of the party—most, if not all,
of whom were signers of the memorial before mentioned; and were
those who composed what was called'uthe State Committee,” which
was appointed oy the antimasonic convention in September last; (the
president of the convention being one of the committee;) and was
then clothed with power to make arrangements for an antimasonic
prox in the spring—these, or most ofthem, in their individual capac­
ity constantly attended the examinations and took part in them. Sev­
eral of them were stationed at the table, and were freely supplied
with stationary by order of the committee. They were likewise
supplied with summons’ or written requests to all such persons as
they expressed a'wish to bring before the committee; and, with the
aid of their friends around them, they were btisily employed in bring­
ing forward witnesses, in taking notes of the proceedings, and in pre­
paring and handing in questions to the committee. , In all which they
were encouraged oy the committee, and every facility and indulgence
was afforded to them. The same attentions were shown to those of
the masons who took part in the examinations, _ '
The examinations in Providenco occupied the committee more
than ten hours of each day, on an average, for the term of ten days.
They adjourned on Saturday night, the 17th Dec. to meet again at
Newport on the Wednesday following. It was not expected howev­
er that more than two of the committee would be able to attend there.
Nor was it thought necessary that any number of members should
be present at the taking of depositions: the proceedings were all
public, and the depositions taken and signed by the witnesses them­
selves, would all be before the committee when they should meet to
agree upon their report.
The examinations in Newport occupied eleven days; and during
the same time a number of further depositions were taken in Provi­
dence and in Warren by other members of the committee. The ex­
amination of the first masonic witness in" Newport occupied one en­
tire day. A great deal of time was necessarily consumed in reading
over the long and numerous manuscript forms of masonic obligations
in the various degrees, aud in questioning him minutely respecting
iheir several parts and the differences between them and other differ-
® Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
10
eat forms which were produced for the purpose of being compared
with them. Full answers were also taken to all the standing interro­
gatories, and to a number of other questions handed in by aaliraasons.
In order to avoid the continual repetition of the same forms o f
proceeding upon the examination of every subsequent witness, which
coujd only be productive of a great deal of unnecessary labor and
loss of time, the deposition first completed, together with all the in­
terrogatories, the forms of thejnasonic obligations and a sheet of va­
riations collected from tbe different forms contained in antimasonic
books, were put into tbe hands of a respectable mason, (the same
whose deposition had just been taken) who was requested to have
together a number of the principal masons, who would be expected
to give their depositions; and to have all those papers read over to
them deliberately once for all. This was done solely for tbe accom­
modation of the committee, and to save unnecessary trouble and
waste of time. The committee are assured that no other deposition
taken by them or any individual member has been at any time out of
their hands. Although there could be no more impropriety in per­
mitting a respectable witness, in whose integrity entire confidence
could be placed, to have the perusal, at home or elsewhere, of any
deposition previously taken, than in allowing him to be present when
that and all the other depositions were taken; and, if he pleased, to
take down in writing the whole of the testimony given.
>The proceedings of the committee were unavoidably laborious and
tedious; but were not rendered more so l>y any attempt, in their
presence, to embarrass or impede them. All those who appeared,
whether as witnesses, or to tak^ part in the examinations, conduct­
ed themselves, (with one exception, which will be presently noticed)
while before the committee, with strict propriety. And, what was
of still more importance, all the1
members of the committee acted to­
gether \n perfect harmony. And throughout the whole examinations
nothing occurred in the slightest degree unpleasant, except in a sin­
gle instance, and that of little importance.
In tbe evening of the seventh day of the examinations in Provi­
dence, when a long deposition of one of the masonic witnesses was
aboot being closed, a question was handed in involving a call upon
the witness to acknowledge some masonic sign or.simbol referred to
m the question. This question was immediately rejected as mani­
festing a disregard to the rule of the committee which had been re­
peatedly announced, and acted upon invariably up to that time; and
in pursuance of which rule the present witness before lie was engag­
ed, was informed, (as the masonic witnesses generally had beeu) that
he would not be required to answer any question about the masonic
signs, &c. &c. One of the committee (the chairman) observed in
substance, thai the rule in question had been unanimously agreed
upon by the committee, or that he had heard no member dissent
when the committee had finally adopted it. They had maturely con­
sidered the subject, and had no idle curiosity to gratify by prying in­
to the frivolities of masonry, and endeavoring to find out how the
masons shook hands, or what motions they made with their thumbs
or fingers. And he was confident that the public would feel uo such
— Digitized by Google
11
curiosity, nor countenance it in others. Tlie person who had pre­
sented the improper question knew the rule of the committee
was: they knew also that the witness (witlh his impressions upon the
subject) could not answer such a question without forfeiting bis word
and his honor; and they had heard the committee assure him that he
would not be required to answer any such question. To press such
a question, notwithstanding all this, was indecorous both to the com­
mittee and the witness, ana could have no other object than to insult
a respectable witness because he was a mason. Such conduct was
the more reprehensible considering the extreme indulgence which
had been shown by the committee to all those employed in framing
and handing in questions—the whole of which, unless clearly infring­
ing the rule, bad been readily received and put to the witnesses to
whom they were addressed, however unimportant and even frivolous
many of them might appear.
After the committee had adjourned that evening, one of the mem­
bers (Mr. Sprague) mentioned to the ehairmaTthat he had been mis­
taken in stating that the committee had unanimously agreed upon the
rule alluded to; that he never hud so agreed;* and in proof of this,
he repeated the remark he had made respecting the probable con­
nection thfere was between some of the masonic signs and the obliga­
tion, as has already been mentioned. This stand was very unex­
pected to the rest of *the committee, who had until then, supposed
that the committee was proceeding in the performance of their duty
with perfect unanimity. They now concluded that it would be best
hot to proceed further with the masonic witnesses hut to confine
themselves to the examination of other witnesses until the whole of
the committee, (one of them being absent on account of sickness*)
could get together and endeavor, again, to come to a good under­
standing. They knew well that there were certain persons who
stood ready to' take-advantage of the slightest misunderstanding
among the committee and, to seize upon every occasion and make ev­
ery exertion to defeat the object (which was to allay the existing ex­
citements) which the General Assembly bad in view in instituting this
investigation. They reminded their friend and colleague, (Mr.
Sprague) of this palpable fact; and of the necesssity there was that
there should be no disagreement in the committee ; and they assured
him that if he could not coincide in opinion with the rest of the com­
m ittee they would certainly submit to his opinion.
It soon appeared that the committee were under no mistake in sup­
posing that attempts would be made to frustrate the object of the in­
vestigation. The next morning it was publicly announced that in
consequence of the expressions made use of the evening before,
those of the antimaaonic party who had. theretofore attended the
examination would probably take po further part in them, or some­
thing to that effect. It was also intimated that the committee were
partial to the masons and did not examine them so strictly, nor in
the same manner as they had the seceding masoosf; and it was ru-
*Mr. Simmons.
tTha witnesses were sworn in -the usual manner* One ot two of them,
who were called merely to answer some personal charges made against them
Digitized by O ^ C
Biored That a part of the committee had bargained with the masons'
about the manner in whichjb^y should be examined. As soon as
Che committee were all together, (except Mr. Potter who was still
absent,) the difficulty which had arisen was mentioned, and Mr.
Sprague having again stated that he never had agreed to the rule in
question; it was said to him by others of the committee, that, of
course, as he now asserted it, there could be no doubt of the fact he
stated,: But they assured him that the rest of the committee had
really, all along, believed, that there was no difference in opinion
among them, and that he had acquiesced with them in the rule adopt­
ed; and, as an apology for the mistake which it now seemed they had
been under, they mentioned a number of circumstances which very
naturally led to such a mistake. They reminded him that when the
committee had decided upon the mode in which they would proceed,
they, all of them, (himself equally with the rest) requested, or au­
thorized, the chairmmi, to inform the masonic witnesses (who had
requested to be so inrormed) what would be expected of them by the
committee. That the chairman afterwards reported to them all, that
he had informed some of the principal masons of the rule adopted by
the committee with regard to their examination, viz.: that they would
be required to disclose fully, and without reserve? all their masonic
oaths or obligations; but that the committee cared nothing about
their signs or ceremonies, words or tokens, and should ask no ques­
tions about them. And it was here remarked that this communica­
tion to the masons so properly given and sanctioned by the whole of
the committee present—by Mr. Sprague as much as by any of them
—had been made the foundation of a false charge, thatpart of the com­
mittee had bargained with the masons. They further reminded M r/
Sprague that the rule.in question had been repeatedly and publicly
stated at the sittings of the committee, and had been acted upon up
to.tbat time without any appearance of objection to it from any
quarter. But, since it appeared that the committee had been under
a mistake* it was necessary that they should now come to a further
understanding. And in order to meet the suggestion of Mr. Sprague
respecting the probable connection between some of the masonic
signs and the obligations, the following question was framed, vjz.*—
“ Does not a mason, upon entering or leaving a lodge, chapter or en­
campment, make a sign recognizing, or having allusion to, or indicat­
ing the penalty pf the oath taken in his particular degree and appro­
priate to the occasion and to the lodge or masonic body he enters
or leaves?” Mr. Sprague expressed himself satisfied with this and
merely suggested further that, perhaps, it would be as well to put
by preceding witnesses, were sworn to answer such questions as should be put
to them. The manner of swearing them was no restriction upon their exam­
ination ; all questions handed in were put to them. Probably this would
have been the most proper way to have engaged all the witnesses on such
anomalous examinations. Mr. A. Wilkinson himself mentioned that he should
prefer giving his testimony by answering questions. Mr. William Harris af­
ter narrating for some time said he did not know howfar the committee would
expect of himto go or how much they would expect of him or some express­
ion to that effect.
ft
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
IS
one question to each of the masonic wituesses for the purpose of as*
certaining whether he would or would not decline' answering quest­
ions respecting the masonic signs, &c. and that if he declined, no fur­
ther such questions need be put to him. The rest of the committee
cheerfully acquiesced in this. And it was also expressed to be the
understanding of them all, that every member was at full liberty, and
had a right to put any question he might think proper, without feel­
ing any restraint from the opinions of other members. And thus this
conference ended, as all such conferences ought to end, in the per­
fect reunion and harmony of all the members of the committee
throughout the subsequent examinations, and no further attempts
were openly made tor embarrass their proceedings.
When charges of such a character as necessarily to call into con­
flict the bitterest passions of those who make them and those against
whom they are made, are inquired into, it is certain that jeal­
ousies will arise and complaints be made from one quarter or
another. And the stronger and more conclusive the testimony shall
be, in support of the charges, or in refutation of them, the more
certainly will the convicted party impeach the tribunal and complain
of partiality and unfairness: For in that way only can the convicted
party escape condemnation. Of this the committee were fully aware.
But they were resolved, from the beginning, that whatever disposi­
tion to complain might be manifested, there should not, at any rate,
be any cause for complaint. They invited and encouraged commu­
nication and information from whatever source they could be made or
furnished. And they put all questions—not directly infringing tbeir
known rule—handed-in to them, from whatever quarter. And this
intention to put every question which should be handed in, however
unimportant, they so strictly adhered to, that no deposition was clos­
ed until inquiry was made aloud:—if there was any person1present
who wished any further question to be put to the witness; and every
deposition was kept open until all were fully satisfied, and no further
questions were offered and called for.
And finally, before they adjourned to Ncftvport they gave public
notice, that as it had been their intention that every question, by
whomsoever proposed, should be asked and answered, if there was
any one who supposed that any question by him handed in had not
been attended to, and would hand in the same question again, the
witness for whom it had been intended should be again called and
such question put to him, if any one of the committee should believe
‘that any such question had ever before been handed to them, or was
o f any importance. And for this there would be ample opportunity
as the General Assembly were shortly to meet in Providence, where
the members of the committee would all be together at least during
one week.
In short, the almost unlimited indulgence shown by the committee
to all those who took a concern in the exarninatiqp may be seen in
the time which has been consumed, in the mass of questions which
they received from those persons, and put to the witnesses, and in
th e character of many of those questions. And truly, their patience
was frequently tried to the utmost, while obliging themselves to sit
Digitized by tO O ^ tC
and receive question after question, or sheets of questions, from A
B arid C, without allowing themselves to decide whether those ques­
tions were important or frivolous; pertinent or impertinent. But t
the final result has been satisfactory and successful beyond'their ex­
pectation. For they believe they may safely say that all the evi­
dence of any importance and pertinent to the investigation, which
could by any exertions procured, coexists, in this State, has been
procured and is in the possession of the committee.
The masonic witnesses, who were summoned, attended readily,
and,—with two exceptions only,—freely answered all questions they
were required to answer. And the masons also exerted themselves
in procuring some other testimony. And* on the other hand, those
with whom the charges originated, or who were under the responsi­
bility of having industriously kept them in circulation, must of ne­
cessity, feel the strongest personal as well as political interest in
shewing that those charges were not mere fabrications or misrepre­
sentations. And accordingly, that there was no want of zeal, exer­
tion or perseverance on their part was manifested by the number of
witnesses brought forward by them from different parts of the State,
and from Massachusetts, and by their unwearied attendance at the
examinations*
As the depositions in the hands of the committee are numerous,—
fnore than a hundred,—and some of them of great length, taking up
altogether, several hundred folio pages closely written; the commit­
tee will probably be expected to present a summary analysis and view
of their contents from which an opinion may be formed of the scope,
weight and heaviness ol the testimony, and of the results and con­
clusions which may be drawn from it.
The whole testimony may be divided into, three classes as follows,
viz:
1st. That which relates to the forms, terms and contents of the
masonic obligations.
2d. That which goes to ascertain and establish the true construc­
tion, meaning and extent of those obligations as they are understood
by masons.
3d. That which relates to the practices, acts and conduct of ma­
sons and masonic lodges; and to the supposed criminal avowals and
declarations of individual masons.
With respect to the forms or words of the obligations the Mason­
ic witnesses have furnished in writing those which they declare to be
the only true ones used in this State up to the highest degrees here
given. And on the other hand, the antimasons rely upon the author­
ity of two antimasonic books called ‘‘Bernard’s light on masonry*’
and “ Allyn’s Ritual;” which they say contain the real forms. And
the forms in those books are declared to be substantially correct by
several seceding masons. Upon comparing the two sets of forms, it
is found that there are no material differences in those of the two
first degrees; and none we think, are counted upon. In the masters,
or third degree several differences are pointed out; which however
do not appear to be of any importance. The following clause, how­
ever, from Allyn’s forms, is considered as involving something very
Digitized by Google
15
aignificaut and important, viz: ‘‘furthermore do I promise and swear
that ifany part oi this obligation be omitted at this time, I will hold
myself amenable thereto whenever informed.” This clause is not in
the Rhode Island forms, and all the masons here testify that it makes
no part of the oath. One mason testified that be had heard a master
who wanted confidence in his recollections of the oath, introduce
something of the kind by way of precaution, in case he should forget
and omit some part of it. out it does not seem to be of any impor­
tance whether the clause in question is used or not. For it is not
alledged that any part of the obligation is omitted in the forms given
by Allyn. But the contrary. When therefore the oath is adminis­
tered according to AUyn’s form (if that contains the whole, as seced­
ing masons swear that it does,) there is nothing for the words uif any
part of this obligation be omitted at this time,” to attach to: and the
phrase or clause can only be used, (if they are used) by the officia*
ting master, by way of precaution as before mentioned. But leaving
these trifling and immaterial variations, there are in the several forms
of the royal arch mason’s oath some very important differences.
In the form in Bernard’s antimasonic books the candidate is made
to swear that he will espouse the cause of a companion royal arch
mason, so far as to extricate him from any difficulty, uwhether he be
right or wrong” He is also made to swear—in the s^me form—that
he will keep the secrets of a companion &c. &c. “murder and treason
not e x c e p te d It is very clear that to take such obligations as these
would be highly criminal: and if it were true that such are taken; it
would go fju* to jostify the worst accusations brought against masons.
We have therefore thought it proper to look strictly into the evi?
dence in support of this charge. And we think, that the evidence
of it ought to be strong and conclusive. Because,—putting aside for
the present, the uniform testimony of all the masonic witnesses,—
the presumption is strong that respectable and upright men would
not be guilty of taking criminal oaths, which we know we would not
take ourselves. There is also a fair presumption against the strict
accuracy and impartiality of the books referred to. They, both of
them, commence in a style of rank personal abuse, and are bitter,
coarse and violent in the extreme. They were prepared and brought
out at a time when there was a great demand for such works. And
they bear every mark of having been manufactured to suit the mar­
ket.
Infinite pains were taken in them to exhibit masonry and masons
in the most hideous and disgusting shapes. It was a period when
there was a raging appetite for the marvellous and the monstroiis.
When alarms had been excited and suspicions awakened which
could swallow any thing. On such occasions there are always men
enough to profit by the ferment. And accordingly innumerable
tracts, pamphlets, almanacks, and books were poured out and spread
over the face of the country, filled, most of them with'painted fig­
ures, prints and pictures, as if designed for children; pictures of men
and women, some hanging dead, by the neck; some with their hands,
and some with their heads cut off and held by the hair in the grasp
of the murderer standing by; pictures"of swords,^spears and daggers;
16
coffins, graves and human skulls with cross bones, and various other
such hideous devices; all designed to impress upon weak minds, and
upon those who are but of the way,or have not the means of obtaining
better information, the belief, that these ar& true representations of
scenes acted in the masonic lodges; that these lodges—which, a* we
are informed, contain nothing that all the world may not see—are,
like the den of the cyclop’
s, paved with human skulls and bones; and
that our friends and neighbors when they enter a lodge turn cannibals,
and become plotters and approvers of murder, and conspirators
against the welfare and safety of all the rest of the .community.
Such books we think, ought not to be received when the charac­
ters of any of .our fellow citizens are implicated. We should not,
ourselves, expect to be so dealt with. It ought to be observed also
that' both Bernard and Allyn are New York men, and treat—we un­
derstood—of New York masonry, and of the forms of oaths there
administered; which—whatever they may be—
^are no proof of the
forms used in Rhode Island. For although it is asserted that mason­
ry is the same all over the world, yet it will not do to pretend that
the oaths or obligations are the same in different places either in form
or substance. They are substantially' different evert in Bernard and
Allyn’s books; although they both wrote about the same New York
ceremonies, and one of them had the other to consult and to copv
from. Thus Allyn has this clause in his form of the royal arch ma­
son’s oath, viz: u l furthermore promise and swear that I will employ
a companipn royal arch mason, in preference to any other person of
equal qualifications!” But not a word of this is in the form given by
Bernard.
On the other hand Bernard has this clause.in bis form of the same
oath, viz: that I will promote a companion royal arch mason's polit­
icalpreferment in preference to another of equal qualifications/” One would
think that there was some substance in an oath like this, yet there is
not a word of it in the form Allyn professes to give of the same New
York oaths. And, Bernard himself says, that, uthis clause is some­
times made a distinct point in the obligation in the following form,
viz: furthermore do I promise and swear, that I will vote for a compan­
ion royal arch mason before any other of equal qualifications, and
in some chapters”—he continues—uboth are leji out of the obligation
Yet these two writers;—differing, totally, as they do as to the form
and substance of the same oath;—each of them tells us that his book
contains the only true and correct form of the royal arch mason’s
oath as administered in New York.
For still stronger proof,—should any further proof be thought nec­
essary,—that the masonic oaths vary materially and in substance in
different places, we refer to the depositions of Doct. B. W. Case,
Moses Thacher and Pliny Merrick,—seceding masons—which point
*Tbe discrepancy between these two book makers in this particular—one
of them, Bernard for instance, inserting highly obnoxious and criminal clauses
which Allyn leaves out, on his part inserting different clauses equally criminal
which Bernard leaves out—gives cause to suspect that each of them dressed
out the obligations insuch manner, as he thought would render them most of­
fensive. O r\r\ci\o
Digitized by V j O O y i C
17
out additions or omissions of more importance in point of substance,
than all the rest contained in'Bernard or AUyh’s fdrms. ‘ And if ap­
pears also from the masonic depositions, that the oaths are not
same in all respects, even in different parts of this small State. It is*
palpable therefore that the forms m the oaths, as administered-in
New York or elsewhere, even if there was any proof Wbat those'
forms are—drhich* as we have just seen, there is oot, but the eOtttra-'
ry—would be no evidence of the forms used in RhodeTslaftd. ^
Tire same'remark applies to the deposition of Pliny Merrifck, which'
was written out by him and sworn to in Worcester,'at the request of
one of the members of this committee.* But although his testiihony
proves nothing respecting the oaths administered in Rhode*IsUnd*'
yet on other accounts it deserves some notice. *He is the only wit­
ness who directly swears that the criminal clauses contained jo Ber*r
nard’s forms, as before cited, are ever administered any where,1ae
parts of the royal arch mason’s oath. > - ,
It strikes this committee that any man who would take;on oath to
espouse the cause of a brother royal arch mason, &c. Sco*‘ whetherheU
right or tarongf,” and to keep his secrets, 4
1ward#'and treasonnotexcepb
—that any man who would be guilty of such a crime, would ho
oo more entitled to.credit for any thing he should afterwards swear
to, than if he had. been conviciedpf a felony. Air. Merrick seems
himself to have a consciousness of this. And throughout his lfeng
deposition ; while he labors to fasten the odious charge upon His
brethren; be studiously avoids acknowledging that any such oblige
tiops were ever administered to himself. This is a stfikiug feathre^
in his deposition. He says that he does rw
rfdistinctly rmHeti thcotfhf
and obligations of the chnfiler degrees, including the royal orchiMtadmin*
%4ered to him. ' Aqd be gives bis reasons for it, and continues tbtWr+r.
“Besides thtSy when the nryalarch oath was administered to m I umetpnf
much overcome both by the,previousfatigue I had undergone and the notyb*
and character qf the obligation; atid.becomng faint was removedfram<the
room before fa adoiinislmtlpn wasfinished* On my recovery Iretyrixd to
theroom oj the chapter and passed through the remaining cercmfuics^ htU ^
hav-e.norecollectionihid ih&rp^ahiing part of the oath was'administered^ \[i
After hiving .thus disembarrassed biipself, he proceeds very freely,
and expresses ids.belief thsrkthe chapterpathsaregiv.cn in Bernard’s
book substantially as belcurniy—ngt, as he -and heard them atU
roioiftercd. Ho aUlftfity recollects that the candidate swears that he wilt
apatite iha cause of ajfQg/fi arch ocnipamc^ $c. <£*. “whether he be tigfa
or prong.')1 tie believes that the c^vp’
fffdate swears to kceu the secret*
oj£^^qiuahion, &c, ’&c.'£
£m w ^r trec^cp n<
4 '^Former*
ly Egliaif no dotibf on th-s point, Imt bis conversation vyith^tu^ny
masons respecting: 1: have Teaimn to doubt, lie has taxed his Verne-
ty to the Ww:? ana can now only say, that while he does not feel certain, he
ytt believes that tfo fArifi^m w kr.and treason not exccpteify here tisedy fkl
Afs beliefis fmrtde*Ton 'd' darkly of circumstance distinct frem aprecise
i%zolkction of thefact! ~ '
This part of-t^e .deposition is not happily expressed., .It is c%
Iqu-
#Mr. Sprague. '
G
Digitized by Google
IS
Uted to make an impression that Mr. Pliny Merrick was desirous that
his reader should believe his masonic brethren to be guilty of a mon­
strous crime, without his takiog upon himself the responsibility of
asserting the fact.
In another part of his deposition this witnesssays tigthe was, oneyear,
elected to the office ofhigh priest, which is the highest office in the chapter;
and accepted the appointment. That hispredecessor Dost. Chapin, then
taught him all the forms, ceremonies, oaths and obligations oftheseveral
degrees ofthe chapter and that he committed them to memory. “ He had
also heard Doct. Chapin repeat the qaths in the chapter while high
E
riest, and on one occasiou he had beard a grand lecturer employed
y the grand lodge of Massachusetts repeat the royal arch mason’s
oath;—and thus qualified, he himselfduring half a year, officiated in
the chapter in bis office of high priest, and discharged all the duties
of it.”
Upon reading this the inquiry forcibly presents itself to the mind,
how it should happen that by far the most important part of the oath
os given by Bernard, should make or leave so light an impression
upon Mr. Merrick’s mind, that in a very few years he should be in
doubt whether it did or did not make a part of the oath which he bad
been so perfectly familiar with; which he most probably had himself
administered; bad often heard repeated and committed to memory;
while be should distinctly recollect, as he says, all other parts of much
less importance. He says that he once knew a candidate to heai*
tate at the words <
cwhether he be right or wrong” and ask whether it
aoM be so? But he does not recollect whether the same candidate
boggled at the words “murder and treason not excepted.” It is also to
be remarked with respect to this witness, that if ne really was quite
ignorant whether he took the criminal oaths or not; yet when he
Hadmade a study ofthem, and acquired a perfect and familiar knowl­
edge of them, the plea of ignorance will no longer avail.
But it is for others to decide whether it would be more charitable
towards this royaf arch mason, to believe, that since he has become
n seceder and a political antimason,—as *it appears he has,—be has
been led by the strength of his party prejudices and interests to mis^
represent the masonic oaths, or that, while he was an adhering ma­
son, he was guilty of practising upon, and of administering, or coun­
tenancing the administering to others, of oaths which he knew to be
in the highest degree criminal. In what this Witness says about a
grand lecturer appointed by the grand lodge; we are inclined to think
ne must be mistaken; since it is abundantly proved that.there is no
connection between'a grand lodge and any ot the chapter degrees.*
The committee do not consider it to be within their province to
express any opinion respecting the oaths as administered in Massa­
chusetts. They have no evidence before them to enable them to
judge. The solitary deposition of Mr. Merrick speaks of a local
practice: What his brethren of the chapter might have to say upon
•H# may have done what Mr. Merrick tajs he did, but not in his charac­
ter of lecturer ofthe grandlodge.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
19
the subject, if called upon, we cannot tell.* But it is impossible te
believe that their testimony would have any resemblance to his. We
will only notice further that many hundreds of respectable men and
masons in Massachusetts have solemnly declared that they have nev­
er administered or taken obligations of any such character.
As there is no evidence that the obnoxious and criminal clauses in
the forms of oaths contained in the antimasonic books, ever made any
part of the forms used in Rhode Island, or indeed, any where else; the
committee do not think it worth while to lose time in stating the
testimony to the contrary. But the testimony of the Rev. Moses
Thatcher of Wrentham, Massachusetts,—a seceding mason,—ought
not to be overlooked. He had taken in Providence seven degrees
in masonry, including the degree of royal arch mason. When asked
if be swore to assist a companion royal arch mason, whether he be
right or wrong,” and to keep his secrets “murder and treasonnet exeept-
sd;” he swore positively that those clauses wese not in the oaths ad*
ministered to him. The words “without exception,” in relation to
revealing the secrets, bethought were not in his oath, and he did not
recoUect apromise to employ a companion, $c. in preference to another per­
son. But notwithstanding he had thus falsified the forms of oaths in
Bernard and Allyn in nearly all that is of any importance in thoso
oaths, he yet swore that the obligation in the ro>al arch degree is
substantially the same as that administered to him.
This witness manifests the same disposition that is so apparent hi
the deposition of Mr. Merrick, to make the oath bear upon others as
heavily as he possibly could, consistently with his own exculpation.
Thu >he says ne is confident that he swore to assist a royal arch ma­
son when in any difficulty, &c.; and he does not recollect that any
kind of difficulty was excepted;—clearly leaving it to be inferred that
the brother mason is to be assisted “ whether be be right or wrong.”
Although, when answering for himself he swore that those words
were not administered to him nor “any words equivalent to them.”
The committee have before them a sheet banded in by antim&sons
showing the differences between the Rhode Island forms of the oaths
and those contained in the antimasonic books. We have fexamined
them all and do not find any material differences other than those al- 1
ready mentioned. The committee finding no proof to the contrary,
must consider the manuscript forms banded to them by the masons
who best know what oaths they administer orJake, to be—with such
Immaterial variations as are made in different parts of the State,—the
real forms of the masonic oaths administered in this State.
. The committee have attentively examined those forms of oaths
Sod they can find nothing in the promises which masons make to one
another as contained in them, to which a charge of criminality can
attach. And indeed, as we believe,' the promissory parts of the
obligations are not so much relied upon as furnishing proof of the
criminality of masonry.
It is the penal clause of the obligation, as the committee under­
stand it, that is considered to be highly criminal in itself; and is made
. . . . t
•Mr. Merrick however does inform O
s that those of hisbrethren with whom
he had conversed, disagreed with him.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
so
the fosis of all'tb^e .charges against masonry nod maapDS. It ischajrg*
by this penal clause., they subject .tfjemselves
She ^blQmte^control of a secret masonic power, and bind them-.
t0? an(*incompatible with, all their civil, re-
l&IB <£jgpraf obligations. The evidence offered in support of
the ch arg e^ 1st, The terms or language of the penal clause itself:
Recognition of the penalties, in the masonic signs and syinr
0 ^ st&
iSd^(i, T
The testimony of witnesses.* , . :
Report, in part, of committee on Masonry, Ate. House of Representatives, January $0,
1882. Read, recerved and laid on the table. \YM. S. PATTEN, Clerk-^
*
' * ' 1st. The terms or language of the penal clause'considered.
■ What was the character of the masonic fraternity at the remote
period when their obligations were framed; or how thosp obligations
Were, at that day, understood and received by masons; cannot, now,
Belttaown. But it is evident that those antiqne forms and obligations,
th&ogh still continued to be used, must from period to period, and
aihang various people, in different countries, make different impres­
sions, and receive different construction, conforming to the progres­
sive state of society and civilization.
•It & to be noticed that the penal or binding clause of the masoriic
obligation, is, in substance, the same from the first to the last degree
of masonry. It is an invocation of death, varied in forms only *
throughout all the decrees in succession:—we mean all the degrees
given in this State. When therefore the meaning and true construc­
tion one of those penal clauses is rightly understood there is ‘
noth­
ing nfrore to bo learnt respecting any of them.
The style of the penal clause of a master mason’s obligation ts as
foHows^viz: “Binding myself under no less penalty than that of hav­
ing thy Body severed in two” &c. &c. We avoid taking any more of
the clause than is necessary; because the language, if not criminal, is
certainly improper and offensive.
The meaning conveyed by the Words just recited, or any similar
Words, must depend upon the occasion on which they are used. If
each a penalty was prescribed in any existing lavr for a specified of­
fence, fhe words would plainly have reference to the law, and would
be construed in the same manner as the words “ And this affirmation
I make and give upon the peril of the penalty of perjury;” which are
used by some witnesses and some public officers when taking their
engagements tis required by law. But should the same Words “ Bind- .
ihg myself under no less a penalty” &c., be used before any mere as­
sociation or company of individuals, it would be impossible (one
think) to consider them in any other light than as a strong
<and certainly an improper) invocation, or imprecation, intended to
increase the solemnity of the engagements entered into, and to.make
• deeper impression of the sincerity of the person entering into them;
Mid Of bis fi$ed determination to adhere to them.
Before the words in question can be understood in the horrid sense
in which some persons appear to be very anxious to have them un-
#- ■
* * *
*The preceding part of (be report was made to the General' Assrnddj* ftt
their-Jhnaary session, A. D. 1832, as per certificate- of the Clerk.
Digitized by Google
demood, ik^usibe'abown, let. That tb* person usiogt them? w it
ously recognizes and acknowledges in the.lodge he enters, a* unlim*
ited power and jurisdictipn over his life and actions; and 24. Thai
the lodge seriously claims and asserts such power and jurisdiction.
With respect to the candidate’s understanding of the matter, we are
informed that until the masons very recently made public all the ma­
sonic obligations administered in this stale, he (the candidate) did
not know a word of the obligations be took until he came to rehearse
them after the master. It would be absurd therefore to charge hitn
with intending to recognize or acknowledge a power and jurisdiction
in the lodge, which, he could have no idea that the lodge pretended
to claim. • .
But he did know, from the previous address which it is proved by
an the witnesses, is made to every candidate before be takes the oib*
ligations, that those obligation were not to be construed or uottar^
stood as containing any thing contrary to religion, morality, or the
laws of his country. He knew from the books of masonic comlitMr
tions and masonic monitors, which wereJn general circulation, that itK
stead of his being required tq take any obligations incompatible with
his other duties, all those duties were (as he was taught to believe,)
inculcated and cherished iu the institution he was about to enter.
And lastly in the by-laws of the lodge, which were freely opened to
him, he saw nothing but wholesome regulations enforced by moder­
ate penalties. The power of expulsion being the highest- po?wer
which the lodge claimed to possess or exercise in any case; eyen in
the case of a disclosure of its masonic proceedings. All this inform^
ation every candidate ought to be supposed to possess because no
man of ordinary prudence or understanding would join a lodge until
he had possessed himself of it. At any rate many are possessed of
all this previous knowledge, and the obligations are not designed to
be differently construed in different cafes.
Such being the circumstances under which; the.obligations have
been administered, it is evident that the candidate whp took them,
cotil'd only understand and construe}them according to the previous
instructions and insight into the principles and objects of masonry,
which masonry itself had imparted to him. Nor could the lodge at­
tempt to put any different construction upon them. For it cannot
surely be believed that they would dare to tell the new member that
they claimed jurisdiction and power over his life and actions, and that
they had so framed the obligations he had just taken, as ta nitjce him
acknbwledge and recognize that power without knowing it.* That
all that had been held out to him, in their books of constitution, by­
laws, monitors and addresses was a mere deception contrived to lead
, him into the snare; and that he must thenceforth consider, his duties
and obligations to his family, to, society and to bis country, all, as
secondary and subordinate 10 the obligations he had laid himself under
to them, the lodge.
' The idea is preposterous, and equally so, would-bp the supposition
* It ia ptoved and acknowledged that every mason is instructed, in the
•hargt**r4^ctures, or both, not to solicitor urge any person to become a ma­
son; an(bast to recommend any one whose character is not good.
Digitized by Google
that any ttmtt, with a fcpurk of regard for character or principle,
would, Knowingly enter a lodge upon such base and criminal condi­
tions; ot would continue in it for a single moment after detection.
And on rfbe'otbe? hand, is it not wholly incredible that any body of
men, whether masons or others, would undertake to assume, or pre­
tend to possess powers, the very claim to which would be criminal
and punishable; and the exercise of which would subject them to
Ytre punishment of death, in the most ignominious form, as the vilest
of criminals! Suspicion is never so strong as whenit gets entirely
free from facts ana reason; and weak or suspicious minds are never
easy until they do get clear of them. It is then that jhe grossest ab­
surdities produce the strongest convictions. But in most minds sus­
picion and credulity have their limits; and there are few men we think,
whom the arts of imposters can bring to believe that a numerous and
promiscuous collection of men, amounting in some lodges, to seve­
ral hundred; and comprehending men of various descriptions, char­
acters, habits, pursuits, interests and stations in life; many of them
having little or no acquaintance with each other, and no intercourse
in business or society;, some of them perhaps at variance and open
hostility with each other as is often the case; some of them men of
high standing in the community for their integrity and worth; and
some of them men of loose, or light, or profligate characters; in
whom no manner of confidence can be placed; that all these can ex­
ist together as a secret, confidential, criminal combination, claiming,
*nd, without any possible interest, object or inducement, mutually
conceding and acknowledging jurisdiction and power over each oth­
ers lives and actions; each one, with unlimited confidence, trusting
sind placing his personal safety, his character, and perhaps his life in
she hands and power of all ana every one of the others, without dis­
tinction; the lowest and worst as well as the best: and enabling them
ill, at any moment, to bring him into danger, disgrace and ruin. ,
The idea of a secret execution of their criminal purposes would be
preposterous, even were we to consider them as entertaining crimin­
al purposes more than any other bodies of men, and without auy as­
signable motive. The chance of concealment and escape is the reli­
ance only of practised criminals, who care comparatively little about
detection. le t the most hardened ruffian’s arm is oftener pabie4 by
the terror of detection and punishment, than it is nerved by iba su­
rest hope and prospect of eseape, and the strongest temptation to
plunder or revenge. When he does strike, he takes his victim una­
wares, and takes care to leave nothing which can possibly lead to
detection: at least so he intends and believes. Yet his secret, though
confined to his own single bosom, often gnaws its way out to the
light, and is betrayed by his own uncontrolable terrors. But if the
masonic societies were as bad as the assassins, (a3 it seems there are
some who are bad enough to wish they should be thought to be) their
situation, in respect to security from detection, would be far worse
than bis. For if there was in reality any such terrible tribunal as is
pretended, or any such penalty of death, which they claimed the
power of inflicting, any mason who should incur that penalty, by
violating bis masonic obligations, would, of course, be the first to
• %i
Digitized by Google
know his offence against masonry, and his danger, and would have
the means of safety fully in his own hands. He would have nothing
to do but to make his complaint before the magistrates, against his
enemies, and expose their criminal pretentions and threats, and they
would find themselves in shackles before they could raise a finger
against him. Or if they were not proceeded against to this extremi­
ty, their alarm in consequence of such a complaint and exposure,
their fear for their own safety, and dread of detection and punish­
ment, would be an effectual security to him against any future at­
tempt, on their part, to molest him. In short, they would be much
more in his power than he would be in theirs. Such, it appears to
us, is the plain conclusion to which we must necessarily arrive if wo
reason on the subject.
And is there any thing inconsistent with this conclusion even in the
case of Morgan? If the lodge or chapter, to which he belonged,
acted as a secret tribunal, claiming power over the lives of the mem­
bers, and determined to execute vengeance upon any who should be­
tray the secrets of the institution; would not Morgan, being a masonr
and knowing that the very existence of the institution depended upon
the preservation of its mysteries, which he was about to disclose;
and that such an act would certainly excite their wrath to the utmost
and bring down their bitterest vengeance upon his head; would he
not, thus apprized of his danger and of his enemy, would he not have
guarded and protected himself against them? And would it not have
been amply and perfectly in his power to have done so? There
would have been a criminality sufficiently definable, and a criminal
party easily pointed out and reached. There would have been noth­
ing for him to have done but to have gone before the proper magis­
trates, and have made a regular complaint, and the criminal parties
could not possibly have escaped. They would probably have been
detected on their own examinations.
But there would, besides, have been the direct testimony of at
least two witnesses against them; Morgan the complainant and Miller
his partner in the work, who was also a mason. And in all probabil­
ity there would have been other seceding masons, who might have
been produced as witnesses. At all events enough must have ap­
peared to have shown the necessity of requiring the persons accused
to have given bond for the peace. To alledge that the magistrates
in the neighborhood were all masons or under the influence of the
masons, would not, if the fact was true, be a sufficent answer. For
it would so much the more clearly have shown to Morgan the immin­
ent danger he was in, and the necessity of his applying to magis­
trates of a higher and more extensive jurisdiction. But, even if the
neighboring magistrates had been so corrupt, which, it would be go­
ing great lengths, for us to presume, as to have refused to have at­
tended to his complaint; his having formally and publicly made such
a complaint, and tendered sufficient testimony to sustain it, woulcj
have fully answered his purpose, so far *as his own personal saftey
and rights were concerned. For no injury could have been done to
him afterwards without fastening the accusations upon those against
whom he had made them. Ancfin this tho magistrates themselves
Digitized by Google
S4
wtmldbavfrbfeen involv6d, aod, of course, would have been deeply
interested m hie safety. 1
• It i» certain therefore that in the ease mippoafcd; all the means 6f
safety would have been perfectly at Morgan’s command. And it is
past belief that he would have rushed upon his fate, and have made
no use of those means* It is therefore but a fair inference, that, no
such seprct tribunal, and no such assumed power over life existed;
since, if they bad existed, they must have been'known to him, and
he would have protected-himself against them. 4
So far from doing
this, it does not appear that he felt himself under any greater appre­
hensions than any other individual, would naturally have felt, who
was about to do an act which he knew would exasperate a large and
influential class of individuals. This, Morgan, and every* body else
who was acquainted with his intended disclosures, knew would be
the effect of his publication; and no doubt he calculated upon it.
But, it seems, he chose to encounter the anger and threats of the of*
fended persons rather than forego his prospects of proflt from the
adventure he had engaged in.* He therefore went on with his
work until hjs progress was arrested by the hands of the ruffians who
bad openly beset and threatened him from the beginning.f
, #lVe have not heard it alleged that Morgan had any other motive for his
publication than that of reaping a pecuniary profit from the disclosure of the
masonic mysteries which had been confided to him, as a mason, by his breth­
ren. It appears by a narrative in Bernard’s book, said to have been prepar­
ed brider the inspection of a number of antimasonic committees, and by a re-
h&HW a committee to the aniinasonic lonvenlion at Philadelphia in 1830, (hat
MWiw'llbrh in Culpepper County, Va. and was by trade a brick and stone
nvaftfci. He was afterwards a merchant in Richmond: and u it is said (con­
tinues the last mentioned report) that he was a captain in a militia regiment,
and was present at the battle of New Organs in Jan. IBIS;” ' He next
commenced the business of a brewer in Upper Canada. Being tb'eref burnif**
oijtt gpdr reduced io poverty, he went to Rochester in N. Y. and again took
a masop; but an indamation of the eyes soqri afterwards imcapac*
far labor. From Rochester he went to Qatayia, and there undef-r
*compilation and publication of hjs hook, in company, with one,
sia nrinter and freemason. Afterwards one Johns, having offered tp
rwliat jmojiey might be wanted, was taken into the concern, and was to
he profits. But Johns, (it is’said in the reports referred to^jpipe^
and Miller only for*the purpose ofdefeating the publication.
**FFtoirifthe same antimasonic*narratire it appears, that trhfiorigh thereover©
IftsfnsideraWe number actually engaged in the' abduction of Morgan, and ma­
ny Weae acquainted with it, yet in all profoaHIfity there werfc tfht very few
whotkad any hand in the murder, or any knowledge of it, Gt who wouHHiarr*
had fcny concern In it bad*the design'been known to them. The original plan,
(mgnggeata enough to be sure) was to confine biin in Canada, where He waa
c%rfipd. But the persons engaged for that purpose pot being prepare
I anr^ probahty shrinking from thq danger, he was brought
American side and conned in a magazine, where fyc remained
daVs at least. Jtis stated'that a consultation as to ttio mcde/>f
i^psing rif him was beld on the uiyht of the 14ih of S-pt- 18*6, by, seven
fer^(S>s7who determined to east him into the river. “ After limy had started
carry that determination into effect,” says the report just inerttioned, “one
qflke company discovered a reluctance to go such lengths, which encouraged
\
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
Ia forming a rational opinion upon this subject of the masonic pen
aides, some light may be obtained from the other clauses of the ob*
ligations. In the penal part of the master mason's obligation, the
candidate binds himself not to violate anypart o( that obligation. But
there are many parts of it which are'comparatively unimportant.
F o r instance, the following, according to Allyn, are among'the prom­
ises made by the candidate, viz: 1st. That be will not wrong the
lodge, nor a brother of that degree, to the value of one cent, &c.
2d. That be will not speak evil of a brother roaster mason, &c. 3d.
T hat he will not be at the initiating of a young man in nonage, an old
man in dotage, an hermaphrodite, or a woman, &c. According then
to the construction which some antimasons insist upon putting upon
*he penal clause, should a master mason fail to keep any of those
promises, the lodge would have unconditional power, by his own sti­
pulation and consent, to have “ his bocfy severed in two in the centre*
and divided to the north and south, his bowels burnt to ashes in the
midst, and scattered by the four winds of heaven, that there might
not the least remembrance remain among men or masons t>T so vile
and perjured a wretch, as he had become by having wrongAd a lodge
or a brother to the value of one cent; or having spoken evil of him;
or, (as the case might be) of having been present at the initiating of
a man under 31 years -of age, o ra woman, or an hermaphrodite*
And, in the last case, that of initiating an hermaphrodite, &c. &c. the
whole lodge then present being equally guilty of that unpardonable
crime, the tribunal must pass sentence of death upon itself, and exe­
cute the sentence by committing suicide. And, after all, if this sage
construction of the penal clause was to be adopted, what would it
amount to? It would only bind the member to beep his several pre­
ceding promises, all plainly defined and expressed; and which, if they
contained any thing in themselves objectionable, are rendered per-
olhtrs to remonstrate, and the project was abandoned jor that time. On the
ni^ht of the 15th, a similar consultation was held betweenfour persons, as to
the disposition of Morgan but nothing was decided upon. A t this consulta­
tion colonel King became offended with Mr. Giddins, for expressing a desire
that Morgan should be released; and Giddins surrendered to him the key of
the magazine." Thus we see how difficult it is even for-the most daring and
flagitious men to prepare their minds for the commission of murder. These
persons had already, before they took the life of Morgan, gone so far, that
they had reduced themselves to the direful necessity of deciding between his
late and their own. And yet, although thus tempted onward to the final
catastrophe, and still, no doubt filled with revengeful feelings towards
the victim, they repeatedly recoiled from the horrid deed. Three, out of
the seven who met- on the first night, shrunk from the commission of the
crime; and some of them remonstrated against it; and one of the remaining
four who met the second night even, expressed a wish that Morgan should be
released; and from what passed between him (Giddins) and the miscreant
King, it is probable that but for the latter, the deed would not have been
done. At any rate, there is reason to*believe and hope, that not more than
three or four persons were actually concerned in the murder. And by them
it was perpetrated because they were murderers in nature and in character,
and would have done the same deed on any other occasion, and in any other
cause in which the same baneful passions should have been excited to the same
excess. D
Digitized by GQOgle
fectly .harmless by the qualifications, ..and explanations, and coadi-
tions, under which they are taken. And, beyond this, the lodge
would not have the slightest power of control over him, even upon
the supposed construction.
There is one curious piece of documentary evidence, proving the
correctness and truth ot the constructions and explanations, given
by masons, of their masonic obligations, which has been inadvertently
furnished by those who now insist upon a totally different under­
standing oi those obligations; such an one as would render them
highly criminal. In the published proceedings of an antimasonic as­
semblage, held in Boston in May last, we find the following entry,
viz: “ On motion of B. F. Hallett, Esq. of R. I. it was resolved thaf
Messrs. Hallett, Whalley and Pike, of Suffolk, be a committee to '
examine a pamphlet herewith presented, believed to have been de- 1
signed and published in cypher, by masons, as a guide for roasters of
lodges,” &c. &c. And shortly afterwards, among the same proceed­
ings, is to be found the report oT that committee* More than one
half of that report is occupied in establishing the fact that the said
pamphlet in cypher is a genuine masonic work, and “contains original
masonry, in the three first degrees as administered in the JVeto England
lodges.” This fact they pronounce to be conclusively substantiated
by such kind of evidence as that on which “ rests,” to use their own
language, “the proofof the origin of the most celebrated works ofantimnty,
and, in a great degree, the authority of the scriptures themsebes.” They
therefore, “ by way of distinction,” they say, designate this book by
the title of “ T he Mason’s own book.” In another part of the re­
port they say, “ we have also satisfactory evidence of the fact, that
another copy of this work is in the possession of an adhering mason
in Newport, R. I.” It happens that this last mentioned copy is now
in possession of this committee; and has been identified by the testi­
mony of one of the witnesses, (Doct. B. W. Case,) who had been in
possession of both the copies; that which was carried to Boston,
as well as this. Dr. Case obtained this book from Capt. Howland,
a mason, and afterwards loaned it to the chairman of this committee, |
whom he also favored with a key or translation of a considerable por-
lion of it, with which, for a clue, the rest is easily decypher ed. The
committee before mentioned, after assuring the Boston assembly that
“ the information developed is doubtless highly important,” conclude
as follows, viz: “Annexed to this report, is a correct translation of
the three first lectures comprised in the pamphlet under considera- 1
tion, all which is submitted for the disposition of the convention.” I
But it seems that, that convention did not think proper to make any
other dispostion of the highly important translation, than to suppress
it; for it is not to be found among the published proceedings of that
body; and we do not understand that it ever has been made public.
The reason of this attempted concealment and suppression of that
important document is now obvious. It appears that the oaths given
in that book in cypher, are the same as those proved to be used by
masons in Rhode Island; almost word for word the same as those
used in Newport; and wholly falsifying the forms contained in Ber­
nard and Allyn’s books, so far as they differ from the Bbode Island
Digitized by Google
forms; not one of the obnoxious clauses Introduced in those books
being found in “ The mason1
#own book.”
But we refer now to this book in cypher for another purpose. Tt
contains the lectures for the three first degrees; in which lectures
the masonic signs and ceremonies are taugnt and explained. The
lecturing is carried on bpr questions and answers between the master,
or lecturer, and the senior warden,—we understand—or some officer
of the lodge. In the very first page of the first lecture, we find the
following questions and answers, viz: “ Q. What makes you a mason?
A. My obligation. Q. How shall I know you to be a mason? A.
By a certain sign, token, word, and the perfect points of my initita~
tion. Q What are signs? A. Eight angles, horizontal and perpen­
dicular. Q. Please to give me the sign of an entered apprentice.”
The mason rises and gives the sign. Q. Has that any allusion? “A.
It has, to the penalty of my oblgation, that I would rather have my
throat cut across from ear to ear than to reveal the secrects of free­
masonry unlawfully.”
Here we find the identical construction and explanation of the ma-
sonic penalties which have uniformly been given by the masons
themselves,—who, in further explanation, say uthat a mason, like a
Christian, promises to be faithful even unto death,” but thereby gives
no jurisdiction or power over his life, or actions to any tribunal
whatever. And that this, with masons, is the true understanding of
the masonic penaltjps, is now, we find, proved beyond dispute, by
this book in cypher; which, according to the committee which pre­
sented it to the Boston antimasonic assembly before mentioned—was
designed “ as a guide for masters of lodges,” and was found,—anoth­
er copy of it,—among the papers of a deceased adhering mason, a
citizen of Providence, “ several years,—as that committee say,—be­
fore the abduction of William Morgan, and of course before antima-*
sonryhad an existence.”'
And the same explanation of the sense of the penal clause is hon­
estly given by Doct. B. W. Case; who, if we are rightly informed
has better reasons for being hostile to masons than any other man in
the State. He refers to Bernard and Allyn’s books for the history
of Hiram AbifF, which,—according io them,—is shortly this, viz. r
That Hiram was the grand master mason,—workman,—at the build­
ing of Solomon’s temple, and possessed the mysteries of the trade in
the highest decree. That, when the temple was nearly completed,
some of the fellow crafts,—under workmen,—conspired to extort
the secrets from Hiram, “that they might pass,” says Bernard, “ as
masters in other countries, and receive higher wages.” They way­
laid Hiram and demanded the secrets ; he refused to give them and
persisted in his refusal, and they murdered him. Thus Hiram Abiff
was murdered by ruffians for keeping the secrets from them, and not
by masons for violating hfe obligations by revealing them. After tha
history is gone through, “the master” says Doct. Case; and so say
in substance, Bernard and Allyn, “addresses the, candidate, and
tells him he now represents, not only one of the greatest of men, but
the greatest mason we have any account of; viz.: our grand master
Hiram, whose tragical death is thus related,” &c. as above. Doct.
27
Digitized by Google .
Case then proceeds: “ He,1
9the candidate, “ is then impifemd in the
strongest manner by the master TftAt he must imitate H iham and lose
lit s life rather than reteal any of the secrets of masonry.9
1
2d. Evidence ofthe meaning of the masonicpenalties to be derived from the
masonic signsand symbols, fyc.
It appears that there are certain masonic signs, &c« appropriate to
the different degrees in masonry by which those degrees are distin­
guished one from another; ai\d that those signs, &c. have allusion to
the penalties of the obligations of the respective degrees. And what
that allusion is and how understood by masons is, as we have al­
ready seen and fully explained and shown in the masonic lectures
contained in the books in Cypher, where, the question being asked;.
the atoswer is, that the sign 01 the degree has allusion to the penalty
of the obligation, viz. : that he, the mason, had rather suffer so and so
than to violate his obligations. The same explanation, of course, ap­
plies equally to the masonic symbols, &c.; for it is evident that at)
masonic signs, ceremonies, symbols or emblems, which respectively
have allusion to the penalties of the different masonic obligations
must necessarily be understood in connection with those obligations
aud in the same manner as they are understood. For instance; the
emblematical representation of a tall steeple with the figure of a man’s
head on the top of it, has allusion to the penalty of the knight tem­
plar’s obligation, viz.: “ that he bad rather hajre his head placed
upon the top of the tallest steeple in Christendom than to violate
his obligations.
Thus it appears that the evidence to be derived from the masonic
signs, symbols and ceremonies, is confirmatory of the explanation
which masons give of the masonic obligations .
3d. The meaning of the masonic penalties and obligations according td the
testimony of witnesses.
Whether the obnoxious and criminal clauses found in the forms of
oaths in the New York antimasonic books, were inserted to serve
the purposes of corrupt politicians in that State, or are really used
in their lodgqs or chapters, we have not the means of ascertaining.
But we have seen that the obligations taken by masous in this State
are wholly free from those criminal clauses, and of this fact, the ev­
idence would be satisfactory and conclusive even without the testi­
mony of the masonic witnesses. It-is verified, indeed, even by the
testimony of several of the most respectable of the seceding masons,
so far as their information went; particularly by Anson Potter, and
John Brown; the last of East Greenwich, and one of the signers of
the antimasonic address published in September last. Those, then,
and no others are the obligations, the meaning of which, as under­
stood by masons, it is wished to ascertain. For this purpose the
masons themselves were called upon, who alone could tell wbat was
their understanding of them.
The proceeding, certainly, was not an ordinary one ; and it might
well be questioned whether the committee or any other tribunal, if
resisted, could have adhered to it. But the masons having at the
3S
Digitized by Google
29
requestor the committee, written out and delivered in the forms of
all the masonic obligations administered in this State, as before men*
tioned; freely came forward ,when called upon, and upon their oaths
gave, full, explicit and unequivocal explanations of all those obliga­
tions, and of the sense in which they had always understood them;
and without hesitation answered all questions put respecting them,
as well those handed in by their adversaries as those put directly by
the committee.
The masonic witnesses examined were about sixty in number, most
of whom explained their obligations and in Substance, uniformly in
the same way. They are all of them men of good standing and many
of them men of high standing and respectability in the community.
The grand lodge, which is the representative head of all the lodges,
had also given the same explanations in an address to the public.
Those explanations may therefore be considered as expressing the
sense of the Whole masonic fraternity in the State. And being in all
respects consistent with the obligations themselves, (as proved to
be taken in connection with and qualified by the previous addresses
and the charges) the question as to the sense ifluwhich those obliga­
tions are understood by the masons themselves, who have taken
them ought to be considered as settled; unless .there is some proof
that they have given different explanations on other occasions; or
have fraetised upon a different construction. In that case it would
he neoessafy to compare the conflicting testimony and to deeide
upon its relative weight. But there is no such proof of any kind
whatever. The testimony given by the masons stands, therefore,
wholly uncontradicted.
There are several depositions of seceding masons in which a differ­
ent explanation is given as their understanding of the matter: but in
this, there is no contradiction of the declarations of the masons
expressing their understanding of it. What is said by both sets of
witnesses as to their respective constructions of the obligations may
be perfectly true.
It is to be regretted that those seceding masons should have taken *
obligations which they considered highly criminal and injurious to
their fellow citizens; and, much more so, that they should have wil­
fully continued in error, some of them for years, advancing on to the
highest degrees of iniquity; according to their belief. Bui, better
late than never; they aid right in withdrawing at last. ‘ They were
bound to do so, not only for their own conscience sake; but in duty
to their brethren, who believed the obligations they had taken to be
perfectly innocent; but who, by associating with them, as masons,
exposed themselves to the imputation of entertaiuing’the same opin­
ion of the criminality of obligations which they nevertheless contin­
ued to adhere to. , #
Having at last, performed this duty, the seceding masons, we pre­
sume, meant in their depositions no more than to give their reasons
fcnr^imd to acknowledge their past error. For we are bound to
presume that they did not mean to,criminate their brethren whom
they had recently left, and to charge them with having the same un­
standing of the obligations as they, the seceders, had—believing,them
Digitized by Google
30
to be criminal; yet continuing to practice upon them. If they had heard
the masonic fraternity give different explanations of the meaning of
their oaths, and known them to practice upon different instructions;
it would have been their duty to have stated the facts, and most un­
doubtedly, they would have done it, and must have been weighed by
its amount, and the number and respectability of the witnesses.
But having no such facts to state, and knowing of none such, for
them to make or insinuate such a charge,*would manifest a hardihood
and an abandonment of all decency and principle, which would justly
and effectually strip themselves of all credit. We are bound there­
fore, we repeat, to presume that they meant no such thing; and that
they intenaed only to express their own individual sense of the ob­
ligations, without impeaching the veracity of others expressing a^dif-
ferent one. With this understanding of their testimony, as there are
but few, comparatively, of those dissenting witnesses; as they are
not now masons, and speak only of their own opinions, whieh cannot
affect the opinions of the masons themselves, it is not very necessa­
ry that we should refer particularly to what they do state. We will
however give the substance of the testimony of each of them upon
this head.
An interrogatory was framed (the 10th of the standing interroga­
tories) for the purpose of getting the understanding of each witness
upon the subject of the penal clause. Mores Thacher, in answer to
this question said, “ when I took these oaths I did not, at that time,
consider that I was giving jurisdiction to the lodge to inflict the pen­
alties of said oaths as expressed in the question, because I did not
until sometime afterwards give serious attention to the import of
those oaths, as I have before stated; the circumstances under which
they are taken renders it impossible !” He once heard the subject
introduced (of masonic penalties) in St. Albans Lodge “ one mem­
ber explained the subject in this way, that the candidate swears that
rather than reveal his masonic secrets he would suffer so and so.’’
Levi Ckace. He did not at first consider the oaths as giving juris­
diction over life, but on reflection he did—probably about a year af*
terwards. He considered that his life would be in danger if he had
complained to the lodge.
•Anson Potter. After he had looked the oaths over, he had but little
doubt about them—he considered that he had placed his life at stake.
When this was he does not inform us. If by looking the oaths over
he means reading them, he could not have done this until Morgan’s
book carad out, unless he read them in “ the Mason’s Own Book,’9
In which the penalties are explained directly contrary to his expla­
nation.
John Prentice. Did not know as he ever came to any conclusion
as to the jurisdiction of the lodge. Did not believe that if he broke
his obligations, the lodge would take his life. Never heard the pow­
er asserted, nor the question of the penalty discussed.
John Brown, of E. G. Did understand that he gave such jurisdic­
tion to the lodge as far as he could, and that he was to share in it
over others.
Doct. B . W. Case. Had the same understanding of it as Mr. J .
Brown.
Digitized by L ^ o o Q l e
si
Ray Potter, He lento the penalty of the masonic obligations to b e*
death in case of revealing the secrets.
' These, we think, are all the witnesses whose depositions contain
any thing upon this head. And we perceive that they do but give
their own impressions, and do not in any way contradict any thing
that is said bv the masons as to their understanding of the penalties.
As applicable to the same subject, the chairman of the antinlasonic
committee (Mr. Wm. Sprague,) asked the attention of the commit­
tee to certain letters of Mr. Ray Potter, Mr. Wm. Sprague, jun and
Mr. John Prentice, and a certificate of Mr. Henry Tatem and others,
contained in a newspaper—the R. I. American of August 2, 1831 *.
These gentlemen put the same construction upon the penalties as
is given by some of the last named witnesses: But they do not con­
tent themselves with merely stating their own impressions. It seems
that the grand lodge, in an address to the public, had given an ex-
S
lanation of the penal clause of the masonic obligations, as it is un-
erstood and practiced upon by them.
It was the same explanation which is now found to be the only true
one. But,vin consequence of it, Elder Ray Potter, who says he had
taken one degree in masonry,—entered apprentice’s,—publishes in a
newspaper an address to the grand lodge; in which he a good deal
more than insinuates against them the charge of falsehood, knavery
and impiety. The following extract from his address is taken from
the newspaper banded to us by Mr. Sprague Sen. Viz.: “ I never ex­
pected to near a solemn asseveration from any adhering mason of
moral or religious standing; much less from the Grand Lodge of Rhode-
Island like the following”—“We, (the grand lodge) solemnly aver,
in the sight of heaven, and appeal to the Searcher of hearts to attest
our sincerity, that we have never received, given ilbr countenanced,
any obligation requiring or sanctioning the sacrifice of human life, as
the penalty for disclosing masonic secrets.”
It is this solemn affirmation of the grand lodge which excites the
astonishment and indignation of Elder Potter; and the following is
the manner in which he proves its falsehood, viz.: “ Now I most sol­
emnly aver in the sight of heaven, appealing to the Judge .of all the
earth that I speak the truth, that, there was administered to me in
the Pawtucket lodge, the obligation of an entered apprentice to keep
the secrets of masonry, the penalty of which was thus expressed:—
Binding myself under no less penalty than to have my throat cut
across,” &c. reciting the same clause, in substance, as that contained
in the form of the oath given by the masons, and as that given in the
book in cypher “The Mason’s own Book;” in which book we have
seen this penal clause of the obligation is explained in precisely the
same sense and manner as it is understood and explained by the
grand lodge and the great body of masons.
#The following is an extract from a letter addressed by Mr. W. Sprague,
sen. to the committee, viz: “ Paper No. 7, contains the statement or one of
your honorable committee, Wiliam Sprague, jun. Esq. asserting the language
ofcertain portions of the three first oaths. It is requested that that gentle­
man may be examined with others who have certified with him.”-—
4, 5.
Digitized by Google
This is but one of the frequent instances in which rash tnen bring
themselves into situations in which the only hope of escape from the
severest reprehension is, in that Christian charity which they have
themselves withheld from others, when, justice only was asked of
them. Mr. Potter had no proof that the members of the grand lodge
were not sincere, and did not believe what they affirmed! He bad
never heard them give a different explanation, or known them to ,
practice upon a different construction of the obligations. He did
not pretend that he had. The only ground of his charge against
them was, that they differed from him in opinion. He swears, (in
his deposition) that he knew the penalties of the masonic obligations
to be death. The grand lodge merely aver that they do not under­
stand them so, and do not countenance any such construction of them
by the brethren. According to his construction the obligations are
highly criminal; according to the construction put upon them by the
grand lodge, whose province it is to instruct the fraternity in the true
sense and meaning of their obligations: according to them, those ob­
ligations are innocent: and for this, Elder Potter denounces them.
He does not charge them with ignorance* or error of opinion. It
would be absurd fora one degree m^son to do so. Many of the mem­
bers of the grand lodge have been masons for a great number of years; ,
have officiated, and been present at the. initiation of many others; ;
and are thoroughly acquainted with all masonic proceedings andprin- •
ciples. It is not ignorance; it is something much worse, that Elder
JPotter charges them with. His own language excludes tbe idea of
his charging them with mere error of opinion. “ I never expected |
to hear a solemn asseveration from any adhering mason of moral and |
religious standing; much less from tbe grand lodge of Rhode Island,
dike tbe following.” This cannot be misunderstood; .it indicates
•with quite sufficient plainness, the nature of tbe charge he makes,
^against the members of the grand lodge; and not only members of
abe grand lodge, but tbe whole body of masons in the State, whom
ithey represent, and whose sentiments he knew, or had reason to be­
lieve they spoke.
But Elder Potter was not 'satisfied with his own attack upon the
tgrand lodge, he must iueite others to fall on with hiim This,was
wholly unprovoked. It does not appear that they had given him any
offence, or even that they knew there was such a man in existence.
'The reason he assigns, in his letter to William Sprague, Jr., for bis
-attack upon tbe grand lodge, was that they had virtually accused of
falsehood, the whole body ofseceaers in the United States, who had declared
the penalty of the masonic obligations to be death. We find nothing in the
address to which he alludes, which furnishes the slightest foundation
for this charge.
The persons to whom Elder Potter applied, (Mr. Sprague and
Mr. JohnPrentice,) readily answered to his call; and the former sup­
plied him with a certificate signed by four others. Mr. Prentice goes
almost as great lengths as Elder Potter himself; and broadly and
coarsely intimates his opinion, that the grand lodge had been guilty
of falsehood. We do not think it necessary to repeat his language.
It may be seen in tbe newspaper referred to. He was a member of
3*
Digitized by Google
as*
a lodge about eighteen years; the first part of the time very active
as junior deacon; and he “never heard any one attempt to give any other
explanation to the oaths and penalties of masonry than those that
struck the mind when they are first repeated, viz: a plain literal sig­
nification
Yet in his deposition before referred to, he swore that he did “not
know that he ever came to any definite conclusion as to the jurisdic­
tion of the lodge.” He “ did not believe that the lodge would
take his life if he broke the obligations.” He further says in his let­
ter, “ I have seen a considerable number take these degrees, and I
never heard any one attempt to explain these oaths and penalties
different from what they read.” From this he plainly intends it shall
be inferred that the penalty for a breach of the obligations is death;
and that the lodge, according to the words of the penalty, would
have power to inflict it. Yet, in addition to what we have just taken
from his. deposition, given before the committee, he therein further
swears, that he never “ heard the subject of the nature and extent of
the masonic penalties discussed in any lodge;” and he never “ heard
itasserted in any lodge, that said lodge had power to inflict upon any
member, for any offence whatever, any higher punishment than ex-
fiulsion,” &c. &c. Such is the difference between a letter written
or a newspaper, and a deposition under oath. Mr. Prentice discov­
ers a great deal of warmth both in his deposition and his letter. The
cause of this, perhaps, is sufficiently explained in the deposition of
Benajah Warner ana William Trescott, both in the appendix.
Henry Tatem, Willard Ballou, Emanuel Rice, Robert W. Potter,
signers to the certificate procured by Mr. Sprague for Mr. Potter,
say, “ From our own personal knowledge, the account therein (Elder
Potter’s communication,) given of the penalty annexed to the obliga­
tion of an entered apprentice mason is correct. Nor have we ever
understood or heard any mason express any other meaning of the
penalty,” &c. &c. This seems to be rather a peremptory mode of
settling a question, upon which the representative body of the whole
masonic fraternity had expressed an opposite opinion.
Mr. William Sprague, Jr. expresses a similar opinion, and he also,
never “ heard any mason express or imply (previous to the address of
the grand lodge) that the meaning of [the penalty] was otherwise
than expressed by the words thereof.” We understand the grand
lodge to say the same thing, and that the true meaning of the words
of the penalty, is as they have given it. Mr. Sprague adds that he
has heard many masons say, that the penaltyfor disclosing masonic secrets
was death. Most people will probably be of opinion that this aver­
ment ought not to have been made without naming those many ma­
sons, or some of them at least, since, their authority cannot be
counted upon, without their being named ordcnown. It seems to be
a favorite averment with all these witnesses, that they never heard any
mason express any other opinion than, &c. &c. The assertion is an equiv­
ocal one, and is calculated, and sometimes, at least intended to mis­
lead; as we have just seen in the instance of Mr. Prentice.
It is testified by many witnesses that they never heard the subject
of the masonic penalties discussed in any lodge. And the reason of
Digitized by Google
34
it is that there is nothing to discuss; for the meaning; of them (pre~
cisely as explained by the grand lodge) is clearly pointed out in the
lectures, as we have seen it done in the “ Mason’s own book,” as it is
proved by Dr. Case; and is exemplified even in the master’s charge
given in the antimasonic books of Bernard and Allyn. In which
charge, the master of the lodge, after telling the candidate for the
master’s degree, that in the preceding ceremonies, he, the candidate,
bad represented the great mason, Hiram, who was murdered by ruf­
fians for his fidelity in refusing to betray the secrets of masonry, im­
presses it upon him to follow that example.
How is it, that all this class of witnesses, while with such unqual­
ified positiveness they pronounce their opinions, nay their certain
knowledge of the only true meaning of the obligations, turn out to
be so wholly ignorant of it! It is laid down by Mlyn, that the master o f
a lodge is bound byhis oath never to leave his lodge Without giving, or caus­
ing to be given, a lecture or somepart of one. And we have seen that in
the front of the first lecture of the first degree, the meaning of the
penal clause of the obligation, and it is the same in all the other de­
grees, is so clearly indicated, that it cannot be misunderstood. Is it
possible that these witnesses have never heard any of these lectures!
Mr. John Prentice states that he was a member of a lodge about
eighteen years; and part of the time was a junior deacon. Mr. Wil­
liam Sprague Jr. appears to have been intimately acquainted with the
masonry of the three first degrees. In bis late protest to the General
Assembly, he says; “ It is believed by the undersigned, and so far as
the threefirst degrees are concerned, he asserts from his own personal knowl­
edge, that the signs and ceremonies of those degrees are very mate­
rial in showing the nature of the oaths, and the construction intended
to be put upon them; particularly in reference to the penalties for
their violation!” True, very true; they are material for that purpose;
and every mason is taught, in the lectures; (from which Mr. Sprague
must have obtained his knowledge,) what is the connexion between
those signs and the penalties of the obligations, and what is the allu­
sion of the former to the latter. Thus, when be is asked if the sign
of his degree h&s any allusion, he is taught to answer that it has al­
lusion to the penalty of his obligation; that he had rather suffer so
"
* and so, (that is, be murdered as was Hiram Jlbiffi) than violate his ob­
ligations.
Weight and character of the testimony.
It may not be improper that some remarks should be made upon
this head. It is apparent that whatever information we can have
upon the subject of the masonic obligations and masonry must be
obtained chiefly from masons and seceding masons; and that both oF
those classes of Witnesses are interested in the inquiry. The masons
are interested in preserving the confidence of their fellow citizens;
and of course, in resisting the charges brought against them. But
they are to be treated like other men; and ought not to be discredi­
ted upon mere accusation and suspicion. They ought to be believ­
ed until something is proved against them justly affecting their credi­
bility. With respect to their concern in masonry; instead of tbeir
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
35
having an Interest in subjecting themselves or remaining subject to
criminal obligations anu penalties; it is evident that their interest
would be directly the contrary.
Seceding masons are interested in two ways. 1st, They have
broken promises which they had heretofore very solemnly entered
into with their late brethren; and if they do not satisfactorily justify
this breach of promise they must be disgraced. They bad a perfect
right to renounce lodges and masonry; but no right to betray the
confidence reposed in them by their brethren, without good cause.
The only way in which they could justify themselves for their breach
of trust was by alleging a paramount duty to the community and ac­
cusing masons and masonry of crimes or criminal principles and obli­
gations, which the safety of the community required them to expose.
And to leare no r&om to doubt the sufficiency of this justification,
they take care that their accusations shall not be wanting either in
magnitude or number.
The situation in which this description of seceding masons stand,
when called as witnesses, is palpable. If they do not make good
their charges, they stand convicted both of treachery to their form­
er brethren, and of having unade false charges against them. And if
to this we add the, bias 01 a strong political interest, we can hardly
conceive of a witness being under stronger disqualifications.*
Whoever will refer to the depositions of some of the principal se­
ceding masons will clearly perceive the operation of these influences
upon them, and the insurmountable embarrassment under which these
witnesses were kept by them. Since they had become political
seceders they had led the war against their late brethren and charg­
ed them with having taken the most criminal oaths, when therefore
the following questions were put to them, from the standing inter­
rogatories; viz.:—Did you seriously attend when the obligations
were administered to you, and endeavor to understand them? did you
understand them? did you reflect upon them afterwards and did you
understand them then? if not did you inquire? were you satisfied? if
not did you complain to the lodge? They could only escape from
the dilemma they had placed themselves in by the plea of ignorance;
which some of them were obliged to repeat so often that it became
ludicrous. We will give a specimen merely, from the depositions of
Moses Thatcher and Levi Cnace.
Mom Thatcher. When he took the oaths he had no time to consider
whether he could conform to them and at the same time conform to his civil
and religious duties. Did not reflect afterwards [nor consult them in
Morgan, which he said he had then.] After taking all the oaths he
came to the conclusion that they would conflict. Jit the time he took
(heoaths he did not consider he gave jurisdiction to the lodge over his
life; did not till some time after give serious attention to import of the
♦Cadwallader D. Colden is a seceding mason, and has both renounced and
denounced tbe institution, as one into which such abuses have crept that it has
become dangerous, though in principle not bad. But we understand him to
•ay in one' of bis published letters, that be had no intention to break any
promises which he had made. To such seceding masons our remarks do not
m b-
Digitized by Google
86
oaths; so far as he recollects considered the charge binding in connex*
ion with his obligation “ my attention was at thatArne more particularly
called to what are called the secrets than to what I could examine at
leisure,” [then a minister of the gospel.] He thought seriously af­
ter the Morgan affair and the Le Roy Convention; yet he adhered.
Afterwards he heard a story of a grand lodge murdering a man, and
believed the account; yet held on;—aftd after this (on 13th May
1829) delivered an address before his lodge in which he eulogizes
masonry and is thanked. During the next ten days he discovered
all the guiltiness of masonry—on the 24th same month, he exposed
it all before his church and congregation. And about the same time
he was a candidate for a place in the Senate of Massachusetts.
Levi Chace. Minister of the gospel. He did not expect an oath
to be administered to him, would not have felt as he did when found
he had to take oath for all committee are worth; took next shortly
after; afraid to protest; did not complain because his masonic obli­
gations would not tolerate it; he was afraid the penalties would be
inflicted on him. Dangerous to complain of oaths beeause of that
part of the obligation which forbade to speak evil of a brother and
to .keep his secrets inviolate; for could not speak against the4nstitu-
tion without speaking against those who supported it. Had taken
six degrees; was a mason from 1815 to 1829. Took three degrees
in 1815—16, three more in 1822, and propounded for royal arch, af­
ter this. Did not communicate to lodge before he left; because
afraid. “ I consider,” said he, “masonically, that if the grand hailing
sign had been given to me on the occasion, (voting) I should have
been in duty bound to vote for the mason. The reason is, that the
penalty of the obligation is that I am bound to go on a master mason’s
errand and to relieve him if there is greater probability of saving his
life thin of losing my own, “ / speak masonically.” Is confident he
did not understand the oaths when he took them as he now does.
At first had not time to consider whether he gave jurisdiction to
the lodge over life.
Character and extent of the Masonic Obligations, and of the principles of
Masonry, as understood and practised upon in Rhode-Island.
It is agreed and sworn to both by masons and seceding masons,
that the masonic obligations (as far as administered in this State) are
now all made public: in the antimasonic books of Bernard and Allyn,
or in the book in Cypher, according to seceding masons: and in the
manuscript forms according to masons.
It is also agreed and sworn to by both masons and seceding masons,
that the by-laws, rules and regulations of lodges are all printed or
written and recorded on the lodge books, and that there are no se­
cret lodge, books, bye-laws or regulations. It is also agreed and
sworn to by both masons and seceding masons that the secrets or
mysteries of masonry consist of the ceremonies of initiation; the signs
of recognition, tokens, words and modes of working. And it is tes­
tified by seceding masons that all the secrets or mysteries of mason­
ry are fully and correctly disclosed in Allyn and Bernard’s books.
The masons, as to this, say that they neither affirm nor deny; feel­
Digitized by Google
87
ing themselves bound by their promises, not to disclose those mys«
teries. Several of them did however deny all knowledge of the rep*
resentation of a burning bush, or of the ceremony called the fifth li­
bation*
With respect to the signs and other secrets, the committee an­
nounced, during the examination of the first masonic witness (Mr.
Wm. Wilkinson) that they should not press the masonic witnesses
upon that head; but tha« they should consider them to be correctly
S
riven in the antimasonic books unless the contrary was shown. And
rom the evidence which was given before the committee and such
observations as they have been enabled to make; they have little
doubt of the fact. We must also keep in mind “ The Mason's own
Book,” which, we are fully convinced is genuine masonic authority.
It may not be used in the lodges which are presided over by bright
masons; but it certainly was compiled by a mason or masons perfect­
ly acquainted with masonry in this State. The oaths are the same
almost word for word, and it was put into the hands of the chairman
as genuine and correct masonry, and is sworn to be so by Capt.
Geo. Howland himself an adhering mason. There is other conclu­
sive evidence also that the secrets of masonry are out, at least so
far as Morgan’s book went.
It was acknowledged by several masons during the late examina­
tions, that a check degree or check word had been devised by the
masons to prevent ubook masons” from working into their lodges.
The committee therefore may confidently affirm that the public are
now in possession of the whole of masonry as practised in this State.
The books of constitutions, monitors and bye-laws of lodges were
already public; and now its ceremonies of initiation, lectures, signs,
tokens, words, symbols or emblematical representations are also dis­
closed. It is likewise agreed and sworn toJ>y masons and seceding
masons, that an address in each degree is made by the master to the
candidate before he takes the obligation, and a charge immediately
after it in connexion with which address and charge the obligation is
taken and is qualified by them. The address is the same or very
nearly so for all the degrees. The form of it accompanies the an­
nexed manuscript forms of the R. I. oaths. The following is the ad­
dress as given by Dr. Case, in St. John’s lodge No. 1, in Newport,
viz.: “ You are now about to enter into a very serious and solemn ob­
ligation, more serious and solemn than you are aware of. There is
nothing in it contrary to religion, morality or the laws of your coun­
try; but it is founded in faith, hopeand charity, which if rightly pur­
sued, is capable of carrying man to the highest degree of perfection.
If any doubts or disgusts have arisen in your mind from what you
have already gone through you are now at liberty to decline your initio-
tion; but if you still persist in the motives which I presume brought you
here you will please .to give me your right hand.”
The charges for the several degrees are contained in Webb’s Free­
mason’s Monitor. By referring to the contents of the addresses and
charges therefore, in connexion with the old forms we are to ascer­
tain the character of the masonic obligation. Wo see by the terms
of the address just copied that the obligation is no further binding
Digitized by Google
38
than as it conforms to that address. It is not to be construed te
contain any thing contrary to religion, morality or the laws ofthe com*
try;—the charges are of the same character.
We will here make some references to Bernard’s Light on Mason­
ry, from which antimasonic authority even, it will appear how far the
character given of the masonic obligations, viz. that they are incom­
patible with all the religious, moral, civil and social duties of the ma­
son is true. “ A zealous attachment tp these principles will ensure
public and private esteem. In the State you are to be quiet and
peaceable subjects, true to your government and just to your coun­
try,” &c.—Bernard p. 25—page 29, end of a prayer, “ May w
fe so
practice thy precepts, that through the merits of the Redeemer m may,
$*c. <^c.
It will be seen in the deposition of John Prentice, a minister of the
gospel, that he asserts that there is no reference to the Saviour in
any of the ceremonies; Levi chace, another preacher, and we think
Moses Thacher, are much the same. Page 33— u The Holy Bible
is given to us as a guide for our path and practice.” Page 39—“ 2.
What do they teach? [that is, faith, hope and charity.] A. Faith |
in God, hope in immortality, and charity to all mankind.” Page 41.
“ The gospel was first preached in the east, and is spreading to the
west.” 1
In short, it would be an almost endless work to transcribe all the
passages, precepts and instructions, inculcating and teaching all the
moral, religious, civil and social duties and virtues contained even in
this antimasonic book, compiled for the purpose of bringing masonry
into disrepute.
Thus we find that the character of the masonic obligations as re­
ceived, understood and practiced upon in this State has been entirely
falsified and misrepresented. This being the case, it follows of course
that all those charges which this prolific source of accusation has
been made to furnish, must fall to the ground. We will however re­
cord them all, and pay such attention to them as any of them may
seem to require.
First charge. That the masonic oaths are in violation of civil oaths,
and held to be of superior binding force.
We have just seen that the obligation is taken with the qualifica­
tion that it is not to interfere with religion, morality, or the laws of this
country. And was there no address at all, there is nothing in the form
of the oath itself which can warrant suph construction.
Second. That masons are bound to give a prefereuce to each oth­
er over all others, in all cases, right of wrong, and murder and trea­
son not excepted.
These are the spurious clauses, proved not to be in the Rhode-Island
forms, and probably not in any forms whatever. Not a solitary in­
stance we believe is shown of any preference given by a mason to a
mason over others; and how the obligation is understood in this par­
ticular will be seen by the following summary of the testimony of
both classess of witnesses.
Moses Thacher. Did not consider himself bound to favor a mason
to the personal or pecuniary injury of a fellow-citizen not a mason.
Digitized by Google
V
John Brawn. Never considered himself bound to favor a mason;
all things equal be might do so, just as might in case of church mem­
bers.
jDr. Cose. It was part of his oath to give a brother mason a pref­
erence in his trade and calling. [Dr. Case is all alone in this.]
Capt. Win. Russel. Was once brought too by a vessel of war, or­
dered on board with papers, drank a glass of wine with commander,
recognized each other as masons, sent back to his own vessel, and
found himself robbed of every thing they (some of the crew of the
war vessel) could lay hands on. [Capt. R. was called by the anti-
masonic committee to prove he had been once captured by a vessel
of war, and was released by making himself known as a mason, and
giving the hailing sign of distress. His answer was as above.]
Bateman Monro. Masonry great benefit to him in French, English
and Spanish dominions, was aided in smuggling by officers of cus­
toms, and by governor and bishop; made himsslf known in foreign
countries by the arts and sciences given him. [This old man imputes
all the frauds and profits of smuggling to his three degree masonry.]
Third, hat lodges and masons interpose impediments to the im­
partial administration of justice.
The character and nature of the oath as proved, fully refutes this
charge; but there is some testimony upon this head which we will
refer to and sum up.
Daniel Howland, Jamestown, about “ 40 years ago was on a jury
in a case in which one party was a mason; only one juror, who was a
mason held out until the court took the papers. Plain case and next
court decided against the mason. Did not himself know the fact,
heard it said only that the juror and party were masons.” It appears
Mr. Howland was misinformed. The miuute books of both courts
(county of Newport,) have been thoroughly searched, and there is
only one case in each, in which Mr. Howland was on the jury; and
there was no verdict. In the case in the common pleas, Mr. John
Stevens -was on the jury with Mr. Howland, he testifies that the
jury were equally divided. It does not appear from the lodge books
in Newport, that either of the parties were masons. The defendant
the late Doct. Jonathan Easton, against whom the case went on next
trial, was a strict member of the friends society. The case Mr. How­
land alluded to, probably was “ Caleb Coggeshall against Thomas
Townsend.” Two of the jury in that case being recollected by Mr.
Howland as having been on with him. The jury did not agree, and
the case went against Townsend at the next term. But he Thomas
Townsend was never a mason, and it does not appear that the other
party was.
Samuel S. Peckham. “ He was on a jury about three years ago,
one of the jurors (a Tiverton man) told him he was once a juror in
one of the masonic cases. That a number of the jurors having been
taken off, an officer was sent over to Tiverton to take up jurors;
and they had a man there, at the four corners, to tell him who to
take. He (the informant was one.) He did not tell witness who tjhe
man was, tnat was stationed at the corners nor the officer’s name.
He (thf informant) meant that the man was placed there by the ma-
39
Digitized by Google
40
sods opposed to Dr. Case. He did not tell the witness bow he came
by his knowledge, nor did witness ask him. That juror said that
that was the way he come to be on the jury, and he should not have
been on otherwise; said he had changed his opinion from what it was
when on that jury.” Here was an highly criminal charge, implies*
ting the sheriff and his deputy both very respectable, also the wit­
nesses, and one of the parties, consisting of about two hundred men.
Benjamin Grinnell. [This was the juror referred to by Samuel S.
Peckham, and was identified by Peckham himself, who was called for
that purpose.] He was on one of the masonic cases, was taken up
on venire by sheriff Carr; as were three others. The sheriff was at­
tended by George Howland, deputy sheriff, [in Tiverton] whom he
heard say in the evening, that Carr had requested him to come with
him, as he, Carr, was not acquainted with the people and did not
know who were qualified to serve as jurors. Had no knowledge or
belief that either ofthe parties in the case, had any agency or direc­
tion, in taking up of himself or any other persons. On the contrary
it was mentioned by George Howland, that the object of their com­
ing there was to get jurors who did not know anything about the
case. He never from that time to this, has had any reason to believe
that any improper influence was employed on that occasion.
Peter Almy. Never heard any judge, juror, witness, or officer in
the performance of his duty prefer a mason over another was not a
mason. Has had cases in court which went differently from what he
thought right; there was some mystery in it. ’ Whether it was ma­
sonry or not, can’t tell. The particular case alluded to was with E.
Davenport, for whom it was carried on by E. Wilcox, who was a ma­
son; informed there were several masons on each jury.
Isaac A. Dennis. Heard Peleg Almy say that if that institution
(masonic) was not put down, no man in this country could get jus­
tice done him; that he felt the effects of it.
Dr. B. W. Case states several things leading to a similar conclu­
sion, ifsubstantiated, to that drawn by Peleg Almy; but as they were
hearsay and concerned Dr. Cases’ own suits, it is not necessary to
mention them here: his deposition is in the appendix. The com­
mittee inquired into the things which had been told to Dr. Case, as
far as in their power, but did not find them confirmed.
JSd. Murphy. When one of the masonic cases on trial saw Capt.
S. T. Northam and Doct. Cotton (masons) pass quick by a juror,
and Capt. N. put something into his hand: [See the deposition for
the circumstances:] He (witness) immediately went home and told
hid uncle, Capt. W. Price; uncle did not inquire who juror was, nor
take witness to show him; witness did not know nor inquire; never
told Dr. Case till asked by said Case night before last, if he had not
said so and so; has lived in Dr. Case’s house about three years.
Capt. William Pricejlhe uncle. Called and asked to state particu­
larly all he recollected about this affair, he answered “ that is very
easily done for I don’t recollect any thing about it.” Capt. Price
was a party with Doct. Case, and as zealous as he was. Those m a­
sonic cases were on the docket 8 or 9 years afterwards, but the cir­
cumstance was never mentioned to the counsel of Dr. Case^wbo i*
one of this committee
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
41
#
Cftpt. 8. T. Northam. Took very little part in the masonic trials,
very seldom near the court house; had business'enough of his own
"to attend to. Totally denies Murphy’s statement.
Fourth. Political interferences. TJtese is no evidence whatever of
any instance.
The following is a summary of the testimony on both sides, as to
masonic obstructions to justice and interference in politics.
Moses Thackert Never knew politics discussed in lodges. He did
not vote for or support any person on account of his being a mason,
nor did he consider himself bound so to do by his masonic obligatiops.
Never knew any judge, juror, or officer, to construe oath as binding
him to giv*e preference to a mason.
Anson Pottsr. Politics and religion never discussed, ’tis a principle
not to permit. Could see nothing in obligations which ought to
have the least influence on his mind in politics. If grand hailing sign
ef distress Lad been given to him, he should have answered it by
giving a quarter of a dollar, perhaps, or fifty cents, ifa worthy rttem-
ber, &c. [He a political antimason as well as Thacher.]
John Prentice. Seceding mason. Same as Anson Potter.
John Brown. [Political antimason and signer to September ad­
dress.] Same in substance as Poster and Prentice.
The by-laws of the lodges also (some of which we have seen,) ex­
clude the subjects of religion and politics from discussion.
And all the principal masonic witnesses confirmed the same fact; ,
-and proved that masonry in this state has never been allowed to *!
have any influence over the political opinions or actions of the j
-brethren. And, in short, it is a fact well known to us all that during
the highest party times among ourselves, all the most prominent and
Influential men among the masons, who were of different political ;sen-
liments, have voted and .acted against eaoh other without reserve,
and frequently, with great zeal; and that their doing so, did not, at
the time, excite any attention, as a thing unusual.
Fifth. That the principles, practices, usages, laws, customs, oaths
.and obligations of the several corporate bodies in this state, known
as chapters and lodges, are in direct violation of the constitution and
laws of the United States, and of the laws of this state. This charge
is involved in those already disposed, of and is equally without found­
ation.
Sixth. That the members of these corporate bodies have taken
fllegal oaths, which they consider binding, administered in a form
contrary to law, and with penalties unknown to judicial tribunals,
forever to conceal the customs, practices, obligations and proceed­
ingshy which their secret code of laws-is administered; and that the
peualties sanctioned by these oaths for a disclosure of the secrets of
masons or of masonry, involve the punishments of having the throat
cut across from ear to ear, &c. &c. reciting the penal clause. The
assertion fhal the masons,hold theirobligations as part of their secrets,
has been practically disproved by the full and unerserved disclosure
of those obligations in writing by the masons themselves. What was
called the secrets and mysteries of masonry, have also been fully
disclosed hy seceding masons, and are notjienied by masons They
^ Digitized by Google
42
may alt be seen and read in the antimasonic books; which profess to
bring all things (in masonry) to light; all the ceremonies of initiation,
signs, tokens, words, lectures, workings, symbols and pictures;
curiosities which may amuse us, as well as our children, for a mo­
ment; but in which we can have no other interest. Yet there are
T hb Secrets, which, according to the antimasonic memorial “ com-
pm i the whole alleged incompatibility with the laws of the state,’9and ((are
in direct violation of the constitution and laws of the United States.”
The assertion in this sixth charge, that there is a secret code of
masonic laws, is proved to be untrue by all the testimony of the se­
ceding masons, as well as of the masons and by the antimasonic books.
The only remaining part-of the charge is, that the obligations are
administered in an unlawful manner. This may be true, without war­
ranting charges of immorality, and of criminal plotting and conspira­
cy, or even of any intentional impropriety.
It appears that the masons, instead of altering the ancient forms,
with the framing of which they had nothing to do, have qualified and
corrected them by administering them in connexion with the intro­
ductory address and the charges. We do not therefore think it ne­
cessary to enter into a particular examination of the point of law rais­
ed by this charge. We will, however, for the use of those who may
desire more thoroughly to study the point, give here a list of author­
ities referred to and relied upon by the chairman of the antimasonic-
committee [Mr. Wm. Sprague, sen.] in his letter of suggestion to the
committee, viz. '
Sir E. C oke, 3 Inst. 278, 2, Roll. Abr. 257, cited in Jacob Law,
Die. A. oath, Blk. Com. Yol. 4, 137.
Seventh. That the masonic oaths bind the members to withhold
even from the Legislature all information whatever respecting their
proceedings, however important it might be, to enable them to as­
certain whether or not the laws of the State were violated by those
proceedings.
This charge is directly in the face ofthe testimony and ofthe obliga­
tions themselves, which we fiud are taken subject to the laws of the
country and to the civil obligations and duties of the members. And
so the Obligations are proved to be understood and practiced upon
by the masons; who, as we understood them to declare, merely con­
sider themselves bound not to divulge their signs of recognition and
ceremonies by which they are enabled to distinguish one another
from others; to gratify curiosity, idle or impertinent, or to enable per
sons not masons to impose upon their brethren. But that should
they be called upon by the Legislature or by any judicial coart, to
testify respecting those mysteries and to disclose and explain them, |
they would comply without hesitation, and should feel themselves
bound by their masonic obligations themselves to do so. The reso­
lution appointing the committee, gave them no power to compel the
masonic witnesses to disclose their secrets. The course it was
thought best to pursue was, to give the masons a foil opportunity to
disclose and explain their masonic obligations and secrets; and to
take it for granted, and report accordingly, that whatever they refus- i
ed to disclose or explain, was correctly given in the antimasonic
Digitized by Google
43
books, which would no doubt be authenticated by seceding masons.
This is the course which the committee have pursued in respect to
the mysteries of masonry, about which, the masons declined testify­
ing. And this is all they could have done if they had declined giv­
ing their obligations.
Eighth. That the funds of the lodges instead of being enclusive-
ly devoted to charitable purposes after defraying necessary expens­
es, are wasted in unmeaning ceremonies, and useless parades, or go
to swell the revenues of general grand chapters, &c. &c.
It appears by the records of St. John’s lodge No. 1, in Newport,
that a number of years ago, the management of the aifairs of that
lodge fell into bad hands, and a portion of its funds was, for a time,
directed from the true objects of the institution, and used in purchas­
ing wine, &c. Extracts from the records showing those proceed­
ings have been'publisbed and freely circulated in an appendix to the
proceedings of the antimasonic convention of September last and in
other publications, and a copy of those extracts was put into the
hands of the dommittee by the chairman of the antimasonic commit­
tee,—Mr. Wm. Sprague, Sen.—who requested the attention of the
committee to the subject. The books and records of the several
masonic lodges and chapters in Providence, Warren and Newport
were, without hesitation presented to the committee, or to individ­
ual members of it for inspection, and were examined so far as it was
thought necessary. And no other cases of the misapplication of the
funds were found. On the contrary it was proved that large sums
of money had been expended out of those fuuds for charitable pur­
poses; betides considerable sums raised by voluntary contribu­
tions among the members for the same uses.
It was also proved that the expenses of refreshments were gene­
rally paid for by contribution, and not out of the funds. No witness
testified to any misapplication of the funds of any of the lodges or
other masonic bodies. The proceedings of the Newport lodge above
alluded to were a violation of one of the bye-laws of the lodge. In
181T-18, Dr. B. W. Case was appointed master of that lodge; and
there has been no such misapplication of the funds since.
If the officers of the lodge who committed that breach of trust, had
then been called to account by those whom it concerned, the record
of their proceedings would have been proper evidence against them.
But it seems to be very small business to bring it up after this^lapse
of time, for the purpose of impeaching the whole masonic fraternity
in the State, .when it could not, without gross injustice now be used
as a charge even against St. John’s lodge itself in which the circum­
stance took place so many years past.
Ninth. That the Grand Lodge has an unbounded control over
the whole funds of all the subordinate lodges, to do with them as
they please.
In support of this charge the copy of a deposition of De Witt
Clinton used in the masonic trials in New York is produced. That
deposition will be found in the Appendix; and it will be seen that it
contains not a word to countenance such a charge, which has been
framed as is proved by the testimony, without the slightest founda-
Digitized by Google
44
tion in truth. Grand lodges have no manner of control "over ihsr
persons or property of any subordinate lodges or their members'.
Their authority is confined to a superintending control over lodges,
to see that the ancient land-marks,—as masons call them,—are pre­
served, and that the working is uniform and covert and every tfring
according to the principles of masonry; nothing more than this is
advanced by De Witt Clinton.
The grand lodge of this State in 1791, was created by the twor
lodges then existing; which lodges themselves framed a constitution
for their grand lodge. In 1808 the grand lodge revised that eonsti-^
tution, and having made some trifling alteration in the article of fees
to be allowed for its.bare support, St. John’s lodge in Newport re­
jected their constitution and declared, in a vote to be seen on their
records,- that they did not dispute the right of the grand lodge to make
laws for their own government, but they claimed an exclusive right
to manage their own affairs as they pleased, without interference from
any quarter: and to this the grand lodge submitted.
In 1812 the grand lodge made an attempt to erect a masonic body
called the Grand Steward Ledge, and provided for certain small ah
lowances to be made for its support, by the lodges out of the initial
tion fees. The lodges,—those of Newport and Warren,—refused to*
allow of such a lodge, and the grand lodge gave it up. A few years
ago a committee of the grand lodge’undertook to order or recommend a
partition of the funds of St. John’s lodge in North Providence, be­
tween thatlodge and St. Paul’s lodge, which had been formed by a-
bout one half ofthe members of St. John’s. But the latter lodge re­
fused to comply, and on that occasion the grand lodge expressly ac­
knowledged that they had no control over the funds of the subordi­
nate lodges.
Tenth. That the General Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the Unit­
ed States claims from all the State grand and subordinate chapters
and lodges and receives from*them supreme homage, submission and
tribute.
Cross, the author referred to in the antimasonic memorial, whicir
contains this charge speaks exclusively of the three chapter lodges
preceding the royal arch chapter; and has no reference to the grand
and subordinate State lodges. And we should have supposed that
the author of this charge meant no more than this, did it not appear
from a subsequent charge in the same memorial, that it was his inten­
tion to have the word lodge understood as comprehending the grand
and subordinate lodges. This is a deception. It is proved by the
whole testimony, as clearly as a fact can be, that there is no connex­
ion between the grand and subordinate lodges and the chapters or
grand chapters, or general grand royal arch chapters.
Eleventh. u That the State grand lodges derive exclusively from
this source,—the general grand royal arch chapter,—the power of
unlimited taxation, subject to the government in chief.”
. And the same authority, Cross’s Chart, is referred to in support of
this charge. We have mentioned already that there is‘nothing in
.that book, (Crosby which countenances any such assertion. The
charge is wholly unfounded.
The foregoing charges as to the connexion between the different
Dig
45
masonic bodies and thfeir relative jurisdiction, are abundantly refuted
by the testimony. It is proved, that the several lodges in this State
are subordinate, in their masonic affairs, only to the grand lodge of
the state which was formed by two lodges, one in Newport and
the other in Providence in 1791; and that there is not any con­
nexion, jurisdiction, or subordination between these lodges and' any
other masonic body whatever. The several chapters are under the
jurisdiction of the grand chapter of the state in masonic concerns, but
have no connexion with any other masonic body.
The subordinate lodges pay to the grand lodge two dollars on the
initiation of each member, except such as are initiated gratuitously,
and also a fee for a charter; and in this way the grand lodges are en­
abled to defray their necessary expenses. The chapters pay to the
grand chapter a small sdm on the initiation of members, ana also a fee
for a dispensation or charter, for the purpose of defraying the expen­
ses of the grand chapter ; but the grand lodge and grand chapter do
not exercise any other jurisdiction over the subordinate lodges or
chapters relative to the disposition of their funds. *
The grand chapters in the several states by delegates, have formed
a masonic association under the name of the general grand chapter of
the United States, for the purpose of producing uniformity in the ma­
sonic ceremohies; but there was no proof before the committee that
this masonic body exercises any control over the grand chapters; oth­
er than by way ofadvice and instruction.
The higher masonic degrees, or orders of knighthood havenocon-
nexion with ancient freemasonry,or with lodges or chapters; and their
introduction into this state is of comparatively recent date. It. was
not proved that there was any connexion between any of the mason­
ic bodies in the United States and those in Europe, or any other
country ; or that the masonic fraternity in this country were .subject
to one common head or power; but several of the most experienced,
masons testified that they knew of no such connexion. None o f
these masonic bodies exercise, or claim to exercise any civil jurisdic­
tion over the members of any lodge, chapter or encampment, or any
other power, than in masonic concerns. To show the connexion, ju­
risdiction and character of the several masonic orders, reference may
be made to the depositions of Messrs William Wilkinson, Moses Ricn-
ardson, Nathan M. Wheaton, Nicholas G. Ross, Isaac Stall and oth­
ers, who explain the subject in the manner which we have here stated.
Consistory. It appears that in 1813, a masonic order called a consis­
tory was introduced at Newport, by John A. Shaw who obtained, for
that~purpose, a charter from a grand consistory in New-York. Tea
members, named in the charter, composed this body, and one only
Jeremiah Bliss, was afterwards admitted. Of the original members,,
five are dead; the other five with Capt. Bliss, were all examined.
The substance of their testimony is, that, there were a few meet­
ings,—one or two according to Bliss—to elect officers or to consult
about i t ; that no books were purchased; and no other records, than
minutes of members attending,and of officers chosen. That there have
been no officers for a number of years, and no meetings for at least
eight or nine years. Something was paid for the charter, but how
much ftneofthem know.
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
The charter was in possession of Capt. Bliss, who thinks that
it was left with him by John A. Shaw when he left Newport, which
was a number of years ago. Mr. Bliss left the charter with the com­
mittee who still have it. The name of Cadwallader D . Colden is to it,
as one of the high officers of the grand consistory in New.York, who
had taken his 33d degree. That the consistory never came to any
thing; it was always incomplete,and has long since died away. Some of
the few remaining members had entirely forgotten its existence until
circumstances were mentioned, which brought it to their recollec­
tion.
John A. Shaw was a man extravagantly addicted to freemasonry ;
~and spent a good deal of money (some of which he borrowed) in
getting himself bedecked with the high sounding titles, and (as he
was simple enough to believe) honor of the upper masonic orders.
It was while he was master of the Newport lodge that the greatest
extravagancies were committed in that’lodge.
Evidence applicable to charges of a personal character.
Levi Chace. Heard Elder Daniel Green say, Morgan had suffered
his deserts.
Elder D. Greene. Said to Levi Chase, that it (Morgan’s murder)
was an awful thing before God, but that we were not to blame for
what others did. That every society had its bad members. He
never justified the murder of Morgan before Mr. Ehace or any man
living, in any way whatever.
Jmrbham Wilkinson. Heard Samuel Greene justify the murder
of Morgan. Threats towards himself by Samuel E. Gardner.
Wm. Harris. Confirms Abm. Wilkinson, as to Samuel Greene,
Samuel E..Gardner, and thinks he heard Barney Merry also justify it.
John Gardner. Heard Samuel Green justify it.
Samuel Greene. Often assailed by Abm. Wilkinson with great bit­
terness, and irritated and provoked, but he never had any idea of
justifying the murder of Morgan, which he abhorred as nmcb as any
man.
Barney Merry. Denies he ever justified the murder of Morgan in
any way, nor the conduct of those concerned in it.
Barney Phelps. Heard a mason justify it ; this was Tim. Bracket
of Guilford, Vt. in the highway, near the door of Timothy’s house.
Orrin Packard. Once in the lodge in Cumberland, several officers
of the grand lodge present, heard Richard Anthony/one of those offi­
cers, speak of the death of Morgan; said he had no doubt of it, would
{
probably come out in print shortly, and he should read it in his faini-
y the same as any other print, and let it pass.
John Kent. Heard Henry Lord justify the murder of Morgan—
had attended the committee of his own accord, more or less every
day since they had been in session.
Henry Lord. Denies totally Kent’s story.
Barrington Anthony and Charles F. Searle. Heard A. Wilkinson
say, no doubt there had been five hundred men killed in that hall,
over the market in Providence.
Dr. B. W. Case. At the time of Morgan’s death all masons jus­
tified it ; don’t recollect any body in particular.- Never heaid any
mason belonging to his lodge justify it, but the contrary. Captain
Digitized by Google
47
George Howland told him that the royal arch chapter in Providence,
one night raised money to send to the western sufferers.
Samuel E . Gardner's letter explaining ' conversation with Abm.
Wilkinson.
George Howland. ♦Denies Dr. Case’s statement.
JSltchols Hazzard. Called to confirm Dr. Case’s account of Gapt.
Howland’s conversation. Does not recollect hearing Howland say
what Dr. C. states. Had heard a mason, (Mr. Henry Moore) say, he
did not believe a word about Morgan being murdered, and if he had
been it was no more than he deserved. Never heard any other ma­
son express such a sentiment. As to Moore’s being of reputable
standing did not know about that. He was asked if he had not on
many occasions, in presence of Mr. Moore, and to him charged ma­
sons with the murder of Morgan, and said that they justified it. He an­
swered that he did not know butl he might have said so, and did not
know as he had. Has had a good many disputes with Moore upon
such accusations. Asked if both he and Moore generally or often
got warm on those occasions; answered yes, I never knew Moore on
any occasion when any question was asked him, about the murder of
Morgan, but what he would answer warmly. He was asked if it was
on one of those occasions that Mr. M. had used the expression thaj
he had stated. #
Ans. No, it was not.
Moses Richardson. Present in general grand royal archchapter in New-
York, when news came of the abduction of Morgan. Dewit Clinton
Gov. presided, and next day offered a reward of $1,500, and it was
thought that that was enough.
John Hall, North Kingston. Heard Rev. Lemuel Burge justify itf
Rev. Lemuel Burge. Have never introduced conversation respect-4
'
ng Morgan, but having daily inmy walks heard declarations,and have
taken the ground laid down by the speaker, and raised interrogato­
ries as I did with J. Hall, viz. you believe so and so? I then asked him,
solely for the purpose of seeing what answer would be given, wheth­
er as a mason he was not guilty, and if guilty, whether he bad not
met the fate he justly merited? This is the ground I have uniformly
taken in order to avoid a declaration, or any thing that might lead
to a declaration of my opinion respecting the supposed death of
Capt. W. Morgan or his illustrations.
Willard Ballou. Received a paper folded in form of aletteryon
the inside was part of a single line in cyphers, translated to be, “ Re­
venge is sweet,” post marked M. U. Houses, was said to mean Mid­
dletown Upper Houses. Did not know whether it came from a ma­
son or antimason: all he knows is, that at the lodge one time, a mem­
ber asked if any body present had Morgans Illustrations.
Samuel S. Peckham. He was a member of the antimasonic con­
vention, and appointed on a committee. Has heard one mason only
justify the murder of Morgan, viz. James M. Tuell (block-maker) stf;
Capt. Vars’ shop. Tuell began about antimasonry. Witness told
him he had heard be had said that there were three or four men in
town who he wished were served as, they said Morgan was;. This
wa$ toljl to him by Thomas Sherman, and be thinks by Geo. Bowen.
*
Digitized by Google
48
Tuell denied this, and then said that if any man should do as Morgan
had done, he would deserve to have his throat cut; and that if any
•mfcn who belonged to a religious society should come off from it and
try to pull it down, he would deserve to be served the same way.
Witness met Tuell some days after and reminded him of what he bad
said about a church member. Tuell said that if he had said so it was
wrong,‘and he was sorry for it. u What Tuell said about Morgan ap­
peared to be his deliberate opinion.” [Was it more so than what he said
in the same breath and m connexion with it, about a church member;
and which he had forgot, but was sorry for it if he had said it.]
Capt. Vars. (Referred to by Peckhain.) He is not a mason, re­
members there was some conversation between them in his shop, but
know not what it was; no impression on his mind that Tuell saidany
thing that went to justify the murder of Morgan. T. observed that
there were some in Newport that deserved to be served the same way
as Morgan. This, he (witness) is sure of because he said to Tuefl,
u now you are going too far,” they (P. and T.) got quite earnest.
[Capt. Vars evidently makes a mistake in transferring to Tuell the
words used by Peckham, who swears it was he that told Tuell; he
heard he had said there were three or four in Newport who deserv­
ed, &c. &c. This Capt. Vars himself recollected when that part of
Peckham’s deposition was read to him, but did not recollect Tuell’s
answer, which Peckham says was a denial. As to the rest, Capt.
Vars heard no such conversation as Peckham imputes to Tuell.]
James Tuell. Recollects some conversation in Vars’ shop; but who
began it, or particulars of it he entirely forgot. He went in for some­
thing he wanted, was there but a few minutes, and went out as soon
as he got it; no recollection of ever saying there were three or four
persons in town who deserved &c. &c. Is sure he never thought so;
Peckham frequently came to his shop and endeavored to irritate him
about masonry. Peckham would tell him that if he and Robert Den­
nis did not renounce masonry, he (Peckham) would no longer con­
sider them as church members. They would both frequently get
very angry, and say very hard tilings to each other, which neither of
them meant. He told Peckham, several times that he did not wish
to talk with him any more upon that subject; wished he would drop
ft and talk about things more profitable, or not come to his shop.
Samuel S. Peckham. (called again.) In answer to a question, he said
that he had been a church member with Tuell and Robert Dennis,
and had left off communing*with them as church members, because
they deny what thousands have declared about masonry, and put
their names to it. And I therefore consider them as not acting up to
their professions.
George Bowen. (referred to by S. S. Peckham.) Has been in habit
of playing antiraason with masons, and mason with the anties, whatev­
er he has heard Tuell say oil the subject of Morgan was in that way,
and does not recollect ever hearing Tuell say there were three or
four in Newport who deserved to be served as they said Morgan was;
once, he thinks, he heard Tuell say that Morgan was served right;
Jbut it was when they were in a banter.
Thomas Shearman, (referred to by Peckham.) No recollection of
Digitized by Google
49
what was stated by Beckham. About the time tnat ainuuasonry first
came up, fireequeutly saw Peckbam add Tuell together; they woulft
both get high, and the witness and others would keep it on ; but
they always ended in good humour. Tuell is a man easily irritated ;
and the witness, and Geo. Bowen and others would work upon him
-until be would get into a passion; but after a while, be ceased to be
so operated upon, and they left him alone. He never considered
any thing that was said as being serious, nor can he now recollect
any thing about those conversations; it was all a piece of sport. Not
a mason nor anantimason.
Remarks.—In the preceeding summary of the evidence upon this
last branch of tike charges we have taken only the principal facts
contained in the twenty-six depositions referred to ; omitting such
details and minor circumstances as did not appear to be important ;
and could not materially affect the amount and character of the tes­
timony as here presented. This testimony is not of a, description
which requires us to dwell upon it. Aud it seems, moreover, that
the witnesses themselves have answered -one another.
It has been a very prominent and favourite charge, that the mur­
der of Morgan is sanctioned by the principles of the masonic institu­
tion—that masonry is every where the same and of course that all
masons who adhere to that institution and support its principles, are
Implicated in the c^ime of Morgan’s murder, and approvers of it. But
we have seen it incontestibly proved by the testimony that they con­
tain no such principles and warrant no such construction; ami that
the masons in this State acknowledge none such. Neither, in the
sense in which it is used in the charge, is there any truth in the as­
sertion that masonry is every where the same. No doubt it is essentially
the same in its signs of recognition, ceremonies of initiation, masonic
working or lectures, &c. &c. and this we believe is all that is meant
by De Witt Clinton and others when they say that it is every where
the same. For we have seen that the masonic obligations are mate­
rially and widely different in form, contents and substance, and it is
no more true that masonry, in character and practice, is the same
every where, than it is that Christianity is the same in practice and
construction in the hands of the thousand different religious sects.
If it had been there would have been no martyrs. When there­
fore a most offensive and criminating charge, which masons know to
be unfounded, has been brought against them to their faces and per­
sisted iii; however seriously denied; it would not have been surpris­
ing, if some, nay many of them had uttered declarations, which,
under other circumstances would be unjustifiable and perhaps
criminal. But for those persons, who have taken part in such con­
versations, and have probably, themselves called forth those im­
proper declarations by their own unfeeling conduct and unfounded
accusations;—for those to mark them down and con them over; to
go about reporting that such and such persons—their acquaintances
—perhaps their friends;—are justifiers of the murder of Morgan, and
claim fotf the institution to which they belong a power and jurisdic­
tion over life;—is furnishing but doubtful evidence of the purity of
their own principles or of the goodness of their heajts.
G
Digitized by G o o g l e
Wha* ♦‘lf-n, a: e we to th«i.. r*>,** pditiciatts ffiio M in ii them-
<
>
i such reports, a d e;.*: rr * c
*ly and industriously, sparing no
^ vr;;, or rri; v-l .j< r, after and collect them from all
tfuaiters; endeavoring to give to them the imposing character of evi­
dence; not for the purpose of using them against the individuals them­
selves; but for the purpose of giving countenance to necusatioos
striking at the reputations and principles of a large and respectable
class oi their feHow citizens !
Examination of a charge ofmurder, made and circulated against the Grand
Lodge of Rkod&Isiand.
dWoees Thacker. (Refers to his address to Grand Lodge for the fol­
lowing story.) A Mr. Sayles,-—says Thacher,—in the summer or au­
tumn of 1828, a gentleman or high standing, related these facts to
him, viz: “A. B. who lived in a back town of Rhode-lsland, made
C. D. a mason illegally. It leaked out, and A. B. happening to be in
Providence, was summoned before the grand lodge; be went and was
put out of the way so secretly that his friends thought he had abscond*
ed, and this was the general report. The manner in which this last
act was conducted he understood Mr. Sayles to he this. The grand i
lodge appointed certain resolute masons to act as executioners; who i
indicted upon A. B. the penally of his obligation and consigned his
body down the river. The narrator of these ^circumstances (Mr.
Sayles] expressed his regret that the Morgan affair had not been con­
ducted as secretly and thereby prevented all this noise and commo­
tion. As Mr. Sayles is called a man of honor be will not deny this
statement, there being abundant evidence that be has made the same
to several other persons. He will likewise doubtless be able to give
bis aothority, as I understood him that one of the parties concerned
was a relative of either himself or his wife. This affair was said to
have taken place several years ago. Felt an honest conviction of !
the truth of what he then stated. He placed reliance in the state­
ment. Had seen Sayles’ reply to him. Has never addressed Mr. 6.
on the subject except through medium of the press.' Did not, after
Sayles* reply to him, confer with the other persons, to whom be
says in bis address to grand lodge, Mr. Sayles had made the same
communication. Mr. Sayles did not name the person said to have
been murdered by the grand lodge. He,—witness,—did not com*
municmte what he had heard to the grand lodge immediately. [Had
an uncle in it.] He continued a mason four or five months after this.
[Nine months, he should say. His address to his church and con­
gregation was May 24, 1829, when he first seceded.] Has made tbs
same statement in a note to his address to his church and Congrega*
tion and in a speech in the antimasonio convention at Philadelphia.”
Caleb Sayles. Refers to his reply to and correction of Moses
Thaeher’s statement, dated Sept. 10th, 1831, and published in the
masonic Mirror and other newspapers. Corrects Tbacber’s state­
ment. The circumstances which, he agrees, he did relate to Tbach-
er were told to him by a brother in law at Watertown, N. Y. more
than twenty four years ago. Does not recolleet any names were giv­
en to him;, and the relation of the affair was such, at that time, as did
Digitized by Google
51
not make 90 deep au impression on iiis mind as to lead to any quest­
ions on the subject. Never stated that a man teas put out of the wayy
or secretly murdered by the grand lodge; or teas $
0secretly put out of the
way that hisfriends thought he had absconded, <£-c.; nor did he ever express
regret that the Morgan affair had not been conducted as secretly, tyc.
“My statement was,—says Mr. S.—that after the person had been
summoned by the lodge, as I understood it, he was missing, and that
bis friends thought he had absconded, and that this was the general
report.” That the assertion of Moses Thacher that he understood
from \Jr. Sayles “ that the grand lodge appointed certain resolute
masons who inflicted upon A. B. the penalty of his obligation and
consigned his body down the river,” is, every syllable of it, gratuitous. J
M l a single word of it teas ever uttered by him. Soon after conversing *
with Thacher, he went into the back towns, where it was said the
affair originated; and took much pains to ascertain the origin and
foundation of the story and could find nothing in corroboration ofit-
He saw there the elder brother of his informant, who had lived all his
days in the vicinity; but he had never heard of the story and did not
believe a word ofit. The name of his brother in law was Qplwin Smith.
Has inquired but never could ascertain the name of the man said to
have been murdered. Has heard during the examination that his
name was Smith.”
Mr. Thatcher, as appears from his deposition had twice before pub­
licly made a similar statement; once from his pulpit, to his church
and congregation, and once in a convention at Philadelphia. He did
not on either of those occasions name his author, but spoke of him
with respect and as “ an upright man.” In his address to the grand
iodge, for the first time, he named Mr Sayles; who immediately came
forward and refused to stand voucher for the story which Thachar
had circulated upon his authority.
Mr. Sayles, it appears, lives in Thaclier’s own town and neigh­
borhood; yet the latter never inquired of him, whether the horrid
account which he was about publishing, wholly upon his (Sayles9
)
authority, was a correct account of what be had heard Sayles, casu­
ally, relate almost a year before; nor, whether Sayles himself
had a sufficiently clear and distinct recollection of an old story,
which had more the appearance of a fable than a narrative of real
facts; to authorize a publication of the account, with a reference to
him as vouching for the correctness of it.
Neither does lie say that from the time he first heard it, he had
ever made any inquiries whatever for the purpose of ascertaining
whether, or not, it was entitled to any credit. But, without any oth­
er warrant than a vague “ wayside” story—a rumour of a rumour*—
and without concerning himself, in the lekst, about its consistency,
probability, truth or falsehood; he goes up into his pulpit, and delib­
erately, in the face of his church and congregation, accuses a number
of respectble citizens of an adjoining statey of the crime of murder.
Nothing could so strikingly show the high state of excitement, to
which many of the people of this man's senatorial district had, at
that time, been worked up, upon the mixed subjects of masonry and
politics, as the fact, that he should dare to resort to such outrageous
Digitized by Google
5t
tneaftfc of electioneering, even in the veiy pulpit a n d ,church conse­
crated to religion. * c ^ — ■
Believing that a charge of this character, proclaimed too, as it was, by
an ordained minister of the gospel, ought not to be too lightly passed
over,\ve will, before we finally dismiss this witness, show the differ*
6nt faces which he has, himself put upon it, in bis different publica­
tions. If he had not been conscious that the story in its1
aggravated
character was one of his own framing, he would have Called upon
Sayles and endeavored to have come to an explanation with bin.
And he would, certainly, have appealed for a confirmation of it, to
the two other persons, Dr. Pride and Rev. Luther Wright, towboat
he says Sayles had told the same story. Rut he confesses that he
made no application to any of them, after Sayles’ contradiction of
hii statement.
In his Philadelphia speech he says “They [the grand’lodge] had
certain resolute members appointed to take care of hftn. They did take '
care of him; they murdered him. And I was informed that he was
taken down the Providence River.” He merely amplifies thia a lit­
tle in his address. He there says; “The grand lodge appointed cer­
tain resolute masons to act as executioners, who inflicted trpon A. B.
the penalty of his obligation, and consigned his body down the liv- j
er.” But all this most material part of the charge, was added tdft, .
after his first publication of it, 4n his address to bis church and congre­
gation, which contains not a word of it. In his address to bid church
Alc. be says;. “ I have been informed by as many as three different ptr-
1m* (all masons) that a man was put out of the way, that is, secretly
murdered, a few years ago by the grand lodge ofa neighboring state.” :
'Thus he endeavored to have it believed by bis church andcosgre* 1
gation, and the people of his senatorial district, that the account of
a most shocking murder which he was giving to them, was vouched
by the confession of at hast three different masons. Whereas it appears
from his subsequent publications and from his deposition, that Mr.
Sayles was the only authority he had to refer to ;1and that the two
others whom he here brings in to make up his no less than three differ­
ent mtnessesy were only Dr. Pride and Rev. Mr. Wright, who tad
merely, like himself, heard Sayles’relation; and to whom he (Thach-
er) did not think it worth while to apply for help|after Sayles contra­
diction of his account. In his Philadelphia account he uses the names
Peter and Johny saying, “ I will use ficticious names,” leaving it to be
*understood by the convention that he was possessed of the real names
<of the parties: that is, the person made a mason irregularly, and the 1
mason who made him and was murdered for it: but did not wish to i
mention them. Circumstances, which if true, would give no air of
-reality to the story and much strengthen it. Whereas it appears by
their depositions that neither be nor Sayles knew any thing about
’the names of the supposed parties.
In his Philadelphia speech he says, “ In my neighbourhoodit hfcs been
said repeatedly, not by the least of the order, but by high priests and
^rkhd prelates, that if Morgan, had been put to death he had been
served rightly,9’ and his *address to grand lodge contained a similar
statement. Here in a public assembly abroad, lie makes a charge
Digitized by Google
of a highly criminal character, and affecting the reputation of his
principal neighbors at home: and by his manner of relating it im«
presses it upon the assembly that the facts he states are within his
own persona] knowledge. But when questioned in his deposition,
and asked to give the names of those neighbors, he replied “ I had
not heard myself any mason express such an opinion; 1 made that
assertion in my address from information derived from others upon
whom I thought I could rely. / stated it as any other historicalfact.'T
He does not however name a single person from whom he had, even
second hand, these unfavorable accounts of his most respectable
neighbors.
As wicked and inhuman as was this infamous charge of murder, so ♦
industriously and widely propagated by this witness, and by means of
which, if it had been in his power, he would have blasted the char­
acters and destroyed the peace of a number of respectable citizens
and of their families; yet we must recollect that there were men even
in this State who were bad and base enough to make all the use o f
it, and to give it all the credit and currency in their power. The
same men, on the late examinations before the committee; althoughr
compelled at last to confess that there was no foundation for the sto­
ry; clung, to the scandal as long as there was any hope of giving any
countenance or colour to it. And for this purpose they produced
several witnesses the substance of whose testimony we proceed to
give.
Ray Potter. Rev. Moses Thacher called on him and showed him
a letter he had received from somebody in Maine or New Hampshire.
Contained injunction to conceal the name. Writer had seen in news­
papers Thacner’s account of the murder of a man by the grand lodge.
The same of the person illegally made a mason was D. C. Smith; he.
now resides in N. T. and is brother in law of Caleb Sayles, and has
a brother in Burrillville or Glocester. ’Twas about thirty years ago.
Writer wanted to obtain the name of the person who mtodo the
mason. Witness was asked if, from all he found in that letter* and
all that Thacher added he came to the conclusion or belief that any
such' murder bad. been committed. He answered that he did not
come to any such conclusion. Asked if he had frequently and pub-
Kcly circulated these circumstances now related. Answered that ho
had spoken of them a number of times; for he had his fears and sus­
picions that the murder was committed. uJ\fy reasons mrethat 1knm
Ike penalty ofthe oath tobe death, and if maems thoughtit rightto annexsmh
•a penaMy, they might think right to inflict it.1
' [Here we find that, he
joined Thacher in circulating a story which he confesses-he did not
believe, and in the next breath to justify this Conduct, he pretends
that he did Have his fears and suspicions that tbh murder was ebsuk*
ted; and again, to reconcile this to his disbelief of the facts, he says
-that hi3 fears &c. Were derived from the penalty of the oath.] Ask-
• ed if be thought that an anonymous letter ought to be received by
"any man as evidence of murder; especially when the man who shows
it is committed and deeply interested by having*been himself the.
• author of the charge. Answered that be thought not. Don’t reddl-
*
‘hct any conversation whh lfr. Thacher about the murder, or the
IS
Digitized by b o o g i e
H
fcifCUnistance* of«itt4 r who Ofcre peotoWy coftcei:aed. Asked if b?
toad* aay inquiries about the story and circumstance* he bad been cir-
oulititig. He replied he did not; for he did not know where to if**
quire [Yet he gives the name and residence of fhrt nrifinjnptymdj
ash* or she letter says, to have been made a mason; says be i d l i j
brotWr.su law oi Caleb Sayles,. and bad a brother living in BurruP
ville or Glocester. Thacher kept his thumb over the name of the
writer* He (witness) endeavored to see the name, and did see the
Christian name. Thacher appeared willing he should see part of. the
name. Thacher was shortly after a candidate for the Senate of
sachusetts. [Not a word was said by Thacher in his own deposi-
tiomof this pretended letter. And although he has long brought sqpoa
himaelfthe imputation of having been guilty of fabricating a.ijji)i<g,|f|r
cunbtioa of murder; yet be has never (from any thing tbat appefppfc}
ariceo ttotestimoay of the:pretended letter writer; nor avaued him-
satfoftto^iaforin&tion contained in the letter; nor applied to any ftf
»
the persons there pointed out to him.] V -
Jem Bmwn, of Cumberland. [Great earnestness was maptfe$ted
togeft the testimony of this witness and the next one (Lewis C.
-Brown, of Smithfield.) They, not having readily appeared upon the
usual written request from the committee being served upon them, a
^peremptory summons was applied for to compel their attendance,
•which was grunted and served by an officer. Their examinations prill
show the efforts that were made by those who brought them, to get
samothiog out of them, which by giving some countenance to the
might save it from falling to the ground and becomix^
useless.] Witness, in answer to question by J. S. Harris, said, it
sms reported, that J. Follet was clandestinely rn&de a ma^op by one
uAdams, of Mass, a transient person: that Follet was afterwards regii-
Jarly admitted. Transaction generally known inCumberland. Ask­
ed by J. S. Harris if he knew that M um was called upon by the lodge
Jbr wkokhe had dom. “ Did you understand thatIhe lodgeor masons (ask-
tod J. 8. Harris) had any thing to do with his going away, or paid m y
'4kmg towards his removal?” Ans. “ I never understood that tto lodge
im masons had any thing to do with said Adams’going away: I upder-
•Otood that several masons conversed with him on the subject, and
edskeri him why he had done so; and be replied, that he did it to get
Amdsto remove himself and family: this was more than twenty years
oogb.?’ Quest, by J. S. Harris* “ Have you not frequently said or
fabought there was something wrong about this transaction, so far as
Jinasonry was oooebrned?” Ans. “ I have not; I have thought and
J«aid that Adame did wrong to, get Follet’s money in that way.” [Thus
he*witness is almost begged to furnish some little, ever so little, cir-
-Jmnmtaaoei^-)A< eaidto, or A. thought so, even to relieve the distjfess-
zw&ofthese who, being obliged to give up the glaring charge of aaur-
Aor, could not bear the idea of being deprived of all pretexts for con-
vtfiduiog, at least, tbeir surmises and insinuations against the reputation
«of su m of the most esteenped and respected witnesses of the very
9*owit:an*which their assailants themselves live.]. Quest* by W/n.
•{Harris* ftHave you beardfrom Mrs. Follet’s family, ,or any.om.else,
^respecting a stranger who hoarded there going away suddenly, and
1 Digitized by Google
M
ofMrs. F’*. discovering bioodoa bisetothing?” &c. Am ... «***
or did.”
i£ewft C. Brew*. Was asked by iboee who produced him, about*
man’s having obtained degrees in masonry illegally; who«t w*s$ wbw
gave ttad degrees; what btcOim ofthe mm; where wee he tried? An*.
u N& sack ease ever came withiii my knowledge.” Quest. “ Has#
you reason to believe that such a case did happen? Aos. uNq”~~
his heard the Foilet story and relates it; wee well acquainted with
Mr. Foilet. His brother Fenner Brown married one of FoUet’s
daughters. He (witness) was from twenty to twenty, five yearseld
when Foilet died. Never heard bins (Foilet) say he had been clan*
dfestitoely made k mason or that any one bad suffered on biaaccouat*
Asked, what bas been represented by Follet’s family as to his state
of Ssind when in his last sickness. An*. Never heard there was any
change inhis mind or that be said any thine about any stranger. [Quf*»
turns were asked him similar to tbat put by Was. Harris ia last depo­
sition, but the inquiries amounted to nothing.]
Stimuli Young. Heard a rumor about two years ago about one
Thomas H. or S. Smith being murdered in St. John’s lodge in Prov­
idence, never heard m y other suohirumor and supposes it the same
as Moses Thacker’s. Acquainted with Smith’s -wife, who has told
him her husband had absconded. Smith formerly lived in Qiocea-
ter. Asked by J. S. Harris if he ever heard her say that her hus­
band bad been summoned before the lodge; was not her maiden name
Bowen; and was not Bowen a high mason? Ans. Nevetfvbeagdhut
say her husband was so summoned; Bowen, was her hither, but
whether a mason or not don’t kaow.
Thonttur TruesdeU. Heard same report as S., Young. He knew
Smith well. There was a story that in 1821, (thinks)* he started, to
come to Providence from Glocester and had been robbed* and it was
feared hehad been made way with by robbers; considerable inquiry
was 'made about him and it was reported tbat his horse end waggon
had been fotrad in Cranston or Johnston. The belief was afterwards
that he had gone to Ohio or Kentucky. He (Smith) was owing the
firm of Wheaton & Ttuesdell about five hundred dollar*; informed
by Jesse Tourtellot that Smith was seen by his partner Mr. Wilder
near Cincinnati; sent our account out to be collected. . Mr. Wilder
wbo was brought op near Smith and knewhim well, told, witness
that be'afterwards had seen Smith in New-Orleans; and, was>sure it
was he though he tried to shun him. Witness is not e mason.
These are all the charges which have appeared, in the various pub-
ligations devoted to that object, against freemasonry and masons in
tbia State. The committee; agreeably to their instructions; have
eaneftdly examined them all; and the result of their investigation's
here presented; together with the whole of the testimony taken by
them.
'The <^mtnittee, durmg the eaafninatioo, cotlld mot avoid (avid did
not wish to avoid) feeling an iaterest ie thei»putalieos.of the large
toiTespcctabte classof dim fellow ekiriens, who bad been so loqg
held up fo puhiie view; endy a desire that (they might net be found
deserving of the degrading charges circulafted^egmnrt^fceafc' They
Digitized by Google
have no apprehensions that their participating in that common inter- 1
est which the community itself always takes in the reputation of its
members* will subject them to the censure of the General Assembly,.
or the disapprobation of their fellow citizens. That they were not
led by this, or any other consideration to show any undue favor to
masons: on the contrary, that an extreme indulgence and licence,
even, was extended to those who had propagated; and of course
were responsible for the charges under examination;—the deposi*
tions themselves will manifest.
The opinions of the committee have already been expressed upon
these charges as they severally came under examination. They are
unsupported by the evidence;—nay, they are clearly proved to be
wholly unfounded.
With respect to the masonic institution itself, we believe that in
its principles, it was originally good; and that as it is still understood
and practiced upon in this State, it cannot be called had, much less j
criminal. That we are correct in this opinion we think might be
clearly shown from the antimasonic books themselves. But without
dwelling upon this point, there is one fact which we think ought to
be conclusive with every candid and rational man. Some, nay, very
many, of the greatest and best men which this or any other country
ever produced, have been long adhering and approving members of I
masonic institutions. |
Some persons have strenuously endeavored to have it understood !
that masonry was denounced by President Washington. The fact
was not so. His letter of September 25th, 1798, to Mr. Snyder,
was merely written to correct the error of his friend in supposing I
that he then presided over the English lodges in this country. In |
doing this he mentions that he had not been in a lodge more that
once or twice within the last thirty years; and he adds: “ I believa 1
notwithstanding none of the lodges in this country are contaminated
with the principles ascribed to the society of the illuminati.” It
would be paying a poor compliment to President Washington, to saJ
that he knew the masonic institution of which he was a member, tt
be criminal, dangerous, or bad in any way, and that he yet did not
withdraw from it. All that can be said about it is, that he had lon|
ceased to take an interest in attending upon lodges; which we knop
is the case with very many who still retain a good opinion of the prirt*
ciples of masonry. Dr. Franklin was, we are informed, at the head
of the first lodge (grand|lodge we believe) introduced into Philadel­
phia.
Cadwallader D. Colden may be mentioned, because he is high aih
thority with antimasons, and is respected also by masons, a great
many of whom approve of his sentiments, though not themselves sp­
eeders. He was long an adhering mason, took his thirty-third dp-
1free, and officiated in some of its highest offices; and it was aerer
1nis opinion that in the principki of masonry there was any thing
wrong. Numerens instanoes might also be mentioned of men wbo
have been among the brightest examples of piety* Christian meek­
ness and wisdom, and who yet have been long approving masons, end
taken the highest degrees.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
•
We have been surprised, we epnfess, that grave and tirise nwa
(such for instance as the Bishop Griswold, and the late Dr. Gano)
could submit to what would seem to be frivolities in the masonic cer­
emonies; but when we come to look into the aatimasonio books, we
find those ceremonies, even there, explained in a manner to render
them unexceptionable and even impresssive. For instance; the blaz­
ing Star is explained in the lectures as “commemorativeof the Star which
appeared in the east, to guide the wise men to Bethlehem, to proclaim the
Ufth and presence of the Son of Qod” In like manner also are explain­
ed the emblems of the spade, coffin* death-head, marrow bones and
sprig of cassia which are so perpetually kept before our eyes in an*
tiraasonic books and almanacs, for the purposes of deception. Fo^
instance, the emblem of the sprig of cassia is thus explained in the
lecture in Bernard’s book. “ The sprig of cassia is emblematical of
that immortal part of man which never dies, and when the cold win­
ter of deaelh shall have passed and the bright summer’s morn of the
resurrection appears, the Son of Righteousness shall descend, and
send forth his angels to collect our ransomed dust,” &c.
Upon the whole, we must come to the conclusion that in the gen­
uine original principles of masonry there is nothing objectionable.
But that its principles have, in some places become wholly corrupt­
ed; that the institution has been abused to an alarming degree; and
that it is an institution liable to be abused and to become dangerous;
—
ofall this we are perfectly convinced; as we shall more fully man­
ifest before we close this report.
The committee have not deemed it proper to extend their inquiry
to the aceusations against freemasons in other states; and we have
therefore not authorized any depositions to be taken out of this State.
We would however notice a statement, in the form of a letter dated
at New-York, purporting to have been written by Jarvis F. Hanks
and sworn to, which was presented to the committee. This state­
ment contains the opinions of the writer on the subject of the ma­
sonic obligations, and also charges of a criminal natur^, against ma­
sons in New-York; these charges are improbable upon the face of
them, and if untrue are grossly libellous. Besides if the charges
were founded in fact it was the duty of Mr. Hanks as a citizen to
make them known to the civil authority of New-York, that the ac­
cused migot be prosecuted for the offences and confronted with their
accuser. As the character and standing of Mr. Hanks is unknown
to us, and we have had no opportunity of examining him ourselves;
weshould do an act of injustice to x>ur fellow citizens of New-York
to publish these charges.
The affidavits of Taber, Corey and Philip Chace of Troy, Mass,
relative to the masonic obligations in Bernard’s Light on Masonry,
tod of Philip Peck of New-Serlin, N. Y. relative to the New-Berlin
trial, were presented to the committee, but as these affidavits con­
tain nothing important to our inquiry and were taken without our di­
rection, we do not think it proper to publish them. And it must be*
obvious, that if we were to receive testimony of this character, it
would lead to an interminable inquiry; without producing any satis­
factory result. ,
Digitized by Google .
The authori ofth$foregoing chargee and their objects.
The committee have still an important part of their duty to per*
form* Here have been a number of highly criminal and scandalous
charges, aimed at the characters of a large class of the most respec­
ted citizens in the State, published and republished in newspapers,
pamphlets and hand-bills; and unceasingly propagated; with the de­
clarations that the propagators held themselves prepared to sub­
stantiate them;—all which charges, when fully examined, although
every effort has been made to sustain them; have turned out to be
totally false. Who are they that have done this work, and what have bm
their objects? It has no appearance of being the work of mere hot­
headed zealots, or tbe offspring of private malice. It cannot be so
accounted for.
The character of the charges, on the face of them, is that of cold
blooded calculation and design. And when the uniform conduct of
those concerned in them, and the additional facts which will present­
ly be stated, are looked into and considered; there cannot be a doubt
what that design has been:—that in fact, it was and is no other than
a design to prevent masonry from going down or being given up;—
to excite and lash masons into resistance and action, and by contin­
ually threatening them with the ballot-box and the press, to compel
them in self defence to organize themselves into a political party: the
effect of which, it was well known, would be to bring out and ar­
ray antimasons as a political party (which they were not until lone
after these intrigues were commenced) in opposition to them. And
then, in the state of commotion which would ensue, in the conflicts
of the two parties; these agitators would have a prospect of rising
into importance and power; which such characters could never hope
for from the cool judgment of the people.
Most certainly tnese are not the objects of any considerable num­
ber of political antimasons. We want no better proof that they are
not, than tbe fact that these objects, and the means by which they
are pursue^ are devoid of all principle—moral and political. For
we do sincerely believe that a great majority of political antimasons
want nothing more than that masonry should be discontinued, and
would be perfectly satisfied if tbe masons themselves would discon­
tinue it:—Detter satisfied, indeed, than they would be in putting it
down forcibly; which, if it could be done, would be productive of
irritation and resentful feelings which would not soon subside.
We are equally confident that there is no political antimason, who
is also a moral antimason, (and there can be no honest antimason who
is not,) who has had any hand or agency in the flagitious charges m
question. Charges (some of them) imputing tbe crimes of murder
and the justification of murder to an extensive class' of highly es­
teemed citizens. No; they, every man of them, will and do con­
demn such profligacy as strongly and decidedly as do the rest of the
community. But, they must then be sensible that there is among
• them a set of men, calling themselves political antimasons, and act­
ing a conspicuous part in the party; with whom, in character, in
principles, motives and objects they can have no fellowship; and to
whom they ought not to give any manner of countenance. Nor will
Digitized by Google
5»
they, we are persuaded, when they become better acquainted with
their designs.
There is no difference in principles between moral and political
tntima9ons. They all equally wish that the masonic institutions
should be discontinued. And for a longtime there was no difference
inopinion among them as to the means. They relied upon the influ*
ence which the common sense and wishes and sentiments of the
whole community would have upon the masonic fraternity. And
they were certainly right in these calculations. That influence, al­
ways powerful, would probably long ago, have had the desired ef­
fect, had it not been counteracted by the arts of those who bad dif­
ferent ends to answer. It has been by the efforts of those persons
that a portion of the moral antimasons have been drawn off from their
brethren. The sole object of these persons is to make a speculation
and profit out of masonry and arttimasonry. But as they claim to be
antimasons, though their objects and principles are totally different
from, nay, the reverse of those of both the other classes of antima-
sons, we find it necessary, for the purpose of distinguishing them, and
that no mistake may be made in the application of our further re­
marks, to designate them by some appropriate name or title, and as
we do not readily think of any more characteristic, we shall call
them Speculative antimasons.
It must not be understood that this class of speculating politicians
is acting at its own discretion, or pursuing its own plans, without
connexion with or dependance upon others. It is quite the contra­
ry. It forms but an unimportant member, comparatively, of an ex^
tensive fraternity of speculative antimasons, which has been organ­
ized and established by the far reaching politicians of another State;
who alone could ever have conceived the idea of bringing about a
connexion between politics and antimasonry. By those politicians,
the universal excitement, the deep sensation of abhorrence and in­
dignation which were produced by'the tragical scenes that had been
acted in the western parts of that State, were marked only with an
eye to the use that might be made of them. They calculated, (as
the capacity of a steam engine is calculated,) what would be the
amount of the available power and force of the popular impulse, then
at its height; could it be kept up, concentrated, regulated and ap-
S
lied to political uses. And, having satisfied themselves of its suf-
ciency, they, (without the slightest participation' in the common
impulse) put themselves forward into the front ranks of antimason­
ry, where they speedily drowned the voices of the real, moral anti­
masons, and took their places; by their loud denunciations of mason­
ry and masons; their lamentations of the murder of Morgan; their
discoveries, or prophecies of new and monstrous crimes,' plots and
conspiracies, against the safety and rights of their fellow citizens,
and the liberties of the country. Every where they were foremost
in advocating the cause of antimasonry; the people’s cause.
In short, there were no bounds to the arts which those deep-read
politicians put in practice, to keep up and increase the popular ex­
citement. And, so far, their efforts were attended with no difficul­
ties. There was just and ample cause for those excitements—a cause
Digitized by Google
but too real. The only occasion they had for the exercise of their
skill, was in concentrating the popular impulse and giving it the &
rection which their purposes required it should take. And this was
an easy performance for such adepts. They knew that popular in­
dignation is never satisfied with being felt and expressed merely. It
must act; must have an object to act upon;—a sensible object to
feel its weight. The object upon which they intended from the
beginning the attack should be made, was, as we have long ago seen,
the whole body of the masons, without discrimination.
The actual perpetrators of the murder of Morgan they concerned
themselves but little about, and only made use of for the purpose of
coupling with them, and implicating in their guilt, the whole masonic
fraternity, without regarding who were innocent or who guilty.
And believing that their plans were sufficiently matured to receive
the finishing stroke, and that those upon whom they had been ope­
rating, were ready for action; they began to explain to them that
the only way in which they could reach their enemies, the masons,
and make them feel their indignation and their power was, tovolt
against them;—“ to votiTthem down.” And not only the masons;
but to vote down all others who would not join them in voting down
the masons.
Here was a full disclosure of their plans and their objects. They
knew, perfectly, that to pursue with hostility a whole and an exten­
sive, respectable and influential class of people, indiscriminately, and
without caring whether they were innocent or guilty, would he rank
persecution; and would, as persecution forever has done all over the
world, not only produce, but justify resistance and opposition. And,
that, instead of weakening or breaking down the masonic institution,
it would be the certain means of strengthening, if not of perpetuating.
them. And this was the primary object of their labors. They knew i
that unless the masons could be excited and driven into opposition
and others with them; unless from this beginning a new state of par- |
ty warfare could be brought about, in which the whole public should
be led or driven to embark—all their hopes of a profitable, if not a
brilliant political career, would be frustrated.
Selfish and unprincipled as such designs evidently were, it had be-
come really doubtful whether these political speculators in masonry
and antknasonry, had any desire, longer to disguise them. They
manifested apprehensions lest they should be supposed to limit their
views to mere masonry and masons; which, instead of being their
objects, were the means only which they employed to aid them in
their ulterior views. They gave it to be understood that they were
not a mere antimasonic party; but were a political party, with as
high pretensions as any other political party, and in proof of this,
they soon made it manifest that they aspired to possess themselves
of the reins of government, not only of the State, but of the United
States.
Politicians of the character we are describing discard all concern
about the opinion of the world as soon as they have, or think they
have a good prospect of success. So it was with these. They knew
that their real designs were participated in by many; that there were
§0
Digitized by Google
ma»y others who would fall into the ranks if convinced they were go­
ing over to the stronger side; and that, besides all these, there were
many honest antimasons who bad fixed tbeir eyes so strongly end
steadily upon the masons, their mortal enemies; they had been made
to believe that they could see nothing else; were past all reflection,
and only waited, impatiently for the words—
-present—jure.
The words of cbmmand they did receive from their leaders were
quite as inspiriting. “ To the polk—to the polk”—the ballot— the
ballot-box;” were the cabalistic phrases of the political magicians,
and were reiterated in every harangue and address, and emblazoned
in every antimasonic newspaper.
It is believed by politicians that there are certain words or phras­
es which contain in them a charm much more potent than any rea­
soning. Such a charm the phrase (C
the ballot-box ahd the press,”
issupposed to contain, ana great use was accordingly made of it by
the speculative antimasons. “ The ballot-box and the press;”—meaning by
the latter, the presses under their management, in which they in­
structed their followers in the virtues and uses of the uballot-box
and, finally brought them to the conclusion that the only sovereign
remedy and cure for masonry; the only certain means of rendering
antioaasonrytriumphant; was to confer upon them and their adlier«
eats, all the principal public offices;—all the chief places and posts of
honor and endowment. Not that they were ambitious, or at all de­
sirous of holding offices. Far from it. They would only consent
to take them for safe keeping; and that they might not get into the
dangerous hands of the masons, or of those who would not help to
vote down the masons.
Thus, feelings originally pure and genuine; feelings of the heart—
spontaneous, natural and honorable to humanity—were worked upon
by selfish, unfeeling politicians, until they became an impure politi­
cal fermentation, and were prostituted to the vile purposes of party.
This we believe to be a correct outline of the history and charac­
ter of speculative, political antimasonry. We have taken it at its
source, because a description of it there is a description of it in this
and the other states, as far as it has yet reached. For what has been
said of masonry, that it is the same every where, is infinitely more ap­
plicable to speculative antiraasonry. The present society has not
only given the tone and stamp to the subordinate, minor fraternities
in other states, but as it would seem, has initiated them into its mys­
teries, and instructed them in the mode of working. And so closely
have those provincial fraternities copied after and followed the in­
struction anti example of their leaders, tLat they have disregarded all
differences of situation, circumstances, character and state of society.
This may be seen in the character of the charges we have just been
considering, in which we find that the whole body of the masons in
this State are treated as if they were the same' description of people
as the masons in the western parts of New-York, who were implicat­
ed in the outrage committed there. But some of our New England
fraternities have carried their initiations many steps too far for tbeir
own credit and characters. *Finding to what great political account
the murder of Morgan had been turned out in the hands of the New-
Digitized by Google
York politicians, they have been foolish and depraved enough to eo-
deavor to get up a few murder scenes in their own States, to be tra?
ded upon in the same Way. How the exhibition was managed in this
State and what it come to, we have already seen; and whoever may
wish to see a few more clumsy attempts at the same kind of exhibi­
tions, may gratify his curiosity by looking into the proceedings of
the Massachusetts antimasonic convention held in Boston in May
last, which we have already referred to, and shall again presently
have occasion to consult.
It was long before speculative antimasonry could find any counte­
nance in this State. And at last, as woare informed, it was introduc­
ed here directly from the State in which it originated.
The sober minded people of this State will judge whether it is pru*
dent, wholesome or safe, for us to have much to do with either the
politics or politicians of thatJState; or to give much countenance to
i a fraternity which is either secretly or openly in connexion with, or
f subordinate to a similar, but rfmch more powerful and extensive po­
litical association. '
That all these fraternities of speculative antimasons are acting, se­
cretly and understanding^, under the same discipline, have one and
the same object—that of obtaining office and power, by creating
themselyes into an exclusive political party; and that they are every
where making use of the same means to effect their object. That is,
are doing every thing fn their power to prevent the masonic institu­
tions from being discontinued; and to provoke and drive the mason9
into an opposition party, without which they cannot themselves ex­
ist as a party: all this is manifested in their whole proceedings.
Instead of addressing themselves to the understandings or patriot-
sm of the masons, instead, of employing argument or persuasion with
.hem, they have made every possible effort to outrage their feelings;
have loaded them incessantly with abuse and crimination, accusing
.them with all manner of crimes, and treating them throughout in such
a manner as, it was hoped and believed, would put it out of their
power to surrender tne masonic institutions without impliedly ack­
nowledging criminality.
Nor can there be anv doubt, that if they had it in their power, they
would proceed tp disfranchise this class of their fellow-citizens. In
the Massachusetts antimasonic convention before mentioned, it was
recommended that a statute he passed to disqualify masons from set­
ting on juries in cases where one of the parties'is a mason and the
other not. Another of their recommendations was that the antima-
sonic presses should be exclusively patronised, and other presses dis­
countenanced.- And, furthermore, that an antimasonic “ Tract.Society,
with auxiliary branches,”should be established, and funds created, to be
“ raised from small contributions among the people, which, pouring their
streams into ageneralreservoir, willenable a committeetostereotype,” fyc. fyc.
That the suppression of masonry is not their object—that the con­
trary is, in fact their object, is evident from another fact. What Berr
nard, the seceding mason, says in his antimasonic book, viz. “ that a
very small proportion of masons ever advance any further than the
third degree,” is undoubtedly true. There are thousands of masons
(■*v£,,
Digitized by Google
l
i
I
,
\
6S
who, (like President Washington) although they hare seen nothing
in the principles of masonry to disapprove of, have taken no interest
in Rs ceremonies, have for many years ceased to attend lodge meet*
ings and now, probably, think that under all circumstances, the insti­
tution had better be abolished. Yet all these are involved in the
persecution of political (speculative) antimasons, equally with the
most active adhering mason.
Again, these politicians know that it would not be enough to ex­
cite and stir up the masons. It was equally necessary that others
should be stirred up and brought to act against them; otherwise there
would be no party warfare. And to bring this about they have bold­
ly and incessantly declared and proclaimed, that the masons had al­
ready taken the field; and that, in fact, they always had been a secret
political combination, having an eye to and engrossing all the chief
Eublic offices. Part of this is proved to be a sheer fabrication even
y-the testimony of all the seceding masons themselves; and whoev­
er will take the trouble to look into the schedules, or public journals
of the Legislature, will find that part of it which relates to the public
offices, to be equally unfounded.
But there is another difficulty which these people have had to en­
counter, which has proved nearly insurmountable even in the state of
New-York itself, the very hotbed of speculative political antimasonry.
It is apparent that the masons alone even >if they could be driven to
act as a political party, (which in this state, at least, they never yet
have done, and we hope, will not;) would not, as respectable as they
m&y be, and influential as many individuals among them are, would
not, of themselves form a party sufficiently comprehensive to answer
the object in view. For, they might act as a party, and every man
of them might be excluded from office; and yet the reigns of govern­
ment remain in the same hands they already were in; that is, in the
bands.of national republicans, moral antimasons, in whom the people
might continue to place their confidence, without perceiving the
necessity of transferring it to the speculative political antimasons.
Here then was the great obstacle. The moral antimasons are in
their way, and always must be, as long as they pursue their present
upright course. This accounts for their antipathy to them; which
is probably stronger and much more sincere, than that which they
feel towards the masons themselves. To remove this obstacle out
of their way, we see them laboring to identify the moral antimasons
with the masons, and treating them as if they formed a party togeth­
er. And thus it is that they apply to them (the moral antimasons)
the most vituperative and even low and scurrilous epithets. In short,
they openly avow that they will recognize but twcrparties in the
country; themselves forming one and the masons the other.
Upon this principle it was, if principle it can be called, that they
opposed Gov. Lincoln, although he avowed himself to be moral an­
timason; they are opposing Mr. Clay also, who, they knew, had
withdrawn himself from masonry. And now they are, with great vio­
lence, opposing the national republican administration in this state,
although the head of the prox, and every one of the senators are deci­
ded moral&ntimasons, as are also nearly the whole of house ofrepre-
M Digitized by Google
64
sentatives; there being, we believe, not more than six or seven id*
hering masons in that whole body. And, according to the same prin­
ciple, if president Washington himself was now living, and a candi- 1
date for office, these speculative, political antimasons would oppose
him. Thus it is that to serve their own party ends, they take upon
themselves to organize society itselfanew, by forcibly arranging and
classing, willing or unwilling, the whole community into two political
divisions. The means employed to effect this object, are, as we
have seen, in accordance with its character.
But there is one design entertained and practiced upon, at least by
some of them, which \s so profligate in its conception, and would be
so dreadfully pernicious in its effects, that we must not omit to no­
tice it. That design is to create a deadly feud among the whole peo*
pie, by carrying the torch of discord into their churches and religions
societies.
We find by the proceedings of the same Massachusetts antimasonic
convention, that a committee was appointed by that body, “to mquin
whether intelligent Christians or churches can knowingly fellowship with
freemasonry or Us adhering members, without becoming accessaries after the
fa c t; thus participating in the horrid crimes o f which the the masonic inditur
tio n is proved gu ilty ft And the following extracts are taken from the
report of that committee to the convention, viz: “ Your committee
proceed to say that they are totally unable to discover how anyan*
derstanding Christian, or any church of the Lord Jesus Christ, organ*
ized on gospel principles, actuated by a gospel spirit, and walking by
gospel rules, can consistently with their duty hold any fellowship
whatever with the masonic institution, or with its adhering members
end supporters.” uEvery organized church possesses in herself the
power of her own purification and preservation. The sword of the
spirit is in her own hands, and under the direction of her Lord, she
can and ought to separate from her body, every incorrigible member
of the masonic fraternity. She is invested with the" power of rfiftt-
pliney which affords an ample remedy for this great and sore evil”!
The report breathes the same spirit throughout; yet it was referred
b y the convention to their publishingxommittee, who say of it, that
Rafter careful examination [they] believe it to be a valuable document
and deserving of extensive circulation!”
And this spirit of intolerance has not vented itself in words merely.
We find it raging and fomenting bitter strife and discord in the bosom
of the church, m North Wrentham, Mass., and ending only in tbs
separation of its members; part of them fthe minority) with the m
in*
ister, Mr. Moses Tbacher, withdrawing from the old church and es­
tablishing a new oafe. Among the reasons assigned by them for this
measure, we find the following, viz: “We are bound then, by the
principles and spirit of the gospel, to disfellowship not only freema­
sonry, but freemasons, so long as they adhere to that antichristian in­
stitution; and in consideration that there are in your church seven
freemasons, and others wflo appear determined to remain in league with
them;” &c. &c. going on upon this ground to justify their separation.
Had they been the majority, iustead of a minority, they would of
course* have excommunicated all the other members; not only those
Digitized by Google
who wfre masons, but the rest, because they would net agree to dfs'
jkOomUp the mesons. Thus is the church end religion itself, to be
prostituted to the furtherance of political party purposes. Is this
the way to put down masonry? Does it manifest any intention of
desire that it should go down.
A pious divine, and a sincere moral antimason, in a letter to Mr.
Thacher upon the occasion of those unhappy difficulties, thus ad­
dresses himself to that gentleman: “ There are in all or in many of
our churches, members, who although they'belong to the masonic
institution, profess to know nothing acout maaohry, sucbaS you have
revealed it, and their whole lives bear testimony, that in all their in-i
tercourse with the church and whh the world, they hare always
acted on principles diametrically opposite to those'which you call
masonic.” “ And yot our churches are to*be called upon to disci­
pline these members for crimes which they detest and abhor; and
they must acknowledge that their view of masonry is such as you
have represented, or be excommunicated.” “ Sir, I am sick at
heart of these pretences to particular purity and zeal. They cafry
with them but contention, noise and war.”
■
' We hare mentioned, in another part of this report, that, during
the examination in Providence, a design was forayed and-manifested
W-eertnin persons, to frustrate the object which the General Assent
bly had in view in instituting the investigation. The following addW
tional circumstances will place that fact beyond a doubt. Mr. W.
Wilkinson was the first masonic witness who was called upon'for adis^
closure of the masonic obligations. He Vas before the committee the
whole ofTuesday, thesixthday of their sittings When soniequesttaud
(handed in by antimasons) were pht to him respecting '"Sortie of the*
masonic signs, or ceremonies* orsymbols, lie declined answering', lay­
ing that be had been assured by the chairman, that the cortirtlittfce
would not require the masons to answer such questions. 1 He
confirmed in this by the chairman, who then stated publicly^ the ride
which the committee had agrrod upon, as already mentioned. ! He
staled further that, unless the rnason§ should prove to the contrary,
the committee should take it for granted, and report accordingly,''
that the masonic secrets or mysteries were fully and correctly die*
closed in the antimasonic books of Bernard andfAllyn, as the secede
ing masons had testified. This appeared to be perfectly satisfactory
to every body; and the examinations of the masonic witnesses went;
on quietly in conformity to the rule thus stated, without‘tbe teas*
appearance of dissatisfaction, through the whole of tliat day audffb’
e
■ext, until*evening. ' *
antimasonic newspaper of Wednesday we find the following
ootiee^ viz: “ Six t o Dat.*
—T he legislative fcdmmittee'-cbotiiHied
tbaimnvestigOJlforo relative to masonry, yesterday, it being the sixth
ddyltheyttorb asskfobusty demoted to the inquiry. Messrs: Hazard,
taM4k,'Haiie and >
Sprague were present. The ‘
whole day wafe oc-
aapiwbin' the 'examifwitioa of WllHato WilkmOGn, Esq.> a citizen of
highfTeaptethbtny and the oldest' royal trch ’
masomra the state,1*
W ilkinsortstatedtheobligations, so fat^as* h'eceoW
rtaoilCcti thl4»,upxethe •knfghx* templar’s degree foe-testyev but 44-
aft*
* Digitized by Google
66
dined answering questions touching the ceremonies and signs of tbs
several degrees, which he considered were the secrets of masonry;
and having reference to masops alone as such. The oaths he did
not consider were the secrets enjoined to be kept as such. So
far as the witness felt at liberty to answer the questions proposed to
him, his statements were made in apparent frankness and candor,7
7&
c.
No complaint was heard against the rule adopted and acted upon
by the committee; much less was there any intimation that any
member of the committee had not agreed to, or was not satisfied
with it. But during this day, (Wednesday,) it became quite evident,
to those who had been concerned in propagating the charges, tbit
those charges bad all been disproved; and, indeed, they were coo*
scious, that the testimony of the numerous witnesses whom they bad
themselves brought forward for examination during the first fivedays,
instead of sustaining those charges, had gone very far towards dis*
crediting them. It was time therefore for them “ to look to there*
flllt.”
Capt. Wm. Russell had been much relied upon by them to prove
an important charge against masons, as has before been stated; but
his testimony was the reverse of wbat was expected by them. It
was then tlaat they took their stand, and made their preconcert­
ed attempt to interrupt the proceedings of the committee by cel­
ling upon Capt. R. (whom they had summoned for a different pur­
pose,) to testify relative to the masonic secrets. They knew the at­
tempt would be discountenanced; and probably, not without some
severity; as it certainly merited* And it was for this purpose tint
they made it. They had now no hopes from the investigation, and
were desirous oi escaping its results, by complaining of and impeach*
ing the conduct of the committee. And from this moment they rtis*
qd the cry that the committee were partial and bad fdvored tbe ma­
sons. And that the investigation was incomplete and unsatisfactory
and would not answer the object intended, because the masonswere
not required to answer questions rel&ive to the masonic signs, &c.
They knew very well that these were hollow and deceitful preten­
ces; but they were the best they had to set up. Unless they believ­
ed that their owq witnesses had sworn falsely, they knew that the
masonic signs, ceremonies and mysteries of every kind bad already
been disclosed and proved by those witnesses. Moses Tbacber bid
gone as high as the royal arch degree; and he and the other seeed-
mg masons bad testified that, as far as they had gone; all the mason-
ip mysteries were fully and correctly disclosed and described in Ber«
nard and Allyn’s books: and this evidence, there being none to tbe
contrary, and indeed no denial on tbe part of the masons* was qeite
sufficient to warrant the inference that tbe remaining ceremonies,
were also given correctly in those books. Tbe committee so under­
stood it and intended so to report; and (he cabal knew that they did.
Mr- Wm. Sprague jr. has himself mentioned tbe fact that derisg
part of the proceedings he bad withdrawn himself from the commit'
tee This (act was not mentioned in the former part of-this report
because, ai Mr. Sprague had acted with the committee throughout
the whole of the exarniimtions of Mr* Wm* Wilkinson, Mr. B.Crans­
Digitized by Google
ton, and the other masonic witnesses who were examined on the sixth
•ad seventh days, (Tuesday and Wednesday,) during which examina­
tions the rule in question had been acted upon without any appear­
ance of dissatisfaction, and had been repeatedly stated and explained
as having been adopted by the committee of which Mr. Sprague was
one,—as Mr. Sprague had remained in his seat with tbe committee
(he speaks himself of the examination of Capt. Russell, which was
tbe last on Wednesday night) until within a few moments of the time
when the attempt before mentioned was made; and finally as Mr.
Sprague afterwards expressed himself dissatisfied with the rule,
which, during the whole course of the examinations he had never be­
fore done; considering all this;—it was thought that tbe mentioning
the fact of his withdrawing frbm the committee, would have the ap­
pearance of implicating Mr. Sprague with those who had combined
to frustrate the object of the investigation.
Mr. Sprague, the next day after tnat attempt (on Thursday) said
to some of the committee that it was necessary for him “ to look to the
remit.9
1 Being asked wbat he meant by looking to the result, he re-
J
lied that be must consider how it (the examination) is coming out.
Ir. Sprague was reminded that the committee, when they first met,
bad tdken tbe resolution that they would go thoroughly through the
examination let it come out as it might; and that, with the result
they had nothing to do. The committee did not then know that
Mr. Sprague was one of the committee appointed to make the anti-
masonic address published in September; and in which address the
very charges (most of them) which were under examination were con­
tained.
As the name of Willjam Sprague, and not William Sprague, jr. was
put to that address, we cannot tell whether it was, in fact, signed or
examined by Mr. Sprague jr. or not. If it was, lie"was perhaps treat­
ed by those who drew it up in the same manner that Mr. John Brown
ofEast Greenwich, whose name is to the same address as one of the
committee, was treated. In the addtess, that gentleman (Mr. Brdwn)
is made to assert “ that the member* o f those corporations are bound by
fair masonic relations and secret oaths, to give a prejerence to each other,
everthe rest o f m a n k in d fy c . fyc. Whereas in his deposition given
under oath, before the committee, he proves that charge to be
false. Testifying there, that he never believed that his masonic oaths
k m i him to favor a mason at the expense or the injury o f others o f hisfelr
lomcitizens;— that he never himselfpractised uponjuch a construction o f the
oath$?—that i f he had a favor to grant he should consider that he had aright
toselect the object o fhis bounty;—that if afavor was asked o f him by a broth
ormason, every thing being aqual, he thought, but could not be certain, that
he should give a preference to him, the brother mason, and he shouid have
acted in the same w ay between a brother in the church and another who was
not a brother. B ut that such a case never occurred to him,fo r in almost ev­
ery instance there has been something by which to distinguish between the per-
tons, and in that case he should judge accordingly. In the same address
Mr. Brown is made to assert “ that the oaths, regulations and requi­
sitions of masonry, are m direct violation of the civil oaths, and the
duties of witnesses, jurors, and public officer*” And he is also made
Digitized by Google
to•charge .the grand lodge with having always acted steretly a$ a fobu
ical party. All which*is expressly contradicted in bis deposition m
which he swears that he never knew the subjects of politics or reli­
gion, discussed in any lodge—
-which subjects he believed are prohib­
ited, by the bye-laws; that he never knew masonry to be used as a
political engine or for the purpose of obstructing justice; and never
knew any judge, juror, witness or officer act upon any such principle.
The committee have pointed out the evil that exists, and have
traced it, as they believe* to its true source. I* would now be their
province and duty, if in their power, to point out the remedy. They
can point, it out, indeed, without difficulty. But it is aremedy which
can only be effectually applied by the freemasons themselves. They
stand acquitted, it is true, of all the charges which designing matt
have brought against them. But they.are left in a situation highly
responsible. One which pots it in their power, and gives them an
Opportunity—Seldom; enjoyed by any single class of citizens—to rerr*
cjey a signal service to the whole community.
•.They cannot misunderstand what we mean.', nOr do we think so
pe^ly of them,as to believe it to be necessary that we should make
use of any caution or preparation, much less disguise, in approaching
the object which we have to recommend to their attention. Their
own self respect and consciousness of integrity ought to convince
them, even if the fact had not been clearly proved,and indeed alraort
confessed, that those who had propagated these charges against thent;
have not themselves, and never have had, any confidence or belief-in
them; and have resorted to them merely as the means (which bad
een elsewhere successful) of producing a popular excitement which:
key might render subservient to political purposes.
It is for masons to decide whether they will allow themselves to
be made use of for such purposes. If there is any principle of hon­
or—gny sound principle, whatever, by which masons are bound hot
tp discontinue the masonic institution, then, of course, there can be
nothing,said upon the subject. Blit we cannot conceive of any secb
principle* Are there, then, any peculiar advantages or benefits-^any
personal objects, too important to masons individually, to beisacri-
ficed to the wishes and welfare of the community? This, also; is a
question for masons themselves to determine.- There can be no pe­
cuniary, or property interest in the way. The funds of those lodgfee
which hove funds, can bo divided or placed in trust for the benefit of
those for whose benefit they were intended.
/.The masonic institution is a charitable and social^institution^ and,
in both respects it is. praiseworthy: But may not masons continue
to be charitable, and toenjoy the pleasures and benefits of social in­
tercourse, without adhering to the forms and ceremonies of an insti­
tution that excites jealousies and Suspicion, and causes strife* mry,
haired and all uncharUablenes*
Formerly* when tbtf intercourse among the people of different*on*
lions was much more limited and unfrequent than it now is, individual
masons, who might fall,among strangers and be in.distress, might
rive some benefit from ftiasonry. But, in the present slate of tho
world, its usefulness in this respect is superseded. . Now,tthflre is
Digitized by Google
scarcely a spot on the face of the globe which an American is likely
to vist, where lie will noi, probably, find some of his countrymen, if
aotsome o f his acquaintances.
If, tbeu, there are no useful or desirable objects which will be
lost by relinquishing the institution, what good reason can there be
for continuing it? We are not able to conceive of any. Nay, we
persuaded that, candid and liberal minded masons view the sub-
jectjn the same light, and will readily consent that the institution
shall now be discontinued, unless they allow tbemslves (as we are alt
soliable to do,) to be misled by their own feelings.
We have beard some masons say that they would very willingly,
usder present circumstances, give up masonry; but that they do not
choose to be driven into the measure by their enemies. There could
not possibly be a greater mistake than this. It is far from the wish*
esot their enemies to drive them to give up masonry: it is the con­
trary way they wish to drive them.. When the masons, during the
late examinations, came forward with a readiness and frankness which
did them credit, and made a lull disclosure of all their masonic obli­
gations, there were some among their enemies who were evidently,
not only .disappointed, but discomfited. It has long been confidently
assarted and believed, that they would refuse to disclose their obli­
gations. And it was hoped that they would so refuse; because they
would thereby give countenance to the accusations of having sub­
jected themselves to obligations in the highest degree criminal. Can
it be possible that discerning masons can fail to perceive, that the
thing which of all others their enemies most dread, is the discontin­
uance of the masonic institutions, upon the continuance of which their
hopes ofpolitical success are wholly built. We can add nothing to what
we have already said upon this subject. We do hope that the masons
will not fall into.the snare that is laid for them;, will not allow them-
selves to be so operated upon and speculated upon, as to be with­
held and prevented from complying with the wishes of the great body
of their fellow citizens, and of ail their best friends and well wishers,
and by so acting, to gratify the wishes and promote the designs of
their worst enemies, as would iqpst assuredly be .the case.
Surely the masons can entertain no resentments towards the rest
of their fellow-citizens. They have no.iust cause for complaint even
against those political antimasons, who, believing that political mean*
and measures as necessary to effect the dissolution of the masonic
associations, are using all their exertions to effect that object by
those means, However strong 'may be their sense of injury, and
their feelings of resentment, masons ought, at least, so far to com­
mand those feelings as to keep it in their power to judge of others
with some degree of candor. And if they do this, they cannot fail
to see and acknowledge that it is by no means without cause, that
their fellow-citizens now manifest towards the masonic institution so
strong and:decided a hostility, as they do. Let them recollect the
liberality and confidence which has been heretofore shown to them.
The community witnessed the pomps and parades, and heard the
high sounding titles of masonry, and were not moved to suspicion*
They .manifested no wish to inquire into the mysterieh of the institu­
tion, arid took no notice of ihe^accounta given by Barruel and Robin-
D
ig
itiz
e
db
y OOg €
w
ion of the horrible conspiracies of the German end French secret fra*
ternities, which claimed, at least, an alliance frith the masonic frater*
nities in those countries. All this confidence heretofore reposed ia
masons, shows v$ry clearly that the community do not now indulge
in jealousies and suspicions of the masonic institutions without good
cause.
But the fact that there is ample ground for those jealousies ami
suspicions is but too manifest without the aid of argument. The trans*
actions in the western parts of New-York, were surely quite suffic­
ient to excite universal alarm and suspicion as well as abhorrence and
indignation. True, Upright and humaue men who abhor those trans­
actions as much as any of their fellow citizens can do, ought oot to
be held responsible for them because they happen to be masons.
Very true; but is not masonry answerable for them?
Those crimes were committed by masons; avowedly in the cause
of masonry; and, as the perpetrators believed, in accordance with tbs
principles of masonry. True; The genuine' principles of masonry
give no countenance to such crimes. They inculcate the perform*
ance of every duty—religious, moral, civil and social. We liplieve
it : but those misguided and guilty men understood those principles
differently, and believed themselves justified, nay bound, by them to
do what they did. Ought good men and good citizens, without any
real necessity or strong inducement, to countenance and continue an
establishment which can possibly be so misconstrued and abused?
What has taken place may take place again. There is no improba*
bility in the supposition that the same tragic scenes may be reacted.
Should they be so; will those who may be the means of perpetuating
an institution which can be so perverted:—will they feel perfectly
satisfied with themselves?
It has been observed that even the institutions of religion have been
corrupted and perverted to criminal purposes. The fact—to the
disgrace as well as the misfortune of mankind—is too true; but it
furnishes no argument in favor of the. masonic institutions. Whit
would mep be without religion;—forlorn and wretched, as well as de-
E
raved. It will not be said that thqy would be any the worse or less
appy if masonry was abolished. '
before the masons themselves disclosed the obligations which they
take, they had no right to complain that those obligations were mb
represented by seceding masons who had taken them. The public
had no other evidence nefore them, And now, when the oaths which
they really do take are disclosed, let us ask the masons if there are
not many things about them highly objectionable. It is wrong, we
think, that they should take oaths at all. If it is not illegal to do so,
it is certainly improper; as it sets a bad example, and tends to lessee
the solemnity which ought ever to be felt when an oath is taken.
The old forms of the oaths which are still adhered to are extreme*
ly improper. It is true that the construction which the masons pat
upon them in this state renders them harmless, but that is by no means
the natural construction of the language itself. The oaths taken by
themselves, without being corrected and controlled by the addressee
and charges are, according to the terms of them, clearly erimintl
And can it be proper to take obligations the differen of which
Digitized by
ire in direct collision with and contradiction to each other, and yet
Ibe whole to be sworn to. ~
Bat it is an insurmountable objection to those oaths, that they are
liable to a construction which renders them in the highest degree
criminal and dangerous; and that such a construction has actually
been put upon them by masons, and has been productive of the most
dreadful consequences.
The transactions in the western part of New-York have led sober
minded men into a train of reflections which ought not to be treated
lightly by masons. There must have been great numbers of persons
fromdifferent quarters concerned in those transactions. The fact
speaks for itself.* They w.ould not have been undertaken,and could
aot have been carried* through, without (be present aid and agency
ofmany, and the countemmceend approbation of more. And that
such was the fact has been fully proved. It is but a fair inference
that what was going on was not unknown to the masonic bodies gen­
erally, in that part of the state at least. What reason, indeed, is
there for supposing that the actors and plotters in it would wish to
conceal it from their brethren? During the examinations here it was
stated by masons that it was the practice of masonic bodies in one
state to communicate to those of other states all cases of the expul*
sion of members. It was also stated, that no communication had
been made' to our lodges or chapters by any masonic body in New-
York of any expulsion on account of the Morgan, affair, or of any ex­
amination having been made into that transaction. It cannot be
doubted that the lodges and chapters in that part of the State hadSt
fully itt their power to have detected and brought to justice many of
the criminals concerned in the abduction of Morgan, if not those con­
cerned in his murder. And yet we do not find that they have even
expelled a single member, or made any manner of enquiry about
them. Gan it be denied that by such conduct those lodges and chap-*
ten have implicated themselves in the guilt of those transactions, and
made themselves responsible for it. And not they alone are impli­
cated. The higher masonic authorities to whom they are subordinate
aodaccountable, are equally implicated and responsible.
It was testified by Mr. M. Richardson that he was present in the*
general grand royal arch chapter in New-York when the news of the
abduction of Moivaik was brought and communicated in that body,
to the late Gov. Clinton, who presided; and that he the next dfeyad­
vertised a reward' offifteen hundred dollars for the apprehension of
the culprits, which, Mr. R. said, was thought sufficient. But was it
sufficient*? Gov. Clinton acted as chief magistrate of the State, not
is bead of the masonic chapter. The criminals were masons, and
members of masonio bodies subordinate to the body then in session.
The crime had been committed in the name of masonry; and, as the
perpetrators contended, under masonic authority. Yet it does not
appear that any notice whatever was taken ofit by that body.
If masonry is pure in its original principles; if in this state it has
been, so far, preserved in its purity, is not now the time to discontin-
ue it, before it shall have become corrupted, as it has been elsewhere ?
It was acknowledged by the late Gov. Clinton, the head of mason-
Ty in the United States, that the masonic institutions had been[pcr-
7*
verted to political uses. If this was the ease before the existence of
the opposing political antimasonic parties, will not those institutions
inevitably become organised political bodies throughout the country?
In this state it has as yet never been so perverted; but can it possi­
bly escape the general contagion?
. The incessant exertions oT speculative antimasons to produce it,
makes such an event but too probable.' Are masons here prepared
for such a change in their institution, or to take upon themselves the
responsibility which it will impose; or expose themselves to the con­
sequences that would ensue to all of them, ifa part only were guilty
of this^or any other misconduct. We would not impute to masons,
or make them responsible for the contentions and mischief that is oc­
casioned by designing men, for political or sinister purposes; hut
they certainly owe it-to themselves to inquire if it would be consist­
ent with the elevated character they sustain, for them to refuse to
put a stop to the evils referred to, since they alone can do it, by re­
linquishing the institution which has caused them. .
It is supposed by some that a discontinuance of the masonic insti­
tutions would not have the effect expected from such a measure—
that the cry would still be kept up. This would no doubt be true
with those who wish tp prevent their discontinuance—but still it
would have an effect immediately, and in a short time complete suc­
cess. A great proportion of antimasons are honest and would be
satisfied.
. There is another important consideration and one that enforces
the propriety of the course we recofnmend,—that masons in this
State have not in any instance been misled by the improper influence
which4be terms of their obligations suggest to the mind; but have
acted from a construction of them consistent with the original ptiiici*
pies of masonry, and with all their duties as citizens. This fact will
prevent their adversaries, if they are so disposed, from alleging that
the surrender of masonry by masons, implies any confession by them,
rthat it is now (or ever has been here) understood or practised upon
in a way which is detrimental to society—by its surrender they admit
no more, than is every day admitted by masons individually, that it
has ceased to be useful. Under such circumstances, we should Ido
iqjMSjtice to the masons, to their intelligence, their regard for the peace
ol society and even to their patriotism, to doubt their willingness to
discontinue an institution, which is liable to be, a3 it already has been
perverted to the worst purposes, and is a source of alarm to many
of our best citizens.
5 U is not possible for masons to feel indifferent to the consider*
tiops which we have here suggested: they fill too large a space in
community—are too. deeply«interested in its .welfare, and ,feel too
much respect for the Opinions and wishes of their fellow-citizens, ft
allow them to hesitate.
This committee cannot but come to the conclusion that the masons
owe it to the community, to themselves, and to sound principles,
now to discontinue, thermasonic institutions.
B. HAZARD,
,r WAMESUF. SIMMONS,
l e y i. h a il e , t
STEPHEN B. CO EN FLU ^O gle
-Committee.
APPENDIX,
Containing the Official Documents ofy and the Testimony taken by the
Committee.
A
To the candidate.—“ Before we can proceed to give youthe secrets offree­
masonry it will be necessary for you to take an oath or obligation, such as all
masons hare taken before you, whereby you will bind yourself to keep ioviola*
hie all the secrets that may be communicated to you. This obligation is not
intended to interfere with your religious or political opinions.” And some*
times the form is changed, and put in this manner: “ this obligation is not in*
tended to interfere with your duty to yourself, your neighbor, your country, or
your God.” “ Have you any objection to taking such an obligation ?” To
the candidate, who has noobjection, the following obligations are administered:
Obligation of Entered Apprentice.—“ I —-----------, of my own
free will and accord, and in the presence of Almighty God, and this right wor*
thipful lodge, erected to Him and dedicated to St. John, do hereby and here*
on (that is, on the Holy Bible, Square and Compass,) solemnly and sincerely
promise and swear (or a%m) that I will always hail, forever conceal, and
never reveal^ any of the secret arts, parts or points of the mysteries of free*
masonry, to any person under the canopy of heaven, except it shall be to a
trueand lakwful mason, or within the body of a just and regular lodge of such$
and not unto him or them until after due trial, strict examination, or by the
lawful information of a brother, I shall have found him or them as justly and *
lawfully entitled to the same as I am myself.
I furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will not write, print,
cut, carve, paint, stain, or engrave them, or cause the same to be done by oth*
ers, upon any thing movable or immovable, whereby the least letter, figure or
character may become legible or intelligible, so that the secrets of the craft
may at any time be unlawfully obtained.
All this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a fixed and steady purposeof
oiod in me to perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation,
or apcret evasion of mind in me whatever—binding myself under no less pen*
alty than that of having my throat cut across from ear to ear, my tongue
tomout by its roots, and that buried in the rough sand of the sea, at low wa*
ter mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours. So help
m
e God, aod keep me steadfast in the performance of this my Entered Ap*
pretice’s oath or obligation.”
The explanation given by masons of this penalty is, “ that I would rather
haveor sooner have, my throat cut, &c. than to reveal,” &c. And there is
anarticle in the by-laws of the lodge in Providence, which provides “ that if
any member shall disclose any of the transactions of the body, to the disad­
vantage of the craft,” #c. “ he shall be admonished,” or “ expelled.” • (Sea
15tharticle of the by-laws of St. John’s Lodge, and the 14th of Mount Ver­
nonLodge.)
Fellow Craft’s Obligation.—I , ------------, of my own free will and
accord, aod i%the presence of Almighty God, aod this right worshipful lodge
• • Digitized by Google
2
of Follow Crafts, erected to God and dedicatedjto St. John, do hereby sod
hereon, in addition to myiarmer obligation, solemnly and sincerely prom
ise
and swear (or affirm) that I will alwayrhail, forever conceal, and never re­
veal, any of the secret mysteries offreemasonry, appertaining to the degreeo
f
Fellow Craft, to any person under,tbe canopy of heaven, unless it shall beto
a true and lawful fellow craft, or within the body ofa just and regular lodgeo
f
such; and not unto him or them until after due trial, strict examination, orb
y
the lawful information of a fellow craft, I shall have found him or them to be
as justly and lawfully entitled to the same as I am myself.
I furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will aid and.assist all
worthy distressed fellow crafts, so far as I can do it without injury to m
yself.
I furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will answer all law
ful
signs or tokens, which may be given or sent unto me from a true and law
ful
fellow craft, or from the body of ajust and lawful lodge of such, ifwithinthe
first angle or square ofmy work.
All this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a firm and fixedresolution to
perform the same—binding myself under no less penalty than that of having
iny left breast torn open, my heart taken from thence and given as a prey to
ihe beasts of the held and fowls of the air. So help me God, and keepm
e
steadfast in the performance of this my fellow crafts’ oath or obligation.”
The words, u if within the first angle or square of my work,’*are under­
stood to have an allusion to operative masonry, and to mean a straight lioe;
from one corner of a building to another.
Master Mason’s Obligation.—“ I , --------------, of my own free w
ill j
and accord, -and in the presence of Almighty God, and this right w
orshipful .
lodge of-master masons, erected to Him and dedicated to St. John, dohereby (
and hereon, in addition to my former obligations, solemnly and sincerely j
promise and swear (or affirm) that I will always hail, forever conceal, and
never reveal, any of the secret mysteries of freemasonry, appertaining totbe
degree ofmaster mason, to any person under the canopy of heaven, except it
shall be to a true and lawful master mason, or within the body of ajust and
regular lodge of such; and not unto him or them until after due trial, strict
examination, or by the lawful information of a%
master mason, I shall have
found him or them to be as justly and lawfully entitled to the same as 1am
myself.
1st. 1 furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will answeralllaw
­
ful signs and summonses, which may be given or sent unto me from atrueand
lawful master mason, or from the body of a just and lawful lodge of such, if
within the length of my cable tow.
$d. That I will aid and assist all worthy distressed master masons, their,
widows and orphans, so far as I can do it without injury to myself orfam
ily.
3d. That I will keep h brother’s secrets as my own, when committedto
me in charge as such, murder and treason excepted.
4th. That I will abide by and support tbe by-laws of the lodge of w
hichI
may become a member, the constitution of the grand lodge under which the
same isholden, and the general regulations of masonry.
5th. I furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will not be at tbe
making of a woman a mason, a young man under 8ge, an old man in dotage,
an atheist, mad man, or a fool, knowing them to be such.
6th. That I will not wrong a brother, or deprive him of bis good nam
e, n
r
suffer it to be done by others, if in my power to prevent it; but will appme
him of all’approaching danger, so far as it shall come to my knowledge.
7th. That 1 will not violate the chastity of a brother’s wife, daughter, &
is
»
ler or mother, knowing them to be such.
8th. That I will not give the master mason’? word except on the fivepoints
I
s
offellowship, and not then above my breath, unless absolute necessity shall
require it:
All this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a firm and fixed resolution to
perform the same—binding myselfunder no less penalty than that of having
m
y bodysevered in two, my bowels taken out and burnt to ashes, and those
ashes scattered in the four winds ofheaven—my body quartered, and dispers­
ed towards the four cardinal points of the universe, so that there should bs no
moreremembrance had of me among men or masons forever.
So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the performance of this my mas­
termason’s oath or obligation.”
Succeeding each obligation a charge is given, whichmay be foundin Webb’s
Monitor, and which explains the duty of a mason under the obligation. The
Monitor is used as a book of reference by masons, and is always depended
onfor correct information respecting the seven first degrees.
B
Mark Master’s Obligation.—I ------ ——, of my own free will and
accord, and in the presence of Almighty God, and this lodge of mark master
masons, erected to him, and dedicated to St. John, do hereby and hereon, in
addition to my former obligations, solemnly and sincerely promise and swear
(oraffirm) that, I will always hail, forever conceal, and never reveal any of the
secret arts, parts or points ofthe mysteries offreemasonry appertainingto the
degree of a mark master, to any person under the canopy of HeavenJ except
it shall be to a true and lawful mark master mason, or within the body of a
regularly constituted lodge ofsuch, and not unto him or them, until after due
trial strict examination, or by the lawful information of a mark master, I shall
have found him or them to be as justly and lawfully entitled to the same as I
am myself.
1 furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will answer all lawful
signs and summons which may be given or sent unto me fronra true and law­
ful mark master mason, or from a regularly constituted lodge ofsuch, if within
the length of my cable tow.
2d. That f will aid and assist all worthy distressed mark master masons,
their widows and orphans, so far as I can do it without injury to myself or
family.
3d. That I will not pledge my mark a second time without redeeming it
the first, neither will I receive a brother’s mark in pledge without granting
himhis request if in mypower, if not I will return him^iis mark with the value
thereof, which is one quarter of a dollar.
4th. That I will not alter my mark nor suffer it to be done by others, if in
m
y power to prevent it, after it has been onre recorded on the lodge book
kept for that purpose.
5th. That I will abide by and support the by-laws of the mark lodge, of
*bich I may become a member, the constitution of the general, and state
grand chapters under which the same is holden, and the general regulations
of masonry.
All this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a fixed and steadypurpose of
mind to pelform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or
secret evasion of mind in me whatever—binding myself under no less penalty,
than that of having my right ear smote off, so as not to be able to hear the
word, my right hand struck off, so as not to be able to give,the sign, so help
me God, and keep me steadfast to perform this my mark master’s obligation.
Past Master’s Obligation.—I --------------, of my own free will and ac­
cord, and in the presence of Almighty God, and this lodge of past Master
masons, erected to Him, and dedicated to St. John, do hereby and hereoq, in
„ 1 Digitized by Goog e
4
addition to my former obligations, solemnly and sineerely promise and swear
(or affirm) that I will always hail, forever conceal, and never reveal, any of
the secret arts, parts or points ofthe mysteries of freemasonry appertaining
to the degree of a past master, to any person under the canopy of Heaven,
except it shall be to a true and lawful past master, or within the body of s
regularly constituted lodge of such, and not unto him or them until after doe
trial, strict examination or by the lawful information of a past master 1 shall
have found bim or them to be as justly and lawfully entitled to the same ss
I jtm myself.
I furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will answer all lawful
signs and summonses which may be given or sent unto mefrom a true and law*
fill brother of this degree, or from a regularly constituted lodge of such, if
within the length ofmy cable tow*
2d. That I will aid and assist all worthy distressed past masters, their w
>
>
dows and orphans, so far as I can do it without injury to myselfof family.
Sd. That I will not,rule nor govern the lodge over which I may be ap­
pointed to preside, in an arbitrary or illegal manner, but agreeably to the by­
laws adopted by a majority of tbe members for the government ofthe same.
4th. That I will abide' by and support the by-laws of the lodge of which I
may become a member, the constitution of tbe general, and state grand chap­
ters under which tbe same is holden, and the general regulations of masonry.
All this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a firmand fixed purpose of
mind to perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation or
secret evasion of mind in me whatever, binding myselfunder no less penalty
than that of having my tongue cleave to the roof ofmy mouth so as not to bt
able to give the word, so help me God and keep me steadfast to perform this
my past master mason’s oath or obligations.
Most Excellent Master’s Obligation —I ------------ of my own
free will and accord, and in the presence of Almighty God, and this lodge of
most excellent masters, erected to Him, and dedicated to St. John, do hereby
and hereon, in addition to my foriner obligations, solemnly and sincerely prom­
ise and swear (or affirm) that I will always hail, forever conceal, and never
reveal, any of tbe secret arts, parts or points of the mysteries offreemasonry,
appertaining to the degree of a most excellent master, to any person under
the canopy of heaven, except it shall be to a true and lawful most excellent
master, or within the body of a regularly constitued lodge ofsuch, and not on­
to him fr them, until after due trial, strict examination, or by the lawful in*
formation of a most excellent master, I shall have found bim or them to be a*
justly, and lawfully entitled to the same as I am myself.
T furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will answer all lawful
signs and summonses, which may be given or sent unto me, froma true and law­
ful most excellent master, or from a regularly constituted lodge of stich, if
within tbe length of my cable tow.
2d. That I will aid and assist all worthy distressed most excellent masten,
their widows and orphans, so far as I can do it without injury to myself or
family.
3d. That I will not derogate from the name nowabout to be conferred npoa
me, being that of a most excellent master.
4th. That I will not open and close a lodge, over which I maybe appointed
to preside, without first working a lecture, or a section of a lecture.
5th. That I will abide by and support the by-lawoof the most extellent
masters lodge of which I may become a member, the constitution of the gene**
ral, and state grand chapters, under which the saute is holden, and the gen­
eral regulations of masonry.
Ail this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a fixed and steady purpose of
• ' Digitized by Google
5
mind to perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or
secret evasion of mind in me whatever, binding myself under no less penalty,
than that of having my flesh torn from ray ribs, and my body exposed to rot!
on a dunghill, so help me God, and keep me steadfast to perform this my
most excellent master’s obligation.
Royal Arch Mason’s Obligation.— I --------------, of my own free will
and accord, and in the presence of Almighty God, hnd this chapter of royal
arch masons, erected to Him, and dedicated to king Solomon, da hereby and
hereon, in addition to my former obligations, solemnly and sincerely promise
and swear, (t>r affirm) that I will always hail, forever conceal, and never re*
veal, any of the secret arts, parts or points of the mysteries of freemasonry,
appertaining to the degree of royal arch masonry, to any person under the.
canopy of heaven, except it shall be to a true and lawful royal arch mason, or
within the body of a regularly constituted chapter of such; and not unto him
or them until after due trial, strict examination, or by the lawful information
of a companion, 1 shall have found him or them to be as justly and awfully
entitled to the same as 1 am myself.
1st. 1 furthermore promise and swear (or affirm) that I will answer all law*
ful signs and summonses, which may be given or sent unto me from a true'and
lawful companion, or from the body ofa regularly constituted chapter of such,
if within the length of my.cable tow.
2d. That I will aid and assist all worthy distressed royal arch masons,
their widows and orphans, so far as I can do it without injury to myself or
family. v . ■ v
3d. That I will not be present at the opening of a chapter of royal arch
masons, unless there shall be present nin$ regular royal arch masons
4th. That I will not be present at conferring the degree of royal arch ma­
sonry upon any one who has not, according to the best of my knowledge and
belief, regularly received all the preceding degrees, viz: entered apprentice,
fellow craft, master mason, mark master, past master, and most excellent
master—and not then unless he is deemed a worthy man.
6th. That I will not shed the blood ofa royal arch mason nnlawfully, know­
ing him to be such.
6th. That I will not reveal the key to the mysterious characters of royal
arch masonry to any person under the canopy ofheaven, except it be to a true
and lawful royal arch mason, or within the body of a regularly constituted
chapter of such.
?tb. That I will not give the grand royal arch word in any other manner,
except that in which I may receive it.
gtb. That I will abide by and support the by-laws of the chapter of w^ich I
may become a member, the constitution of the general, and state grand chap­
ters, under which the same is holden, and the general regulations of masonry.
All this I promise and swear (or affirm) with a fixed and steady purpose of
mind to perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or
secret evasion of mind in me whatever, binding myself under no less penalty
than that of having my scull smote off and my brains exposed to the scorching
rajs of the sun. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in performing this
taj royal arch mason’s oath or obligation.
C
Obligation op the degree op Knights op the Red Cross.—I —
— , of my own free will and accord, and in the presence of the Supreme
Architect of the universe and these companions, do hereby 4nd hereon, most
solemnly aBd sincerely promise and swear—that I will always hail, forever
conceal and never reveal any of the mysteries appertaining to the degree of
Digitized by Google
Knights of the Red Cross, to any person under the canopy of heaven, except
it be to a true and lawful Knight of the Red Cross, or in the body of a just
and lawful council of the order.
I furthermore promise and swear, that I will answer and obey all lawful
3/gns and summonses given or sent to me from a regular council of Knigbtsof
the Red Cross, or given me by the hand of a brother Sir Knight, if within
the distance of forty miles, natural infirmities and unavoidable accidents only
excusing me.
I furthermore promise and swear, that, I will not be at the opening of a
council of Knights of the red cross, except there shall be present five regular
members of the order, or three knights of the red cross, being also knights
templars and bailing from three different commanderies, with a warrant or
charter empowering them to work. I furthermore promise and swear, that I
will not be present at the conferring of the degree of knights of the red cross,
upon arugperson who has not according to the best of my knowledge, receiv­
ed all K preceding degrees viz.^entered apprentice, fellow crafts, mark mas­
ter, &c. f
I furthermore promise and swear, that I will vindicate ihe character of a
worthy sir knight, when wrongfully traduced and will assist him on all lawful
occasions with my purse, counsel and sword, so far as truth, justice and hon­
our may warrant. I furthermore promise and swear that I will abide by and
support the by-laws of the council of which I maybecome a member, the con­
stitution of the general grand and state encampments and the general regula­
tions of knighthood. All this I promise and swear, with a fixed and steady
purpose of mind to perform the same, binding myself under no less penalty
than that my house may be pulled dywn and timber taken from thence, and
being set up, I may be hanged thereon. And until the last trump shall sound
I may be excluded from the society of all courteous sir knights of the red
cross, should I wilfully or intentionally violate ,this obligation. So help me
God and keep me steadfast to perform the same.
Knighps Templars Obligation.—I------------- , of my own tree will and
accord and in the presence of the Supreme Architect of the universe and
these sir knights present, do hereby and hereon, most solemnly and sincerely
promise and swear, that I will forever keep and conceal and never re­
veal any of the mysteries appertaining to the orders of Knights Tem­
plars and Knights of Malta of the order of St. John at Jerusalem, to any
person under the canopy of heaven, except it be to a true and lawful sir
knight of these orders, or in the body of a just and regular constituted en­
campment. I furthermore promise and swear that I will answer and obey
all lawful signs or summonses, given or sent ui^to me from a true courteous sir
knight, or from the body of a just and regular constituted encampment.
I furthermore promise and swear that I will aid and assist all worthy
knights templars, their widows and orphans, so far as the same can be done
without injury to myselfor family.
I furthermore promise and swear that I will not be at the opening of any
regular constituted encampment unless there shall be present seven regular
members of the order, nor will be at the opening of any new encampment un­
less there shall be present seven regular knights templars or three sir knights
hailing from three different commanderies, with a warrant or charter,from
someregular grand encampment empowering them to work.
I furthermore promise and swear that I will not be present at conferring
the order of knights templars upon any person who has not, according to the
best of my knowledge and beliefreceived all the preceding degrees.
I furthermore promise and swear that I will travel forty miles barefoot on
frozen ground to relieve the necessities of a worthy knight templar, should I
Digitized by Google
be convinced his situation required it and I have no other way of communicat­
ing to his relief.
I furthermore promise and swear that I will wield my sword in defence of
innocent maidens, destitute widows, helpless orphans and the christianreligion.
I furthermore promise and swear that I will abide by and support the by­
laws of the encampment ofwhich I may become a member, the constitution of
the general and state grand encampments under wbicb the same is holden
and the general regulations of knighthood.
AH this I promise and swear with a fixed and steady purpose of mind to
perform the same, binding myself under no less penalty than that my head
may be stricken off and placed on the highest spire in Christendom. So help
me God and keep me steadfast to perform this obligation.
Select Master’s Obligation..—I-------------, in the presence of this
council of Select Masters, erected to God and dedicated to King Solomon,
dosolemnly and sincerely promise and swear,— '
1. That I will stand to and abide by all the laws, rules and regulations of
the council of select masters of which I may become a member, and ever main­
tain the general regulations of the order.
2. I further promise and swear that I will answer all due signs and sum­
monses given or sent unto roe from a true and lawful select master or from
the body ofa just and regular council of such.
3. That I will not assent to nor confer the degree of select master upon
any one except he is a royal arcli mason and has taken all the preceding de­
grees, and has also been admitted a royal master in a regular council.
4. That I will not enter the 9th arch without permission of the three grand
masters;—neither will I penetrate beyond the one in which I am employed.
All this I promise and swear, without any equivocation, Rental reserva­
tion, or secret evasion of mind in me whatever. Binding myselfunder no less
penalty than that of having my eyes torn from their sockets, my hands chop­
ped off to the stumps, my body quartered and thrown among the rubbish ofthe
temple. So help me God and keep me steadfast to perform this my select
master’s obligation.
Rotal Master’s Obligation.—I ------------- , of my own free will and
accord, and in the presence of Almighty God and this right worshipful council
of Royal Masters, erected to God and dedicated to king Solomon, do hereby
and hereon most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear,—
1. That I will keep and conceal all the mysteries appertaining to the de­
gree of royal master and will not reveal the same, except it be to a true and
lawful companion ofthat order, or in ajust and regular constituted council of
such.
2. I further promise and swear, that I will not be at the opening of a coun­
cil of royal masters unless there be seven members of that degree present.
3. That I will not be present at conferring the degree of royal master upon
any one who has not, according to the best of my knowledge and belief regu­
larly received the preceding degrees of entered apprentice, fellow craft, mas­
ter mason, mark master, past master and most excellent master, and been
exalted to the sublime degree of royal arch masonry.
4. That I will abide by and support the by-laws of the council of which I
may become a member and the general regulations of the order.
5. That I will not give the words, grips and signs of this degree in any
other manner than that in which I may receive them.
All this I promise and swear, with a firm and fixed resolution toperform the
same;—binding myselfunder the penalties of my preceding obligations, with
this addition—that I would sooner be buried alive, and my memory forgotten
among the craft. So help me God and keep me steadfast to perform the same.
Digitized by Google
B
D
STANDING INTERROGATORIES BY THE COMMITTEE.
1st. Are you or bare you been a freemason; if so, bow many degrees in
masonry bare you taken, by what lodge or chapter were you admitted, andat ,
what time?
2d. Before or at the time of your taking each ofthose degrees, was an oath
or obligation administered to you ?
3d. Upon each occasion before administering such obligation to you, did
the master or other mason administering the same, say to you, that nothing
therein contained was to be considered in any manner as interferingwith your
religious or political opinions, or with the duty you owed toyourMaker oryour
country ?
4th. Can you repeat the several obligations administered to you; if so,
what was the first or entered apprentices9 oath? Please to repeat said oaths
in their order. Please to attend while the forms of the several oaths for the
"degrees you took are read to you fromthis book, (Allyn’s Ritual, Boston edi­
tion, 1831) and point out any variations you shall find in them from the sev­
eral oaths you took. Please explain the meaning of these several oaths at
youunderstand them, and as they are understood in your lodge. Did you ever
know a lodge or chapter refuse to administer the affirmation instead of the
oath, when the candidate preferred taking the former? Did you ever know the
affirmation administered? ,
5th. At your initiation into each degree was a charge given to you by the
presiding officer, and were, those charges the same as those contained io
Webb’s Monitor? What are the variations, if any? Did you consider those
charges binding?
6th. Before the several oaths w^e delivered to you; had you endeavored
to ascertain as far as possible what you probably wouldbe required to swearto?
7th. Wh^n taking the oaths did you strictly and seriously attend to them,
od use your best endeavors to comprehend their true meaning, and what were
;be obligations you were about to fake upon yourself?
8th. Did you at the time understand the oaths you took, or were you then
-satisfied that you did? had you any doubts? did you make any enquiry as to
the meaning of them before or at the time of swearing, or immediately after?
9th. Did you reflect, after you had taken each oath, upon the nature, ex­
tent and force of it? And upon reflection were you satisfied, or if not satisfied,
<)id you complain or express your scruples to the lodge?
10th., When you took the several oaths, was it your understanding that yoo
thereby, as far as you could, gave jurisdiction or authority to the lodge to exe­
cute upon you the penalties expressed in said oaths severally; that is, to take
your life in the mannerexpressed in said oaths respectively: and did you con­
sider that yourself, as a member ofthe lodge, was to share in the same power
andjurisdiction over others?
11th. What do you consider the secrets and*mysteries of masonry to be?
Do you know of any others than those disclosed in Bernard’s Light onM
a*
sonry or Allyn’s Ritual?
12th. Are the constitution and by-laws of lodges printed and published?
Are there any secret by-laws? Has a lodge any book of records or other
book containing any secrets?
13th. Do you know of any other oaths or obligations than those you hare
specified.
14th. T^en you took the oaths, did you consider any of them incompatible
with your religious, moral, social or civil obligations? What do yoaeoasider
io be the objects of masonry?
15th. Are you an adhering or seceding mason, if a seceder, when did yoc
Digitized by Google
9
secede, in what manner and on what account? Are you an antimason? if so,
are you a political antimason* Are you one of these, who hare resolred and
declared themselves to be a political party ?
16th. Did you ever hear the subject of the nature and extent of the penal­
ties of Masonic oaths discussed in any lodge?
17th. Did you ever hear it asserted in any lodge that said lodge had power
to inflict upon any member, for any offence whatever, any higher punishment
than expulsion? Did you ever hear of any being inflicted?
18th. Do not the principles of masonry forbid the discussion of religious or
political subjects in lodges?
19th. Did you everknow any lodge to combine, or to take any measures to
support a mason, or other particular candidate for any office?
20th. Did you ever consider or believe that anything in the obligation* yOu
took bound you, as a freeman, to vote for a mason for any office, in preference
to abetter man, not a mason? If you did, what part of your obligations do
you refer to, and did you ever vote for one you least liked and thought least
qualified, because a mason, in preference to a better mao of your own political
sentiments? If you had a vote to give, or favor to confer upon an individual,
should you or should you not prefer a brother mason to one not a mason, his
claims, qualifications and merits being in all other respects equal?
21st. Did you believe that your masonic oaths bound you to favor a mason
at the expense and to the injury of others of your fellow-citizens? Did you ev­
er yourself practice upon such a construction ofyour masonic oaths?
22d. Did you ever know the grand hailing sign of masons given in any
court, to any judge, juror or officer? Did you ever know any judge, juror or
officer to practice upon such a construction of the oaths?
23d. If oh any occasion your'masonic obligations had come in direct con­
flict with your religious, or yout4moral, or your social obligations—with your
duty to your Maker or to your country, or to your fellow-citizens, which ob*
ligation should you have considered paramdunt or of most binding effect, and
which should you have obeyed, your masonic, or your religions, moral and so­
cial obligations?
24th. What do you understand to bp,the objects of masonry?
25th. Have you frequented or visited lodges in other stated if so, to what
extent; and are their masonic practices, ceremonies, signs and works the
same or similar to those of the lodges inthis State?
26th. Is there a chain of connection or communication between the lodges,
grand lodge, or higher orders of masonry in this State andihose in.others of
the United States; and do the whole lodges, or grand lodges, or higher or­
ders in the states, form one masonic community or order/under one head or
ehief, called the Grand High Priest of the United States of what nature is
that connection? Is there a connection between the bighqr masonic orders or
powers in this country and those of any or all of the Eurhean states? If so,'
please state what that connection is, and howkept up: O
f what nature is the
intercourse between them, and how carried on? Are all he masonic fraterni­
ties in this country and Europe, or any part of Europe] subject to one com­
mon head or power? Please to state minutely and full all you know of any
such masonic connection, intercourse, subordination and/overnment. Dp you
know at what times and in wbat country or countries bo higher degrees in
masonry, from royal arch upwards, and inclusive of r/al arch, originated,
when they were introduced into this country, and whennto this State ? If so,
please to state particularly. / '
27th. Is it the custom of lodges when a member jfexpelled tq/gire notice
thereof to other lodges in other states? I
28th. Has your lodge, chapter or encampment erqreceived any communi­
. ' / Digitized by Google -
10
cation from any ledge in the State of New-York, notifying it of the ex­
pulsion of any member on account of his having been concerned in the abduc­
tion, or in the murder of Wm. Morgan? Have you heard of any such commu­
nication having been made to any other lodge, chapter or encampment in this
State or in any other State? If so, what was the character of that commune
cation?
29th. When the expulsion of a member is communicated from one lodgeto
others, what is the order taken thereon.
30th. Has any lodge, or chapter, or encampment in this State, to your
knowledge, received any communication from any lodge, chapter or order, of
masonry in New-York, upon the subject of the abduction or killingofMorgan;
and ifso, what was the purport of such communication? ,
31st* Is it not according to masonic usage, that any mason not an unwor­
thy one, shall be at all times freely received in every lodge as a visiting
"brother? 2d. When any mason or masons in other states, especially if con-
spieuous ones, are found to have been guilty of any great crimes, is it not usu­
al for lodges to pass some resolution to guard against the intrusion of such
guilty masons?
32d. Has your lodge, chapter, encampment, or any other lodge or masonic
body, to your knowledge, passed any resolution disapproving the conduct of
those masons who were concerned in the Morgan business, or any vote forbid­
ding the reception of any of those guilty masons in any such lodge or masonic
body?
33d. Have you ever heard a mason of respectable standing in society, jus­
tify or palliate the abduction or killing of Morgan; if so, who was he, when
was it, what was the occasion and manner ofexpression? Did it appear to be
the deliberate opinion or sentiment of the speaker, or was it said in the
warmtlfof debate or by way of retort? Had there been any thing previously
M id in accusation of masonry or masons?
34th. Are the hooks of records and by-laws whichyou have here submitted
to the inspection of the committee, all the books belonging to or kept by the
lodge?
35th. Are the funds, or receipts, or fees of lodges or chapters, or any of
them, diverted tothe use of general grand chapters, general encampments or
other masonic btdies?
36th. Does n*t a mason upongoing into or leaving a lodge, or chapter, or
encampment, make a sign recognizing or haviog reference to, and indicating
the penalty of tinoath taken in his particular degree, and appropriate to the
occasion, to theledge or to the masonic body he enters or leaves?
37th. If freemasonry is merely a charitable institution, what is the object
of so many degree, by means of which the various classes of masons have,
secrets to keep no\only fromthe world, but from each other?
38th. Have yousver known any contribution or advance of any kind to be
made by any masaic bodies or individuals in this State or elsewhere, or any
proposal or suggestin leading to any such advance or contribution, the object
of which was to furoshrelief to any one concerned in the Morgan affair?
39th. Do you knw by whom the higher degrees of masonry, viz. those
above the three firs degrees, were introduced into this country, and when
and how—when, hov and by whominto this State? *
E
INTRROGATORIES PUT BY REQUEST.
Haro yap ever herd the expressions in the following nine extracts from
Allyn’s Ritual, adminiered in any lodge or chapter?
1st. “ Furthermoreo I promise and swear, that I will not give the grand
Digitized by b o o g i e
11
bailing sign ofdistress ofibis degree, except I am in real distress, or for the
benefit ofthe craft, when at work; and should I see that sign given, or hear
the words accompanying it, I will fly to the relief of the person so giving it,
should there be a greater probability of saving his life than losing myown.”—
Page 71.
2d. “ Furthermore do I promise and swear, that I will not speak evil of a
brother'mason, neither behind his,back or .before his fece, but m il apprise
him oj all approaching d a n g e r —p . 72.
3d. “ Furthermore do I promise and swear, that a master mason’s secrets
given to me in chaise as such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my
breast as inbis, before communicated, murder and treason only excepted; and
they left to my only election.”—p . 72.
4th. “ Furthermore do I promise and swear, that 1 will goon a masterma­
son’s errand, even barefoot and bearheaded, to save his life or relieve his ne­
cessities —p . 72.
5th. “ Furthermore do I promise and swear, that if any part ofthis obliga­
tion be omitted at this timeKI will hold myself amenable thereto whenever in­
formed; to all which,” &c.—p. 73.
Royal Arch Oath.—6tn. “ 1 furthermore promise and swear, that I
will not speak the grand cmnific royal arch word, whieh I shall hereafter re­
ceive, in any manner, except in that in which I shall receive it, which will be
in the presence of three companion royal arch masons, myself making one of
the number; and then by three times three, under a living arch, and at low
breath.”
7th. **I furthermore promise and swear, that I will not speak etil of a
companion Foyal arch mason behind his back nor before his face, but will ap­
prise him of all approaching danger, if in my power.”
8th. '* I furthermore promise and swear, that I will assist a companion:
royal arch mason when I see him engaged in any difficulty, and will espouse
his cause so far as to extricate him from the same, whether he be right or
wrong ! I97
9th. “ I furthermore promise and swear, that I will keep aft fa t secrets of
a companion royal arch mason, when communicated to me as dueh, or I know­
ing them to be such, without exceptions,* (or murdeF and treason not except­
ed.) Or “ I will keep all the secrets of a companion royal arch mason.”
10th. “Twelve once were highly lov’d,
But one a Judas prov’d,
Put out his fire;
May Simon haunt all fools,
Who vary from our rules, * .
May the heads of all such tools
Rest high on spires.”—Crossfs Chart, p. 105 &
. 106.
11th. In the obligation of the royal arch degree, as read to you from pa-
permarked B, is this sentence:
7th. “ That I will not give the grand royal arch word in any manner ex­
cept that in which I may receive it.”
Is the manner there referred to *the same described in this obligation a»
given in Allyn’s Ritual, viz. “ in the presence of three companion royal arch
masons, myself making one ofthe number, and then by three times three un­
der a living arch, and at low breath?”
Past Master’s Obligation. 12th. Is the penalty in this degree ever
*1 have Men this point in the oath given in three different ways; that If, the phrase­
ology of the sentence varied, but it always covers or comprehends murder and treason,
sometimes it is expressed, murder and treason not excepted.—Altyn>
Digitized by G o o g l e
IS
given thus:—“ Binding myself under no less penalty thanto havemy tenges
split from tipto root?”
Knight of the Red Cross.—13th. Is this a part of the obligation:—
‘That I.will assist him, on a lawful occasion, in preference to ang brother
Of an inferior degree, and so far as truth, honor and justice may warrant?”
14tb. In the obligation of knight of the red cross^ is t$ie expression used in
the penalty, “ until the last trump shall sound,” or “ when the last trump
shall sound?”
15th. In the knight templar's obligation is this, expression used* “ with a
fixed and steady purpose of mind to perform the same, without any hesitation,
equivocation, mental reservation or self evasion of mind in me whatever?”
16th. Do these or similar words occur in any part of the ceremony or ini­
tiation ofa Ifnight templar: “ This pure wine I now take in testimony of m
y
belief in the mortality of the body and the immortality of the soul, and may
this libation appear as a witness against "me both here and hereafter. And
as the sins of the world were laid upon the head of the Saviour, so may all
the sins committed by. the person whose skull this was, be heaped upon,my
head, in addition to my own, should I ever knowingly or wilfully violate or
transgress any obligation that I have heretofore taken, or take at this time,
in relation to any degree of masoBry or order of knighthood. So help me
God?” &c.
DEPOSITIONS.
I Pliny Merrick, of Worcester, in the State of Massachusetts, counsellor
at law, do testify and say, that sometime in the course of the winter of
1820—21, as nearly as I can recollect, I was admitted a member of the
masonic lodge held in the town of Taunton, in the countyof Bristol, as I un­
derstood by virtue of a charter from the grand lodge of the State of Massa­
chusetts: that until my removal from Tauntoiy, which was in the summer of
1824, I occasionally attended the meetings of the lodge; and during some
part of the time, frequently. I was admitted in that lodge to the degrees of
entered apprentice, fellow craft, and master mason. In the summer of 1824,
as nearly as I can recollect, I was admitted to the degrees of mark master,
past master, most excellent master, and the degree of royal arch mason, in
Adoniram chapter in Attleborough, in the county of Bristol, in this State:
that I took the four last mentioned degrees in one afternoon and evening, and
have not since to my recollection been in any chapter in the county of Bristol.
I removed to the town of Worcester, where I now reside, in the summer
of 1824, and afterwards attended occasionally the meetings of the fraternity
in this place. During roy absence fromtown on one occasion, I was elected
to the office of high priest; which is the highest office in the chapter: On be-
inginformed of my election to that place, which was wholly unexpected, I
consented to accept; and Dr. Benjamin Chapin of Worcestef, who bad been
the former high priest, agreed to make me acquainted with all the forms,
ceremonies, oaths and obligations of the several degrees of the chapter; and
I accordingly visited him several times and learnt the same from him, and
committed the same to memory. I attended several meetings of the chapter
during the first part ofthe year, and discharged tbe duties of my office. Be­
sides the communications made to roe by Dr Chapin, I have heard him re­
peat the oaths in the chapter as its presiding officer. During the last half
y$ar on which I was elected to office I believe I was not once present at any
meeting; %
and I have not been I believe in any meeting of the masonic.fra­
ternity since, except that I once wont in for a few moments for the pupose of
teeing a gentleman whoI understood was there. On one occasion after my
admissionto tbs chapter, I beard Mr. Gleason, who was introduced to ms ss
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
15
the grand lecturer, employed by the grand lodge of the State, to teach the
lectures ofmasonry, repeat the royal arch mason’s oath. These are all the
opportunities which I have had by attendance on lodges and chapters, of as-*
certaining what were its oaths or obligations. I was however once 'present
at a meeting of the grand chapter of this State in Boston, but I do not rec­
ollect that the oath ofthe degree was repeated.
The several obligations ofthe three first degrees of freemasonry were for­
merly quite familiar to me, from having frequently heard them repeated in the
lodge meetings at Taunton. These obligations are faithfully given in a book
called “ Light on M asonryby David Bernard. I do not mean to state
that the exact expressions which I heard in lodge meetings are given; be­
cause the words used were not precisely the same on different occasions; but
I mean to state, that the oaths as given in the book referred tofare substan­
tially the same with those which I often heard administered to initiates by the
presiding officers of the lodge. I do not mean herein to specify all the varia­
tions which, on the perusal of that book, have occurred to me; but I state
those which seem to me in any way material. I do not recollect to have
beard in the lodge any such part of the master mason’s oath as the following,
viz. u I trill go on a master mason’s errand whenever required, even should
I have to go bareheaded, if within the length of my cable tow7
7
—a if any part
ofthis my solemn oath or obligation he ommitted at this time, I will hold my­
selfamenable thereto whenever informed7
7 With these exceptions, I«do not
kpow of any variations between the oaths of these three degrees as I for­
merly heard them in the lodge, and as I find them in the book before refer­
red to, which seem to me inany way essentially to affect the sense.
I do not distinctly recollect the oaths and obligations of the four degrees of
mark master, past master, most excellent master, and royal arch mason, as
they were administered to me at my initiation at the chapter inAttleborough.
Owing to the great variety of the ceremonies through which I passed on that
day, anchthe great number of the parts of the several oaths, it was impossi­
blefor me to retain a distinct recollection of the whole. Besides this, when
theroyal arch oath was administered to me, I was very miffh overcome, both
by the previous fatigue I had undergone, and the nature and character of the
obligation, and becoming faint was removed from the roombefore its adminis­
tration was finished. On my recovery I returned to the room of the chapter,
and passed through the remaining ceremonies; but I have ho recollection that
the remaining part ofthe oath was administered. Among the persons present
onthat occasion, 1 recollect Mr. John Baylies of Taunton.
I believe that the oaths and obligations of the four degrees of mark mas­
ter, past master, most excellent master, tfnd royal arch mason, are given in
the book before mentioned, substantially, as I learnt and heard them admin­
istered as before mentioned. The words used are not in every particular
precisely the same in that book as I recollect to have beard them in the chap­
ter; but I do not know of any variation which materially affected the sense
inany other particular than those which I shall mention hereafter.
I distinctly recollect that the following expression was made use of in the
chapter, as a part of the royal arch oath; viz: “I will espouse the cause of a
toyedarch companion when in any difficulty, so jar as to extricate him from
the same, if in my power, whether right or wrong.’7 I never heard any ex­
planation of that clause in the chapter. On one occasion, when that part of
the oath was repeated to a person then passing through the ceremonies of init­
iating, he hesitated and asked if it could be so; a reverend companion stand­
ing by replied, that it was, and advised him to go on, and it would be ex­
plained to him. He did go on, but I heard no explanation given.
I do not recollect to have ever heard the following words, or any similar
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
14
thereto, introduced in anyof the obligations or any of the degrees of freem
t*
sonrras they were administered, via: “/ will promote a companion royalarck
mason's political preferment, in preference to anotherof equal qualificwim,M
Tbe following clause makespart of the obligationofa royal archmasonasI
have beard it administered; viz: UA companion royal arch mason's tecrdt
given me in charge as such, and 1 knowing them to be such, shall remainat
secure and inviolable in my breast a) in his own." To these words 1believe
are also added “Murder and treason not excepted" With respecttothese
last words, I must say, that at this time, my recollection is not so perfect,ts
to enable me to speak with absolute certainty. Formerly, after I had left
visiting the chapter, I had no doubt on this point. .But in conversation
which I have not unfrequently since had with adhering members of them
a­
sonic institution, their frank admission of the accuracy ofthe disclosuresofthe
masonic obligations, as contained in the book I have referred to on other
points, and their earnest and apparently sincere denial ofits accuracy onthis
point, has led me to-doubt whether my recollection was perfect. I hare tax­
ed my memory to the utmost ofmy power, and I can now only say, that w
hile
I do not feel certain, I yet believe that the words “murder and treasonnot
excepted" were used; but this belief is founded on a variety of consideration
distinct from a precise recollection of the fact. AH those members of the
masonic fraternity who denied the use of the words last quoted, inthe conver­
sations to which 1 have alluded, stated that the following words wereusedis
their stead, viz: ltmurder and treason only excepted, and those left tosty
election"
The check degree, as it is sometimes called, and I believe usually,! never
heard repeated and Explained but once, by any member of the masonic frater­
nity. Being in Boston, I accidentally met one John Homans, nowresident
in that city, near the old court house. He asked me to walk into the o
ffice
of Mr. Powers, the then grand secretary of the grand lodge of M
assacho*
setts. After some conversation, Mr. Powers proposed to communicate and
explain this degree or ceremony to us, and accordingly did so. The explana­
tion was the same which is given in the eighty-sixth page of Mr. Bernard*)
“Light on masonry.” I have since it was communicated to me, heard it
spoken of by members of the institution as a matter added to its ceremonies,
hut I have never since heard it repeated.
And further this deponent sa\£h not. P liny Maamct.
Worcester, ss. On the fifth day of December in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and thirty-one, the aforesaid deponentwas examined,
and cautioned, and sworn, agreeably to law, to the deposition aforesaid, by
him subscribed, taken at the request of William Sprague, junior, and tobe
used before a committee of legislature of the State of Rhode Island, the resi­
dence of the deponent in tbe State of Massachusetts, is the cause of taking
this deposition. * Isaac Davis, Justice of the Peace.
Moses Thacher sworn. I reside in Wrentham, Massachusetts. I ama
clergyman by profession. I have been a freemason. I have taken seven
degrees, viz.: entered apprentice, fellow craft, master mason, mark master,
past master, most excellent master, and royal arch.
I took the three first degrees in St. John’s Lodge No. 2 in Providence in
1826-7. I took tbe four succeeding degrees in the Providence* royal arch
chapter in Providence in the summer of 1827.
1 took a distinct oath in each of the several degrees, I can repeat the
oath substantially inthe first degree. I don’t knowthat I can give the lan­
guage verbatim. The oath so far as I can recollect is substantially this—
I
was made to kneel and clasp the sacred writings in this form, placing the
Digitized by Google
16
tands one under and the other over the book. Before taking the oath the
jaster said to me, this oath will not interfere with yourpolitics or religion;
are you any objection to taking this oath? On signifying my assent, he
old me torepeat the oath after him, calling my own name. (1 don’t recollect
•recisely the expressions which he used, 1 have repeated them substantially.)
le then proceeded to administer the oath by sentences; I was entirely igno-
aqt of the oath masonically. I found afterwards that I had before seen the
atb in a book called Morgan’s Illustrations. I proceeded after the master
,nd said—I Moses Thatcher, of my own free will and accord, in the pres-
ince of Almighty God, and this worshipful lodge of free and accepted masons,
ledicatedto God, and held forth to the holy order of St. John, do hereby and
iereon, most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, 'that 1 will always
tail, ever conceal and never reveal any art or arts, part or parts, point op
toints, of the secrets, arts and mysteries, of ancient freemasonry, which I
live heretofore received, am about to receive, or may hereafter be instructed
n, toany person or persons in the known world, except it be to a true and
awful brother mason, (I think is the mode of expression) or in the body of a
law
fullyconstituted lodge of such, and not unto himor unto them whomI shall
bear so to*be, but unto him or unto them whom I shall find so to be, after
stricttrial, close examination, or lawful information; I furthermore promise and
swear, that. I will not write, print, stain, stamp, hew, cut, carve, engrave or
iadeat it upon any thing moveable or immovable, under the whole canopy of
heaven, whereby or whereon, the least letter, figure; mark, character, stain,
shadow, or resemblance of the same, shall become legible or intelligible to
mjself-or any other person, whereby the secrets of freemasonry may be un­
lawfully obtained through my unwortbiness; to all which I do most sincerely
andsolemnly promise and swear, without the least equivocation, mental re­
serration, or secret evasion of mind, in me whatever; binding myself under
do lesspenalty, than to have my throat cut across, (the master at "this time
drewthe handle of his mallet, as I afterwards found it to be across my
throat,) my tongue torn out by the roots, and my body buried in the rough
sands of the sea, at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in
twentyfour hours.' The oath closet, I believe, in the legal form, so help me
God,andkeep me steadfast in the due performance ofthe same.
Theoath which I took on receiving the degree of fellow craft, I can not
repeatverbatim. The oath which is read to me from Allyn’s Ritual is sub­
stantially the same which 1 took on receiving the degree of fellowcraft. I
didnot understand at the time of taking this degree, what is meant by the
w
ordcable tow. I have since understood it mystically to mean a certain
distance within which the mason is bound to obey a summons, and that in the
master’s degree I have understood it to be three miles. I will point out
som
eof the differences between the master’s degree and the preceding de­
grees. The candidate swears in addition to the former obligations that he
w
illnot give the master mason’s word to any but to masons of the same de­
gree: and he swears that he will not give it except upon the' five points of
fellow
ship when it is given, and then not above his breath; be swears like­
w
iseinthis degree that he wiH not give the grand hailing sign of distress, ex­
cept he is in real distress; and when he sees that sign given, or hears the
w
ordsaccompanying it, he swears to flyto the reliefof the person giving the
signor uttering the words, unless there is a greater probability of losing his
lifethan of saving the life of the person in distress. The candidate in this
degreealso swears that he will not speak evil of a brother master mason ei­
therbefore his face or behind his back, and that be will warn him ofall ap­
proachingdanger if in his power. Another addition is in substance as fol­
low
*—
that the secrets of a brother master mason given to him in charge as ^
Digitized by Google
16
such and he knowing them to be snch, shall remain as inviolable in his ow
a
breast as in the breast of the,person communicating them to him, murder and
treason only excepted, and these left at his election. The penalty in this
oath varies from the penalty in the preceding degrees; the body is to be se­
vered in two, in the midst, and the bowels burnt to ashes, and the ashes scat­
tered before the four winds of heaven, (this is the substance of the penalty; I
am not positive as to the precise phraseology.) The candidate also shears
in this degree that he will not Violate the chastity of a master mason’s w
ife,
mother, daughter or sister, knowing them to be such, nor suffer it to be done
by others, if in his power to prevent it; in addition to the words in the penally i
“my bowels burnt to ashes,” 1 think are substantially added, and ‘‘the ashes j
scattered befoce the fourwinds of heaven, that there may not the least trace !
or remembrance remain among men or masons, of so vile and purjnred a wretch
as I should be were 1 guilty of violating any part of this my solemn obligation. ;
The obligation of mark master mason inAllyn’s Ritual is substantially the
same oath which 1 took on receiving this degree, 1 think there is some differ­
ence in the phraseology, and some difference in relation to the mark andJew­
ish shekel. ]
The obligation of past master mason in Allyn’s Ritual is substantially the 1
same oath which was administered to me. I don’t recollect that part dfthis t
obligation respecting giving a lecture was administered to me. In other re- |
spects the oath is substantially the same, as the oath administered to m
e,
and I cannot say positively that this part of the obligation was not adminis­
tered to me.
The obligation of most excellent master mason inAllyn’s Ritual is substan­
tially tike same oath which was administered to me, so far as I recollect. .
In the master mason’s obligation I swore togo on a master mason’s errand '
and to remember all master masons when on my knees offering up my devotions I
before Almighty God. * !
The obligation in the*royal arch degree in Allyn’s Ritual, is substantially ,
the same as the oath administered to me. I am confident that I was to as- I
sist a royal arch mason when in any difficulty, and extricate him from the ■
-same, if iq mypower. I have no recollection that any kind of difficulty was 1
excepted. I have no recollection of the words u right or wrong,” being ad­
ministered to me, or any words equivalent to them, I am sure the words 1
right or wrong were not in the oath administered to me. The words “ with- j
out exception,” in relation to revealing the secrets of a royal arch mason, I
think were not administered to me. I do not recollect that the expressions
in relation to employing a oompanion royal arch mason in preference to an­
other personwere or were not administered to me. To the best ofmyrecollection
I swore to keep all the secrets ofa companion royal arch mason committed to
me as such, and I knowing them to be such. I do not recollect of/any ex­
ceptions in this respect as in the other degrees.
The words, murder and treason not excepted, were not administered to me.
The penalty I recollect distinctly. I do not recollect any further material
variation.
I have taken a degree in masonry called the check degree* After I bad
taken the three first degrees in masonry, which I took in one evening, the
master said to me, that before I left the ball it was necessary for roe to take
an oath in consequence of a book which had been published, revealing the se­
crets of masonry; he stated it was necessary for me to do this in orderto vis­
it other lodges; and he said, “ if other folks get our keys, we must put on
new locks.” The oath was then administered to me. I do not recollect the
phraseology; the substance w&s,that I will not give the word or sign except
in a lodge or at the door of a lodge. The injunction was given that the word
Digitized by Google
17
should not be conversed upon except when absolutely necessary, as it was in­
tended as &key. After taking the oath,he gave me the word and sign which
were to enable me to visit other lodges. I never made use ofit but once—I
did once. There was no corporeal penalty attached to this oath as I recol­
lect. I think the penalty consisted in being disgraced or expelled. After
taking each of the two first degrees, a charge was read to me. The charge
read to me I think is substantially the same as the charge in Webb’s Moni­
tor, printed in New-York, 1802, pages 46, 47 and 48. I have heard this
eharge frequently read in the lodge. So far as I recollect my impressions
were that this charge was binding on me in connexion with my masonib ob­
ligations. My attention was at that time more particularly turned to what
are called the secrets of masonry, than to what I knew I could examine at my
leisure.
The charge in Webb’s Monitor, Salem edition, 1816, 62d page, was read
to me, I think. The charge on the third degree, 71 page, same book, is
usually read ; I have] heard it read to others on taking this degree—do not
recollect whether it was read to me or not on taking the third degree. The
word celebrated Artist mentioned in the charge of page 72, Webb’s Mon­
itor, is understood to mean Hiram Abiff, the widow’s son, whom the candi- „
date is understood to represent.
The charge in Ahiman Rezon, page 81, was not read to me. This book
written by Li Durmot, called Ahiman Rezon, is not to my knowledge a '
standard work in any of the New^England lodges. I do not know (masoni-
cally, that it is a standard work in any lodge. Webb’s Monitor written by
Thomas Smith Webb, is a standard work in masonic lodges, this is in some
measure superceded by Cross’s chart 1 dont know of Cross’s chart being
used in the lodges in this state. Webb’s Monitor and Cross’s chart are indis­
criminately used in lodges.^|I knew of no essential difference or any dis­
crepancy between Mr. Webb’s Monitofand Mr. Cross’s chart.
I published an address to the Grand lodge of Rhode Island, dated Sep­
tember 1st, 1831. I think I saw the same address published in the Micro­
cosm, a paper printed io Providence. I think I also saw in ihe same paper
the address of Caleb Sayles to the public, purporting to be an answer to my
address.
The pamphlet shewn to me,entitled “ an address to the church and congre­
gation, under the care of the author on his seceding from the masonic insti­
tution, by Moses Thatcher, Pastor, of the church at North Wrentham,” is the
s&
rae address published by me ; and that the pamphlet shown to me, entitled
“ letters addressed to a brother in the church, on renouncing the secret prin­
ciples ot freemasonry, in answer to the three communications from him on the
same subject, by Moses Thatcher, pastor of the church at North Wrentham,”
was also published by me.
1 have perused Allyn’s Ritual with considerable attention as far as the
three first degrees; the mode of initiation, ceremonies and manner ofworking,
are substantially the same as I have seen practised in masonic lodges ; the
signs, grips, words and what ’are called the secrets of masonry stated in
Allyn’s Ritual, are substantially the same as have been delivered io me, and
at I have seen practised in masonic lodges.
I have attended the lodges in Providence, one inmyown neighborhood, and
one in a neighboring town ; and I once attended the Grand lodge in Boston.
I attended the lodge in Providence only when I received the* lower degrees ;
I received the higher degrees in the same hall. The lodges which I have
visited, substantially agreed in their ceremonies and manner of working ;
3
Digitized by Google
18
I speak in reference to the three first degrees. I was never in the chapier
after taking the royal arch degree.
I have no recollectionvwhether the suggestion that the oath of the royal
arch degree would not interfere with my religion or politics was or was not
raade to me before taking said oath. I never saw it administered to others;
I had not Morgan’s illustrations of masonry inmy pocket when I appeared at
the lodge to take the degrees. All the degrees were conferred on me on ac­
count of my profession, gratuitously. I did not consider myself bound by raj
maspnic oaths tffavour a mason to the personal or pecuniary injury of a fel­
low citizen who was not a mason. While a member of the lodge I did sot
know of any higher punishment inflicted for violation of masonic obligations,
than expulsion; nor had any personal knowledge of any person being expelled.
1 heard the subject of masonic penalties once discussed in St. Alban’s
lodge, Wrenthafti, on the 13th of May, 2829, which was the* last time I
attended any lodge. Masons present who had taken the higher degrees, ex­
cept one, said nothing on the subject ; masons who had taken the lower de­
grees gave their opinions on the subject variously. The question ofinquiryio
this lodge was, “ in what light are masonic penalties to be considered
- and*there was no vote taken on this question. This ^ras an open lodge ;
Simeon Thompson, Jr., presided that evening, Josiah J. Fisk, Rev. Luther
Wright, Anson Mann, Samuel Druce, and Asa Ware, Jr., acting as Secre­
taries, were present ; there were other persons*present ; the subject was in­
troduced as the matter of inquiry, there was no motion on the subject. One
member explained the subject in this way, “ that the candidate swears, (bat
rather than reveal his masonic secrets he would suffer so and so*” 1 do not
recollect that any member expressed an opinion that there were higher penal­
ties than expulsion. While a mason I did not vote for or, support any per­
son for office on account of his being a mason ; nor did I consider myself
bound so to do by my masonic obligations. I do not recollect that any m
a­
sonic obligation was ever administered to me that would literally oblige m
e
to vote foi^a mason. I do not recollect of any political question being dis­
cussed in a lodge, or a nomination for political office being made. I never
knew personally a public officer to discharge a person accused ofa crime onhis
making himself known as a mason. At the time of taking the n. .sonic obli­
gations I bad no time to consider whether I could conform to them, and at
the same 'time conformto my civil and religious duties after mature delib­
eration I came to the conclusion that these obligations would interfere w
ith
my politics aBd religion ; and this conclusion was formed after I had taken
all the degrees which I ever took. I supposed the oaths were in theroselm
unlawful, and so far I considered them as conflicting with my religion. 1
considered that I had no moral right to bind myself under a barbarous penal­
ty to keep secrets of;the nature of those of masonry. 1 supposed that raj
masonic oath might, under certain circumstances conflict with &judicial oath,
particularly that part of the oath which binds a mason to keep masonic
secrets, murder and treason only excepted, and these left at his election. 1
might be called to testify against a masonic brother where my masonic oat|i
bound me nbt tojtestify—that part of the oath whichbinds a masonto warn bis
brother mason of all approaching danger ; he might be in danger of being ar­
rested as a thief, my masonic oath would bind me to warn him of his danger
that he might escape. I understand that the words in the master mason’s
oath, “ I will not speak evil of a brother master mason, neither behind bis
back nor before his face, but will apprize him of all approaching danger, ifio
my power,” would require me to aid a masonic brother who had committed
theft or any other crime less than murder or treason, to escape from punish-
meat and to screen him from punishment. The words in my masonic obliga-
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
19
tton, “ that I will not give the grand hailing sign of distress, of this degree,
unless.I am in real distress, or for the benefit of the craft when at work, and
ifI should see that sign given or hear the word accompanying it, I 'will fly to
the relief of the person giving it, should there be greater probability of saving
his life than losing my own,” would Tconsider, if I were on a jury, and a
brother mason on trial should give this sign, require me to afford him reliefif
it were in my power. I might afford him relief by preventing a verdict, or
by influencing a verdict in his favor. This would be my conclusion if I were
to construe my masonic oaths literally, and I knew of no other way of constru­
ing an oath. I never knew personally, any mason being*ajudge, juror, or
other public officer to put this construction upon masonic obligations, or to
practise upon this construction. I never knew the grand hailing sign of dis­
tress given by any man on trial to any judge, juror, or sheriff ; I never have
been in a court of justice to my recollection, when any person has been on
trial, since I have been a mason.
I never heard the masonic oaths explained when administered. The fig­
ure and representation ofthe burning bush inpage 33, of the masonic chart by
Jeremy L. Cross, is a correct figure and representation, and the explanation
ofthe same on page 148, of Allyn’s Ritual is substantially correct. I wit­
nessed the same representation at the time I was admitted to the royal arch
degree, except that I do not recollect of being requested to kneel down.
[Further interrogatories put to Moses Thatcher.] 1st, Before the sever­
al oaths were administered to you had you endeavored to ascertain as far as
possible what you would be required to swear to ?
2d. When taking the oaths did you strictly attend to them and endeavour
fully to comprehend their meaning, and what were the obigations you were
taking upon yourself ?
3d. Did you at the time understand the oaths you took, or was you "then
satisfied that you did understand them.—Had you any doubts—did you fnake
any inquiries before or at the time of taking the oaths.
4th. Did you reflect after you had taken each oath uj?on the nature and
extent of it ?—And upon reflection were you satisfied: or if not satisfied did
you complain or object.
5th. When you took the general oatbs, was it your understanding that
youthereby, as far as you could, gave jurisdiction and authority to the lodge
toexecute upon you the penalties expressed in said oatbs severally, that is to
take your life in the manner expressed in said oaths .respectively ; and did
youconsider that yourself, as a member of the lodge, was to share in the
lame power and jurisdiction over others
6th. What do you consider the secrets or mysteries of masonry. Do you
know of any others than those disclosed in Allyn’s Ritual or Bernard's light
onmasonry?
7th. Are the constitutions and by-laws of the lodge printed and published.
Are there any secret by-laws.
8th. Do you know of any oaths or obligations taken by masons up to the
seventh degree other than those you have specified?
9th. When you took the oaths did you consider any ofthem incompatible
with your religious, moral or soeial obligations?
IOth. You say in your address to grand lodge, that you had a conversation
witha respectable mason in Providence, concerning reports from the west,
w
ho assured you that it was nothing but a political manouvre. Who was that
gentleman^apd what gentleman conversed with you about taking three de­
grees at once?
11th. In the same address you say that masons of high standing in the
lodge and chapter, repeatedly declared that if Morgan was put to death he
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
20
bad met bis deserved fate, and bad paid no more than the life which he had
forfeited, by the infraction of his oaths. Who were those masons of high
standing?
12th. In your said address you state a conversation with a Mr. Styles,
respecting the alleged murder of a man some years ago in or near Prori-
.dence, by the agency of the grand lodge of Rhode Island. Please nowto
relate minutely and fully, what‘that conversation was?
13th. You say you have seen Caleb Sayles address to the public, inas*
saver to your statement above. It appears by his address that he declared
your statements to be false and erroneous, in somematerial particulars^ Did
you in consequence write toMr. Sayles, or take any steps to have an explan­
ation with him? Did you confer with the other persons to whom, you sayin
your address, Mr. Sayles had made the same communication?
14th. Did you immediately communicate what Sayles had told you to the
grand lodge. Did you make any inquiries of them respecting the transaction.
Did you place any reliance in what Sayles ’
A
had given. How long did you
continue a mason after that conversation?
15th. You say above that the royal arcb mason’s oatb taken by you did
not contain the exceptions contained in the preceeding. •The exception in
the oath of a master mason is of murder and treason, the keeping ofwhich
secret is at the election of the candidate ;*this exception being omitted in
the ^royal arch mason’s oatb, did you construe that oath to mean that you
shouldkeep those crimes also secret.
16th. Has there been any difficulty in your church among the m
em
bers
upon the subject of masonry.
17th. Before you made your address to the church and congregation upon
the subject of your seceding, had it been intimated to you that it wouldbeex­
pected of you to secede?
18th. Have you related your said conversation with Sayles on any other
occasion than in your address to this grand lodge?
To the annexed interrogatories, I answer as follows:
Answer to 1st. Before I went to the lodge it did not occur to me that any
»atb would be required of me. I bad before this seen Morgan’s book, but con­
sidered it wholly spurious. After taking the first three degrees, I concluded
that an oath would be required on all tbe subsequent degrees.
IggAns. to 2d. When I was attending to taking the oaths I endqaved to com
­
prehend them as far as the circumstances in which I was placed would admit;
it required an effort to repeat them after the master.
Ans. to 3d. At the time I took the oaths I had no opportunity for refec­
tion, and was sensible that it would require considerable time to render the
oaths familiar; and when I left the lodge I did not immediately reflect onthe
meaning ofthe oaths which I had just taken. On leaving the lodge I tookit
for granted that tbe oaths were harmless, fromthe fact that men of principle
had taken these oaths. I did not turn my attention particularly to the oaths
until several months afterwards; and I also took it for granted that these
oaths were harmless because the master of tbe lodge had stated to me pre­
vious to administering the oaths, that they would not interfere with my relig­
ionor politics. The intelligence from tbe west respecting the Morgan affair,
and the disclosures of the Le Roy convention, lead me more particularly to at­
tend to these oaths. This I think was in the latter part of the summer of
1828. Upon reflecting on these oaths, in consequence of these occurreotts.
I did not immediately announce to the lodge my intentionto withdrawfromit.
I communicated my intention to the lodge to withdraw from them on the 18tb
ofMay, A. D. 1829, and at that time I stated to tbe lodge the principal rea­
sons which I had for withdrawing from them. The reason whyI did not im
-
D
igitizedb
yG o o g l e
SI
mediately announce to the lodge my intention of withdrawing, was that Iwaa
proceeding to investigate the subject, and wished to understand it thoroughly.
Ans. to 4th. I have already answered this question I think.
Ans. to 5tb. When I took these oaths i did not at that time consider that
I was givingjurisdiction to the lodge to indict the penalties of said oaths as
expressed in the question, because I did. not until some time afterwards give
serious attention to the import of these oaths, as I have before stated; that the
circumstances under which the oaths are administered reader it impossible for
the candidate at the time to take the real sense of them. I considerthe last
part of the question answered in the above statement.
Ans. to 6th. I consider that Allyn’s Ritual and Bernard’s Light on Ma­
sonry, contain all the secrets and mysteries of masonry up to the seventh de­
gree inclusive, sofar as I was initiated; I know of no others that are called
masonic secrets.
Ans. to 7th. The Book ofConstitutions, so called, is published; the lodges
have charters from the grand lodge which are written on parchment. The by­
laws of the lodge to which I belonged in Wrenthan, were written, and were
read in the lodge at stated times; this lodge had no other by-laws than those
whick were read to me, to the best of my knowledge and belief; as to the by­
laws of other lodges I have no information.
Ans. to 8th. I know of none.
Ans. to 9th. I consider this question as before answered.
Ans. to 10th. That gentleman was my uncle Moses Riebardson, of Provi­
dence. The gentleman alluded to in the last part of the question, was my
cousin William Emerson Cutting, of Providence,
Ans. to 11th. I had not heard myself any Mason express such an opinion;
I made that assertion in my address from information derived from others, up­
on whom I thought 1could rely; I stated it as any other historical fact: Mr.
Warren, a clergyman whonow resides in Plymouth, told me that he had beard
a high priest ofa chapter express an opinion tbatJVforgan had methis deserv­
ed fate. Mr. Warren told me that he was a mason, J never sat in a lodge
with him, Mr. Warren. He is nowa seceding mason—I had no knowledge
of his being a seceding mason at that time. Mr. Warren did not na~m
e the
high priest to me, and do not recollect that he mentioned any other person.
In addition to what Mr. Warren told me, I had also seen it stated in publi­
cations that other masons had made use of similar expressions.
Ans. to' 12th. The conversation was in substance as I have published it in
toy address. %
Ans. to 13th. I have never addressed Mr. Sayles on this subject, except
through the medium of the press. I did not confer with the other persons, to
whomI say in my address Mr. Sayles had made the same communication,
after Mr. Sayles replied to my address to the grand lodge—before that time
I had.—One of these persons was Dr. William W. Pride, of Gibson, Penn­
sylvania; and the other was the Rev. Luther Wright—these were the per­
sons who I said conversed with Mr. Sayles on this subject. Wr. Wright re­
sides in Holliston, Massachusetts. These persons were masons at the time
( conversed with them. I conversed with Doct. Pride in the summer or Au-
;unmof 1828, and with the other subsequent to that time. Mr. Sayles did
lot informme the name of the person alleged to be murdered by the grand
lodge: I think he Said that be belonged in one of the back towns of Rhode-
Island.
Ans to 14tb. I did not communicate what Mr. Sayles told me immediately
tothe grand lodge. I placed reliance on the account which Mr. Sayles had
riven to me. I continued a* mason four or five months perhaps after Mr.
Sayles made this communication to me. Mr. Sayles made this communica­
- D
ig
itizedb
yGoogle
tion to me in the latter part of summer or adfumn of 1828,1 think, I don't
recollect precisely the time.
Ans. to 15th. At the time the royal arch mason's oath was administered
to me I had no distinct impression or opinion, but on subsequent examination
i supposed the literal expressionand construction of the oath required thecon­
cealment of murder andtreason.
Ans. to 16th. In consequence of a case of church discipline of the church
of which I waspastor, a member who was a mason was dealt with and tried
before the church, upon the charges, one of abuse towards me in my family;
(this abuse charged related to masonry;) one for preparing or assisting to
prepare a report of St. Alban's Lodge, which was considered slanderous; and
the other for becoming angry and uttering contemptuous language in a church
meeting.
Ans. to 17th. No—it was neither intimated nor expected to my knowledge.
Upon being asked, the witness says, I do not recollect that, on taking the
master’s oath, these rtords, “ furthermore I dopromise and swear, that ii any
part of this obligation be omitted at this time, 1 will hold myself amenable
thereto whenever informed," Were administered to me. I have no distinct
recollection on the subject.
Ans. to 18th. I have made the same statement relative to this conversation
with Mr. Sayles, in a note to my address to my church and congregation before
referred to. I have not made this statement in any other publication of mine.
I made the statement verbally before the antimasonic convention in Philadel­
phia in Sept. 1830. - I saw a report of the proceedings ofthis convention, and
have bad it inmy possession; I saw in this report a statement relative to the
subject purporting to be the statement made in the convention by me. I have
ro recollection of havingmade this statement in any antimasonic convention in
Boston or Providence.
The foregoingdeposition, tothe best of myrecollection and belief, is true.
Moses Thacher.
Taken and subscribed December 7th, A. D. 1831.
JLevi Chace sworn. I reside in Troy, Fall-River, Massachusetts; am a
manufacturer, and a minister of the gospel. I have been a freemason; I am
not now. I have taken six degrees in masonry, up to the degree of roost ex­
cellent master, inclusive. 1 was made a mason in the Manchester lodge, in
Coventry, Rhode Island, in theavinter of 1815-16. I took three degrees in
this lodge; all that the lodge was authorized to confer. The othsr three de­
grees I received in the royal arch chapter, in Warren, Rhode Island, in the
fore part of the year 1822. I continued a mason until the year 1828; inthe
fall of that year, I think. An obligation was administered to meat the time of
taking each of these degrees. I cannot repeat the obligation in the first de­
gree; I could write the obligation on meditating on it; I can state the penalty.
The oath administered to ine, on taking the first degree in masonry by John
Greene, agent of the Warwick manufacturing company, in Warwick, and
then most worshipful roaster of the Manchester lodge, was substantially the
same oath nowread to me fromBernard's light on masonry, page 20. There
was no explanation of the oath given to me, until I was placed in a situation
to take the oath; I bad no knowledge before this that an oath ^vould be re­
quired. I was prepared previous to my taking the oath by beiag divested of
my apparel, excepting my shirt; a pair of drawers was provided and put on,
and I then was hood-winked by a bandage across my eyes, and then with a
cable towaround my neck, and my shirt was off of iny left arm, and ray left
breast naked; in this situation I was led into the lodge room. The other
ceremonies, until I came to the altar, were the same as are laid down in
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
Bernard’s light on masonry. Then I was informed by the worshipful master,
that I was placed in a proper situation to receive the oath, or obligation which
be informed me was not to infringe upon my religious or political sentiments;
he asked me if 1 was willing to receive it on that condition, the answer was,
that I was; then he ordered me to repeat my name, Levi Chace, and repeat
after him the oath which has before been read to me. A similar assurance,
the phraseology being a little different, was given to me on receiving each,of
the two next degrees. .
The oath now read to me from Bernard’s light on masonry, pages 44 and
45, is substantially the same oath which 1 took on receiving the degree of
fellow craft, with three variations; via: the first is when two cents in Bernard
is expressed one cent in my oath; second, the words “or square and angle of
my work,” were not administered to me; 3d, and the word “sohelp me God,”
instead of keep me God, were administered to me. The obligation ofa mas­
ter mason, now read to me from Bernard’s light on masonry, pages 61, 62
and 63, is substantially the same which I took in this degree, with these va­
riations; in the obligation which I took, were the words “and they left to my
own free will and choice, or election,” instead of “and they left at ray own
election,” in Bernard; and also the word “ ever” was left out in the oath
wbieh I took. I distinctly recollect that these words were administered to
me, “if any part of this my solemn oath or obligation be omitted at this time,
that I will hold myself amenable thereto whenever informed.”
The obligation in the mark master’s degree, now tead to me from Ber­
nard’s light on masonry, pages 98 and 99, is substantially the same as the
obligation which I took, except, I think, the word “swap” was not used.
The obligation in the past master’s degree, now read to me from Bernard’s
light on masonry, pages 109 to 111, is substantially the same as the obliga~
(ion which I took, except the words “keep me steadfast,” instead of make
mesteadfast, as in Bernard.
The obligation in the most excellent master’s degree, now read to me from
Bernard’s light on masonry, pages 120 and 1*1, is substantially the same ob­
ligation which I took in this degree.
After 1 was initiated into the first degree, a charge was read to me by the
master of the lodge; this charge was substantially the same, as the charge
now read to m? from Webb’s,monitor, New York edition, 1802, pages 46,
47 and 48. The charge was read to me from Webb’s monitor. I did not
consider some parts of this charge binding upon me, when it was delivered to
me; particularly that part which says “that no institution wa3 ever raised on
s better principle or more solid foundation, nor, were ever more excellent rules
and useful maxims laid down, than are inculcated in the several masonic lec­
tures.” This in the only part which I did not at that time consider binding.
I made no protest at that time against this part of the charge, to the lodge or
officer,presiding. The reason why I did not protest at that time against that
part of the charge, was, because that at my initiation, I hadbeen brought into
tbe lodge with a rope about my neck; \ consideredmyselfplaced in the situa­
tionof a slave at that time; as I was brought into this state offeeling that I
feared to protest.
Another reason why I did not considerthis part of the charge binding was,
that I had embraced the religion of the Son of God, which I considered far
superior to the masonic institution, and still do. The circumstance which
gave me that last impression was, that I was asked when at the altar—
“Whom do you believe in?” My answer was in Jesus Christ the Son of
God. i was checked and ordered to say, “in God.” This impressed my
mind that the institution wished to exclude the religion of tbe Son of God.
When I was checked I then replied “in God.” I consider that this was a
D
igitizedb
yG o o g l e
24
mere ontside form or garment. I did consider that by this expression they .
wished to exclude Jesus Christ, the Son ofGod, or the religion of the Savior.
When I replied Jesus Christ the Son of God, it was -not my intention to
exclude God and the Holy Spirit. _
[Questions by committee.'] 1st, Do you consider that the words “Jena
Christ the Sonof God” include God the Father, and the Holy Spirit? Adi.
I do not.
2d. Do you or do you not consider that the word God is equally appropriate
to God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost? and inclusive of
all? Ans. I do not in every sense of the word. j
The design to exclude Jesus Christ, apd the religion of Jesus Christ, w
hick t!
I before referred to, I impute to the masonic institution and not to the m
em
­
bers-of that institution; many ofwhom 1 esteem as Christians. Upon exam
i'
nation I am still of the opinion that the masonic institution excludes the
Christian religion, because I do not find the words Jesus Christ used in the six
degrees which I have taken. I never heard it explained in a masonic lodge,
that the scriptures were to bethe mason’s guide of faith and practice^ I have
heard portions ofthe Scriptures jead in the lodge. I never attended the m
a­
sonic lectures in a lodge, except those lectures used at the opening and closing
ofa lodge. I do not know whether in the lectures and instructions is lodges i
portions of the scriptures are read or not. I am not positive whether a
charge was read to me after taking the fellow craft’s degree or not; a charge
was read to me after taking the master’s degree. After hearing the charge
read, upon' receiving the master’s degree, it occurred to me, that it w
as »
not altogether systematical; hut I considered it binding so far as it did notcon­
flict with my religion. The charge read to me after the master’s degree w
as
the same in Webb’s Monitor, Salem edition, 1821, pages 68 and 69. The
part which I did not consider systematical is the first sentence of the charge
before referred to in Webb’s Monitor, page 68.
[Question by committee.] Have you ever read in Webb’s Freemason’s
.Monitor, in a grand master’s address to a master elect, at the installation,
.the following, as part of the address, viz.: “The Holy Writings^ that great
flight in masonry, will guide you to all truth; it will direct your paths to the
temple of happiness, and point to you the whole duty of man?” Ans. I have
-before this time and now.read (be same, I have never been present at the
installation ofa master.
Is it usual to give the same charge on conferring the past master’s degree, ]
-that is given *t the installatioa of a master of a lodge. Ans. I do not I
dcnow.
[Answer tofoUowing standing interrogatories marked D.] Ans. to 6th.
I never had, because I did not expect an oath would be administered; ifI had
I should not have appeared, nor would I have suffered what I did go through
for all the honorable gentlemen are worth. After 1 had taken the first de­
gree and found that an oath was administered, I endeavored to findout wheth­
er oaths would be required in the other degrees by inquiring of a brother ma­
son; and he said ah! brother you will be satisfied after taking the other two
degrees. After I had taken the three first degrees I did expeet that oaths
would be required in the higher degrees.
Ans. to 7th. I thiokl did as far as it was in my power,
Ans. to 8th. I am confident that I did not then understand the oaths as I
nowdo. The reason was the master gave one word or sentence at a time,
and I did not know what was to follow next. When the master came to the
words in the penalty, “have my throat cut across,” I stopped, be drew the
handle of his mallet or whatever be had in his hand across my^throat, and
told me to repeat, and then I repeated the tame word that he used. All the
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
25
-obligations are given in this manner, the master proceeds to state the oath in
the same manner, as if a school master or school mistress should say to a
child learning the alphabet A—and the child repeats A. The master in the
lodge states a word of'the obligation and the candidate repeats it; this is the
only way. At the time of receiving these oaths I had, and ever since I hav*
had doubts as to the propriety of administering such oaths. I made no in­
quiries before or at the time of faking the oaths. I am here speaking of
the oaths in the three first degrees.
Ans. to 9th.' I consider that the first part of the question is before an- '
swered. After taking the first oath I did reflect upon it before I took tha
second, and in consequence reflecting upon the first oath I inquired ofa broth­
er respecting further oaths as before stated ; upon this reflection I was not
satisfied with the first oath. In answer to a question, I say that after taking
the first oath and before taking the second, I made noInquiry relative to th<a
oath, except of the brother as before stated. After taking the other two
oaths i was not satisfied, I did not 'complain or object to these oaths while I
was a mason, because my masonic.obligations would not tolerate it, and I
was afraid the penalties of these obligations would be inflicted upon me. I
never afterwards attended that lodge. In the year 1816 I took the&aster’*
degree, and I took the degree of most excellent master in the year 1822. I
removed from Warwick in April or May, 1816, two or three months after
I was initiated.
[Questions by committee.] 1st. If you were dissatisfied with the threw
first oaths, and you thought it dangerous to complain, was there any thing in
your masonic oaths that prevented or made it dangerous for you to dissolve
your connection with the lodge—was there any thing in your oaths that forbidl
or prevented your complaining to the lodge, if so, what was it ?
Ans. I did cdnsider it at the time dangerous to secede. I then thought
there was danger of my complaining tothe lodge ; I thought that the part of
my obligation which forbids me to speak evil of a brother, either in the lodge
or out of it, and to keep the secrets of a brother inviolate, rendered it danger­
ous for me to complain to the lodge, for I could not speak against the insti­
tution without speaking against those supporting it.
2d. Was there any thing in your masonic obligations which compelled yov
to go on taking further degrees *
Ans. No, there was not.
3d, Were you asked these questionsbefore taking the first degree, viz:
you seriously declare upon your honor, before these gentlemen, that you arw
solely prompted to solicit the privileges of masonry by a favourable opinion
conceived of the institution, a desire of knowledge, and a sincere wish of
being serviceable to yoar fellow creatures *
? Do you seriously declare upoa
your honor, before these gentlemen, that you will cheerfully conform to all thw
ancient established usages and customs oftbe fraternity?”
Ans. I was asked these questions, and answered them in tbe affirmative.
4th. What was there in these questions which induced you to believe that
it was against your obligations to the lodge to complain to the lodge.
Ans. I considered that complaining to the ^lodge would be complaining
against the usages, customs, and obligations of the lodge. I had these ques­
tions in connection with other things on my mind when I said I thought that
there was danger in my complaining to the lodge.
5th. Did you consider the questions before referred to, and read to you on
your presenting yourself for the first degree ; the charges and oaths adminis*
tered to you, as all to be connected uin masonry, and equally binding upon
those who take them ; and did you so masonically consider them yourself,
when you took them.
4
Digitized by Google
26
Ans. I did so, masopically consider them after reflection, and do so consid­
er them at this time, and I consider them as explaining each other.
Ans. to 10th. At first I had not time to consider them, but afterwards on
mature deliberation and reflection I did consider the oaths of that nature.
Probably in the course of one year, I came to this conclusion. I then con­
sidered that I ought to be cautious in what I said against the institution.
Ans. to 11th. I know of none other.
.' Ans. to 12th. I do not know.
Ans. to 13th. I do not.
Ans. to 14th. I did, immediately*en reflecting upon them.
Ans. to 15th. I have before stated, when I took the degrees. I seceded
from the lodge in the year.1828. In the year 1827, I went frcm my resi­
dence in Dignton, to Pawtucket in the latter part of September. I was at
the house of Capt. Baker ; Elder Daniel GreeRe, of Pawtucket, came in
and said be wanted to speak with me ; he then, after we retired into a room
asked me if I had visited a lodge lately, and I told him no—1 did not know
that I ever should again ; he&en asked me if I knew that I could not get
into a ,lodge. I observed to him that I ^thought I could ; he observed that
he b^d reference to a particular circumstance that had taken place. I ask­
ed him what circumstance ? He observed that he had reference to Morgan’s
illustrations, a book so called ; that, on that account, the lodges, had passed
another degree or check word, in order to stop book-masons ; (having refer­
ence to the book before mentioned,) but observed, if you had been here last
evening, I could have vouched for you, and you could have taken the degree
or check word. I then asked him if that book was true, and he answered
with a nod of his head, i then asked him if Morgan was murdered, he said
he dare not say any thing to me on that subject, no otherwise than be would
there say to*me, no doubt he had suffered his just deserts according to his ob­
ligation, he then taking me by each arm said, “ 1 suppose that be bad his
choice." This was what first led me to a serious meditation, and to seeking
a fit opportunity tosecede. I then went home, and there secretly borrowed that
book. J read the book through, and found thattae oaths, obligations, -ani
enalties in that book, were in substance, the same as those conferred upon
le. This was the first operating cause which led me to seek an opportunity
jo secede. I publicly renounced masonry in the fall of 1828, by publishing my
renunciation in a newspaper, the Fall River Monitor. I considered that I
was then a master of the Manchester lodge from a notice I received last May.
I made no private communication to the Manchester lodge, because I was
afraid to before I came out publicly.
How many members did the Manchester lodge consist of ?
Ans. At the time of my initiation, the lodge consisted of between thirty
and forty members, and perhaps more. I don’t know how many members the
lodge had at the time I withdrew or seceded, or who the members were at
that time.
[Question by committee.] Were your brethren of the Manchester lodge,
with whom you have been acquainted at the time you was initiated, or at any
time since, men of such character that you should fear for your Ii*e, m case
you communicated to that lodge your inteation to withdraw, before you had
come out publicly.
Ans. The characters of the members of this lodge were fair ; I considered
them fair moral men, and some of them I hope are Christians. I could not
tell what their masonic obligations would lead them to do ; and therefore I
feared, to communicate to them my renunciation.
during* the twelve years that you was a mason, did you consider yourself
bound to execute such penalties uponothers?
Digitized by
27
Ans. I considered myself raasonically bound to perform all tbe oaths and ob­
ligations to the lodge, but not morally and virtually bound to execute such
penalties. t
Ans. to 16fb. I did not.
'Ans. to 17th. I never heard that, and I never knew personally of any pun­
ishment being inflicted by a lodge.
Ans. to 19th. I knew nothing*bout their deliberations, either one way or
the other. To the second part of the question I knew nothing about the de­
liberations of any lodge upon that subject.
Ans. to 20th. I considered masonically, that if the grand hailing sign had
been given to me in such a case, I should have been in duty bound to vote for
the mason ; the reason is, that the penalty of the obligation is, that I am
bound to go ona master mason’s errand, and to relieve himtf there is greater
probability of saving hjs life, than of loosing my own. I speak masonically,
as a free man, and exclusive of tbe masonic obligation, I should not vote for
tbe mason in such case, as a seceder 1 should not.
Ans. to 21st I should masonically. I never practised under such a con­
struction of my masonic obligations, for I never received tbe grand hailing
sigo.
Ans. to 22d. I never did ; to the latter part of the question I say, person­
allyI never did.
In answer to a question ; I never received.from others any information
which satisfied my mind that any such crimes have been committed by masons,
as mentioned in the 16th interrogatory.
Ans. to 25th. I have never frequented lodges in other States; but I have
received the same signs from masons from seven different states, {including
this State.
In answer to other questions, witness says, “ the reason why-I was not
admitted to the royal arch mason’s degree when I was propounded, was, that
there were not three candidates for admssision at the time appointed for my
admission ; and afterwards there was some mistake as to the time; and after
this I did not care about being admitted.”
You said that on taking the first degree in masonry, you considered its
nature deistical and irreligious. Did you receive afterwards any explanation
that satisfied you on that point, before you applied for the three last degrees
you took ?
t Ans. I never did.
At the time you applied for the three last ^degrees did you then consider
the three first as deistical and irreligipus ?
Ans. I did.
If these were your convictions at the time ofapplying for those last degrees,
what were your motives in applying for them ?
Ans. I was informed by a brother, tbe Rev. Thomas W. Tucker, a
Methodist preacher, that he had been dissatisfied in the lower degrees, but
was informed that the upper degrees were more agreeable to' the Christian’s
feelings, and be was goihg to take them, and thought I had better ; and a
book was placed in my hand, the purport fof which appeared to be more
agreeable to the Christian religion ; this book tvas a poem in praise of ma­
sonry, which book is now in the hands of Benjamin F. Hallett. Mr. Tucker
observed, that if I would take the higher degrees, the lodge would not require
the fee for the degrees, as I was a clergyman, and he said he thought I
should be satisfied. I mentioned to Mr. Tucker.my dissatisfaction with the
three first degrees on account oftheir irreligious tendency. Mr. Tucker said
that the Methocfist brethren in Bristol, whose minds were exercised on the
subject of religion were members of the lodge, many of them ; Mr. Tucker
Digitized by Google
*8
also laid, that after the lodge io Bristol had closed in the mark master's de­
gree, they would open the master’s lodge, and I should see how pleasant it
was. I attended, and they did open a master’s lodge and they satisfied my
mind.some, onthe subject of the higher degrees, for they had a pleasant time,
conversed on the subject of religion, and appeared to be good men. I now
think it was a catch and was not a regular lodge. I worked myself into the
lodge, in Bristol, and had no voucher i thought, I was not very bright, as a
mason, they said I was. I have conversed some with [the Rev. Wanton
Case on the subject of masonry, and expressed to him my dissatisfaction on
the three first degrees on account of their oath and irreligious tendency. He
had taken the higher degrees, did not incline to say much on the subject, said,
“ there were many men of many minds.” The subject cf my dissatisfaction
was not conversed about in the lodge.
When asked whether you considered your obligations binding, you hare
Several times qualified your answer by saying they were masonically bind­
ing. When you so qualify them, are we to understand that although masoni-
cally binding, you did not consider them morally and virtually binding?
Ans. I did not. I considered them of that nature that they ought not to
hind a freeman ; and where I have spoken of my obligations as masonically
binding, I cannot explain my meaning better than by repeating this part of
my obligation, in answer to this question : u I do promise and swear, that I
will always hail, ever conceal, and never reveal, any part or parts, art or
arts, point or points, of the secret, arts, and mysteries of ancient freemasonry,
which I have received* am about to receive, or may hereafter be instructed
in, to any person or persons in the known world, except it be to a true and
lawful brother mason. To all whkh, I do most solemfy and sincerely prom­
ise and swear without the least equivocation, mental reservation, or self eva­
sion ofmind in me whatever.”
If on any occasion while you 'were a mason, your masonic obligations had
come in direct conflict with your religious, your moral, br your social -obliga­
tions, with your duty toyour maker, to your country,for to your fellowcitizens,
which obligations should you have considered paramount, or of most biodiog
effect, and which should you have obeyed, your masonic, or your religious,
or moral, orsocial obligations ?
Ans. I should have obeyed my religious obligations even to the sacrifice of
my life, if required.
Have you heard any mason justify the murder of Morgan except Cider
Greene; ifso, who was the person, and where?
Ans. At a tavern about ten miles this side of Dedham, at the time of the |
first antimasonic convention held at Dedham, about three years ago, I heard i
a man say, if ever there was such a man as Morgan, and “ he had taken such
oaths as he had published, he was a damned perjured wretch, and deserved to |
be killed.” This man was an entire stranger to me; I did not knowhis name* ,
and he said he was a mason. Mr. Brayton Slade of Troy, Massachusetts* |
and Luther Lincoln ofNorton, Massachusetts, were present at this converse- i
tion. Mr. Lineoln observed that be must be careful what be said, that a sc- i
ceder was present. The man replied, that be did not believe there was a se-
ceder; but ifthere was, he was a perjured wretch, and deserved to die.
Quest. Had any mason seceded from any lodge in this State before you
did?
Ans. There was not to my knowledge.
Quest. How long was it after you was told ofthe murder of Morgan by ma­
sons, as you have before stated, before you seceded from masonry?
Ans. I had the conversation with Cider Greene sometime in September,
1827. I had heard of the death of Morgan before this, and had never se«a
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
any thing written on the subject; I .seceded I think inthe latter part of Octo­
ber or November, 1828. I made my mind known to my wife four or five
months before I seceded, and she persuaded me not to secede, from her fears
that I should be exposed to some injury. L evi O u .ce .
Abraham Wilkinson, havingtaken the affirmation, says, “I reside inNorth
Providence, and am a manufacturer; 1 am not a freemason, and never have
been, and I don’t think I ever shall be.
[Question by Committee.] Have you ever heard any mason or masons
Jexpress bis or their approbation of the killing of Morgan; if so, who were
they, what did they say, and on what occasions, and where?
Ana. After the news came to our village of the abduction of Morgan, on
several occasions I have heard masons speak on this subject; some would
justify the killing ofMorgan, and some would not: I have now but-one person
in my recollection whojustified the killing. This is Samuel Greene, then re­
siding in North Providence, but now of Smithfield. He said, that if Morgan
had disclosed the secrets of masonry, he did not see why any body need to
complain, for he had suffered no more than his deserts, or what he had agreed
to; either one or the other ofthese expressions he made use of. I think this dec­
laration was made in the New England Pacific Bank, Dr by the door of the
Bank. There were several persons present; I think William Harris was
present. I think this was in 1828; I cannot say positively that William
Harris was present, but 1 believe he was present. I think there were sev­
eral persons present: I can’t say how many. The subject of the abduction
aqd murder of Morgan was introduced by some one; 1 do not recollect posi­
tively by whom, but as likely by me as any body; for I very early took an inter­
est*in this subject, and was considerably excited on the subject. There was
air argument between me and Samuel Greene on the subject. He appeared
to be some considerably excited; he seemed to speak with his usual degree
of warmth. I have had a great many conversations with masons on this sub­
ject; and some would seem to justify the killing of Morgan and some would
not justify it; but they would all seem to wish to get rid of it; would smile
and rather laugh at the excitement. These expressions, “ Morgan was a
poor, dissipated, perjured rascal; he received no more than bis deserts, and
you are meddling with that which was none of your business,” have been fre­
quently made to me by masons. I cannot recollect by whom these express­
ions were made, or when. When I have mentioned the subject, and spoke of
Morgan’s poor wife and children, these masons would reply, that “she was not
his wife, but a poor prostitute picked up in the streets of Philadelphia.” The
person who made this expression I think was Col. Brastow, of the Manufac­
turer’s Hotel in Providence. I have been*threatened for my attempts to in-
- vestigate this subject. I was in the Roger Williams Bank in Providence
some time in the year 1828, or the fore part ofthe year 1829; there was no
one present but the cashier, Nathaniel Smith, and WilliamHarris; and §am-
uel E. Gardner came in and says, “ How do you do. Mr. Wilkinson?” and I
replied, “ howdo you do?” He says, “ I understand that you are an encour-
ager or^patroniser of that Free Press at Pawtucket.” 1 replied, “ suppose
I am, is there any thing unlawful in it, that I have not a right to do?” He
says “It will do you more injury than any thing you ever did in your life.” I
said “You alarm me; be good enoughto tell me how I am to be injured in dd*
ing that.” He says “It will be done by an unseen hand.” I donot recollect
that any other conversation passed. I thought this was about far enough.
[Question by committee ] Are you well acquainted with Samuel E. Gard­
ner, if so, is he not a warm tempered young man; rather hasty and intemper­
ate of speech frequently; and did you consider what he said as merely in char-
Digitized by Google
30
acter and inbravado, or did you consider it a serious threat and warning, in­
tended to be carried into execution?
Ans. I have been well acquainted with him something like fifteen years; be
is a pretty free rifted man in his conversation; speaks his mind freely, and in­
dependently. I could not tell what he meant, but his countenance looked
pretty white, and as ifhe spoke the sentiments of his heart. I was impress­
ed seriously by what he said, with the conviction of the danger i was in, and
have ever-since remained so impressed. There has been nothing occurred
since to remove or lessen that impression, but on the contrary many things
have occurred to strengthen and increase it.
Ques. Were, or were not, your sentiments formerly favorable to masonry*
Ans. They werp. I never withdrew my confidence from masonry, judging
it by masons whom I knew, until the Morgan affair. I had many friends,
who were masons, from the time I was twenty-one years old; I used to open
my doors to them on public occasions, and joined with them in their festivities
so far as I could without being initiated, and this confidence I never hare
withdrawn.
Ques. Have you, in conversation with Samuel Greene, calledthe masonic
hall in Providence, thg slaughter house?
Ans. I have so called said hall, but do pot recollect whether in conversa­
tion with Samuel Greene or not; and 1 have so ealled said hall several times.
I did this in conversation, but not moaning that any body had been murdered
in that hall; but I meant to apply it to the institution or government of ma­
sonry. I meant that the laws and principles of masonry lead to the commis­
sion of such crimes. I consider that the penalties of the masonic obligations
bave kept^he secrets ofmasonry so long. I have said that I believed mason­
ry has been the cause of the death of hundreds and hundreds, and I still be­
lieve it. I have evidence, that satisfied my mind, that speh has been the
fact. This evidence is the account of the murder of Morgan, and the account
'of the murder of the author of a book called Jachin and Boaz. I do not
denow, who was the author of this book; I have seen his name in some pub­
lication; I do not know what publication or when.
Quest. How long ago was it that the author of Jachin and Boaz was sup­
posed to be murdered?
Ans. I have no data with me by which I can ascertain; 1 don’t know that
I bave any at home; my memory don’t fix on any time.
Quest. From any impression now on your mind, or from any recollection of
documents, can you say whether that event took place one hundred, or two
hundred years ago, more or less?
Ans. My impression now is that it was an hundred years ago; but I have
no certain recollection; I had rather refer to some document for more certain­
ty, my impression now is, that it was one Samuel Pritchard who was myder-
ed somewhat over one hundred years ago, and that masonry in consequence,
at that time, dwindled down to nothing, and was made a laughing stock to
the boys in the streets.
Quest. What other evidence have you for believing that hundreds and hun­
dreds of persons bave been murdered by masons in consequence of their ma­
sonic obligations?
Ans. The accounts that one Murdock was murdered iifthe State of New-
York about thirty years ago. These accounts are what have been'published
in the paper called the National Observer, at Albany, May 16, 1828; also
the same paper of April 11th, 1828.
Quest. Have you ever said that you believed that five hundred masons bad
been murdered in St. Jobn’s_Hall in Providence?
Ans. 1 never said so, neither did ever think so. I bave no sufficient evi­
dence to satisfy me that any person had been murdered by masons iu this Stale.
Digitized by Google
31
Qties. Have you any other evidence or information to communicate op this
subject? An*. I would communicate the account of the murder of Morgan
published in the Daily Advertiser and American, extra, dated March 1891;
and the Lockport trials reported in the Albany Journal of March 25th 1831;
and the account of the murder of Murdock in the Free Press, published at
Boston, June 11th, 4830: and also would refer the committee to the account
of the origin of the holy royal arch chapter in the Antimasouic Review, 2 vol.
page 294, and also to the account ofthe murder ofWilliam Miller in the same
book, page 160; and I would also exhibit a print styled uIllustrations of Ma­
sonry,” representing the murder of Samuel Pritchard and William Morgan.
I would also refer to the account ofthe murder of Archibal Kennedy, referred
to in the report of the proceedings ofthe antimasonic state convention ofMass­
achusetts, May 19th and 20th, 1831, page 10th; also to Webb’s Monitor,
New-York edition, 238 page, relative to punishment of death.
Ques. Have you not seen publications denying the murder of William Mil­
ler. Ans. I have. Abraham W ilkinson.
William Hairis having taken the affirmation says. I reside in North-
Providence, and am a manufacturer. I recollect a conversation by Samuel
Greene in Pawtucket, on the subject of the murder of Morgan, said Greene
said, “that if Morgan had been guilty of disclosing the secrets of" masonry,
as he had been charged with doing, he had suffered justly,” or expressions to
that effect. I believe that I have heard one other mason justify the murder
ofMorgan; this mason was Barney Merry of North Providence, recently
grand master of the lodge. Said Merry’s expressions were very much to the
same effect as those uttered by said Greene. 'I am not a mason and never
have been. I was once encouraged about ten or twelve years ago or more by,
Mr. Hezekiah Howe, formerly of North Providence, but now residing in the
State of New-York, to join the lodge; and I then asked him whether if I
should by any means, sleeping or waking, disclose any of the masonic secrets,
or oaths, vVhat would be the consequence ? And he answered, very solemnly,
“death.” Said Howe now rqpides, as I understand, at Mr. David*Wilkin­
son’s manufacturing establishment near Albany, N . Y.; and he is a royal
arch mason, as I have been informed. Said Howe was a man that spake
very freely. I do not know of any other conversations of this kind on ma­
sonry that is important.
I will state one other circumstance; about two years since, I was in con­
versation with a person who had been a master of a vessel and who had been
a high mason,*—bis name was Chace James,—I think he belonged formerly
on the Cape;—now resides in Pawtucket. He stated to me that in a cer­
tain voyage he had made, when he was mate, (Chace had then been captain
twenty-five years,) he said their vessel was in distress when they saw a
French veyel approaching,. I think, but am not positive; the captain, he said,
gave the foreign vessel a masonic signal, but did not bring her too; he, the
captain, came to Chace and staled the circumstance, that he could not bring
(bevessel too, he Chace then undertook it himself, as being a higher mason
fromwhat I could draw from him; and after hailing the ship gave a masonic
signal, and in relating this be repeated the same signal in my view, not
knowing that I, the witness, was versed in masonic signals. I upon this stat­
edto said Chace^ I knowUow you brought too this vessel—you gave the grand
hailing sign, as you have now given it to me. When said Chace discovered
hismistake in using this sign in my presence; I not being a mason; he beg­
ged of me not to name the circumstance to anp person; for he was fearful
(hat the masons would serve him as they had served Morgan—and I could
plainly perceive by his feelings that he was alarmed: it struck me so. I tben
stated to said Chace, that I would not injure him. This was my difficulty
Digitized by Google
N*
about my declining at first in this statement to give the name of said Chaee. |
I then stated to him the observation of Solomon Sonthwick, that he, South*
wick, “had for some time felt himself in jeopardy of his life, but there w
arn
one consolation, that masonry had already killed one too many to attempt it
again.” *
Quest. Was this remark made by Soutbwick at the time he was a can*
didate for governor?
Ans. I think it was a little before he was a candidate.
Quest. Were youthen intimatelyacquainted with the masonic signs and
for how many degrees; how did you acquire your knowledge of them; and j
wbat was your inducement for making a study of the masonic signs?
Ans. Iam troubled with a short memory, and could not give many of
said signs. I had studied Bernard’s Light onMasonry. I think he goes to
forty-four degrees. My inducement for pursuing this study was to watch the
operations of masonry, which I have for the last twelve years.
Quest. *Were you one of the signers of the antimasonic memorial to the |
General Assembly, and a member of the late Antimasonic State Convention, I
so called? j
Ans. I was; and for attending the first antimasonic convention I was '
accosted by a friend, a high mason, who stated tome, with a great deal
of earnestness, that I had better keep in the back ground; that he was per- |
suaded, that it would be very much to my injury to have my name made use of i
in that way; be said I might do as much in the back ground and push the
thing as hard as I pleased against masonry; but as a friend he prayed that I
would not come forward in the way that I had. This friend of mine was
Crawford Titus, now of Warwick, R. I.
Quest. Was you present in the Antimasonic State Convention when that
cjnvention resolved and declared 'itself to be a political party; and if so did
you vote for that resolution?
Ans. I was present at that convention, and think I voted for said resolu-:
tion. I do approve of it, and am a political antimason. |
Quest. Was it not the circumstance that these conventions had assumed
the character ofa political party, that your friend Mr. Titus gave you this
friendly advice ?
Ans. I do not know but it might be.
Quest. When Samuel Greene made the declaration before alluded to, was
he in an argument on .the subject of masonry, and was this the case with]
Barney Merry ?
Ans. I think said Greene was in an argument on the subject of masonry, ,
and I thought his feelings were rather excited, by the looksofbis eye. I t wus |
from some question put to said Merry, jtbat be made the declaration bo-
fore stated; I think I told him that Morgan was tnurdered, or kidnapped,
or something like it. Merry is a very cool man. This conversation with said j
Merry, I think was a year or more after the news of Morgan’s murder was in
circulation.
Quest. At what time was Bernard’s light on Masonry published?
Ans. I think in the' summer, or fall of 1829. 1
Quest. Was there notjust previous to the excitement on the subject of an*
sonry, a strong party feeling in Pawtucket? *
Ans. I'here was. * ,
Quest, was there not an unusual bitterness of feeling in that community ?
Ans. There was.
Quest. Had one' or more of the principal members in the lodge in ths^
place had a law suit with your father in law, Mr. Abraham Wilkinson, kooir*
by the name of the seargent trench case.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
Ads. David Wilkinson, a mason, and a member of that lodge I presume,
was a party to said law suit.
Quest. Were you present at the time of the conversation between Abra­
ham Wilkinson and Samuel E. Gardner in the Roger Williams Bank, men­
tioned in the deposition ofsaid Wilkinson, and did you hear the conversation?
Ans. I was present and heard the part of said conversation, in which said
Gardner said “it would be done by an unseen band.”
To the Honourable, Committee of the State of Rhode Island, &c. for the
purpose of investigating the charges against freemasonry.
Gentlemen—I should not presume to trouble you, were it not, for the fact
that my name has been made use of by Messrs. Abm. Wilkinson and Wm.
Harris, in their examination before you in Providence: that .only must be my
apology, for trespassing on your time in stating the conversation I had with
I hem in September, 1828, in the Roger William’s Bank, in Providence, viz:
I went into the Roger William’sBank in Sept. 1828. Mr. Abm. Wilkinson
and Mr. W. Harris was in the bank, Mr. Smith and bis clerk, behind the
counter, Mr. Wilkinson said to me I wish you to renew one half of our note
due your bank (Lime Rock, R. I.) of $1293,15, due the 20th instant. I
said to Mr. Wilkinson, that the wants of the bank were such that we could
ciot do it, or comply with his request. Mr. Wilkinson then said, then you
will have the honour of having one of our notes protested. I told Mr. Wil­
kinson that if he was as great a general as he was stated to be in the
Cadet, I did not believe he would let his note be protested. Mr. Wilkinson
said that was what that nasty, little, stinking Sturtevant had written, and
made several personal allusions respecting masonry, and his brother David.
Mr. Wilkinson then said that Sturtevant met him in the street in Pawtucket,
and asked him if he had made use of the above language. Mr. Wilkinson
told him he had not, for he left out the word stinking. At the August
town meeting, Mr. Wilkinson said be told him to stand further off as be did
not wish to be made drunk so early in the morning by inhaling his breath, and
said a good deal more respecting town meeting and voting in August. I ask­
ed Mr. Wilkinson bow much money he subscribed for the Pawtucket Herald,
he said I could find out by going or calling at the office. I told fMr. W.
Harris that I understood he put in $1000, he said only $500, and I think then
went out, but I am not positive. I then told Mr. Wilkinson that it was the
worst business he ever undertook. Mr. Wilkinson said, in great warmth,
you tell me I have undertaken a bad business! I never was told so in all my life
before. I then told Mr. Wilkinson he could not discover the hand that might
injure him ; or words to that import. Mr. Wilkinson said in reply, greatly
agitated, my God, am I to have my throat cut, and I not know i t ! No, I
will sooner lay down on n and eat dirt, before I will come to the Lime
Rock Bank, for an other , and I will whip my dogs out of your track or
path immediately. So ended the conversation.
I will now explain—We were both labouring under great excitement at
time, and one word will often bring on another in reply, and it being some­
what my disposition to irritate Mr. WilkinsoiT, the words spoken were with­
out any future meaning, nor were intended to have been remembered by me,
much more to have had them brought in question to establish a thing, that I
spoke the sentiments of masonry, or that any otberjperson should suffer for my
indiscretion in use of words;A
when excited, a great many things are often said
in haste, without meaning or sense in order to maintain your ground or irri­
tate the .person with whom you are conversing, and should not be Jaid to
William Harris.
5
Digitized by Google
U
charge him criminally, or subject others more reserved in conversation to
blame. I remain, yours, respectfully;
Samuel E. Gardner.
Barney Merry, of North Providence, Rhode Island, manufacturer, sworn
says, in answer to the following questions.
Do you recollect the conversation imputed to you by William Harris in hie
deposition now read to you ?
Ans. I do not recollect any such conversation; I have reflected upon this
subject and have endeavored to bring it to my mind, but cannot recollect any
sack conversation. I never have deliberately justified the murder of Morgan
in any manner whatever, or the conduct of those masons, who were concerned
in that transaction.
Question by request of Walter Paine, Jr. Did you’noi take in the
Knight Templar’s degree an obligation called the fifth libation ? if so, is it
not considered and explained by masons, of that degree to be the seal of all
your former oaths and the most serious of any obligation administered in the
institution ?
Ans. I shall decline answering this question.
Question by the committee. Did you take in the Knight Templar’s degree
the obligation read to you fromBernard’s light on masonry, page 164, called
the fifth libation, and commencing with the words, “ This pure tcine,”&.c. I
Ans. I did not.
Question by request of Joseph 8. Cook Did you ever take any masonic
obligation which you thought would conflict with your civil, moral, religious,
or social obligations?
Ans. I never did.
Question by request of William Harris. Did you not in this house ob­
serve to me in speaking of my evidence, after saying you did not recollect it,
observe that if you did make such a declaration, it must have been in reference
to the oaths in masonry ?
Ans. I do not recollect any such conversation ; I had some conversation
with you on the subject of your evidence, and observed to you, that I could
not recollect any such declaration as you had imputed to me; that if I ever
had made any such declaration it must have been in consequence of some un­
reasonable charge against masons, and under the excitement of my feelings in
consequence of such charge.
Question at ike request of William Harris. Have you at any time, since
the excitement against masonry, in the capacity of grand master, visited the
lodges in this State, with the view of explaining the oaths or obligations, or
to induce them not to give up their charters. Please explain minutely the
purpose of said visitation to any or all of the lodges in this State?
Ans. I never have visited the lodges for that purpose.
Question by the request of the same. Have you ever as grand master re­
ceived any masonic communications from the grand lodges in other states, or
their officers. And if so what was the nature of those communications?
' Ans. 1 never have, as an individual, received any communications from the
grand lodges or their officers in other States; and the only communications
ever received by the grand lodge in this state since I have been a member,
from such grand lodges, or their officers, have been notices oftheir proceedings
at their annual election of officers; and these communications are at the ser­
vice of, and may be seen by the committee. *
Question by request of Benjamin F. Halleit. A charge from Webb’s
Monitor, page 72, has repeatedly been read in the course ofthis investigation
by the committee. In that charge this sentence occurs, “ Be true and
Digitized by Google
35
faithful, and imitate the example of that celebrated Artist, whom you this eve­
ning represent.” Please explain the allusion and meaning of this part of
said charge, and the nature and object of the representation there alluded
to, with its reference to masonic penalties.
Please state whether the following* injunction or the like occurs in one of
the lectures of the master mason’s degree, referring to the same representa­
tion alluded to in the above charge addressed to the candidate, viz :—
“ Brother A. before we can proceed any further with you, in this solemn cer­
emony, it will be necessary for you to travel in order to convince the breth­
ren of your fidelity and fortitude. In the course ofyour travels you may meet
with ruffians who will endeavor to extort from you the secrets of a master
masons. Some will go so far brother. A. as dven to threaten to take your
life, but you must be prepared even to lay down your life, rather than to re­
veal any of the secrets of freemasonry that have been communicated to you*
Therefore on your firm fidelity and fortitude, rest our further favors.”
Ans. I shall decline answering this question.
Question by request oj Joseph S. Cook. Do you consider the question as
alluding to part ofthe ceremonies, which you do not think material to the pub­
lic, as a reason whyyou decline answering it?
Ans. This is the only reason why I decline answering this question.
Question by the committee. Can the masonic ceremonies, signs, manner
of working, and what are called the secrets of masonry in any way directly
or indirectly, affect the rights or interest ofany person not a mason?
Ans. They cannot to his injury so far as I am acquainted. They are
confined exclusively to masons.
Question byrequest of Benjamin F. Halletl. If a mason is required to
suffer his life to be laken, rather than have the secrets of masonry extorted
from him, ought he not to suffer imprisonment and death, sooner than disclose
the secrets if called upon in a court of Law, and compelled to disclose tjiera
under his civil oath ?
Ans. This is an extreme case which I know nothing about, and cannot tell
what a mason ought to do in such a case. And I cannot conceive any possi-
able case in which it would be the duty of any court to require a mason to re­
veal his masonic secrets, or if such secrets should be revealed they could
affeot directly or indirectly the rights or interest ofany person not a mason.
Question by request oj Benjamin F. Haliett. May not masonic signs and
secrets be used by bad men as a medium of communication and concert, dan­
gerous to the rights ofthose who are not masons?
Ans. I do not know what might be done by bad men; and I do not
think that masons could use the signs and secrets in this way/ and act upon
the principles ofmaoonry.
Question by committee. Is not this principle taught in masonry, to suffer
death rather than disclose the secrets ?
Ans. Such a principle is not a t all taught in masonry.
Question by request ofJ. Freize. If satisfied that masonic secrets conflict­
ed with the duties of a good citizen, would not your obligations and charges
as you understand them, require of you to give up those secrets in obedience
to your civil oaths ?
Ans. They would require me so to give those secrets.
Question by Benjamin F. Haliett. If a mason were to give tjie masonic
sign to a masonic juror, and that juror be induced thereby, to aid him as a
brother mason, against one who was not a mason, could not this secret of
masonry in such a case affect the rights of those who are not masons ?
Ans. I never knew of any suchcase, and norespectable mason could receive
any such communication, as it would be in direct opposition to the princi­
ples ofmasonry. ^ f
Digitized by V j O O Q l C
36
Question by request of Abraham Wilkinson. Would not a mason on trill
have secret means of communication with a judge or juror, who was a mason,
which one, not a mason could r.ot have ?
Ans. Masons have certain signs which they occasionally make use ofto
recognize each other; these signs are made use of by masons for masonic in­
tercourse, and to enable masons to know each other, and for no ether purpose
whatever. I never knew the signs made use of to obstruct the cause of
justice. Barney Merry.
Samuel Greeneyof Smithfield, in Rhode Island, manufacturer, sworn, says,
I am a Mason, and have taken the several degrees in Masonry, the Royal
Arch degree and several of the degrees in Knighthood.
Did you utter the declaration in these words, that“ if Morgan had disclosed
the secrets of Masonry,” you “ did not see why any body need complain, for
he had suffered no more than his deserts or what he_had agreed to,” im
puted
to you by Abraham Wilkinson in his deposition nowread to you ?
Answer. I never uttered any thiog like this declaration to him. There
was some conversation about Morgan, and there was a good deal of warmth
expressed on both aides between myself and the other persons. The expres­
sion which I made use of as near as I recollect, Was that “ Morgan wasa
great scoundrel according to his own showing ; and perhaps got nothing m
ore
thanjustice and I further said too, I thought that the Anti-Masons ought
not to complain as long as Masons only killed Masons, and perhaps that w
ould
be a better way to get rid of such scamps as we masons were. This decla­
ration was not made to Abraham Wilkinson. When 1 uttered these declara­
tions I was a good deal irritated. I never intended to approbate the killing
of Morgan, for I detested it as much as any man could. Alter uttering these
declarations and having heard that Abraham Wilkinson and William Harris
had stated in the streets that I had justified the murder of Morgan, I saw
said Wilkinson, I think, at the New England Pacific Bank ; and in conver­
sation with him he charged me with these things, and I told him it was a
misrepresentation, and endeavored to explain to him what I had said on this
subject and in what manner I said it. He had said a great many irritating
things ; called the masonic hall in Pawtucket a slaughter house ; saichif 1did
not leave that abominable, stinking, blood stained order, my character w
ould
stink above ground. I do not positively recollect to whom I uttered the said
declarations, but I think it was a chap by the name of Clafiin, who had been
in the employment of said Wilkinson; and he made himself busy in making
mischief between me and said Wilkinson. I have no recollection of utter­
ing any such expression as is imputed to me by William Harris in bis
deposition now read to me. I have stated to William Harris more than once
or twice, that 1 never had taken any obligations in masonry which w
ould
influence me to do any thing improper, as a good citizen or neighbor, and that
I considered myselfbound by my masonic obligations to support the laws of(be
f
overnment under which I lived, and to be a good, quiet and peaceable citixen.
[e replied at the time that he did not doubt that such was the case with m
e,
but be believed it was different with some other masons: that he had nofaultto
find with me as a neighbor or citizen. Mr. Harris said he would take mj
word on any subject but that of masonry, and then he would not believe wbat I
said because he considered I was sworn to lie.
Did you utter to any person or persons declarations similar to that uttered
to Clafiin ?
Answer. I have no recollection of it.
In answer to a question. 1 recollect that the general features of the rojal
arch mason’s obligation read to me from paper marked [B] are the same aa
Digitized by Google
theoath which I took, and I do not recollect any variations. I do not recol­
lect to have heard of any of the variations, from the bath now read to me
frompaper marked [E] as laid down in the obligation in AUyn’s Ritual, pages
143, 4, 5 and 6, administered in any chapter.
In answer to a question by request. I cannot say whether there was or
was not any thing i* the royal arch oath, which bound me to keep the
secrets of a companion royal arch mason. It is a number of years since
I heard this oath administered, not having been in the habit of visiting lodges
and chapters for the last several years, excepting occasionally at the election
ofofficers.
Ia answer to a question. I say that I have no recollection of having taken
the thrice illustrious knights of the cross.
In answer to a question. I was present at a lodge in Pawtucket, hut
cannot recollect what year, when something was instituted to prevent impo­
sitions on the lodges. I think this was called a check. The reason given for
instituting this check was to guard against impositions. Samuel Gkeene.
Darnel Greene, having taken the affirmation, says, I reside in the village
ofPawtucket, and am a minister of the gospel by profession.
Question by committee. Do you recollect a conversation stated in a depor
aition given by Levi Chace, and now read to you, which conversation is rela­
tedby said Chaee in the words followingviz: “ Elder Daniel Greene ofPaw­
tucket, came in and said he wanted to speak with me ; be then, after we
retired into a room, asked me, if I had visited a lodge lately; and I told him
d
o
, I did not know that I ever should again, be then asked me if I knew that I
couldnot get into a lodge. I observed to him that I thought that I could;
he observed tbat he had reference to a particular circumstance that had taken
place. I asked him what circumstance ? He observed that he had refer­
ence to Morgan’s illustration, a book so called ; that on that account the
lodges had passed another degree or check word, in order to stop book ma­
sons, (having reference to the book before mentioned,) but observed if you had
been here last evening, I could have vouched for you, and you could have
taken the degree or check word. I then asked him if that book was true, and
he answered with a nod of his head. I then asked him if Morgan bad been
murdered ; he said he dare not say any thing to me on that subject, no oth­
erwise than he would then say to me no doubt he had suffered hisjust deserts
according to his obligation. He then taking me by each arm said, I suppose
that he had his choice ?”
Answer. I recollect, if my memory serves me, of having three conversa­
tions on the subject of masonry with said Levi Chace. The first conversation
was at Capt. Baker’s ; I sat some time in the room at Capt. Baker’s and
conversed on other subjects, and previous to our parting, we went into the
other room, (I being familiarly acquainted with the family,) and I then asked
said Chace if he had visited a lodge lately ? (we standing up and conversing but
a few minutes,) he replied he had not. I told himI doubted whether he would
be able at that time'to get into a lodge, ifhe had not visited one lately, as there
was a good deal of excitement in consequence of many books and some impos­
tors that were about; that the grand lodge had taken a great deal of precaution
and had instituted something new among them to prevent these impostures ;
that if he had not learned that, he would not be able to visit a lodge until he
had, and I should advise him to get it immediately if he intended to visit a
lodge. I think I observed to him that if he had been here last evening, I
could have vouched for him, and he could' have got what the grand lodge bad
instituted ; but that he could not get it except at the lodge where he belonged,
unless some one could roueb for him. There was no conversation at that time
Digitized by Google
38
between said Chace and myself respecting the murder of William Morgan.—
I had a conversation with said Chace on this*subject at my house ; we were
alone by om'selves ; tbe substance of the conversation was this. He asked
vne if I thought that Morgan was murdered ? I replied that according to tbe
best accounts I could get I believed that Morgan was murdered. He then
asked me if I believed that the masons did it ? I told* him I believed they
had done it according to the accounts in the papers which I had read. The
expressions which I then made use of were these : I told him, that I thought
it was an awful thing before God, but that we were not to blame for wbat
others did ; and that there was no society but what had its bad members. I
never justified the murder of William Morgan in any conversation with said
Chace or before any man living, in any way whatever.
Answers to the several questions hereunto annexed, on paper marked [D.]
Answer to 1st. I have taken all the masonic degrees in regular succession
up to the degree of knight templar, inclusive, as administered by tbe regular
lodge in Pawtucket, and by .the chapter and encampment in Providence, and
in said lodge, chapter and encampment. I cannot recollect by whom tbe
several oaths and obligations were administered ; this can be ascertained by
referring to the records. /
Answer to 2d. I have not read Bernard’s Light on Masonry or Allyn’i
Ritual.
Question. Are the oaths or obligations in the entered apprentice’s, fellow
craft’s and master mason’s degrees now read to you from paper marked [A]
substantially the same oaths and obligations which were administered to you
on taking these several degrees ?
Answer. According to the best of my recollection they are substantially
the same.
Quest. Was this clause ip the obligation which you took on receiving tbe
master mason’s degree, viz. “ I do promise and swear, that if any part of
this obligation be omitted at this time, I will hold myself amenable thereto
whenever informed?”
Ans. It was not; I never heard it before, or any thing of the kind.
Quest. Was there in the master’s oath which you took any thing relative
to the grand hailing sign of distress?
Ans. I do not remember any thing about such a clause.
Ans. to 10th. I did not understand that I gave any such jurisdiction; or
that I was ta exercise it over others.
Ans. to 14tb. I did not. I have always understood it to be a charitable
institution; and I have found it to be snch.
Ans. to 16th. I never did.
^ps. to 17th. I never did.
Ans. to 18th. They do strictly.
' Ans. to 19th. I never did.
Ans. to 20th. To the first part of the question I say, I did not. To sec­
ond part of tbe question I say, I should conduct in such case in the same way,
as towards a brother in the church.
Ans. to 21st. I never did.
Ans. to22d. I never did.
Ans. to 23d. I consider that these several obligations can never come in
conflict with each other.
Ans. to 25th. I never visited but one lodge in another state; and I do not
know that I discovered any difference in this respect in that lodge.
Ans. to 26tli. I do not know any thing about this subject.
Ans. to 27th. 1 do not know.
Ans. to 28th. I do not know any thing about it; I do not know that I
have visited a lodge since that time; but I may have.
Digitized by Google
3&
Am. to 30th. I do not know ofany.
Ans. to 31st. 1 do not know any thing about it.
Question by request. Did you ever learn masonically, or any other way in
which you placed confidence, that Morgan was about to, or had disclosed
the secrets and oaths of masonry?
Ans. I never knew any thing more about it, than what the antimasons,
told me, and what I have read in their books, papers, almanacs, &c.
Ans. to 33d. I never heard.
Ans. to 35. I do not know any thing* about their funds, further than as I
have been concerned on committees in appropriating them for charitable pur­
poses.
Ans. to 36th. There are certain signs and ceremonies by which a mason
enters and leaves the lodge; and I never inquired into these signs and cere*
monies, so far as to ascertain whether they refer or have allusion particularly
to the masonic obligations or not. I do not remember particularly whether
masons are taught that these signs and ceremonies refer to the masonic obliga­
tions or not; hut I presume they are taught all about it in the lectures.
Question by request. In jour entered apprentice’s oath, you hound your­
selfin no less penalty than having your throat cut across, &c;. to whomdid
your consider you bound yourself under that penalty?
Ans. I did not consider that 1 gave power to any one to indict such pun*
ishment upon me.
Question by request. Have you ever had any evidence to satisfy you that
speculative freemasonry existed previous to 1717; if so what was that evi­
dence.
Ans. I always believed it to be an ancient ins&tution; I never examined
into the evidences of it critically* I have no particular evidence, other than
the masonic monitor.
Question by request. Have you ever held out the opinion to others, or be­
lievedyourself that the Institution has existed 5831 years?
Ans. I do not remember of having stated how old the Institution was. I
Ibelieved it to be' ancient.
Question byrequest. Do you as a royal arch mason, consider yourselfun­
der stronger obligations to a brother royal a.ch mason, as respects charity,
than you do to an entered apprentice? What is the object of having so many
degrees in masonry, by means of which the various classes of masons have
secrets to keep, not only from the world, but from each other
Ans. To first part of the question, I do not know that I do In answer to
second part ofthe question, I say, I do not know what the object was of hav­
ing so many degrees in masonry.
In answer to a question by request, I say, that I cannot recollect any thing
about the obligation read to me from Bernard’s light on masonry, page 164,
called the 5th libation.
Question by request. Can you remember of ever drinking wine or its rep­
resentative out of a human skull in an encampment?
Ans. I do not know, that it can effect the interests of any person whether
I have drank wine out of a skull, or out of a tin cup, or bason.
D aniel Greene. *
Charles F. Searle, ofProvidence, Rhode-Island, sworn, says, in answer to
the following question:
Quest, by the request ofMoses Richardson. Did you ever hear Abraham
Wilkinson say, that there had been 500, more or less, murders committed in
mason’s hall in Providence or Pawtucket?
Ans. In the latter part ofthe spring or the fore part of this last summer, I
Digitized by Google
4a
think, but am notpositive, Mr. Southworthand Mr. Abraham Wilkinson were
conversing together near the market-house in Providence, on the subject of ma­
sonry; a large 'number of persons were collected around, perhaps fifty; M
r,
Southworth pointed to the masonic hall and asked Mr. Wilkinson bow aanj
men he supposed had been murdered in that lodge? Said Wilkinson answer­
ed, more than five hundred, you puppy! He said it in an ironieal way, andrais­
ed a considerable laugh. They both appeared to be excited.
Quest, by request of Abraham.Wilkinson. Do you know that I saw him
point to the ball?
Ans. I cannot say positively that you did. You and said Southworth were
facing each other.
Quest, by request of Abraham Wilkinson. Was not my answer applied
generally to masonry, or by means ofthe institution?
Ans. I do not know how others understood it, I understood it as applying to
masons. Charles F. Seablb.
Burrington Anthony, of Providence, Marshall of the district of Rhode-
Island, sworn, says, I am not a freemason.
Quest. Have you ever heard Abraham Wilkinson say that there had been
fivehundred, more or less, murders committedinthe mason’s hall in Providence
or Pawtucket?
Ans. Sometime ago I was coming out ofMr. Searle’s office, and heard loud
talk in the street near the market house, and this called my attention to the
market-house windowin front ofthe street. The conversation appeared tobe
between Mr. Abraham Wilkinson and Mr. Southworth, and upon the subjectof
masonry and antimasonryVhs I inferred from their remarks; and it appeared
to be toward the close oftheir conversation. The only words which I distinct­
ly recollect were these.—Mr. Southworth said, how many do you think have j
been murdered inthis hall ?(at the same time throwing his hand up towards the
masonic ball.) Said Wilkinson replied very quick, and rather in a passion,
five hundred, you puppy! These were the expressions as near as I can recollect
them.
Quest, by request of Abraham Wilkinson. Do you know that I saw him
point at the hall ?
Ans. I do not know whether you saw him or not.
Quest, by request of Abraham Wilkinson. In your conversations withMr.
Wilkinson at different times, on the subject of masonry, did you ever bear
him speak otherwise than of the institution; and did you ever hear him apply
his opinions to its members? ,
Ans. 1 cannot recollect any particular conversations with him on that sub­
ject. B urrington Anthony.
John Gardner, of North Providence, manufacturer having taken the affir­
mation, says, in answer to the following question.
Have you ever heard any freemason justify the murder ofWilliam Morgen.
If so, who was the person, when and under what circumstances?
Ans. I cannot say that I have other than this ; about four years ago j
I fell in with Morgan’s book, and with some other disclosures of masonry ; |
and about that time I fell io conversation with Samuel Greene, then ofNorth ,
Providence, but now of Smithfield; and I asked him respecting the trothof
the disclosures by Morgan and others; and he^gave me rather an evasivean­
swer; and very soon began in this way, “ he said that any person that w
ould 1
take them oaths and then disclose them, ought to suffer death.” The con-
versation there stopped; I said no more to him nor.be to me on the subject
This*' conversation took place in our store in Pawtucket, the said Gceeae, bis
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
It
fkth#fand*
mysblfb£fa| then inbusiness together. Said Greene mad* thisdecla-
ration deliberately. Hfewentout ofthe store, and in the course ofthree orfour
•days after th|t he came in the samestore, and then asked me if } bad reported
that hehad said, ‘it was good enoughforMorganifhe was murdered.’ I told hjnt
I never bad said so; and then asked him, if there was such a report in circu­
lation, he said that there was. I told him then he need not fay it to me, for
1 never had saidanything about the conversation whichtook place a few days
before, to any person; this was allthat was said at that time on the subject.
In answer to a question bythecommittee.
I belong to that political party in this State, called political antimasons ;
there is no mistake about that.
Question by request. Were you a political antimason at the time of this
conversation; if not why are you a political antimason now?
Ans. At the time of this conversation I bad rather a favorable opinion of
masonry, and could not he consideredas an antimason; since that time by
reading the disclosures which have been published on the subject of masonry,
and writings on this subject, for I read both sides; I became an antimasdn.
In answer to a question by request. I have never been a mason.
Question by request. Did you ever hear Abraham Wilkinson, *or any
Other person say any thing about a murder said to be committed by masonsia
Rhode Island, if so please state it?
Ans. I cannot say for certainty, that I have heard Abraham Wilkinson
say any thing on this subject, I may have heard him speak of it. I do not
know that I have heard any thing in particular said on this subject ; but I
have beard the subject conversed upon frequently, and have also read the ac­
count of it-in the papers.
In answer to a question by the committee.
I never heard any person say, that he knew ofany personajbeing murdered
ia-Rhode Island by masons, John Gardner.
Ray Potter, of Pawtucket, Massachusetts, minister of the gospel, being
sworn, bays, I have taken one degree in masonry, but am not an adhering
mason. Rev. Mosed Thacher called on me I think in September or October,
1831, and shew me a letter relative to the report or statement of said Thach­
er, that a man had been murdered by the grand lodge in this State. This
letter was from a man in the State of Maine or New Hampshire; there was
an injunction ofsecrecy in the letter, that the name of the writer should hot
be revealed; and Mr. Thacher held his thumb partly over the name of'the
writer. I do not know the name of the writer. His letter stated that the
writer had seen' the account of 'said Thacher published in the Masonic Mir­
ror. And the name of the person, who wme said to have been made a mason
illegally, was Delton C. Smith, who now resides in the state of New-York,
and is the brother-in-law ofCaleb Sayles; and said Smith has a brother now
residing in Burrillville or Gloucester. The tetter also represented that tbit
affair, relative to the man’s being clandestinely made a mason, took place
about thirty year* ago. The object of the letter was to obtain tbe name of
the person, who made said Smith a mason illegally. The writer of the letter
formerly resided in Rhode Island* as it appeared from the letter, and had
forgotten the name of tbe person who illegally made said Smith a mason. Mr.
Tnachsr did not sajr any thing about what he had done in consequence ofbis
having received said letter. The letter contained no other reference to any
other facts or circumstances relative to the alleged murder of &e person, who
made said Smith a mason illegally, than what I have before stated.
Said Thacher communicated to me no Other facts or circumstances rela*
tiro to said alleged murder, than what ho hhd before published in the papers.
6
Digitized by Google
I do oqt recollect the stfte, of the town where the letter wee dated-; I tewtbt
name of the town and think I saw the poet mark. I never have heard that
•aid Thacher has made this letter known.
Question by the committee. From all that you found io thaT letter, and
all that Moses Thacher added to it, did you come to fbe conclusion and be­
lief, that any such murder, as was by said Thacher or the writer of the let­
ter hinted at or alluded to, had ever been committed?
Ans. I did not come to any such conclusion.
Ques. Have you ever mentioned and osculated the circumstances related
in your last answer; have you done so frequently and publicly?
Ans. I have spoken of them a number of times, fromthe time of the com-
Wunication of Mr. Thacher tome. I have had some fears and suspicions
that the murder was committed. My reasons for those fears and suspicions
were that in the first place, I knew the penalty of the masonic obligations to
he death ,in case of revealing the secrets; and if masons thought it right tv
annex such a penally, thay might of course think it right to inflict their pet­
alty for revealing the secrets, as evidently was the case of Morgan. These
are all the reasons I have to give for.my fears and suspicions*
Question by the committee. Do you consider that an anonymous letter
ought to be received by any man as evidence in relation to so high a cbaige
as murder; especially when the person, who shews such a letter, is in som
e
degree committed bymaking the charge, and is to be essentially benefited by
the contents of such letter, or the impression it may make?
> Ans. I think not.
In answer to a question by the committee. I bad been conversing with said
Thacher relative to his statement published in the papers shading
to the murder of a man said to have been made illegallya mason; and in cm-
fequenee of this conversation, he shew me the letter before referred to.
Question by committee. Did you and Mr. Thacher have any converse-
lion about the murder itself, and about the circumstances of, and whoproba­
bly were concerned in it?
Ans. I don’t recollect that we had any conversation upon the subject after I
the letter was produced, we were presently called to tea, if there wasany |
further conversation, I can’t recollect it.
Ques. 2d. Did you consider that Mr. Thacher put hie thumb on the I
name for the purpose of concealing it?
A n. I did, I have no'doubt of that.
Ques. 3d. Did you notwithstanding endeavor to see it? What pari of it i
did you see?
Am . 1 was desirous of seeing the name, and did see th o C hristian soma
I can’t recollect it; it appears to me that it began with, an O, somethinglike
Orin, but 1 can’t recollect. Mr. Thacher appeared to be wilting that I
shonkfsee part of the name, and said he would give the whole name if the
writer bad not requested that his name should not be mentioned.
In answer to a question by the committee. After seeing this letter I did
not make any inquiry relative te said alleged murder, for 1 did not know
where te inquire.
I d answer to a question by the committee. I was initiated m masonry in
the lodge in Pawtucket village, Rhode Island, about ten or eleven years ago;
and I publicly renounced masonry after the account oftlig abduction of I
gan. I was a mason about five years, and during that time my imprest)***
were that the penalty of violating my masonicobligation wqs death; but I did
not reflect upon the obligation; when I thought seriously ofit, I renouncedM
ft-
•oniy.
Q
U
fjTk.
In answer to a question by the committee. When Mr. Thacher csOedon
?, I took that opportunity to inquire ofhim about the publication whichbebad
Digitized by Google
badArelative to the*alleged murder; arid 1 had no further conversation with
hfinroO the subject after that time. Said Thacher wastiohn after a candidate
for the senate of Massachusetts, Ray Po*t*r.
fVUldrtt Ballon, sworn, Says, I reside in Warwick, R. I. and am a man­
ufacturer. I have been and I am now a freemason. -I have taken sevea
degrees lb masonry. I was admitted and took Fourdegrees in Federal Lodge
No. 80, in the town of Pari?, New Y6rk ; and I took the other degrees id
New Hartford, in the state of New York. J have been master of the War­
wick Lodge, in Rhode Island, and I was master of that lodge in 1828.
f have read Bernard’s Light on Masonry ; the oaths in that book, up to
the Gth degree on masonry, inclusive, are substantially the same as the oaths
which I took in these degrees, and the oaths which I have seen administered
In the Manchester Lodge and Warwick Lodge, in Rhode Island.
There is no difference between the oath in the first degree administered to
me, and the oath I hare seen administered in the said lodges in Rhode Island;
and no material variation in the 2d degree. In the oath in the master’s de­
gree, in addition to the oath in Bernard, I swore to support the constitution
of the grand lodge ofthe United States. The oaths which I heard adminis­
tered in the Manchester lodge and in the Warwick lodge, were substantially
the same as the oaths in Bernard’s light on masonry, except some clauses in
these latter oaths were left out. One clause left out was the words that “ 1
will remember a brother master mason when on my knees before Almighty
>God and also the words, <
fI will go -ona master mason’s errand,
Question. Did you ever receive a letter in the royal arch cypher ?
Answer. I did. And the Jetter now shown to me is the letter which I
received. There was nothing in the letter except the cypher and a piece of
iblue paper. This cypher, when interpreted by the cyphers laid down in Bef-
jsafd’s book, page 138, means “ Revenge is sweety I do not know from
erhom this letter came.
Questions by committee.
1st. Have you ever taken the degree of royal arcb mason ?
Ans. I have not.
2d. Have you ever formally ef publicly seceded or withdrawn yourself
Ifora masonry ?
Ans. I never have. I signed a paper certifying that Elder R. Potter
-gave the purport ofthe entered apprentice’s oath correct. This is all I have
done. This was the 25th of July last. ‘
3d. Have you means of ascertaining whether the letter came from a ma­
son or an antimason ? .
Ans. I have not. I can merely give my supposition. The latter part
of the year 1827, 1 think, I was at Manchester lodge ; there were two can­
didates to be initiated that night There was no one present that bclchgcd
to Ihe lodge that felt competent to givo the obligation : several member*
inquired for Morgan’s book that they might give the obligations out of that
I told of it afterwards ; that I suppose was the reasoju of my receiving: the
letter from Connecticut. *I know of no other.
4th. What' was the fourth degree that you received ?
AuS. It was called ‘the rmion degree. I pever saw rt administered in
this state. The seventh degree as I took it was the most excellent master.
The penalty in the union degree, which I took, was to have my body severed
trom shoulder to hip diagonally. * • , p
;Quer. Did you ever know thd word affirm used in -administering utasonjc
♦oaths ? - _ .
‘ Aha/ Theverdid. ~ W ilx»
arj> Bau.pp,
Digitized byGoogle
Barmy PkoJpt, sworn, »ajr», I reside m Smithfield, Rhode blend, tad 1
am a machinist. I have taken three degrees in masonry. 1 am not no* •»
adhering mason ; but bare not made a public renunciation. I took the tbreo
degrees in Columbia lodge, No. thirty-four in Brattleborough, Vt. The oathi
administeredto me were substantially the same as the oaths in the three de­
grees in Bernard’s tight on.masonry.* I received the degrees in the (all of
1826* I think I considered the obligations binding about two years; and I
was then convinced, that they were not binding.
Quest. Did you ever hear any mason in a lodge or out of a lodge, justify
the death of Morgan?
.Ans. 1 heard a mason say, that allowing that Morgan had got bis throat
cut from ear te ear; and allowing that the book which be bad published wat
true, he had bad justice done him, or words to that effect. The masonw
as
Timothy Bracket of Guilford, Vt. and be uttered this declaration some that
in October, 1830,1 think. His declaration was made in the*highway, is
Guilford, near the door ofhis bouse ; his wife and my sister were present. I
do notrecellect that any other persons were present. The subject of m
ason­
ry was introduced by some one among us. 1 do not know whether said Brack­
et was in anger or not; be didnot appear to be. I and Mr. Bracket always
bad been on friendly terms. Mr. Bracket is a paper maker, I believe—I do
not know but be is a respectable man. - Barney Phelps.
i
Orrin Packard sworn, say, I '‘reside in Cumberland, R. I. and ana
Blacksmith. I am a freemason, I have taken five degrees in masonry. 1
took the three first degrees in the Pacific lodge, at Amherst; Mass. I took
the other two degrees in Mark lodge, Cumberland, R . I in the year 1827,1
think.
Quest. What did you hear said in the grand lodge in said Cumberland rel­
ative to the Morgan affair? • ^
Ans. At the annual election of the officers ofthe Cumberland lodge in1827
or 8 I think; there were officers of the grand lodge present at tins time; is
regular lodge meeting. These officers,were Peter Grinell, Barney Merry,
Richard Anthony grand master, and I think Samuel Greene and some other
gentlemen fromProvidence. Mr. Anthony^spoke abouithe death of M
organ
and said there was' no doubt that Morgan was killed; this was the first timeI
bad heard of it. Mr. Anthony said probably it would come out in print shoitlj;
and that he should read it in bis family the same as any other print, aud let it
pass, or words to that effect. There was nothing else on this subject pasted
at that time in the lodge. I do not consider myself hound by any of the mi-
sonic obligations which I took. * Orrin Packard.
John A . Kent, of North Providence, in the village of Pawtucket, sworn,
says, I am not and never have been a mason.
Quest. -Have you ever beard any masons justify or palliate the murderof
Morgan, if so, who were they, what where the declarations, when made, and
under what circumstances ?
Ans. Sometime last summer, in the village of Pawtucket, Mr. Henry
Lord stated to me, that “ if Morgan had revealed the secrets and obligations
he had just what he had agreed to have done; ifany man would take suckob­
ligations as he had and reveal them, he ought to suffer death.”
Henry Lord, said he had taken twenty degrees in masonry, and stid if
he bad money be would go clear up, he stated this before three others, v« >
—
William Bagly, Mr. Child, and Mr. Jonathan West. Said Lord is am
a­
chinist and painter. I was speaking to said Lord about the murder ofM
o
r­
gan and asked him if masonry wasso good a society, how they came to take
the life of Morgan ?
Digitized by Google
45
•In answer to a question by the cmximftter. I havebeen k n more or ta*
every day since the committee here been in session. I m
mm
o aatimaaen, I
.have come here) mod have attended this exmmimmtion ofmy own accord.
- J ohn A. Kxnt*
, Henry Lord, of Providenee, R. I. manufacturer, sworn, says, I m
m m
freemason, mod have taken the following degrees in masonry: three degrees
I took in the state ofConnecticut,and the higher degrees I took of Jeremy L.
Cross. I took all the degrees regularly op to the degree of royal arch ma­
son inclusive. 1 then was made a member of the select council. I took the
following ineffable degrees, royal and select master, perfect master, oman
eagle, and Mediterranean pass.
Question by the committee• Do you recollect the conversation imputed to
you by John A. Kent in his deposition now read to you relative to the murder
of Morgan?
Ans. Said John A. Kent used to he in the habit almost every day of speak*
ing to me on this subject in a jocose manner, and be would clench me by the
neck, and call me a murderer, and make use ofmanygrimaces, exhibit the signs
which are laid down in the. antimasonie almanacks. I did not think he was
serious* until Mr. West told me that be had circulated reports about him.-*
After this time I had some conversation with said Kent, and told himthat if
Morgan was killed he was not killed by masons, for the principles of masonry
did not justify such conduct. I never have uttered any such declaration as
said Kent has imputed to me ; and have not said any thing to him justify­
ing the murder ofMorgan. And the inference which said Kent should have
drawn from all my conversation on this subject was that I did not intend to
justify the murder of Morgan, and that the principles of masonry did not jus­
tify said murder. Our conversations on this subject were carried on in a jo*
coae-aad ironical manner.
Question by request of B. Cranston. Has not said Kent spent most of
his time in abusing masons?
An*. At that time his whole theme was on this subject; and the most of
his conversation was blackguarding masons and masonry. ,
Question by requestof William Harris. You allude to the Mediterranean
pass as being of advantage to those^who have taken it, please to explain in
what way it would be benefioial.
Ans. At the time I took this degree, I took it with the officers of Commo­
dore Decatur’s squadron, and at that time the United States were at war
with the Turkish powers in the Mediterranean, and the degree would lffive
been beneficial to such of our countrymen as might have fallen into the hands
of their enemies.
Question bu request of J* S. Cook. Would.it not in your opinion have
been beneficial in softening the barbarous treatment towards prisoners.
Ans. I think this was the object ofthis degree.
H iN tr Loan.
Caleb Sayles7 of Wrenthan®, Massachusetts, manufacturer, sworn, says,
in answer to the following questions.
Question by the Committee. Have you seen a statement in the newspa­
pers published by Rev. Moses Thacher, relative to a conversation said to
have takea place between him and yourself on thea Hedged murder of a man
in St. John’s hall; and ifso, is that statement a correct account ofthe con­
versation which took place between said Thacher and yourself ?
Answer. I have seen this statement published by said Thacher, and 0?
as.net a somset account of the conversation between him and myself. I pul-
D
ig
itizedb
yGoogle
Krifed a replym ilia Masonic Mirror, in Boston, to tbe statement of Ail
Thacber; and tbisreply was a correct statement bfthe con?creationbetwcea
said Thacber and myself.
In answer to a question by tbe Committee. I am a freemason and hare
taken twenty-five or six degrees in masonry, and I took the three first detrees
in Watertown, in tbe state of New York ; I took afl the other degrees,
(except some ineffable degrees,) in RhodeIsland*
Tn answer to a question by tbe Committee. The statement to tbe public
in reply to the statement of said Moses Thacber, relative to tbe m
urder
alleged to have beencommitted bythe grand lodge of Rhode Island, published
in the Rhode Island American and Oaxette, a newspaper printed in Provi­
dence, September the 27th, 1831, and dated North Wrentham, Sept. 10, |
1831, is the same statement which I published in the'Masonic Mirror; sod
this statement is substantially true in every respect. I do not knowthenam
e i
•of tbe person who is said to have been murdered. I have made inquiriesfor !
tbe name oftbe person, but have not been able to ascertain i t ; and I heard ;
daring the examination before this committee, tbat:hrs name was Smith. 1
received tbe information which I communicated to said Thacber, from m
y
brother-in-law, Delwin Smith, who, at the time I received said infonm
afiO
B
,
resided in Watertown, in the state of New York; and I do not knoww
hether
my brother-in-law is new living or not. I have not beard from him in Shout
•twelve years.
Question by Committee. At the tlme of your conversation with Mr.M
osei
Thacber, as you have above stated* what was his reply to the com
m
unica­
tions you made to him; what opinion, if any, did be express on the occasion1
Did he express any belief in the truth ef tbe rumor or story ; did he express
any opinion favorable or unfavorable to masonry; did he intimate anyintention
to quit the fraternity ?
Answer. I do not recollect what reply said Tbacher made, if any, orW
hat !
opinion he then expressed on my communication, if any; and I donot
recollect that he did or did not express any opinion either favorable or u
n
­
favorable to masonry ; and 1 think lie did not make any intimation about
seceding fromthe fraternity, for if he had, I think that I should have rem
em
­
bered it. i
In answer te a question by tbe Committee. I have never had any conver­
sation with said Thacher on this subject since that time.
Question byrequest of Walter Paine. Jr. Did you know that Mr. Thacber
mam amaeoo at the time you heldthis conversation with him?
Answer. I did.
' Question by request of Walter Paine, Jr. What was year motive inmkkf
this communication.
Answer. Mymotive was to give him information of this circumstance ia
connexion with the Morgan affair. I do not recollect that I have ever stated
any other reason for giving this information.
Requestof John S. Harris.
Please to ask Mr. Sayles to answer the seven questions contained iotbe
Boston u Free Press” ofOctober 12, 1831, And oblige yours, &c.
T he Hon. Com. j . S. HARRIS,
By the Committee. Please give an answer to each of seven ioterrogatfai
hereunto annexed, taken from the Boston Free Press of October 12, 1831.
A. Didyou, or did you net, relate the same story to other masons*M b
members of 8t. Alban's Lodge ?
2. You say, thafedhe “conversation with Mr. Thacber was ia 1828 tat
that “ aooiladter” this conversation, you made inquiryinthe “ hack toutsof
Rhode Island, in order that you might he satisfied, if ‘feasible^ ft* a auim,
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
wbeibeifthere whe, intruth, any foundation for the etetfy with which 70a had
precipitately, alarmed your brethren.” Did^you, or did you not, so late aa
thespring of 1829, relate the same story to a"mason, who was wota member of
St. Alban’s Lodge ? ♦
, 3. Did, or did not, a freemason, who was also a knight templar,-so late ris
the spring of 1329; ask you, in substance, if it was intended that maeonia
penalties should be executed, in case the oath of secrecy were violated ?
4. Did you, or did you not, give it as your opinion, that it was the inten­
tion of freemasonry, that the penalties should be executed, in case the 'oath of
sfeerecywere violated ?
5. Did you, or did you not, at that time, give this as a reason, why me-
tonic penalties should be executed, “ That masonic law was older than ewit
law ?r’
6* Did you, or did yon not, give this same mason to understand, that you,
as one, would be willing to assist in executing the masonie penalty upon a de*
linquent, who had violated his oath ofsecrecy ?
7. In order to impress upon the mind of this freemason, that it was intended
Masonic penalties should be executed, did you, or did you not, bring the Grand
Lodge of Rhode Island, as authority, by relating substantially the samestory,
irftb which you say, in 1828, you “ had precipitately alarmed your brethren?”
Answer to 1st. I answer in the affirmative.
Answer to 2d. I answer in the affirmative.
.Answer to 3d. I answer in the Begatite.
Answer to 4tb. I answer in the negative.
Answer to 5th. I answer in the negative.
Answer to 6tb. I answer in the negative.
Answer to 7th. I answer in the negative.
Question by the Committee. Did you reply to the publication of said
Tbaeher in the Boston Free Press of October the 12th, 1831.
Answer. I did reply to said publication of said Thacher, in the Masoni*
Mirror published in Boston ; I think, in October, 183L Caleb Sayles.
Samuel Young, of Providence, grocer, sworn, says, I am a freemason and
have taken seven degrees in masonry.
Question by the committee. Have you heard the reports incirculation rel­
ative to a man’s being murdered for disclosing masonic secrets? If sapless*
state what you know or have beard relative to this affair.
Ans. I recollect that about two years ago there? was a report in circula­
tion and very prevalent in this town, that a man by the name of Smith, I
think bin name was Thomas H. or Thomas S. Smith, had been murdered in
St. John’s hall in Providence. I was very well acquainted with the wife*of
this Said Smith, and she frequently visited my house since hot husband ban
been missing; and I never beard her say or intimate that she thought.or bn*
lisved that her husband had been murdered, she has told me that her husband
went away or absconded. I have understood that this Smith was the stme
man, who has been represented by Moses Thacher from the press and pulpit,
to have beet murdered in St. John’s ball. I never heard it reported that*ny
other person was murdered in that ball, and therefore I drew the inference
that said Thacher alluded to this Smith in the statements which be,ha*made
—*aid Smjtb formerly resided in.Gloucester, in this. State*
Question by request of John Harris. Did you ever hear Mrs. Smith
say, that her husband had been summoned before the lodge. And was not
her maiden name?Bowen, and was not Bowen a bigh mason2
Aac* I never heard Mrs.* Smith say that her husband had been summoned
before the lodge. Mrs. Smith’s maiden name was, I think, Maria Bovee*
, Digitized by Google
daughter of Doctor Bowen who formerly resided inProvidence. I dOnet
know whether her father was a.mason or not.
/ft answer to a question by the committee. I never heard it rumoredor
reported, that any other person, than said Smith, had been murdered in St
John’shall, or by thegrand lodge, or byany other lodge, or by masons, inthis
State. Samvel Young.
Thomas Truesdelt, of Providenee, merchant, having taken the affirmation
says, ift answer to the following questions, says,
Question by the committee. Have you heard the reports in circulation Tel*
tive to*a man being murdered in St. John’s hall in Providenee for disclosing
masonic secrets. If so please state what you know or have heard relative to
this affair.'
Ans. It has been frequently reported that Thomas Smith, formerly of
Gloucester in this State had been murdered in St. John’s hall in Providence.
This report l think I heard about a year ago. I knew this Thomas Smith
very well; and I think in 1821, he started to come to Providence from Glou­
cester, and the report came in town that he had beenrobbed, and it was fear*
ed that he had been made way with by the robbers; and considerable inquiry
was made for him; and it nas reported that his horse and waggon was found
in Cranston or Johnston; and the supposition after this was, that he bad gone
to Kentucky or Ohio. He was owing the firm ofWheaton & Truesdell about
$550, and we sent our accounts out to a young man by the name of Brown,
son of Doct. Brown, then residing at Louisville, for collection; and the sains
year Mr. Wilder; the partner of Judge Jessee Tourtellott came from Ohio to
Providence by the way of New-Orleans, and upon inquiry he told me thaths
saw said Thomas Smith in New-Orleans; said Wilder said he felt satisfied
that it was Thomas Smith whomhe saw; as he approachedsaid Smith in New
Orleans Smith sheared offand did not give said Wilder a. chance to speak
with him, as he was ashamed to see said Wilder. This last fall l inquired of
Judge Tourtellott whether he had seen* said Thomas Sknith, and he said fie
had not; but that said Smith was in the neighbourhood of Cincinnati in tho
year 1821, as said Tourtelotte was informed by his friend. This Thomas
Smith is the same person who bas been reported to have been murdered in 8t
John’s hall in this town; I have never heard of any other person’s being mur­
dered in St. John’s hall or in any other ^masonic hall or by masons in this
State. I am not a freemason and have never been. Said Wilder was well
acquainted with said Smith and was brought up in the same town with him.
The observations which said] Wilder made to me there, on my inquiring
of him if he had seen Thomas Smith, he said yes, I saw him in New-Orleans
hut did not speak to him; I tried to speak to him but he avoided me. I then
said to said Wilder are you sure you saw Thomas, and be replied yes, I am
sure of it, for I was brought up close by him. Thomas *Thuesoell.
Lewis C. Brown, of Smithfield, Rhode Island, mill wright, sworn, says,
in answer to the following questions. (
Answer to first general interrogatory, on paper marked D. I am a free­
mason, and have taken the several degrees in masonry up to the royal arch
degree, inclusive. I took the three first degrees in the morning star lodge in
Cumberland, and the other degrees in the chapter in Providence;* and I am
•till an adhering mason, I do not attend lodges very often, but do not consider
myselfas having withdrawn from masonry.
Question by request. Did you ever have any difficulty with the ledge at
Cumberland and the grand lodge? If so wbat* was it, and wbat were the
proceedings?
4ft
D
igitizedb
yv ^ o o Q l e
4$
Ana. I item lid any dtfflcultT with the grand lodge. There was soma
difficultybetween myself and the Morning Star lodge in Cumberland inthe year
1314. This difficulty began by some of the members of said lodge being at
finance with roe; this difficulty happened in this way: I was absent from the
State, and some of my creditors, being members of said Jodge, attached my
real estate. And one of these creditors did not succeed in his attachment of
m
yproperty ; and then accused me of cheating him. And this creditor made
a complaint to said lodge against me for defrauding him; and the lodge took
notice of it, and appointed a committee to investigate the subject. And on an
investigation the committee unanimously reported against me to said lodge;
aftd I appealed from the report of said committee to a second committee, as I
had a right to do by the by-laws of said lodge. This second committee in­
vestigated the affair and also reported to said lodge against me. And as I
was at thistime a member of the chapter in Providence, the same complain!
was made, after the report of the second committee to the said chapter—and
thechapter appointed a committeeofthree to investigate said affair and report
thereon. I think this committee were Messrs. John Carlile and Peter Grinhell,
and a Mr. Jackson of Providence. This committee, after hearingthe parties,
reported to the chapter unanimously in my favor. After this report I went
tothe Morning Star lodge and insisted on being reinstated in said lodge; and
this request said lodge refused; and I then made a complaint to the Grand
lodge, and the Grand lodge appointed a committee of three to investigate tho
affair and to report thereon. This committee consisted, I think, of Messrs.
John Carliie and Peter Grinnell of Providence and Mr. Richard Anthony, of
North Providence. The committee cited the Morning Star lodge to appear
before them and show cause why I 'should not be reinstated in said lodge.
The said lodge appointed a committee to represent thembefore the said cop*
nittee of the grand lodge; and both parties appeared before the committee
of the grand lodge. This committee after a full investigation of the subject,
reported to the grand lodge, that l should be reinstated in all the privi­
leges of masonry, and that I should have a right to visit any lodge under
the jurisdiction of the gran<l lodge; and this report was adopted by the
grand lodge; and I then went to the Morning Starlodge, and again clainreff
to be reinstated in all my privileges in said lodge; but said lodge refosed to
reinstate me and contended that the grand lodge had no right to reinstate
me. The reason why the Morning Star lodge could not reinstate me was
this: their b£-l*w»required that to reinstate a member who had been expell­
ed, there should be a unanimous vote of all the members present. And the
second committee of said lodge had reported agaiust my being reinstated,
except by a unanimous vote of the members of the lodge present. And when­
ever the members ofthe lodge voted upon this subject the person who had ac­
cused me, and some others, voted*against me and thereby prevented a unani­
mous vote. After repeated application to said lodge, I was, I think, in the
fall of the year 1828, restored to all my former rights and privileges in said
lodge, by an unanimous vote of said lodge. My accuser had, at this time,
removed into the State of New-York.
Question by request. After this, or before this, or at any time, did you
with another person write something against the institution of masonry, which
got before some person or persons not masons, and which when known to ma­
sons or the lodge, created another or the same difficulty?
Ans. I believe that there was no difficulty created by any thing I ever
wrote on this subject. During the difficulty before referred to I kept a jour­
nal, and wrote in it the reports of the committees, and comments on some
parts of their proceedings which I deemed illegal and unmasonic; and I also
wrote letters to the lodge on this subject of which the lodge did not approve.
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
60
All the proceedings before the said committees, and in the said lodge, chap­
ter and grand lodge are matters of record in their several bodies. The per­
son who made the accusation against me, urged against me before the com
­
mittee and the grand lodge the fact that I had kept said journal and written
said letters, representing that I bad written against masonry; but the com
­
mittee of the grand lodge decided that I had not written any thing against
masonry; but that 1 bad only written against the conduct of certain m
asons
in selfdefence.
Question by request. Did y©u understand that the lodge’s persistinginthe
firstjudgment was on account of what you had said against the institution,or
against masonry, or on some other account ?
Answer. It was not on account of any thing said or written against m
a­
sonry ; Tor I do not consider that I had said or written any thing against
masonry, for the reasons which I hare before stated.
Question by request. Did the lodge some two or three years ago, or any
masons pay or offer to pay back all the money which you had paid themupon
certain conditions ? if so state the reasons and conditions.
Answer. No such offer was erer made to me.
Question by request. Hare you erer known any person to obtain masonrj,
or the degrees in masonry, illegally, or as they say, clandestinely ; if sow
h
o
was the person, and who gare said degrees on such illegal information; w
hcve
did the person reside, and what became of him, and where was he tried if
tried at all ?
Answer. No such case evey came within my knowledge.
Question by the Committee. Hare you erer received any informatioi
which induced you to believe ^bat any such case ever happened withinthis
state.
Answer I never had any knowledge of such a case and never received
any information which was proof to my mind that such a case ever did happei
in this state. I hare heard it reported, but I never heard it reported bpasp
person who knew the fact, (one of the persons from whom I heard this report
was my father,) that one Joseph Follet, formerly of Cumberland, obtained
masonry clandestinely, biit I do not know from whom. I have heard nonew
circumstances about this report. I beard this report about thirty-two pears
ago. I cannot tell whether the persons from whom I heard the report w
ere
masons or not; my father was not a mason, but was rather opposed tom
a­
sonry. This import has been revived within about five yeaps, and wascircu­
lated in a Vermont paper. This report in the Vermont paper I'knew to be
incorrect. The account stated the case to be about fourteen years ago; it
did not name the person, but came so near the report of the Follet case, that
I thought it must be that case. I knew the report of the Follet case tohave
been made about thirty-two years ago ; and at that time it was represented
as having taken place not a great many years previous to tbat time. I w
as
well acquainted with said Joseph Follet; he died about twenty years ago}
and left two daughters, one of whom, the younger, married my brother. *
n
>
e
elder daughter of the said Follet, I think, is about thirty-five years old; and
the younger daughter, the wife of my brother, Fenner Brown, is about thirty
years old. My father died in the year 1800. /
Question by the Committee. What other.rumors have you heard on this
re seon the rumors in the newspapers reported by Moses Thacher sod
others, and I considered that they had reference to the same case. Tbs
person alluded to in these reports, I consider to be the same person w
ho is
said to have made said Follet a mason clandestinely. In conversation w
ith
my brother’s wife, she said that her mother told her that a stranger cane fa
D
ig
itizedb
yGoogle
51
board in ber mother’s family, and that her mother washed the stranger’s
cloaths, and that on one occasion she saw some blood on his shirt ; this
stranger noon after disappeared. I do not know that the stranger was known
in the neighborhood ; it is supposed that Mr. Follet knew him. I do not
recollect that ray sister-in-law told me that Mr. Follet knew him. I think’
that my brother’s wife said, that her mother told her, that the stranger was
intimate with Mr. FoMet, and that said Follet and the stranger were often in
a room alone.
In answer to a question by the Committee. I was intimately acquainted
with Follet, but never heard him say that he was clandestinely made a mason,
and never heard him say that any person had suffered by masons on his ac~
count.
In answer to a question. I was fromtwenty to twenty-five years old at the
time of the death of Mr. Follet.
Question by request. What has been represented by Mr. Follet’s family
as his feelings and mind upon this subject when in his last sickness.
Answer. I never heard it represented by said Follet’s family that he had
changed his mind on the subject of masonry. Said Follet was buried with
masonic honors.
I never heard from any of said Joliet’s family, that he said any thing about
the stranger before alluded to, nor of hny person’s having suffered by masons.
Question by request. Were you not restored toyour masonic privileges by
the grand lodge because they were afraid you would publish your difficulties
to the world ?
Answer. I think the grand lodge restored me to my masonic privileges
because justice required that it should be done. .1 cannot knowtheir motives.
Question by request. Did you threaten to publish the proceedings had at
that time, and did not your friends in.the grand lodge as you understood say
that if you were not restored,you would publish the whole proceedings.
Answer. I think there was something of that kind said by the committee of
the morning star lodge on this subject, to the committee of the grand lodge,
(there was nothing said in the grand lodge,) but do not knowwhat effect it bad.
Question by the committee. Did the controversy relate to a difficulty be­
tween yourself and the lodge ; and would there have been any thing improper
in your publishing these proceedings ?
Answer. It aid. There was nothing that would have injured the princi­
ples of masonry if these proceedings bad been made public ; but would only
have shown the inconsistent conduct of the lodge.*
Question by request. Have you ever read Morgan’s illustrations of ma­
sonry, or Bernard’s lighten masonry ; if so,’are they, or either of them sub­
stantially correct ?
Answer. I have read some parts of Morgan ; I have not read Bernard.
I think that Morgan wrote as well as he knew ; the reason of my opinion is,
Ithink that he wrote the book to get money by it, and that he would of course
write as correct as he knew ; there are some errors in it in my opinion. I
could not point out the errors without looking the book through.
Question by request. Have you ever taken what is termed a check degree
or test oath, and have you had given to you since 1826 a new pats word ? If
sowhen, and by whom, and what did you understand occasioned.it ?
Answer. I took what is called a check degree, in the morning star lodge,
Cumberland, some time in theyear 1828. The degree was given by the
4presiding officer ofthe lodge. There was but Ipttle said about it at the time ;
the abject was to keep out of the lodge such persons as might get knowledge
enough out of Morgan’s book and others to get in to the lodge*
Question by request. Did you understand that this degree came from New
York? *
D
ig
itizedb
yGoogle
at
Answer. I understood that this degree had been lately receired, hat ftas
whence it was not explained or told to me. Lewis C. Brow*.
Jesse Browny of Cumberland, R. L farmer, sworn, says, I am a fireem
a-
son. I hare taken three degrees in masonry; and I was initiated in m
ason*
ry, more than thirty-five years ago in St. John’s lodge, in Providence, R. L
Question byrequest of John Harris. Do you know of any person having
been made a mason illegally, or clandestinely, if so who was the man, and
who made him such, and where was he made, and what was the name ofthe
person, who it was said, made him such ?
Ans. I do not know of any such case. It jras a common report inm
y
neighbourhood in Cumberland, that one Follet, late of said Cumberland, w
as
clandestinely made a mason. It was reported that the man’s name whom
ade
said Follet a mason clandestmety was Adams.- I do not recollect his Christian
name, and am not quite positive that bis name was Adams. The report w
as,
that said Adams removed some time after this to the westward, and that he
embarked in a vessel from Providence with bis family. It was reported that
said Follet was clandestinely made a mason by said Adams in M
assacbn*
setts. Said Adams was a transient person and professed to be a mason.-*
* Said Follet was not satisfied with the manner in which he had been madea
mason, and came forward and was made a mason in the Morning Star lodge
in Cumberland, in the legal way. It was said Adams was going to rem
ove
' some distance to the west; and some of my masonic brethren.told methat
they saw said Adams and his family on board the vessel in Providence.
Said Adams had visited the Morning Star lodge with myself and otherm
a­
sons; and we had become seme acquainted with him* 1 heard it repotted
that &
said Adams made another man a mason clandestinely, but do not re­
collect his name, it was not in my neighbourhood. I do not recollect that said
Adams visited the lodge after these transactions. This transaction w
as
generally known in Cumberland by masons and other people too.
Questionby request of John Harris. Did you ever know that said Adams
was called upon by the lodge in Cumberland, or any other lodge for what he
had done. Did you understand that the lodge or masonry had any thingto
do with bis going away, or paid any thing towards his removal?
Ans. I never knew that the lodge in Cumbevland or any other lodgecalled
upon said Adams for what be had done, but I understoodthat several m
asons
conversed with him on the subject, and asked why he had done so? and1 un­
derstood that he replied that he did it to get funds to remove himselfand
family. I never have heard that the lodge or masonry had any thing todo
with said Adam’s going away or paid any thing towards his removal1
.
In answer to a question by committee.
I cannot recollect exactly how long ago this transaction took place, hot 1
think it must be more than tweoty years ago.
Question by request of John Harris. Have you not frequently saidor
thought there was something wrong about this transaction, so far as m*soai|
was concerned?
Ans. I have not; further than I have heard it said, and have thought
myself that-said Adams did wrong ingetting said Foliet’s money fromhim
*
Question by request of Joseph S. Cook. Did you ever hear or dopm
know, that Adams suffered in any way, for communicating the masonicscent)
and making clandestine masons?
Ans. I never knew or beard ofbis suffering in any way,exceptthat sewr*
aj.of his brethren spoke to himand told him that what be had done wise
breach ofhis trust.
Question by request of WtUitm Harris. Have you heard fromMr. Fd-
D
igitizedb
yb o o g i e
let's family, or any other person respecting a stranger who boarded at Mr,
Follet’s and went away suddenly; and of Mrs. Follet’s discovering blood oa
• bis clothing, which she washed?
Ans. I never did. J esse Brown.
Samuil S. Peckham, of Middletown, being sworn, saith in answer to the
following questions.
Have you ever beard a mason of reputable standing in society, justify or
palliate the abduction or killing of Morgan; if so, who was he, when was it,
what was the occasion and manner of expressions* Did it appear to be the
deliberate opinion or sentiment of the speaker, or was it said in the warmth
of debate or retort? Had there been any thing previously said in accusation
of masonry or masons?
Ans. He thinks he has, one only, he was James Tuell, blockmaker ofthis
town, it was about two months ago, in at Capt. Varrs’ store, there werem
number of others there, Capt. William and John Yars were there, who else
he don’t at present recollect We fell into conversation upon the subject of
Morgan’s death; Tuell began about antimasonry; witness then told him be
had heard that he had said, that there u^e 3 or 4 men in town who he wish­
ed were served the same as they said IVOT^an Was; this he denied, and then
said that if any man should do as Morgan had done, be would deserve to have
his throat cot, and that any man who belonged to a religious society and
should come out from it, and try to pull it ^own, he would deserve to be served
the same way. He (witness) met said Tuell some days after, and reminded
him of what he had said about a church member, when Tuell said if hebad
said so, it was wrong and be was sorry for it. What Tuell said about Mor­
gan appeared to be bis deliberate opinion. He, witness, had frequently bad
conversations with said Tuell upon the subject of Morgan, sometimes pleas­
antly and sometimes in warmth. He knew Tuell to be a mason, or expected
that be was.
Ques. Do you belong to the antiraasonic party, which has voted itself to
be a political party; are you one of a committee appointed by that party?
Ans. 1 do not consider myself boundto any party whatever. I am under
no pledge to any, and bold myself free to act according to my own senti­
ments, but 1 profess to be an antimason, and opposed to all secret societies.
Qjues. Dm you attend the antimasonic state convention at its last meeting
in Providence?
Ans. He did. He was chosen by a meeting of those who are opposed to
secret societies, inMiddletown,
Ques. Was you appointed on a committee by that convention? What
committee?
Ans. He was. appointed on a committee; the county committee.
Ques, Did you ever know the grand hailing sign of masons, or any m
a*»
sonic sign given in any court to any judge, juror, officer or witnesses by any*
mason? %
Ads. No; ne has never been in courtbut very little.
Question by request. Have you at any time while on a jury, had conver-
satio* witb-afellow juror, respecting the masonic trials as they were catted,
m this to**, if so what information: did be give you?
Ads* - Some where about three years ago, he was taken up as a juror while
here in town, upon a case in which the town of Newport was interested,
Stephen Barker, of Middletown, was one of the drawn jurors from Middle-
town, but was not one uf the Jury. .He does not recelleciwhich court it was^
Thinks it was the fall term of the court, is not certain, while on the jwryone
of the jurors from Tiverton, a stranger to him, and whose mune he dote not
Digitized by Google
recollect) nor from what part of Tiverton bo came, in answer to witness*re*
mark that be never bad been on a jury before, told witness that he never had
but once, and that was on one of the masonic cases, and many of the jurors *
beingobjected to for various causes and taken off, an officer was sent over to
Tiverton to take up jurors, and they bad a man there at the four corners to
tell him, the officer, who to take, that he, the juror, was one that was taken
up and came over, and sat on the case. He did not tell witness who the nun
was, that was stationed at the corners, nor the name of the officer. He meaot
that the man was placed at the corners by those masons who were opposed to
Dr. Case. The juror did not tell witness how he came by bis knowledge, and
he, witness, did not ask him. The juror said that that was the way he came to
be onthe jury, and he should not haVe been otherwise. The juror said he had
changed his opinion from what it was, when he was on tb£ jury who tried the
case. Thecase he, the witness sat on as above mentioned, was the caseof
Clarke Rodman, town treasurer, vs. Nicholas Hazard.
Questions by reqdest of George Turner to S. S. Peckham. 1st. Had you
heard Tuell say, that there were 3 or 4 men in this town, that he wished !
served in the same way Morgan was; ifso, who were those men, where did he
say so, and what was the occasionomsd what were the circumstances?
1st. In answer to this, he say^he never heard him say so; he witness i
was told by Thomas Sherman, and he thinks by George Bowen. Witness I
never beard that Tuell named the 3 or 4 men, or any one'else.
2d. Have you at any time heard other masons, whose names you do not
recollect, justify or palliate the killing of ^lorgaif?
2d. To this he answers that he does not know that he has.
Samuel S. Peckham.
> The above uamed Samuel S. Peckham, being again called says,
Quest. Was Benjamin Grinnell the name of the juror, who had the conver­
sation with you stated in your deposition.
Ans. I have ascertained that that jurors name was Grinnell.
Quest. Were you a church member in the same church with James M. Tu­
ell and Robert Dennis; if so, have you withdrawn yourself, or left offcom
m
u­
ning with them on account of their being masons?
Ans. He was a church member with them, and has left offcommuning with
them as church members, but not on account of their being magons. I have
left thembecause they deny what thousands have declared about masons and
put their names to; and I therefore consider them as not acting up to their
profession.
Quest. Have you said and do you think that adhering masons are not to
be believed on oath because they bare taken oatbs not to tell the truth?
Ans. That is only my opinion; my meaning is that a mason has takena
solemn obligation not to disclose the secrets of masonry; of course I cannot
believe any thing he says about those secrets. In mattersv>fbusiness I w
ould
believe hita as soon as any one else.
J In answer to a question he says, that he never had any eorersation with
said Grinnell but in the Senate chamber when on the jury witn him. Never
saw said Grinnell before nor since, to know him, as he recollects. He knew
the name of the man was Grinnell, because Mr. Stephen Barker who was os
the jury so informed him a few days after the court, and has since, lately,
again soinformed him. Samuel S. Peckham
.
JVttiiam Part, ofAhe town tod county of Newport, of lawfiit age, ee *d-
earn oath doth declare, and say in answer to the following interrogatories:
Quest. Are you a freemason?
- Ans. I araaet.
; 64
D
ig
itizedb
yGoogle
Quest. Do you recollect a ceavere&tioa-taking place ia your store about two
mouths ago, between Samuel S. Peckhem and James M. Tuell, uponthe sub­
ject of the murder ef Morgan?
Ans. I remember tbey had some conversation, but do not now recollect
what it was nor the time.
Quest, by committee. Have you any impression on your mind that any
thing was said by Tuell in that conversation which went to justify the murder
of Morgan?
Ans. He can’t soy that he has; he can’t recollect any conversation of the
kind. Tuell observed that there were some in Newport who deserved to be
served withthe same sauce, or somethingto that effect: this the witness is sure
of, because he said to Tuell, “Now you are going too far.” He (Tuell) and
Psckham got quite earnest in the conversation. Sami. S. Peckham’s depo­
sition being read to him, he further says, that he now recollects Peckham’s
telling him he had heard that he said the same as stated in said deposition^ but
does not remember Tuell’s answer. The conversation mentioned above iook
place immediately after
Quest by Geo. Turner. Who began the conversation in your store; who
was preseat besides yourself and your brother John; pnd did Tuell mention
any names of those whom he wished served as Morgan bad been served?
Ans. He does not recollect. W illiam V ars.
George Bowen, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, on af-\
Urination, doth declare and say, in answer to the following interrogatories:
Quest. 1st Have you ever heard James M. Tuell make use ofany express­
ions going to justify or palliate the murder of Wm. Morgan? 2d. Have yoi*
•ver heard said Tuell say that there were three or four men in town who de­
served to be served the same as they said Morgan was?”
Ans. to 1st part. Whatever conversation 1 have had with Tuell has been,
in a joking manner. I think that once in his shop he said in ajoking manner
that Morgan had been served right; do not recollect that he ever had any-,
conversation with him upon the subject in witness’ store; remembers that
Peckham and TutU were once there, hut does not recollect what was said.
Ans. to 2d part ofquestion he saith, he does not recollect that he ever heard
him say so. Whatever I have heard Tuell say upon the subject has always
been considered by me as mere joking.
Quest by request of George Turner. Did you ever hear Tuell make such,
an expression bn morethan one oocasion?
Ans. He only recollects once. . .
Quest, by request of same. Did you ever hear any other mason attempt to
palliate orjustify the murder of Morgan?
Ans. He don’t recollect that he ever did. The witness further saith that
he has been in the habit of playing mason or antimason just as he happened to
fall in with them. Geo. Bowe?i. .
Thomas Sherman, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, oa;
solemn oath doth declare and say in answer to the following interrogatories:
Quest. Have you ever on any occasion, at Geo. Bowen’s store or else­
where, heard Jas. M. Tuell justify or palliate the murder of Morgan ? •Have,
you ever heard him say there were three or four men in town who he wished
were served the same as they said Morgan had been served, or words to that
effect?
Ans. He can’t recollect any thing ofthe kind. About the time that anti-,
masonryfirstcame upr he frequently saw Tuell and Sami. S. Peckham togeth­
er, sometimes iahis (witness’) shop, sometimes in Gep, Bowen’s; they would
r j , , _ -
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
both get high, and witness and other*would pot fn to keep it up; bet they al­
ways ended in good humor. Tuell is a man easily irritated, and he, witness,
and Geo. Bowen and others would amuse themselves by working upon him
until he Would get into a passion, but after a while he ceased to
be so operated upon aud they then let him alone. He never coo*
sidered any thing that was said as having a serious point of view, nor cash#
now recollect any thing about those conversations; he considered it all asa
piece* ofsport.
Questions by request of George Turner. Did you ever tell Tuell that Petk-
ham meant to send Tuell a letter about what he had said?
An*. That Peckham told him he meant to or he believed he should send
Tuell a letter, and this, he, witness mentioned to TuelH
Quest Did you ever know Tuell order Peckham not to come to his shop
again?.
A%
p. That he dont recollect that he ever did.
Quest. Do you know who used to begin these conversation*? *
Ans. He cant say who begun the conversations.
Quest. Did you or did you] not begin your answer to Mr. Hazard's first
question, by saying, “I have forgetten what the conversation was?1
1
Ans. He does not recollect how he began the answer?
The said Thomas Shearman being recalled, says, in answer to questionsby
George*Turner, as follows:—
Quest. Did you ever hear James M. Tuell mention that there were intUi
town some persons whom he wished served as Morgan had been, and ifso
who were they, and when was it?
Ans. I do not recollect any thing of the kind.
Quest. Do you recollect haring ever stated to Abner Peckham, or nny
other person, that youhad heard Tuell say so?
Ans. I do not; both the Mr. Peckham’s, Samuel and Abner, spoke tom
s
about it the other day, and I told them I did not recollect any thing abouttbs
conversations refered to.
Question by committee. Are you or have you been a mfson?
Ans. No; nor an antimason. Thomas Sheaemah.
James M. of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, oo
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following ^mterrogt-
tones.
Quest. Are you a freemason, if so how many degrees in masonry hire
you taken, by what lodges or chapters were you admitted, and at what tim
e?
Ans. I am a freemason, and about July, 1826 took three degrees is Si.
John’s lodge, No. 1. Newport.
The part of Samuel S. Peckham’s deposition which relates to witness be­
ing read to him, he saitb in answer thereto, that said Peckham has freqoesl-
ly been at bis shop and endeavored to irritate him about masonry, generally
would iatroduce the Morgan business; would say provoking things to witness,
would tell him if he and Rook Dennis did not renounce masonry, callingit
that wretched society, that he would no longer consider them as ehuitb
*members, sometimes he would call witness Morgan, who in reply would all
him anti; frequently both would get very angry and say very hard thingsto
each other, which they neither of them meant. I told Peckham several tim
es
that I did not wish to talk with him upon the subject any more, I w
ished
he would drop it and talk’ upon things more (profitable, or not come ta m
y
•hop, but he would not ; at the time we were talking about£Morpn, I'told
him I knew nothing about it, he replied you do, you well know mat Morgu
waa murdered aud all you masons know the tame. I answered it wasast m
,
T homas S&earmait.
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
Oi*t I did not know it and would not belong to any society whidh would bo
concerned in any such business: afterwards, I think it was .the some day 6ft
whichT bad the last conversation with him already stated, Thomas Shear- *
man came to me and said Peckltam informs me, he intends writing youa let­
ter, to which I answered I dent wishto receive any letter from him, but ifho
tftad any thing to say, and would come to my shop like a man, he would hear
him, but not any thing about masonry; afterwards he got me to make a pump
for him, and called and asked him to go and set it, and said if I would, he
would make an aatimason ofhim, that I was half a one already. As to the
conversation refered to in said deposition as having taken place in Var’s store,
he sajth, that he recollects going to said store, when he thinks one of the
Vars or else Peckham, began a conversation about Morgan, it was one of
the three. He deos not rememberwhat the conversation was more than a child,
be was not in the store more than three minutes, was in a hurry and left as
nooa as he had got what he went for; he dont recollect that he ever said to
any person that there were three or four persons in town who ought to be se/>
wed in the same manner they sayMorgan was; he is sure he never thought so.
Question by request of Geo. Turner. When did the conversation at Vars
Sake place, and who besides the two Mr. Vars, was present.
Question 2 d. by do. Did you ever begin conversations at your shop or
elsewhere with Peekbaro about Morgan’s affair.
Ans. 1st. He says he does notrecollect.
2d. He says he don’t recollect ever having commenced the conversation
with him at his shop or elsewhere:; it would be commenced sometime, by one,
sometime the other, by passing compliments. Peckham calling him Morgan,
and witness calling him brother anti. James M. T ucll.
Sworn to before B. Hazard one ofthe Committee*
Newport, Jan. 3d. 1832.
Benjamin GAnnell,. of Little 'Compton, in the county of Newport, of
lawful age, on.solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the fol­
lowing interrogations.
Ink Were you one of the petit jury of the March term Sup. Judicial
Court, A. D. 1828, on trial of a case between Clarke Rodman, Town
Treasurer of Newport, and Nichols Hazard*?
Ans. I was.
Int. Were the following persons on that jury with voU, viz: Jonathan
Dennis, Stephen Barker, Clarke Chace, 2d, Samuel Borden, Stephen
Simmons, Hazard K. Carpenter*, Gideon Peckham, Johnson Whitman,
Jonathan Anthony, Samuel S. Peckham, Jethro Peckham.
Ans. I was not acquainted with many of the jurors. I recollect
Clarke Chace, 2d, Samuel Borden, of Tiverton, and Stephen Simmons
of Little Compton; the latter came into town with me. The rest of the
jurors I do not know the names of, except that there was one of the
name of Peckham, who had a mark orsomething on his chin; his Christ­
ian name I don’t know. t
- -Int. Was you also on the petit jury >
at the March term same court,
1828, on the trial ofaoase between St. J6hn’s Lodge, No. 1, in New­
port, and Francis C. Schaffer; if so were the following persons on that
jury with you, viz: William Howland* (Little Compton,) foreman, W a
Turner, Nathaniel Church, Jr., L. Gates, Abraham Barker, John
Hambly, George Durfee, Godfrey Bennett, Arouet LeMunyon, God­
frey Cooke, John frisk.
•Ans. I recollect William-Howland, Nathaniel Church, John Hambly,
Digitized by Google
\
Arouei I^eMunyon, Godlrey Cookeand Jokn Irifb; but'do not kaoir
the names of the rest.
Int. Were you a drawn juror, or taken upon a venire; if the fetter by
what officers were you summoned?
Ans. I was taken upon a venire. The officer’s name was Carr, tfee.
Sheriff, who was attended by George Howland, Deputy Sheriff, whoa*
I heard say that evening that,Mr. Carr had requested him to come witfe
him, as he, (Carr,) was unacquainted with the people, and did not
know who were qualified to serve as jurors.
Int. Who else were taken for jurors by said officers at that time ?
Ans. William Howland, Jphn Irish, Godfrey Cooke.
Int. Had you any knowledge or any reason to believe that either o f
the parties in said case, or any of their friends, had any agency or direc­
tion in the taking up of yourself or any of the other persons you have
uamed, for jurors?
Ajis. I had no such knowledge or belief; on the contrary it was men­
tioned by George Howland that the object of their coining there was to
get jurors who did not know any thing about the case.
Int. Have you ever from that time to this had any reason to believe
that any improper influence was employed on that occasion in taking up
those persons and yourself?
Ans. No.
Int. Have you ever expressed any such belief to any one at any time ?
Ans. I have no recolleetion at all of having done so in any way or
shape.
Question by George Turner. Did Mr. Carr summon you on both of
the juries you have mentioned ?
Ans. I was one of the drawn jurors at the March term, 1829, before
mentioned.
Question by George Turner. Had you‘ever been on a jury before
that time; if so how many times and in what cases?
Ans. I had been on the grand jury twice before the March terro^
1828, but never before on the petit jury to my recollection.
’ ' his
G aiN iniiL .
• mark. ^ = ■
Daniel Howland, Enq. of Jamestown, of lawful age, on solemn oath,
doth declare and say in answer to the following interrogatories.
• Quest. Have youever known the hailing sign of masons given in any
court to any judge, juror or officer, or witness, by any mason ?2d. Have
you ever knotvn an/ judge, juror, officer, witness, or other person to
obey any such sign, and to make any difference in his conduct between
parties on account of one being a mason ?
Ans. To the first part of the question he answers he never did. To
the second part ofthe question he answers he never did.
Question by request. Was'you ever on a jury when one of the par*
ties in the case on trial was a mason and the other not a mason, and
were there any masons on that jury, if so, what was the result?
i Ans. He answers that somewhere towards forty years ago he was
oil a jury, when acase was tried, where one of the parties was a ma­
son, when the jury went into their room, eleven of them were imtnefdi-
ately agreed, the otherjuror would not agree, and held out nntil the coatt
were obliged to take the papers and no verdict in the case was rendered:
on the next trial he.understood that a verdict was given the same way
that the eleven jurors were in favor of giving it; the case was one ofthe
~§8
Digitized by
59
plainest he ever heard. The juror who held out was a mason. The rest of
the jury a number of times asked him who held out, why he would not
sign, and all the reply he made, was, that it was not agreeable to his wish­
es or to his mind, or something ofthatkind. He did not know of his own
knowledge that the juror was a mason, neither that one of the parties
was a mason, and not the other; nor did he know that there were not
more ihan one mason on the jury. But while the jury were out some of
them to account for the twelfth man holding out, said why he is a mason
and one of the parties is a mason, to which the juror made no answer as
I recollect, who tile person or persons were, that made the remarks wit­
ness dont recollect. Dont recollect the case or parties, thinks it was the
superior court. It is rather his impression that Thomas Arnold was fore-
mau; but cannot recollect; cannot now recollect names of any of the
jury, but thinks Abner Cundall was one, and a Mr. Oxx of town. Does
not recollect any other instance of the kind. He is rather of opinion
that the twelfth juror was a Newport man, but cant be positive.
D aniel H owland.
John Stevens, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interrog-^
atories.
Ques. Was you one of a jury at the court of common pleas in this
county, at May term, A. D. 1808, on the trial ofa case between Nich­
olas Webster and Dr. Jonathan Easton; if so, were the following per­
sons on that jury with you, viz: Daniel Howland, (foreman,) William
Malbone, Nathaniel Lyndon, Clarke Taggart, B. Taber, Gideon Sea-
bury, Joseph Stevens, George Engs, John Barker, Philip Peckhairi
and David Sherman.
Ans. I was one of the jury on that case, the time I can’t recollect,
but it must have been about that time; recollect part of the jury; viz:
said Howland, Malbone, Seabury and Engs.
Ques. Did that jury agree on a verdict, if not howwere they divided?
Ans. I think the court took the papers from us about 12 o’clock, think
it was Saturday night. The jury 1 think were about equally divided,
some were for giving a verdict, and some not. I was for not giving a
verdict, and I think about halfthe jury were of the same way.of think­
ing; I think George Engs was. Mr. Howland was for giving a verdict
for plaintiff; he put his foot down and said he wouldnever deckle against
the note, which he said was a true genuine note, or words to that effect.
Ques. Did you hear any one charge one of the jury with holding out,
because he was a mason, and one of the parties was a mason? Did you
know that either party was a mason, or that any of the jury were masons?
Ans. I answer in the negative, and am satisfied no such charge could
Have been made as half the jury were on each side as well as.1 recollect.
Ques. Do you recollect on which side William Malbone was?
Ans. He was very restless, and anxious to get out of the room, and
did not appear to care any thing about the case.
Ques. Are you a mason, or have you ever been?
Ans. I am not, and hope never to be; but that I may not he misun­
derstood, I add that I am equally as far from being an antimason. ,
1 ■v John Stevens.
John Prentice, of Providence, Merchant tailor, having taken the affir­
mation says, in answer to the following interrogatories.
Answer to interrogatories on paper marked D.
Ans. to 1st. I have been a freeiriason, arid have taken three degrees
in masonry. I took these degrees in St. Johri’s lodge, No. 2, in P rQ V -
Digitized by b o o g i e
idence, R. I. about eighteen years ego. I consider myselfnow as slto^
gether opposed to masonry; and was informed about a year ago rather
unofficially, that I bad been turned out of the lodge, but do not know
for what cause.
Question by request. Are you a political &ntfm&soft£
Ans. If being opposed to masonry, constitutes an antimason; I anf
one to all intents and purposes. I am not qualified by the laws ofthe
State to vote.
Question by request. At what time did you become opposed to the
institution ofmasonry, and what was the particular circumstances which
led to your conversion to antimasonry ?
Ans. I became opposed to the institution ofmasonry, after I had be­
come satisfied from investigation that the whole fabric ofthe masonic fin-
stitution was based upon falsehood and deception. My mind was also for­
cibly impressed with the influence of the principles of masonry, as they
were legitimately carried out in the forcible abduction and murder of
William Morgan. And also in the obstructions which were thrown in
the way by masons, in obedience to their masonic principles, of the
conviction of those who were concerned in that wicked transaction. My
mind became interested to inquire respecting the truth or falsehood of
masonry, in the winter of1829; and my mind was fully satisfied onthis
subject during the winter of 1829 and 1830.
Ans. to 2d. there was.
Ans. to 3d. 1 recollect distinctly, that on taking the first degree,
these preliminary remarks were made to me; and in regard to the other
two degrees I do not recollect distinctly whether they were or were
not made to me; I think it probable that they were.
Ans. to 4th. I do not think that 1 could repeat these obligations.
The obligations now read to me from paper marked A. in the three
first degrees are substantially the obligations which I took, with these
variations and additions: the word affirm was not used in the oaths which
I took. I used the word swear. “ The word my b o d y instead of that,
referring to tongue, was used in the first obligation. I do not recollect
the words “within thefirst angle os*square ofmywork9
*in the fellow craft's
obligation. In the master’s obligation which I took, this expression W
in the penalty^4‘that there might not be the least track, trace or remeiri*
brance of so vile and perjured a wretch, as I should be, were I wilfbnj
to violate these, my solemn obligations/* I do not recollect any other
additions.
Ans. to interrogatories on paper marked E.
Ans. to No. 1. This I took.
Ans. to No, £. This I took.
Ans. to No. 3. The words “ and they left to my only election9
9were not
administered to me.
Ans. to 4th. I do not recollect these expressions.
Question by request. How many points were there in the Master
mason’s oath asyou took it ?
Ans. I do not recollect. *
AT*s* to 5th. he recollects that the charge now read to him from
Webb’s Monitor, page 46, New-York edition, A. D. 1802, was read to
him at his initiation in the first degree. He presumes that the charges
now read to him from same book were the charges read to him at his ini­
tiations into the 2d and 3d degrees. He considered the principles in­
culcated in those charges’to be binding upon him, as being sound moral
principles, and as being as binding before as after they were read to
him, he considered them as the advice and instruction of the masters of
the lodge.
Digitized by G o o g l e
To ih e 6th* ho answers that he had no meaiMof ascertaintoHbcfcvfr
he went to the lodge. He did not know that there were' oaths to he
taken.
Ana. to 7th. The situation in'which I was placed, and the manner in
which the oaths were communicated made it impossible for me to under
stand them.
Ana. to 8th. I did not tnake any inquiry as to themeaning ofthe oathe
at the time of taking them, or immediately afterwards*
Ana. to 9th. I took the two last degrees the same evening. I had no
scruplea respecting these oaths at the time oftaking them.
Ana. to 10th. I do not know that I ever came to any definite conclu­
sion on these two points. I did not believe that, if 1 broke these obliga­
tions, the lodge would take my life. I considered that as a moral being
I bad no right to take the life ofany individual.
Ana. to 11th. I consider the oaths, signs, and manner ofworking and
the manner in which lodges are arranged as the secrets and mysteries
ofmasonry. I know ofno other secrets and mysteries ofmasonry, than
those disclosed in Bernard’s light on masonry, and in Allyn’s Ritufl.
Ana. to 12th. I believe they are generally, I knew of no secret by­
laws, or other book containing secrets,
Ans. to 13th. I do not.
Ans. to 14th. I did not for some considerable time after taking them
end until I saw them placed before me in print, and had an opportunity
to examine them deliberately. I think I saw those oaths in a hook cal­
led Jachin and Bcaz, which some masons used to have in the lodge, I
believe the same winter that I was initiated; it was considered rather
unmasonic to read the oaths in this book in the lodge; and I did sot
study them for the purpose of forming any opinion upon them. In the
winter of 1829 and 1830, I formed my opinion upon masonic oaths.
Question by request. Did you not frequently hear these oaths ad­
ministered in the lodge, and could you not understand them as well
then, as by seeing them printed.
Ans. I repeatedly heard them administered during the space of two
or three years, but 1 did not understand them. I believe the original
object of masonry was to get together and have a high frolic, and to
promote the interests of each other to the exclusion of the interests of
others, and to bring the religion of the New Testament into contempt. I
cannot say, what is the object of those masons, whd now endeavor to up­
hold this Institution. I do not believe that those masons with whom I
have an acquaintance, believe that they are upholding an institution
based upon such principles.
Question by request. Where do you find the proofs ofthi9, on what
do you found your opinion?
Ans. In all the prayers used in the lodge the name of Jesus Christ
is left out; and there is no reference made to Jesus Christ in any ofthe
ceremonies. The prayers are addressed to God. The masonic insti­
tution conflicts with the religion of the New Testament in this respect;
the one I believe to be a system of truth, and the other a system of
falsehood.
Question by request. Do you know of a quotation of a passage from
the Testament in a masonic book from which the name of the Saviour
has been excluded, although it appears as printed in the Testament?
Ans. In one of Paul’s Epistles which is used in the lodge the name
©four Lord Jesus Christ, which occurs in the original text is left out.
^ think the quotation is embraced in a charge in Webb’s Monitor.
Question by reque^ Did you-ever read hear read to you the
Digitized by Google
charge to masons in the first part of the ree«ttd*of£t. Joim/s lodge, «a
which it is said that the universal religion, or the religion of nature is*
the only religion taught in the lodge, or words to that effect.
Ans. I never did.
Question by the committee. What do you* understand is meant Uy
the word God?
« Ans. 1 understand it to mean that being who created and upholds
the universe.
Question by request. In whose name is a witness sworn in a courtof
law ?
Ans. I decline answering this question.
Ans. to 16th. I never did.
Ans. to 17th. I never did.
Question by request. Did you ever have a conversation withm a ­
son relative to his obligation to conceal a crime if communicated to.hun
masonically ?
Ans. I had a conversation with a mason on this subject a year ago
this last summer. This mason was Benajah Warner, of Providence,
and there were no other persons present at the time of this conversa­
tion, but said Warner and myself. He asked me why I had renounced
masonry, and I told him that one reason why I had, was, that I consid­
ered the principles of masonry as inconsistent with my duties as a citi­
zen. He asked me to show him in what respect I considered them in­
consistent? And I then stated to him the following case, by way ofil­
lustration, (referring him to his masonic obligation and to that part of it
which required him to keep a brother’s secret in every respect save
mwrder and treason) that if a brother mason should be gpilty of burning
a neighbor’s house and should come and communicate to him the fact,
and require him to keep the transaction secret; and I asked himhow
he could consistently with his obligation as a citizen keep his masonic
obligation? And I asked him what he would do in such a case? And
he replied that he would not tell of it, but let people find it out as they
could. There was no reference to any trial in a court ofjustice.
Ans. to 18th. I cannot say that they do. I never heard any politi­
cal question discussed in a lodge.
Ans. to 19th. I never did.
Ans. to 21st. I did not ; my moral obligations I considered para­
mount to all others.
Question by request. Have you known any instances where the
influence of masonic obligations haye been extended to the prejudice of
those who were not masons ?
• Answer. I have. Some time in the summer of the year 1830,1w
as
called upon by a young man by the name of William Hall, who then
resided in Providence, but now resides in Connecticut, I believe m
Norwich, to become histbai], he having been sued by Mr. Griffin Child,
of this town; and I, not being sufficient bail, called on Mrf(Lowell
Adams and requested Mr. Adams to become bail with me for saiil Haifa
appearance in Court,' to which said Adams consented; and a few day*
after said Adams and myself had become bail, said Adams remarked to
me that he was apprehensive that we had got ourselves into difficulty,
€6*that said Hall was a great villain. I asked saidAdams howhe knew
that‘
fact; and he observed to me that he was told it by a brother paeon
as a mason; and I asked him who the man was; and he refused to tell
me .his name,*saying it was communicated to him as a mason, or upon
the principles of masonry. I ascertained afterwards that it was the very
manwho had caused the writ to be served upon said Hall. This iq*
6*:
Digitized by i ^ o o Q l e
J6i
Answer to 25th.
Answer to 26th.
Answer to 27th.
Answer to 26th.
wssGriffcn Child. The suit which W
-a#brought was fur slender. After
thesuit was withdrawn said Adams told me it was said Child.
Answer to 22d. I never did.
Question by request. Did the lectures treat of the duty of obeying
the grand hailing sign of distress when given?
Answer. After taking the master's degree, the master of the lodge
explained to me the duty of dbeying the .grand hailing sign of distress, x
when given, or the word when uttered. I do not recollect that the
lectures explained this any more than other masonic duties.
Answer to 23d. I have already answered this question.
I never had any experience on this subject.
I am wholly unacquainted with that subject,
I believe it is.
I do not know, not having been in a lodge for sev­
eral years; and I have no information on this subject.
Answer to 29th. I am not informed.
Answer to 30th. I do not know'any thing on this subject.
Answer to 31st. 1 believe it is in lodges of the same degree. To the
second part of the question I would say, 1 have no particular informa­
tionon this subject.
Question by request. What is understood by a worthy brother*
Answer. 1 believe that is considered among masons, that a brother
mason is to be considered worthy until he has been adjudged otherwise
by the lodge to which he belongs. *
Answer to 32d. Not to my knowledge.
Answer to 33d. I have had repeated conversations with different
mtsons, at different times, upon the subject of the Morgan outrage, and
the impressions which I received from their remark# lead me to believe
that they justified the abduction. and murder of Morgan, upon masonic
principles. My recollection is soindefinite, that I should not name any
individual. These conversations were, I am pretty positive, withintwo
years last past, and were in Providence; but I do not recollect any
particular place in tbis town. I do not reeollect any particular expres­
sions of masons whieh lead me to these impressions; and I do not recol­
lect any particular occasions upon which these conversation#tookplace.
Question by.request. Was the printed letter now showw&i you with
your.name printed under it, and which is hereunto annexed, your letter,
or published by you ?
Ans. This is my letter.
* P rovussncs, J-ulv 25, 1034.
Dear Sir—In answer to your questions in reference to the dochura-
tion set forth by the grand lodge of Rhode-Island, viz. “ We‘solemnly
aver in-the*sight of heaven, and appeal to the Great Searcher of hearts
to;test our sincerity, that we have never received, given, nor counte­
nanced any obligation requiring or /sanctioning the sacrifice of human
life as the penalty for disclosing masonic secrqts, ” I would simply re­
mark, that I have taken the following degrees in saasonvy, viz. entered
apprentice, fellow craft, and master mason. Annexed to the obligation
of an entered apprentice is the following .penalty, viz. *
“ Binding myself under no less penalty than to have my throat,cist
across from ear to ear, ,my tongue torn outby the.Toots, and mybodjr bu­
ried in the rough sands of the sea where the tide ebbs, and flowsrtjvice
intwenty-four hours.” ‘
•Annexed to the fellow craft's obligation is the following penalty>-*-
“ Binding myself under no less penalty than . t o havemy. leftbreast torn
open* and my heart and vitals taken fromthence and given 'asa>prey
to the fowls of the air, and wild beasts ofthe field,” &c. -
Digitized by Google
Annexed tothO ttitUter’ti bath is the following penalty:—*
myself under no less penalty than to have my body severed in two in the
; midst, my bowels burnt to ashes, and the ashes scattered in the fbor
winds of heaven, that there might not the least track or trace of remem­
brance remain among men or masons, of so vile and peijuted & wretch
us I should be, were I ever to prove wilfully guilty of violating any part
of this my solemn oath or obligation of a master mason.”
I have repeated the above penalties substantially as I received them
in St. John’s Lodge, No. 2, in this town, from Worshipful Samuel Jack-
son, 2d. There may possibly be some trifling omissions, and the phra­
seology may not in every particular be precisely the same. I am confi­
dent however, as I before remarked, that they are in substance and
meaning the same as were administered to me by Worshipful Samuel
Jackson 2d, in St. John’s lodge, No. 2, Providence, Rhode Island.
After reading the above you will not be at a loss to determine what
my opinion is respecting the declaration of the grand lodge. Perhaps
the grand lodge know of some process by which to preserve the file of
a human being though his throat be cut, his tongue torn out by the roots,
his body buried, &c. In which case perhaps, they would be justified
in making the above assertion; but if they know of no such process, I
cannot conceive how they could consistently with the facts in the case,
make such a declaration.
I would also remark that during the time that I was a member of the
lodge, ([which I believe was about eighteen years) the former part of
which time I was quite active, having filled the office of junior deacon,
I never heard any one attempt to give any other explanation to the
oaths and penalties of masonry, than those that strike the mind when
they are first repeated, viz: a plain, literal signification. I have seen
a considerable number take these degrees, and I never heard any one
attempt to explain these oaths and penalties different from what they
read. I would further remark that during my attendance at the lodge
I had frequent opportunities to hear the obligations of masonry adminis­
tered to candidates, and I am confident that the idea of expulsion from
the lodge as a punishment for a breach of masonic obligations, was nev­
er mentioned either directly or indirectly. Respectfully yours,
Rbv. Bair Potter. JOHN PRENTICE.
Question by request. Were you expelled from the lodge; if se, in
what form were you noticed previous to your expulsion ?
Ans. I was not noticed at all; and knew not for what reason I was
expelled,
Question by request. Had you divulged to any person when you
heard of your expulsion, what is called the signs, ceremonies, paau
words and grips ofmasonry, or was it because you understood you had
bom testimony in favour ofthe revelation of its obligations ?
Ans. As to the first part of the question, I think it was very probable
that I had. In answer to the second part of the question, 1 think it as
very probable that that Was the reason.
In answer to a question by request. I think I have been told by naa-
sons, whether in a friendly or threatening manner I cannot tell, that my
speaking against masonry would injure me in my business.
Question by request. What explanation did you receive of the rea ­
son why, as you advanced in the degrees, the number of times the cable
tow was placed around your neok or body was increased ? Did it aftodo
tothe binding nature of your obligation? -
Ans. I think k was so explained at the time. John Prkntkr.
Digitized by v ^ o o g l e
Benajah Warner, of Providence, shipwright, sworn, says'
Quest, by the committee. Do you recollect the conversation imput­
ed to you in the deposition of John Prentice now read to you ?
Ans. I did not have this conversation with said John Prentice, which
be imputes to me in his deposition; and he never put the question to
me which he states in said deposition. I had a conversation with said
Prentice on the subject of masonry, and asked him why he renounced
masonry, and he alluded to the masonic obligations and I asked him if
he found any thing in his obligations ungentlcmnn like, unchristian like,
or unlawful; and lie signified that I was right in opinion in respect to
the three lower degrees which wc had taken, but in the higher degrees
which we had not taken, he said, that the masonic obligations were such
that a mason was bound to uphold a brother mason let him do what he
would; and I told him that I did not believe it, because it was not con­
sistent. Said Prentice was a young man and i had a friendship for
him, and I told him that I thought that his seceding from masonry would
injure him: I thought that he had taken a mill', and that his seceding,
instead of injuring other people, would injure himself I had always
known said Prentice from a child, and had heard a good name of him,
and he was much liked. I thought that he, having taken a miIF, would
say things that he ought not to say, that he would thereby lose the con­
fidence not only of masons but of all judicious men.
Question bv request of Walter Paine, Jr. Did you swear in your
master mason’s oath to keep the secrets of a brother, murder and trea­
son excepted?
Ans. The master mason's obligation read to me from paper marked A,
is the same obligation, I think, which I took.
Quest, by request of Walter Paine, Jr. Does not the expression,
■
*
*murder and treason excepted/* show that no other secret but murder and
treason is allowed to be disclosed, when communicated by a brother ma­
son, as such? By murder and treason being excepted, are not all lesser
criihcs included ? Please explain how you construe the master mason’s
oath.
Ans. Ido not consider that this part of the obligation hinds me as a
mason, to keep secret any crime communicated to me by a brother ma­
son a3 a secret.
Quest, by request of Walter Paine, jr. If a mason should commit a
secret to you on the five points of fellowship, which secret was a crime
agahsstfhfe ltwsofthe’State, shoo!®you reveal that seCret^bctbTW-yeu
had made the same known to the lodge?” 1 J
Ana. I would not receive any such secret; as msecret, and would not
keep’it a secret if communicated to me. . . *
Question by request of Waiter Phine, ft. What is then meant by
keeping a brother’s secrets? -
Ans. I consider that the meaning is that a mason should keep suclf
secrets as he promises to keep, If he is a man of hOfaor, and a secret is
communicated to him as such, and he promises to keep it he will keepi
it. His masonic obligation does not bind him to receive any thing, A
a secret, which is unlawful. B enajah W arner.
. . . . . * i
William Trescott, sworn. I belong in Providence^ am a battery hav4
taken ten regular degrees in masonry. ■ * *
Question by B. Cranston. Did :H>hn‘PreHtfee javer rerpacet you te
endeavor to procure his admission into the Providence royal-arch chap-
afar'*free of expense,.on account o f hrs befttg * prfcekBdrife®*
H tN h n ii since the Morgart exdtement^commenoai^ •r
Ans. He did so twice. The first time was a few daya after I receiv­
ed the chapter degrees in 1826: I was in at his shop and he asked me
how I liked the chapter degrees. I told him I liked them very well.
He said he should like to take them, but was not able; he wished 1
would ask some of the old members of the chapter, if they would be wil­
ling to give him the degrees free of expense, as he was a preacher of
the gospel. I told him I would; and 1 did make the enquiry. The
next time was on the evening on which the Rev. Mr. Cheney of Olner-
ville, and Rev. Moses Thachcr, were propounded. I called at Mr.
Prentice’s shop; he commenced the subject of masonry, and inquired
of me if Elder Cheney had taken the chapter degrees. I told him he
had not, but would be propounded that evening; he then asked me if 1
had made the request that he had wished me to for him. I told him I
had, and the regulations of the chapter respecting giving the degrees
gratis to clergymen, were the same as in the lodge; that no clergyman
could receive the degrees free of expense, unless he was an ordained
minister; he then observed that he should like to take the degrees, and
take them with Elder Cheney, and wished me to make one more al~
tempt for him, as he thought that he preached as much as almost ony ,
ordained minister. I told him 1 thought it would be of no use, as the
regulations of the chapter were the same as the lodge; this is all the '
conversation we had at that time. I cannot recollect the time they
were propounded, but it can be ascertained from the records of the
chapter. I did not name any person, when I enquired as to the regular
tions, but asked if a preacher could be admitted, who was not an ordain­
ed minister, free of expense* William T rescoxt*
Jbison Potter, sworn. I reside in Cranston, Rhode Island, and am a
farmer.
In answer to the interrogatories marked A, Isay.
Ans. to 1 st. 1 have been a mason of three degrees; I took these de*
grees in St. John’s lodge, in Providence, about 25 years ago; and ilia
about 2 0 years since I have known any thing of the movements of Wtr*
sonry, not having been in a lodge in that time. I did not consider my­
self a mason 2 0 years ago; it was a quiet withdrawal from what I m
not wish to intermix with; I made no notification to the lodge, and was
pever called tq.an account* ^
Ans. to 2d... l*here was*
.Ann*tOh3d. -I have no recollection of suck being the case, it being to
long since, it may have slipped my mind.
Ana* fa 4th* I think, not literally correct, the substance is fa my
mind.
Ques. Wasthe fcrm of the entered apprentices* oath from the paper
now read to you marked A, annexed to the same as the oall
prhicb you,tookr
t
us* The oath which is now read to me from the page marked A*
think literally the same oath which was administered to me on re­
ceiving the entered apprentice’s degree.
The oath which is now read to me from the paper marked A, is sub­
stantially the same oath which I took, on receiving the fellow crafts* de­
gree;I do not recollect the words *‘within the square of my work.’*
The oath which is new read to me from the paper marked A, is I;
tfcftkj .substantially the same oath which I took on receiving the master
■ah*eop’s degre^. J think these is some verbal difference, but pot epee**
4§Uy topl^ei 4$ejtenpe ofthe oath. 1think there wassomething in ikeoalh
which I took, relative^to the grand hailing sign o f distress ; I thfaiUtoM
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
«7
words ot something like them, *
'furthermore I do prdmiste and swear,
that I will not give the grand hailing sign of distress, except 1 am in real
distress,* or for the benefit of the cV&
ft when at work,” were in the oath
which I took; 90 far I am pretty confident. At.present it strikes niy
mind that this was almost all relative to the grand hailing sign.
Ana. to 5th. I cannot answer strictly^ I nave some faintknowledge
ofone or more charges being delivered to me; the charges I did not
consider binding; i considered them as fatherly advice; the. oaths I
considered of a different character. I recollect a portion of the charge
now read to me from Webb’s monitor, Salem edition, page 41, and be­
lieve only a portion was used. The sentiments, and duties, and princi­
ples, inculcated in the charge given to me, were I think good, and sim­
ilar to the principles in the charge now read.
Ans. to 6th. I ckn't say that I labored much t6*ascertain the oaths,
and if I had I think it would have been in vain; for it appeared to bo
all in darkness beyond the degree I had taken;' and it appeared to be a
principle with the fraternity to keep every thing in perfect darkness.
Ans. to 7th. I can't say that I did from the circumstances in which
the oaths were administered; and from these circumstances I consider
scarcely any person would.
Ans. to the 8th. After I had looked the oaths over, J had but little
doubt about them. I considered I had placed my life at stake. I think
*I took the three degrees within about perhaps six months from the first
to the last.
Ans. to 9th. , I should think not. Some time after 1 studied the lec­
turer with a friend; and I think I then understood the oaths more fully;
(but was not so seriously impressed as I have been since with the conse­
quence ofthe oaths.
Ans. to 10th. Pefrhaps not particularly at the time of taking ttye
oaths, for there was not a dear perception Ofthem on my mind.
Ans. to 11th. I do not remember that I have reed Allyn or Bernard.
I have read Morgan's book on the three first degrees; and I think it
Substantially correct, except such variations as must necessarily occur, *
* where so much is taken from memory.
Ans. to 12th. I had no knowledge of any secret by-laws; the by­
laws were either written or printed and read to me.
Ans. to 13th. I did not.
Ans. to 14th. I think I have answered this question before. , ,
Ans* to l6th. I do not recollect that I ever aid. I recollect to hare
heard masons say, on more than one occasion fI think, when they were
called from labor to refreshment,) not in a loage but in an adjoining
room, that the author of a book called Jackin and Boaz said to have been
f
>ublished in London in 1767, or '68 was put to death by raqsons for pub-
ishing masonry. This book was talked of 25 years ago* The circum­
stances under which I received this information, is faintly on my mind,
but I Considered it then as generally understood among masons that the
author of Jachin and Boaz was put to death by masons for publishing
that book disclosing masonic secrets in violation of his masonic obliga­
tions. I do not recollect the names of the masons.
Questions by committee. 1st. Was the conversation relating to the
killing of the author 6f said book addressed directly and particularly to
yourselfalone, or was it a general remark ?
Ans. It would be difficult for me at this time to. tell how I received
it, but aim confident it was never the subject of general conversation yat
the eating room? , 4,i
2d. Did you heat any mason justify the killing ofsaid person?
Digitized by Google
«6
, Ans. J don't remember ever to have heard that question discussed
in that way as to criminality. It was mentioned as a solitary occur*
rence which took place along time back and probably never would 09*
c\ir again; that was my impression.
Ans. to 17th. I do not remember, that in a lodge I ever heard this
subject touched upon at all. I never knew of any punishments being in­
flicted by a lodge.
Ans. to 13th. Politics and religion were never discussed in a lodge,
‘when I was present. The charges seemed to be of a religious cast.
I think at that time it was a principle in the lodge not to admit of politi­
cal discussions in the lodge.
Ans. to 19th, I never considered that any thing in the obligations
which I took bound me to vote for a mason. There was nothing in the
’ professed obligations or principles of masonry, at that day, which had
the least bearing on the political opinions of the members. I could see
nothing in them that ought to have the least political influence on my
rmind. I have no doubt there have been such influences ; but /do not
consider it as growing out ofthe professed principles of masonry. / speak
of the principles ofmasonry, /understood and professed them twenty
years ago; and since that time /know nothing about it. There was
an influence,, which /consider grew out of the circumstances of a ma­
son’s being dt the head of the lodge, or being a .liberal brother in fur­
nishing refreshment, or similar circumstances. It was a general .indu-
"ence dbtained by such means. In this State I do not recollect of any
instance of a mason’s treating a lodge.
‘Ans. to 21st. / never felt myself so influenced, /consider them aa
pointing that way.
Ans. to 22d. /never saw any thing of the kind.
. Question. What were the subjects discussed in the eating room or
after the lodge was formally closed? v
Ans. Therd was never any regular subjects of discussion; but de»
sultoTy conversation; and songs. rWc usually sang about ourselves,
# *shewing what worthy men we were.
Quest, in your master mason’s oath did you promise to answer the
grand hailing sign of distress; and if that sign was made tp you how
«R
cTyou consider it bound you as a mason?
Ans. /think I did so promise, /believe / did not make up oay
mind how / should have answered; for I never hacl the sign given, nor
did /evfer' giVeit. /think / should have answered k to the amount of
a quarter of a dollar or fifty cents, if it was to a worthy brother; and
under certain circumstances perhaps more; but / should never have an- 1
swered it to the sacrifice of principle.
*
• Quest. Did you ever hear a mason justify the murder of Morgan?
Ans. No; /never did. Ajnson Potter.
John Brotcn, of East Greenwich, Esquire, sworn. He testifies as
follows: I have been a mason; took the first five degrees in North Car­
olina* something rising twenty-five years ago; thinks he took them all
■in the course ot same season; never have taken any more degrees; have
never been in a mark master’s lodge or past master’s lodge since the night
' I took those degrees. 1 was informed soon after I tqok the mark master’s
degree, that it had not been correctly given. I never was told wherein
it was wrong. I have frequented the master mason’s lodge in EaM
Greenwich, and waia‘a member of that lodge for a number of years. I
‘doubt consider myself as a seceding mason; I was expelled from tie
lodgo last Miy\ch, I think; I do not know^for what cause, I do not
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
e»
knowthat I bad,then. violated my masonic obligations. I told the mem*
tors of the lodge that when my term of office as Secretary should have
expired, that 1 should not any more frequent the lodge; and on the
appointment of my successor in said office, I did not any more frequent
said lodge. I gave my opinion freely on the masonic institution before
I was expelled, in relation to its antiquity and its traditions. I am a
political antimason, so far as I consider it-necessary to aqt politically for
the purpose of putting down the institution of masonry. I cannot repeat
verbatim, the masonic obligations which I took, or those which I have
heard administered. I recollected enough of said masonic obligations
to avoid the violation of them.
Question by the Committee. Are the masonic oaths or obligation*
in the three first degrees on paper marked [A] substantially the same
oaths and {obligations which you took, and which you have usually
heard administered in lodges.in these degrees.
Answer. The two first oaths or obligations are substantially the
same; and the third oath or obligation is substantially the same, except
1st, after the words “ murder and treason excepted, 9the words “ and
they at my.own option,” 1 have heard administered in the East Greenwich
lodge. 1 cannot say how this obligation has been administered in other
lodges in this state. I think also in the. penalty in this third oath or
obligation after the. word remembrance, the words “ of so tile a wretch
among men, and more especially among masons, should I ever be guilty of
violating, 4rc.” have been usually administered. I received all the
degrees which I have ever taken in North Carolina, and I may have
blended in my mind the forms of oaths there used with the forms of oaths
in East Greenwich lodge.
Question by request. In the lectures on masonry whqt is the ansujqr
to the question, what makes you a mason ? .
Answer. My obligation.
Question. Did you ever hear any candidate who was presented for
a degree, say that he would not swear, but would affirm}
Answer. I never did.
W as you apked in the. lectures why yoq}bad a cable tow around your
nepk or body?
Answer.. .X remember very little of the lectures and dq.not reiqembqr
what the answer was.
Did the master before giving the oaths, address the candidate oqd
say, have you any.objection to taking an oath which has nothing in it
which interferes with y.our religion or politics?
. Answer. I. have usually heard such an addreep made to the candj"
date before administering each oath.
Dick you ever know? the penalties in the oath? to he expiated in a
lodge. .
Answer. I do not recollect that the penalties were explained in a
lodu/e to mean any thing.but what they say.- -
Did not the by-laws in the East Greenwich lodge provide* for the
expulsion of a member for disclosing any .ofthe transactions of thelodge ?
Answer. I do not recollect any such provision, but there wq% a
provision*in the by-laws that if a member, should violate the by-law#, he
should be e^peliad.^ ^
W ere the obligationsJncorporate^Uinto the by-laws? , ... ..., • •, *
Answer- £io. - . ......e.„ '•
Iir answer to the standing, interrogatories ma«k&dP, I say,*
Answer to l(kh. I did as. far haq. a right to, ahd that I wa# toahare
in the same jurisdiction oyer oth$rf* - . , - . r
I
Digitized by Google
“sA&awer to Hth. I never expected th>at*hdfcbv otStfaNhkAd*#JWrt4
trs^^ieivHth. my religious, moral, sbcial, or civil Obligations. I did not
Exercise any private judgement about it; fVomthe antiquity of the insti­
tution and the character of its members, I thought that the obligations
must be right. Could I be convinced of the truth hf its antiquity and its
traditions, I should feel that I had done wrong in answering any inter**
¥dgtdhries on the subject. In regard to the object of masonry, I have,
"ifipipe times, had anexalted opinion of it, as a benevolent institution;
ht other times I considered it as a mutual insurance, instead of a bener-
*01entinstitution. '
Answer to 16th. I think not, only as they are explained’ in the
tures, and the explanations I do not recollect. ’ , 'j?
1 Answer to l?th. Answer no, nor even expulsion except as It is mefc-
iioned in the by-laws and in the lectures. I never knew of any higher
punishment being inflicted, nor even expulsion.
•Ans. to 13th. I never-heard the subject of politics orreligipn discuss­
ed m any lodge, and I thihk the by-laws prohibit it. ' *
Ans. to 19th. I never did.
Ans. to 21st. N o; and I never myselfpracticed upon such a construc­
tion of said oaths: if I had a favor to bestow I considered I had a right
to select the object ofmy bounty.
Ans. to 22. I never did so far as triyown personal Observation has ex­
tended. 1 never knew any judge, juror or officer to practice upon such
a construction of said oaths. So far as my own observation has extend­
ed, I.nfever knew masonry to be used as a political engine, an4 for the
'purpose ofobstructing the administration ofjustice.
Quest, by request. What is the manner or motion with which amason
enters or leaves the lodge?
.Ans. The mason enters and leaves the lodge with a sign called the
duegard of the degree.
: Quest. Did you consider yourself as a mason bound to give a prefer­
ence to a mason over another person not a mason, under the same cir­
cumstances ?
- Ans. I think, but cannof be positive, that every thing being equal, if
requested by a brother mason, 1 should: but such a case never occur*
red to me,for in almost every instance there has been something by
which to distinguish between the persons, and in such case I hare judg-
•ed accordingly: and I should have acted in the same way between i
brother in the church and a person who was not a brother.
Quest. Did you ever know a mason or his family to receive from a
lodge in charity, as much money qs he had paid in forfees and quarter*
ly dues ?
AnSj%
I knew a case while I utas a member of King Solomon’s Lodge,
that a member had received more than he paid in; I am not positive as
1to the amount.
Quest. How much wasbestowed in charity while you were Secretary
Ofsaid lodge?
Ans. I do hot recollect as any*thing was so bestowed. 1 db not ree-
*oBect that there was any application for charity during that time.
In answer to interrogatories marked E, I say:
Ajis. to 1st I recollect to have heard this in substance inculcated,
but cannot recollect whether in the obligations or lectures, but am in­
clined to believe it was in the lectures: I considered it obligatory. The
words, “ftrthebin&oflk+crvft mfun atwork,n were not m it as I rec­
ollect: rtkimk there were those additional' wotds, 1
1ks for as I could
see the sign by day or hear the word by night,** -
D
ig
itizedb
yGoogle
71
4Afl** to 2d. Xdo not recollect any such thing.
Ads. to 3d. 1 have before answered this*
Ans. to 4th. I think this is not in the obligation; but it is in substance,
somewhere inculcated.
Ans. to 5th. I cannot be positive. John Bhown.
Nathan fffailing, sworn, I reside in East Greenwich, R. I. and \
aman attorney and counsellor at law bv profession. I am a freemason
and have taken the three first degrees in king Solomon’s lodge in said
East Greenwich; and have been master of said lodge.
Quest.. Are the oaths or obligations in the three first decrees in
masonry now read to you from paper marked A. substantially the same
oaths and obligations which you took on receiving these degrees, and
which you heard administered and have administered youself in said
lodge? ,
Ans. These oaths and obligationsare substantially the same, except
1have generally heard these words in the master’s obligation after the
words murder, and treason excepted, 1
1and they at my option. ”
Questions asked' by request. Did you ever hear the clause now
read to you from Allyn’s Ritnal, page 71, relative to the grand hailing,
sign of distress administered in the master’s oath ?
Ans. 1 never did in. the oath;, what the grand hailing sign is, some
tunes is taught in the lectures in lodges; the use of the sign and the du­
ty to obey it, is also taught in the lectures.
Quest. Have these clauses in the master mason’s oath new.read to*
you from page 72, of Allyn’s Ritual, been contained in the oaths admin^
istered in the said lodge ?
1st. '“ That I will, not be at the initiating,, passing or raising a candi­
date at one communication,, without a dispensation from the grand
loge for that purpose?”
2d. I will apprise him of all approaching danger.”
3d. “ I will go on a master mason’s errand, evep barefoot, to save
his life or relieve his necessities.”
4th, Furthermore do I promise and swear, that if any part ofthis ab­
lu tio n be omitted at this time, I will hold myself amenable thereto,
whenever informed.”
A ns. to 1st. In some instances but not generally. *
An&. to 2d. This clause is the same as in the oath before read*.
An#, to 3d, This has not.
A na. to 4th. This has not, . ' .
Question by request.Did you ever as master of the lodge, explain the*
penalties in the three first oaths, if so, at what time and in what manner l
A na. I never did.
Quest., Did you oyer deliver lecture%in the lodge, if so, what suh^
ecta did they treat of?
A nn. I have, and these lectures treated of moral subjects, and ex~
Gaining the manner of initiation and,working in the lodge. I received,
t degree called a check degree,, and understood to be adopted on ac-
:ou£*t Morgan’s disclosures. <
.
Q uest. Did you take an oath, upoareceiving the check degree/
A ss* I do not recollect; I understood that it originated in the grand
odge ofNew-York State, andwasby that lodge recommended toothers.
.N athan W hiting.
of North Jfrugetoo, Rw I# counsellor at law,/being sworn,
» y e r » aisyes to the JkHpwiag qe^stiontv - >
t T
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
Question by the committee. Have you ever heard any frettouwga*
justify or palliate the murder of William Morgan. If so, pleiie*lfpte
the names ofthe persons, what declarations they made, arid Where*sad
under what circumstances? ^
Ans. Some time in the summer of the year 182T, I think, hi a con­
versation with the Rev. Lemuel Burge of riorth Kingston, R.JL wkoto
I understood to be a royal arch mason, respecting the death ofWiUiflxn
Morgan, I told him that I believed that Morgan was dead, an8 thifT
had no doubt he was murdered by masons; for betraying the secrettfof
masonry, or words to that import. He asked me if I believed Morgan**
book to be true. I replied that I did,’that I had not the least douot'ef
it. He then said if Morgan had taken the oaths, that he there (mean­
ing in said book) acknowledged he did, he had forfeited his life accord­
ing to the letter of those oaths he had taken; that according to his o#n
confession he had become a traitor and violated his obligations as alt*-
son. In a conversation with Capt. Joseph Northup ofNewport,3L'I.
at Wickford, respecting masonry, I told him that I was opposed to the
institution, and that 1 believed it to be wicked and corrupt. * He*said
that he knew it to be a good institution, for he had received benefit
from it; and he said in this conversation that he was a mason ; and ho
said, that one time when he was at sea, he was taken and carried oh
board of an armed vessel, and he made himself known to the captain of
the*vessel as a mason; and that consequently the captain took him into
the cabin; and treated him with a great deal ofhumanity, and did'Hof
take from him any of his property. I do not recolleet any other icon*
versation on this snbject. 1
Question by request. When on your passage to Philadelphia, to at*
tend an antiinasonic convention, when asked your object for joining
that party, did you not say it was for the purpose ofobtaining ail office?
but you feared if the Antimasonic party became the dominant partjft
there would be more antimasons than places, and you wouldjfare ft* iron
did when Jackson succeeded, viz. receive no reward for your partffifh*
services. "
Ans. When on my passage from Newport to Philadelphia^ Xwaeta
company with my friend, Mr. John Miller, who is a very pieasaht
agreeable mason; and he asked me if I was bound to Philadelphia* W
the Afitiinasonic convention? I told him that 1 was, he asked ine vrfciI
/expected to get for my services, I told him that / did not ask any
and did not expect to get any thing more, than that the committee tola
me that they would pay my expenses. I asked him, if he was‘
going .01
to the Convention? And he tohl me he was; and J asked him if he vhf
going to take down the proceedings of the convention? And Jthtilltjft*
said he was; and asked me how /expected to be rewarded fbrmy'SWi*
vices and trouble, whether if the antimaaons should obtain tbw
dency / expected to be rewarded with some important office?(dTL
tiUtt ifthe antimason's should have the 'ascendancy, / iho o ld M
tb he rewarded With ally office, arid that Id id not g<5tothe
expecting any other reward thanAvhat I have before staled;)
that if the antimasons should come into power, tmd'btfte
there would be seeeders and unprincipled men enough ten
dffiCed, ah there were in the oUKdemocratic phrty and l a
arid /should be sheeted out*Ufoffice. ^ j
Question by tHbccinmittee. Do you belong to the polities^
sonic party in this State ?
Alik. J do bCtengtoscddfWHyr was oneofthe first
State, and think this the most hcksitpufy li the Statd^
deceived. Jomr
D
ig
itizedb
y
Google
73
J, Lemuel Burge, of Wickford, in the county of Washington and State
of Rhode-Island, do depose and sky, that I hare never introduced the
subject of masonry or antimasonry, in any conversation, before the
world, to my recollection, since the Morgan excitement: That at times,
on the hearing ofdeclarations, often heard by me in my daily walks, /
have taken the ground laid down by the speaker, and raised the follow-
ing interrogatories. On one occasion, happening to meet John Hall,
Ebq. and others, atthenost-office, or at an adjoining shop in this village,
and hearing the said Hall make sundry declarations concerning Mor­
gan’s book and death, I said to him—“ Do you really believe that Mor­
gan is dead?” his answer was, “ Jhave no doubt of it.” “ Do you be­
lieve that the book said to be written by him, is a correct representation
of freemasonry ?” “ I do,” was his reply. “ You believe then that
he was murdered, and that by masons, for having violated all the obli­
gations hethere says he had voluntarily taken?” He replied, “ To be
sure I do.” I then asked him, (solely for the purpose of seeing what
answer would be given) whether as a mason he was not guilty; and if
guilty, whether he had not met with the fate he justly merited? I wait­
ed for an answer, but there was no answer given. I further depose and
say, that this is the ground I have uniformly taken, in order to avoid a
declaration, or any thing that might lead to a declaration of my. opinion
respecting the supposed death of Capt. William Morgan, or his illustra­
tions. I further depose and say,*that on Friday, the 9th instant, John
Hall, Esq. called at my house and informed me that he was summoned
at Providence, as a witness before the Legislative Committee then in
session there, to give evidence concerning a conversation he had with
me sometime in the year eighteen hundred and twenty-seven, relative
to the death of William Morgan. He then read from a paper which he
held in his hand, a statement which he called the substance of the con­
versation, and desired me to correct it if necessary. This Jdid, by tell­
ing him it was altogether incorrect, and then stating it as above, which,
after a little reflection, he acknowledged to be correct. And further
your deponent saith not. Lemuel Burge.,
Washington 88,—North Kingstown, December 17, 1831. / hereby
certify that the within deposition was subscribed and duly sworn to be­
fore me agreeable to law. R ichard T homas, Just. Peace.
Pldxoard Murphy, being sworn, in answer to the following questions, says.
Ques. 1st. . Have you ever told any one that you once while the court was
sitting in this town, saw Capt S. T. Northam and Dr. Cotton, or either of
them, go up to one of the jurors in the 6ourt bouse and put something into his
hands. Please state particularly what you saw, if any thing?
Ans. He can’t tell the time, nor which court was sitting, it was when one
of the masonic cases was on trial, and the parties were pleading. Just as
he went up stairs and entered the lobby, he saw Capt. Northam and Dr. Cot­
ton, together, going very quick towards a man in the lobby, who was at the
same time approaching them, he, the person, was going towards the court
room door, and they towards the stairs; they, Capt. Northam and Dr. Cotton,
parted when the man came up and he went between them; some words in
baste past between the three, but the man did not stop a second, but while
passing he, witness, saw Capt. Northam band him something; what it was
be cannot tell; he don’t know. He did not hear any thing that was said; it
eras said in a lowtone.
Ques. Did you know the man?
Ans. No; but I took eare to go and see where he went, and saw him go
10
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
to to thejury, and sat about midways; which he, witness, should not haTt^om*
but for what be saw.
(lues. Did you mention this at tbg time? To whom?
. Ans. ( I told Capt. William Price. He is my uncle by marriage. I
found him at ipy father’s house, when I returned bqme.
,.Ques. Did Capt. Price take you to point out the man to him?
Ans. No; nor did he inqnire of witness who be was; nor did he, yvitneaa, '
know the name of the man, nor where be was from, nor inquire who be was. j
He does not now recollect any of the jury.
Ques. Do you live in one of Dr. Case’s houses; if so, how long have you?
Ans. He does; and has about 3 years..
Q,ues. . How old was you at the time? .
Ans. About twenty I think; and I am now inmy thirtieth year?
Ques. What time of day was it?
Ans. In the evening; the candles were lighted.
’ Ques. Did you see the thing, whatever it was, whichyou say Capt. North*
am banded the man?
Ans. He saw somethingbut can’t tell what it was; it looked like a piece
•f brown paper rolled,up, to him; it was done very quickly, andthey passed on.
Ques. Have youtold Dr. Case or Capt. Price that it looked to you like
money, or you thought it was money?
Ans. No; He could not tell what it was. I did not tell Dr. Case of It
iat that time. I told him the other night, I think night before last. Ho,
Dr. Case, then asked me if f had not said so and so, and I told him I had.
1 don’t recollect that there were any other persons in the lobby^
Ques. Were they pleading to the court, or thejury? •
Ans. I do not know.
Ques. Did you see the man’s face?
Ans. I did not until he was going into the jury-box.
Ques. What part ofthe court room did yougo into?
Ans. I went into the gallery.
Question by George Turner. Do you recollect any thing of the man’s
person or appearance, by which you would know him again ifyou saw him?
Ans. I cannot tell, 1 don’t think I should know him again.
Ques. After you saw the man go on to thejury, did you take any further
notice of him?
Ans. No; 1just see that he went on; that was all the notice I took, and
then 1 came out.
Ques. Are you a mason?
Ans. God forbid that I should be; although I have no antipathy against
any mason, or any men at all. Edward Murphy.
Capt. tR T. Northam being sworn, and the foregoing deposition of Edward
Murphy being read to him, he deposes,
That he has not the slightest recollection of any such circumstance as tbit
witness states. He presumes that it cannot be necessary for him to say that
fhe never in his life in any way was guilty of tampering with any judge er
juror, on any occasion. That it is wtdl known to all concerned in the maaooit
trials that he took very little part in them; took noactive part in them. He
never served on any committee for the purpose of seeing to them, having
always business of his own; and never attended any of the trials otherwise
than as hemay have gone into the court house occasionally, but not irequeatly>
and stood perhaps a quarter or half of an bou* at r time.
S. T. Nortsahl
f4
^
D
ig
itize
db
yV jO O Q lC
15
Capi. TVUlxam Prics being sworn oars in answer to
Quest. Do you recollect haring been told‘ by Edward Murphy, at
bis father’s house, any thing about Capt. Northam and Dr. Cotton meeting
a juror during one of the masonic trials, anti Capt. N’s. putting something
ioto the bands of that juror ? Please state particularly all you recollect
about it
Ans. That is very easily done, for I don’t recollect anything about it.
W illiam P rice.
Stephen T
*. Northern, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age,
on solemn oatb, doth declare and say in answer to tbe following interroga­
tories.
Quest. Are you or have you been a freemason ; if so, bow maay degrees
in masonry have you taken, by wbat lodges or chapers were you admitted, and
at what time?
Ans. I am a freemason, and about forty-two years ago I took the three
first degrees in Orange Lodge, in Charleston, South Carolina.
In answer to further question. He says that be has read over attentively
tbe forms of oaths for tbe degrees he took, as contained in annexed paper
marked A, and declares them to he in substance the same as those adminis­
tered to him ; the minute or particular phraseology he does not recollect;
but the sense, the substance and principles of them he docs perfectly,
and they are the same as those he has read in said paper. He has
attentively read over the foregoing annexed deposition of N. G. "Boss, and
tbe interrogatories therein answered, and he considers the facts, statements
and explanations therein given to be true and correct; and should he he called
upon to answer the same questions, his answers would be the same in effect
to all of them upon which he was informed. Upon recollection, his answer
to tbe 36th standing interroatory, would be that tbe sign is always given at
entering and leaving a lodge if left before closed, .and it is tbe sign of tbe
order; that is, if the lodge be an entered apprentice’s lodge, the sign oa
entering must be the sign designating an entered apprentice, who otherwise
cannot enter, and so of th4 rest. He has no knowledge whether tbe sign has
toy particular reference to any part of the obligation, or any other reference
or allusion whatever.
Question by George Turner. By tbe substance and principle of your
masonic obligations and oaths, do you include as well the penalties, as the
promises, or bow is it?
Ans. By my masonic obligations I mean those express and solemn prom­
ises, which I made and entered into at tbe time I was initiated into each
degree. I know of nothing else as making part of any obligation taken by
me. What is now read to me and called tbe penal part of tbe entered
apprentice’s obligation, I have.no recollection of having been administered to
me, but if it had been I should not consider it as making and part ofIhe obR^
gallon*
Question by George Turner. Did you or did you not swear to submit to
some penalty, as well as promise to perform your engagements, at the time
you took each of the oaths of the degrees you have taken in masonry?
Ans. I never took any such oatb. I never promised or intended to submit
myself to the jurisdiction of any lodge, to inflict upon me any of the penalties
specified in either of tbe forms of obligation before mentioned, or any thing in
the remotest degree like them. S. T. 'N ortham'.
Benjamin W. Case, sworn, says. 1 reside m tbe town ofNewport, R. I:
an^ ata a physician by profession. I am a freemason. I took the elerea
Digitized by Google
76
' , J *
first degrees in masonry in regular order, and then I took the other degrees,
up to the degree of secret master inclusive. The first degree which 1 took,
was taken in St. John’s lodge, in Newport, R. I. in the year 1796. 1 took
the two next degrees in South Kingstown, R. I. in the year 1798 or 1799 1
think. I took the four degrees in the chapter in Newport, R. I. between the
year 1814 and 1816 to the best of my recollection. Soon after this I took tha
four degrees in the encampment in said Newport. And after this I took the
degrees in masonry up to the degree of secret master in said Newport;
and I think this was about the years 1816 or 1817.
An oath or obligation was administered to me on taking each of these de­
grees. There was no caution addressed to me by the presiding officer ortha
lodge or chapter previous to taking each of these oaths or obligations; nor was
there any qualification of said oaths and obligations at the time ofadminister­
ing them. It was not the practice to address any caution or to qualify the
oaths or obligations until after this time, viz. 1796. The'oatbs, forms of in­
itiation, and manner of working in lodges were similar to those laid down m
a book called Jachin and Koaz, until about the time of the publication of
Webb’s Monitor in 1802. I knew but little about the forms of initiation and
manner of working in lodges between 1796 and 1802; nor but little from that
time until about 1814, as I did not visit the lodges very frequently. At the
time of my initiation it was the practice in St. John’s lodge Newport, to en­
deavor to frighten or alarm the candidate during his initiation, while be had
the cable tow about bis neck and while he was blindfolded, by making noises,
shuffling on the floor, throwing sticks down and directing the cardid&te to
step high. I was so disgusted with this mode of initiation that I did not con­
sent to take the fellow craft and master mason’s degree until the year 1798
or 1799. In taking the degree of master mason 1became still further dis-
§
usted; in this degree about the time I was to personate or represent tbe
eath of Hiram Abiff, tbe widow’s son; there was a brother of the lodge,
by the name of Elisha R. Gardner, who whispered in my ear, while I was
blindfolded, directing me or telling me not to let them get me down; and
when Jubelum struck me to get me down, I sprang from bis grasp and from
the .grasp of bis assistants and I got them down. I continued this frolic as
long as they attempted to get me down, but when they told me to lie down,
J then laid down. In this frolic they tore my clothes pretty badly and 1 was
disgusted with it. These were the reasons why I did not more frequently
visit the lodges at that time. There was a further reason; about 1801 or S
L
I obtained a book called Abbe Barruel upon tbe Illuminati of France, anu
Robertson’s proofs of the conspiracy in France; and after reading those
works io conversation with the masons at Newport, I told them, that 1 con­
sidered illuminatisra to be masonry; but they denied it, pr would not acknowl­
edge it; and I from that time or near that time, for eight years I refused to
visit the lodges, except on funeral occasions.
About the year 1810 or 18J1, Col. John C. Ludlow of New-York city,
who was high priest of the chapter ofthe State of New-York, (I believe the
gran d chapter) came to Newport io and purchased stock in my coal mine;
and while there he and I attended a funeral of a ma^qpic brother, he found
that I had not taken but three degrees at that time, and he was very anx­
ious that I should take tbe higher degrees; and soon after I went to New-
York and. at his solicitation attended the grand lodge there. At the time said
Col. Ludlow was at Newport he attended an installation of a chapter, I
think, and tbe ceremonies were performed in the meeting house. Webb’*
masonic Monitor was read 09 that occasion; and said Ludlow Iqft the meet­
ing house, and afterwards stated to me that he was so disgusted that hm
would not stay to hear Wehb^s Monitor read, and at the same time stated tm
>
Digitized by Google
77
me that if he had published such &hook as Webb** Monitor in^Tew-York,
disclosing such masonic secrets as had not before been made public, he should
bare been put to death inconsequence of it. On my visit to New-York said
Ludlow and John G. Bogart of New-York city pressed me very hard to take
the higher degrees, and they stated to me that any man who should become
a master ofa lodge in New-York, would be certain to make his fortune; and
they stated a case ef a man whose name was Barnum I think, who was a*
few years before poor, but having become a master of a lodge he was able in'
a few years to purchase a house in Brtadway in New-York city, and bad at
that time given something like thirty thousand dollars for the same. They
mentioned a number of similar instances, and said that they did not know of
a master of a lodge who had not made his fortune. In consequence of these
entreaties and other inducements I two or three years after this took the
higher degrees. After these conversations with said Ludlow and Bogart I
visited the lodges again at Newport, and I then found material alterations in
the ceremonies and oaths in the lodges; changes were introduced, which were
not in use at the time of my initiation.
Further examination of f)oct. Case continued on Friday the 30th inst. in-
Newport.
Tn answer to the followirfginterrogatories marked D, he says,—
To the 7th and 8th interrogatory he says, when he took the oaths he was*
placed in such a situation and they were administered in such a manner, (be~
ing administered word by word by the master and so repeated by him after
the master) that it was not possible for him'or ary one else, he thinks, fully
to comperhend them. To the last part ofthe 8th question,*he replies that he
made no inquiry about it, he took it for granted that it was all proper or neces-
sary; before taking the oaths he did notknowthat it was necessarytotake any.
9th. He replies he did not.
10th. He replies that be did.
11 th. He answers they are fully explained in those books, and he knows
of no Others.
14th. He answers, that when he took the oaths he did not think any*
thing about it. He can’t say that he had any serious reflections upon the
subject until after tbe death ofMorgan, nor indeed until after the publication
of the proceedings of the Le Roy convention about the summer of 1828 or
between that date and 1826. Auer this he took the subject into full and
serious consideration and came to the conclusion that the masonic oaths were
not compatible with bis religious, moral, civil or social obligations and of
course void and not binding.
Question by committee. Had there ever occurred, up to that time, any
occasion on which two different obligations came in conflict?
Ans. To the best of bis recollection no such occasion bad occurred.
22d. To this he answers in the negative.
23d. To this he answers that on ordinary occasions be should have ad-
hered to his civil obligations but if a secret had been communicated to him by
a brother under the five points of fellowship or masonically, especially if his
*
■ life was in danger, he has no doubt he should have kept that Secret, and had
he been called to testify respecting it in a court ofjustice he should have re­
fused, or should have stood silent, and should have thought his life forfeited if
he had not so acted.
Question by committee. As you are now and ever since you reflected upon
the subject have been of a different opinion, and as no occasion previously ev-
er occurred, upon which you had an opportunity of forming any opinion—upon
what ground is if that you now found your beliefthat you should have acted
as you state in your last answer. ^
V
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
■»
Anr I^Uould have *4 (fiat time considered that by acting cootrevy I
ahould violtTCe my masonic obligations and that my life would thereby become
forfeited,
26th. To this he answers, that sometime since the year 1811, he became
informed that an oath was introduced into the fellow craft or master masonv
s
degree, by which the candidate swears that be will support the constitution of
the.grand lodge of the State, and the charter and bylaps of the lodge of
which be shall become a member. There are constant regular communica­
tions between all the grand lodges in the United States, and he believes of
Europe; he has.been so informed uniformly; it is noticed historically and Be
Has heard it mentioned in the grand lodge of this State pf which be has been
a member. Accordingto the present*regulation before a master mason can
be master of a lodge he must take the past master’s degree, and in taking
this latter degree he swears that be will not sit in a lodge the master ofwhicn
has not taken said degree. The past master swears also that he will support
the constitution of the grand royal arch chapter, and this makes the connect­
ing link between the grand royal arch chapter and the lodges of the three first
degrees. The degrees of kn^hthood follow those of the chapters. The con­
stitutions, given in Webb’s last edition, particularly that of the grand royal
arch chapter of U. S. and grand encampment of U. §. and the oaths or obli­
gations in Bernard’s Light on Masonry and Allyu’s Ritual, wOI furnish a
more full and particular answer to the rest of this question.
33d. In answer to this he says that at the time of Morgan’s death and
for a considerable time after, a year or two perhaps, all the masons be con­
versed with said that nothing but justice had been done to him. He further
says that be don’t believe it would have been safe at that time for a lodge-
f
oing mason to have expressed a different opinion. They would observe to
im(witness) ‘‘you know that justice has been done to him.” Something like
two years ago Capt. Geo. Howland at N. Hazard’s in conversation respect­
ing the death of Morgan, told me that he was at sea at the time of the news
of Morgan’s death, on his return he visited the royal arch chapter in Provi­
dence, and there inquired into the truth ofthe report; theyinformed him that it
was true, and that Morgan had comejustly by his death; and said Howland
further told witness that that chapter on that night raised money to aid the
western sufferers as they were called, that is for the persons then imprisoned
on account of the Morgan business. He does not recollect the name of any
one in particular whom he heard express the above sentiment; the opinion was
uniform and common. He never heard any of the masons, who belonged to bis
lodge express that opinion but the contrary. He had no masonic connection
with the masons referred to nor with their lodges. He and the lodge to which
he belonged had no masonic connection with any other lodge in the State.
Quest, by committee. Were there not at that time a number of lawsuits
existing between you and your lodge and the other lodge and masons (n this
town, which lawsuits hadbeen peuding a number of years, and had been pros­
ecuted with great heat. ~
Ans. Yes.
• Qauqt. How were the conversations you alluded to about Morgan, in­
troduced, by you or them, and in what manner generally; was it generally io-
trodued in the way of banter, and did the reply generally follow your charg­
ingthe murder of Morgan upon the New-York brethren?
Ans. How the conversation was introduced ’tis impossible for him to say at
this late day, nor whether by him or them. He cap*t say that it was gener*
ally introduced by the way ofbanter; sometimes it was, and sometimes not:
sometimes tl#y would call him Morgan, anjl ask him if was not afraid of
being Morganised. He would answer that they hpd better get rid of their
Digitized by k ^ o o Q l e
19
own murder iBrst; sometimes he wodld fcay to them, that he hoped that
killing time was passed; and expressions of a simitar kind. Some­
times, in serioba conversation, When h?9Witness, would push them tight, they
would say, well you know that he come justly by his death. He dries not now
recollect any particular mason who so expressed himself.
36th. To this he answers in the affirmative.
37th. To this he answers that he supposes the original three degrees were
Tor charitable arid convivial purposes. The other degrees he considers to have
been added for political purposes.
38tb. To this he answers that he knows nothing except as before stated.
18th (omitted). To this he answers such discussions are excluded from the
lodge while open; but after a lodgeis closed the members converse upon those
subjects in the lodge room &9 freely as upon anything else.
19th. This he answers in the negative.
Questions by request ofGeorge Turner. Do masons consider the penalties
as any part of their oaths, or not?
Ans. They do; a very essential part.
Quest. Do they ever enter or leave a' lodge without a regular masonic
sign; does it allude to the penalty or not?
Ans. They -are always bound to give the jign of the degree they are
working under, hnd it alludes to the penalty attached to that degree.
Que&t. Do masons ever administer their obligations by way of affirmation?
Ans. I never knew it to be done, aod I never knew it to be asked for
orrefused. ,
Quest. Is or is not tbe actual punishment of death held Out to masOhs, by
those who are masons, to be the consequence of the violation of their masonic
obligations, whether in of out of a lodge?
Ans. It is in the strongest terms possible that humau inventioncan invent,
in my opinion.
Quest. Do masons or lodges consider their by-laws, when they speak of
punishment or expulsion, as alluding to a breach of the masonic oaths, or to
tome supposed misconduct among the brethren?
Ans. They do not refer to a breach of their masonic oaths; but merely to
misconduct as individuals.
Quest. It has been said that politics were never admitted or discussed in a
lodge? Do masons consider themselves in a lodge all tbe time they are to­
gether in their lodge-building, or only such part of the time as they are ma-
sonically at work?
Ans. They do not only when at work.
Quest. Have you ever known politics tbe subject of discussion or conversa­
tion among masons when assembled in their lodge-building, either before their
masonic labors commenced, during any intermission*from Work, or after the
lodge had been masonicaUy closed? ,
Ans. Very frequently.
Quest. Tiow far do masons consider their addresses or charges as binding
on them? •
Ans. Tbe charges,as he considers, are given for the purpose of making the
obligations more impressive; the introductory address given to an entered
apprentice is for the purpose of inducing'hjm to take the obligation; in St.
John's lodge, Newport, no such a introductory address was given in any ex-
- cept the first degree, and that I found introduced when I visited the lodge in
1814, and Tbelicve it was introduced by J. A. Shaw; have visited a number
of lodges in other places, and never knew it used in any other degree. I do
not consider them in any other way binding. ;
Quest. Have youever known a political or other preference inculcated
masons by their masonic obligations—in what degree and in what words?
Digitized by Google
on
80
Ans. Idthe inaster’s degree are these words “ I furthermore promise and
swear that I will give a brother master mason a preference in his trade or
calling.” This I well recollect for I have often repeated it. I was taught it
by John A. Shaw and Gen. Stall. I have repeated it at least sixty times,
having initiated over that'number of members, and have besides repeated
all the masonic oaths of the three first degrees twice a year, as required by
the by-laws, all the members standing, and repeating after the master; I
have been a master of a lodge since 1817 or 1818. The last time I so re­
peated it was last month,on the anniversary of St. John the evangelist.
Ques. How are the ceremonies in the royal arch and knight templar’s
degrees explained to the candidate, and what are these ceremonies?
Ans. They are correctly explained in Allyn’s and Bernard’s books, together
with all the secrets appertaining to those degrees.
Quest. Do or do not the lodges devote some portion of their disposable
funds to purposes of conviviality and refreshment, as regularly as they do to
charity; state the facts, and your means of knowing.
Ans. I think more regularly and to much greater amount the Treasurer’s
books and the lodge books will explain.
Ques. What consequences do you know to result fromthe masonic institu­
tion, to balance its charity, Qc.
Ans. I know that lodge meetings lead to dissipation, and I believe that the
strongest adherents to masonry are intemperate men. He refers to annexed
certified copies of proceedings from lodge books.
Ques. How far, and for what purposes, do you consider the antimasons as
a political party.
Ans. 1 consider the whole purpose of it to be to assert the supremacy of
the laws.
Ques. Are you assured of the consequences of refusing to answer legal
questions in a court of law?
Ques. Would you, or woufd you not, have considered the penalty of a
breach of your masonic obligation, as more to be dreaded, than any penalty
that could have been indicted for refusing to take a civil oath?
Ans. I am aware of the penalty for refusing to answer legal questions in a
court of lavr; it is fine and imprisonment, which I consider not to be com­
pared to tbe loss of life, which I should have considered tbe consequence of
breaking my masonic obligations.
Ques. Does a mason by takingthe degrees in chapters, encampments and
councils, cease to be a mason of a subordinate lodge, or lose his standing on
that account?
Ans. He does not.
Ques. Is not every member of all the chapters, encampments, or other
masonic bodies in this country, attached to or connected with some subordi­
nate lodge, and does not that connexion and dependence formone ofthe means
of communication between all the masonic bodies in this country; and cannot
any mason of any state or country, and of any degree in masonry, enter into
any lodge or other masonic body in this country or state, if not opened on a
degree above that to which he has arrived in the “sublime science,” and does,
or does not that circumstance afford another means of communication and con­
cert between masons in all states and countries?
Ans. To the whole of this question I answer in the affirmative.
Ques. Are the ceremonies and oaths practised at initiation in the master
mason’s degree, correctly given in the books ofAllyn and Bernard ?
Ans. I answer in the affirmative.
Ques. When a lodge is opened on the master mason’s degree, are, or art
not tbe members reminde4 of the penalties of all the the three iirat degrees?
Digitized by
#
Aftcl are?or are notj the penalties annexed to the oaths,taught to'be the mos$
binding parts thereof, and in the lectures of the second degree^'are, or are
Bot those penalties always alluded 15? *
Ans. At the opening and closing of a lodge the sign of the penalty is always
given by the master and: repeated by the members. The remainder of the
question I answer in the affirmative. %
Ques. Did George Howland at any lime loan you a book in cypher as
stated in his deposition; and has he ever required it of you?
Ans. Yes, he lent me such a book and has not said any thing to me about
it since. I loaned the same book to B. Hazard, with two or three sheets of
translation of the cypher. The book was a copy of the same book in cyphef
and character, that was before the antimasonic state convention, held in
Boston, in May, 1831, which book I saw before it was carried to Boston.
Ques. Did or did not the grand lodge of this state after the improvements
jroif have alluded to asfmade in 1814, appoint or authorize some person to go
.about lecturing to masonic lodges, for the purpose of producing uniformity in
masonic'work?
Ans. I don’t know that it was by the grand lodge of this state, but it ha$
Been do n e generally by grand lodges throughout the country. Jeremiah L.
Cross I understand is the grand lecturer appointed by the grand lodge Of
New York, to secure uniformity throughout.
Ques. Do masonic lodges in this country admit to the privileges and mys­
teries of their order, any but sound able-bodied men; or do they select such aa
are really objects fpr the exercise of charity or benevolence*
Ans. They do not.
Interrogatory by request of Nicholas G. Boss. Who was the master and
his son-in-law who you was informed gave money as your informant thought to
a juror? who was your informant ?
Ans. S. T. Northam and Dr. Cotton. Edward Murphy was my. inform­
ant, who now works for Geo. Engs.
Int. by committee. Have you ever known any combination formed among
masons, or resolution'taken to act in concert in support of any individual ma­
sonic candidate for office in preference to another candidate not a mason?
Ans. I have not. .
Int. Have you ever known politics introduced into conversation in any lodge
room or building in any other way than as a subject of ordinary conversation?
Ans. At the time of elections I have known them talk about the different
candidates, I don’t know that it was different from ordinary conversation.
Benjamin W aite C ase.
Judge Thomas Cory of Portsmouth mentioned to me that at the time he sat
a s Judge on the masonic trials he told his colleagues on the bench, that after
repeatedly hearing masons swear in those trials he never wished to hear an­
other swear, as they would not swear to the truth; the judge said he mentidn-
ecf this fact at one, time to judge Denham who said John Tillinghast was about
‘ to be sworn, he would swear to the truth; Judge Cory said we will hear hinft.
Jojm Tillinghast was tyler of the lodge on the night the erand lodge caused
^the lock to be taken off and door opened’by violence, and Tillinghast was the
oman to pold the key at that time; Tillinghast was asked if the lock was on
th£ door, he answered he did not know, which answer only served to confirfn
*tbe Judge in his opinion. ^ ’ L\ .
There were many false masonic witnesses brought against me in those tri­
a ls. John Carlile, grand master of the grand lodge, swore that he had noth­
ing to do with thetlibel he'published agaiffst me; alter whiih I proved on the
tbe printer that he (.Carlile) pamedjhe manuscript libel to the prfo-
tbY hiniselV ind superintended the publication. •■’ * * * * * •■
81
11 '
Digitized by Google
w
William.C. larker of Providence swore in one of those tariffs bohadtat
a mason mm years, and that lie bad superintended fifty elections oflodges,
which cannot bo a fact unless he possess the power of ubiquity a* theelec­
tion of lodges are on the 27tb December annually.
At another of those masonic trials the foreman of the jury during the trill
resided with a zealous mason in this town, and it was reported at theline
that theTnaster of the masons opposed to me, the night previous to thejury’s
receiving the papers, was with the foreman of the jury at a late hour; after
the jury received the papers they all agreed upon a verdict in my favor ina
short time, except that foreman who stood out until the papers were tikes
from them.
I was told by a man in this town that during the pendency ofone ofthe
masonic suits in this town, as he reached the head of the stairs in the court
house, he saw the master ofthe masons in this town, opposed to me, together
with his son in law.walking quickly towards ajuror and the juror slept quicklj
forward to meet them; passing between them they spoke to him and the m
is­
ter before mentioned handed the juror something that bad the appearance of
money. He said it was all done very quick.
John Carr of Jamestown was ajuror on one of the masonic trials inthistova
He told me that during the trial Benjamin B. Mumford, a mason, 1 believeit
that time acting as senior warden of the lodge denomincted the spuriouslodgt
in this town; caused a letter to be delivered to him in which be strictlyen
­
joined on said Carr to read the letter, and immediately commit it tothe
flames which he did accordingly by which he was induced to sign what be th
en
considered a wrong verdict which he had ever regretted. 1 have the im
pressiot
that Mr. Robinson Carr,of this town or one of his brothers, informed me tint
John Carr made a similar statement to him.
Mr. Robert D. Lawton mentioned to me in his store in Tanner street about
{woyears since that a mason told him Morgan’s murder was the only thing
that saved my life; that I should have been murdered if Morgan had not
Some four or five years past in a dark night at about one or two o’clock
there was a knockiog at my door. On going to the window ! enquired the
cause. The person said I was wanted immediately down in the neck at Sin*
uel F. Gardner’s, on account of sickness. 1 told the person I never attended
in his family. I asked who he was and who sent him for me. He thenno
off; and as it was a lonely place,and I considered there bad been attempts to
decoy me, I did not go, and I afterwards found that there was no personsir);
at Mr. Gardner’s house at that time.
About two years ago last March or April, Mr. George Wheaton Albs
told me that he came in the stage from Fall River, in company with Uivid
M, Coggeshail, of this town, and in conversation with him about masonry$
ttd
masons, Coggeshail speaking of me said that the masons of this town ladi
rod in soak for me that would give me my quietus.
John C. Clarke, of this town, told me some five or six years ago, tbit i»
conversation with James Coggeshail, of New York, he, Coggeshail, saidif!
should go to New York, I should be assassinated by masons.
Some three or four years past, a man that belongs in this town wasioN
ew
York. He told me that Mr. McQucan, the great iron founder asked kin
what sort of a man I was; he says be spoke well of roe. Mr. McQueia
then said to biro, do tell that man not to travel, as bis life will be in danger.
I had long known that my name was set up in large capital*, in every ledge
m {he city.
About two or three years ago, Capt. William Price, of this town, c*fieU
me with wh&t he considered ao important secret, in which I was deeply iaitr*
eated, That a Mii» Porter, in this town, with great anxiety thef \ tbeuld
Digitized by G o o g l e
€$
know ft, bad tommVnicated to h!s daughter, ts be comtnunicatsd to me imlhe*
diately, which secret Miss Porter bad obtained of a Mr. Ira Stillman, who
married a niece or sister of Capt. Stephen Manchester’s wife, ofProvidence.
The secret was that Capt. Manchester was a mason, and ran a line packet
fromProvidence to New York; that he was swore in a chapter or lodge in N.
York, that if I should take passage on board his packet, and he should bare
an opportunity to get me overboard in the night time, or otherwise take my
life, and he should fail to do so, he would forfeit his own.
Daniel Howland, Esq. of Jamestown, mentioned to me the case of J. B.
Wood, before the circuit court, respecting some lost money, in which case be
was a juror; that the whole panne! were for bringing in a verdict against
Wood, except one, who was a mason from Bristol, who kspt the jury out and
prevented a verdict, and the papers were taken from the jury by the court.—
Esquire Howland told me he had ascertained J. B. Wood was a mason.
I was informed by Capt. Henry Tew, Treasurer of St. John’s lodge,
twelve or fourteen years past, that William G. Burrows, a mason, came to
him, with a proposition for him, Tew, to deposit the books, papers, bank
script, &tc. in a place be would name, he, Tew, should find in that plaee fire
hundred dollars for his service. Tew said he told Burrows that if he ever
mentioned such a thing to him again, he would break every bone in his skin.
About the first of March last, I was in Petersburg, Hensellaer county<
•tate of New York, and was there informed by Mr. Joshua Lewis, who bad
recently been Secretary of a lodge in that neighborhood, that some time pro*
vious, after Lieut. Gor Throop’s election, he gave a speech, in which he
denominated the antimasonic excitement “ the blessed spirit” which he wished
might prevail; in consequence of which the grand lodge of the state of New
York, issued their mandate to all the lodges under their jurisdiction to put
down Throop at all events; which mandate was expressed in such terms that
Lewis considered it amounted to treason, as he expressed it to me. One
being sent to him ns Secretary of the lodge, and he being conscious it would
be wrong for himto be concerned in executing it, he resigned his place as Sec­
retary. and discontinued visiting the lodge from that time.
Gov. Throop in his next communication to the public altered bis tone, and
declared the regulation of the antimasonic excitement “ belonged to social
intercourse,1
9by which he appeased the masons and obtained their subsequent
support.
Sometime in February, eighteen huudred fourteen, in conversation with
John A. Shaw, after he was appointed master of the lodge be requested me
to attend the lodge. I told him if he would cause notice to be sent to me, I
would attend at the next regular lodge night; he did send me notice and I at­
tended accordingly, which I had not done for a great while before, I presume*
eight or ten years, I found the mode of work materially improved and added to.
After the candidate was prepared by tbe junior warden, as laid down hj
Barnard and Allyn, he was brought to the door and the alarm made by three
distinct knocks, the senior warden was directed by tbe worshipful master to
receive tbe candidate.
On opening tbe door he asks “ Who comes there, who comes there, who
comes there?” The answer was by tbe junior warden who had the candidate
by the band “A poor blind candidate who wishes to have and receive a part
of the rights, lights, and benefits, ef this right worshipful lodge erected'to
God and dedicated to holy St. John, at all true and lawful brothers have done
that have gone before him.
*fbe Senior warden asks if it it ef hisown free will and aecord that be makes
this requests.
The jtfnior wsfden, 0r eohlfctifor, answers. “It is.**
D igged by C j O O ^ I c
The saniolr.warden asks, “ Is/ie duly ^gdUuJy prepared.” * »
*Ans. “ lie is/’ . . . **-
The senior warden asks, “ Is he free horn, of Jawful a$>e, withoutdefame,
or defect.” Ans. “ He is.” ■ ; #
’ .Then the senior warden says “ Let him wait a time with patience, until 1
inform the worshipful master in the east, for further instructsn.”
He then informs the worshipful master in the east, who asks the senior
warden the same questions that the senior warden had asked of the junior
warden at the door and receives the same answers.
The worshipful master then directs the senior warden to let him enter, and
in the name of the Lord to take heed on what he enters, that he enter upon
the sharp point of ap implement presented to his naked^ lett breast, and tint
he inform him as this is an instrument of torture to his flesh, may it ever he
to his conscience if he should ever reveal any of the secrets of this degree;
let him be taken to the holy altar and there receive the benefit of the lodge’s
prayer; after receiving the prayer, the .worshipful master asks the candidate
in whom he trusts; his conductor directs him to say in God.
The worshipful. master then says “Your trust being in God, arise fclloji
your leader, fear not what man can do to you.” He is then taken,three
times round the lodge; undergoes an examination by the different officers; is
finally brought to the altar with his left knee bent and bare, his right foot
forming a square, when the worshipful master thus addr^ses him, calling
‘him by name, “ You are now about to enter into a very serious and solemnobli­
gation, more serious and solemn than you are aware of; there is nothing init
contrary to religion, iqpralitv, or the laws of your country, but is founded in
faith, hope, and charity, which ifrightly pursued, is capable of carrying nafl
to the highest degree of perfection; if any doubts or disgusts have arisen ia
your mind from what you have already gone through, you are now at liberty
to decline yotfr inflation; but if you still persist in the motives which I pre­
sume brought you here, you please to give me your right hand.”
The worshipful master then takes his right hand and places it on the holy
bible, square and compass; he then asks for his left hand and places it under
.the holy bible. square and compass, and then says to him your right hand be­
ing extended on the holy bible, square and compass, your left hand supporting
the same, you will enter into a very serious and solemn obligation, denvfliirr
ated the entered apprentice obligation, he then directs the candidate to repeat
his own name. The worshipful master.repeats his own name.
; Then the worshipful master says of my own free will and accord. The
candidate says after him, of my own free will and accord. The w
orshipful
paster says in the presence of Almighty God; the candidate repeat^ afterb
in
*
in thd presence of Almighty God. The worshipful master saya, and thism
ost
worshipful lodge; the candidate says after him and this most worshipful lodge-
The worshipful master says erected to God and dedicated to holy §t. Jphn;
the candidate says after him, erected to God and dedicated to holy'Sf. Jthfc
The worshipful master says do hereby and hereonf the candidate §ays afhr
"him, do hereby and hereon. The worshipful master says, most sincerelypfcifl-
ise and swear; the candidate repeats after the worshipful master, most,in­
sincerely promise and s\vear. And in this manner, woYtl by word thrbugjthf
Srholesoatli;^andAthe re/fiainuor of the oath will be founfl in Bernardttoii
And when the^ candijlatc^ repeats r
pfcfmlty, the senior Warden of$ca*
other officer, draws an implement across his throat; after the oath is 90UipIc$,
^the candidate is# a^ked what he.most waptpdJ(his*conducter tells Igimt^nj
The worshipful masturcaJ^ufM^ the Jo^orae forwaj^ajfij^i^t
•
Digitized by G o o g l e
iobringing the- new made brother from darkness to m&sqnic light, after sur­
rounding the altar the worshipful master directs them all to stretch forth their
hands, he thm raising his right hand and letting it fall as he says, and God
said, and God said, and God said let there be light and there was light, the
worshipful master and brethren striking their bands together and stamping
their right foot at which instaut the bandage is snatched from candidate’s
eyes and a drawn sword presented to his naked breast.
The ceremony then goes on as described by Allyn and Bernard until fha
worshipful master has got through giving the tokens, words, grips and signs,
when be gives the grand sign of an entered apprentice, drawing his han^
across his throat, he is asked if it has an allusion; the candidate answers, it
has, under the direction of his conductor. The worshipful master asks, to
what; be answers, to the penalty of my obligafion. The worshipful master
asks if be has that penalty; he answers, he has. The worshipful master then
tells him to give it to him. He then repeats (he penalty, which is, that be
will have bis throat cut across, bis tongue plucked out by the roots, his body
buried in the rough sands of the sea, a cable tow from shore, where the tide
ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours, before he would reveal the secret*
appertaining to this degree. He is then ordered by the worshipful master to
the junior warden, who asks him if he is a mason, and to prove himself such
^showing him the signs, grips, tokens and words; and then be is asked by
the junior warden to give him the grand sign of an entered apprentice, which
be does in the same manner,and words as he gave it to the worshipful master:
he is then taken to the senior warden, undergoes the same examinatipn, and
gives the grand hailing sign in the same manuer as he gave it to the worship­
ful master and junior warden. The charge is then given as in Webb’s Mon­
itor and Bradley’s beauties of masonry. ^
The fellow craft’s degree is substantially the same as in Allyn and Ber­
nard, except that John A. Shaw did not teach in St. John’s lodge in Newport
that any address should be given to the candidate previous to his receiving the
obligation, and no such address has been given in said lodge. . . ,
* In the master’s degree the candidate, when he is brought to the door by hi*
conductor, the conductor says to the senior warden, the candidate now apr
pears before you with his arms, legs and body bare, his loins girt about, in
testimony whereof he renounces his own will and becomes submissive to the
worshipful master and brethren, then the usual ceremonies follow as in Ber­
nard and Allyn, and the oath given as laid down, by Allyn and Bernard with
the Following additions, in addition to what I have already attested to: “ I
Fojftbermore promise and swear, that I will not play at cards, dice or any oth-
ejr unlawful game of hazards whereby I may reap an uuduq advantage over .a
.beptber;” and the following words are used at the commencement of every
paragraph of every oath: I most sincerely promise and swear.” f ..
f.After the candidate has ^one through the first part of the ceremonies lie is
taken out into the preparation room and clothed, during which lime the lodgp*
’
darkened and a coffin introduced, and tbrpe persons placed by it wrapped jp
^ “ ’ ■ ’ ................................... IjiC C o ffit^
&e coffin,
------.,---- ~~ ..........— ------------------------ He is then
ubela and his life demanded, as laid down by Bernard and Allyn*
Ja? completes the representation pf the death ot Hiram Abiff, after which
ilie three ruffians that were caught in the cliffs of the rock, to wit, Jubela, Jp^
belo and Jubelum, are brought before the master, who enquires of them what
they have io say for themaqlves: they saj they are guilty. The master j^ien
%recis theiffto fee takeiwind executed ag^e^sble to their several exclamation?
the ciiffof tfie rock; to wit,*Jqbqla fH^bave his throat cut, Stc. Ju.
Digitized by Google
m
belo to have his breast torn open and bis heart taken obt, &c. Jubelamtofesvc
his bodj severed in two. See., after which the master addresses the candidate,
and tells him he now represents not only one of the greatest men, but the
greatest mason we hare any account of, to wit: our grand master Hiram,
whose tragical death is thus related; which is essentially correct in Bernard
and Ailyn; be is then impressed in the strongest possible ^manner by the m
at*
ter that he must imitate Hiram and lose his life rather than reveal any oftha
secrets of masonry.
As a further illustration I refer to the charge in Webb’s monitor, intbl
toaster mason's degree. Bexjami.
t W a it s C ass.
[ReJerred to in Benjamin W. Cone’s Deposition.')
Regular lodge, Monday evening, November 16, 5812. R. W. Benjamin
B. Mumford, master, pro tem, John A. Shaw, S. W. pro tem, Isaac Stall, J.
W. pro tem, Stephen Deblois, Treasur-r, pro tem, William G. Bumagin,
Secty. John Browo, S. D. pro tem, William C. Green, J. D. pro tem. Y
ii*
itors: Joseph Chadwick, Jeremiah Lawton, Henry Anthony, Augustus N
ew
*
man, John S. Langley, James Mumford, Henry Tew, jun. — Carver,—
Fox,'-----Presby, Thoma3 Moores, Samuel Richardson, William M. Rob­
bins, William Potter, Saunders Rogers, John M. Breeze, Thomas R. Rhodes,
Elisha Billington, Samuel Henshaw, John Tilley, and William Douglas.
Extractfrom the minutes.—u Entered apprentice’s lodge opened indm
form, a ballot was taken for Mr. Robert H. Nichols: no negative appearing,
he was initiated into the first degree of masonry. Voted, that brother Re­
ward Easton, Stephen Deblois and John A. Shaw, be and they are hereby
appointed a committee to inquire into the ill conduct of the blacks who sera-
py the cellar, and report the same at the next lodge meeting; and that tbs
said committee wait upon the said blacks and demand of them the reason of
such infamous and injurious conduct.”
Special Lodge, Monday evening, 31 May, 5814. R. W. John A. Sbiw,
master, H. Shaw, S. W. pro. tem., R. Merrill, J. W. pro. tem., J. W. Ste­
vens, sec’y., H. Moore, treas., Win. Tew, S. D. pro. tem., E. Chase, J.
D. pro. tem., Saunders Bruse, Peleg Fish, Daniel W. Barker, Samuel J.
Potter, Henry Y. Cranston, James Barker, Joseph J. Tripp, David Btth
man, jun., Robert Williams, J. C. Peckham, Caleb Tripp, John Tilley,
Ebenezer White, James Stevens, Jeremiah Bliss, William Stevens, Jacw
Minzey, William Rider, —. Ranson, William G. Burroughs.
Extract from the minutes.—“Entered apprentice’s lodge closed and Mil'
ter’s lodge opened. Voted and resolved, That no spirituous liquors be dmb
in this lodge after the 24th day ofnext month excepting at quarterly comas-
nications or af anniversaries; (this motion was made by brother Henry Y
.
Cranston, and supported by him with arguments too powerful to be resisted,)
which caused an universal gloom and the lodge closed in form.”
Regular Lodge, Monday Evening, Nov. I7tb, 5817. Present—R.W.
Benjamin W. Case, Master; Augustus Newman, S. W.; Thomas PrattgJ.
W.; John Handy, Secretary; William Douglass, Treasurer; Caleb IVtto*
S. D.; Isaac Shearman, J. D.; John Tillinghast. Tyler; James Perry, ft
W. P. M.; Henry Y. Cranston; Eli Mirrill; William Simons; R o b ert Law-
ton, Jun.; Timothy R. Peckham. Voted, That a Committee be appointed
to report if expedient to remove the family out of the kitchen; the report toW
made the next regular lodge night. Brothers James Perry, Douglas! sad
Newman, that Committee.
Robert R. Carr, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age* m
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interrogated**
Qnes. Did youbrer bear the latie Mr. Jobs Case ofJamestown, say that
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
hsbsdat any time reaeired a. letter fromthe lata B. B. Mumford, whack bw
wasrequested to bum as soon at be bad read it, when on a jury in one of the
muonic cases so called, did you ever tell anybody that you did, and in coasO
'-
quence ofwhich letter he gave a different verdict in that case, from what he
otherwise should? Were you welt acquainted with said John Carr; has there
been any others of that name in that town?
Ans, I was well aeqainted with said John Carr; think he was on the jury
inone of those cases. 1 know ofbut one of that name in Jamestown for the
last twenty years, except a young man now living there, about 24 years of
age. I never heard John Carr say any thing of the kind as expressed in
tbs question, and have hever told anybody that I did. R obert R . C arr.
Samuel Carr, being1sworn, in answer to the above qnestion put to R. R*
Carr, says; I have no recollection of said Carr’s ever being a juror on one of
those cases, nor did I ever bear him aay any thingabout receiving any such
letter. S amuel Carr.
•
B. Cl Carr, being sworn, in answer to the same question as above, saya
he never heard said John Carr aay any thing of the kind mentioned in saul
question. B enjamin U . C arr. -
Francis Carr, being affirmed, in answer to the same question as [above,
says he never heard said John Carr say anytbiog of the kind mentioned in
{aidquestion. F rancis C arr.
Isaac .C. Peckham, being sworn, testifies that be knows of no rule or
principle ofmasonry that requires a master mason to be initiated intothe do*
gree of past master before he can be installed as a master of a lodge.
Quest. Have you known any instance in which a master mason has been
soinitiated into the degree of past master before be was installed as master
of a lodge. Have you known any instance to the contrary?
Ans. I think I recollect one instance in which J. L. Boss was appointed
master of the lodge, that the lodge then closed and opened a pass master’s
lodge, and gave Mr. Boss the past master’s degree. But I considered
nothing more than comphmentory. I have known of instances of the contra­
ry nature particularly the cases of Capt. Northsm and Judge Sanford; l waa
present at the installation of Judge Sanford.
Question by Dr. Case.
Aon. I have taken 8 or 10 degrees in masonry. a
I saac C. P ecwham.
George Snowies, being sworn, testifies that he knows of no rule or prae«
lice in masonry that requires a master mason to be initiated into the degref
ofpast master before be can be installed as master of a lodge. He has takn
tq hut three degrees in masonry. G eorge Riroyvj.ES.
Copt* Simon Newton, being sworn, says, in gnwer to *
Quest. Did the late John L. Boss, Esq. who was formerly master pf St.
Jobe’s lodge ever meet or see Capt. Sylvester Gifford, while on pny jury io
one of the masonic cases, or apy other juror at your house?
Ans. Boss was never in my house to my recollection. Capt. Gifford is a
relation of ours, and whenever here on a visit with his wife or daughter, he
generally pytf up at my house* |Ie did sqon one occasion when be eras
tq^aii up to serve op a jury in one of the masonic cases; but Xdonot recollect
that spy map whatever visited the hopse while Capt.. Gifford wap there, nor
Digitized by Google
89
was there a wo^d said Io hiin'upon the subject of f
any of those c&sds; hVwas
not a man to whom such conversation could be addressed if any one could be
bad enough to wish it. ~
Quest. Are you a mason—how high?
Ans.* I am a master mason—no more. Sigm
on N ewton.
’ Peleg Almy, of Portsmouth, in the county of Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath, doth declare and say, in answer to the following interrogatories.
'■Quest. Are you a mason, or have you ever been.
Ans. No.
Quest'. Did you ever know the hailing sign of masons 9* any masonic signs
ever given in any court to any judge, juror, witness or officer. Did you yer
know any judge, juror, witness or officer being a mason, in any court to obey
any such sign or to give any preference to a mason as a mason?'
Ans. To first part of the question, he never did ; he knew nothing about
-the signs, and if any were given he should not know it. To the second part
he knew nothing about masonry, did not know who was a mason and who.aot,
unless they told him. He never to his knowledge knew of any judge, jufor,
witness or officer who was a mason, to give any preference in the performabce
of his duty to a mason over another who was not a mason.
Quest. Have you^any cause or good reason to believe that any such pre^sr-
£*ce ever was given ? 1 r
Ans. I have had cases ii/court which went different from what I thought
right. There was some mystery in it, whether it was masonry or not, leant
tell. The particular case I refer to was with Ebeqezer Davenport, carried
on for him by Edward Wilcox, who I am informed was a mason. I was
informed that there were several masons on each jury, once When the juej
did not agree, I was informed that they stood 9 to 3, and that the three were
masons. John B. Newton was on that jury, I was frequently in at his shop,
and generally found Wilcox there; after the papers were taken from the jury,
I saw Newton and he told me he was satisfied that the witness (against me)
lied throughout in all he said. I asked him why then he did not give *tin*
ease to me, lie replied because it would be fixing forgery upon the otfier
party. P eleg Ai.mt.
Isaac A . .Dermis, of Middletown, in the county of Newport, oflawful age,
on sojemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interroga­
tories.
Itifc. Have you ever heard Mr. Peleg Almy, of Portsmouth, or Mr. Angus-
tus Peckham, of Newport, declaring publicly that they knew of masons'being
guilty of exercising a corrupt influence in any court of law?
Ans. At the term of the court of common pleas when Bateman MonroW
as
taken off the jury as being a mason, he heard Mr. Almy say that if the insti­
tution was not put down, no man in this country could get justice done him;
that he felt the effects of it. Witness asked him how, but he gave nosati*
factory explanation. Has bad no conversation with Mr. Almy since 00jtbat
subject. Had*a conversation with Mr. A. Peckham, Jr. on last electron dajr.
He, Peckham, was speaking of the institution and grew quite warm; befiftsljr
. said, that he had suffered by the institution in that court;house'. Witfttfi
asked how and with whom, but Peckham did not explain. J ~
* ‘ ■ Isaac A. D enm*.
' Nichols Hassardy of the town and county of Newport, of lawful fge^ot
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following infoirogatttffe.
Intg. Have you ever heard Capt. Geo. Howland say that he knew iffl
Digitized by Google
59
contribution’of money being made in the royal arch chapter in Providence or
in any other masonic body for the relief of the western sufferers as they were
called, or those then in prison in the western part of New-York as concerned
in the abduction or murder of Morgan. Did you ever hear him say that he
bad been so informed by an? royal arch or other mason?
Ana. H e does not distinctly recollect of having heard him say any thing
like tliut.
Intg. Have you frequently heard Mr. Howland converse upon the subject
of masonry, if so, what appeared to be his sentiments upon that subject.
An*. He has had a great deal of talks with Oapt. Howland on that sub­
ject. Has heard him say that there was nothing criminal in masonry that he
knew Of, never heard him say that there was any tiling in the masonic obli­
gations incompatible with any other obligations, religious or civil. Howland
has said that there were some things denied by masons which he would not
deny if called upon. On one occasion after having attended at an exhibition
showing the ceremonies of initiation into the first degrees of masonry, How­
land said that it was all correct. When witness asked him how he came ot
tell him that Morgan’s illustrations of the three first degrees were not correct,
Howland replied that they were correct but he would not tell him so becausft
I12 expected he would he continually boreing him about it. He (witness) some­
times thought Capt. [lowland was a pretty good antimason. He (Howland)
•was at one time invited to supper at Dr. C ase’s and called on witness'to
go down with him which he di.t, and left him there when he came away, he
thinks H iwland staid two hours after him. They conversed about Dr. Case’s
difficulties with the masons, and he (Howland) said lie thought that Dr. Case
bad been misrepresented in some instances by the masons. " l’1
In answer to questions by George Turner.
Did you ever hear any person at your house endeavor to pump out of Capt.
Howland any information about masonry or the proceedings of masons?
Ans. He thinks lie has. He has himself. Can not swear that any oth­
er person had any such design; he had himself.
Intg. W as or was not Capt. Howland at one time very free to talk about
the institution, and did he not offer or propose to bring them a book in cypher,
and off ;r a wager that no person present could find out how to read it in six
months; and did lie not produce (here such a book?
Ans. Capt. Howland always talked very freely upon the subject of ma­
sonry until lately. Since the excitement has got so high hs~tms been more
reserved. Howland once said he would bring a book there in cypher about
masonry and he afterwards did bring such a book and he offered to make a
bet that none but masons could read it. Wilness took it but could make
nothing of it. Mr. G jorge Turner said he would engage to read it and get.,
a key to it in a short timy, and did than find out some part of it. .
Intg. Did Howland ever say in your presence that “ he would be damned
iftha masons could make him swear to a lie for them;” if so, what was the :
occasion and when and where was it?
Ans. He heard him say something of the kind at his house but when he
can’t tell; ha heard him say that he would not swear to any thing that vygs
not true for masons nor any body^eUe. . . , .
Intg. Did Capt. Howiaud, or did he not, of his own freewill and accord
have that book in cypher in the possession of some person, 'vho was present at
your house* and did you ever hear him ask to have it returned to him?, { . ,
.Ans. H j does not recollect, hut it rather strikes him that he did leave it;
with Mr. Turner; has no recollpctiia whether he has heard lum ask to have it
returned.
,Dues. by cammUtee. Wbea Howland, said be would out swear to say
12
Digitized by Google
JO
thing not tno, for masons or any boA j alae—what led to hit making a
speech; did he intimate that he thought any mason* would ask or wish hiqi
tp swear to what was not true ? Did he say or intimate that he thought that
any other masons would swear to what was not true?
Ans. There had been a case on. trial in court, in which one party was II
mason and the other not, in which testimony of masons had been given.
Howland and myself were talking about that testimony at the time he made
the above remark. He, Howland made no such intimation as that expressed
in the question. . , . - # 1
Ques. Have you ever known any mason of reputable standing m speiety
to justify or palliate the murder of Morgan?
Ans. He don’t know about that. He has heard a map,on (Mr. Henry
Moore) some time after people began to talk pretty, freely about, the affair,
say that he did not believe a word of it, and if it vvas so it wa? no more than
he deserved. He witness kps never heard any, other mason express such a
sentiment. , , : . . - , . , . ,
.. Quest., Did Mr. Moore express this , as hi$ sober, deliberate opinion*, pr
did be say it by way of retort and in answer to. some accusation,, against
masons?' . ‘ ’ , , , ,
Ans. He expressed himself warmly, and as though hg really felt it.
There. was:no provocation at. all. t , , . . t ,
Quest. Have you pot on many occasions in presence of Mr. Moore and ,
to him, charged masons with the murder of Morgan and,said that ippsons jua-
tified.it? " , , -Vr. /
l(Ans. (He don’t know ,but he might have said so,‘and dqn’t know as^ba
did. He has said that he believed the institution a? an institution of ma­
sonry had screened the perpetrators of the decd, gnd he believed it honestly,
and does believe it now. . M
Questf Have you not had many disputes with Mr. Moore upop such accu­
sations? Ans. A good many.
Intg. Have you both generally or often got warm on such occasions?
4
<
Ans. Yes; I never knew Moore on any occasion when any quest-
iop was asked him about the 'murder of Morgan, but what he would an-*
awer warmly and as if he felt it, even if ever so cool before.
Intg. Was if on ohe ofthose occasions that Mr. Moore used tbeex-
pressions yon have stated ? Ans. No—it was not. ,
Intg. On what occasion was it? when? who were present? what
led t6 it? * ' . . ' ’
' Ans. 1 was asking him whether he believed, that Moigan was car­
ried off by masons. We were talking pretty coolly. He replied as
before Stated. There was no one present. It was out at ,the doorJ
. :This
was twto o*r threfe years-Ogo as near as he recollects. * Moore has since
held a different lahguage. He says now let the masons be punished*
and'better hang'the whole of them. {I have heard him say that often;
heard himand another mason with him say the same fhing last1night; tbo
other mason was Baker, the mason by trade. : N ichols*H assardn
Hovddnd of Newport, of lawful a£e, on solemn oath, doth da*
©(are and say in answer to interrogatories: !
.That he is a maion. 'Has thken* the royal ar'cli degree and the de­
grees belhw !h their order. He has also taken the two decrees of roy­
al and select master.5 The fitst three he took in Mount Verijign lodgdj
iWriderice, about The other' degrees'he took in the royal
arch chapter in PrbVidencfe at differerit times. All bf.thein b© thinks i
prior to the year 1825. ^
' Quest.'by cdnfeuttd^; Dtryon’ now-recollect the oath* adnmtffto-
ed to you ?
Digitized by Google
9 t
AntL *b*&oiM laioW'hfIf roadie irio (and being read he sayg,)-«»tlM
formnow read to me from paper annexed ' marked A is the first oatH
I took, and is the same word for word, as I believe, except that the lat-
ter or penal part of the oath is different. The expressions in the oath
Itook were ere (or before) I would reveal, Ac. Ac. I would have, Ac*
and that was my understanding of the oath, and not that I agreed to
suffer any such punishment should I reveal, Ac. That the fellow craft’s
ohhgation rrowread to him from same paper is correct with the excep­
tion and'Oorreotion already mad<* in case of the- first degree. The form
of the master’s oath in eome paper is the same he took with the correc­
tion in the pena^j already mentioned. The variations or additions con­
tained in paper marked* E. being read to him he says, he recollects
clause No. 1, very well; but whether it was in the oath or lecture he
can’t tell; he thinks it was in the master’s degree. The words in the
clause may or not have been in the oath he took; he can’t recollect;
he qajauiot now well distinguish between the form of the oaths he took
in Providence, and those he has heard administered elsewhere. He*
does*not recoUeotthe words in Nos. 3, 4 and 5. The form of royalarch
mason’s oath read to him from same paper he believes to be the oath he
took. , . ' ... ............... , -
T
/ ...
, ,la further answer to questions contained in paper marked E he says,
in answer to No 6, that those words he has heard somewhere; they
familiar, to ,«iy. ear; Whether they were in the oath or lecture .or
whether he heard them ua the Providence or some other chapter he can’t
say; he thinks he heard them in Providence, but is not positive. To
the seventh he makes the same answer as to the last. To the eighth he
answers,explicitly that he never took any such oath. To the ninth he
answer? that he never took-any suchoath..
Answers to standing interrogatories. v ,
10th.. He ans^e*?.ip the negative. . .
14th, I^e apawers in ^he negative. ‘
He anewers.jin^ the negative^-he never did hear any masoxi
justify or palliate the abduction or killing of Morgan. I have never
heard much said about it among masons for pr against it.
33lh.‘ , He answer? in the negative. r . .V . J
Question by committee,. Have you ever had any conversation with
others upon that subject; if^so, what was if ?
* ' ?
*Ans. He recollects having had some such conversation with some
person or persons here in Newport, he thinks; the persons he cannot
now name; his recollection is indistinct. There was some talk about a
contribution having been made in somelodge or chapter in Providence,
and I was referred to and joined in the conversation upon the occasion;
Slid f then mentioned that I had heard Or read such athing before; that
the*first time I went to Providence I would enquire about it. I believe
1 mentioned that I had heard or read it in Providenqp; it might have
t
eqh in New-York; which place* he was then frequently visiting on
usiness.
Question by committee. Did you ever hear any such proposal fbcia
contribution, made in any lodge or chapter in Providence or elsewhere
by any member? Ana. No.
In answer to questions by George'Turner:
Qfiest. What lodges have you attended in foreign countries?: when
and where? Are their ceremonies and modes of initiation and work
as far as you know them similar to such as you have observed in this
eo,unity? . . . .
■
* Ans. * Has attended a lodge in Curraeotr, and a French and Ameri-
Digitized by Google
j in Ndrfolk, and hr vfcrfoua other "places!® t&eislaitds foil iv
Their ceremonies’and mode of working with few variation*
arc'the same as ours. .
Quest. If you considered the penalty of your masonic oaths in the
light you have stated, how do you account for there being a distinct
penalty to the -oaths of the several degrees, and all of them if inflicted
necessarily producing doafb, but all by different means?
Ans. He knows of no reastm for the variation except it is to make
each one more impressive and binding and also that the different de­
grees may be distinguished by the forms of tW obligations.
Quest, Who was master of Mount Vernon lodg<a at the time yon
took the three first degrees ? »t
. Ans. Henry Martin was master, he thinks; whether he wad to
when he, the witness, took the whole, witness can't tell; thinks he war.
Quest. Are the duties pointed out in the masonic lectures consider*
ed by masons as binding on them as the addresses aud charges are#* **
Ans. He thinks they are. ^ *•
"Quest. Did you ever know a masonic obligation to be adtafriifttfeHJi
tty' way of affirmation? •*
Ans. Not to his knowledge. He never heard the affirmation calM
for. There is nothing to make him doubt thaft it would be administered
if called for. ’ rif‘
-
\vOldest. Did this conversation occur at Mr. Hassard’d6a thd'&ffbt
night that you produced there the masonic book id cypher containing
the lectures on the three first degrees of masonry ? ‘ ’t*'
.Ans. He cannot say. V
‘v t|4<i,*tv
*'**•
* Quest. Is that book, one. authorized by the lodges or grand M fb
of this State as instruction in the masonic lectures on the three first de^
grees of masonry?
Ans. He cannot say. He knows nothing about ft.
it'.Que3t. Have you or have you not studied it for that purpose?
’Ans. tie has studied it for his own instruction and to biueh d td p
rust;' . * ’ : : ro ■
Quest. Are the lectures as laid down in that book, when duly deci­
phered, a correct deli&eatipn of the masonic lectures on those degrees
as practised in the lodges in this State ? Ans. Yes.
G eo rg e H o w la n d .
Bateman Munro, of Portsmouth, in the county of Newport, of lawful
age, on solemn oath doth declare and say in answer to the following ifr*
terrogatories:
.. Intg. Are you or rJiayc you been a freemason; ifj&
o how many £$•
grees;in masonry have you taken, and by what lodges or chapters wera
you admitted, and at what time?
Ans. I am a freemason, and about forty years ago I took the first de­
gree in Charleston, South Carolina, and the next two in Bristol, R. I.
fia the St. John’s lodge* ...
^ Intg. by request. Have you or have you not said that masonry has
been of little use to you cs a' farmer, but that while you went to sea and
traded, you found it of great service?
*-' Ans. He has sosaid and so found it while "u foreign countries, among
the French, Spanish and English*
- Intg. In-what ivajs did you find it servicablq?
Ans. By showing himselfas a mason he has got information what tha
'markets were, and what he gould do and whpt he could net; and h/
~V * "
Digitized by G o o g l e
making hhnseif ktomm lira mason hw hm beenaMddahd assfrtfclf it*
femoggTiog his goods in the Spanish dominions—never in this country.
In the countries he has mentioned be has been aided and assisted by
Che officers of the customs, and also by tlie governor himself, and also
the bishop. For four years I sailed from this country with a mcroorai*-
dam of.contraband goods for them, ahd for which I never paid any du­
ty, making three or four voyages a year: the port I allude to Was Ha­
vana. I have myself received formed'assistance from maaohs on vari­
ous occasions. I have, through the induenee of my masonry, derived
great benefit to myselfand owners; and I have always made use of my
masonry for that purpose^ I have made myself known in foreign coun­
tries by the arts and sciences given me. Bateman Monrov
WUliam JVilkimon, at Providence, Rhode Island, sworn, says, inr
answer to the interrogatories marked D. '
Answer to 1st interrogatory. I am a freemason, and have taken the
following degrees in masonry, viz.: entered apprentice, fellow craft,
master mason, mark master, past master, most excellent master, royal
arch; and knight of the red cross, knight templar and knight of Malta,
which' are usually blended together ana considered as oho degree; and
the royal master’s and select master’s degrees I have also taken. I
was initiated intothe first degree in St. John’s lodge No. $, ih the State
house in Providence, in Jjme, 1792, and I received the Second and third
degrees in the same lodgdduring the same year. I redeivetfthet hreenext
degrees in the Providence chapter of royal arch masons, fate in #93.
I also received the degree of royal arch mason insaid chapter, in No­
vember, 1793. The degrees of knight of the red cross; knight templar
and knight ofMalta, I received in St. John’s encampment, id Providence^
The other degrees I received in what is called the counsel ofroyal anil
BOlOtjt masters, in Providence. I was made a royal arch mason on the-
first evening of opening a chapter in Providence, which wo9 the first
chapter ever opened in the state of Rhode Island, and this chapter l
believe wa? the see m i chapter ever opened in New England,.
Ans. to &d. There was.-
An3. to 3d. I am not positive whether this was the case wrfh me on
taking the entered apprentice’s degree; but I belfeve that such a decla­
ration was made to me by the presiding officer on taking the obligations
in each of the other degrees which I have taken. I have been the pre­
siding officer, and' havendmihistered the obligation in each of the
degrees up to the degree of royal arch mason, inclusive, and I have
invariably stated to the candidate on his taking each of the obligations,
that nothing in the obligation which he wa3 about to take Would inter-
‘fere with hi3 religiou3 or political opinions, Or with the duty he owed to
his maker or his country; this wa3 the substance of the declaration. 1
canUot be positive as to the precise words made use of. So far as I
ha^e been acquainted with the masonic institution', its principles and ^
practises, this sentiment has bedh universally inculcated and practised
Upon, that the masonic obligations were not to interfere With the politics
or religion of the mason* It was always consideredthat the institution
hadnothing to do with a man’s religion, farther than it required a belief*
1n€rod; if the candidate was k^nown to"i>e an atlreist he wdfcld be re­
jectedat on£e. . <
Ans. to 4th. I think that I could state the substance^ofthe obliga­
tions, but cannot rdpeat them verbatim.. The obligations in the jthree
first degrees,, read from paper marked Ay are, I believe, the sattie obli­
gations without variation which1 tools',and which I have usually*adxttih-
Digitized by Google
H
»4o4get, JCfea^reftm
why. I cannotrepcatthe obligations verbatim is, that I havenot presided
in a.,lodge or adjmaisfcered thelm for nearlytwenty:yearn. It has'uot
come to my knowLedge,that the obligations have been written or printed,
hut they have been handed down as matters,of tradition.' I read* ma­
sonic obligations in a book called.Jaebin and JBoaz, nearly forty yean
.ago; with this exception I have-never seen,masonic.obligations written
or printed until now; The several obligations read from papet marked
B, being the mark master’s obligation and the other obligations up to
the* degree of troyal arch mason, inclusive, are substantially the sam
e
obligations which I took, and which I have administered* and which I
have always seen administered in these degrees, in chapters of masons.
There may be some verbal variations, but no substantial difference.
. The obligations of the degrees ofjkuights of the red cross and knights ,
templars, read from paper marked C, are substantially the same obli- ,
which I took*.and whjph I have beard administered in encamp*
'meats. j , l4 . . . • v • - - - . . ■ .
«. TJiepe is pothing in the regulations of masonry which would prohibit
'an affirmative from being giveh instead of an oath. I never. ka«w,as 1
'recollect,.any person, request that the affirmation instead of the cith
^should be given to him. . .
Answers to interrogatories, relative to the clauses in the. oath w
A liyaritual, on.paper msurked E. ; , .\ -
>
: Ans. to 1st. I do not recollect any such thing,;
Ans. to 2d. . I don’t recollect any thing of the kind.in the obligation*
It/is a general principle of paasonryjo assist a worthy brother in all hv
lawful undertakings. ,
Ans. to 3d. And the words “ and.they left at my,own e le c tio n I never
ftiQurd in pny*obligation*; . ; t i ’ .
the dth abd 5th. I npver, hear thing of the kind nntill
ca#ie,h£ro, , ' •< V c : » - ■ •
;Plqa»e tQ explain what is mcuut b y . a ll lawful signs (a n d . summit*
'which m ay be g iv e n or sent tp m e, 4rc.” and also what is meant “
th e length o f m y cable to w ,” in the master’s oath,, and the eth^r,clauses in
this opth. * * -
Apsr the first clause has reference to the notices to attend the lodge,
and also to applications for assistance. lt If'within the length of myeebk
tyw*,” moans ifwithin my ability, convenience and inclination. Thisbts
Always been my understanding of the meaning of this expression,,tad
1 haye always practised upon this construction, and believe it to b
e
correct.
., The expression, “I will aid and assist all worthy master masons, the
widows ana orphans,'' I think h&a been before explained in the expla&
s*
ition relative to the cable tow. .
1 . The expression, 1
6
1.will keep p brother's secretefyc. means that***
[should not unnecessarily, or lightly reveal a brother’s secrets. 14d
not consider that this would authorize the concealment of crimes-cpm-
jontted by ,a mason. If a mason had stated to me that he had committed
.any crime, I shquld have felt myself bound to, disclose it to the lodge,
and to have had the mason expelled;: I do not think that I should, us*
dqr my masonic obligations, have concealed any crime committed bya
mason against the laws, or against society, whether the mason badtoo
.expelled pr pot. .
(
The expression, “J will apprise him of all approaching danger/* ion*
.pot require a mason to warn a.brother of the danger of punu&msnlftr
otfep^as' y^hich heh^d committed pggjpst fa* ‘W* f P*W jut tiif-
Digitized by Google
ferent construction upon this expression m the obligations, nor pra<v
tided upon, nor heard a different construction by masons. I consider
that the obligation, to aid, assist, and keep the secrets of a brother ma­
son, applies only to a worthy brother. * *
How do you construe the penalty of the obligation ? Answer. I con-'
sider it as merely personal, and binding upon the honor of; the masonf
and in no other way.
What Is the explanation of the plate, No. 17, in the Templar’s Chart,
byJeremy L. Cross.? Answer. The Templar’s obligation contains this
expression, s<head stricken off and placed on the highest spire in Christen­
dom,” and this plate looks like a picture of it. I never examined Cross*
chart in my life, and know nothing, about it.
I never heard any such expressions used iu chapters as stated in pa­
per marked [E-.]- Nos. 6 , 7, 3 and 9.
Answer tq oth interrogatory. A verbal charge was given to me at.
the time of taking each of my masonic obligations; the charges were
substantially the same as those in Webb’s Monitor. W ebb’s Monitor
hud not been published at the time of my receiving the degrees up to the
royal arch degree. I considered the charges as embracing the true
spirit of masonry, and binding upon me for my rule and government, aa
ainason.
Question. W as the statement by the presiding officer, that your ma­
sonic obligations were not to interfere with your religion or politics
made to you previous to taking each obligation ?
Answer. I do not reocdlect distinctly, but I think-it was,
Answer to 10th. I never had any such idea. I have before stated
my construction of the obligations. . I never heard it said by any mason
that any lodge or any masons had any such power or jurisdiction.,
Answer to 1 2 th. The-constitution and by-laws of lodges are frequent­
ly printed and published, and are always kept in books of record* I
know of no secret by-law s, and from my long acquaintance with the ma­
sonic institution, I can say w'ith safety, there are no secret by-laws. I
do not know that any lodge has any book of records, or other book.cqu--
taining secrets. .•
Answer to )3th. Id o not. ,
Answ er to 14th. I did not. I have been a mason for, nearly forty
years. I consider the object of masonry to be a social compact, Tronx
which the topics of religion and politics are excluded; that the institu­
tion inculcated the duty to extend our charity to all mankind; and more
particularly to our brethren; and that it inculcated the moral and social
virtues*
I never did,
I never did. t.
I never did. .
Never, iq no instance.
I never did.
I have visited lodges in other states, and do not
know of any difference,between their masonic penalties, signs, and mod©
of,working, and, those, in the, lodges in this state.
Answer to 26th! The several lodges in this are under the subordi­
nation and jurisdiction of the grand lodge of this, state; and the said
grand lodge is not under the subordination or jurisdiction of any body
qf masons in the w'orld. And the grand ,lodge have no communication
w^ith the grand chapter, general grand chapter or encampment, or any oth­
er lugher bodwofjgoa^ons. (J '
Th^ grand lodges in the several states communicate with each other as
squats, their elections of officers and other masonic information, but in
Answer to 16th.
Answer to 17th.
Answer to 19th.
Answer to 21st.
Answer to 22d.
Answer to 25th.
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
08
%A
I hen
An:
t|
>
c|
o
V
I P
i
,f
too other way. There ie no connexion in government Or otherwise he*
tween the grand lodges in the several stales and the higher orders of
masons; but no man can be admitted to the higher degrees unless M
has taken all the lower degrees. In the origin of the grand lodgofl^
this state, there being but two lodges iu the Etate, there was a vote to
-admit eight honorary members, 1 tbink; but the grand lodge passed a
vote many years alter, that they would not admit any new honorary
members. In the year 1198, the chapters in the several New-England
states and the state ol'Ncw-York were formed into one masonic body dP
association, called the general grand chapter of the northern states;
this association was afterwards extended so as to embrace all the chap*
ters in the United States; and this masonic association is now called
the general grand chapter of the United States, and the presiding offi­
cer is called the general grand high priest. The several chapters iq
each state form the grand chapter of the state, and the presiding officer
•ofthis masonic association is called the grand high priest. There is no
subordination or connexion between any masonic association in the
ted States and any lodge or order of masons iu Europe. The grari^
chapters in the several states arc subordinate arid under the jurisdiction
of the general grand chapter of the United States.' I have no knosM
ledge at what time, or in what country said higher degrees in m asonry
originated, or when they were introduced into this country. The royal
arch and three preeeeding degrees were introduqpd into this state in
November, in the year 1793, and the higher degrees have been intro­
duced into this state since that time. The royal arch and three preced­
ing degrees were introduced into this state by MoseB Sci.xax, P e le ^
Clark, Thomas W. Moore, the then British Consul, Daniel S tilw e j
Jonathan Dennison, Samuel Stearns, and I believe, Daniel D ailey, at
the request of other citizens of this state, who wished to receive these
degrees.
Ans. to 27th. It is when it is thought expedient.
Ans. to 28th. I have no knowledge of any thing of the kind iu omji
masonic body.
Ans. to 29th. The notice is entered on the records so that such c f l
polled member may not be received into that ledge.
Ans. to 30th. I have no knowledge of any such thing, neither havo
Xheard ofany such thing.
Ans. to 31st. It is, if the mason makes himselfknown as such, and
the lodge becomes satisfied that hi3 pretensions arc such as he represent*
them, and he has taken the degree of that lodge. In answer to the sec­
ond part of the question I would say we do not know any great men rin
inai nry, we consider ourselves as equals. If a mason had been expell­
ed from a lodge and we know it, we should not admit him. If a mason
had been convicted of any great crime and we knew it, we should Dot
admit him into the lodge. W c should not undertake to judge of hisgoilt
or innocence. I make this declaration from my knowledge of masonry.
I never knew such a case.
Answer to 32d. I do not know of any proceedings in any lodge or
masonic body on this subject. I have always considered that tho ma­
sons in this State had no more to do with this business relative to Mor­
gan, than citizens of this State had, as citizen. It was a metier fee
another jurisdiction.
Ans. to 33d. I never have heard any mason on any occasion justify
the ahduction or killing of Morgan.
In answer to the 1 ltli interrogatory omitted. I consider the sectDf*
of masonry to be merely personal by which oue mason may know anoth-
Digitized by Google
ar, There is nothing in the secrets of masonry which affect any ether
persons than masons. The sole object of the secrets of masonry, is, I
consider, to enable a mason to distinguish a brother mason from a per*
son who is not a member ofthe fraternity. The secrets of masonry can­
not affect any other member of society.
Question by request. When you enter a regular organized lodge do
you make any sign or motion; if so to what does it allude?
Ans. This relates to one of the secrets of masonry, and cannot affect
any other person than a mason; and I therefore decline answering it, I
do not intend to answer or deny any questions relative to the secrets of
inasonry. I do not mean to say whether any such sign or motion is or
is not made on entering a lodge.
Quest, by request. Are the ceremonies of the initiation of a knight
templar specified in page 250, and the representation or plate at that
page, called the 5th libation in Allyn’s Ritual, correct?
Ans. I never read them, and I never saw this book, aiu^I have no
wish to see it.
Quest. Are you willing to answer any questions relative to the forms
of initiation and secrets of masonry ?
Ans. I am not, a9 these are merely personal and concern no body but
masons; and Ido not think the question proper to be answered.
Quest. Do you know any thing about a check degree or new pass
word’s being given by any grand master in this State to yourselfor any
other mason since the Morgan affair?
Ans. I know nothing about any check and new degree; there has
been something instituted to keep out intruders or spies from the lodge*
I do not know what this is, as I have forgotten it entirely.
Question by request. Were these words, “ This pure wine I take
from this cup in testimony of my belief of the mortality of the body and
the immortality of the soul, and as the sins of the whole world were laid
upon the head of our Saviour; so may the sins of the person whose skull
this once was, be heaped on ray head in addition to my own, and may
they appear in judgment against me both here and hereafter, should I
violate or transgress any obligation in masonry or the orders of knight­
hood, which I have heretofore taken, take at this time, or may heresf-
ter be instructed in, so help me God”—called the fifth libation, adminis­
tered to you on taking the knight templar obligation?
Ans. These words made no part of the obligation which was admin­
istered to me on taking the knight templar’s degree.
Quest. Were these said words used in any ceremony ofinitiation in
the knight templar’s degree?
Ans. In regard to the secrets or ceremonies of this or any other de-
g re e s in masonry, I neither affirm or deny any thing.
Questions by request. Is there any thing in the royal arch mason**
oath which refers to keeping the secrets of a brother companion royal
arch mason?
Ans. The royal arch mason’s oath which has been read me embrac­
es every thing which I have heard administered in the oath in this de*
g ree.
Quest. From whence are dispensations obtained for the establish­
m ent of.grand lodges, grand chapters and grand encampments?
Ans. The grand lodges in each State were formed by the lodges in the
State, and without any dispensation from any higher power* A general
grand chapter was formed as I have before stated; and the constitution
o f the general grand chapter provided that there should be a grand chap-
l a r in each State composed of the officers of the chapters in the State*
- D
igitizedb
yGoogle
Questions by request. Hare you known any person who was a m»-
ion to give the secrets of masonry to any other not a mason, or instruct
another in the higher degrees than those regularly received by him?
Ans. I never did.
Quest. Have yon as a mason ever been told any thing respecting
Morgan, or his fate, or his difficulties, in which you could put conii-
dence; if so, by whom and at what time? Ans. I never have.
Quest. Did you ever know oi‘Lewis C. Brown, of Cumberland be­
ing tried in the grand lodge in Providence for an offence against ma­
sonry ?
Ans. I have some faint recollection of some difficulty, but know
nothing ofthe accusations; it was some years ago; I think the records
of the grand lodge will show. William Wilkinson.
Barzillai Cranston, affirmed. In answer to questions says, he is a
printer—resides in Providence—is a mason, and a member of Mount
Vernon Ipdge, Providence royal arch chapter, Providence council of
royal and select masters, all in said Providence, and the grand lodge
of the state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations—that lie re­
ceived the degrees of entered opprentice, feHow craft and master ma­
son, in said lodge in the year 1814—the degrees of..mark master, past
master, most excellent master and royal arch mason, in the sirid chap­
ter, in the year 1817—and the degrees of royal and select masters, io
the said council, in the year 1820. Have been presiding officer in the
lodge and council, and am at present presiding officer in the chapter,
tad secretary in the lodge.
Obligations were administered in each degree, and received in good
faith by me, which have been w
’rittcn out in full and laid before your
honorable committee, and are the same obligations in the aforemention­
ed degrees written on papers marked A B and C. A good deal ofpains
have been taken to give the precise words of the obligations as they
have been given most, in the different bodies, by consultation among
the present and past officers. That form which the most of the officers
had used, was agreed on as the most proper form. I am certain these
obligations are correct—that is as I learned them, and I learned then
ofthe officers who administered them to me. My view of the obligations
iff, that they are ancient forms and solemn asseverations; that they have
been kept in use as much for their antiquity -as for any other reason,
except the want of confidence in the members to frame better ones;
as the charter of this state has been clung to. The declaration that
4,the obligation is not intended to interfere with the candidate’s religious
or political duties,” as well as the eharges delivered or read from the
*monitor to every candidate I consider as proper qualifications ofthe obli­
gations. 1have known the affirmation to be given to candidates,and should
always have considered it my duty, while presiding, to have administered
it on being requested to. I know of nothing in masonry against giving
or taking the affirmation. My construction ofthe point in the roasterS
obligation which says, “ I will keep a brother’s sedrets,” &c. is that the
word worthy ought to be understood, as it is expressed in a preceding
point. And that they arc binding on me so far that I would suffer the
penalties rather than reveal w'hat I have therein promised to conceal,
and no further. So I have instructed others. Had the obligations been
framed to suit modern times, the explanations and qualifications which
an improved moral sense has given them, would be unnecessary. Asa
consequence of the masonic compact, I can state that money has been
-appropriated by the lodge I belong to, for charitable purposes, in'dtffTp
year since it was established, or since it received a charter from tb*
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
99
State. I never Visited a lodge or other masonic body out of this Statfe, ;
blit once, and that was in Seekonk, for the purpose of giving them in*
formation respecting the manner of conferring the degrees and the lec­
tures.
I have never heard a mason justify the murder or killing of Morgan,
and never heard one speak lightly of that transaction since it has been
believed at all to be true. Before it was thought to be true, I heard ma-
Bons and others speak lightly of it, as a story got up for some other pur­
pose—that of making sale for his book See. rather than because it was
true.
1 consider the masonic institution a charitable one, not merely a mu*
tual insurance company; because a member or his distressed family may
' draw out more than he ever paid in. If a mason is in distress, his cl^im
« for relief is good. (See by-law and abstract of charities.)
Extracts from the by-laws of Mouut Vernon Lodge. . “ Article 14.—
Should any brother disclose any transactions of this lodge, to the disad­
vantage of the crati or any individual brother; or conduct himself disor­
derly ; or by visciousness and immorality of conduct act unworthily the
character of a mason; for the first offence he shall be privately admon­
ished by the master and wardens; for the second he shall receive a
public admonition before the lodge; and for the third, when proved
to the satisfaction of two thirds of the members present at a regular
meeting, he shall be expelled the lodge, by ballot, as unworthy the
fraternity. Provided, nevertheless, that should any member of this
lodge be guilty of any heinous and Infamous crime, deserving summary
punishment, upon impeachment therefor, he may be expelled the frater­
nity at the next regular meeting succeeding that at which he was im­
peached; ^wo thirds of thfc members present voting for the same by
*x Article 2 1 .—The master and wardens of this lodge shall be a
standing committee for charitable purposes, and shall, on applications;
inquire into the circumstances of indigent and distressed brethren and
th eir families; and it shall be in the power of not less than two of them
to draw from the funds of the lodge, and relieve such of the distressed
or needy as necessity may require, not exceeding the sum of four dol­
lars to any one brother or family, at any one time, without the appro­
bation of the lodge.” A true extract, B. C ranston, Secretary,
Jhnount of money paidfor charitable purposesfrom 1799 to 1830.
1799, $18; 1800, $10,67; 1801, $18; 1802, $30,50; 1803, $13,25;
1304, $13; 1805, $15,75; 130C, $23,36; 1807, $38,62; 1808, $15,12;
1809, $15; 1810, $28,50; 1811, $48,06; 1812, $34,25; 1813, $29;
1814, $63; 1815, $45; 1816, $57; 1817, $106,89; 1818, $46,15; 1819,
$48,50; 1820, $33; 1821, $35; 1822, $56,75; 1823, $107,25; 1824,
$107,75; 1825, $97,04; 1826, $132,50; 1827, $100,92; 1828, $97;
1829, $71; 1330, $74,50.—Total, $1,715 13, exclusive of money rais­
ed by subscription, which probably amounted to several hundred dol­
lars.
Providence, May, 1830. Signed, J ason Williams, Com.”
A true copy from the records of Mount Vernon Lodge.
Providence, June 3d, 1831. B. Gra.nston^ Sec’ry.
The by-laws provide for the expulsion of a member for disclosing
46 any of the transactions of the lodge to the disadvantage of the craft,1
/
Stc. I know of no other punishment than expulsion, (Sue by-lavrf 15th
Be. John, and 14th Mount Vernon.) . ^
D
igitizedb
yGoogle
1Q0
The by-laws are 'generally written, and kept in a book subject to ths
inspection of any itromber. The constitution and by-laws of,the graiyl
lodge are printed, and lay on the table* I have printed by-laws for a
lodge; I think Washington lodge; I know of no secret by-law®.
In answer to the several interrogatories on paper marked JE, I say,
Answer to 1st. I am confident I never did.
Ans. to 2d. I never did precisely in these words; there is a clause
in the master’s obligation that “ I will not wrong a brother or deprive him
of his good name,” &c.
Ans. to 3d. I never did; the form in that part of the oath is, “I will
keep a brother’s secrets as my own, when committed to me in charge
as such, murder and treason excepted.”
Ans. to 4th. I never did.
Ans. to 3th. I never did.
Ans. to 6th. I never heard it in that form.
Ans. to 7fh. I never did.
Ans. to 8th. I never heard the words “ espouse his cause so far asto
extricate him from the same, whether he be right or wrong.” This obli­
gation confined the assistance to be rendered, to a worthy brother.
Ans. to 9th. I never heard the expressions in the latter part of this
extract administered.
Ans. to 11th. The extract 7th, &c. is correct. I shall decline an­
swering relative to the manner.
Ans. to 12th. I never so heard it.
Questions by request. During the period for which you state the ex­
penditures for charitable purposes, What amount was expended for oth­
er purposes; and what was the receipts of the lodge for that time from
all sources ?
Ans. I am unable to state; the records of the lodge will show.
Quest. Can you state any instance in which a brother or his familj
S
lave received in charity a greater sum than he paid in for fees, quarter-
y dues, &c? If so please name the instance.
'Ans. I think I could with the assistance of the records of the lodge,
and the orders drawn by the charitable committee of the lodge; their
orders are summed up, audited and recorded at the end of the year. No
quarterly dues are paid.
Question by request. You state that the forms ofoaths here exhibit­
ed are such as most of those who consulted about forming them agreed
to; who were the persons who consulted, agreed and directed those to
be exhibited as your obligations? and who, if any, objected, and w
hat
were those objections?
Ans. The persons who consulted about the form of oaths were Jo­
seph S. Cooke, Peter Grinnell, William C. Barker, James Salisbury.
Christian M. Nestell, Cyrus Fisher, John Andrews, Moses Richard­
son, Samuel Jackson, 2d, and myself. These persons, I believe, had
all been officers in the lodges, and it was their intention to givethe
form of obligations as they had been administered in St. John’s Lodge,
the Mount Vernon Lodge, and in the chapter and council in Provi­
dence, for a number of years past. There were no objections by either
of these persons to reporting these forms of obligations. We found
some little verbal variations, but no material difference; I had usedthe
word u unless%
” instead of the word “ except,” used by the other offi­
cers ; and there were some such other immaterial variations.
Question by the committee. Have any of the funds of the Mount
Vernon lodge or St. John’s lodge in Providence been diverted fromtbs
legitimate object of these institutions, or have any of said funds bee*
misapplied?
D
igitizedb
yVj O O Q IC
101
Ans. I believe that they have not. I think there is not one Individ"
ual in ten, who husbands his funds better than those institutions do.
Quest. In addition to the funds of these lodges do their members
make voluntary contributions tor charitable purposes ?
Ans. It wa3 formerly the case when the funds were small, that they
did. The lodges appointed committees to solicit contributions, and to
apply them for the reliefof the distressed members, and their families.
Question by request. What are the legitimate objects to which the
funds of a lodge are appropriated?
Ans. I consider that the legitimate application ofthe funds is to char­
itable purposes, and to the ordinary and necessary expenses ofthe lodge.
Question by request. What do yon understand by the ordinary and
necessary expenses of a lodge or chapter?
A ns. I consider that oil, lights, fuel, printing and the repairs of the
hall, masonic implements, and such things would be necessary expenses,
and ought to be paid out of the funds.
Quest. By necessary and ordinary expenses do you include any oth­
er things than those before referred to, and those of a similar character?
A ns. I do not. I never have known the expenses for any dinners,
suppers, or for any other convivial entertainments paid out ofthe funds
of the lodges. I think that the expenses of some refreshments during
the meetings ofthe chapters, such as crackers aud cheese have been
paid for out of the funds ofthe chapters; the sittings of the chapters
w ere in the evening and necessarily longer, than those of the lodges.
Upon reflection, I recollect that a supper was recently paid for by the
chapter in Providence. A supper had been engaged, it was an unpleas­
ant evening aud the person providing the supper, was not likely to get
his pay for the expense which he had been at, and the chapter voted to
pay him.
Q oes. Please state what is meant by the expression “ i f w ith in th e
le n g th o f m y c a b le t o w ”
Ans. The definition which I have given and have heard other m&«>
sons give is, to bring it within the line of a mason’s duty to himself and
family.
In answer to the general interrogatories in paper marked (D) I say.
Ans. to 10th. The declaration that the obligations were not to inter­
fere with my duty to my God, or my country, was impressed on my
mind at the time oftaking the several masonic obligations, and has ever
remained there; this declaration coming from the same source as the
obligation, I considered it as a proper qualification of the obligation, and
I did not consider that I bound myself to take life, or that 1 gave the
right to any body else.
Ques. W as the address preceding the oath, given before each oath
above the master’s degree?
Ans. I think it was. It was always considered proper that this ad­
dress should be given.
Ans. to 14th. I always had an aversion to oaths from my early im-
Sressions, but I submitted to these masonic obligations; I did not, and
o not now, consider them incompatible with my moral, religious, so­
cial, or civil obligations. I have before stated what I have considered
the objects of masonry.
Ans. to 16. I have proposed a question respecting the nature and
extent of masonic oaths, myself; and I have heard the same arguments
used by masons which I have before stated; this was usually.npt in open
lodge, bi£ either before the lodge was opened, or after it was closed.
I think I have proposed the question in open lodge; and I have fre-
- Digitized'by C j O O ^ I c
103
quently proposed it to leading members of the. masonic fraternity. Th#
construction which Xhave put in this deposition upon the masonic oaths
and penalties, is the same construction which has been put upon them
by other masons, when this question was proposed. And I think that I
can say without vanity that many of the less experienced masons have
relied upon me for a correct information of the construction of these !
oaths and penalties, and generally of the principles and practices of ma­
sonry'
Ques. by request. Was there ever any distinct proposition to alter or
revise these obligations?
Ans. I do not remember of having heard any such proposition made
in a masonic body, further than what I have before stated.
Ques. asked by request. Did you ever instruct a younger member,
that if he were to reveal his masonic secrets he would not be liable to
the penalty of his obligation ?
Ans. I don’t remember of ever giving any mason such instruction?.
I have generally referred the candidate te the by-laws for instruction.
There is no punishment recognized by the masonic lodges in Provi­
dence, except what is laid down iu their by-laws.
Ans. to 29th, When the expulsion of a member of any lodge in an­
other state, has been communicated to our lodge, it has' been usual to
put down the name of such person under the head of expelled members,
I do not recollect to have seen any list of expelled members for a year
or two past, and I do not know that there have been any members ex­
pelled in that time.
Ans. to 31. It is customary in lodges to admit a worthy masonic broth­
er coming from another state, if known to be such. If a mason should
be convicted of a crime he would not be admitted into a lodge. The
lodges in this state, I think, would not take any order on a mason in
another state, who had been convicted of a crime, unless he should apply
for admission in a lodge in this state, or had been expelled from the lodge
to which he belonged.
Ans. to 32d. I think that the grand lodge have expressed their dis­
approbation in their address to the people of this state.
Ans. to 33d. I have already answered this question.
Ans. to 3oth. The candidate for the three first degrees pays into the
subordinate lodge twenty-four dollars; and the subordinate lodge pays
over to the grand lodge for every candidate initiated, the sum of two
dollars. I am not acquainted with the regulations of the grand chapter,
and the subordinate chapters on this subject.
Question by the Committee. What do you consider to be the nature
or extent of the mysteries and secrets of masonry?
Answer. I have always considered masonry to be a charitable insti­
tution, and the mysteries and secrets of masonry are such as are calcu­
lated to secure the benefits of the society to its members; these myste­
ries and secrets, I think, cannot affect the interests or rights of any
citizen, who is not a member of that Association.
Quest, by request. Is the picture in Cross' chart, plate 33, a repre­
sentation of one of the ceremonies of the royal arch degree, which you
do not feel at liberty to disclose?
Ans. I do not know what this picture reffresents, I never saw any
such representation in masonry.
Ques. by the Committee. Have you heard the deposition given yester­
day by William Wilkinson, read over deliberately r If so are the state­
ments and facts therein contained correct, so farjis they rdate to the
degrees you have taken, and so far as your knowledge extends, aadso
far as they art not varied in this your deposition ?3
dbyGoogle
103
Ans. 1 bare heard said deposition .read oror deliberately and the
statements and Tacts therein contained are correct so far as they relate
to the degrees I have taken and so far as my kuowledge extends, and so
far a9 they are not varried in this my deposition.
Quest, by request. Have you any knowledge of a book printed in
cypher now shown.to you?
Ans. I have heard something about such a book in cypher, I presume
this book to be the same; I have never read it, and do not kuow what it
contains; I never consulted it and never knew it to be consulted or
used in any masonic Lodges, or by masons. I saw such a book once,
eight or ten years ago in the hand of John Holroyd who had then re­
cently returned from from the west, I do not know what it contained*.
B arzillai C ranston.
T o the Hon. Legislative Committee, appointed to investigate the
charges against masons and masonry in R. L
Gentlemen— In ruy deposition, I was unable to answer one question
which was put to me, and referred to the records. The question was
something like this— “ Did you ever know a mason or his family to re­
ceive more out of the funds than he had paid in?” M r. Jason Williams,
the treasurer of Mount-Vernon Lodge, has since handed me the follow;-
ing list of names, with the amount paid from the funds to each. W hen
he handed it to me he observed that he supposed he had searched the
treasurer’s book far enough to answer my purpose; that he did not look
for all the cases of the kind which he might perhaps have found, and
that he did not search the book through. The following is a copy of the
treasurer’s memorandum: '*
* Members (and families) of Mount-Vernon
Lodge who have received more out of the funds than they ever paid in.
Widow Aaron Smith $ 58 00 Widow Gray $ 36 00
Widow B. Bogman 103 00
Widow J. Bogman 58 00
Family ofSteph. Williams 50 00
Widow Baglcy 30 00
John Holroyd 30 00
Widow Stockbridge Chandler 3:2 00
Widow Bleven 42 00
M r. Newcomb 28 66
Jesse Whitmore 28 00
The circumstances of tho case will be a sufficient apology for my giv­
ing the above names.
I wish the above to be made a part of, or annexed to my deposition*,
B arzillai C ranston.
I TVm, Or Barker, of Providence, R. I. Merchant Tailor, on oath do
testify and say that I am a freemason* that I have taken the degrees up
to knight templar, I took the degrees of entered apprentice,, fellow craft
and master mason i n J o h n s Lodge No. 2, in Providence, in June A.
D. 1821, and the degrees of mark master, past master, most excellent
master and royal arch in the Providence royal arch chapter in January,
A. D. 1826, and the several orders of knight of the red cross, knight
templar and knight ofmalta in St. Johns encampment of knight temp­
lars in Providence in February , A. D. 1826. I served as master of said
lodge during the years 1824, 5, 30 and 31; have been an officer in the
chapter, and am at present first officer of said encampment.
That the obligations handed in and marked A, B, and C, which I
have heard read, are in substance the same as was administered to me,
the ssupe which I have given and heard administered to others—that.be-
fore each of the oaths were administered I was informed that nothing
therein contained would in any manner interfere with my religious or
political opinions, and was asked if I was willing to take such an obliga­
tion^ I never knew any objection made to affirmation instead of s\year-
Digitized by Google
104
ing; always considered they might he given either way, and amvery
sure that they have been'administered both ways in our hall, but hare
not now any particular case within my memory. But abundant evidence
can be produced if required, and cases stated where the candidates af­
firmed instead of swearing.
At my initiation, as well as at the time of receiving the other degrees
in masonry a charge was given by the presiding officer the same as is
contained in W ebb’s Monitor, edition of 1821. At the time of taking I
said oaths nor at any time since, did I or have 1 supposed that I gave I
any jurisdiction to any man or set of men, to execute upon me the pen­
alties annexed to said obligations; but considered them as having per­
sonal allusion to myself, and as having a tendency to fortify my m
ind
against any illegal attack that might be made upon me by force or other­
wise, to extort from me any of those secrets with which I had been en­
trusted, and which I had promised never to reveal; and that shouldsuch
an attack be made upon me I should feel it my duty to lay down my life
rather than violate my vows or betray my trust: and such is my present
opinion.
I never considered that I shared in such jurisdiction over others, nor
that masons had any power to indict any penalty on any member of the
masonic institution further than expulsion from the body to which hebe­
longed. According to the 15th by-law o*fSt. John’s lodge, which eve­
ry candidate is obliged by our regulations to read or hear read before
he signs his name to them. This is the only construction I have ever
put upon the obligations, or heard put by upright adhering masons.
I have ever and do now consider the masonij institution a social and
charitable institution for mutual instruction and assistance. It isincul­
cated in masonry, that “ to relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent
on all men, but particularly on masons who are linked together byan
indissoluble chain of sincere affections. To soothe the unhappy9to
sympathise with their misfortunes, to compassionate their miseries, and
t o restore peace to their troubled minds, i9 the grand aim we have in
view. On this basis we form our friendships, and establish our connex­
ions.” It is not however my meaning to say that masons are bound to
afford permanent support to the poor. This could not be expected.—
They consider it their duty to relieve the immediate distresses ofthose
who may stand in need of assistance and an affecting instance which has
recently happened in this town, might be presented to your honors; of
a poor widow who was taken down and confined by sickness till her rc-
•sources failed, and who has received assistance from the funds ofthe
lodge and chapter of which her husband had been a member.
The secret mysteries of masonry are certain forms and ceremonial
whereby a mason may know a brother mason from the rest of mankind,
and that they are useful to none but masons, and are of such nature u
cannot possibly benefit any person unless lawfully obtained, and cannot
possibly injure the rest of mankind, there is nothing in them but whati*
perfectly consistent with morality and religion, and are calculated if
properly understood, to make better men and better citizens. We havo
no printed by-laws in our lodge, nor do I know of any except those be­
longing to the grand lodge. We have no secret by-laws.
The principles of masonry forbid the discussion of religion or politic!
in the lodge. I never knew any combination of masons for anypoliti-
cal purpose, /n ev er considered my obligations bound me to favour or
vote for a mason in preference to a better man not a mason.
I never knew any masonic sign given in any court to any judge, juror,
or officer; and if I had known or should ever know any such sign givaa
Digitized by Google
105
M aforesaid, and answered by the officer to whom it was made, I should
consider it my duty as well as the duty of every good mason, to fepor£
both parties to the lodge; and should use my utmost exertions to have
both expelled from tho same as unworthy of the fraternity, equally as
much so as for revealing any of the mysteries of our order. I should
consider they had committed as great a crime against the institution of
masonry as they had against the civil authority.
I never knew any masonic obligation to come in conflict with any oth­
er obligation, nor do 1 consider it possible in the nature of things for
Ahem to conflict; for confirmation I refer to the charge given to every
mason on his first admission to the lodge, and is contained in W ebb’s
M onitor, page 42, 43 and 44, of edition of 1821.
I have never to my recollection visited lodges in other states. There
a s a connection between lodges and grand lodges, but no other with any
Of the higher orders in masonry, either in this state, the United States
or any foreign country.
It is customary to report expelled members from one lodge to anoth­
er. There has not been any communication to my knowledge to any of
th e bodies of masonry in this State on the subject of M organ’s death.
1 never heard any mason justify the killing of Morgan, or any other
man. Do not know at what time the higher orders of masonry origin­
ated.
W e have been accused of squandering away our funds in dissipation,
but the lodges in this town abolished the system of refreshments a long
tim e ago, at a time too wl\<en it was fashionable for all social parties—
even with ministers at ordinations—to have brandy, &,c. set on the table,
During my knowledge of the institution of masonry, considerable
sum s have been applied for charitable purposes, and no call from a wor­
thy source has ever been rejected.
I do know of the sum of one thousand six hundred seventy-three dol­
lars and ninety-three cents,*having been applied for the relief of the
distressed from St. John’s lodge, No. 2, Providence, from the year
1807 to 1830 inclusive, being 24 years, according to the schedule here­
unto annexed; and the sum of one thousand seven hundred fifteen dol­
lars for the last 30 years from Mount Vernon lodge of Providence, (see
Cranston’s testimony to this point) and the sum of one thousand four
hundred two dollars and fifty-seven cents, from the royal arch chapter
in Providence, for last 23 years, (see schedule on next page) making a
sutn total of four thousand seven hundred and ninety one dollars and
sixty-three cents, in less than 30 years (from three masonic bodies) in
the town of Providence; besides large sums raised by what used to be
term ed the charitable committees,—these were committees appointed
annually to solicit private subscriptions by the several bodies of mason­
ry, and prior to the year 1824 used to collect and pay out annually va­
rious sums, say from twenty-five to one hundred dollars per year for
•each committee, of which no correct account was kept on the records,
and is not reckoned into the schedule presented,—besides considerable
sums given by the Providence council and St. John’s encampment ip
Providence, of which we have no account at present.
This exposition of our charities is not made by way of boasting, but
in self defence, and for the purpose of shewing to the committee and to
the world, that our funds have not been squandered as we have been
charged, and that our charities are not altogether mere pretence, as
some of the antimasonic prints and the testimony of seceders, have en­
deavored to fix it upon us.
No pent of the funds of the lodges are diverted to the use of the geo*
Digitized by Google
106
oral grand chapter, nor any other chapter or masonic body, except the
grtfna lodge. Nor are the lodges amenable to or under the jurisdiction of
the gen. grand royal arch chapter or any other masonic body except grand
lodges. Lodges, chapters and encampments, are as distinct from each
other, as any other society is distinct from them—no more amenable to
each other, than any other society is to them. But no person can take
the higher orders in masonry except first receiving all the lower degrees.
Extract from the treasurer’s book of St John’s Lodge, No. 2, rroyi-
dence, of money paid out for charity,
1807, $32 47 1812, $39 50 1817, $21 31
----- --------------- 1818^ 61 65
1805 and 6,
1807,
1808,
1809,
1600
33 50
38 00
34 00
1822,
1823,
1824,
1825,
1826,
$58 00
115 50
149 25
122 50
123 50
. $1673 93
royal arch chapter—account
1827, $177 3S
1828, 11050
1829, 111 00
1830, 60 00
1808, 17 37 1813, 37 00
1809, 32 00 1814, 83 00 1819, 6750
1810, 26 50 1815, • 66 00 1820, 3600
1811, 52 05 1816, 29 00 1821, 4500
Total,
Extract from the records of Providence
of monies paid out for charitable purposes from 1803.
1803 and4, $1300 1810, $70 001815, $75 001820, $4900 1825, $6300
1811, 30 00 1816, 40 00 1821, 57 00 1826,12800
1812, 63 00 1817, 1150 1822, 20001827,4100
1813, 19 00 1818, 84 32 1823, 67 00 1828, 2100
1814, 1102$ 1819, 10500 1824, 119 00 1829, 5700
1830, 3800
Total, $1402 57
It has been denied that we allow candidates for the degrees in mason­
ry to affirm instead of swearing, and as I did not recollect any case, I
have taken the liberty of procuring the testimony of H enry Martin, Esq.
on this point; Mr. M artin has been for many years familiar with all the
ceremonies in masonry, and has presided over two masonic bodies in
this town. H is testimony is full and complete on this point, and is pre­
sented to you, which I hope will be received by your honors, that this
insignificant point made so much handle of by our enemies may be put
at rest.
.Questions by Mr. W. Paine, Jr. You say in your deposition that
the oaths as handed to the committee, are substantially the oaths that
were given to you, in whTa^ do they differ?
Ans. In no single point to my knowledge.
Quest. Cannot a person be a member of a chapter encampment and
lodge at the same time ?
Ans. H e can.
Questions by G. W . Jackson. W ere not the oaths and obligations
as administered in the masonic institution considered as part of the m
i*
sonic secrets prior to 1826?
Ans. I cannot tell; they might have been by some.
Question by do. Did you ever know prior to 1826 of an instance of
a mason repeating to any but masons the oaths and obligations, as ad­
ministered in the institution.
Ans. I don’t recollect of any such instance, if I had I should hare
thought on the subject.
/, Henry Martin, of Providence, in the State of Rhode Island, testi­
fy and say, that I presided as master of Mount Vernon lodge, No. 4,is
Providence for three years; that during that time, I conferred the three
first decrees of xqasonry upon several candidates; that on addresaifif
the candidates explaining to them the nature of the oath about to beid*
Digitized by Google
101
ministered upon asking the question, “ are you willing to take such ad
oath.” I have in two or three instances been told by the candidates
that they would affirm, and accordingly did affirm them, varying the
oath so far as to use the word “ affirm” instead of “ swear,” and at the
close of the obligation instead of the words, “ so help me God, and keep
me steadfast in this oath or obligation,” using these words “ and this
affirmation /make, promising to remain steadfast in this obligation.”
H enrY M artin.
Providence, Sc. In Providence, this seventh day of January, A. D.
1832, Then personally appeared the aforenamed Henry Martin and
made oath, that the aforegoing testimony by him subscribed, is true.
Before me,
C harles F. T illinohast, Justice of the peace. *
William C. Barker’s deposition continued.
Question by W. Paine, Jr. Did you prior to 1826 feel yourselfat lib­
erty to repeat the oaths ofmasonry to fcny but a mason?
Ans. I never thought of the subject before that time, nor then, but,
if the question had come under my consideration I should probably
have concluded they were not secrets.
Question by the same. Did you in the knight templar’s degree take
an obligation called the fifth libation, if so, is it not considered as a seal
to all your former obligations and the most binding oath administered
by the masonic institution.
Ans. I have referred to all the obligations that I have taken, and
they have been handed in to the committee. The obligation in the
knight templar’s degree has been handed to the committee.
Question by the same. Is there such an obligation administered in
the masonic institution as the fifth libation?
Ans. I have referred to all the obligations that I have taken in ma­
sonry, and they have all been handed to the committee.
Quest, by same. Is there in the cerenonies ofthe masonic institution
any oath, obligation or affirmation, called the fifth libation?
Ans. I have referred to every obligation that I know any thing about
in masonry, and they have all been handed in to the committee; as to
the ceremonies of freemasonry, I have nothing to say about them.
Quest, by same. Has there been a new oath instituted in the mason­
ic institution, which is used in conferring a check degree or pass word,
since the year 1826?
Ans. I have alluded to all the oaths in masonry that I know of, and
they have been handed to the committee. *
Quest, by same. Has there been to your-knowledge a degree, cheok
or pass word instituted in masonry since the year 1826?
Ans. I have nothing to say about the pass words.
Quest, by same. Do you know how many members have been initiat­
ed into the three masonic bodies to which you refer in your- deposition,^
and what is the charge for each degree; if so please state the number-
and price.
Ans. I should say generally I do not know; there are some facts en­
quired of that I do know: the price of initiation is twenty-four dollars
for the three first degrees, thirty dollars forthe four succeeding degrees,
and thirty dollars for the three next degrees. The price, as I have un­
derstood, is different in different places, and has varied in this town.
Quest, by same. If freemasonry is a charitable institution, why does
it refuse to admit those as members who are most likely to need the as­
sistance of their fellow-men—such <as are deformed or dismembered in
body, mud not of whole and entire limbs, as a man ought to be?^g[e
10S
Ans. I consider that as masons we have a right to make oar own role#
and regulations in all cases, provided they are not repugnant to law.
Quest, by G. W . Jackson. Do you consider yourself as bound by
your masonic obligations, or did you ever know any mason that did
consider himself as bound to render any pecuniary or other assistance
to a mason giving the sign of distress, without enquiring how he came in
such a situation?
Ans. I never did.
Quest, by Joseph S. Cooke. Do you know of any individual or fami­
ly of a diseased brother having received in charity lrcm the funds of any
masonic body, a greater sum than was paid in for his fees?
An3. I do, in a number of instances.
Quest, by Samson Almy. You say that you never knew an upright
adhering mason to consider his obligations as binding them to inflict any
punishment except expulsion from the lodge; did you ever know any
mason to consider them in any other light ? Ajis. I never did.
Quest, by John S. H arris. You say you have never received any in­
formation from lodges or masonic bodies of M organ’s death, have you
ever heard masonically or otherwise, that Morgan had written or was
about writing a book disclosing masonry, and that he had suffered either
by confinement or otherwise in consequence?
Ans. I have never heard masonically: I have heard such reports and
seen them'in the newspapers.
* Quest* by same. Did you ever yourself? as presiding officer of a
lodge, or know others in that capacity to inform the candidate, when ini­
tiated, the oath he was to take, or the substance of such oath, previous
to takingit ?
Ans. We inform them that they are to take an oath, and explain to
them that it will not interfere or conflict with their religious or political
opinions. * W m. C. B arker.
I Joseph S. Cooke, of Providence, merchant, before a committee appoint­
ed by the legislature of Rhode-Island to examine into the charges against
masons and masonry, on oath do testify and say:—That I am a freemason;
having taken eleven degrees, viz. entered apprentice, fellow craft and m
ai­
ler mason in Mount Vernon lodge in said Providence in the years 1312 and
13—mark master, past master, most excellent master, and royal arch inthe
royal arch chapter ms'aid Providence in 1819—royal master and select m
as­
ter in the council in Providence—knight of the red cross, knight templar and
knight ofMalta (the two latter as one degree) in St. John’s encampmentof
knight templars in Providence in 1826;—have served as master ofM
ount
Vernon lodge, and am at present grar.d master of the grade! lodge of tbi»
State. That there was an oath or obligation administered to me bn receiv­
ing each of these degrees, corresponding to the best of my knowledge and
belief, to those handed in to the committee and by them marked A, B andC,
—that I was told by the presiding officer previous to receiving the degrees,
that tfiere was nothing in the obligations which would interfere with m
yrelig­
ion or politics, my duty to God or my country, or words to that effect, and I
consider the penalties qualified thereby. I received a charge on receiving(lie
several degrees, as mentioned in Webb’s Monitor, which l fconsideied as ad­
vice given to me for the government of my conduct. I have not considered
that, in my obligations, I gave jurisdiction to the lodge or any other m
asonic
body, or my brethren, to execute upon me the penalties expressed in M
id
oaths severally, or that I, as a member was to share in the same power to
others. 1know of no secret by-laws in any lodge, chapter or eneampwwt.
Digitized by Google
109
1 do not consider any of my masenic obligations as incompatible with my re«
ltgious„ moral, social or civil obligations. 1 consider the objects of masonry
to be to diffuse light and knowledge to the craft,—to dispense charity, and is
defined in the first sentence in Webb’s Monitor on “speculative masonry” p.
47 of edition of 1821, based on “brotherly love, reliefand truth,” (see Webb’s
Monitor, page 38.) I never heard the subject of the nature and extent of
the penalties discussed in any lodge or other masonic body. I never heard
it asserted in any lodge or other masonic body that they had power to inflict
punishments for any 00*
6(106 other than expulsion, nor ever heard of any other
being inflicted by such bodies.
The principles of masonry forbid the discussion of religious or political sub­
jects in the lodge. I never knew any lodge or masonic body to combine or
take any measures to support a mason for any office. I never considered
that any thing in my obligations bouud me as a freeman, to vote for a mason
for office in preference to a better man, not a mason,—nor ever practised on
such a construction of them. I never considered that my obligations bound
me to favor a mason at the expense and to the injury of others of my fellow
citizens, nor ever practised upon such a construction of them. I never knew
any sign of a mason given in a court ofjustice, nor of anyjudge or other officer
practising uponsuch a construction ofthe obligations to defeatjustice. 1consid­
er my civil obligations paramount to my masonic, as in the charge to a master
elect of a lodge I “agree to be a peaceable subject and cheerfully to conform
to the laws of the country in which I reside;”—my moral, as in said charge
I “ agree to be a good man and true and strictly to obey the moral law.”
The expulsion of a member is communicated to grand lodges in correspond­
ence with the grand lodge of this state. I know of nocommunication receiv­
ed by any lodge, chapter or encampments from any bodies in New-York re­
specting the expulsion of any mason for having been concerned in theMorgan
affair, or heard of any such. A worthy mason can at all times be freely ad­
mitted in any lodge as a visitor. The grand lodge in their address to the
public have disapproved of the conduct of those concerned in the abduction of
Morgan. I do not know of any lodge having passed any vote on the subject.
I have never heard any mason “of respectable standing in society” or any
other one, to my knowledge, justify the murder of Morgan.
Question by John S. Harris. Was the words “of your duty to your God
and your country contained in the master’s assurance to you before your initia­
tion used, or only the words that the path would “not interfere with your pol­
itics or religion? Ans. I do not recollect.
Questions by Walter Paine, Jr. Do you consider that as a mason you
are under any obligation to answer a masonic sign that may be given you by
a stranger, or any person that is a mason?
Ans. I don’t know how far I should be bound. I never had any such
made to me, but if one should be made I should notice it of course, and should
act according to circumstances.
Qu. by do. Have you as grand master ofthe grand lodge of Rbode-Island
ever received any communication from masons in other States in relation to
the abduction or murder of Wm. Morgan, or any circumstances growing out
of that affair. Ans. I have not.
Qu. by do. Do you understand that the penalties ofmasonic oaths are in any
way binding upon those whohave taken them; if so, in what way?
Ans. The written deposition of W
*. C. Barker wherein he states in what
way he considers the penalties binding contain my views on this subject.
Question by the committee. Do you consider by the principles of the in-
Ititution, that you are to consider the claims of indigent brethren, or the fam­
ilies of such when they are deceased, as having a claim on your individual
charity, as well as on the funds of the lodge? ^ T
Digitized by V j O O Q I C
110
Abb. 1 do not consider they hare any claim at such, but I consider that
in dispensing mf charities I should give them a preference, from a feeling of
affection or brotherly love. J oseph S. C ooks.
I, Christian M. Neslell, ornamental painter and gilder, a resident of Provi­
dence, am a mason, and still adhere to masonry. 1have taken the following
regular degrees, viz.: entered apprentice, fellow craft, master mason, mark
master, past master, most excellent master, royal arch, royal master, select
master, super excellent master, knight of the red cross,knight of malta, and
knight templars of the order of St. John at Jerusalem. Also the following
which are called ineffable degrees, viz.: union master, Roman eagle, secret
master, three kings, knights of Jerico, knights of the Mediterranean pass,
knight templars, high priest, and others which names do not now occur to me.
In attaching myself to the masonic institution, and in the taking of the fore­
going degrees, I was previously impressed with a favorable opinion of the
institution; which impression led me, of my own free will and accord, to
solicit the recommendation of my friends to enable me to obtain them, i
never knew it to be the duty or practice of masons, to use any^ exertions
towards soliciting the accession of members. As a man and a mason I con­
sider my duties to my Creator paramount to all other duties; and I feel willing
to testify and declare in truth and sincerity under a solemn oath, that I have
never taken any oath or obligation, ttyat I consider can in any wise interfere or
conflict with the duty I owe my country. Neither has any of ray obligations
or promises made in masonry, ever given my brethren any right, or power, to
execute, or inflict any penalty upon me beyond expulsion. The invocation
attached to each degree I have always understood to be between my Creator
and myself, should I ever wilfully, or knowingly, disclose unlawfully the vital
secrets of freemasonry. The internal secret forms and ceremonies attached
to each degree, I view as a species of private property which I have justly
and lawfully purchased, and which I never will consent to yield up to any man,
or body of men, who are not as justly and lawfully entitled to the same as 1
am myself, even were my life and property to be the forfeiture. I consider
the prominent object offreemasonry is to promote the best interest of mankind.
Every mason is bound to alleviate the distress of all worthy brethren, no mat­
ter whether they originated in the immediate vicinity in which he resides, or
sprung from the remotest corners of the earth. I have been a mason eleven
years; have held an office in all the masonic bodies of this place, and have
served two years in the first office in the gift of the lodge in this town, during
which period I never knew a call for relief refused a worthy brother, his widow
or orphan. I am a permanent member of all the masonic bodies in this place,
except the grand chapter, and ofthat for the time being, by virtue ofan office
held in the subordinate chapter. And intaking the several degrees attached
to each body, I was distinctly informed previous to taking my obligations, thst
they were not to interfere with my religion, politics, or my allegiance to m
j
God or my country. I never was led, or influenced by them, to confer a favor
on a mason, to the injury of one who was not a mason. The moral precepts
which masonry inculcate, has been a great stimulus in teaching me to render
every man his just due without distinction. The secret forms and ceremonies
of each degree, with their true explanations, are calculated to fix and impress
the mind with correct principles of morality; they are also designed to unite
and conciliate true friendship among men, which friendship would never have
otherwise existed. We have secrets which our obligations bind us sacredly
to conceal; by them we are efiabled to distinguish true brethren from impost­
ers, and if we were not under these obligations to keep them from bad men,
they would soonbecome common and of nointrinsic value by their sobvershp.
pigitized by Google
I ll
I have never regretted the taking of the degrees, in masonry, and If there
were any more to be conferred, I should seek to obtain them. They hare
been the means of introducing me to many valuable friends, and the study of
each degree has had a tendency to strengthen and improve my memory, with
many other advantages, which has proved more than a remuneration of the
whole amount I ever paid to obtain them. As it regards my masonic ties to
those brethren who compose the masonic family, I am bound to them as far as
truth, honor and justice will warrant, and no farther. I am not to screen
them from the arm of law, cloak their iniquities, render them assistance to
the detriment ofmyself or family; nor am I to enter into plots or conspiracies
against the government of the conntry in which I live; but feel "myself bound
by the precepts of masonry, to be a peaceable quiet citizen of the place in
which i reside, and to patiently submit myself to the legal authority thereof.
I am ready to confess we have some immoral and disorderly members among
us; but I do know it to be the duty of each member of the body where such
belong to complain of them, and have them admonished and exhorted to refor­
mation; and should this gentle means fail, we then have recourse to expulsion,
and thus forever withdrawing from them our fellowship as masons. I consider it
my duty as a mason, to so live and conduct myselfas to avoid becoming a subject
of reproach; and use ray endeavors to preserve unsullied the reputation of the
institution, I hold myself not accountable for the depredations said to bo
committed on the body of William Morgan, by those who have passed through
our solemn ceremonies; if it be true that this outrage was committed by such,
and they bad become sowretchedly depraved as to trample on the laws of God
and man, they, and they alone, on proof ofguilt, are culpable; and agreeable
to the laws of our country, have forfeited their existence.
Question by Walter Paine, Jr. Have you not visited the lodges ip this
state since the year 1826, to give the check word or test oath?
Ans. I was appointed grand lecturer by tbe grand lodge for two years,
during which time it was my duty to visit the lodges; the duty which I bad to
perform was to lecture on the secrets of masonry; what those secrets were I
don’t feel it my duty to communicate.
Question by Walter Paine, Jr. Do you know when the check degree
originated, and for what purpose it was formed, and when it was received in
this state, and by whom? if so please state it.
Ans. I don’t know any thing about such a degree as the check degree.
C hristian M. N sstsll.
Providence, January 5th, 1832.
Moses Richardson, of Providence, on oath testifies as follows:
Questions by the committee. Are you a mason?
Ans, I am a mason.
Quest. Where did you receive the degrees.
Ans. I received the three first in Bristol lodge, Mass, more than thirty
years past-—
the four neit degrees in the Providence royal arch chapter I
think in 1802—and the degrees in the encampment in 1807, and tenor fifteen
degrees, called tbe ineffable degrees, from time to time since that period. I
have since presided in St. John’s lodge, Providence, and likewise in the Prov*
idence royal arch chapter in the years of 1815 to 1818: and in tbe year of
1821, having moved into the town of Attleborough, Mass. I was elected
master, or presidingofficer, ofBristol lodge for several years until I movedback
again to tbe town of Providence. I have served as secretary to St. John’s
lodge, the Providence royal chapter, the grand chapter, the council of royal
and select masters and the encampment in Providence; and am at present
treasurer of the grand encampment. I held each of these offices for several
Digitized by Google
118
years; and, fromall I bare experienced or beard, I believe that no masonic
body bare any private books or accounts. They are opeo to all, except some
idle and officious people, and we shall not gratify their idle curiosity by shew­
ing them. \
Quest. Did you distinctly hear the answers of Wm. Wilkinson during
bis examination before the committee?
Ans. I did, and think his answers substantially correct?
Quest. Have you heard of the report that a person was murdered by the
graud lodge of the State 01 Rhode-Island; and if so please state your knowl­
edge of the same?
Ans. I have seen a statement of Moses Thacher, said to bare been made
to his church and society, and at the Franklin Hall, Providence, at Faneuil
Hall, Boston; at Philadelphia and divers other places in and out of this State;
and I believe that no two of the statements are alike; and from all the evi­
dence before the public, and from all the statements I have heard, 1 believe I
the whole story to be false and without foundation. As 1 have been a tnem
- I
ber of the grand lodge for nearly twenty years, and never heard any thing
the subject in the time, I conclude it was got up by political antiniasons for
base purposes.
Quest. Have you ever heard any onejustify the murder of Wm. Morgan?
Ans. No I never have; but every mason that I have heard express his
opinion on the subject, condemns the transaction in the strongest possible terms.
Quest. Have you ever known any masonic body, say lodge, chapter or
encampment justify the Morgan transaction?
Ans. No, I have not; but directly to the reverse. Tbc antimasons Lave
repeatedly charged the masonic bodies with neglect, in their not disavowing
the act of abduction or probable murder of Wm. Morgan; and that the blood
of said Morgan rested on the head ofevery mason, in consequence of it beiig
supposed that his murderers were masons. But my opinion is that (he b.W
of Michael Servetius, murdered by John Calvin, rests upon the bead of every
orthodox Christian as justly as that of Win. Morgan does on masons; and I
cannot conceive what further disavowal was necessary, than that which was
made at the first news coming to our knowledge. 1 was a member ofthe gen­
eral grand chapter, which was in session in the city ofNew-York in Septem­
ber. 1326, when the news was received, that Wm. Morgan had been abduct­
ed; and the lamented De Witt Clinton, who presided at the meeting imme­
diately issued bis proclamation and offered fifteen hundred dollars reward for
the apprehension ofthe culprits, and it was published in the newspaper the next
day which was thought sufficient.
Quest. What connexion have the lodges with the graud lodge, the chapter
with grand chapter and encampment?
Ans. The grand lodges of the several states are composed of the three first
officers of the several lodges under their jurisdiction, for the time they bold
said office, together with all masters of lodges, and the four first officers of
the grand lodge and permanent members. The chapter and grand chapter
the same, and likewise the encampment. The grand lodge is the regulartri­
bunal, in case any misunderstanding between any of the subordinate lodges,
to hear and decide ou all matters appertaining thereto; and also in certain
cases, they are to decide between said lodges and their individual members;
god the several lodges pay two dollars on every new member they receive, for
ibe purpose of payiog the necessary expenses of the grand lodge. The grand
chapter is the same as the grand lodge, as respects (he jurisdiction of the
grand chapter over the chapters, and receives three dollars for every newad­
mitted member, likewise the encampment; and as anothersource of obtaining
resources they have from fifty to ninety dollars for every charter they grant
Digitized by Google
if*
tor ntw lodges, chapter* or eabappmoots; and the general grand chapteraw&
general grand encampment have the same power over the several state grand
chapters and state grand encampments, as the state grand chapter and state
grand encampments have over the several chapters and encampments in their
respective states.; and they Likewise have the privilege and power of granting
charters to chapters and encampments tnall states and territories, where there
has not a grand chapter or grand encampment already been instituted.
Quest. Have you ever known any one individual to receive more money
fromthe lodge or chapter as a donation, than the amount he had paidinto the
funds?
Ans. I have, and will name a few cases, one of which was a Mr. James
N. Newcomb, arrived at Providence in a vessel from the West Indies, who
had been sick for some time, and was sent to a miserable sailor boarding-
house, where he suffered. I was then master of St. John’s lodge; I found he
was a master mason: I agreed with Mr* Brown in North Providence to taka
good car* of him until he was restored to health,' say three or four months,
and the collector of the port paid two dollars per week; and several masons
paid considerable sums, and the lodges paid the balance offifty-seven dollars?
he was a stranger. Beveral widows and their children have received, from
time to time, three to five times the sum that their father or husband had ever
paid into the funds; and a great part of the donations that have been made
from the masonic bodies in Providence, have been paid to strangers that nev­
er paid any thing into the funds of said bodies. I never knew any calculation
made or question asked about the sum the applicant for charity had paid into
the funds, until I heard it from Moses Thacher and Walter- Paine, jr. one a
seceder and the other a furious political antimason, who have compared the
masonic institution to a mutual insurance company. St. John’s lodge, one of
the four masonic bodies in Providence, made donations to the amount of from
three to four hundred dollars in one year after the peace, at the close of the
last war, mostly to distressed masons, who had been prisoners, and on their
way home from the eastward to the south or from the south eastward.
Quest. Have you ever known the funds of the masonic bodies you belonged
to, squandered or misapplied?
. Ans. f have wot. I believe they have husbanded and taken as good care
of their funds as most individuals do of theirs. St. John’s lodge has been of
long standing, and have many old members that they help, and make a great
number of donations yearly to stangers; and they have now near four thou­
sand dollars in bank stock, and more than one thousand dollars inreal estate;
and 1 understand that Mount Vernon lodge and the Providence Royal Arch
chapter, each have nearly that amount, after making donations in proportion
to that of St. John’s lodge.
Quest. What construction do you put upon that part of your obligation
wherein you promise to assist masons in distrdfs, do you consider it in anj
way injurious tothe rest of the community?
Ans. I do not. Masons all pay their regular taxes for the support of the
poor generally; and I think they are as liberal as^any other class in making
donations to the indigent; and whatever donations they make to their breth*
ran has no sort of bearing on the rest of the community.
Quest. What construction do you put on the penalty of your obligations;
do yon consider that you give any mason or body of masons any power or au­
thority to inflict the punishment as has been represented?
Ans. No; and I do not believe any mason or seceding mason, if he would
give a fair answer, would so construe his obligations. Moses Thacher talks
much about tbe literal construction, and likewise Hallett, Paine, Harris and
many others, political antimasoas. The only construction that I put uponthe
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
penalty, tod what I htTt always first the candidate when I presided in the
lodgeor chapter, was after firing the obligations, I rehearsed the virtue of
fortitude as laid down in Webb’s Monitor, viz. fortitude is that noble and
steady purpose of the mind whereby we are enabled to undergo any pain, peril
or danger, when prudentially deemedexpedient; this virtue is equally distant
fromrashness or eowardice, and should be deeply impressed on the mind of
every mason as a safeguard or security against any illegal attack that may
he made by force or otherwise to extort from himany of those secrets with
which he has been intrusted—we say, binding ourselves under no less penalty
than that, and rather than reveal the secrets of*masonry unlawfully, viz, that
father or sooner than we would reveal them by any threats that B. F. Hal*
fett, John Harris, or Walter £aiue, jr. could make, or even the holy courts
of Spain, we would have ourselves suffer as is laid down as the penalty of osr
obligation: but not as the seceders or antimasons would have it, that after we
bad violated our trust we would suffer thus and so for £ breach of that trust
But that we would rathe'r or sooner submit to the penalty than be gnifcy offor*
feiting our honor or trust; and there cannot be a possible doubt but that ii
the fair construction meant originally; and I never had the proof so forcibly
impressed on my mind as when the examination was progressing. Walter
Paine, jr. threatened myselfin this manner:—‘Before we get through wt w
ill
screwit out of you;’ at other times, ‘we will pump it out of you;’ and I have so
doubt that if he, the said Paine Sc Co. had the power, the thumb screws would
be introduced, that being, as Moses Thacher would say, the only literal con­
struction that I can put upon his and their threats*
Ques. What evidence have you.that the masonic institution is ancient!
Ans. I have the strongest reasons to believe it to be very ancient fromovr
traditional accounts; and we as masons consider the traditional history to be
tbe most important and satisfactory. However we have other accounts that
can be relied on as much as any historical account, and I now refer to a work
said to have been printed in England, A. D. 1788, viz: by William Preston,
past master of the lodge of Antiquity, acting by Immemorial constitution, the
tenth London edition. We here have it that masonry flourished in England
under tbe Romans. Previous to that time the history ofmasonry in England
is so mixed with fable, asnot to affordany satisfactory account of tbe customs,
or of masonry, but on the Romans coming to Britain arts and sciences began U
flourish, and accordingly civilization and masonry rose into esteem, and Cesar
and several of the Roman generals who succeeded him in the government of
this island ranked as patrons and protectors of the craft. The wars which
afterwards broke out between the conquerors and conquered, obstructed its
progress ip Britain, and it continued in a low state till tbe time of emperer
Carausius, by whom it was revived under bis own immediate inspection, sod
he employed St. Alban to assist him, and for his faithful services made him
steward of his household and 4Kefruler of the realm, in the year A. D. SOS.
After tbe death of St. Alban, under the care of St. Austin, king Alfred tad
Atheistsne, also under the knight templars, masonry made but a slowprogress
and was very mnch neglected until the year 557, when it began to flourish.
A number of brethren arrived from France in 680 formed a new lodge under
the direction of Bennett Abbott of Wirral, who was soon after appointed ia-
spectorof the lodge and general superintendent of masons; and masonry grad­
ually improved till tbe reign of Alfred, A. D. 872, when in tbe person ofthat
prince masonry found a zealous protector. Masonry has generally kept
place with the progress of learning and flourished under Alfred; no prices
studied more to improve ami polish the understanding of his subjects than Al­
fred, and no one ever proved abetter friend,to masonry. On tbe death ofA
W
fred in the year 900, Edward succeeded to the throne, during whoa* ^Hg*
Digitized by Google
115
’tl* mason* *continued aider the saaeiioa of Ethrad, his sisters husband,
aad Etbelward bis brother, to whofotbe care of the fraternity was intrusted;
Kthehvard was a prince ofgreat learning and patronized masonry. Edward
died 924, wbea Atheistane his son succeeded him, who appointed bis brother
Edwin patron of the masons; this prince procured a charter from bis brother
empowering them to meet annually in communication at York, when the first
grand lodge of England was formed in 926 at which Edward presided as
grand master. Here many old writings were produced in greek, latin and
other languages, from which the constitution of the English lodges are orig­
inally derived.
The activity and noble conduct of Edwin qualified him in every respect to
preside over so celebrated a body of men as the masons; and after his death
Atheistane undertook in person the government of the lodges, and peace and
harmony was propagated under his administration. Under the reign of Ed­
gar, fromthe year 960 to his death and nearly fiftyyears afterwards, masonry
remained in a low state until the year 1041, it revived under the patronage
of Edward the Confessor; and William the conqueror having acquired the
crown of England in 1066, he appointed Gundolph, bishop of Rochester, and
Montgomery, earl of Shrewsbury, joint patrons of the masons, who at this
time excelled in both civil and military architecture. In the year 1087, Hetf-
ry the first came to the throne. The Marquis, of Pembroke presided over the
lodges during the reign of Stephen in 1135; he continued during the reign of
Henry 2d, the grand master of the knight templars superintended the frater­
nity. Masonry continued under the patronage of this order till the year 1199,
when John succeeded his brother, and masonry flourished under several grand-
masters, for seventy years, when Edward the 1st came to the thrbne in the
year 1272, when Walter Gifford, archbishop of York, was grand master. In
*1307 Walter Stapleton was appointed grand master.
Masonry flourished in England during the reign of Edward 3d, who becam*
the patron of science and the encourager oflearning; be applied with assiduity
to the constitution of the order, revised and improved the ancient charges, and
added several useful regulations to the original code of laws; he patronised
the lodges in person, and as the lodges became very numerous, he appointed
five deputies under him to inspect the proceedings of the fraternity; at this
period th? order ofthe Garter was.instituted at Windsor. In 1377 Richard
Jddsucceeded Edward 3d, anrd William Wykham was continued grand master
of the masonic lodges. In 1422 Henry the 6tb succeeded tothe throne, who
was a minor. At this time the bishop of Winchester having great influence,
caused an act of Parliament to be passed against chapters and lodges, niote
particularly chapters; and the law provided that every individual who should
assemble at any lodge or chapter should be judged a felon, and be imprisoned
and fined and otherwise punished at the king’s will. But fortunately for the
masons at this juncture, the Duke of Gloucester having the authority and
execution of the laws, and knowingthem to be innocent ofthe charges prefer­
red against them by the duke of Winchester, gave them all the protection add
•encouragement in his power. However the duke of Winchester continued
his persecutions, and finally managed to have the duke of Gloucester murder­
ed; whose death was universally lamented through the Kingdom.
The duke of Winchester dying, masonry began to flourish; and in 1442
king Henry was initiated, and often presided himself and nominated William
Wanefleet grand master, the king giving them every encouragement, the fra­
ternity were much benefited by bis council, advice and assistance. Masonfy
continued to flourish until queen Elizabeth came to the throne; she hearing
that masons were in possession of secrets which they wouldnot reveal, she sent
an armed force to York, with intent to break upthe setting of the annv&lgrand
Digitized by Google
• 116
in 1563. But sir Thomas Sftckville, who vm§ grind mater, initiated
the chief officer, and they returned; made a favorable report, and the queea
countermanded her orders, and let masons manage their affairs in their ow
n
way. And through the different stages of kings and grand masters inEngland, (
masonry continued about the same, until George 1st came to the throne; sad i
from a circumstance that happened about this time, say 1717, the political i
antimasonic gentlemen, with that prodigy of knowledge and learnmg, M
oses
Thatcher, have discovered that at this time masonry took its origin, and the
institution is modern. Be it so;, masons know it to be a good institution!
whether ancient or modern, and are satisfied with it, and ofcourse consider it
as a matter of nd consequence to the political antiimasons of whit date it
start from.
Intg. You say you know it to be a good institution?
^ Ans. I do; although Moses Tbacher and others tell me that I an de­
ceived—that my judgment is incorrect. ,1 am of the opinion that ifI could
not: depend on my ownjudgment as to its merits, l could rely on thejudgm
ent
of others better informed than the present political antimasonic faction;—
sty
Gen. Warren, who fell at the battle of Bunker Hill—every major general »
the army of the revolution (except Arnold the traitor)—with all those w
o
r­
thies who signed the declaration of independence, except four—all the presi­
dents of the United States, except two;—and to*bring it near home, lookat
the past grand masters of the grand lodge of Rhode-island—Moses Stibai,
Governor and CoL Boweii, Webb, Wilkinson, CarHle, Anthony, G
ritm
ell,
Merry and Cooke; then the lodges and chapter in Providence: Say clergy-
. men, Bishop Griswold, Rev. Dr. Gano, Blake, Taft, Pickering, Pipon, Ham
­
ilton, Osborn, Sias, and many others, their names not recollected at thistim
e.
I ask can any person of common understanding without wickedness in bis
heart, say that all those men would have patronised the institution of tnasos*
ry unless it was one of the best under heaven except the Christian religion.
Then take a look at the leading and most officious political antimasoni,
They are anti to every thing that is charitable, friendly, social, instructiveor
beneficial to the community.
Then look at the proof produced against masonry for an alleged m
urder
from fourteen to seventeen years past. One witness heard that a m
anin
Cumberland had a shirt washed about twenty-six years ago that wasbloody;
and that pious elder Potter, saw a part of a letter from Maine orNet*
Hampshire, from nobody knows who, inquiring what news about thegrind
lodge murder; and that he had frequently informed his friends of the im
por­
tant information he had read in that letter; and on cross examination dodit-
ed he did not believe it himself. This is the kind of evidence produced%
antimasons and these guardians of the people’s rights do it all for tbt p
u
b
lic
good. How generous! How disinterested!
Another circumstance of late date may have some bearing how othershaw
.valued the institution. The late Isaiah Thomas of Worcester, past grand
master of the grand lodge of Massachusetts, in his will made handsomedi-
nations to four masonic bodies; and still later, Stephen Girard ofPhiladel­
phia left the grand lodge twenty thousand dollars; and one case moreand I
will close this answer, viz. twelve hundred masons in and near Boston 11«
declared that they still are adhering masons, and that they consider itjfgta)
institution; and I challenge the whole antimasonic faction to produce tmafo
hundred of their creed, of the weight of character and standing as thornHk
signed the statement.
Question by Walter Paine, Jr. Was the person who brought Iba newtif
Morgan’s abduction to the city of New-York while the ge neral grand chap­
ter was in session, a mason; if so, was the news-considered official bjT
lh |
chapter, and what were the doings in relation to the affair ?
Digitized by Google 1
An*. • I tfo not know. I presume be was. I cannot tell whether it was
considered official. I saw the young' man that brought the news and the offer
of the reward that I have stated is all that I know about it.
Ques. by do. Was you in the masonic meeting which adopted and pub­
lished an address by the people of Rhode-Island, signed by Joseph S. Cooke
and others? Ans. I was.
Question by Sampson Almy. What was the name of the young man wh*
brought the information? Ans. I do not know.
Quest* by do. Would you rather than renounce masonry suffer the pen­
alties annexed to your obligation?
/ftis. Yes, I would suffer all the punishment the lodge could inflict, viz.
expulsion*
Quest, by John S. Harris. Was the check degree and test oath commu­
nicated to the Rhode-Island delegation in the genera] grand encampment or
general grand chapter in New-York, or at any other place at that time, in
that State or city, to be engrafted in Rhode-Island masonry as a necessary
guard in consequence of the Morgan difficulties?
Ans. I never heard any thingof this in New-York neither do I know any
thing about a check degree.
Intg. Is there any thing in freemasonry that is designeefto give a differ­
ent construction to the obligations than that which you have given; and if so,
has it ever had its effect to give to them a different construction by you?
Ans. No. I have no knowledge of any such thing, and refer you to my
statement heretofore.
Intg. by George W. Jackson. Would not masons who were concerned in
the abduction and murder of W
m
*. Morgan of New-York, and who have not
as yet been expelled from the masonic institution be received in full commun­
ion by the lodges in this State?
Ans. I think it a very extraordinary qaestion. If we knew them to be
the murderers of Wm. Morgan or any one else, instead of receiving them in­
to communion we would seize them and carry them to the proper place for
trial; or if we knew them to have had any concern in k we should do the same
— that is, I would, and presume all good masons would.
Intg. by Walter Paine, Jr. Should Eli Bruce, James Gamson, Burraga
Smith, and Loter Lawson apply to your lodge and give the requisite signs
shouldyou admit them?
Ans. I do not know any thing about the names or men, and of course do
not know whether they were concerned or not; if Mr. Paine knows he can
answer for himself; In the last question my answer covers this fully.
Intg. by do. Is the history of freemasonry which you have given in your
deposition, sacred, profane or masonic history?
Ans. I take it that it would be called profane history. It does not pur­
port to be sacred history.
Intg. by Geo. W. Jackson. Have you ever kndwn or heard the penalties
attached to the masonic obligation inflicted in the highest degrees upon de­
linquent masons?
Ans. It is an impertinent question. I never knew of any other penalties
being inflicted than ttyat contained in the 15th article of the bye-laws of St.
John's lodge, arid don't believe there is any one that does know of any other;
and that is expulsion.
Intg. by S. Almy. What is the object of the oaths and obligations taken
by mason?
Ans: To keep such fellows as you are out of the lodge. I have already
answered this question when I said what construction I put upon my obliga­
tion-
Digitized by Google
Intg. by t\ S. Harris. Where did you get the information tEat all the
aigners of the declaration ofindependence, except foftr, and all the major gen*
eraIs of Uie revolution except Benedict Arnold were masons, and also which
two of the presidents were not masons?
Ans. I take it from historical accounts, and if any gentlemen wishes the
proof I can shew it.
^ Intg. by B. Cranston. Do you know the time when Elder Cheeny and
Rev. Moses Thacher took the degrees in the chapter; if so, when was it?
Ans; I cannot state the precise time. It was, I think, in the winter of
1828—early in that year. M oses R ichardson.
Testimony of Peter Grinnell, of Providence, sworn by committee. Pre­
vious to my receiving the degrees of ffeemasonry, I was informed that nothing
was contained in the obligations that would affect my religious or political
principles. Relying on this declaration I agreed to receive them; I agreed
to keep a brother’s secrets as my own, murder and treason excepted; m
inor
crimes were not excepted; yet should a brother communicate to me a secret
wherein he disclosed that he had committed or intended to commit any crim­
inal or immoral act, 1 should consider that suchdisclosure would not be binding
on me, because it would be in direct violation of my religious, political and
moral principles. Instead of keeping such a secret, I should consider himas
an unworthy brother, and feel it my duty as a good citizen and as a mason, to
complain of him to the lodge, and have him expelled as unworthy any longer
to receive any of the benefits of the institution. As it regards the penalties
attached to the obligations for violating masonic secrets, or for publicly dis­
closing any of the transactions of the lodge ta its injury or that of its members.
I consider they would subject him to no further punishment than that of ex­
pulsion, agreeable to the by-laws. I have never known or beard of any other
penalty inflicted by the lodge on any of its member? for any violations of
masonic duty that may have been committed; and never considered that I
gave the lodge power and authority to inflict punishment in the manner ex­
pressed in the penalties attached to the obligations, or that I had'the author­
ity to inflict the punishment on others.
Question by committee. Did you hear the depositions of William Wilkio-
90Q, William C. Barker, Moses Richardson, Joseph S. Cook, Christian M.
Nestell, and Barzillia Cranston; and if so, were they substantially correct as
far as the facts attested to have come to your knowledge?
Ans. They were truly so, as far as I have had any knowledge of the
subjects to which they refer.
■Question by J. S. Harris. Did you ever yourself as presiding officer of i
lodge, or have you known others in that capacity, to inform the candidate
when initiated what was the oath he was about to take or the substance of
such oath, previous to his taking it?
Ans.* The words ofthe oath were not repeated before it was administered,
but the explanation was given of its nature, which I have referred to.
P e t e r Grjsthell.
Philip Allen, of Providence, Rhode Island. &c. manufacturer, says in
answer to the general interrogatories marked D.
. Ans. to 1st. J am a freemason; I have taken the degrees in masonry up
to the degree of royal arch, inclusive; I was initiated in St. John’s lodge, in
Providence, in 1808 or 7. I think I have not been in a lodge more than once
for twenty years.
Please to state what you consider to be the object ofmasonry, and whether
it has to your knowledge bee# used for political purposes.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
US
£k*re always understood masdnry lobe a charitable institution; (Ms insti­
tution has not to my knowledge been used for political purposes.' I bare not
been engaged bat very little in politics, and know but very little about it.
Ans. to 101b. I did not consider that I gave the lodge any such jurisdic­
tion^ or that the life of any member ofthe lodge was thereby placed under my
control.
Was there any thing in the masonic secrets which could affect the rights or
interests of any person not a mason? *
Ans. So far as my recollection serves me, I did uot consider that there
was.
Ans. to 14th. I did not, as I recollect, consider any thing in said oaths
incompatible with my religious, moral, social or civil obligations. I considered
that after 1 bad become a member of the lodge, I had a right to act in the
same way as before I was a member. Philip Allen.
Roger Williams Potter, affirmed. I belong in Providence, am a merchant.
I have taken the following degrees in masonry: entered apprentice, fellow
craft, master mason, mark master, past master, most excellent master, royal
arch, royal master, select master, super excellent master, with many ineffable
degrees, many of which I do not now recollect. I have heard the deposition *
of G. M. Nes|ell read, and consider the Explanation there given of the above
degrees, and the obligations pertaining to them, correct. The above degrees
werje all taken in Providence, 1 took the iirst degree in 1815. I have visited
different parts of the United States, and always understood that masonry was
considered in other places as it was considered here.
Roger W. Potter.
I, Thomas Seekell, of Providence, in the state of Rhode Island, testify and
say, that I have been a member of the masonic fraternity about ten years;
that I have received the three first degrees; that I have usually been in the
habit of attending the meetings of Mount Vernon lodge, of which I am a
member; that I have seen the degrees conferred upon several candidates; that
previous to administering the oaths, the master, or presiding officer, has inva­
riably explained to the candidate the nature of the oaths then about to be
administered, stating (hat the obligation thee about to be imposed, would not
interfere with the duty (hey owed to their God or country; that the obligation
would not in any way interfere with religious or political opinion; that in the
charge subsequently delivered to tbe candidates they are requested to be true
to their country and just to their government under which they may lire; that
I have never known the application of a widow’s family, or worthy mason in
distress, for charity rejected; that 1 have known the funds of the lodge liber­
ally disposed for charitable purposes; that I have visited several ledges in this
state and in the state of Georgia, and have never known any discussion or
proceeding in any way or manner, th$t would have the most remote bearing to
politics; that in addition to the appropriations made by the lodges for char*
table purposes, a committee of charity has been appointed till within a few
years, to solicit donations from individual masons, which sums have been applied
by said committee to such families as are in distress, who had a claim upon
masonic charity; that 1 have ever considered that the only penalty that might
be inflicted upon an unworthy mason, was advice, admonition and expulsion;,
that I havenever considered that by the terms ofthe oath I have ever conferred
open any one the right te take toy life) or that that right was conferred upon
me relative to others, and that the oaths as submitted to the committee arey -
agreeably to tbe best of my recollection in the precise words as I received
Ibem^and hate know* them to be administered to otbers. 4
Digitized by fo o z le
ISO
Quest, by J. S. Harris. Are you sure that the words “ not to interfere
with your duty to your God or your country,” were contained in the master’s
assurance to the candidate on his initiation, or is it only that the oath he is
about to take will not interfere with his politics or religion?
Ans. I am not positive about the precise words, but the explanation was to
that amount and import.
Qnest. by Geo. Wilkinson. Did you, after hearing that Morgan was car*
ried off and probably murdered, say that he was served just right ?
Ans. I never did. T homas Seek ell.
John Wilder sworn. I belong in Providence, and am an innholder; I an
a mason, and have taken something like sixteen degrees, but have attended so
little to masonry of late, that I cannot name them all.
Quest by B. Cranston. Will you give your views of the masonic instilo*
tion and of the obligations? Ans. I will.
Quest, by same. Have you heard the depositions that have been given in?
Ans. I have heard some of them, I believe all that have been given to-day.
My own opinion of the institution is, that it is the best moral institution under
heaven, second to none but the Christian religion. As it regards the obliga-
0 tions, I consider they have been correctly stated and explained by the witness­
es who have testified to-day, and should willingly subscribe to what they at­
tested to concerning them; and as far as my knowledge extends, the other tes»
iimony given in to-day by adhering masons is correct. John Wilber.
Luther Woodward, sworn. I reside in North-Providence, by professios
an iron master. I am a mason, and have taken twelve regular degrees up to
the order of knight templar inclusive.
Questions by committee. Have you heard the depositions tbat have bees
taken to-day?
Ans. I have heard several of them—all since that of Mr. Joseph S.
Cooke, viz. Messrs. Moses Richardson, Christian M’Nestell, Thomas See-
kell and Peter Grinncll.
Quest. Are the statements contained in the depositions you have bean),
•o far as your knowledge extends of masonry, correct?
Ans. They are. Their exposition of the nature of masonic obligations
are as I have understood and considered them. I would further state that I
think the society of freemasons as it is practised in all masonic lodges that 1
have ever visited tends directly to improve the morals of its members.
Quest, by J. S. Harris. Da you know any individual mason in this State
0r otherwhere, that subscribed money to carry on the election in Bristol dis­
trict in Mass, in favor of Mr. Hodges? Ans. I do not.
Quest, by do. Do you consider that the oaths and obligations improves
the morals; or what part of masonry is it?
Ans. I consider its principles tend, directly to that end, and tbat takes
collectively it has that effect. L uther W oodwarb.
WtUiam Russell of Providence, Rbode-Island, merchant, sworn, says, I
am a royal arch mason, and was initiated I think in the year 1808, in Mount
Vernon lodge in Providence.
Quest, by request. Please to state minutely the circumstances attending
your capture during the late war?
Ans. I never was captured. I thinkjn the year 1810 or 11, during the
operation of the Burlan and Milan decrees, 1 was the master of the ship Mary
Ann, of Providence, I was bound from Virginia for Cowes, and a market; 1
had fictitious papers, by which it appeared tbat I waa bound for TaRMpr,
Digitized by Google
and B
Operson on board knew where I was.beund, or of mygeftpine papers':
if my genuine papers bad been known, the ship under the Berlin and Milan
decrees would have been made a prize. I fell in with a French privateer of
2Q guns, and nay boats having been stove, I went on board in my large boat,
and my officers and crew were examined) but they knew nothing of my real
papers. ^fter my papers had been examined, the master of the privateer ex­
pressed himself satisfied and returned my papers to me; and I then asked him
if he was in want of anything; to which he replied that be would take nothing
-from me,, but wopld thank me for a few newspapers. He then observed that
ha feared that my boat was stove, but would put me on board in his boat.
During the time the crew were getting out his boat, he called for some wine,
as was the custom at sea, and in drinking a glass of wine he recognized raq
-as a mason, and I did him. After this I returned on board my ship, and found
that the crew of the French privateer had plundered me of every moveable
article of value; I told the officer that the captain said that, he would take
nothing from me; this made no difference; they took my property and left the
ship, and I tbep proceeded on the voyage. I received no favor from the cap­
tain of said privateer in consequence ofhis being a mason.
Ques. by request. Have you ever alluded to this circumstance as a proof
that masonry was a good institution?
Ans. I do not recollect that I have. I have frequently stated that I con­
sidered it a good institution, from the circumstance that 1 gould meet a friend
at sea that I could recognize. I have found it to be a good institution, for
in consequence of this institution I have found masonic friends in different
parts of the world. When I went to sea I visited lodges in Europe, Asia,
Africa and America, and have visited some lodges where I could not under­
stand a word that was said. Since I left offgoing to sea, which is about ten
years ago, I have not frequented the lodges.
In answer to a question. The signs, ceremonies, and inodes of working,
are similar in all the lodges which I haye visited. I never was at the initia­
tion of a candidate in a lodge in a foreign country.
In answer to a question by the committee, t never have considered any
of my masonic obligations incompatible with my moral, religious, social, or civd
'obligations, or my duty to thy God or my country.
Answer to 10th interrogatory on paper marked D. I never considered
•that my masonic obligations gave anyjurisdiction to the lodge or to masons to
take my life for violating said obligations; I did not consider that I as a mason
had any such jurisdiction over the lives of others. I never heard masons
construe masonic obligations to authorize them to take life for the violation of
said obligations.
In answer to the interrogatories on paper marked E, I say
Ans. to No. 1. I never saw any masonic oath in writing or in print. I
never heard such expression administered.
Ans. to Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5. I do not recollect these expressions. The
master mason’s obligation now read to me from paper marked A, is substan­
tially the same which I received and which I have heard administered, to the
best of my recollection.
The royal arch mason’s obligation read to me from paper marked B, is
substantially the same obligation which I took, and which I have heard
administered. I do not recollect any of the variations or additions now read
to me from paper marked E. W illiam R u s s e l l :
I, Nathan M. Wheaton, of Warren, in the county of Bristol, in the state
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, engaged according to law, do
testify and say, in a^wer to the interrogatories on paper marked D.
Digitized by Google
12*
Ans. to 1at interrogatory. I a n a freemason^ and Lava taken seven de­
grees in masonry, up to the degree ofroyal arch mason, inclusive. I took the
three first degrees in Washington lodge No. 3, in said Warren, and the four
other degrees in temple chapter, N o/3, in said Warren. I was initiated,
passed and raised, in December^A. D. 1807; and I received the three higher
degrees in March, A. D. 1814; and was exalted to the royal arch degree in
May, A. D. 1814.
Ans. to 2d. There was.
Ans. to 3d. On my initiation before taking the oath, the master of the
lodge said to me, “ I can assure you that there is nothing inmasonry contrary
to law, religion, or the allegiance you owe to your country.” And under this
assurance I took the several obligations.
Ans. to 4th. The master mason’s obligation and the royal arch mason’s
obligation, now read to me from papers marked A and B, are substantially
the same obligations which were administered to me, and are the same obli­
gations which I have heard administered toother persons. 1 never knew the
lodge to refuse to administer the affirmative, and never knew a candidate to
express a wish to affirm instead of swear. The lodge would give the affirma­
tion instead of the oath if it were wished by the candidate, I presume. My
construction ofthe masonic obligations is and ever, has been, that the candi­
date taking the obligation promises to suffer from the enemies of masonry
persecution or injury, ^even to the extent of the penalty of these obligations,
sooner than betray or divulge the secrets of the fraternity. I* never under­
stood that masons, or any body ofmasons, had the power to infliet the penal­
ties mentioned in the masonic obligations, for a violation of said obligations;
and I never suspected that any masons or body ofmasons, were weak enough
to believe that they had a right to inflict said penalties.
Ans. to 3th. At my initiation into each degree a charge was given to me
by the presiding officer. I am not certain whether the charges in the three
first degrees were read to me from Webb’s monitor, or from the book of con­
stitutions; the charges in the four higher degrees were read to me from
Webb’s monitor. Webb’s monitor is generally used in our lodge. It is the
uniform practice for the presiding officer in our lodge to read the charge to the
candidate on taking each degree, and I do not recollect its ever being omitted.
I consider these charges to be explanatory of the masonic obligations and
principles of masonry, and equally as binding as said obligations. Thest
charges are so considered among masons, sofar as my knowledge extends.
Ans. to 6th. I did not,
Ans. to 7th. I did.
Ans. to 8tb. I thought that I understood said oaths at the time; I never
had any doubts about them.
Ans. to 10th. I consider that I have before answered this interrogatory.
I by no means considered that I gave any suchjurisdiction, or that I was to
shar6 in any such jurisdiction over others., I always considered that the lodge
or chapter could not inflict any higher punishment than expulsion, in any case
whatever.
Ans. to 11th. I consider the secrets of masonry to be the ceremonies of
initiation into each degree, the signs ofrecognition, and modes of working. I
know of no other secrets in masonry, and I know nothing of Bernard’s light on
masonry, or Allyn’s ritual.
Ans. to 12th. Those of our lodge are not; they are written in our book of
record. I know of no secret by-laws, or book containing secrets.
Ans. to 13th. I do not.
Ans. to 14th. I did not.
Ans. to 13th. I am an adhering mason'.
Digitized by Google
133
Ana. to 16th. I never did.
An*, to 17th. I never did.
Ana. to !8th. They do.
Ana. to 19th. I never did.
Ana. to 20th. In answer to first part I did not. If I had a vote to give
or a favor to confer under the circumstances stated in the last part of this
interrogatory, the fact of one of the person’s being a mason would have no
influence on my determination.
Ans. to 21st. I did not believe any such thing, and 1 never practised upon
any such construetion of my masonic obligation*.
Ans. to 22d. I never did.
Ans. to 23d, In such a case I should have obeyed my religious, moral and
social obligations, without hesitation.
Ans. to 24th. I have always considered masonry to be a moral, social and
charitable institution.
Ans. to 25th. I never visited but one lodge out of this state/ I once vis*
ited a lodge in the state of Massachusetts, and their mode ofworking was the
same as in lodges in this state.
Ans. to 26th. The graud chapters of several states have by delegates
formed a*masonic body called the general grand chapter of the United States,
Sind the presiding officer of this masonic body is called the general grand high
priest. This masonic body has no jurisdiction over the masters’ lodges or
grand lodges of any of the states I know of no connexion between any
masonic bodies in the United States and any masonic bodies in Europe. I
do not know at what time or in what country the higher degrees in masonry
originated, or when they were introduced into this country, or when into this
state.
Ans. to 27tb. It has been the custom of our lodge to give notice to the
grand lodge of this state only, of the expulsion of members.
Ans. to 28th. I knowof no such communications.
I do not recollect of any such case.
There has been no such communication received to roy
Ans. to 29th.
Ans. to 30tb.
knowledge.
Ans. to 31st. To the first part of the interrogatory I answer such is the
visage. To the last part of this interrogatory I answer that I never have
known such a case.
Ans. to 32d. I do not know that any lodge in this state has passed a vote
on this subject.
Ans. to 33d. I never have.
Ans. to 35th. The lodges in this state pay to the grand lodge two dollars
for the initiation of every candidate, except such as are initiated gratuitously,
tke grand lodge having no other means of raising funds to defray their neces­
sary expenses. The several chapters and lodges under itsjurisdiction pay to
the grand chapter one dollar for every candidate advanced to the degree of
mark master, and two dollars for every candidate exalted to the degree of
royal arch mason, except when the degrees are coufrrred gratuitously, by
which means the grand chapter is enabled to defray their necessary expenses.
Ans. to 36th. I know ofno sign given by masonson entering or leaving a
lodge or chapter, in any way recognizing or indicating any authority iu such
lodge or chapter, to inflict the penalties of obligations administered by them
in any of the degrees of masonry.
Ans. to 37th. I know of no reason for such distinctions among masons,
but the natural propensity of mankind for novelty and variety, which is to be
seen in almost every association io life.
Quest. Have you, or lias your lodge, or any other lodge, chapter or
Digitized by Google
124
encampment, to your knowledge, had or held any communication, fornrttl or
informal, with any lodge, chapter, or encampment in any other state, upon the
subject of antimasonic persecution.
Ans. 1 have no knowledge of any such communication.
In answer to interrogatories on paper marked E, 1 say,
Ans. to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. I know of no other forms of
masonic obligations used in lodges and chapters, than those which'bare been
handed by the officers of the grand lodge in this state, to the committee ap­
pointed by the General Assembly to investigate the charges against masonry,
and which obligations 1 have carefully read and examined.
N. M . W h ea t o n .
I, Paschal Allen, of Warren, in the county of Bristol, in the State *)f
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, engaged according to law, do tes­
tify and say,f
c
i« answer to the interrogatories on paper marked D.
Ans. to 1st. I am a freemason and have taken seven degrees in masonry
up to the degree of royal arch mason inclusive. I took the three first degrees
in Washington Lodge, No. 3, in said Warren, and the four other degrees in
Providence chapter, No. 1, in Providence, R. I. I was initiated in Decem­
ber, 1805, passed January, 1806, and raised in March following. #I received
the three higher degrees and was exalted to the royal arch degree in Aprils
1807.
Ans. to 2d. There was.
Ans. to 3d. On my initiation, before taking the oath, the master of the
lodge assured me that there was nothing in masonry contrary to law, religion,
or the obligation that I owed to my country; and under that impression 1
took the several obligations.
Ans. to 4th. The master mason’s and royal arch obligations on papers
marked A and B, are substantially the same which were administered to me,
and are the same obligations which 1 have heard administered to all others. 1
know of no instance wherein the lodge or chapter refused to administer the
affirmation, and have never known a candidate to express a desire to affirmin
lieu ofswear. Without doubt the lodge or chapter would give the affirmation
instead of the oath, if desired by the candidate. 1 have ever considered the
meaning of the several obligations to be, that the candidate taking the same
promised to suffer from the enemies of masonry, persecution, &c. to the extent
ofthe penalty ofthe obligations, sooner than divulge the secrets of masonry. I
never presumed or believed that a mason, lodge or chapter had the power to
inflict the penalties, as set forth in the masonic obligations, for a violation of
the same; and I never imagined that any mason or body of masons believed
such an outrage to common sense.
Ans. to 5th. Charges were given me by the presiding officer at my initia­
tion into each degree; they were read to me from Webb’s Monitor, which is
used in our lodge and chapter. It is the uniform practice for the presiding
officer of each institution to read the charge to the candidate on taking each
degree. I recollect of no instances of its ever having been omitted. I con­
sider the charges explanatory of the obligations and principles of masonry, and
equally binding as said obligations. These charges I have understood are so
considered amdng all masons.
Ans. to 6th. I did not.
Ans. to 7th. I did.
Ans. to 8th and 9th. I understood the oaths when administered andnever
have had any doubts about them since.
Ans. to 10th.. It was nol my understanding either directlyor indirectly;, I
always was confident, that the lodge or chapter could not inflict any higher
punishment than expulsion in any possible case imaginable.
Digitized by Google
125
Ans. to l 1th. I understand the secrets ofmasonry to be tbeoeremomes of
initiation into the several degrees, the signs of recognition and methods -of
working. I know of no other masonic secrets, and knownothing of Bernard’s
light on masonry or AJlyn’s ritual.
Ana. to 12th. Those ofthe lodge to which I belong are not, but are writ­
ten in a book of records. I know of no book containing secrets, nor any se­
cret by-laws, either written or printed.
Ans. to I3tb. I do not.
Ana. to 14th. I did not.
Ans. to 15tb. I am an adhering mason.
Ans. to 16th. I never did.
Ans. to 17th. I never did. ^
Ans. to 18th. They do. W
Ans. to 19th. I never did.
Ana. to 20th. In answer to the first part, I did not. In answer to the
last part of this interrogative, under circumstances there stated, the person
being a mason merely, would not bias my preferencefor any other man.
Ans. to 21st. I did not, and never practised upon such absurd construction
of my masonic obligations.
Ans. to 22d. I never did.
Ans. to 23d. I should have in preference obeyed my religious, moral and
social obligations in such a case.
Ans. to 24tb. I have always understood masonry to be a moral, social and
charitable institution.
Ans. to 25th. I have visited several lodges and chapters in the states of
Massachusetts and New-Hampshire, mostly in Boston and Portsmouth; no
where else out ofthe state; their practices, signs, and mode of working, were
the same as in Rhode Island.
Ans, to 26th. The grand chapters of a number of states, have formed a
body by delegates, called the general grand chapter of the United States,
and the officer presiding over this body is styled the general grand high priest.
This masonic body has no jurisdiction over master’s lodges or grand lodges of
any of the states. I know not of any connexion between any masonic institu­
tions in the United States, and any masonic institutions in Europe or any
other quarter of the globe. I do not know in what country, or at what date,
the higher degrees in masonry originated, or when they were introduced into
the United .States, or when into the state ofRhode Island.
Ans. to 27. It has been the practice of our lodge, only to give information
to the grand lodge of this state, of the expulsion of members.
Ans. to 28th. There have been .no such communications received, to my
knowledge.
Ans. to 29th.
Ans. to 30th.
Ans. to 31st.
I have norecollection of any such case.
I know ofno such communication having been received.
I answer in the affirmative, to the first part of the interrog­
atory. In answer to the second part of this interrogatory, I have no recol­
lection of such a case.
Ans. to 32d. I do not knowthat any lodge or chapter in Rhode Island has
passed a vote on this subject.
Ans. to 33d. I never have.
Ans. to 35th. The lodges of Rhode Island, pay to the grand lodge, two
dollarsfor the initiation of every candidate, with the exception of such as are
initiated gratuitously, the grand lodge having no other means of defraying
their contingent expenses. The several chapters and mark lodges under the
jurisdiction of the state grand chapter, pay to the same, one dollar for every
candidate, advanced to.the degree of mark master, and two dollars for,every
Digitized by Google
126
Candidate exalted to the royal arch degree, except when the degrees are con­
ferred gratuitously, by which the grand chapter defray their necessary ex­
penses.
Ans. to 36th. I know of nosign given on entering or leaving a chapter or
lodge, recognizing authority is such chapter or lodge, to inflict the penalties
ofobligations administered by them in any of the masonic degrees.
Ans. to 37th. I do not know of any better reason than may be assigned
hy literary and other institutions for granting degrees ofpreferment.
Ques. Have jou, or has your lodge, or any other lodge, chapter or encamp­
ment, to your 'knowledge, had or held any communication formal-or informal,
with any lodge, chapter or encampment, in any other state, upon the subject
of antimasonic persecu^n?
Ans. 1 have no knMedge ofany such communication.
In answer to interrogatories on paper marked E.
Ans. to No. 1, 2, 3, 4,5, 6, 7, 8 and 3. I have never heard such expres­
sions administered in any lodge Or chapter.
Question. Can the secrets ofmasonry affect directly or indirectly the r%
ht*
or interests ofany person not a mason?
Ans. They cannot. P aschal A llen.
We, the subscribers, all of Warren, in the State of Rhode-Island asd
Providence Plantations, on solemn oath do testify and say,—that we art
treemasons, and we have severally taken regularly all the degrees in masoorj
up to the degree ofroyal arch mason inclusive. We were initiated and eui-
4ed in lodges and chapters in different parts of the United States; and weare
•now severally members of temple chapter, No. 3, in said town of Warren.
And we further testify and say, that we have heard the depositions of Nathan
M. Wheaton and Paschal Allen, of said Warren, which are hereunto annex­
ed, and the interrogatories on paper marked O distinctly read to us; and that
«aid depositions are true and correct in every respect, sofar as our knowledge
<
onthe subject ofsaid depositions extends.
J ohn T rott, Wm. C arr, Jr.
W m. C arr, H enry W . C h ild ,
W illiam Collins, J ames Sm ith,
J ohn Salisbury, Seth P eck,
L ewis H oar, N ath’l . P h il l ips,
C yril Martin, Miller Barney.
J. Mauuan, of Barrington.
Nicholas G. Boss of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, ot
solemn oath doth declare and say in answer to the annexed interrogatories:
Ans. to 1st. I a*ma mason and took the three first degrees in St. Jobs’*
lodge, No. 1 in Newport, in July 1821. The fall ensuing I took a degree
in Newport royal arch chapter; in the spring of 1826 I.took four more de­
grees in the Washington encampment; and I have taken one more degree
called the royal master.
Ans. to 2d. Yes.
Ans. to 3d. I was placed in a situation to receive the obligation. The
person presiding then said—“You are now in a situation to receive the obli­
gation of an entered apprentice, which all others have done, who have gose
this way before you. It contains nothing contrary to religion, morality orthe
laws of your country; but is founded on faith, hope and charity, whichifprop­
erly pursued will lead man to the highest eminence.”
Ans. to 4th. The obligation of an entered apprentice marked A, sow
shewn to me, is correct; but when taken by me, the following words w
eft
Digitized by Google
137
idded te the penalty, viz. “ere I would divulge the secrets now about to be
loramitted unto me;” and the same words were in every masonic obligation
which I bare since taken; and there was this further clause in every obliga­
tion which I took as a mason, after the words, without injury to myself, viz.
‘or those who hare a prior claim to my benevolence.” In the master mason’s
)bligation after the words murder and treason excepted, these words were
tdded, when I took it, “and that to be left at my own discretion,” and the
rord debauch, was used instead of violate. The mark master’s obligation
tow shown to me, marked B, is substantially correct, with this variation, that
ve were obligated to have a mark and to have it recorded when we thought
iroper. The past master’s obligation issubstantially correct, with the aadi-
ion of the words “ not wrong the lodge over which I may be called to pre-
ude, nor see it wronged by others, if ft is in my power to prevent it.” The
nost excellent master’s obligation is correct. The royal arch mason’s obli­
gation is correct, except the fifth clause, in which the words “in anger” were
ised, instead of the word, “unlawfully,” when said obligation was taken by
ne, with the addition of the clause, “to keep a royal arch mason’s.secrets as
ny own, murder and treason excepted, and that to be at my own election.”
To question No \} on the annexed paper marked E be saith: I have no
^collection of any such words.
Ans. to 3d. The words “but will apprize him of all approaching danger”
vere not in the obligation I took.
Ans. to 3d. I consider the question already answered. '
Ans. to 4th. I never took or heard the words there mentioned.
Ans. to 5th. I have heard such words used when the person administering
the obligation was not confident that he had given it eorrectly, and therefore
itated that if any part of the obligation had been omitted it should be com­
municated next meeting; but I never knew it to happen except in one or two
instances and then it was considered by me as very irregular, and no part of
the regular masonic obligation: the oath was not so administered to me.
Ans. to 6th. The word “omnific,” was not in the obligation I took, but I
promised not to communicate the grand royal arch word, except in the man­
ner in which I 'received it, and the manner in which I should receive it was
then explained to me. And I did not consider the explanation as a part of
my obligation.
Quest* by request. Was the explanation you have mentioned given before
the oath or obligation was completed; and if so, howdo you separate it from
the oath or obligation?
Ans. It was givenbefore the oath was completed; after the words “ex-
eept in the manner in which I shall receive it;” and the explanation was
given, and not repeated by the candidate.
Ans. to 7th question on said annexed paper marked E. He saith he nev­
er heard the words.
Ans* to 8th. The words “whether be be right or wrong” I never heard
administered in the oath in any lodge or chapter in which I was present, in
any degree of masonry.
Ans. to 9th. I have already answered this question. I never heard the
words “murder and treason not excepted,” used in any obligation administer­
ed to a mason or words to such an effect. I have been in lodges and chap­
ters both in New-Tork and Philadelphia, and there heard obligations admin­
istered as well as in this State. The only words ever used, were “murder
and treason excepted, and that left at my own discretion.”
Ans. to 11th. It is already answered.
Ans. to 13th. 1never heard such a penalty.
Ans.to 13th. Answers in the negative.
Digitized by Google
128
Am. to 14tk There is no such expression at “until or when the last
trump7
’ used. 1 never heard such an expression in a lodge, chapter or en­
campment*
Ans. to 15th. Yes—I believe such an expression was used in several de­
crees of knighthood, but do not reoollect which. I never consid red such de­
grees as any part ofmasonry, and for my understanding of said degrees 1re­
fer to Webb’s Freemason’s Monitor, page 206.
Ans. to 16th. When I took the degree of knight templar, John A. Sbaw
presided. Rev. Mr. Mudge was present and about forty more. Stephen A.
Robinson and Archibald Munro took the degree at the same time, and no suck
words were in the obligation which we took, and no such ceremony took place,
and 1 have never heard or seen such a thing take place in any lodge, chapter
or encampment where I have been.
Question by request. Were these said words used in any ceremony ofin­
itiation in the knight templar’s degree ? Ans. No—they were not.
Ans. to 5th direct interrogatory. Yes they were. 1 considered them is
being connected with, and explanatory of the obligation. ,
Ans. to 6th. 1 inquired of my father, who had been a mason over fortj
years, and he informed methat there was nothing in the obligations contrary j
to religion, morality and the laws of my country, and nothing that 1 might bt
ashamed of.
Ans. to 7th. I did so.
Ans. to 8tb. I understood them as 1 thought—
rwas satisfied and had n
o
doubts. I did inquire before and after I bad taken them. ,
Ans. to 9th. I reflected, after the oath was over, conversed with older mi-
sons, and had no scruples and no objections.
Ans. to 10th. No, I did not; 1 have had conversations with my father,
•Christopher Fowler, Dr. Mann, and other older masons, and understood from
them that the only penalty that could be inflicted on a mason was expulsion,
reprimand or suspension from visiting the lodges; and I never knew any other
punishment inflicted.
Ans. to 11th. I consider the secrets of masonry are the wav by which oae
mason is known to another. I neveff read Allyn’s Ritual and Bernard’s Light
on Masonry: There are certain ways, signs, tokens and words by which oat
mason is known to another, and without which no person can be admitted to
<
a lodge.
Ans. to 12th. The constitution of the grand lodge and by-laws are publish­
ed, and the by-laws ofall lodges are published, and there is no private record
•book.
Ans. to 13th. I know of no other oaths or obligations other than whit l
have mentioned, in the degrees which I have taken.
Ans. to 14th. So far from considering that masonry interfered with myre­
ligious, social or moral obligations, I considered that it tended to make m
e I
better Christian, roan and citizen.
Ans. to 15th. I am not a seceding mason, but adhere.
Ans. to 16th and 17th. I never did.
Ans. to 18th. It does; they are expressly forbidden.
Ans. to 20th. I never did. I never was, or felt.myself influenced to gift
a vote or grant a favor to another man merely because he was a mason.
Ans. to 21st. I never did; I have already answered it.
Ans to 22d. I never did.
Ans. to 23d. I should have obeyed my religious, civil, moral and social ob­
ligations, and consider them as paramount. I consider that my masonic obli­
gations never can come in conflict with my religious, civil, moral and social
obligations.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Ans. to 24th. I consider it as a charitable institution, intended for the re­
lief of distressed brethren,' their families, widows and orphans.
Ans. to 25th. I have visited three master mason’s lodges in New-York, one
chapter in New-York, and one in Philadelphia, and one in Baltimore, and I
bejieve that the ceremonies and obligations were the same as I have here
stated.
Ans. to 2Gth. The lodges communicate to the grand lodge of the State in
which they are located, and each grand lodge communicates with the others.
T here is no general grand lodge in the United States; and I know of no com­
munication between them and foreign countries. There is a general grand
chapter and a general grand encampment, but "having no communication to my
knowledge with foreign countries. 1 know of no connexion between the high­
e r inosonic orders (so called) and those in Europe or elsewhere. The ma-
*onic fraternity in this country are not subject to one common head or power.
Ans. to 27th. When a member is expelled - we communicate it to the
grand lodge, and the grand lodge communicates it to the other grand lodges, and
they inform the subordinate lodges.
Ans. to 23th. We never had any communication from the lodges in N ew-
York, and I never heard of any. *
Ans. to 29th. His name is entered on the list of expelled members.
Ans. to 30th. I never heard of any.
Ans. to 31st. To the first part of the question, I answer yes. To the second
part I answer we admit all masons who we believe to be worthy, and those
who we know to be unworthy we reject. The lodges where they belong frill,
investigate the charges, and if found true, will expel them. The lodges never
pass votes of censure or prohibition, upon masons belonging to another lodge,
until they are first dealt with by their own lodge.
. Ans. to32d. We never have taken any order about it.
Ans. to 33d. I never heard^ny mason justify or palliate the abduction or
murder ofMorgan, and in conversation with masons, they have always con­
demned it, if such a thing did take,place.
Ans. to 34th. The records presented are from 1817, and contain all the
papers and records belonging to the proceedings of the lodge. The records
previous to that time were abducted from the lodge by pr. Case in that year,
and are now not within my control as secretary of said lodge.
* Ans. to 35th. Upon the initiation of a member to the first three^degrees,
he pays twenty-four dollars, out of which two dollars are paid to the grand
lodge, and about the same sum to the grand chapter, upon being exalted as a
royal arch mason. And I know of no other contributions.
Aiis to 36th. They do make obeisance to the master when they go'int
a lodge; and nine times out of ten I only kiss my hand, and I never consider-
-edit as having any reference to the obligation taken.
Ans. to 37th. I don’t know any reason for it. Ans. to 38th. Lnever did.
Questions by request of George Turner. ,*
Ques. Of how many degrees do you consider masonry now to'consist?
Ans. I consider ancient masonry to consist of seven degrees, and the de­
grees of knighthood as of modern origin. The other degrees assumed to be
masonic I know nothing about.. <
Ques. At,what time did you hear the oaths of the royal arch degree of
masonry, administered in New-York and Philadelphia; was it before or since
September 1826.
Ans. I heard the obligation of royal arch masonr administered in New-
York, in 1822, and in Philadelphia, in 1823.
* Ques. When did you have the conversation with Fowler, Cahoone and
Dr. Mann about masonic penalties, that you have alluded to.
Digitized by Google
ISO
Ans. The conversation beld with Messrs. Fowler, Cahoone, Dr. Mans
and others, were at various times after my initiation, as we frequent!/ con-
rersed on the subject*ofmasonry.
Ques. As a mason, can you, or can you not, communicate that fact to a
judge,juror or officer in court, supposing them also to be masons.
-4ns. I can make myself known to a mason, as being a mason, ^ any
time. ' % . .
Ques. Are you an officer or member of the grand lodge of this state?
-4nd are you bound by an oath or obligation under penalty, to abide by and
support all the decrees, ordinances and regulatins of said grand lodge?
-4ns. I am a memberofthe grand lodge, being a past masterof St. John’s
lodge, No. 1., and am bound by no other oath than that taken in my induction
to the office of master; which is similar to the past master’s.
Ques. Did any mason in distress or believing himself to be so, ever make
to you the grand hailing sign; and if so, on what occasion, and how did yon
reply to it?
.4ns. No mason ever did, and I never saw it given.
Ques. Is, or is not, every mason in a lodge required to make the masonic
signs qf each degree, up to that on which the lodge is to be opened, before
the master declares the lodge open.
Declines answering. "
Ques. Is the language found at page 26th of -4Uyn’s Ritual—being the
3d, 4th and 5th lines from the top, a part of the ceremony of initiation as
there stated ?
Ques. Is the language found at'page,43 beginning at the 7th line, a part
of the lecture on the degree of an entered'apprentice mason?
A ns. to the two last. The language contained in the pages referred to, -
have never been used in any lodge to my knowledge.
Ques. by committee. Was you onee called as a witness before the court
ofCommon pleas, Newport county, November term, 1830, in a case between
R. Shaw assignee, and John C. Borden, where the question before the court
was, whether a mason was a competent’juror in a case where one party was
a mason and the other not. If so, did you decline answering toquestions con­
cerning the masonic oaths, £nd why?
-4ns. I was calle'd as a witness, and entered the court room, without
knowing' the question on trial. I was enquired of by B. Hazard, Esq. to
ctate the obligations, and declined doing it. Messrs. Pearce and Turner then
required me to read the obligations as printed in Bernard’s book, and state the
.difference if any. J did read it, and immediately refused, plumply, to answer
or explain the the difference; because, I considered the question as an imper­
tinent and unauthorised one, not holding myself bound to answer individuals
in such matters, but always tobe subject to the constituted authorities.
Ques. second. Did the court require you to answer? Did they find any
fault with' you for not answering?
.4ns. I did not considerthe court as requiring roe to answer the questions.
.4nd no fault has ever been found by them in relation thereto. If I had com­
mitted a contempt of court, I should have been fined, imprisoned or reprimand­
ed, which was not done. Nichs. G. Boss.
jV
*
. G, Boas, being called again testified as follows. I received the papers
marked A B C, containing certain forms ofobligations, paper containing direct
interrogatories and paper with certain stated variations marked E, together
with my deposition before the legislative committee, fromB. Hazard, Esq. on
Tuesday morning, with a request that I would read the questions and answers
to those masons who should be summoned, in order to avoid reading themt#
each one individually on his examination, thereby to'facilitate the examination
Digitized by Google
Isi
and investigation. I proposed to several masons*to hare a meeting at my
office at 4 o’clock that afternoon, but afterwards finding that my engagements'
would not allow me to attend, I requested them to attend early at the lodge
meeting for the election of officers that evening. The lodge was duly opened
and I then stated the business I had to present to thq brothers who had been
requested to attend as witnesses. The officers and members then went to the
fire, the tyler was directed to admit all masons, and setting round the fire
place, I read the questions and brother Robinson read the answers from my
deposition. After which the lodge was called to order and we proceeded to
the usual business of the lodge and election of officers.
Ques. by committee. Have you ever known the affirmation administered
in your lodge, instead of the oath? Have you ever known it refused when
called for?
Ans* I never knewit refused. I neverknew it called forbut once; the can*
didate was Silas Gardner, and the affirmation at his request was adminis-
tered to him by John A . Shaw, thea presiding officer of the lodge and who
was considered to be one of the brighest masons in New-England.
Nichs. G. Boss*
N. G. Boss, being again called, testifies that he knows of no rule or prin­
ciple of masonry, that requires a master mason to be initiated into the degree
of past master, before he can be installed as a master of a lodge. H e,baa
never beard of any such rule or practice but has known instances to the con­
trary, particularly in the cases of capt. Northam and judge Sanford.
In answer to the question No. 26, proposed bythe committee appointed by
the Legislature of the.vstate, the subscriber does answer and say, that from
the best information, he believes freemasonry to have been introduced into
North America in the followihg order :
' In 1730, Lord Weymouth, grand master of England, granted a deputation
to Robert Lacey, merchant, for constituting a lodge in-Savannah, Georgia.
1733. In consequence of an application from masons in New England, Vis­
count Montague, grand master in England, in 1733, appointed R. W. Henry'
Price, provincial grand master of New England, and a lodge was formed in
Boston, under'tbe name of St. John’s grand lodge, the provincial "rand master
being at their head, and under his dispensation exercising with them grand
lodge authority. And in
1734, upon the petitionv
of Dr. Benjamin Franklin and others residing in
Philadelphia, they granted thema charter, appointingDr. Franklin the master.
From this, lodge in Boston, originated all the first lodges in New England,
Pennsylvania, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Mary­
land, Canada, Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, Surinam, and others*
1775. The provincial grand master, Joseph Warren, was slain on Bunker
Hill, and the dispensation held by him not haring been transferred, the ma­
sons in 1783, at theii1first assembling after the revolution, resolved, u that
to maintain a friendly correspondence with all ancientgrand lodges was deem­
ed correct; and it was further resolved that, it being inconsistent with the
principles of the craft, to be subordinate to any foreign lodge, as masonry, in
* peculiar degree, inculcates the doctrine of allegiance on every brother, to the
government ofthe country under which he lives, that grand lodges ought tobe
formed in each state.
In 1749, the lodge in Massachusetts granted a charter to the masons, in'
Newport, R. I. by the name of king Davids Lodge. And in 1759, a char-
ter to St. Johns Lodge. These two lodges united in 1787, under the name
of u the first lodge of mason’s in Newport, R. I.”)
Saint Johfis lodge in Providence, received their charter in January, 1757,
under the name of “ the first lodge in Providence,” by that name,
* 'Digitized by >OQl€
In 1792 the only two lodges in Rhode-Island, the one In Newport^awTtba
one in Providence, formed a grand lodge, (surrendered tbeir dispensations or
aharters which they had received from the grand lodge ofMassachusetts,) and
received new charters from the grand lodge of R. I. signed by the M. W„
Christopher Champlin, grand master, and from that grand lodge has emani-
ted all the masonic lodges in this state, to the degree of master mason.
In 1761 The Grand Consistory convened at Paris, when authority was
given to Stephen Morin to found and establish the higher degrees in the new
vorld. He resided in the West Indies. ^
In 1763 Moses M. Hays arrived in this country with authority fromMorin
to establish |hem, he being appointed D. Grand Inspector General.
-<4bout 1780 Mr. Hays visited or resided in Newport, R. I. and conferred
the degrees to the 33d, on several persons who at that time were masterm
a­
sons, among others on Peleg Clark, and Moses Seixas, in 1781.' His pow
er
as deputy inspector general, was to confer all the degrees after master m
a­
son, unless in a place where a chapter or encampment was formed, a know
l­
edge of these degrees being requisite? But when a chapter or encampment
was in a place, they gave the degrees.
In 1793 Peleg Clark, Moses Seixas, Thomas TV.Moore and Mr. Steams,
being royal arch masons, met at Providence to assist the royal arch massif
there to found a chapter, which they did, under the name of “ the Providence
chapter of royal arch masons,” having a dispensation from the nearest chap­
ter, Washington chapter, New York, dated 3d September, 1793.
In June, 1802, about 30 master masons held a meeting to appoint a com
­
mittee to go to Providence for the purpose of obtaining the royal arch degrees,
Edward Easton, Clarke Cook, John Price. Henry J. Hudson, were appointed.
In January said committee (have obtained them, together with Moses Seixas,
Peleg Clarke, Joseph Rogers, Edward Landers, Benedict Smith and W
il­
liam Boss,) all royal arch masons, presented a petition to grand chapter of
Rhode Island, (formed in 1798,) for power to hold a chapter in Newport, by
the name of Newport chapter, No. 2, which was granted.
The masons exalted by them to royal arch, about 1811, being desirous of
having the higher degrees, and the authority to confer said degrees beinglost
by the decerffee of Moses Seixas, they appointed a committee to proceed to
New York and receive them, and obtain authority to establish a consistoryin
this place. The consistory at that time gave the degrees of knighthood, there
being no encampment here; but when the grand encampment of JNewEng­
land was formed, those who had received the degrees of knighthood, joined
and became subordinate to the one comprising thp northern states,v&nd re­
ceived a dispensation to qonfer the degrees, according to the terms of the
original dispensation for a consistory. N. G. Boss.
. Stephen Ayrault Robinson, of the town and county of Newport, oflaw
ful
age, on solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interro­
gatories. ,
Question by the committee. Are you or have you been a freemason; ifso,
how many degrees in masonry have you taken; by what lodges or chapters
were you admitted; and at what time?
'Ans. I am a mason. I was admitted to the three first degrees inor
about July 1821, and sometime in the fall or winter following, I received the
other four degrees: said first three degrees wer? received in St. John’s lodge
No. 1 in Newport; and the last four io'Newport chapter No. 2, and sometime
in the summer of 1824 I took the royal master’s degree—in 1826 I took the
degrees of knighthood in the Washington encampment in Newport; andinthe
tame year, or in 1827,1 took the select master’s degree^ .
Digitized by C j O O g l e
m
Question by committee. Hare you read over the forms of obligations con­
tained in papers annexed marked A B C ; if30, are those forms substantially
correct? Ans. I have, and tbey are so. /
Quest. Have yon been present while the annexed deposition gives by N.
G . Boss was given; have you attentively heard that deposition read over; if
so, are the answers, explanations and facts given and stated in that deposi­
tion correct and true?
Aos. I was present during the examination of N. G. Boss, and believe alt
th at he has stated is correct. I heard all the questions wbicb were put or
read over to him.
Quest. Ifcalled upon to answer the same questions, is there any material
alteration which you should wish to make?
Ana, There is none, except that the clause, “keep the secrets of a royal
arch mason, murder and treason excepted,” which is mentioned by Mr. Boss,
were not inthe obligation which I took, but 1 have heard them used. I know
of no other variation. Stephen A. R obinson.
The above named S. A. Robinson being called again, says in answer to
tjie following questions.
Question by committee. Have yon ever known the affirmation to be ad-
ministered instead of the oath? Have you ever known it refused when call­
ed for?
Ana. He has known the affirmation administered in one instance^—
that
of Silas Gardner when he was admitted a mason. Has never known it refused.
Question by George Turner. At the time Mr. Boss’ deposition and the
other papers were read in the lodge on the evening of the 27th inst. was there
any discussion or conversation among the brethren on the subject ofthem; if
yea, please to state what it was as particularly as you can?
Ana. There was no discussion or conversation about it. It was merely
observed by some present that the deposition was correct. This was befpre
the lodge, was called to order;—after I heard no one.speak of the busi­
ness at all. Steph en A. R obinson.
„ S. A. Robinson being again called, testifies to the same facts as contained!
in the foregoing deposition ofN. G. Boss. S teph en A R obinson.
Thomas R. Gardner, ofthe town and county of Newport, of lawful a^e/oii \
solemn^oath doth declare and say in answer to the fallowing interrogatories:
Quest, by committee. Are you or have you been a freemason; if so, how
many degrees in masonry have you taken, by what lodges or chapters were
you admitted, and at what time? %
Ans. I am a freemason, and in 1793 took the three first degrees in St.
John’s lodge in Newport. *
In answer to further questions he says, that the forms of the three first ob-
, ligations, contained in paper marked A yare substantially the same as those ad­
ministered to him. He does not recollect whether the words, viz. “and those
left to my own election,” were administered to him in the master’s oath or
not. He has heard them administered to others. He heard the foregoing
deposition given by N. G. Boss, read over, and also the interrogatories an­
swered therein, and says that the facts, statements and explanations therein
contained are correct and true, as far as his knowledge extends; and if the
same questions were put to him he should answer to the same effect as far as
his information would extend. ' T hos. R. G ardner.
Peleg Clarke, of the town and county of Newport, oflawful age, on solemn
oath doth depose and say, in answer to the following interrogatories:
Quest, by committee. Are you or have you been a freemason; if*so, bow
Digitiffed by L.oogte v
134
many degrees in masonry haro you takep, by wbat lodges or chapters were
you Emitted, and at what time?
Ans. I am a freemason, and have taken seven regular degrees, and also
the royal master’s degree. I took them in St. John’s lodge, No. 1, in New-
port-and inthe chapter in Newport, in the year 1821.
Quest, by do. Have you read over the forms of obligations contained in
the annexed papers marked A yB and C; if so, are those forms substantially
correct?
Ans. I have read them, and they are substantially correct; but the words,
“ the first angle and square,” were not in my fellow craft’s obligation, or the
words, “ unless absolute necessity shall require it,” in my master raason’sob-
ligation.
Quest, by do. Have you been present while the annexed deposition given
by N. G. Boss, Esq. was given; have you attentively"heard that depositioa
read over; if so, are the_answers, explanations and facts given and stated is
that deposition, correct and true?
Ans. Mr. Boss’deposition has been read to me, and is correct so far as is
within my own knowledge, except as regards the sign.given at entering or
leaving the lodge, which is one characteristic ofthe order.
In answerJo a question he saitb, that he has attended lodges in jdlexan-
dria on different occasions,.and there saw the first two degrees, and onone
occasion the degree of royal arch given, and the obligation* there administer-
Peleg Clarke, within named, being again called; says that when he west
to the lodge last evening, it was about being opened by one of the brothers,
who proceeded and concluded the opening of the lodge; before proceeding to
business Mr. Boss stated he had the interrogatories put to him by the legisla­
tive committee, and his answers. The officers and members then gathered
'round the fire; be read the questions, brother Robinson bis answers, after
which I called the lodge to order, and announced tothe brethren that wew
ere
ready to proceed to business. P eleg C lark*.
Peleg Jlarke being again called, testifies to the same effect as the twolast
witnesses, except that he is not of his own knowledge acquainted with the b-
Henry J. Hudson, of the town and countyof Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interrogatories.
In answer to question he says he is a mason and took three first degreesfb
1797 in St. John's lodge No. 1, Newport. The four next degrees opto and
including the royal arch he took in Providence in the year 1803. He bad |
beard read frompapers marked A and B; the forms of the obligations takes
in tbe seven degrees be took; be was attentive to the reading of them andto
the best of his recollection they were the same that were administeredto him
. j
There may have been some little variation in some words, but thert wasnone ,
that altered the sense according to the best of bis recollection. He baa
sometimes heard them administered to others sinc&he took them. He has 1
heard read over the foregoing deposition given by N. G. Boss and the interro­
gatories therein replied to; and he believes the facts, and statements and ex­
planations therein contained to be correct as far as his knowledge extends.
He has seldombeen in any lodge except the St. John’s lodge in this tow
n.
If the same questions w4re severally put to him he should answer such oftbe
questions as he had knowledge of, in'the same manner except that he m
ight
use different words. ' -
Question by George Turner. Have you any knowledge of a proposed it-
tack onthe person ofDr. Benjamin W. Cjtse,by the members of St. John’s
ed were the same as used here. P eleg C larks.
stances by them stated. P eleg C larks.
IS*
ledge in this town at any time, aid were you or were yon not applied to or
designated as one who was to be concerned in said personal attack ?
Ans. He does not' know why Mr. T. should ask such a question. He
answers no throughout all its parts in the negative. He never heard of such a
thing being ever in contemplation, and from his' knowledge of the masons in
this town he does not believe it was ever dreamt of H enry J. H udson.
Stephen Cahoone, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interrogatories.
Ques. ^4re you a freemason? if so, bow many degrees have you taken, and
in what lodges and chapters did you receive them, and at what time?
Ans. I am a freemason and have taken three degrees; I received them
in St. John’s lodge in Newport, about forty years ago, Moses Seixas then
being master.
Ques. Have youread or heard read, the forms of the obligations for those
three degrees, contained in the paper marked A , and annexed to the forego-
ing deposition given by Wgi. Wilkinson?- If so, are those the same in
substance that were administered to you? are there any material variations,
if so, please point them out.
Ans. I have read those forms, and they are substantially correct as far
as I can recollect. I have not been at a lodge more than three times in the
last twenty years; but the sense and^substance of the obligations are still im­
pressed upon my mind.
Ques. Have you read or heard read, from the annexed paper marked E,
certain variations or differences between the forms just referred to and certain
other fbrms of the same obligations, said to be contained in certain books.
If so, did the oaths you took contain any part of those variations, and what?
Ans. They did not contain any part of said variations, according to the
best of my recollection. ~
Ques. Did your obligation in the master’s degree contain these words,
viz: “ and those left to my own election,” after the words murder and treason.
An*. I have no recollection of them.
Ques. Have you read over or heard read over, attentively, the annexed
deposition given N. G. Boss, and the interrogatories therein replied to; if So,
are the facts and statements and explanations in said deposition contained,
correct and true as far as your knowledge extends?
An*. I heard said deposition read, and the facts, statements and explan­
ations therein contained, are correct and true as far as they are within my own
knowledge.
Interrogatories by request of George Turner. Are there any variations
that you know or recollect; if so, please to state them?
An*- I do not recollect any variations of any kind.
Intg. When were you at the meetings of the lodge, as you have stated ?
Ans. At two different funerals, and once last night: I attended last even­
ing for the purpose of hearing read the forms of the oaths, and the other pa­
pers to which I have referred, and I left the lodge directly after they were
read, and did not stay to the annual election of officers.
Intg. By whom were those oaths and variations read toyou?
Ans. Mr. Boss read the interrogatories, oaths and variations, and Mr.
Robinson read the answers.
t Intg. Do yon know any thing about the proceedings of the lodge in this
town, on the disposal of its funds for the last ten or fifteen years; if so, please
to state what they have been, and your means of information.
Ans. 1 know nothing about it.
Intg. Could you repeat all or either of the fbree masonic oaths you bare
taken; and ifso'pleaee do so?
•D
ig
itize
db
yGoogle
136
i
K
A ds. I could not; and if I could, should not; for if I could my conscience
would nut let uie.
Intg. How far does your knowledge extend, or do you mean that you would
answer all the interrogatories put to Mr. Boss precisely as he has done?
Mns. According to my recollection of masonry I should have answered the
questions as he has done.
Intg. Ms.a mason can you, or can you not, communicate that fact to ajudge,
juror or officer ia court, during a judical trial, supposing them also to"be ma­
sons?
Mns. I can make myselfknown as a mason to another mason, and at any
time or place. •
Intg. Did any mason in distress, or believing himself to be so, ever make
to-you ihe grand hailing sign ofdistress; ifso, when and where? ,
Aus. I have no recollection ofany such sign ever having been made te m
e.
Intg. Is a r is not every mason in a lodge required to make the masonic sign
of each degree, up to that on which the lodge is to be opened, before the mas-
ter.declares the lodge duly opened?
Mus. N ot that 1 recollect— there are various ways of paying a compliment
to the master; the same as there are different ways of salutation in the street
Intg. While you were secretary of the lodge did you ever know w ine tobe
distributed or handed out to the indigent brethren, their widows or orphans; if
so, at what time and by whose orders?
Mns. H e saith that he has no recollection of any such thing.
In tg . by committee. W ere you secretary of the lodge for a number of
years; if so, at what time and how long? State what disposition w as made
of the funds as far as your knowledge extends: whether ever diverted froa
charitable objects and necessary expenses of the lodge?
Mns. 1 was secretary of the lodge about thirteen years, comnunencii'g
about 1797, and the disposable funds of the lodge were always used for char­
itable purposes, except what were used for incidental expenses; and they w
ere
generally handed out in the month of October and January; said funds w
ere
never used for purchasing refreshments, or for the purposes ofconviviality. Ml
refreshments were purchased' by contributions. There was always a cele­
bration on St. John’s day and a feast, but every mason who attended paid hi*
proportion ofthe expense.
S teph en C u io o .
ne.
John G. Whitehorne, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age,
on solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to.the following interrogatories.
Intg. Mre you or have you been a freemason; if so, how many degrees <f
masonry have you taken; by what lodges and chapters were you admitted;
and at what.time?
Mns. I am a freemason, and in the year 1800 dr 1801,1 took three de­
grees in St. John’s lodge No. 1 in Newport.
Intg. Have you read over the forms of obligations contained in the paper
annexed marked M; if so, are those forms substantially correct?
Mns. I have—and I think that they are correct?
Intg. Have you been present while the annexed deposition given by N.
G. Boss, Esq. was given? have you attentively heard that deposition r«*
over; if so, are the answers, explanations and facts given and stated in that)
deposition correct and true, so far as they are within your own knowledge?
i Mns. I heard said deposition read over in the lodge roomat the time Cap­
tain Stanhope has mentioned, and as far as I am acquainted with masonry,
the facts, explanations and answers contained in it are correct and true.
Intg. If called upon to answer the same questions, is there any material
alteration, which you should wish to give? Mns. I know of none.
J o H N ^ r. W ntTailO RH *.
* Digitized by ■ o o g c
131
John It. Stanhope, of tbt town and count/ of Newport, of lawfal age, cut
solemn oath, doth declare and sa/ in answer to the following interrogatories*
Int. Are you a freemason; if so how man/ degrees in masonr/ bare /on
taken, b/ what lodges or chapters were /ou admitted, and at what time?
Ant. I am a.freemason, and in or about 1827, took the three first degreOf
in St. John’s lodge, in Newport. In answer to further questions, hesa/s the
forms of the oaths for the degrees he took, and which forms were read to him'
from paper marked A , are the same that were administered to him as far as he
can recollect. He has heard read the foregoing deposition given by N. G.
Boss, and the interrogatories therein answered, and sa/s that the facts, state­
ments and explanations in that deposition contained, are true and correct as
far as his knowledge extends.
Quest, b/ George Turner. When, where and b/ whom, were the forms of
oaths and the deposition of Mr. Boss read to you, and at whose request?
Ant. Last evening, at the lodge, the said deposition, forms and interrog­
atories were read by N. G. Boss, and the answers were read by S. A. Rob­
inson. The chairman of the committee now says and withes me to state, that
it was done at his request, for the purpose of saving the trouble of reading
over the whole of those papers to each witness when called to testify,
v Quest, by do. Vlas the lodge regularly open when the said papers were
read, and was there any discussion or conversation on the subject of said
deposition,, if so what was it? please to state it as particularly as Jmu can.
Ant. Whether the lodge bad been regularly opened or not he cannot tell.
This business of reading was done at the beginning of the evening; the mem­
bers present sat round the fire and heard the papers read, the object of doing
which being mentioned. This was no part of lodge business; I did not con­
sider it so. There was no manner of discussion about it; there was no con­
versation upon the subject, except that it was observed generally that Mr.
Boss had answered the questions correctly and properly. This was the reg­
ular annual meeting and the lodge afterwards proceeded in its ordinary busi­
ness. The lodge was opened before the officers were chosen, but whether
before the papers were read or not I can’t recollect. He recollects hearing
the master declare the lodge to be open, but'the time he can’t remember.
Quest, by do. At the time you entered the lodge last night was it in the
language of masons duly tyled, or was it not?
Ant, I walked into the lodge as I walk into any room, and without any
sign or ceremony whatever; the door waa open and I noticed no keeper or
tyler there.
Quest, by do. Is there, or is there not, always some ceremony observed
among masons, at the opening and closing of a lodge, and was the ceremony
of opening the lodge performed last night after you entered it.
Ant. There are always some ceremonies observed at the opening and
closing of a lodge. A t to the opening last night, 1 have already answered
as far as I have any recollection about it. John R. Stanhope.
Henry F. Cranston, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful
age, declining to take the ordinary oath was engaged to answer such
questions as should be put to him relative to the trial of a case B. Chase
trustee &c. vs. John C. Borden in court Common Pleas Nov. 7, 1830,
in answer to the following interrogatories.
Quest. Are you, or have you been a freemason; if eo, how many
degrees in masonry have you taken; by what lodges and chapters were
you admitted; and at what time?
Ans. He is %mason; has taken from fifteen to twenty-two degrees;
He cannot precisely recollect; all in this town; he took the first two in
18 •'igitized by ,ooge
138
June 1813—next or 3d degree a month or two after. The cliapter de­
grees somewhere in 1814; the degrees ef knighthood the same year o r
the first part of the next. He thinks he took the whole between the
years 18f3 and 1816, as well as he can recollect; he will not be at all
certain about it; the records will show.
Quest. Was you called on as a witness in a case between Benjamin
Chase trustee &c. and John C. Borden in court common pleas Novem-
her term 1830; if so, was it on a motion to the court to exclude Bate­
man Munro from the jury on the ground of his being a mason, one of
the parties being a mason and the other not? Ans. Yes.
Quest. Did you or not on that occasion refuse to answer any ques­
tion put to you ?
Ans. No—I never refused to answer any question put to me under
the direction of the court. I refused to read the forms of the oaths from
Bernard's book as called upon to do by Mr. Pearce. The question
was asked me by Mr. Hazard before the court, whether I was prepared
to answer every question which the court should say was a proper ques­
tion to be put to me, and 1 answered distinctly and unequivocally that
I was.
Quest. Did one of the judges ask you whether if the oaths in the
book were read over to you by Mr. Pearce, paragraph by paragraph,
you would attend and say whether they were the same as the oaths you
took, or would point out the variations?
Ans. One of the judges said, “ Mr. Cranston, will you (or you will,
which I cannot not now recollect) attend to the reading of the oaths
from the book and point out the differences.” I did so attend and did
as far as I was was able point out the differences as inquired about bjr
Mr. Pearce, and did answer every question put to me during the read­
ing respecting the oaths. H enry Y. Cranston.
General Isaac Slall, being sworn, in answer to annexed interrogato­
ries tS&tifies.
Ans. to 1st. He is a mason; has taken the degrees of knighthood and
all the lower degrees regularly. He took the three first degrees some­
thing like twenty years ago or over, in St. John’s lodge Newport. The
other degrees soon after, except the degrees of knighthood, which was
something like five years after betook the master’s degree; he took
the whole in this town.
Ans. to 4th/ To this he answers that he cannot now repeat the obli­
gations; ho could many years ago.
Ques. by committee. Should you know the oaths if read over to you?
Ans. He don’t think he should without a long reflection upon it.
The form of a royal arch mason’s oath being read to him from an an­
nexed paper marked B, he (witness) says that he can’t tell whetherthai
was the form of the oath he took; if he was to have time he might re­
call some parts of the obligation to his mind. The impression on bis
mind respecting the obligations is very indistinct, he may say it has
gone entirely from him; it is more than ten years, he believes, since he
has heard either of the oaths administered; his attention has been con­
fined talus own business. *
Interrogatories Nos. 8th and 9th, being read read to him from annex­
ed paper marked E, he says that he never took any oath containing a
promise that he would assist a companion royal arch mason when ne
saw him engaged in any difficulty, and would espouse his cause so far aa
to extricate him from the same whether he he right or wrong, nor did ho
• Digitized by Google
139
^fever promise to keep the secrets of a companion royal arch masoft, or
any other masons, murder and treason not excepted, nor anything of the
kind; he never took any such oaths, nor did he ever hear any such ad­
ministered.
Ans. to 10th. To this he answers by no means. He put no such
construction upon the oaths.
Ans. to 14th. He answers that he did not when he took the oaths, and
never since has considered them as incompatible with his religious,
moral, civil or social obligations.
Ans to 39th. To this he answers, that the royal arch chapter was
established in this town by the agency of James Perry, Edward Easton,
John A. Shaw and others; this was from fifteen to twenty years agd,
he thinks; not long after the Washington encampment was introduced
here by the same persons; and in this the witness had an agency; we de-
rived our first authority from the encampment in New-York; after­
wards we placed ourselves under the jurisdiction of the grand encamp­
ment of Rhode Island and Masschusetts. We received from the grand
oonsistory of New-York, authority to establish a consistory in this
town, which we did soon after establishing the encampment.
Questions by George Turner. Ques. Do you know whence the
New-York masons derived their authority to establish encampments
and consistories; could it be derived from any but au European source ?
Ans. He has no knowledge of this.
Ques. Are there not fees or dues paid by all masons or masonic bod­
ies to the masonic body from whom they derive their charter, dispensa­
tion or other masonic rank or authority *and is there not a regular sub­
ordination and dependence between them in all countries?
•Ans. All subordinate lodges pay a small fee to the grand lodge for
Ovefy candidate initiated. Each masonic order pays a certain fee upon
receiving its charter or dispensation, and with respect to fees the same
regulations govern throughout the whole orders a9 is established between
the grand lodge and the subordinate lodges. He knows nothing about
the subordination of lodges or masonic orders in other countries,, nor
rabout their rules and regulations. He cbnsiders that the several en­
campments in this state and Massachusetts are subordinate to the grand
encampment of Rhode Island and Massachusetts; and that the grand
encampment is subordinate to the general grand encampment of the
United States. But the grand lodges in the several states and the
lodges in connection with them are not subordinate to any other masonic
bodies whatever, and have no connection with chapters, the encamp­
ments, or grand encampment of Rhode Island and Massachusetts, or
general grand encampmeut of the United States.
Ques. Was there any chapter established in this state, before the
chapter in Newport; if so, when?
Ans. There was a chapter established in Providence before that in
Newport; how lohg he can’t tell.
Ques, Do not all members of masonic bodies from the lowest to the
highest, take an obligation to support the constitution of some superior
order or degree when they are admitted or raised, so far as you have
knowledge ?
Ans. The members ofsubordinate lodges promise to support the con­
stitution of the grand lodge. The members admitted into the chapters
promise to support the constitution of the grand chapter; and the same
principle prevails through the different orders. The members of the
fencaihpment in this town promise to support the constitution of the
Digitized by Google
140
gtand encampment of Rhode Island and Massachusetts. Whethef they
also promise to support the constitution of the general grand encamp*
ment of the United States, he cannot tell; there are no obligations ta­
ken in the grand encampment of Rhode Island and Massachusetts; no
members are made there. He has been a member of the grand en­
campment of Rhode Island and Massachusetts. The members of the
consistory in this town did not take any obligations to support the con­
stitution of the New-York consistory, nor the constitution of any other
masonic body.
Ques. Can any man become a member of any encampment or grand
encampment, who is not a member ofsome lodge, grand lodge or chap­
ter; and are the officers ofthe higher orders, frequently officers of low­
er grades ofmasonic bodies at the same time ?
Ans. To the first and last part, he answers in the negative.
Ques. What is the jurisdiction or power over other masonic bodies,
of a consistory.
Ans. A consistory has no control at all over any degrees or orders
under the consistory, nor is subordinate to any order above. There are
no orders above it.
v Ques. If there is no degree of masonry above consistory—from
what source do consistories derive their right to form and hold consis­
tories,- or delegate that power to others ?
Ans. He has no knowledge.
Ques. In whose hands is the charter granted to the Rhode Island
consistory now kept?
Ans. He cannot tell; there has been but little attention paid to it
(the consistory) for several years past.
' Ques. Who are now, or were.the last officers of the consistory here?
Ans. He cannot tell. I t a a g Stall.
Stephen Veblois, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age,
on solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following inter­
rogatories:
Int. Were you a member of the masonic body or order called the
consistory, established in this town about the year 1813; if so were yon
recorder or secretary to that body—were their books opened—who has
those books now—what were the entries made in those books—what
were the proceedings of that body—is it now in existence ?
Ans. He was a member—was the first recorder and remained so one
or two years he thinks. There were no regular books at the time,
I and he knows of none since. There were some, mjnutes of the pro-
^ ceedings of the meetings taken; where they now are, or whether they
i*e preserved or not, he does not know; probably the secretary has
1them if there is any; he does not know, however, that there is now
secretary. The proceedings were similar to other masonic institu-
>ns. He has not attended it for 8 or 9 years—considers it still in
xistence because there is nothing to put it out of existence. Has no
Knowledge of its having had any meeting since he met with it. It is
very likely he has received notice to meet with it since he did meet,
but don’t recollect, The original members were ten in number, five of
whom are now dead; whether any have been added he does not know.
He does not know any of the present officers, nor whether there aro
any. Does not know of any being elected for a number of years.
Questions by George Turner.
Quest. How many degrees in masonry had you taken before you
Digitized by Google
141
applied for a charter to the sovereign .grand consistory of the United
States of America? Ana. Eleven.
Quest. WJiat was the form of petition and oath of submission made
by you and your associates, for the purpose of procuring a charter or
dispensation from that body ?
Ans. The form of the petition was similar to other petitions for dis­
pensations, and the oath of submission was given in the same way that
subordinate lodges take it to the grand lodge, viz.: to conform to the
rules and regulations.
Quest. What was the title of the presiding officer of that consistoryr
and who was the first one ? Ans. Do not recollect.
Quest. Whose duty was it to keep those minutes?
Ans. The secretary’s.
Quest. Why do you call that body a consistory ?
Ans. Does not know why it has that particular title.
Quest. Do you know that^ they have not met since you met with
them?
Ans. Does not know that they have met, but thinks it probable that
they have met, because it was necessay for them to make their returns.
Quest. Do you know anything about the jurisdiction or pretended
power of S. G. C. of the U. S. of America?
Ans. The same jurisdiction over their subordinate bodies, that other
masonic bodies have over theirs.
Quest. Was not John A. Shaw one of the original members?
Ans. Yes, he considered him so; he was a member of the grand con­
sistory.
Quest. What were the rules and regulations of the grand consistory
to which you took an oath of submission? Please to state them.
Ans. Does not know. ^
Quest; From whence did the grand consistory of the United States
derive their masonic authority to erect grand councils, as expressed in
the dispensation of the R. I. masons?
Ans. Does not know; he presumes from France. He has heretofore
seen the by-laws and regulations of the grand consistory, but does not
now recollect what they were; but his impression is, that like all oth­
ers, they were for the good order of said consistory.
Quest. Will you produce the by-laws of the grand consistory, and
also the constitution of that body?
Ans. He had a copy of the by-laws, but whether the constitution or
not cannot say. Have not seen the by-laws for 12 or 13 years. They
are somewhere among my papers, but don't know where.
Quest. What fees, dues or contributions were paid by you and your
associates, to the grand consistory, at or about the time you received
that dispensation, and had that consistory a right to exact any other or
further dues, at any future time, or on any subsequent event?
Ans. Does not recollect how much, but remembers that as a member
he loaned $130 at one time towards obtaining the charter and for initia­
tion of members. The sum paid was a larger amount, but his propor­
tion of the whole amount not so much.
Quest. What was the whole amount paid the New York consistory
for establishing the one in R. I. according to the best of your recollec­
tion? Ans. Don’t recollect. Stephen Deblois.
WHtiam Ghggeshall, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful
•age, on solemn oath doth declare and say, in answer to the following in ,
terrogatories.
Digitized by Google
14%
Intg. Were you a member of the masonic order calledthe consistory^
established here about the year 18IS; if so, please to state what you
know about its origin, its proceedings; whether it is now'in existence,
or has been discontinued; who, if any, are its present officers, bow long
since it met, who has its books, if there are any?
Ans. He knows very little about it; it is eight or nine years since
he visited it, expects it has had meetings since, but don’t know; is not
able to say where it originated. He expects they holdregular meetings
to elect their officers, but has no knowledge of the fact: who the pres*
ent officers are, if any, he don’t know. The first tneetings were held
for the purpose of initiating the members to whom4he charter was grants
ed, and some others were initiated: Capt. Bliss was one, he thinks; he
don’t recollect the names of any others. No after meetings were held
for any other purpose than that of initiating members, and for the elec*
tion of officers. He thinks there must have been a record of what waft
done, but is not certain: if there are, does not know where they are.
Questions by request of George Turner. What was the whole amoant
of fees or dues paid by the R. 1. masons for the charter, to the grand
consistory ?
Ans. He could not make any guess about it at this time.
Quest. What was the form of the petition presented, and by whom
signed, and what was the form and substance of the oath of submission
that you then took ?
Ans. He has no recollection; hut if there was any oath of submiss­
ion it must have heen merely to abide by the superintendence of tbe
grand consistory, the same as is observed in subordinate lodges towards
grand lodges.
Quest. Wkat jurisdiction or authority is vested in the grand consisto­
ry ofthe United States of America?
Ans.'He never heard of any such body: if he had it has escaped his
memory. There is, he believes, a grand consistory in N. York, which
has jurisdiction over the other consistories in the United States, as far
as they extend.
Quest. Is there in this consistory any higher order or degree in ma­
sonry than princes of the royal sectet, and members of the grand coo-
%sistory ? He answers in the negative.
Quest. Who was the first presiding officer of the R. I; consistory or
ccuncil, and what is the title ofsuch officer ?
Ans. Thinks John A. Shaw was; is not able to name the title.
Quest. What are the rules and regulations of the grand consistory;
what are their by-laws and constitutions ?
Ans. It is so long since he had any thing to do with the consistory
that he does not recollect any thing about the rules and regulations, or
by-law? of the grand consistory. Wm. C oggeshall.
David M. Coggeshall, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful
age, on solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following
interrogatories:
Quest. Were you a member of the masonic body or order called the
Consistory established in this town about the year 1815; if so, what
were the proceedings of that body? is it now in existence? State all
you know about it.
Ans. If I was a member of that body I had forgotten it, until it was
mentioned to me te-day that my name was one of those in the charter.
I now recollect that about the time above mentioned I was engaged
Digitized by Google
j*
143
about a vessel at Gardner’s wharf; when tome one, whether Johh A.
Shaw. Mr. Merrill or some one else I don't recollect, came to me with
a subscription paper for me to sign, being for a contribution for the pur­
pose of obtaining some of the higher degrees of masonry from New-
York. I don’t now recollect what degrees, but they were degrees
above the degree of royal arch. I gave, I think, five dollars. 1 do
not know how many degrees I have taken. I took all there was. 1
have understood from some of the companions that there were thirty-
two degrees. I do not recollect that I have ever seen the charter—may
possibly at the time. I do not think that I have ever attended any ma­
sonic body or order called a consistory or cbuncil. I have no recollec­
tion. 1 never saw any books of such a body. Have heard some one
say that probably Capt. Bliss mayJiave them. He has now charge of
a vessel in the harbor.
Questions by George Turner. Who gave you the degrees you speak
of in the consistory ?
Ans. I have told you already that I know of no such body.
Quest. Who was the presiding officer and what was his title ?
Ans. Whatever degrees I took, whether as knight of Malta or of the
red cross or other degree, J. A. Shaw presided; by what title I don't
know; each order would have some particular appellation for its pre-
/ siding officer; what they were I don’t know. I say again that I have
no recollection of any order by name ofconsistory or council.
. Quest. Did you take any oath when you! forwarded your petition to
the consistory ?
Ans. I took no oath and know of no petition to any consistory. I
do not recollect that I ever saw any such petition^
Quest. Do you know the names of any of the masonic degrees tak­
en in the consistory or council?
Ans. I have already answered that I know of no maspnic order or
body by that name.
Quest. Do you know anything of the bye-laws, constitution, rules
or regulations of your consistory, or'that in New-York from which you
derived your authority? Ans. I have already answered.
Quest. Do you know whence the^New-York consistory derived its
authority? Ans. I know nothing about it.
Quest. Wbat was the jurisdiction, of the said New-York consistory?
Ans. I know nothing about it.
Quest. Were there any stated fees or dues payable to the New-
York consistory on the initiation or exaltation of members; if so, wbat
were they? Ans. I know nothing about it.
Quest. When did you complete your degrees in the consistory ?
Ans. I know nothing about it. D avid M. C oggeshall.
Jeremiah Bliss, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath doth declare and say, in answer to the following interroga­
tories:
Intg. Were you a member of a masonic body or order, called the
consistory, established in this town about the year 1813; if so, were
you recorder or secretary to that bodv; were'their books opened; who
has those books now; what were the entries made in those books; what
were the proceedings of that body; is it now in existence ?
. Ans. I was considered a member of it; was admitted I think by J. A.
Shaw, deputy inspector, who I supposed was authorised, aftter it had
been established how long I don’t know—was not one of the original
Digitized by Google
144
members; 1 don’t know of the admission of any other members: I w as
never recorder or secretary of it; there were no regular books that I
know of. There were one or two meetings, probably to elect officers,
or to consult about their appointment: I recollect no other business be­
ing done; and there was no other record than memorandums taken of
those psesent, and of the officers chosen. I do not now recollect who
was recorder, or any other officers; almost every thing respecting it
has now gone out of my recollection. I think it very probable that
whatever minutes or memorandums there were, are in my possession,
because the charter was; having been left with me by J. A. Shaw, when
he went to the southward. I have no knowledge of more than one or
two meetings, the last of which was as much as four years since I should
think. We appointed some officers; I have no recollection who they
were, except that I was myself appointed president. I am not certain
about the time of the last meeting; it may have been longer. Five out
of ten of the original members, as named in the charter, are now dead,
according to my best information. Since I have been acquainted with it
it has always been in an incomplete state, as I consider it; since the
last meeting it has been neglected, as far as l know; I consider it still
in existence, because its charter has not been surrendered. The only
living members that 1 know of are S. Deblois, Wm. and David M. Cog-
geshall, John Brown, Isaac Stall, myself and J. A. Shaw, the deputy
inspector, who has for a number of years resided out of this state.
Questions by request of George Turner. Where did this body hold
their meetings?
Aits. It held its meetings in the masonic hall when I was with them.
Intg. What was it called?
Ans. It was called the council, and sometimes consistory, I think. |
Intg. Who were the officers at the time you were admitted?
Ans. I don't know one of them except Mr. Shaw, who was deputy in­
spector.
Intg. And what were the titles ofthem? Ans. I don't know.
Intg. What fees were exacted of you on your admission, and to whom
were they paid? Ans^ I paid nothing. -
v Intg. Had that masonic body any constitution or by-laws; ifso, what
were they? Ans. I don't know.
Intg. What was the title of the New-York masonic body from whom
your body derived its charter ?
Ans. We called it the grand consistory, I dont know of any other title.
Intg. How many members were required to "make a legal meeting to
do business? Ans. I dont know.
Intg. How many members attended last meeting that you have men­
tioned?
Ans. It appears to me not more than four or five, dont recollect the
number exactly.
Intg. Do you know where the New-York consistory derived its au-’
thority, the extent ofjurisdiction that it claimed and what was its con­
stitution, by-laws or rules and regulations ?
Ans. I have no more knowledge ofit than you have yourseIC
Jeremiah bliss.,
John Brown, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath doth declare and say in answer to the following interroga­
tories.
Intg. Were you a member of a masonic body or order called the
Digitized by Google
146
eonsistory, established inthis town about the year 18IS; if so, were you
recorder or secretary to that body?, were tnere books opened? who
has those books now ? what were the entries made in those books ?
what were the proceedings of that body? is it now in existence? State
all you know abdut it.
Ans. I was a member of it in 1813. Was never recorder or secre­
tary. Do not recollect any of the first officers now. It is nine or ten
years since there has been any meeting of it to the best of my recollec-
tion; the thing has died away entirely. The annexed printed leaf
marked N, contains the names of the officers as they were I think in
the year 1813 or 1814; my impression is that it was in 1813. The said
leaf annexed was saved by me from a small book or pamphlet issued by
the grand consistory in New-York, containing lists of the consistories
or councils under their jurisdiction, and lists of the officers of those
consistories or councils, and nothing more; the annexed leaf I took out
of said pamphlet and preserved, because it contained the names of the
officers ofour consistory—taking no interest in the rest. It has been
.torn up years ago. I subscribed something towards Obtaining the char­
ter—do not recollect how much;—we paid for it, but I don’t know
how much. Three or four meetings I think, were all that ever I at­
tended. No business was done but to call over and take down the
nanqies ofmembers present, and appoint officers. Do not think there ever
were any regular books, but I don’t know. Do not kifow who now has
the minutes that were taken, or books, if there were any. I never knew
of any fees or money being paid to the New York grand consistory af­
ter that paid for the charter. There was none paid to my knowledge.
I do not consider that body as having now any existence here*
Questions by George Turner.
Quest. Have yon any copy of the book from wjiich that page was.
taken; or do you know of any person who has?
Ans. I have none, neither do I know of any body that has.
Quest. At what time was the book from which the page you have pre­
sented is taken, destroyed?
Ans. I have no recollection, t think I read it in 1813. I think
none of it has been in existence for 5 or 6 years, except this last. I
used to make use of the leaves to wipe my razor upon when shaving at
the glass which hung over my desk.
Quest. Do you know anything about the admission of Jeremiah Bliss ?
Ans. I have no recollection of the time when he was admitted.
Quest. What did that pamphlet contain on the pages before page 9
that of the one produced here. Ans. I have already answered.
Quest. Where did this consistory hold its meetings?
Ans. In the lodge hall whenever I met with them.
Quest. Wlmt was the constitution by-laws of your consistory, and of
. the New York consistory, its rules and regulations, and what was the
jurisdiction claimed or exercised by either of these bodies; and whence
did the New York consistory derive its authority? What was the form
or substance of your petition for a charter, and what was the form of
the oath of submission, if any, that you made to that body when you
applied for or took that charter?
Ans. I know nothing about the constitutions or by-laws, or rules or
regulations of the consistory, or the one in New York, nor what was
itsJurisdiction, nor whence derived. I do not recollect any thing about
the substance of the petition. "All1 recollect about the oath is, that it
19 ,
Digitized by Google
146
contained a prom ise to subm it to th e ru les and regulations o f the g ra n d
consistory. - J ohn B eowit.
N
List of the grand councils of the S. P. of R. Sec. constituted bj
the M. P. Sov. G. consistory, for the United States of America.
The G. council for the state of Louisiana* sitting in the city of New
Orleans. 111. President, 111. B. Emmanuel Gigaud; G. Sen. Warden,
111. B. John Pinard; G. Jun. Warden, 111. B. Neel Cesar Fournier;
G. Secretary, 111. B. Pierre Thomas Jarrie; G. Keeper of the Seals,
111. B. Raymond Devese.
Grand council for the state of Rhode Island, sitting in the city of
Newport. 111. President, 111. B. Stephen Deblois; G. Sen. Warden*
Ifi. 3L Richard Merrill; G. Junior Warden, 111. B. William Davis; G.
Secretary, 111. B. William Coggeshall; G. Treasurer, 111. B. Edward
Easton; G. Master of Ceremonies, 111. B. Isaac Stall; G. Captain of
the Guard, 111. B. John Brown; David M. Coggeshall, William Doug­
lass, James Perry. •
Sov. Chapter of-P. R. regularly constituted under the title of the
tripple alliance. President, M. R. and P. B. James B. Durand; Ex
President, M. R. and P. B. John W. Mulligan.
TheophUus Topham, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful
age, on solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following
interrogatories: f
Int. Are you a mason; if so of how many degrees?
Ans, l a m a mason; have taken twelve or thirteen degrees; took*
them all in this town, and^between the years 1807 and 1815, as well am
I recollect.
Int. Is it in your power now to repeat accurately from memory the
several masonic obligations you have taken, or any of them?
Ans. I suppose #miglit repeat some of them, all I could not. I
think I could repeat them as high gs the royal arch, inclusive. I de­
cline repeating. It has been my understanding that I was bound not
to repeat them. I never considered that I was injuring any body by
not repeating them.
Int. Have you ever taken any masonic obligation which you thought
was inconsistent with any of your religious, civil, or social duties?
Ans. None at all.
Int; When you took the general oaths, was it your understanding
that you thereby, as far as you could, gave jurisdiction to the lodge
over your life, or that you as a member of the lodge was to share in the
same jurisdiction over others?
Ans. I never so understood it. I never considered that I gave the
lodge any jurisdiction over my life, or that I acquired any over other*.
Expulsion from the lodge I suppose to be as high a penaUy as they can
inflict. ^
Question by George Tiftner. Do you know or have you been told
that this committee have in manuscript, the forms of the several oaths
up to and including the royal arch degree, furnished them by some of
the officers of the grand lodge in Providence.
Ans. I have been so told, and I looked over the papers said to contain
those forms, the fyst day the committee met in the court house in this
town. *'
Quest, by do. Is there any other penalty for a violation of masonic
oaths, than such as is expressed in the oaths thpinsclves?
Ans. This I consider already answered.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
147
Quest, by committee. Were the forms of the oaths you read in the
eourt house correct?
Aiis. 1 read them over very cursorily. They were not exactly the
same as those 1had taken; there were some slight differences. As far
as I examined them I think they contained some things which our forms
Ao not. They were rather fuller than we have been in the habit of ad­
ministering. 1 did not think, however, that there was any addition or
Omission that materially affected the extent or meaning of the oaths..
T heophilus T ofham.
Jacob Smith, of the town and county of Newport, of lawful age, on
solemn oath, doth declare and say in answer to the following interro­
gatories.
. Intg. Are you or have you been a free mason, if so, how many de­
grees in masonry have you taken,by what lodges or chapters were you
admitted and at what time?
Ans. I am a freemason and in year 1785 I took two degrees in Prov­
idence in St. Johns lodge No. 2. I took three degrees in the Island of
St. Gustatiain the year 1797.
Intg. Did you take an obligationupon being initiated into each degree,
can you now repeat that obligation, was there any thing in either of
those obligations which you have ever considered as incompatible with
any of your religious, moral, civil or social duties? %
Ans. I did take such obligation but cannot repeat it, it is now thirty
four or five years since I took the last of them, there was nothing in any
masonic obligation I ever took which I ever Considered as interfering
with any ofmy duties. I have'always considered masonry to be a char­
itable institution.
Intg. Was it ever your understanding that by th&pbligationyou took,
you gave to masons a jurisdiction over your life in any case?
Ans. Certainly not. The highest penalty a msonic lodge or any oth­
er masonic body can- inflict is expulsion.
Intg. Did you ever know lodges or masons as such to interfere in
politics or party.
Ans. I never knew them meddte with any such thing, in this or any
other country.
Intg. Did you ever hear any mason justify or palliate'the murder of
Morgan? Ans. Never. Jacob Smith.
1
Jeremiah JV. Potter, of South Kingston, oflawful age, on solemn oath,
doth declar.e and say in answer to the following interrogatories.
Ques. by committee. Are you or have you been a freemason; if so,
how many degrees have you taken, and when, and where ?
Ans. I am a freemason, and have taken three degrees; I took the
first thirty odd years ago in the lodge in N ^port, Moses Seixas then
master, and the two others a few years after, in Washington lodge,
South Kingston.
Ques. Have you read over the form of obligations contained in the
annexed paper marked A, and are they substantially correct ?
Ans. I have; mid they are correct ?
Ques. Have you ever considered that there was anything in your
masonic obligations incompatible with your moral, religious, social or
eivil oblgations? Ans. No.
Ques. What have you understood was the highest penalty any lodge
could inflict ?N Ans. Nothing but expulsion.
Digitized by L j Q O Q l e
148
Ques. Does not a mason, when he enters or leaves a lodge, make a
sign having reference to the penalty of his particular degree ?
Ans. I always considered it more out of respect to the master.
Ques. Have you ever heard a mason of respectable standing, advo­
cate or palliate the abduction or murder of Morgan? Ans. I never did.
Ques. by request. What other candidates were present when yon
was initiated? Ans. Dr. Case was also initiated with me at Newport.
Ques. by request. What address or charge was given to you by Mo­
ses Seixas at the time you was admitted, and what address or cnarges
in Washington lodge?
Ans. The address contained in the annexed paper marked A , from
the master to the candidate previous to administering the oath, is the
same as the one given to me, as near as I can recollect.
He saith in answer to a question, that he heard the annexed deposi­
tion of N. G. Boss read over, and that the same is correct so far as his
knowledge goes. Jeremiah N. Potter.
Alexander M. McGregor, of the town and county of Newport, of
lawful age, on solemn oath doth declare and say in answer to the fol­
lowing interrogatories.
Question by committee. Are you or have you been a freemason; if
so, how many degrees in masonry have you taken; by what lodges or
chapters were you admitted; and at what time ?
Ans. I am aVreemason and have taken three degrees. I took them
in Scotland about ten years ago, 1 think.
Quest. Have you read over the form of obligations contained in the
annexed paper marked A; if so, are those forms substantially Cqgrect?
Ans. They have been lead to me, and there is no material altera­
tion in them that I see. They are also substantially the same that I
have heard administered to candidates in St. John’s lodge in this town.
Quest. Have you ever considered that there was any thing in any
part of your masonic obligations, incompatible with any of your relig­
ious, moral, civil or social obligations or duties? ifyou have please to
point it out.
Ans. Have not so considered it. The masonic obligations were
administered to me with the assurance that they were not to interfere
with my religious, moral or civil opinions, and I took them with that
qualification.
Quest. What have you understood or believed to be the highest pun­
ishment any lodge could inflict upon any mason for any offence ?
Ans. Expulsion from the society.
Quest. Does not a mason when he enters or leaves a lodge, make a
sign having reference to and indicating the penalty of the oath taken in'
his particular degree ?
Ans. He does make a sigh on entering and leaving a lodge, and that
sign indicates his degree as a mason, and shows his right to enter.
Quest. Have you ever heard a mason of reputable standing advocate
or palliate the abduction or murder of Morgan? Ans. I never have,
A lx. M. M cGregor.
Digitized by Google
!»
State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
The aforegoing depositions of Mdses Thacher, Levi Chase, Abrahanv Wilkinson, Wm<
H arris, Barney Merry, Samuel Greene, Daniel Greene, Charles F. Searle, Bonington Ant
tbony, John Gardner, Ray Potter, Willard Ballon, Barney Phelps, Orrin Packard, John A.
K en t, Henry Lord, Caleb Sayles, Samuel Young, Thomas Truesdell, Lewis C. Brown,
JTease Brown, Samuel S. Peckham, William Vars, George Bowen, Thomas Sherman* James
M. Tuell, Benjamin Grinnell, Daniel .Howland, John Stevens, John Prentice, Benajah
W arner, William Trescott, Anson Potter, John Brown, Nathan Whiting, John Hall, Ed­
w ard Murphy, William Price, Stephen T. Nortbam, Benjamin W. Case, Robert R. Carr,
Samuel Carr, Benjamin U. Carr, Francis Carr, Isaac C. Peckham, George Knowles, Simoit
Newton, Peleg Almy, Isaac A. Dennis, Nicholas Hassard, George Howland, Bateman Mun-
ro , William Wilkinson, Barzillai Cranston, William C. Barker, Joseph S. Cooke, Christian
M . Nestell, Moses Richardson, Peter Grinnell, Philip Allen, Roger W. Potter, Thomas
Seekell, John Wilder, Luther Woodward, William Russell, Nathan M
< Wheaton, Paschal
A llen, John Trott, William Carr, William Collins, Seth Peck, Nathaniel Phillips, Miller
Barney, John Salisbury, Lewis Hoar, Cyril Martin, William Carr Jr., Henry W. Child, S.
Mauran, James Smith, Nicholas G. Boss, Stephen Ayrault Robinson, Thomas R. Gardner,
Peleg Clark, Henry J. Hudson, Stephen Cahoono, John G. Whitehome, John R. Stanhope,
Henry Y. Cranston, Isaac Stall, Stephen Deblois, William Coggeshall, David M. Cogges-
ball, Jeremiah IHiss, John Brown, Theopbilus Topham, Jacob Smith, Jeremiah N. Potter
and Alexander M. McGregor, contain the testimony which was taken by the committee ap­
pointed by the General Assembly ofsaid State at their October session, A. D. 1831, fully to
investigate and inquire into the causes, grounds, and extent of the charges and accusations
against freemasonry and masons in said state, and the said depositions were duly sworn to
and subscribed by the aforenamed deponents before the committee, or members of the com­
mittee, in the manner stated in their report.
B. HAZARD, -
JAS. F. SIMMONS,
LEVI HAILE,
STEPHEN B. CORNELL.
•
149
| Committee*
%
Digitized by Google
