{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__anonymous___proceedings_of_the_second_us_anti-masonic_convention.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings Of The Second Us Anti-masonic Convention","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SECOND
Uifdted SkUes Anti-Maaonic Commtion^
%
HBIiD AT BAJLTIMOR£» S£PT£AIBER» 1831*
JOURNAL AND REPORTS,
*
NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT AND
VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED S.TATES,
RESOLUTIONS,
ABDRESS TO THE PEOPLE.
V
*
BOSTON:
S<^£RE0TTPEO AT THE BOSTON TYPE A!«D STEREOTYPE FOUIfSStT.
183^
Digitized by Google
1
Ti n 3 -
.
JOURNAL.
The delegates having assembled in the AthenjEum, at 12 o'clock, M., on
motioiuof James Bdrt, of New York, John Rutherford, of New Jerse)',
was called to the chair ; and the Convention was organized by the choice of
the AiDowibg officers
JOHN C. SP£NC£B» of New YoA, JVeiMM.
. JOHN RUTHERFORD, of New Jeney,
JONATHAN SLOANE, of Ohio,
THOMAS ELDER, of Pennsylvaniay
JOHN BAILEY» of UanadiUKtta,
BENJAMIN F. HALLETT, of Rhode labmd,
EDWARD D. BARBER, of Vermont,
SHELDON C. LEAV ilT, of Connecticut,
CALEB EBIERY, Of New HunfMhiN^
On motion,—
Fb^e({, That places ibr reporteis of ^pnxieedmgs of this Convention
be asslgii^d by the preddent^
On motion of Mr. Phelps of Massachusetts,
Voted,, That the delegates present their credentials.
NiHely-nine delegates appeared and took their seats ;
and,
On informatior\ that Robert Hanna, of Cadiz, Harrison county. Ohio,
one of tlie vice-presidents of the United States Convention, held at Phila-
delphia lltli of September, 1830, is eight miles from this city, detained by
a firactured limb, occasioned by the breaking down of the staee while on his
wav to attend this Convention, on motion of Mr. Ward, of New York.—
i2e«ofoe<{, That the name of Robert Hahna be lecorded with the names
of the membeis of this Convention ftom Ohb, with the testimony of our
deep regret ibr the misfortune which has deprived this Convention of .the
pleasure of meeting him, and of the benefit of hb valuable services.
On motion of IMr. Walker, of Massachusetts,—
Votedy That a regular roll of the members of this Convention be now
made,, and that the state, county and town m which they reside, together
with their lodgings in this city, be fidiy designated.
966525
. kj .^L... l
y Google
4 SECOND NATIONAL ANTIpMASONIC CONVENTION.
«
On motion,-^
.Voted, That the secretaries be directed to psocure fiye Inmdred printed
copies of the roll.
On motion of Mr. Phelps, of Massachusetts,-^
Jlesohed, That a committee of one member fiom each state here repre-
sented, be appointed to lay before the ConveatioD the subjects proper for its
consideration. Messrs. Phelps, of Massachusetts, Ward, of New York,
JoNESj of Pennsylvania, Hallett, of Rhode Island, Cram, of Maine, £m*
ERY, of New Hampshire, Tebrt, of Connerticiit, Barber, of Vermont,
Vanderpool, of New Jersey, Sloane, of Ohio, (tifrins, of Delaware, and
SuiLiTER, of Maryland, were appointed on this coixuuittee.
On raotibn of Mr. Mobbis, of New York,
Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to wait upon the ven-
erable Charles Carroll, of Carrolhon, and invite him to be present at
the deliberations of tliis Convention. Messrs. Rutherford, of New Jersey,
Burt, of New )^ork, and Elder, of Pennsylvania^ were appointed on this
coittimttee.
On motion of Mr. Ward, of New York,—
Resolved, That the rules and orders of the United States Anti-Masonic
Convention held at Philadelphia, 11th Septpmher. 1R30, be made the rules
and orders of this Convention, until otht i ordered.
The Coavendon adjourned till four o'clock, P. M.
Four Q*clock, F, M.
Met, pursuant to adjournment.
' • Mr. rHELPs, from the committee appoint t d to lay before the Convenidoa
subjects proper for its consideration, presented ilit; following
BBPORT.
Whereas the United States Anti-Masonic Convention at Philadelphia,
on the I7tb of Septembisr, 1830, ' resolved to rec<»nmend to the people of
the United States, opposed' to secret societies, to meet in convention oti the
S6th day of September, 1831, at Baltimore, by delegates, equa! in number
to their representatives in both houses of Congress, to make nominations
of suitable candidates for the offices of president and \'ice-president of the
United States, to be supported at the next election, and for tlie transac-
tion of such other business as the cause of anti-masonry may require and
whereas this Convention is now assembled for those purpi^s ;
—^your com-
•^mittee respectfuily recununend,
" 1st. That tne naticxial anti-masonic committee be recjuested to pre-
sent their report.
** 9d. That a committee bc iippomted to ascertam fiom the most approved
masonic publications, previous to the year 1826, the true construetioa of ma-
sonic penalties, and rejport thereon.
" 3d. That a committee be appointed to prepare a brief history of the judi-
cial proceedings which have been had to discover and punish the offenders
concerned in the kidnappii^ and murder of William Moig^ ; of the eSkM
Digitized by Google
•f-
MR. WARPMi AEPOJBtT. 5
to msdtute those iMroceedings, and of the drcumstances ^hich occunsd in
those effiirts and proceedings, evincii^ the agency of the
in their attempts to defeat the admmislration of justice.
" 4th.. That a committee be appointed to prepare resolutions expressive
of the sense of this Convention relative to the great subjects on which it is
convened.
5th. That lliis Convention go into a committee of the whole, to-morrow
at 12 o'clock, M., for the nomination of suitable candidates, to be sujjpoited
by the anti-masons of the United States^ at the next election of president
and vjce-presidfeDt of the United States ; that the votes be taken by ballot,
separately for each of thqae candidates, and that the votes of three fourths
of all the membein^cpreis^t/be considered necessary to constitute a choice.
. 6th. That a.cQDUiiit^ be appointed to prepajre an address to the people
of the United States.
" 7th. Tliat a committee be appointed to superintend the publication of
the proc'eedings of this, and such parts of the last« United States Anti-Ma-
sonic Convention, as they may deem expedient.
** 8th. That a committee on finance be appointed.
" All which is respectfully submitted, per order of the committee.
, ^ . . Abneb Phelps, Chairman,'*
• •
•
The report was read, and each resoihitkm separatdy considered and unaiH
imously adopted. ' '
^ *
.
*
On motion of Mr. Hopktxs, of New York,— •
Resolved, That a committee of three membei*s of this Convention be
oppomted to wait upon the lion. .Chief Justice Mabshaix, of the Supreme
Court of the United States, and to invite him to attend the sittmgs of this
Convention.
Messrs. Hopsms, of New York, Jones, of Pennsylvania, and Waueer,
of Massachusetts, were appc^ted said committee.
Mr. Wabd, from the national .committee of correspondence, made a re-
port, which was read, and ordered to lie on the table.
itSPORT. OF THE XATIONAL. CORKESFOTmXG COMMlMBB OP
THC AI«TI-MA30KIC X>£JlfOC&ATIC. PARTY.
.
'
'
*
'
Baltimore, Sept. 26th, 1831.
"
"The Committee of Correspondence, whose special duty is defined, in
the resolution appointinj; them, to be, 'to correspond with the several
committees, and with individuals iji the several states and territories, for the
purpose of difiusmg informatioQ upon the subject of freemasonry, and otlier
secret combmations against the equal rights ofmankind, and our free idstitu*
tions,' respectfully report
'^Information upon the subject of freemasonry is extended throughout the
republic No portion of the community is without some knowledge of the
power and depravity of the masonic system. North of the I^otomac, and
north-west ofthe Ohio, every staie, and the teiritory of Michigan, is iliuminar
Digitized by Googl
6 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
ted with the beacon flame of a free press, sending light into the diiHc loccases .
of the lodges. The fiatemiQr shrink where it oomes; their badges of dish-
tinetion &U off, or they wear them with a desperate eti^rt, once to lay a cor-
ner stone of a masonic temple, and again, rarely, to icelebrate the day of
ancient St. John.
" Few are left of the brotherhood, In that section of the cotmtry where
free presses are established , who take any pleasure in avowing their connex-
ion with the order. Commonly, tlie first words, after confession of being a
mason, are, '
I have not been in a lodge these three years, or five, or ten, or
even twenty years ;' leaving us distinctly to infer, that the confessor wishes
it were in his power to say he had never been in a lodge. ii
^'Wherever anti-masons go, they promulgate *their opuiJons, and the ftcts
they rest on ; and whoever passes thhnigh we anti-masonic districts, will not
fiul to. receive testimony of the crimes of freemasonry. It is due to 'the
blessed sjMrit'—as a distinguished judge* rightly deiKiminated the spirit of
anti-masonry—to declare, that it makes eloquent the tongue of its humblest
possessor; insomuch that the unsophisticated, but intelligent yeoman, imbued
with it, proves himself, in the cnnal-bont, nviA steamer and sto^e-coach, in the
house and by the way-side, an overmatch for the learned df Tenders of the
secret order : few who grapple with such an one, fail of being shameiiilly
worsted in the argument.
** A cause that enhsts the feelings of its advocates, and that will bear tlie
lest of the strictest scrutiny^, cannot fail to make conyerts. It does make
converts. *
Uke the towenne oak, the democratic ieuiti-masonic party iiits up
itself against the aristocratic nalemity, until the freemen of fifteen states are
already refreshed with its salutary inflnence and sheltered with its piptecting
branches.
Of the presses which, to the number of about 160, are open to the exam-
ination <rf freemasonry, not one is doubtful upon the nature of the masonic
institution ;
and, wnth a few exceptions, the rem-jinint^ portbn of the pubhc
press either avoid the subject altogether, or revile tiie new party, as a most
unprincipled faction. This presents tlie curious fact, that one sixth part of
the American press is earnestly devoted to a 7i€w cause, which^ the remain-
ing five sixths do not consider it important to examine. Never, in the history
of a free press, bave we seen anpr thing like tins before.
" Anotherremarkable peculianty in me present state ofthe American press,
is this : Wherever the' cry the people becomes imperative for infontiation
vlpoa the subject of freemasonry, it is mvariably necessary to establish a new
press, ot to enter into" special arrangements with some old one to give it. No
mstance has occurred, withinour knowledge, of an old press's having frankly
and steadily spoken the opinions of its rondnctors against the insihution of
freemasonry, unle'^'' with some suitable guaranty neainst the certain loss of
patronage : and furthermore, every leading paper in the anti-masonic demo-
cratic party, is, in all the larger states, a new paper, and their names gener-
ally indicate their character as free, m distinction from those shackled by
masonry, or as furnishing light upon a dark subject, or as reviving principles,
which freemasonry has violated and trodden under foot:—the Free iress.
Sun, Star, Whig, Republican, &c.
« «'
Gov. Throop of New York, when, a judge on the beikcb, he prontfiinced NVtaaM
upon tbo oonftiMd xnan-stMlem.**
Digitized by Google
MR. WARD'S R£fORT. 7
t t
"The papers which have opened their columns lo infonnation upon the
subject of masonry, or have been established purposely to afford it, within
the last year, are, in .
.
Maine.
The Free Press, Hallowell, (New.)
New HamfMrt*
The Post; HayeiiuU, (Old.)
Meutathttteits,
The Courier, New Bedford, (Old.)
The FrankSn Freeman, Deeifield, (New.)
' •
The Telegraph, Boston, (New.) ^
•
*
Rhode Island.
The Daily Advertiser^ Providence, (Old.)
Connecticut..
The Free Freas, ToUend, (New.)
JVetir York.
The Daily Whig, city of New York, (New.)
'
The Reimblicaii Banner, Montgomery, Orange ooonty, (New.)
The Anti-Mason, Poughkeepsie, (New.)
•
The Envoy, Hudscm, (New.)
The Standard, Schenectady, (Removal.)
The Northern Light, Ogdensburg.
The Watchman, semi-weekly, Troy, (New.)
'
. Village Chronicle, Dansville, Livingston county, (Old.)
Tioga Clironicle, Horse Heads, Tioga county, (New.)
Steuben Register, Bath, Steuben county, (Wew.)
The Anti-Masonic Republican, Courtlaud village, (New.)
Allegany Republban, Angehca, Allegany county, (New.^
"Besides uiese, the Commercial Advertiser, in the city of New York,
the Journal, at Buffido, the Intelligencer, at Poughkeepsie, and many others,
which, a year ago, maintained the institutkm of masonry, now g^ve it op to
spuming and contempt.
Delaware.
The £xposit(Hr, Wilmington^ (New.)
Meayhnd,
The Free Press, Hagerstown, (New.)
Ohio.
The Ohio Register and Re\iew, Columbus.
Infidelity Unmasked, Cincinnati, (New.)
Repubhcan, Dayton, (Old.).
**Of the spread of anti-masonic information, as we liave no proof more
oonduave, so we htive none more gratifying, than the humUed tone of the
Iratennly itself. They axe not so soro ik &etenuty of the order, as they
Digitized by GoogI(
8' SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-AiASOiNiC; CONVENTION.
were a year ago. Not only secret whispers of givibg h up have been hc^ard,
but the distinct report of loud, though unsucoeasfiil attempts, to disaolve thm
grand lodges, has reached the pubhc ear. The Vennoiit Grand Liodge, to
prevent its being taken away, surrendered to the legislature its legal charter.
Many of its members, at a recent political caucus, in Montpelier, openly dis-
cussed and confessed the propriety of a masonic dissolution. But the Grand-
Lodge itself has since deferred the proposal, thus clearly showing the dif-
ference in the opinions of men acting openly in convention and acting secretly
in a lodge. The same proposal was also rejected, it is said, in IVIassachu-
setts; and in New York, it was not even brought before the Grand Lodge.
** We would not forget here to acknowledge llie patriotic foresight of tlie
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Rhode Island, in publicly annulling the
obligations of all master nuisons withm their jurisidictkm, *reqvmw them to
do any tMng wrongJ—To ail the grand fiatemities, which are determined
still to bluid and swear our young men, in the manner of masonry, we reo
ommend this example.
"The Grand Lodge of New York, in the exercise of the same patriotic
spirit, at their last annual meeting in the city of New York, appointed a special
committee, '
ta inquire into the eipediency of drafting an address to the pub-
lic, and also the jjroprietij of cx])clling those persons who have been con-
victed of crime.' This timid desire to defend itself before the publicj was
first manifested 2d June last: on the following day, the committee on the
subject of expulsions reported ; and the Grand Lodge adopted and passed
this preamble and resolution :
* fVhereas it hath been alleged, that an outrage has been committed
on the body of William MoRiGAN ; and whereas proceedings, in consequence of
such aHeffationSf have been made in omr courts ofjustice in relation to the sub*
ject ; and whereas, by means of foul misrepresentation,' an effort has been
made to impress the public mind with an opinion, that the Grand Lodge, and
the fraternity in general, have attempted to screen, if not protect, the perpe*
trators of this alTes^ed outrage : —therefore
" * Resolved, That the grand secretary be instructed to ascertain from the
public records a statement of the facts in relation to the persons said to have
been masons^ charged and convicted of the abduction of Morgan ; and report
to this Grand Lodge at the nea^ mmuxd commmicaiion,^
Tins preamble and resolution, from a body having, in 1895, upwards
of 500 constituent lodges of freemasons, in some of which lodges the * out-
rage alleged to have been committed on the body William Morgan' was
openly discuBsed^ before it was committed—and urom a .body having in itself
persons actually concerned in that outrage—and having on its official records
a charitable donation of ^'100 to n brother ma5Jon, then suspected, and since
corn icted, of a hi2;h part in tliat outrage,—^is proof indubitable, to show the
bhnd resolulion of the fraternity, and their infatuated attachment to their mys-
tery. It v^Qiiid be incredible that men in ti.eir circumstances should not
know '
<m outrage has been connnittcdon the body of Wiiiiaui Morgan,' only
that they themselves pronounce the fact a mere rumor, a thing not certain,
but * alleged' Their instmclion to their grand secretary, also, to procure
' the &cts in relatbn. to the persons, said to have been masons, charged and
convicted of the abduction of Morg9n,'.is lamentable proof of their ignorance
Digitized by Googlc
MR. WARD'S EEPORT. 9
f
!
In AMtttefs of the gimtest notoriety) and also proofoftlie depraving ienden^ I
of freemasoniy. \
" As a committee of information, we feel it our duty to declare, that the
light of tnitli, which awakens the nation to new views of the character and
aims of the order of masonry, strikes last, or not at all, upon adhering free-
'
masons. This is not owing to their want of understanding, but, in a great i
rncasiue. to the prcjud confidence with which the spirit of the myster}' in-
j
spires tlieu- hetuls, tu believe it is as good as it is old, and tliat it is as old j
as creation ; that It is as piofiiund tti it is heautifiil, and that it b as beau- |
tiiul as king Solomon could make it ; and that it is as charitable as it is holy
and so holy that the holiest of men have in. all ages patronized it. Thej i
believe it, and without censuring in severe terms their folly, or ridiculing )
their absurdity^ it is our duty m take knowledge of the fact, and to take aU
our measures accordingly. Although the wiser sort of the fraternity e;ive up
some of its most vain-glorious pretensions, it is yet a melancholy truth, that
many among tiie pure, and learned, and patriotic of our fellow citizens, not
only in ilieir hearts reverence, but in public praise the goodness, and the
science, and the charity of freemasonry.
" Without inquiring how far the countenance of great names, and the cover-
ing of stolen feathers, may have gone honestly to convince thousands of our i
Mow citizens of the excellence and purity ot the principles of fireemasonry, 1
thousands are convinced of it, and they are the most conrinced, who, in the
pride of masonry, shut tlieir eyes and. stop their ears to every thmg said
ag£unst the order, which adhering mason?? commonly do, with great hardness
oi heart. Thoy will not read a newspaper eiven them, or a pamphlet pre- ;
sented, or a \ olume opened To their hand, if it is against freemasonry ;
and |
any thmg spolien in contempt of the mystery, either irritates them out of '
reason, or vexes them into silence. It is impossible to get the truth before
them—iliaL truth which makes all men free, and without which any of ua
might he a' freemason.
*' Not only are the firatemity ignorant of the great &ets in this controversy,
'
counting (or rumor that which is proved a &ct in many courts of justice ; Init
they are exceedingly misinformed on many important points, which they
think they do know. They do not say, * it hath been alleged' that the an*
t»-masons are a proscrii^tive, intolerant, and selfish party ; nut tliey afirm :
that the whole object of the party, is to make political gain out of moral sui-
cide, nnd to turn the honest indignation a^^ainst the ^inatics who slew Mor-
'
gan, Jiito a fanatical crusade against all the masons. They are concerned to
know what their fate will be, when they have lost their power, some of them
really fearing an act of outlawry against all who have sworn the oatli of a
mason. • .
The committee present these thine;? as^acts, having a great influence
upon the public mind, and shutting up the avenues to a nght knowledge of
anti-masonry, in the minds of thousands, especially of those to whom thb
knowledge is in every %ense the must important, the masons themselves.
For, when they come really to understand the subject, they will give up
their obligations of mortal penalties ; and when these are surrendered, the
masonic controversy and the public and private dissensions springing out of ,
it, will sink, with the mystery, into oblivion, Policy, as well as charity, and
Digitized by Google
8EC017D NATIONAL ANTMIAaONig CONVENTION.
the interest of the party, as well as the love of country, would seem to re-
quire that in every measure ue adopt, to inform the puhiic mind, we should
pay particular attention to these deaf and blind, and somctniK s perverse
citizens, endeavoring to gain their attention, by all tlie innocciii uietliods,
which love adopts, to inculcate essential, hui unpaiataUe tiuths, upon igno-
rant minds. To iret them with hard names, however well deserved, will
defeat our own desire of briaging them early to conviction of the hyf>ocrisy
^and wanton illegality of lireemasonry. But if we take them on their own
^jund of honestly supporting an institution, of which Washington was, and
Lafayc^tte is, a member, and then proceed, on their honesty, to show them,
that an institution which requires of its members a sacrifice of tlieir lives, if
they say mah-hali-bone ; and lays tlieni under an everlasting curse, if they
fail to do many things, which, in the literal lernis of its oaths, every sensible
man mu^t admit to be morally WTong ;
they will be constrained, in their
ftoncsti/f to admit, that such an institution ou^hl to he abandoned by all good
citizens, and that men who persist iii supporting it arc proper objects of pub-
He distrust.—After admitting so much, they will not be obstinate adherents
of masonry a great while.
.
" Among the interesting facts showing the spread of inionnatioo, and the
growth of our cause, we name with pleasure the results of the electionsi
These, in every secdon of our coqntry, where fi:eemasonry is brought before
the grand inquest of the people, and subjected to examination at tlie poUs^
never fail to show the increasing -power of anti-masonry. The simple facts
wliich follow^ are n fair representation of the progress of anti-masonry in
New York, and furnish data, on which safely to calculate its future proe;res3
in the Union:—In 1827, the first anti-masonic tickets were run, and they
gained 17,000 votes in local elections.
In 1828, was a general election, in which the anti-masonic ticket received,
ID New York, 34,000 votes.
** In 18S9, in the local elections, anti-masonic tickets received* an aggre*
gate of 67,000 votes.
In 1830, came again a general election, and the anti-masonic ticket re<*
ccived 120,000 votes. It is said that these last were not all anti-masons;
ive admit it ; but we ch'^m two for nnti-masoniy &om the 128,000 against
us, where we yield one of the 12U,0U0 with us.
"Tlie first aiiti-nm=^onic general ticket in the state of Veniiont. was run in
September, 1829, and gained 7,000 votes ; in 1830, 10,000 vuics ; and this
year the anli-masonic ticket has received upwards of 15,000 votes, bemg a
plurality above the other national parties in the state.
^'
The council being anti-masomc, Vermont mllprobahly lead the anti-ma
sonic party of the union in the administration of executive and legislative
power. We cannot fail to congratulate our friends in Vermont, en the ^o»
rious result of their untiring efl6rts to shake off the reins of masonry ; and
i^bp to rejoice that the public are about to have a sample of anti-masonry in
power, which, judging as well from the known character of our Vermont
friends, as from the principles of human nature, tdat the brave in battle are
generous in victory, will go far to calm the feai's of those who ex]">ect. with
the reign of the new party, a reign of t&nar in the overthrow of our old and
a^jgroved institutions,. ^
- .
«
Digitized by Google
MR. WARD S REPORT. 11
"In Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Ohio,
the elections of the past year have not afforded a test of the full strength of
our cause ; but from the local and partial specimens furnished, no doubt is
entertained of the progress of anti-masonry, in those states, corresponding
with its established character in New York and Vermont. In Connecticut,
this year, for the first time, anti-masonry took the field with a candidate,
running against a uniort royal arch brother, nominated by both the other
national parties. Under circumstances so hopeless of success, our national
cause gained nearly one third of the whole vote given.
It is within the year that a forged report of a trial was put extensively
in circulation, at the same moment, by freemasons, over an extent of up-
wards of 170 miles, to prostrate the confidence of our tried fi-iends, daring
the three days of a most interesting election. Within the same time, the
most important trials of the kidnappers have occurred at Lockport ; on which
trials, another of the judges of the Supreme Court of New York added his
decision to the decisions of his distinguished predecessor in these trials, * that
the obligations of masonry, understood in their hteral and unqualified form,
to require a mason to extend favor to a brother mason, wherever he may be,
whether in or out of court, on trial for crime, or about his usual concerns,
will constitute good ground of challenge of a masonic juror for favor and the
court did set aside such juror, on such a challenge, fully sustained by the
testimony of adhering as well as seceding masons. And here it was that
the unierstnn ling of Mr. William Wilson, on challenge, failed him on trial
for when his eleven compeers consented, at once, to a verdict of guilty, un-
der a plain charge to that effect from the same judge, he held out thirty-six
hours for Elisha Adams, in peril of a prison, and finally compelled the court
to discharge the ji^y, without a verdict, and so rescued his brother mason
from his difficulty, whether he was right or wrong.
"Time would fail us to enumerate the facts under this head, which have
occurred in the past twelve-month, making a deep and lasting impression of
the corruption of masonic obligations in the trial by jury. We cannot refuse,
however, to mention a very recent case at Albany, where, on trial of a libel
suit, the masonic judge, on the most precise legal scruples, refused much
evidence that the charity fund of the self-styled Most Excellent Grand
Chapter of New York has been used to shield or defend absconding, in-
dicted, or convicted manstoaJPi's. Enough was admitted, however, to bring
the records of the Grand Chapter into court, and from them, in court, to
show, that, in the same session that they solemnly denied, individually and
collectively, all knowledge of the outrage upon Capt. Morgan, and publicly
denouifced the deed, the Grand Chapter secretly appropriated one thousand
COLLARS to trustees of their body, for charitable purposes, which the treas-
urer, nor the chapter, nor the records can tell how the tnistees appropriated
but the public learn, by the testimony adduced on this trial, that they spent
it to the satisfaction of the Grand Chapter, for the objects the chapter had
in view, in entrusting it to them ; and that hundreds of it went, either to
kidnappers, or to settle the debts of kidnappers, springing out of the violation
of tl;e laws in the case of William Morgan,—and this, too, at the very time
the treasurer of said trustees was acting, or pretending to act, on a committee
of the citizens of Rochester, where he resided, to ferret out, and to bring to
justice, the daring manstealers.
Gc
12 BEGOHD SATlOSiAL AOTI-MASOMIC CQMVENTION.
i
"Thus It has corne recently to public view, that while De Wtt Clinton,
the governor of New York, was holding up ^2000 in prospective reward^
to any discoverer of the fate of Morgan, the bretiiren, in the Grand Chapter
at the city of Albany, where he resided, and in the Grand Lod^e at thecity-^
of New laskf were secretly putting into the pockets of the fiiithiul a gen-'
emus sum, to help them bear the test of public scrutinr and, iurtheimorey
that considerable sums- were raised by oontnbution and voluntary subserip*
tion among the brethren at large, for the same purpose, according as the
liberality of individuals prom})ted them ; while it was known before, that one
chapter of royal arch masons in the city of New York voted $500 from its
funds to the use and benefit of tlie same rebels acralnst the laws and the
peace of the country, under the name of the •
IVtsttrn Sufferers.^ From
the manner in which these facts have come to light, after long concealment,
and from the nature of all the circuniitances, we are led to believe that the
half is not yet told, and that these are but tlie beginning of the proois to show
the extensiye range of the Morgan conspiracy.
" No single event of the past year has done more to difilise mformation?
against fieemasoniy than the call of the committee of York county, Penn^
sylvania, anti-roasoos upon their distinguished fellow citizen. In every en*
lightened country, and especially in ours, the deliberate opinion of an incfe-
pendent yeoman, endowed with the highest moral, literary, and political at-
tainments, is certain to command the attention of all careful readers. It is
the glory of a patriot, that, having gained a good name in the service of his
country, he is neither airaid nor ashamed to give its voluntary support to the
laws and institutioDS of tlie republic, m controversy with an aristocratic
bpotherhood* The responsilulities of office are chains of bondage, only while
worn ; discharged with fidelity, and laid off without reprwh, they prepare
a man to- exert a mighty sway over the public mind, on any emergency of
libeity^ as is admii|ibly illustrated in the public letters on the subject of iiee^
masonry, by the Hon. Richard Rush.
A later production, from the pen of the venerable and highly gifted ex-
president Adams, has brought tiie support of another champion to the
righteous cause ol anti-masonry, and burled the keen dart of truth into the
very forehead of the mystery.
,
" Keeping strictly in view the utter anniiiilaiion of the system of freema-
sonry, and the dissolution of the unhallowed ^ment which binds the living
temple of mystic brotliers to their mystery, aft to one another, perseverance
» necessary in the use of those means, which have ahready been so success-
ful. Undeniable facts, and spirited measures, have, in a few short years,
brought the deceived and deluded followers of the lodge-room to reftectioo,
and have not only withheld the better sort of the fraternity innn attending
on its mysteries and waiting at its altar, but haye deeply impressed upon them
the duty of publicly abandoning it altogether. Such a step alone will heal
llie divisions caused in society by the order of masonry. Toward this hon-
orable body all eyes are turned, for the adoption of such finn, whe, and tem-
Serate measures, as shall hasten the time, when the public mind, now ruf-
ed by violent concussions of the falling hierarciiies and powers of li eema-
lonry, shall be restored to its wonted composure and peace ; when the *din,
powmg out of the maaoBic viqlatioD of our rights ud liberties, shall
Digitized by Googl
JOUBMAL or PBOCEBDING0. 13
eeaitd in the voluntary dbolition of the mystic order, and when tbe oold
murder of an American citizen, by the myrmidons of the lodge*ioom, shaU
have been satisfactoiily atoned by the public tnai, eondenuiation^ and ebnh
^tion of guilt y freemasonry.
"All which is respectfully submitted,
HENRY Dana Ward.
Samuel St. John,
Henry Cotheal,
National Committee of Correspondence^'* \
On mplJQii of Mr. Russhli., of New York, the preadent was appomted
cfaainnan of the cmnmittee on the history of judicial proceedings.
'
TTie president announced the appointment of die following coiumiLLees
On the Construction of Matonie Penalties.
Messrs. Hallett, of Rhode Island; Lsabnxd, of Maine; Mobbis, of
New York; Gjumshaw, of Pennsylvania; Wabneb, of Ohio.
On History of Judicial Proceedings, ^c.
Messrs. The President; ()<;i of Pennsylvania ;
Walker, of Massachu-
setts; GiBBiNs, of Delaware ;
Russell, of New York.
On Resolutions.
Messrs. Ward, of New York ;
Mott, of Massachusetts ; Clabke, of Penn-
sylvania; VooaBEES, of New Jersey; Rising, of Vermont
On an Address to the People of the United States.
Messrs. HoLLET, ol Aew York ;
Denny, of Pennsylvania; Alung, of New
Jersey; Leavitt, of Connecticut.
On Publication of Proceedings.
Mesns. Pbelts, of Massachusetts ;
Hopkins, of New York; Foots, of
New York.
On Finance.
Messrs. Irwin, of Pennsylvania ;
Boynton, of Connecticut; Boughton, of
New York ; Jenkins, of Ohio ;
Shriyer, of Maryland.
Mr. Hopkins, firom the committee to wait on the Hon. Chief^ Justice ...^
Mabshall, S:^c., reported, that the conunittee had performed that 'senrkse,
and received for answer that he was expecting to leave the city to-morrow
monung, otherwise would have attended with great pleasure.
Convention adjoiinied to ten o'clock to-monow inoniing.
Tuefday^ S^ember 27, 10 o'clock, A. M»
Met, pursuant to adjournment.
The proceedings of yesterday were read by the secretary.
Me=^?rs. Oi^ivER, of Massachusetts; Harvey, Hei5?ter, Riegle, Bur-
BOWES, Waters, and Stevens, of Pennsylvania; Ba&er, of Ohio; and
Strong, of New York, appeared and took their seats.
Digitized by Google
14 8EGOHD lUTKURAL Atm-MA801II0 OONVEMTION.
A kiter directed to the president of the CoDTentkm from Samuel Sni^
TENS, a delegate from New York, was presented and read to the Conven-
tion, and, on motion of Mr. Seward, of New York, was ordered to be en*
tered at large on the Journal of the Convention*
IiETTBB«
*'2h theFrmden( of the Anii'Matonic Ckmvmtion convened ai BaUimore,
i ^'Sir, \
''Havlnc been appointed one of the delentes from the citv of
New Yoik to attend the Anti-Masonic Convention, which convenes at IBaltt-
more on the 26th instant, I cannot leave unexpressed to the Convention my
regrets at not being able to attend. My official duties, at the present time,
detaining me here, for the trial of some capital offences^ deprives me of the
honor of participatins; in your deliberations.
"I feel great confidence that your honorable body will nominate to the
American people, as a candidate for president, some individual citizen, wlio
does, by his practices and opinions, disapprove of the continuance in our
country of an association of men, who are not only extensive in numbers,
but powetfiil m Ofg^nization, and who are distributed throi]|^ every part of
the United States, and who, to say the least of them, are exempt, by the-
principles of their compact, from that most powerful, in our country, of all
correctives, the Argus c} es of an intelligent people, and the supervisory palla-
^um of our liberty, a free press. *
"Permit me to hope, gentlemen, that your deliberations will be as agree-
able to yourselves, as I feel confident they will be benehcial to our country.
VVitli great respect, I remain
" Your very obedient and humble servant,
«^ew YwTc, September 23, ISSl"
\ Mr. HoPKiKS, of New Tork, announced that Chief Justice Marshall,
having been tmexpectedly prevented from leaving the city, would soon be -in
/ the hall, to attend the deliberations of the Convention.
Mr. RuTBBRFOKD, of New Jersey, from the committee appointed to watt
on the venerable Charles Carroll, of Carrofiton, and invite him to be
present at the deliberations of the Convention, reported,
** That the committee have seen the secretary of Mr. Carroll, Mr. Nelson,
and are informed that Mr. Carroll left this city in the month of June last f<Mf
his country residence in the manor of Carrollton, sixteen miles from this city,
and that he is not expected to return until the montli of October, and that he
is in good liealtli, but Is desirous to avoid the fatigue of journeys to and from
tlie city. The committee, therefore, did not proceed to Carrollton yesterday,
more especially as the weatlier w d^ mclemeiii, and tlie vi;5it and journey would
occupy part of two days."
On motion of Mr. Phelps , of Massachusetts,
Voted, That the time appointed to nominate candidates for president and
vic^ijiresident of tlie United States, be postponed till to-morrow at 10 o'clock,
Digitized by GoogI
MR. HALLWrS RXPOAT. 15
ifr. Datis, of Vflmoiit, wbimltecl the lb]k)iwiD|; raibhilicMv-**
\ MUi^hed^ That tfak Convetitioii wSI adjourn wtthoot day on Wedneadaj
next, the 28th mattoit
Ofderod to fie od the table*
On motion of Mr. Hallett, ofHhode Island,—
Baidoedy Tha||h6 resohition of thia Convention, inviting the venerable
CHABLEa Cakroi«l, of Canollton, to be present at the proceeding of this
Coaveiition, together with tiie report of the comniiitee appohled on that reso^
lution, be transcribed and certified hy the officers of this Convention, and com-
municated to Mr. Cabrou:«.
Mr. Burt, of New York, called Ibr the reading of the rules and orders
of the Conventioii, which were accordingly read.
Chief Justice Marshall, inti-oduced by Mr. Hopkins, of New York, ap-/
peared iu uiQ hall, in pursuance of the invitation given bim, and took a seat
to attend the deliberations of the ConvenUon#
Mr. Hallett, from the commiltec appointed to report on the construction
of masonic penalties^ ^c, presented a report, which was read and laid on the
table.
*
ifASOmC CONftTBirCTIOV OV MASONIC P£NAI.TIBS.
'^The committee appointed to ascertain, from the most approved masonic
publications previoas to the year 18S6, the true construcdon of masonic pen-
alties, beg leave to- report:
" Does the phki, literal, unequivocal meaning of the terms in which ma-
sonic pcnnhics are expressed in masonic oaths, impose upon the candidate
receiving the oath, a bodily punishment, should he disclose the secrets of
masonry, or violate any part of liis oath, that must result in death ?
"Is this penally invariably imposed in every masonic oatli, under dilTerent
forms of infliction in different degrees, but all meaning death, and notiiing but
death ; and is there no other penalty (such as expukion) but death, expressed,
implied, sanctioned or required, in an^ of the oadis.of any of the degrees ?
If sucharethen|ttire and literal signification of the penalties, what arathe
constructions and expanations (if atiy) put upon those penalties, by the most
authentic, the most moral, and the most approved books and puUic addresses
on freemasonry, published under the sanation of lodges, chapters and encamp-
ments of masons, before the purity of masonic principles and practices was
called in que'^tton, in consequenee of the outrap^e upon William .Nlorgan ?
" This is an interesting and imporv.ujt braneh of iiujuiry afleetins; masonry,
which, though frequently alluded to, we do not remember to have seen any
where distinctly and connectedly traced, throu2;h the principal works emanat-
ing fjx>m lodges and chapters, in a form of illustration, quotation and reference,
tiat cannot be misunderstood or refuted.
^ If the committee are correct in thb suggestion, it will he time profitably
spent, that may be devoted to as concise an examination of this subject, as its
nature tvill admit, consistent with a foil and fair developeroent of masonie
Digitized by Google
16 SBOOND Nahoral Aim*afA0oaic oqnveiitioii;
pnociples on this one pQiDt, m; Do masonic books and masonic writers of
the highest authori^ fecogmse and sanction the literal application of tte
penalties, as imposed in masonic oaths, for a violation of those oaths ? -
" What is the construction put upon the terms in which masonic penalties
are expressed, by masons themseh'es, in the highest and most authenUc pub-
lications, which they themselves have voluntarily given to i^e world ? This
is a fair test, and we are willing to abide by it. It is testinj^masonry by ma-
sonry itself, and ^t by anti-masonrv. If we prove that the language of
tl)^ p(|nilties reads ^oA and nodiing hut death, and yet are told by adhering
midons, who admit this &ct, that nevertheless it means nothing but expukaon^
Sfh^tsurely find this mild' construction' (if it be the genome masome inter*
tation) somewhere laid down, or at least aHuded to, in the numerous books
extolling the prindples of masonry, which masons have published. If, on the
'
odier hand, it means just as it says, the infliction of the penalty of death for
disclosing masonic secrets, we shall probably find in these books sqi^e signifi-
cant allusion, some forcible illustration, or some open sanction of that mean-
ing ;
or, at any rate, if we find'neither of these alternatives adopted, there
will be an entire and guarded silence maintained throughout these masonic
writings, touching the construction to be put upon the penalties.
1^ instance. Suppose an infidel should allege that the articles subscrib-
ed to by every member of a religious society bound him to saiBkt death, it*
ever he apostatized from the Chnsdan religion. Suppose be should notoanly
show that such was the literal meaning of the articles subscribed to, but should
So
further, and produce from the New Testament numerous distinct prece-
entS| precepts and injunctions, of that plain and palpable import, without a
passage being found in the whole book, contradicting or explaining away such
construction. Suppose, too, he should give quotations irom the published
sermons of eminent divines, fully sustaining and enforcing tliis construction,
and predicting der.th to the first man who should apostatize. If this were
literally done, could it lie in the mouth of a Christian professor to say, that
he or nis church did not put tliis construction upon the penalty, and they only
understood it to mean expulsionj although the membeis of a neighboring
'churchy havii^ precisely toe same artbles of frdth, had recently put one dt
^eir number, who had apostatized, to death, and were protected by that
church, and held in full fellowship and communion by all Christian churches
throughout the land ^
^
" This case is precisely parallel to the one we are in\'?stigating.
" The first position to be demonstrated is, that the language of masonic
oaths declares death to be the penalty for disclosirlg masonic secrets. On no
point of tlic disclosures of masonry have masons been more stienuous in tlieir
denials of the allegations made by seceders ; and witli politic reason too, well
knowing that the implication of their institution in the murder of Morgan de-
pends upon the conviction of tlie public mind, as to this fact.
What, then, is the language of masonic penalties? Without referring to
tbe numerous judicial trials, in which the terms of these penalties have been
as distinctly proved as human testimony can prove any thing, we will take
tlie concessions of tlie Grand Lodge of Rhode Island, in a recent investiga-
tion into the nature of masonic penalties.
Hiat Grand Lodge^ composed, we belieye, of as upright men as any grand
uiyili^oo by GoOglc
MR HALLETT S REPORT. It
lodge in the Union, in an address to the people of Rhode Island, June 13th, I
1831, through a committee of eight respectable individuals, said,— I
" * We solemnly aver, in tlie sight of heaven, and appeal to the great
Searcher of hearts to test our sincerity, that we have never received, given
nor countenanced, any obligation, requiring or sanctioning the sacrifice of life,
as the penalty for disclosing masonic secrets.'
" This asseveration was met by the positive statement of nine seceding ma- j
sons, as unimpeachable as the committee of the Grand Lodge, giving the.
precise terms of the penalties of the three first degrees, as administered to |
them in Rhode Island lodges, and challenging the Grand I^odge committee '
to pronounce theu" statement false, under a pledge, if they did so, to test the^
trutli by an action for libel in a court of law.
" In their reply, published the 5th of August, 1831, the committee of the^« ,
Rhode Island Grand Lodge admit fully tlie precise language of the penalties,
as stated by the Rhode Island seceders, notwithstanding their former solemn |
denial. They say, in their second address, * We might safely admit that the
penal clause is stated 'by Messrs. Potter, Chase, and others, in correct Ian'
guageJ* Again they say, * We will not dispute with the. gentlemen referred
to with respect to dicir Ia?iguage.^
" That language is as follows ;
and we now lay it down, as fully admitted i
by a grand lodge of masons in this country, diat the penahies of the three
first degrees of masonry are in the following letters and words, to wit :
Penal clauses of Masonic Oaths. I
" 1 . In the entered apprenticed oath. * Binding myself under no less
penalty, than to have my throat cut across, my tongue torn out by the roots,
and my body buried in the rough sands of tlie sea, where the tide ebbs and
flows twice in twenty four hours.' • ;
"2. In the felloiv crafts oath. 'Binding myself under no less penalty,
than to have my left breast torn open, and my heart and vitals taken fi-om
thence, and given as a prey to the fowls of the air, and wild beasts of the
field, should I ever prove wilfully guilty of violating any part of this my
solemn oath or obligation of a fellow craft mason.'
" 3. In the master masond oath. '
Binding myself under no less penalty,
than to have my body severed in two in the midst, my bowels burnt to ashes,
and the ashes scattered in the four winds of heaven, that there might not d)e
least track or trace of remembrance remain, among men or masons, of so
vile and perjured a WTCtch as I should be, w^ere I ever to prove wilfully
guilty of violating any part of this my solemn oath of a wiaster mason.*
" We thus establish the very terms in w^hich masonic penalties in the three
first degrees are expressed, by the confessiorw of an official body of adhering
masons. It would be well here to recall to mind the vituperations liitherto
cast upon seceding masons for disclosirg the very facts that a grand lodge
now admit to be literally true. And i^ seceders have thus faithfully disclosed
the penalties of die three fir^st degrees, can it be doubted that the disclosures
of the still more deadly penaltif^s of the higher degrees—their obligations to
conceal crime, and to espouse a brother mason's cause, be he right or wrong
3
Google
1
18 Second national aimi masonic co^'VENTION.
iiave been made in equal good fidch^ under liie sanction of eivO oad» m eouxti
of law?
Having thus established the tenns of the penal clauses, the only point on
which masonry can pretend to join issue with anti-masonry here, is as to the
'construction' of the penalties^
" *
Li this institution [the masonic], much depends upon construction' says
the Rev. David Benedict, in his ad<&esa before the Grand Lodge of Rhode
Island, June, 1830.
**
We will take the reverend grand orator at his word, and test masonic
penaliies by masoiiie construction. The whole case might fairly be left to rest
Oil this one point—^that if masonic penalties, in the hands of weak or wicked
men, are liable to tlie literal construction put upon ilieui by the murderers of
William Morgan, and that oofistnictioD is virtually sanctioned by Masonry
retaining these convicted felons in her fiatemal embracie, as she has done in
the case of every individual comricted or suspected of participation in the
Morgan outinge, then, surelyj every man, who would prefer being a 'good
citizen to being a good mason, must see that the latter qualification is utterly
incompatible with the former.
"But we will not leave the case here. Masons claim the benefit of *con-
stnirtioii,' and they shall have it as scmpubusly as the benefit of clergy was
fonnerly extended to another class of offenders n<rainpt tlie civil laws. Thus
the Grand Lodge of Rlio<le Island admit th.tt the la/ti^uncre of masomc penal-
ties snvs (hath, and nothing but death ; but thty construe it to mean expulsion
from the lodge, and they solemnly deny that any principle or practice, open
or secret, in masonry, construes die penaldes to mean- any thipg but cx-
pulsioiu *
^
- .
No man-^e had almost said no mason (who has read the t«ockport
tnals)-—will now venture to deny, that the following facts, connected with the
disappearance of an unoffending citizen, in 1826, have been legally estab*
Hshed, viz :
— .
*^That William Morgan, a mason, who had disclosed masonic secrets, and
thus incurred masonic pmaiiies, whatc\ri they may be, instead of being
simply expelled from the iodt;e and ch;i[it< r, was kidnapped and murdered
by masons, and that at least five hundred of the fraternity must have been
knowmg to, and directly or indirectly implicated in, the outrage ;—that
although the resistance to the regular course of law, in the investigation of
this crime, has been unparalleled m our hbtory, and has in fact set iusiice at
triumf^aot defiance, yet stifiicient proof has been produced, ancl enough
convictions been ^ad, to satisfy every masonic body in the United Slates, if
they redly doubted ^out the construction of their penalties, that the kidnap^
pers and murderers of Morgan understood, and construed; and acted upon,
tlieir obligations, literally—and yet that of ten raa'^ons convicted of, or who
plead guilty to, a participation in the outrage upon Morgan, eighteen others
mdicted, and one hundred at lea.^ su'^pcrtpd, on strong grounds, not a single
man of them has been expelled fi-oiR any lodge or ciiapter, though each sub-
ordinate lodge and chapter, and the (Kand Lodge and Grand Chapter, have
ample power to expel for unmasonic cot4uct ; the power of tlie latter so to
expel extending to every subordinate lodge chapter in the state—but
that lo this day every one of the kidnappers and murderers now living, stands
Digitized by Google
. MR. HALLErrs REFOET. Id
in foil feHow«bip with the New York lodges and chapters, and is entitled to
the same fellowship as a yisiting brother, iii all the other lodges and chapters,
ill the United States. ^ • .
-
*
" We have also legal proof, not attempted to be disproved by masons tliem-.
selves, in the trial of Shepard and Maxwell heSote Judge Nelson, at a special
court in Niagara county» March 8, 1831, that the ahductiop aiKl murder of
Morcan, for disclosing masonic secrets, was conoerted and discussed in the
Mark Master's Lo(%e and Royal Arch Chapter at Batavia, and in the chap-
ter at Rochester, a week previous to the 15th of AugMSt, 1826, more than a
month before the seizure and abduction of Morgan was carried into effect
that, previous to this consultation for disposing of Morgan, a comnriittee had
been appointed from tlie lodge or chapter to take measures to prevent theu,
t of tlieir eX'
null
disclosures Morgan was about to publish ; and that the acco
peases in this business, travelling to Rochester, Canandaigua and iiuffalo, and
doubtless including the firinc: of Miller's oflice at iiatavia, were presented in
a chapter of royal arch uiasons for settlement. These facts were sworu
to by Gen. Jonathan K. Barlow and Judge William Mitchell, who were
present in the chapter where they transpired, and not a man alleged hy tUfti
to have been engaged in that conspu-acy, daved to come upon the stand and
contradict theur testimony. To show .that this masonic conspiraoy extended
even out of the United States, we have the further testimony, that a rnasonio
lodge of more than twenty-five masons, in Newark (Canada)f who had pre-
viously been informed of the proceedings against Morgan, met on the Cnniida
side to consult upon the best means of ]>MttinG: the traitor out of the way, and
that a rpspertnlile membrr of tlie Canada parliament was one of die conspira-
tors. (See blieci s testimony in the trial of Elisiia Adams.) In one word,
no man, who will read die I^ckpoi t and Niagara trials* auy more doubt
that numerous masonic bodies, in their masonic iis»f^%> .^'wl numeious ma-
sons of highly respectable character asV'^fi^''^ were direclhr concemed»ii|
ptlamung and carrying into e&ect tlv^ductton and murder of Wi]£am.Mor»
Sm,
tlian he cin doubt whetl»^^^® evidence in the trials at Salem, establbb
e feet, that the Knf»n^^ direcdy concerned in plannmg and carrying
into effect the murder of Capt. White.
"With these farts before us, we look to masonry for nn explanation, upon
the well e^tnl Hshed mle of human action, that there can be no concert among
a body oi men, in effectiog^ an object, without some common motive, some
impelling principle.
"Are there then any principles in masonry, justifying this practice—^iny conr
stniction put upon masonic oallis by masonic writers and orators, that sano-
tions the taking of life as the pensdty for revealing masonic secrets ? We
find the jpraetke in the case oi Morgan. Is this a perversion of masonry?
And not, where, are the precedents and pnnc^les that sanctkm that practice 1
In this -investig^OD, we shall look only to masooie books and masonb com-
mentators. - x4-^',>r '
'
^
.
" One of the surest and most approved modes of arriving at a decision in
any disputed case, is precedent, and to this a court of hnv mainly look for
direction. William Morgan was exeeuted in SeptembcT 1 826, by masons, for
revealing masonic secrets. Is there any roascuakr precedent ibr this, ever
^vep to the world i
Digitized by Google
4
$0, SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC COIfVKNTiON.
" In the Free Mason's Monitor, by ^lioinas S. Webb, wlio stooil eminent
among the princes and sages of masonry (a book which the Grand Chapter
of Rhode Island declare b ** replete loith useJtU infomation^ and to die
oarrectnesfl of winch tliey h«ve given the entire sanction of their authority")
in thai text-book of masonry, will be feund the following striking preceaent
fer masonie assassination, published with entire approbation in the Monitor, and
dao in several other masonic works of high repute. It is entitled *
Observa*
tions on the Degree of Elected Knights of the Ninth Arch, called a Chapter.'
"This is the twenty-third degree of masonry, and is given in the list of
Ibrty-three dejrrces, wliirh Vinton, in his Masonic Minstrel, page 241, says
*
are conferred in the subiime grand lodges in Charleston, South Carolina,
in the city of iNew York, and in Newport, Rhode island.' \\ ebb thus de-
scribes the lodge of this degree (Monitor, page 237 j New York; edition
of 1802.) . •
!
'
All the brethren must be dressed in black, and their hats flapped with
a bioad black riband fiom the left shoulder to the rig|it hip, on the lower
part of winch are nine red roses, four on each side, and one at the bottom,
lfwhich>is suspended k poniard. The apronii are white, liiied with black,
tpeMed icith blood. On the flap a bloody amiy with a poniard, and on the
area, a bloody army hMinig by the hair a bloody head. Near to the lodge I
is a small dark place, representiAg a cavern, in which is placed a lamp, a '
place representmg a sprine;, with a basin to hold water, and a table on which
are laid a poniard and a representation of a bloody head, as just severed from
the body ; near the table a large stone to sit on, and bek>w the.lamp, in cap- |
ital letters, Vengeance !'
** Tins is the scene. The Inquisition in its worst days, or the secret Tri-
bunal of Germtoy, could not, with all their ingenuity, better represent the
dress and den of an assiM«WY And yet the symbols of this bloody degree
hsfvelieen for years borne throu^ our public streets in publks procession,
without the uninitiated daring to inqt^jf ^bey were really symbols of chaK>i>
ily, mercy and brotherly love
"Mr. Webb next proceeds to give us #ie oi^pn of this deg^, which is
indeed 'replete with useful inff)nnation' to those who apply jt to a recent
inAiction oif * FengeancS'' upon a masonic '
traitor.'
^ History of this Degree*
" '
In tlic reign of Solomon, several of the workmen had been guilty of
some crime of an enormons nature, and made their escape fiom Jeni<ialein.
* A great assembly of masters had set in consultation on the best rrjeans of
discovering and apprehending them. Their deliberaticns were interru|>ted
by the entrance of a stranger, who demanded to speak to the king in priv ate.
Upon being admitted, he acquainted Solomon that he had discovered where
Aldrop, one of the traitors, lay concealed; and offered to. conduct those
whom he should please to appoint to go with him. Thisbeing communicat-
ed to the brethren, one and all requested to be partakers in the vengeance
due to the villain. Solomon checked their ardor, declaring that only nine
should undertake the task ; and to avoid giving any o^nce, ordered all their
names to be put into an urn, and that the first nine that shouldbe drawn, should
be the persons to accompany the su-anger. At br€«ik pf day, Joabert, Stockin,
Digitized by Google
MR. HALLETT S REPORT.
'^^'^^^^^ ^
and seven others, conducted by the stranger, travelled .
ttu
H/kids througli a
dvetiy eountiT, On the way, Joabert finind means txt kam from the stran-
ger tfiat the viUam they were in quest of, had hidden hims^ in a cayeni|^.
not &r fixnu the place where they then were. He soon found the caFent,::
and entered it alone, when, by the light of the lamp, he discovered theW/Znm
asleep, with a poniard at his feet • Inflamed at the sight, and actuated by
an impatient zeal, he immediately seized the poniard, and then stabbed hiniy
first in tlie head and then in the heait. He had only time to cry» Vengeance
is takenf
and ox pi red.
" ' When tlie oilier eight arrived, and liad refreshed themselves at the spring,
Joabert severed ihe head from the body, and, taking it in one hand and 1^
poniard in the other, he, with his brethren, returned to Jerusalem.
**
' Solomon was at fii-st very much oflended that Ji>abert had put it out of
his power to take vengeance himself in presence of, and as a loaming to, the
rut of, ^iiwrkmm to be faiihfid te their lml,.bcit, by proper intercession,
was again reconcded. Joabert became highly faioored of Solomcm, who con-
ferred upon him, and his ei^t-'cdmpanions, ue title of Elected Knights.' -<
.
"Here is the precedent hud down with the approbation of g^nd chapters,
as one of the lights to guide masons in the path of their duty. Is it placed
there as a mere fable, or hath it an impressive masonic signification ? There
is no intimation or evidence that Joabert and the rest of King Solomon's
master masons had sworn expressly to execute a traitor to masonry, any
more than the masons who executed Morgan, or any other masons of our
time, have. And yet they were all so eager to inflict masonic vengennce'
(not justice, mark you) u})on the man who had betrayed their secrets, that
Solomon had to select the favored ones by lot j aiid just so the six royal arch
masons, who consulted, near the girave-yard, how they should dispose of their
victim in Fort Niagara, were-themselves selected by lot ; and they selected hy
lot, from their^own jiumber, three to -act as -etecutibners: [believed to have
been Howard, King and Garside.] (See the^stimony of Giddins and Shed in'
the trials at Lockport.) Neither were ^Kbert and his associates ordered
by King Solomon to take the life of Akirop ; and yet they did so, impelled
only by their zeal in tlieir lionest constniction of n hnt they understood to
bo the penalty for violatins; masonic obligations ; and Solomon approved of
their literal construction of the penalty, and elevated them to higher oflices
for comniittinc; the murder. Tlus is tlie account which masonry herself gives
us of this bloody transaction. '
'
' • '
JiL-^i so tlie murderers of Morgan, in their zeal to execute masonic ven-
geance, construed the penalty hterally, in conformity almost to the letter, to
this masonic precedent ; and the Grand Lodge andGrand ChapterofNewYork
have sanctioned and approved this construcdon, by not expelling one of tlie
o^ndeiS, but rather aiding them to escape from justice. A nd all other lodges
and chapters in the United States have also sanctioned the deed, by not dis-
claiming fellowship with masonic bodies that chensh in their bosom the kid-
nappers and murderersof an unoffending citizen. Nay, these very kidnap-
pers have been advanced in honor, as Joabert w^as, and one of them now
under indictment, Simeon B. Jewctt, not long a^o was exalted to the h!2:h
post of Roj/al and Select Coumfiilor ! Was ever bloody precedent more
hterally loiiowed ? . • /^ - "
- > ^-^^.r^fki^*
Digitized by Google
8BGOND. NATI01««L AMTI.MAflOllIO CONVENTION.
'^Muk, too, the btoed-Aursty spirit ascribed to Sdloncm ia this hmsoub
murder, which masooiy has palmed upon the world Ibr holy writ, and. then
compare it with the act of the hi^h priest of the chapter at Hochester, at the
head of his masons, who^ when told that * one WiUiam Morgan was ahout to
print the secrets of masonry, got up, pulled off his coat, and stripped
UP HIS SLEEVES, AND SAID " BrING ME THE MAN THAT DARE DO THAT
THING, AND I WILL SHOW YOU WHAT TO DO WITH HIM." ' Did he mean,
think you, that he would expel iiim irom the lodge? (See of Shepard
and Maxwell, before cited.)
"In tlie same spirit, Solomon regretted, not that Joabert had put Akirop to
death, but ihaL iie wab iiimself deprived of the pleasure of taking vengeance
on him, in presence of the brethren, as a warning to them not to betray th^
trust, by violating their masonic obligations
In the next de^^, as given in Webb's Monitor, p. 339, it is related, * that
about six months after the execution (not murder) of the traitor (Akirop),
Solomon elected fii'tQen masters to go in quest of some otlier irmtare and
vtMains,^ who had violated their oaths. These seceders, it seems, were found
peaceably and honesdy employed, working in the quarry of Bendaca ; but
this was no more protection niruinst masonic vengeance, in those days, than
honesty and industry ha%'e proved in our day to be a protection for the U/e
of one, and tlie characters of ail seceding masons. The Monitor goes on to
tell us of their fate. •
" '
Five days were spent in the search, when Terbal discovered them cutting
stone in the quarry. They immediately seized them, and bound them in
ofaatns. When they arrived at Jerusalem, tliey were imprisoned injhe Tower
of Aefaiser, and, the next mammg, a pumshment was inflieted on them ade*
quate to their crimes.'
[The murderers <^ Morgan, it will be perceived, could find no precedent,
in this summary execution, for fumisliing dieir supplicating vicdm with a Bible,
or permitting him to sec liis \n[e and children, both of which were refusedj
" * After vengeance had hern fully taken on tlie frnifors (proceeds this ac-
count), Solomon instituted the Order of illustrious Knights, as a reward for
•the zeal and integrity of the Grand Masters Elect of Fiftpcn/
[The frequent use of the terms traitor and villain^ m tiiese cases of ma-
sonic vengeance, shows whence masons derive their favorite epithets apphed
to seceders.] ' - .
.
" tlere, then, are the masonic jjrecedents for the murd^of William Morgan,
as distinctlj^ kid dovm as the tnaJs and execution of Russell, Sydney and
Hampden, in the Endiah state trials ; and these precedents aie no where
overruled or explauned away, in any masonic work whatever. If they are,
let it be produced. .
Now, can any man who knows how to thinks understand all diis to mean
nothing but eappvision for violating masonic oatlis ; and to be held up to ma-
sons, as an example, for that harmless purpose alone?
" How is the precedent followed up, in the most approved mnsonic works
In the charge given to the fellow craft is this significant iu j
iru lion :
" *Our laws and regulations you are strenuously to support, and be always
ready to assist in seeing ihem duly executed. Such is the nature of your
engagements, and to tliese duties you are bound by the most solemn ties.*——
Webb*s Monitor, p. 72.
. ij i^cd by Google
MR. UALLETT'S REFOAT* '
2d
This is the jprincipU, When the six royal arch masoDS, (xaisulting tkHSt}
the grave-yard, at Font Niagara, resolved to * all go md iMr duty,' by^f
despatching Morgaa-at once, * the^r did start' with the determinatioii of ' sink-
ine him in the river.' - But one did not go so fi»t as the rest He was caU-
eC&nd objected. came up, and said, '
I know lam bound to s^o with you,
at a mason. I can't approve of the deed. It is getting late; I wish to be
excused.' (See Case oi the People et. fibsha Adams,. before Judge Nelson; ^
.
Lockport, Feb. 24, 1831.)
This is the praetiee. It is inculcated at the very threshold of masonry
for the candidate for entered apprentice, before he is led out of the prepara-
tion room to be initiated, is compelled to declare solemnly on liis iionor, 'tliat
he will cheerfully conform to all the cmcient, established usages apd customs
of tlie fraternity.'—Webb, p. 34.
' -
"Again Webb lays it down, in the charge to the master elect of a lodge.
^ * lou ag^ to hM m 'teimatiim the ori^nal nilers and 'patrons of ihe
order of masonrfi «nd their regular successors, supreme and subordinate.'
^^Thus, if thev venerate Sok)inon> Joabert, and the assassins, as they are
required to do, they must be resAy to walk in their fiiotsteps, as niaike4 out
in the assassination of Akirop. - > * . ^
So in the address of. a grand master. (0 a newly constituted lodge, he
says *
You are fully empowered to exercise all the rights and privileges of
freemasons, agreeably to the laws of the Grand Lodge, and the ancient utagtift,
of the fraternity.''—New Masonic Monitor, by James Hardie, p. 205.
" We see what these ancient VHas:es were, and it may well be queried,
whether legislatures, in incorporating masonic bodies, with power to conduct
their affairs, 'according to the laws and usages of masonry,' as is the pro-
vision in some, if not most of these charters, have not, in fact, iudii'ectly sanc-
tioned, their taking the life of any of their subjects, who may vblate tlieir
latv». Mid)tiiot^4ke .fnufderers of Morj^, with propriety, plead such a
statute; and skow miasotiic usage as a justification ? Sometlmig of this dispo-
sition to enfora^ masboic penalties, seems to have -
prompted the remark of
Colonel Webb, in his Mcnitor, p. 165, when he says that his * object in
giving an acqgpnt of the orders of knighthood, is to produce uniformity in
America, in the application ofthat portion ofinstruction derived from Scripture*
" Now, one of the most important of these portions of instruction wliich
Colonel Webb pretends to derive from Scripture and masonic tradition, is
this very precedent of the assassination of AkijQpp, which was literally applied:
in tlie murder of Morgan. * •
.
'
^V^The Grand Lodge of Rhode Island (the only masonic body that has
;en officially on this subject) have recently declared, that expulsion is the
j^mlty ^yith whk^h masonry has c;uardea her secrets. What further do
m^MAMMd roasomc authors, of the highest authority, say on this
" James Hardie, in lins New Monitor, p."310, quot^ the writer of Mr^
^lALshmole's life, when speaking -of the initiation of masons, who savs^ k is per-
formed * by an oath ofsecrecy which has had a better fate than other oatlis, as
it has from time immemorial been most religiously observed ; nor has the
world yet been able to dive into this mystery, by the inadvertency^ surprite, or
follyJ ^of way of its members.' This same Mr. Hardie mostblasphenoiisly
Digitized by Googl
M SECOND NATKHfAIi Ali.1»afASCN|tIC €X>]fVEimc«l.
saja of these .Mine o^tiis^ that they are attended with solemnities, * of which
none but those who are admitted to the degree of master masons, ran have
any conception. The soul is struck with reverence^ and all the spiritual
faculties are called forth to worship and adoration /'
—p. 180.
"
" Another masonic text-book, the Aliiman Rezon (so highly extolled by
Deputy Genera] Grand High Priest Poinsett, at his recent instaliutioo in
. Washinsiton), thus speaks of tlie success tliat had, up to tlie time of the
puiiiit auun oi liiiiL Look, attended die scheme iur preserving masonic secrets*.
*The power of gold, that often has betrayed kingB and princesy and
aomettmes overturned whole empires, nor the most crud punishiQents»
could ever extort the secret, even from the weakest member, of the fra-
ternity. '—Dermott's Ahunan Rezon, p« 70.
" This is thjB boast of masonry ; anclas masons, when made such, 4re like
other tnen, we must look to the nature of the institution for an explanation*
how k ia that when so many unprincipled, abandoned and avaricious men»
have belonged to the fraternity (even down to the pirate Emanuel Cartu^
cbo)—yet that nlthough all other principle was abandoned, this one principle
of preserving masonic secrets should have power to seal their lips.
The solution for this departure from all known motives of human action,
is only to be found in the universal understanding among masons, of die
nature and literal construction of the penalties of their oaths. No man, and
especially no mason, who ever examined die principles of masonry in its own
Constitutions and Monitors, can reasonably doubt thatseicrecy ia the primary
virtue of the institution, and that tfaismaaonic virtue is enforced by the hig^
est penal nnctkms. . .
^
The Book of Maaonic Goo^titutioiis, an autbority; to which all masons how
as the veiy highest {necepts ^ijl dieir order, is very emphatic on this point.
Thus:— ,
•
" ^ The last quality and virtue which we shall mention as absolutely requi-
site in those who would be masons, is that of secrecy, which, indeed, from
its importancp, ought tohnve held tlie frmt place in this chapter. So great
stress is laid upon this paiiicnlar quality of virtue (secrecy), that it is en forced
among masons under the strongsst pjEaiALTiES and obligations.'—^liook
of Constitutions, p. 9.
*
•
Now, are these strongest penalties^ for ^enforcing* secrecy, nothing but
cxpuMon from a lodge? if so, how could it so long have proved effectual. in
keepuig even unprincipled mei} secret, aHer tfaey hSd been expelled for Dtber
causes, and the penalty, if that be all, entirely exhausted ufMon tfaem^
** Grand Master Josiah Randall, of Pennsylvama, had evidently studied the
oaastitutions of masonry thoroughly, and m his manifesto to Lancaster Lodge
No* 43, published by order of the Grand Lodge, m 1822, calling the mmn*
bers of ttrat subordinate lodge to a severe account, for presuming to issue a
masonic chcular without consukinp the Grand Lodge, he claims * an entire
sovereignty and an inberent right in a g^nmd lodge to punish a disobedient
subordinate, even to severity,*
*^
Addressing the disobedient lodge on the general duties of masons^ he
says:
** * ()l)edience to these principles is the cardinal duty of the order. Every
master mason is bound by the strongest ties that human ingenuity,
Digitized by Googl
MR. BALLETT'S REPORT. 25
mDlETRS wu$n$ntB w "Pmoirnvtiom, has sybr yet dbvisbs^ to mam-
tab and support them. They imoose an obligation from whldi we CANHOT
h0 released) even though the whole nuuamc jamUyf hy one mahimous mp^
,€lanuiiian,$htndd decree it. They prescribe a du^ we owe to our bretbreoi
our coDsci^ces, and our God, and which» without guilt, can neither be
evaded nor set at defiance.'
" *The strongest ties human inp;f riuity has yet devised,' to maintain and
support the laws in civil governments, is the infliction of capital punishment.
If masonrj'", under the blessing of Providence, or by the aid of die powei-s of
darkness, has devised a more ingenious and eft'ectual sanction for her laws, it
must consist in the inevitable certaint)', and the mysterious and fearful manner
with which the punishment of death is to be inflicted upon offenders. The ,
amplest fonn of association, the merest schDol4H>y club, has always possessed
sofi^nt ingenuity to devise the punidmient pf ^cpu&ton, and surely Grand
Muster {Uadall would not reduce the wisdom of Glrand l^ter Sdomon, and
lus illustrious successors, to such a level
" Let us listen to the words of instruction on this head, from anodier bril-
liant modem light of masonry. We quote from the celebrated masonic lec-
ture by a learned and highly ro'^ppctable lai^'^^er of the enlightened state of
Connecticut, Willinrn F. Brainard, Esq., delivered before Union Lodge, in
New London, June, 1825, printed by request of tliat Iddiie expressly, as they
say in liieir note to tlie orator, ^ to be circulated for the hemjit. and instruc-
tion o f the craft.^ ' ' '
,
" in page 8, of that lecture, I\Ir. Bi alnard says :—
" * The means devised for the attainment of this end [the promotion of
maswyl are the secrecy, the langirage and the goverament of the lodge.
* * * SecreOTis wisely adapted to begin and continue masonry, because
it is necessary* Ii the lodge should work in public, who, in a short time,
would be its members ? * * * Besides, secrecy is of itself a virtue, and
is tau^t as such in the lodge, and taught effectually. Men should be able
to keep their own secrets, and should never violate the confidence of others.
" *
I said that secrecy was taught in the lodge as a virtue, and taught effec-
tually. Is it not so? Masonic secrecy is, I acknowledge, a mysterious
tliine; but to fact. The most tattling man, if he is a mason, keeps this
one secret ; diere is no risk of him. Enrage, discipline, exfel, he never tells.
Mad, drunk or crazy, he never tells. Does he talk in his sleep. It is not
about masonry. Bnl>« him in his wants, tempt him in his pleasures, threaten
him or torture him, he is a martyr here ; Ae never teUs, Thus secrecy is
one of the means essential «ad efl^cftual^
: ' *^ Now, can any man of discernment belies that in these remarkable and
empliatic passages^ this acute lawyer had no higher penalty in view for di»*
,'cl0sing masonic secrets than expiusbn from the lodge, when he thus exults
in the superiority of masonry over all other human associations, to keep her
members secret, and that too afker they have been 'disciplined^ enraged and
'expelled V Nothing but the consciousness of having sworn away one's life
as a pledge for fidelity—^nothing but the fear o( (hath, as mysterioLis it was
certain and inevitable, constant to the thought ot' the mason who might be
tempted to disclose the secret, and even haunting him in his dreams—^nothing
but such a fear could produce the efieot described by Mr. Brainard.
4
Digitized by Googt
90 BEOOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
*^
Again says this same masonic orator, when speakme of the admission of
1 masoD into this modm cave of ^Trophonius, the lodge room, 'When he
has entered the door, it is too late for him to 6nd fault with his company*
Af he ^att nai be moUeted hhuelfy to he shaU not dittwrh oihtn V
" So Important do masonic authors deem secrecy, that they recommend
religum and temperance to masons, not because they are ornaments to char^
acter, but simply because they are necess&ry to preserve masonic secrets*
Thus says this same Mr. Brainard, p. 6 :
*' '
The onlv roliVions test [in mn^onrv] is this, that men should have a
sense of tlieir immortal accountability, so Mat ^Aeir obligation jmasonic oathj
can be confided in*
*' So says Colonel Webb, of temperance, in his Monitor, p. 43 :
" 'l liis viiiae should be the constant prartice of every mason, as he is
thereby taught to avoid excess, &c., the indulgence of which might lead him
io dutAoee tome of those wihtMe eeerete wAidk he has pnmdeed to eoneealf
and never reveeiU
Orator Bramard, however, very kindly released masons from the unne-
cessary restraint of not iallii^ mto excess in drinkbg, for he assures them
that, though they do get drunk, they wOl wver rev^ these < valuable se-
crets !'
"The Book of Constittitions, before quoted, p. 10, says of Grand Master
Solomon, that *
a discoverer of secrets he deems infamous, and a traitor* It
also applies to the disclo-^^nre of masonic secrets the following passage:—* As
for a wound, it may be boimd up, and after reviling there may be reconcilo-
ment, but he that be^vrayeth secrets is tvithout hope.*
" The literal application of this masonic version has been fearfully pven in
the masonic execution of William Morgan. That foul murder followed so
inevitably, as a consequme of the {nnnciples we have been iHustrating from
masonic precedents and precepts, that it was in fact literally predicted by a
masonic orator, seven years- before it* took place. We refer to an oratioa
delivered in Roxbury, Massachusetts, June, 1819, by brother John Howe,
Esq., before the Washington lodge, and published at their request* The
following passages cannot mw be misunderstood.
"*Can such an institution [the masonic] have enemies? We pity the
weakness, and binsh for the depravity, of human nat«ire, when .we declare
that its enemies are numerous and virulent. Tt wns wonby the character of
the efTtiuinate, weak, yet cruel nntion, who onlnire conviction by the rack,
to denounce the thunders of their inquisition and raise their powerless arm
against it. But what more than Gothic ignorance and Vandal inhuinanity is
displayed by a few bigoted enthusiasts of a particular denomination, in a dis^
tant section of thb land of civil and -religious freedom, who, with Qiuxotb
fury, have wantonly assailed, it! We smue at their denunciations, we defy
th&unpotent eflbrtsi Do they expect to aecompfish their object? vA
the waves of the ocean speed their course with less rapidity to the shore,
when the imperial Canute commanded them to lie still in their bed ? Or did
the great luminary of day move with less majesty through the heavens, or
shine less re^lendent, when the infenud Sj^itwas loading it with reproaches?
Will they prevail ? No, never, never, never. If destined io fall^ which
€hd forbia, it will mere probah^ meet its fate by afostatbs from its sanc«
Digitized by GoOglc
MR. HALLETT S REPORT. 27
tions flod principles. Btir wo to that wbbtch who mn bxmdi
A8V1IDBR THZ VEIL OF THB RAZ«U>WXD SaNGTUAHT!'
<<Wo to die wretch, who first discloses masonic seciets! What wo?
The wo of expulsion? Was this fti^^^^penalty which orator Howe, and
the lodge that published his additefl^i£|M|tood to be denounced ^;9in8t the
traitors to masonry ?
" When a victim was marked out for death, by the Invisible Tribunal (a
secret power in Ger!nan\'^of masonic relationship, that assumed the right of
taking life, for supjioscd oirences, as the masonic fraternity has done in this
country, in the case of Muigan), when the secret decree was made by that
tribunal, the victim doomed to vengeance received the first warning of his
late by the word '
Wo, wo, wo,' tliree times sounded in his ear. \N'hence it
came be knew not; but go where he would, conceal himself as he might,
his doom was certain. The executioners of the secret tribunal would reach
him, by poniards or poisons. '
Tbb'was the 'wo' orator Howe meant, and
this was the wo inmcted upon the 'apostate* Morgan, the veiy *torett^*
denounced in the above extract, w ho, seven years after this prophecy, was the
*
first to rend asunder the veil of the Sanctuary.'
" There is another allusion in this remarkable passage from Mr. Howe's
address, which exliibits the intolerance and arrogance of masonry in 1819.
With what sovereign scorn he denounces the little band of religious anti-ma-
sons, who had even then dared to call in question the divinity of masonry !
And well he might; for then masonry *
defied the world inarms,' and anadie-
jnatized all who did not blindly worship her mysteries. Nevertheless, a portion
of the Methodist denomination of Christians, had dared, even then, to express
doubts of the fitness masonry.to advance religion, and they were of course
denounced by the orators x»f the order, as bigoted enthusiasts. De Witt Clin-
ton himself, when grand master of New York, codd lend his exalted intellect
tp the vile uses of masoqic denunciation and scorn. Thus in his oration be-
fore the Grand Lodge at Albany, Sept. ^9, 1825, at the installation of Gen.
Stephen V^n Beossalaer as grand niaster, he says, in language which admits
the utter unfitness of the masonic institution, for every government on earth*
by showing that it has conspired against all governments :
" * In e\'ery nation in Europe masojpry hns passed tlie ordeal of persecu-
tion. Tfie Inquisition has stained it with hlood. Hierarchies have proscrib-
ed and mterdicted it ;
despotism has pursued it to destruction, and every
where, except in this land of liberty, it has fell the arm of unjust and tyran-
nical power; and even here, in diis enlightened age^ J'anaLicUm has dabeo
to fulminate its anathemas !'
;
Yes, such was the influence of masonry over an enlarged and generous
minds as to induce De Witt Clinton, in this age, and in this land of freedom
of opinion, jo publicly denounce as fanatkUm and monstrous presumption,
the honejst expression by a fey Christian professors, of their doubts of the
value of masonty as an auxiliai'^ to piety ! And, moreover, su^h a man
could present* to the world as one of the boasts of this ^and of liberty,' and
of this enlightened age, that it suffered itself to be held in bondage by a
secret combination, into whose priiiciples and mysteries it did not dart to
Inquire
But, though thus publicly denounced from the high places of masonry^
Digitized by Google
SECOND UtAnOVAh ANTt-MAiOlQC GOKVENTION.
Ai9 little band of reBgioas anti-masoos did not shrink from ikie diseliarge of
their duty.
"In 1826, the Methodists of theTTuscalooja station (Alabama^ publicly
molded, and published that resolve, ' that the cause of God, in tneir opii^
ion, could Dot prosper while connected with freemasonry.*
" At that time the Christian Telescope, a religious paper, was published
in Providence, Rhode Island, edited by Rev. Dayid Pickering;, and printed
by Boizillai Cranston, both ro3'al arcli niason^he latter (Mr. Cranston)
being one ot the signers of an address published in June last, by the Rhode
Island Grand Lodge.
"In the said Telescope of May 13, 182G, four months before the ab-
duction of Morgan, is the following significant commentary on the proceed-
ings of the Methodists at Tuscaloosa. It is headed in the Telescope, ^From
a JFtimngtonf J^TmihCaroUna,paper,'' but ispMitked with the sXknt appro^
ftafibn of the editor and puhUsher^ who, being matonSi must hate tM wmar^
stood its import,
•* * fVe are truly thanl^d to find this spirit of intolerance confined to
the BIGOTS of Tuscaloosa, who wiS find tt hard to kick against a colos-
sus, which, ^ it had the indvna;tion, coulb' crush tbkii or ant other
DENOMINATION OP SECTARIANS, ALMOST WITHOUT AN EFFORT, that is in
^^mcrira, where civil and religious liberty have established a dominion.^ [It
is a fact worth mentioning here, that the Wilmington paper, in which this
paragraph originally appeared, was then edited by Rev. Jacob Frieze,
present grand chaplain of tlie Grand L#odge of Rhode Island, and the
author of the address of that Grand Lodge, recently published.]
" Such was the monstrous arrogance of masonry in 1826, and such the
more ilmii inquisitorial power she assumed, of proscribing and crushing all
who dared to call-in quesuon her creed ; and such were the threats with
which a few. sincere religious anti-masons were greeted in Christian ne«%-
papers ! Yes, it should be rung from one end of this Union to the other,
that in 1826, Christian ministers, who were roval arch mieisons, did not
hesitate to tell the world, and that too in Rhode Island, the land of all others
inost sacred to freedom in matters of religious concernment, that even the
right to worship God unmolested i;iflts held, in America, solely upon the
tenure of homage to freiemasonry ; but for wliose merciful forbearance, any
religious sect in the country could be crushed, almost without an effort
" Nor has this assumption of masonr)^ that it could control religious free-
dom and the rights of conscience, in this country, been casually put forth
but once or twice in its liistory. That power has been claimed in a series
of public proclamations of that import, made, as we have seen in the in-
stances we have cited, by tlie most eminent grand high priests and the holy
ministers of masonry. Hear what the masonic press said of another class
of Christians besides the Methodists, who*presumed to call masonry in
question.
In 1820, a velV able report against masonry was presented hj a com**
mittee appointed «ior that purpose, and read m a Presbyterian synod, as-
sembled at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. It was no sooner known, mm it iras
.denouQcad-jn the semest terms in some of ilie newspapers of that ei^«
Digitized by Google
MR. HALLETT S REPORT. 29
One of these papers, edited by a mason, remarked, among other threaten-
ing allusions, that the synod had undertaken to attack * a society which,
IF IT WERE SO MINDED, COULD OVERTHROW ANY HUMAN ORGANIZATION
ON EARTH !'
" Here we have the whole ground taken—civil and religious freedom,
domestic and personal security, Ufe, liberty and property, all held at tlie
sovereign mercy of freemasonry ! If such be our condition, while we are
boasting of our free institutions, what man is there, not a mason, who would
not * rather be a dog and bay the moon, than such a' freeman } And
surely, such was our condition until 1826 ; for the public press, and public
orators, and Christian ministers, told us so, and the * dreaming world' listen-
ed in awe and silence. Who dared gainsay it?
** We have cited but an inconsiderable portion of the maxims, injunc-
tions, and allusions in masonic books, which can only be interpreted to
mean that masonic secrecy is the first yirtue of masonry, and its violation
to be punished by death.
"To this end deception and falsehood arc enjoined to avoid a disclosure
of masonic secrets. Thus :
" * You must be cautious in your words, and carriage, and motions, so
tliat the most penetrating stranger may not be able to discover what is not
proper to be intimated ; and the impertinent or ensnaring questions or igno-
rant discourse of strangers, must be prudently managed by freemasons.'
Dermotl's Ahiman Rezon, p. 85, cited in Webb's Monitor.
" * If necessary, you are to waive a discourse, and manage it prudently
for the honor of the fraternity.' And
" * Upon every occasion to consult your own honor and the reputation
of the fraternity at large.'—Webb, p. 31.
" * Neither are you to suffer your zeal for the institution to lead you into
,
argument vvidi those who through ignorance may ridicule it.'
—^Webb, p. 48.
"The Masonic Chart, by Grand Lecturer Jeremy L. Cross (a work
bearing the highest approval from the General Grand Royal Arch Chapter of
ttlie United States, with De Witt Clinton at the head of the list of vouchers
for its masonic excellence), contains many solemn injunctions to preserve
the secrets of masonry, but no where does it intimate diat expulsion is the
penalty for revealing them.
" * Finally, keep sacred and inviolable tlie mysteries of the order, as these
are to distinguish you from the rest of the community, and mark your con-
sequence among masons.
u " *Let no motive^ therefore, make you swerve from your duty, violate
.your vows, or betray your trust.'—Cross's Masonic Chart, pages 21, 42.
" Here is no exception. Neither the motive imposed by religious obli-
gations or a civil oaUi, are allowed to interfere wiUi the masonic oath.
: Hence we see that witnesses, who have suffered fine and imprisonment,
sooner tlian obey a civil oath in a court of law, at tlie expense of masonic
oaths, have strictly conformed to the highest injunctions of masonry.
" Still stronger is this injunction of secrecy, imposed in this same Ma-
^ sonic Chart, p. 121.
Be voluntarily dumb and blinds when the exercise of those faculties
Google
so S£CX)ND NATIONAL ANTI-MA80JKIC CONVENTION.
(speeoh aad aght) would eodaiiger the peace of your nMod, or llie probi^
cfyour conduct ; and let silence and leerecy, those cardinal virtues, on a!u
necessary occasioos, be ^R^rupulmidy observed.'
"Again, page 234, Grand Lecturer Cross, with the approbatkm of th6
Jughest dignitaries in masonry, puts forth this sigaificant allusion to keep-
ing the secrets o( a select master, an order in the initiatory process of whicby
the farce of murdering one who betrays his trust, is pedbrmed, as a warn-
ing to the candidate >^
** * We are eMUad in ailenee, and notbmg can find *'
,
'
Its way to our distant anH m y tiral cave ;
And the wUekmnn who guards not, our mandate shall bind,
Jn the deeper eoneealmeiU of vmatr ahd tbs enxfrn *
"Tliere is another mnsonir injunction coni'^eyed in verse, which distinctly
enjoins tipon masons ilir niurdcr of any brother who violates his oath. It
is quoted f; oiii tiie Maryland Aliiman Rezon, page 262, compiled by order
of tile Grand Lodge of Maryland, sanctioned by them, and recommended to
all the subordinate lodges under its jurisdiction. The following direct and
bold recommendation to all the members of such lodges, to commit mur-
der, is addressed * to all just and faithful masons,' and seems to have formed
the veiy text for the murder of William Morgan >^
" ' But if any roan so Tnean, .
Tliruugh avarice or ^in,
Bhould deraee hinuelf in his high ttatioii,
That person so mean
For such cursed gain
BT Should bb slam bt tbb babd or a umhVXA
"This is ma^onrv in ^laryiand \
"We will soke t one ether strong case from masonic books, and there
leave this interesting branch of inquiry into the * nature of the masonic ia-
stitution,* although even the large space we have given to the investigation,
has by no means exhausied it.
Bernard's Light on Masonry, and other satisfactory evidence derived
from seceding and adhering masons, present the penalty auached to the
oath of a knight templar, hi the following form v-^
"«Bmding myself undergo less penalt^r thaa to- have my bead struck
tiff, and placed on die hi^st 9pire m Christendom, Should I knowingly or
wilfully violate any part of this my solemn obligation of a knight templar.'-^
Bernard, p. 158.
The symbols of masoniy are declared to be of deep import. Thus
says Mr. Webb in his Monitor, p. 40, * Every character, figure, and em-
blem in a lodge, has a moral tendency, and inculcates the practice of virtue.'*
{This virtue, as we have before seen, masonicaliy interpreted, means the
preservation of masonic secrets.]
"In 1821, Jeremy L. Cross, grand lecturer, &£,c. published the Tem-
plar's Chart. In his preface he says, that he consulted, in its compilation,
^one of the brightest officers of the General Grand Encampment;' unques-
tionably De Wilt Clinton, who was tlien at its head. On page 17 of thitf
«hart is presented one of the delineadons of masonic symbols. This con-
. ,j,,i^ ..d by
MR. HALLZTTT'S REFO&T. 31
sists of the tents of an encampment guarded by ^<nights in the costume of
the templar, with a bfinner on which is inscribed the motto of Consiantine,
* In hoc signo vinccs^ (in this sign you shall conquer). Near the tents, and
as die most prominent object in the scene, is a church, with a lofty spire,
on the toj} of which is stuck a man^s head I !
^
*^NaV IS this ad accidental embellishment of the picture, or has it a dis-
tin(»'^aq4. l^^arfat allifnon tpth^ penalty ?
'
As a further illustration of the nature of masonic treason, we have in
connexion a dtadon of the 24th chapter of Matthew, verse 14 to 26, the
account of Judas betraying, tlie Savior; a treachery which masons have
always made a parallel in atrocity with the betrayal of masonic secrets. One
of the ceremonies pf the knight templar's initiation, is twelve lighted can«
dies placed on a triangular table, representing the twelve apostles.
" One ofthe caiidles, which represents Judas, is blown ont. In direct allu-
sion to this ceremony, and to the penalty, we find the foilowm^ verse in
the knight templar's song, given in Cross's Chart, page 105, in Webb's
Monitor, and several other similar publicaugns : . .
" ' Twelve once were highly IotM,
But one a Judas proved;
*
Put out his fire ; .
May Simon* hunt Ul Ibob
Who vary from ot»r rnlos— /
May Uie keada of oLL suck Fools . .
RBtT Miaa Q« SMItBt !* V >
''So in another knight templar's song, given in Webb's Monitor
p. 300:
'
" * Let none the templar's name d^ttft
As Peter did the pass forsake ;
Tour conduct still preserve from blame,
AMD KXRP TOOK BBADB niBX FftOM THB StAKS !*
" To the same import is the symbol on the apron of the * Illustrious
Elected of Fifteen,' * three heads on spikes, in form of a triangle.' (See
Webb, p. 239.)
" Can reason or common sense comprehend that all this means nothing
but expulsion from a lodge ? These are the precedents and principles or
tnasoniy, formally kid down in her most approved charts, her very Bibles^
and publblied to « * dreaming world.* med we wonder that they led to
the murder of William Morgan, and the defeat of justice by a widely ex-
tended masonic combinadon in the principal state in the Union ? Can any
man doubt that the masonic executioners of Morgan acted with the full
sanction of masonic principles; and that the Grand Chapter and Grand
Lodge of New York conduct wKh masonic honor and consistency, in not
expellins; them for doins; an act in which they were the mere instruments,
and rnnsonry the principal ?
" Does any one conQne these principles of masonry and their practice,
-'*Thi8 is the masonic term for the human skull, out of which the knight tomplftr
Aniik»th« fifUi libfttion, imprecating the ^nn of the owner of that aknll upon liio owa
wnl, if ho oTor vtolfttoi htf oMiffUiMk.
Digitized by Google
3^ SECOND NATtOKAL ARTE-MAflONIC COmTSimON,
ill the case of Moigan, to a single state, itad dooVt Aeir umversali^ ? Let
him read, aifd fae must be convinced. In liie Cbutf Jeremj^ ll Crosey
page 14, is the foUomng recommendation, cerdfying to the precise uniforni-^
ity of the oaths of masonry in tbe several states specified. It is worthy of
notice that this Chart was published in 1826, a few months previous to tbe
New York masonic outrage. AU the dignitaries whose signatures are at-
tached to this certifiratp, had pxnminpd Grand Lecturer Cross, and found
his raasonrjr a common standard, agreeing with masonry in their respective
states.
"^To the Fraternity of I^ee and Aee^ed Matons ^untughoui ^
United States,
** * Know ye diat we, the undersigned, having duly examined our worthy
companion, Jeremy L. Cross, do find him well skUledf and correct in the lec-
tures and mode of working, in the three first degrees of ^^ncient Free Ma^
sonry^ as received, sanctioned, and directed to be taught, by the several
Grand Lodges of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connect-
icut, Vermont, New York, and -New Jersey. Also with the lectures and
mode of working in the several degrees of Mark Master, Past Master,
Most Excellent Master, and Royal Arch Masonry, as sanctioned, and
directed to be taught by the officers of tlie General Grand Royal Arch Chap-
ter of the United States of America. We do, therefore, cheerfully recom-
mend him a^ fully conipetent to teach tbe same.' ( Signed) De Wttt Ciinton^
general grand high priest, and grand master of New York ; Henry Fowle,
deputy grand high priest of Massachusetts \ John Snow, grand high priest
of Ohio ;
Lyman Law, deputy grand master of Connecticut ;
Philip P.
Eckel, past grand high priest of Maryland and District of Columbia;
John Harris, grand master New Hampshire ; Francis J. Oliver, grand
master of Massachusetts 5 Lemuel Whimey, grand master of Vermont;
James Giles, grand masterof New Jersey^ and JobnCarlile, grand master
of Rhode Island. .
*^ Wid) these evidences before us, can we marvel that many respectable
masons, who have made their own books their study, have averred that
Morgan was justly dealt by ? Who has not heard one or more masons utter
this opinion, though all deny it now ? It stands recorded against them, how-
ever, la one instance, past erasure. In 1829, a paper published by masoas,
in Groton, Massachusetts,. caUed the Groton Herald, put forth the following
reckless, but honest, masonic denunciation :
** * The enemies of a society [the masonic], and especially those who
have felt its charitable effects, and have now deserted the cause and enlist-
ed under tlie colors of rebellion, each and every one, Wc say, DESERVES
TO BE MORGANIZED ; and as tliere exists but little doubt as to the
FATE of the first poor rebel, we believe that a large majority of upright
men have always considered his puNisjiaiENT to have been HIGHLY
MERITED.'
**
In the same spirit, imbibed legitimately from masonic principles, the
* Compiler,* a masonic paper in New Hampshire, speaking of the feeling
that actuated the abductoro of' Morgan, holds tbe following language :
Digitized by GoogI
MR. HAULETT'S REPORT. • - 33
.•»^"* Fired with indignation at him ivho had aposhitized from their fa-
vorite PRINCIPLES, they rushed forth in the might of their fury, hid-
dij^ defiance to the laws of their country^ and the laws of their God,
RESOLVED UPON THE SINGLE INTENT DIRE VENGEANCE ! !
!'
" Mark the exception ! He does not say '
bidding defiance to the laws
of MASONRY ! With a like just understanding of masonic principles the
Rochester ' Crafts-man' dignified wiUi the epitliet of martyrs, the masons
who suffered fine and imprisonment, sooner than aid by telling the truth in
the conviction of fraternal kidnappers and murderers ; and another masonic
paper in Chenango county, New York, edited -
by John F. Hubbard, in
April last, charged upon anti-masons ^ a crime the attempt to bring the ab-
ductors of Morgan to justice. That paper, alluding to the trial of Elisha
Adams, at Lockport, said :— *
" * They [the anti-masons] must now suffer under the just imputation of
having pursued and proscribed for years a number of innocent and re-
spectable men, merely for political effect. There is no alternative but to
say the defendants were all innocent.'
- " Have we not adduced, from masonic authorities, sufficient and conclu-
sive evidence that the masonic construction of masonic penalties is death,
and death only, and that a different construction is not given from ^ny au-
thentic source, to explain away the conclusion at which we must arrive on
this point We challenge die whole body of adhering masons in the Union,
to produce equal evidence, or any evidence from their own books, lectures,
records or proceedings, of a date anterior to 1826, that the penalties have
not uniformly and universally been construed to mean death. If they
cannot do this, out of tlieir own mouths they must stand condemned. Webb
says in his Monitor, page 37, *It4s a duty incumbent on every master of
a lodge, to inform the candidate of the purpose and design of the insUtu-
tion, and *
to explain the nature of his solemn engagements.'
" Now, where and how are the pensliies explained, not to mean, just as
lliey read-r-death ? We say, no where. If any where, surely the high
priests and grand masters of the order can show it.
" In one word, what a preposterous pretence is this now set up of the
harmless meaning of laws which masonry heretofore openly claimed the right
to execute in her own secret forms, as a distinct and independent sovereign-
ty ! While masonry was in full odor with '
the dreaming world ;' while she
* defied the world in arms,' and threatened to put an end to religious free-
dom, then her disciples were tenacious to hold up the penalties, in their lit-
eral construction ; and her grand lecturers prepared, and her high priests and
grand masters sanctioned, the publication of maxims, injunctions, prece-
dents and commentaries, enforcing that construction. They well knew that
the fear of death was the only safeguard for their secrets and the existence
of their order, and it would have been dangerous for any mason then to
have declared openly, in or out of the lodge, that the only punishment which
would be inflicted on a member of a lodge who should disclose the secrets,
would be expulsion ! But now the empire of masonry is shaken to its
centre. The march of free and fearless inquiry has constrained her not
only to suspend her long-cherished right to execute her owti subjects, for
6
J
Google
94 SECOfID NATWUI. AOTI^MAIMMliO OONVENTION.
violating her secret l*ws, but even to deny that die ever ffininwrf at en-
forced Buch right* With what truth she has done 80» lot the pnoofe we hm
drawn from her own boastings and confessions show.
" With those of her followers wlio have thoroughly imbihed the true spir-
it that devoted worship at her shrine inspires, we well know that truth, and
argument, and reason, and love of justice, and love of law, and love of coun-
try, are wholly uiiavailing. You can neither reason nor rail the seal from
their bloody bond to masonry. But there are many, a great many, men,
eminent for public services, valuable for private worth, wbos^ rising ambi-
tioQ, er hope df sdf^sdvaneement, led them, in early life, to kneel in wUM
debasement at the altar of masonry, ^nd who would gladly escape from hsor
thraldom if they knew how. Foe t&se, we entertam nanght hut the kind-
liest feelings y and we would gladly di#riininate between them and our more
determined opponents, but for the iact that ihey are the very men whose
force of moral and private character, by being found on the side of mason*
rj', alone sustains the institntion, and retards the utter downfall that awaits
its tottering temples. Let them look to this, and then see how far, in jus-
tice to our caitse or to ourselves, we can or ought to forget, at our ballot
boxes, that they arc adhering masons, when, but for them and the sanctity
their names throw around the puerile and dark deeds of the lodge room,
there would soon be no occasion to use the ballot boxes at all, in this c anse ;
because, when all such men withdrew from masonry, tliere could be none
left from whom it would be lor the good of the country (whether they were
masons or not) to select candidates for offices of honor and trust.
To that cmss of our masonic feUow citizens who can. and will liunk &r
themselves, we dedicate these views of masonry, drawn from her purest
iources. We will yet believe that they er have viewed masonry as they
ought, because they have never examined her in her own dress—^her own
books. Tb those books we now refer them, asking them to take nothing which
comes from anti-masonic authority alone. If they will examine candidly, and
cannot then be convinced, we will offer them stil! stronger evidence—the ex-
act and literal appl'icaiion of these principles in detiance of the laws, as de-
veloped by undisputed judicial investigations ! If they still refuse to be con-
vinced, then neither can we be convinced that they do not prefer masonry,
with all her crimes, to their country, with all her free and glorious institu-
tions. We will carry that conviction to the press and to the polls ; we will
act opon it there—^mildly if we can; firmly if we must; patiently and per-
severingly if we foil ; temperately and generoustyjf we triumph ; ever re-
garding die right to act and vote against freemasonry as the dearest safe*
guard we possess, that the constitution and laws of die land shall guarantee
to us and to our children, ^ life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' %
Benjamin F. Hallett,
for the CommiUee***
The president, from the committee appointed to pieiKire a brief history
of the judicial proceeduigs, &lc», made a report, which was read and laid on
the table.
Digitized by Gooj^Ie
MR. ai'£I^Ci^ii'S RJBPORT.
REPORT, 4tc.
*
The pre^dent of the Conventkm (Mir. John- C* Spbncbr), from the
^ committee appointed on that subject, remarked, that the Convention had
'
done him the honor, by a special reeobtiooy to place him at the bead of the
oomnuttee, probably from the circumstance that his ofHcial connexion with
the prosecutions in question, had given him ample opportunity to become
acquainted witli the proceedings, respecting which the Convention had desired
information ; and that a report had accordingiy been prepared, which would
now be submitted :
— •
A history of the judicial proceedings had in the state of New York,
to discover and punish the offenders concerned in the kidnapping and
miirder of William Morgan, seems at tbis time to be required^ m order to
pieserve, m an authentic slnpe, 6cts of the utmost importance in the bislory
of our country; and to present in tbe most simple form that series of
evidence which establishes the agency and combination of members of tbe
masonic fraternity in impeding in^iry, baffling investigation, and defeating
the ordinary administration oi justice. It is a melancholy picture of folly
and crime; but the sooner and tbe more extensively it i? kiio^vn, the speedi-
er and more cfTectnal will be the rLinedv which the mteilie;ence aud ])ublic
spirit of a free peoj)le wih appl) . Those events are raj)idly receding from
our minds, and giving place to oiliers of s:rcatcr novelty, but of inferioi
importance ; and of those which remain, uiai^y become confused and m-
distinct in our memories. The very difficulty which has been experienced
in collecting the 6ct8 now presented, is an admonition of the duty of pre-
serving them in then: <lrieinal feature and befoie an.opportunity is affinded
by the lapse of ume to deface or distort them.
'^It is already too known, that in September, 1826, William Morgan
was forcibly carried from Canandaigua to Niagara Fort, a distance of one
hundred and twenty miles, through a well settled country, and directly
through five populous villages ; was confined in thnt fort, and finally murdered.
So well had the j>lan been digested, and so faithkiliy was it executed, that not
a citizen along this extensive tract, was alarmed by any appearance of vio-
lence, and not a suspicion was awakened along the whole route. Five
changes of horses were made, and three different carriages were employed ;
more than six persons, besides tlie ill-fated Morgan, were to be provided with
Ibod and reft^hment; numerous drivers and agents to provide relays of
horses must have been employed ; and yet not a suspieioa of the dark deed
which was transacting was awakened aJong the whole routo.' This angle
fiict speaks volumes respecting the capacity of an organized body, like that
irf" the masonic fraternity, to carry into e^ct any project, however imquitous,
and even in the heart of our coimtry, to immc^ate its victim, without inter-
ruption. It is a fearful fact, and furnishes a key at the very threshold, to
explain many, otherwise, incredible and mysterious circninstanres. To
accomplj^li such a deed in such a manner, must hare require d a pnfpction
of organization and of dis^.iphne, and a command of means, that may chal-
lenge comparison with any system ever disclosed to the world. When we
recollect diat this occurred in a bcdson of profound peace and fuiicied so-
Digitized by Google
36 SiiCUND NATIONAL ANTI-MASOi^IO CONVENTION.
curity, and that it seems to have required but. the applieatioD'of the ofdmuy
means of the-aociety, we may look back wkh-axnasBement at the peril we-
have passed, and may look* forward with some apprefaensioD vhetner that
peril be indeed entirely passed.
The first intimation -which the public received, that a crime hitherto im-
heard of in our couatiy,—that of stealing a free citizen,—^liad been commit-
ted, came from the piiDlication of sundry affidavits, vvhich had been procured
by an active and patriotic individual, who had gone from Batavia to Canan-
daigua to make inquiries for Morgan. These affidavits, which were taken
on the 23d of September, and publislied a few days alli iwards, aroused the
public attention in <hat quarter ;—^meetings were held in different villages,
and committees of citizens appointed to inquire into the fate of a citizen^
who had been la^eesly torn mm Im family and his oountiy. Fkodame.*
tions were issued by the executive of New x ork» in the month of October^
enjoining upon all officers the -duty of apprehending the offenders, and oifer^
ing rewards ht their convictkxi) and tor authentic inf<Hmatien of tlie place
to which Morgan had been conveyed. But to all inquiries and effi>rts,
difficulties and obstructions of every kind were interposed. The press,
so loud-mouthed and so hasty on every similar occasion of public outrage,
was either silent, or sounded fal'-e notes with a view to mislead investigation.
It is not the purpose of this report to dwell on this part of the subject, but
it is conceived that no oppoitunily should be neglected to bring to recx)llec-
tion the. shameful defection of the public press from its most sacred and
pecu^ duty, and the numberless falsehoods, which the newspapers 4^ every
. party invented and circulated} to baffle* and misdirect inquiry. At one
time, the victim of masonic- venceatice was selling his pustratioDS of Maaon-
ry in Boston, and imping a harvest from the speculadon;. at another,
he was in Vermont, employed in the same business ;
again, he was at New
Brunswick in the British dominions, engaged in the fisheries ; again, he
was at Smyrna, in the costume of a Turk, where, notwithstanding his dress,
he had been discovered by an acquaintance ; and he had kindly sent
messages to his anxious friends in tins country. This course of wilful mis-
representation and of equally deceptive silence, when the press was bound
to speak, was produced either by masonic influences or by a dread of
masonic power, iu either case, what sUong proof does it furnish of the
tremendous power of a society, which could thus subdue the whde public
jjress of the cmmtiy ! These, and a thousand ajmilar publications, did, for a
time, serve to distract the' public mind ;—but they never for a moment
V diverted those high-spirited men, who had undertaken .the inquiry, from
pursuing their object witli limited and insufficient means, but still, steadfastly
and vigorously. A delegation from different committees met at Lewiston in
the winter succeeding the murder, for the purpose fif making examination^
on the spot. Abuse, and < ^ ery other species of iiiiiundation, were employ-
ed, but in vain. The celebrated Tiewiston committee, as that delegation
has been called, collected a great variety of most important facts, and pub-
lished them under the sanctk)n and responsibility of tlieir names. This
document, in all respects wortliy the notice and* consideration of a people
- jedous of tb^ liberty, and anxious to preserve the lives of iheir lellow-
ttliiensy was never copied, either in the whole or in substance, by a single
Digitized by Googl
MR. SPENCER'S REPORT. 87
newspaper of any party, except some two or three independent presses in the
immediate vicinity. But still the report received some notice from the
newspaper press. It was calumniated as an ex parte statement of political
zealots ;—it was represented as a fabrication of its most important facts, and *
a distortion and misrepresentation of othei-s ; and its authors were lampooned
as a set of knights-errant engaged in an enterprise of folly. Will it be I
believ^ed, that this character was given, by the univereal newspaper press,
'
to a document which w^as at the time so much entitled to respect, as well
from tlie facts it exhibited, as from the calm, dignified and respectful manner |
in which those facts were presented, and w hich has since been confirmed by
judicial evidence, in every, the most minute particulars of its statements.^ '
It is a circumstance reflecting the highest honor on die authors of that report I
that it contains at this moment the l^st account, which has yet appeared, !
of the leading facts in the kidnapping and removdl of Morgan, which were I
then known ; and that if a history of that transaction should now be com-
piled from judicial evidence, its most important features could not be more I
faithfully or more accurately given, than they have already been presented
j
by the Lew^ston committee. For this reason, among others, the history
j
of the removal of Morgan from his family by the abuse of legal process ; i
of his being betrayed under the guise of friendship ; of his being stolen |
in the night time, and forcibly transported to the banks of the Niagara; of his
crossing that river and returning,' blindfolded and guarded ; of his removal to
j
a citadel of the United Slates ; *of his confinement in a dungeon, over which \
_ floated diat flag which is tha nation's pledge of protection to every one of its
citizens, and of his foul and cowardly assassination ;—the history of these
events w'ill not be given in the narrative which is now presented. It is con-
fined to the purpose, first, of detailing, with exactness, the judicial proceed-
ings which have been had, and of the efforts made to institute such proceed-
ings, for the detection and punishment of the offenders ;
and, secondly, of
presenting, in one connected view, such facts as occurred in those proceed-
ings and efforts which exhibit the difficulties that were encountered, and j
expose to the naked eye of all who look at them, the radical cause of those
difiicultios. !
The first grand jury that assembled in the county of Ontario, after the 1
removal of Morgan from the jail of that county, met in November, 1826, I
and being composed of citizens of the greatest respectability, earnestly and !
zealously engaged in the necessary inquiries into the atrocious crimes which
had been committed: The Lewiston committee had not yet assembled, |
and the only information in possession of tlie public, was derived from the
publication of the affidavits before mentioned. The witnesses examined '
by this grand jury, were, therefore, those only who resided in Canandaigua, I
and were knowing to the single fact of Morgan's removal fVom the jail. J
The deliberations of the jury resulted in their finding two bills of indictment ; *
\
one against Nicholas G. Chesebix), Edward Sawyer, Loton Lawson and
John Sheldon, for a conspiracy to cany off and kidnap Morgan, and for
actually carrying him to parts unknown, and for false imprisonment ; the
other was against Nicholas G. Chesebro, Harris Seymour, Henry Howard,
Moses Roberts and John Scofield, for a conspiracy to charge and accuse i
Morgan of stealing a linen shirt and a silk handkerchief, and to subject liiin
Digitized by Google
38 SECOND NATIONAL ANTi-MASONiC CONVENTION.
to punishment therefor ; and in prosecution of such conspiracy, the obtaining
a wan-ant from a justice of the peace. The defoidaiits, excepting Scofield,
were anested, and held to hau for their appeiunBice to answer. N. G.
Chesehio was, at the time, master of the lodge in Canandakna. He was a
lespectable mechanic, jnistamed a fair character, had a 6muy, a good bust*
ness, and was generally esteemed. Edward Sawyer was a]8(r<ft'<ipe^>ectable
mechanic, with a &mily, of good character, held a commission as colonel
of militia, and was among the most respectable inhabitants. Loton Lawson
was a farmer, not of much property, but of good character, particularly
*^
among his masonic brethren, being, as is understood, quite high in the
masonic degrees, and having been a lecturer of the lodges. John Sheldon
was a poor and dissipated man, at the time confined on the limits of tlie jail
for debt Harris Seymour was a ^oung man of great respectability, and
connected with the first fiimifies in that vicinity ; heiiad been a mentett^
but had felled -m business. Ilemy Howard was a very respectable merchaiil,
lately emig^ted fi-om Ekigland. Moses Roberts was a lourneymaii hatter,
in me employ of Chesebio ; as was John Scofield. This man, Scofield,
ab0(x>nded soon after the transaction, and has never been heard of since that
time, at least not by the officers of justice. Tho characters and occupations
of these men are given, in order to enable those to judge for themselves,
who have repeatedly inquired wlietlier the persons implicated in the outrages
upon Morgan were of the lowest classes in society, and of such a descrip-
tion that they would hav6 committed tho^ offences, without the stimu-
lants of masonic oaths and discipline. The materials, in the course of this
narrative, will be fixmd abundant to afibrd a satisfiictory answer to these
inquiries.
« In the month of Deceniber, 1836, a grand jury assembled in Momoe
county, the county adjoining Ontario, in which the village of Rochester is
situated, and through which Morgan was carried. They were particularly
and strongly charged by the presiding judge to inquire into the subject.
They called all die witnesses before them, who, in that state of information,
were known. Among odiers, Ezra Piatt was examined by them. This
man, it will be recollected, furnished the carriage at Rochester, into which
Morgan was removed from that which brought him from Canandaigua. He
•
testified, that his carriage had been engaged by some one for the masons, and
that he charged the hire of it to the royal arch chapter j but he did not
know who engaged it, or'wbo went m it. Edwwd Dojle testified that he
knew nothing a£iut the transaction to which he could testify without criminat-
ing himself. The same answer was ^ven by another person, whose name
it is not proper to mentidn. The jury could not find any bills of hidictment,
but they made a presentment, in which they state that they had ascertained
that MorgairTiad been carried through their county, and add : *
From the
great caution which seems to hav^e been obseri-^ed in keeping both Morgan
and the place of his destination from the view and knowledge of all but such
persons as may have been confidentially entrusted with the design, and who
would decline giving evidence, upon the ground that it might tend to crimi-
nate themselves, the grand jury have found it impossible to establish, by com-
petent testimony, the unlawful agency of any citizen in this county, in that
transaction.'
u ivj u^cd by Google
MB. 8P£NC£R'S RBPORT. 80
^Tliis rafluit only^idniiilatod an enlightened and mtrbdc peoole to grealef
exertion. A eoanty meeting was inunediately^ called and held^ to devise
measures to ferret out Ae hidden workers of iniquity. A I^rge number of
masons attended, among them Bunau^ Smith and John Whitney. At this
ineediii; mvestigation was appointed, upon whbh were placed
several masons. The other members soon ascertained that all their proceed-
ings were divulged by ilieir masonic associates, notwithstanding an honorary
obligation to the contrary, entered into by them ; and those who did not
belong to the fraternity, determined to act witliout the knowledge* (Jr assist-
imce of any masons. Up to this time, the outrages on Morgan had been
considered the work of a few misguided and unimportant individjuab ; but
the^NixHiduct of masons, generally, and.particulaily of those who JM been
pladed tfie mhstatlee, excited the suspidoas of the observing, that the
opa^ouc firaleo^ was in some way connected with those outrages. It was
Ibo^ nnd with great difficulty that this suspicion ripened into belief. Men
could not believe that their fellow-citizens, with whom they wcw m habits
of daily intmourse, and whom they had been accustomed to f(?f))ect, be-
longed to an institution which made the concealment of the most atrocious
crimes one of the most solemn obligations of the order. But day after day
added new proof to the suspicion. They beheld tlie very committee who
had been appointed indiscriminately from all parties, and by citizens of all
partiesj^ilified and traduced for a faithful discharge of their duties. Men
who haMo possible motive but the ascertainment of truth, and the detection
of the guijty (for as yet no party had been arrayed, and no pohtica] o1»ec6
had even been surmised), for discharging a public trust, of the most solemn
nature, with 'fidelitv ;^—these men were ridiculed, misrepresented, insult-
ed and traduced daily by the members of the masonic firaternity. That
evidence which can be deduced m^y from a long counfe of pbaervation
of minor facts andicircuinstances, and which, in its nature, cannot be com-
municated to others, was furnished to an intelligent and observing people ;
and the conclusion was soon produced, that the laws of tlie country could
not be enforced so long as masonry lield its sway over the minds of men ;
and tliat submission to its secret and irresponsible power, or an open and
avowed war of extermination, were the only alternatives. Although some-
what foreign from their present purpose, ^our committee cannot forbear firom
here nausnngi and asking, whether to their distant fellow-citizens, there is not
fomished strong moral evidence of the banefiil. nature of the masonic institn^
tion, in the &ct, that more than half a million of l^ee, enlightened and in-
telligent inhabitants of that section of country whlchf has afmrded the best
opportunity for judging, have, in language that cannot be mistaken, expressed
their deliberate convictions that freemasonry cannot exist consistently with
our institutions. Why are they not witnesses, in the same sense in which
the reputation of an individual in a community is proof of his moral worth?
And why is not their testimony equally satisfactory
*'
In December, 18:^6, a meeting of the citizens of Niagara was held at
Lewiston, at which a committee was appointed to inquire into the circum-
stances of Morgan's abduction, and to endeavor to bring the offenders to
punishment. Having ascertained that Morgan had been taken to Canada,
one of the committee crossed the river early in January, 1827, at the time
Digitized by Google
40 8BC0ND NATIOHAL AHII-IIASOMIC CORVENltOll.
a grand jurv was in sessioiL He went before the grand jury, and proposed
to fumiaii tnem with the names of witnesses residing in Canada, if the grand
jury would agree to investigate the matter. After ponsiiltin^ together, they
resolved to do so ; and they were accordingly furnished with the names of
several masons residing in the town of Niagara, which is more commonly
called Newark, who were believed to be important witnesses. The jury
adjourned soon after. The next day the complainant was informed that
after the adjournment of tlie jury, the witnesses who had been desi^ated
had been* conv^aed with ; that after die assembling of the jury in the
morning, they had ooosulted the district judse, and, thereupon, had^l^lQl^^
to do no more in the premises* The oompkmant ascertained that the
tirict judge was a freemason, and that the foreman and a portion of the
were also masons. This rei^ation is derived Icom the gentleman who was
the complainant. It needs no comment.
"On the 29tli of December, 1826, Eli Bruce was arrested and brought
before a magistrate of Niagara county, on a charge of falsely imprisoning
Morgan, asiC of secreting him, Sic. There was no legal proof before the
magistrate, that any one had been forcibly brought from Canandaigua, and
Bruce was discharged. But on the examination, one fact appeared which
deserves to be noted. Bruce had requested Samuel Barton to furnish him
a carriage, to proceed down the Niagara from Lewiston. The next morn-
ing, Bruce, having returned to Lewiston, was asked if he went to Youngs-
town the night before. He said he did. He was then asked iflillb took
Moigan dowp. He said he did ; and observed that 'Barton was very im-
prudent in sending Fox (the driver of the carriage) ; that he had told him
his business, and he ought not to have sent any but a mason.' It was the
gradual disclosure of such facts as these, that excited the suspicions, and
ultimately produced the belief, of the participation of the masonic fraternity
in the transaction ; and that there was something in the nature of the insti-
tution which justified its members in relying on each other for assistance and
secrecy, in the commission of crime.
/ "The next event of importance, in the history of these judicial proceed-
mgs, was the sitting of the court of Oyer and Terminer, fat the county of
Ontario, in January, 1827, Nicholas G, Chesebro, Edward Sawyer, and Lo-
ton Lawson, being called on, io proceed to the trial of the indictment against
them, which is previously mentioned, pleaded guilty to that indictment, and
the two first named filed affidavits explanatory of their agency in the transac-
tion. These have been extensively published, and are well known. Lawson
made no attempt to explain or extenuate his offence, and was sentenced to im-
piisonment in the county jail for two years. Chesebro was sentenced to a
like imprisonment for one year, and Sawyer for.one month. Sheldon went to
trial on the question of his identity, expressly admitting the crimes alleged
in the indictment to have been committed ; thus excluding all proof of the
main facts, which the public had anticipated would be developed on these
trials* He was, however, found guilty, and sentenced to three months im-
jprisomnent In passing sentence upon the ddei^dantB, the circuit judge, who
IS now governor of New York, descanted, in terras of great severity, upon
the nature of the crimes they had committed ;
and, at the request of sev-
eral citizens, frimii^ed a copy of his remarks fx publication. They were
MR, SPENCER'S REPORT. 41
puMighed aocoHingly, and - have been extensively drcukted In that part of
the country. Still, a few extracts, it is believed^ will not be unacceptable.
The judge says, ' Our constitution shows it, and the declaration of our inde>
pendence declares, that the unmolested enjoyment of liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness, are the unalienable ris^hts of man. So sacred do we hold per-
sonal liberty, that even the impressment of a seaman from one of our sliips
has been considered a sufficient cause for national war.' 'Your conduct
has created, in the people of tl)is section of llie country, a strong feeling of
vjirtuous indignation. The court rejoices to witness it,—to be made sure
^B|it ii:jc}tl2en's person cannot be invaded by lawless violence, without its
DmhjfldG^^ every individual in the community. •
It is a blessed jqurit, and
we do noge it will not subside ^ that it will be accompanied by a ceaseless
vigilance and untiring activity, until every actor in this profligate conspiracy
is hunted from his hiding-place, and brought before the tribunals of the
country, to receive the punishment merited by his crime. We think we
see, in this public sensation, the spirit which brought us into existence as a
nation, and a pledge that our rights and liberties are destined to endure.'
The point of tliese remarks w ill" be better understood from a knowledge of
the fact, that the counsel of Sheldon, in tlicir addresses to tlie jury, had
cautioned them against bei^ inflyenced by the excitement timt prevaued,-—
had represented that exdRement to have been, produced by ambidou»
demagogues, who hoped to 'ride the whirlwind and direct die storm,'—and.
had deptecated the attempt to connect the masonic institution with such ibul
acts as were chaiged. The remarks of the judge were intended as a rebuke
for this language ; and the praise which he lavished on '
the blessed spirit'
was thus intended and understood as an encomium on anti-masonry. The
truth and Ibrce of his observations are not diminishes by the circumstance,
that when he ceased to be an independent and impartial judge, and became
a political partisan, associated with masons, and dependent on then) for suc-
cess, he himself sought to discredit this '
blessed spirit,' to check ^the cease-
less vigilance,' and to rebuke and paralyze ' the untiring activity,' whksh he-
had commended. Its only efkct is, to establish most conclusively the con-
taminating influence of freemasonry, and its vast power, which could compel
a public officer thus to proclaim his own inconsistency, and repudiate senti-
ments which found their echo in the bosom of every American who was
neither '
hood-winked nor cable-towed.'
"In the month of Februar)^, 1827, a grand jury for Ontario county again
assembled at the Court of General Sessions of the Peace, and renewed the
inquiries for the detection of the ofibnders against Morgan. They found a
biU of indictment against seventeen persons, for a conspiracy to kidnap and
carry away that person, and for falsely imprisoning and carrying him to parts
unknown. These persons were James Lakey, a physician, Chauncy H.
Coe, a stage proprietor, Hiram Hubbard, the keeper of a livery stable, John
Butterfleld, wnose occupation is unknown, James Ganson,an inn-keeper and
formerly a member of the state legislature, Asa Nowlen, an inn-keeper,
Harris Seymour, Henry Howard, Joseph Scofield, and Moses Roberts, who
have been before mentioned, Halloway Hayward, a constable, James Gillis,
a respectable farmer, John Whitoey, a respectable stone-cutter, Burraga
42 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Sinitl), a grocer, Simeon B. Jewett, an attorney and counsellor at law, and
Willard Eddy, whose occupation fe unknown.
'
"At the same court, the indictment against Harris Sevm6ur, Henry How-
ard, and Mos^ Roberts, for conspiring to charge Morgan with stealing,
which had been found, as bcfin c mentioned, was brought to trial. It was
in proof that these ' persons had gone with Chesebro from Canandaigua to
Batavia, to arrest Morj^an on the warrant which had been fraudulently ob-
tained against him, issued })y the justice, Chipman, for stealing a shirt and
handkerclnef; that he had been taken in Batavia, and liurried off with great
severity and rudeness, and witiiout giving him an opportunity to apprize his
friends of his situation. But it was held by the court, that the warrant was
evidence of probable cause, and that the defendants could not be convicted.
They were accordingly acquitted.
; !*ln Xan^, 1827, another grand jury assembled in Monioe county, at the
court orOyer and Terminer. A majority of them were freemasons. Veiy
fiiint efforts were made to obtain testimony, and no indictments were found.
"In April, 1827, a grand jury assembled at the Oyer and Terminer, in
Niagara county, and a complaifit was made to tlicni against Eli Bruce, then
sheriff of that county, by one of liie county comniiltee. It seems to have
been anticipated that this grand jury would enter upon an investigation of
the subject, and preparations were made accordingly. It is stated by Hiram
B. Hopkins, a royal arch mason, and at llie time deputy sberifl^ that he
was instructed not to sumnaon any grand jurors but .such as were partica-
larly friendly to the masonic institution. At that time ^rand jurois were
selected by the sheriff from the citizens at large. The jury were accord*
ingly packed, pursuant to these instructions,—^twelve of them being masons
and the others friendjp to the order. Mr. Hopkins says, '
The district
attorney was a royal arch mason, who knew all about the Morgan affair,
in my opinion ; and the foreman of the jury was one of the warmest zealots
of the order in the county.' One of these grand jurors has furnished a
statement of the jproceedings before them, from which the following is taken
The foreman claimed the ridit to examine, the witnesses himself. After
several had been examined by him m such a way as to give no infonnatioo,
one of the jurors put quesdons to a wimeas. When that vritness had retired,
this juror was called aside by the foreman, and privately solicited to refrain
thereafter from asking questions, and to leave it with the foreman. The
juror, however, persisted ;
^md, on one occasion, insisted that a witness
should answer what he knewof tlie matter. The witness objected, because,
he said, he considered his testimony irrelevant, and because he was a poor
man, who got his hving by labor ; and if he should testify, it might prove a
serious injury to hims^ and his family. A large majority of the jury de-
cided that the witness need not answer, but the pertinacious juror insisted on
his right, and finally obtained his point. The witness was called back, and
testified that Bruce had acknowledged to the witness his agency in carrying
Morgan to Niagara. Wimesses were introduced and examined to impeach
the credibility of tlie last named witness. Another witness testified that be
had been informed, by a respectable inhabitant, that Morgan had been car-
ried to fort Niagara, thence to the Canada shore, and thence returned to
fort Niagara ; that he had been subsequently put to death; that his body
, MR. SPENCER'S REPORT. 43
•
was in the bottom of the Niagara river, and might be found if searched for
immediately, and lie (the informant) could tell the place where it would be
found. The wimess stated that he derived this information from a man who
said he was a mason, and insisted that his name should be kept secret, for
tliat if it were known, his life would pay the forfeit. Tlie pertinaciouT iinor
required tlie witness to give the name of his informant, with a view to have-
him called as a witness, which he refused to do ; and nearly, if not quite, all
the other jurors sustained the witness in his refusal. During the pending of
tlie inquiry before the jury, the foreman was seen to leave the jury room,
and retire to a private room with Bruce, and there remain for a con-
siderable time. Among the witnesses examined before this grand jury, was
Corydon Fox, who has at all times, when properly asked, testified to the
fact of Bruce's riding with him, on the driver's seat of the carriage, which
Fox drove, and whicli contained ^Iorgan while he was conveyed from Lew-
iston to Niagara; and it must have required great mgenuity to prevent this
witness from stating; that fact. Among other witnesses examined, were Sol-
omon C. Wright, Ezekiel Jewett, the keeper of fort Niagara, Elisha Adams,
the ferryman at Youngstown, Edward Doyle, Parkhurst Whimey, Noah
Beach, and Samuel M. Chubbuck. These names are mentioned because they
are familiar to those who have read the trials, as the very individuals who
must have known all about die transaction. It does not appear that any oP
them, on this occasion, refused to answer on the ground that such answer
might criminate tiiemselvcs. By what device they satisfied their own con-
sciences, and avoided disclosing the truth, may, perhaps, be explained by
what Edward Giddins says, in liis almanac for 1829, at p. 45 :
—'During
the winter,' he says, ' I had frequent conversations w ith masons on the
same subject, all of whom used the same argument, and concluded by urg-
ing that they had agreed to testify, when called on, that theij knew nothing
about the affair;—that they thought themselves justified in doing so, by the
nature of tlieii* masonic oaths, which they never could think of breaking.'
*And,' he says, *that in order to dispel his doubts, he was particularly
referred to that clause of the royal arch masons' obligation, which binds
them to rescue a companion, whether right or wrong.' The unsullied char-
acter of this man for truth has lately been so thorougjdy tested, and so tri-
umphantly established, that nothing need be said to impress any one with
the absolute verity of any relation ne deliberately makes.
" The conduct of this grand jury, and of the witnesses, has been dwelt uporr
with some minuteness, as furnishing evidence which no dispassionate mind
can resist, of the awful prostitution of the most sacred offices of justice, and
of the dreadful suppression of truth, produced by masonic obligations. The
cap-stone of this edifice of guilt and infamy yet remains to be exhibited.
Seventeen of this grand jury made a formal representation to the governor
of the state, that, after a long, laborious, and * particular examination of all
tlie witnesses, it did not appear that Eli Bruce, or any other person named,
was guilty of, or accessary to, the abduction of William Morgan ;' and they
make known to the governor the result of their inquiries, * Uiat blame may
not rest on the innocent !'
It would scarcely be believed that the Eli Bruce,
here referred to, is the same man who has been proved, over and over
again, by the same witnesses who were examined by that grand jury, to
44 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
• «
have been the chief actor in conductiifg Morgan through Niagara county,
who hired horses twice and a carriage once for the purpose, and wlio has
himself, in open court, sworn tliat he did so !
*'
The next grand jury that assembled in Niagara, in May, 1827, consisted
of nineteen persons, of whom fourteen were well known masons. It was so
palpably useless to make any further efforts witli such a grand ]ury, that no
complaint was made to tliem. A law, however, was passed by the legisla-
ture this year, directing grand jurors to be selected by lot from lists to be
returned by town officers. As soon as this law went into effect, impartial
grand jurore were obtained,—and in Niagara county complaints were made
before them, in the latter part of the year, and indictments found against
^
William King, Ezekiel Jewett, Elisha Adams, Solomon C. Wright, Jere-»
miah Brown, Parkliurst Whitney, Noah Beach, Timothy Shaw, William
Miller, and Samuel M. Chubbuck. William King was esteemed one of the
most respectable citizens of the county, having represented it but a short
time before in the state legislature. Ezekiel Jewett was very respectable,
and was employed by the government to take charge of fort Niagara: he
and King were both colonels. Elisha. Adams was the ferryman at Youngs-
town. Solomon C. Wright was a respectable inn-keeper and a postmaster.
Jeremiah Brown was a respectable farmer in good standing. The others
were all respectable men, and regarded as peaceable and orderly citizens.
"In August, 1827, at the Ontario General Sessions, Halloway Howard,
James Ganson, Harris Seymour, Henry Howard, and Moses Roberts, were
brought to trial on the indictment against them for conspiracy and the abduc^
tion of Morgan, and were acquitted. With regard to all of them but Gan-
son, the proof consisted in their having gone with Chesebro to Batavia to
arrest Morgan, and having brought him to Canandaigua: and with respect
to Ganson, the proof consisted in his having aided tJiem on the way. Chese-
bro was examined as a witness, and testified that those persons were not
informed by him, and did not know, to his knowledge, of any ulterior design
with respect to Morgan, after he should be brought to Canandaigua. This
testimony produced their acquittal. Chauncy H. Coe, Hiram Hubbard
and James Lakey were tried at the same court, upon a similar indictment.
With respect to Coe, the chief testimony was, his having engaged tlie car-
riage and horses of Hubbard, with which Morgan was carried off; and Hub->
bard was implicated from the fact of having furnished, and himself drove*
the carriage. Lakey was implicated in consequence of his interference in
procuring the warrant for the arrest of Morgan. The proof, however, did
not establish that previous knowledge of the purpose for which tlie carriage
was wanted, to justify a conviction, and tliey were acquitted.
"At this time, Edward Sawyer, who had been subpoenaed as a witness
did not appear, and an attachment was issued against him. Whether his
appearance and tesUmony would have varied the result in any of the trials
before mentioned, it is impossible to say ; although, from his testimony on
subsequent occasions, it is presumed it would not.
"At the same term, an indictment for conspiracy and for kidnapping was
found against Eli Bruce, David Hague, Orsamus Turner, and Jedediah^Dar-
row. Bruce, as is well known, was sheriff of Niagara, and in high standing i^
the commumtjr. Hague was a tailor at Lockport, and died before he could b«
^
Digitized by Googli
MR. SPENCER'S REPORT. 45
brought to trial. Turner was the pubh'sher of a newspaper at Lockport of t
respectable character. Darrow was also a ftspectable man, but his occupa- ,
tion is unknown. He was afterwards ap|)oinled a postmaster.
"At the Ontaiio General Sessions, in February, 1828, an attachment was
ordered against Jeremiah Brown, who had neglected to appear as a wimess, '
according to a subpoena ; and against Isaac Farewell, for liie same cause.
It after\vards appeared that Farewell had at this time been sent into Can-
ada, where he was kept, while his famity remained. in Niagara county. J\o
proceedings were had at this term u|)on the indictments pending.
" In the winter of 1828,the acting governor of New York called the atten-
tion of the legislature to the alarmed state of the public mind in relation to
the fate of Morgan, and to the inefficiency of the ordinary means to bring «
the offenders to justice ; and he recommended the appointment of a special
attorney, to take charge of the investigation. A law to that effect was
passed, notwithstanding a vigorous opposition ; and Mr. Moseley was
appointed the special attorney. In August of that year, Uie indictment *,
against Bruce, Tumer, and Darrow was brought to trial at the Ontario '
General Sessions. In order to maintain the indictment for a conspiracy in
Ontario, or for the kidnapping in that county, as the defendants had not beeil^ >
personally acting in the matter in that county, it became necessary to prove I
a pre-concert to remove Morgan from Canandaigua. With regard to Tur- |
ner and Darrow, no such proof existed ; "what they did in relation to the I
transaction occurred after the arrival of Morgan at Levviston, or while he
was at Batavia. They were acquitted, and Bruce was convicted ; but sen-
tence was* suspended to take the opinion of the Supreme Court upon some
legal exceptions that had been made, in reference, chiefly, to the point
'
whether he had been guilty of any offence in Ontario. On tliis trial, Solo-
'
mon C. Wright was examined as a witness, and testified in such a nrranner
'
that he was afterwards indicted for perjury. Edward Doyle, who had en-
tered into a recognizance to appear as a witness, failed to do so, and for-
feited his recognizance, which was estieated at this term.
"In November, 1828, an indictment was found at the court of Oyer and
Terminer, of Orleans county, against Elihu MaUier, for the conspiracy and
kidnapping. Mather was one of the most respectable citizens of that county,
and was very generally esteemed. Soon after tliis indictment, he removed ,
to Vermont, where he was beyond the reach of process to compel his ap-
pearance as a witness on the trial of other persons.
" In the same month, new indictments were found in Niagara against the
[
same persons already mentioned as having been indicted in that county ; ,
the former bills having been found defective. In the succeeding winter,
Mr. Moseley, being appointed circuit judge, resigned the office of special
attorney ; and in March, 1829, J. C. Spencer was appointed in his place,
at the solicitation, as is understood, of members of the legislature from
*
the western part of the state of New York. j
"In March, 1829, preparations were made to try the indictment against
Elihu Mather, in Orleans county, at the court of Oyer and Terminer which <
was then held. But it was removed by the defendant, by certiorari, into the \
Supreme Court, which operated as a postponement of the trial for about six '
months.
Digitized by Google
46 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
^" In the same month, a vigorous effort was made before the grand jur}%which
asse^ibled at Rochester, in ISftnroe county, to penetrate the cloud of dark-
ness which rested on the transactions at that place, and to detect the offend-
ers there. A great number of witnesses were closely examined, but very
little in the shape of legal testimony was ehcited, while a clue to many im-
portant facts was obtained. Among these witnesses was Isaac Allen, with
respect to whom the grand jury made a re|X)rt to the court, that he had re-
fused to answer questions put to him, touching his knowledge of the facts;
whether a carriage had stopped at his house on the 11th, 12th, or 13th of
• September, 1826 ; whether any person had applied to him to furnish a
pair of horses to draw a carriage to the west about those days ; and
whether a certain person, who was named to him, was at his house on either
of those days, at a time when a carriage was going to the west. And the
iury reported that the reason assigned by Allen for his refusal, was, that the
answers might tend to implicate liimself. An elaborate argument was made
before the court by the special attorney, and by the counsel for Allen, who
was the same counsel that has apj^eared in behalf of the persons indicted, on
almost every occasion. The court decided that the witness was bound to
answer the questions ; but he persisted in his refusal, and was committed to
prison. The purpose of making an example of a contumacious witness,
having been thus accomplished, he was discharged after a few days, with
the consent of the prosecuting officers. This grand jury found an indict-
ment against Simeon B. Jewett, an attorney at law, and Bui rage Smith, for
the conspiracy and kidnapping. They had been prenously indicted in On-
tario, but the overt acts charged against them having been committed in
Monroe, as alleged, it became expedient to indict them in that county
Burrage Smith liad previously gone out of the state with John Whitney,
to the south-western states. JNIessrs. Phineas P. Bates and Joseph Gar-
iinghouse—the one of them then sheriff, and the other the former sheriff -
of Ontario—went in pursuit of them, and of William King, who had gone
to Arkansas, leaving his family in Niagara. They were clothed with
authority from the governor of New York to demand the fugitives and bring .
tliem to that state. The history of their cxpeclition has been published by
those gentlemen under the sanction of their names ; and it discloses the fact
that the same cause operated to defeat their purpose, and successfully baf-
fled their enterprise, which has been found invariably obstructing the march
of justice through all the proceedings connected with' this whole transaction.
Twice did they pursue the fugitives into the remotest corners of the Union,
and in each instance they foiled. They have unreservedly given the facts,
which justify the belief that their failure was owing to tlie interference of
masons in communicating intelligence to the persons for whom they were in
search. After penetrating to the western boundaries of Missouri, and trav-
ersing the country to New Orieans, these gendemen returned with a sol-
emn conviction that, if tliey had succeeded in arresting anv of the fugitives,
they would have been utterly unable to return whh them to the state of
New York ; and that their prisoners would have been taken from theni,
either by the perversion and abuse of legal forms and process, or by open
violence. It should be remarked, that one of tliese gendemen was a royal
arch mason, and that what he witnessed during these joumies, so entirely
Digitized by Google
MR'. SPENGEE'S REPORT. 47
sat»6ied'liim of the dangerous nature of the institution, and its adaptaticm to
die cwninis^^loti and conceahnent of crime, that he has ahjiired aU connex-
ion with it, and has united his voice and his cflbrts with the u;reat multitude
of his fclJow citizens in that quarter, to exterminate it from the soil of .
America, liurraj^e Smith died in J\ew Orleans some time after the pur-
suit for him. William King returned to his family in iNiagara,and published
a blustermg notice to Messrs. Bates and Garlin^ioase of his having come
back t(y stand his trial. Jmmediate measures were taken for his arrest, and
he was put under heavy bonds. The next day, after hearing that Brace
bad testified to the fact, that King accompanied him in the carriage which
contained Morgan,' and had crossed the Niagara river with him, Col. King
suddenly died, as was said, in an apoplectic fit. John Whitney also re-
turned at his leisure, and was afterwards tried.
*
"At the February Sessions of Ontario county, in 1829, an attachment was
issued against Lyman Aldrich for not appearing as a witness ui)on the
indictment against Gillis and Whitney, pursuant to a subpoena; and his
recognizance, entered into for that puipose, was' forfeited. He was arrested
and comnutted to prison, and by that means his attendance at the ensinmg'
court was secured. '
Attachments were also issued against Nicholaa Gn
Cbesefap, Edward Sawyer, and Thomas M. Boughton, who had bean sub- •
poBnaed as witnesses oo the same indictment.
**
In May, 1 829, inquiries were renewed by the special attorney before the
grand ]ury of Niagara county. A multitude of witnesses were examined,
and, although many imjiortant collateral facts were elicited, yet the great
point—the murder of William Morgan—could not be legally established.
At this time, an irregularity was discovered which might prove fatal to the
indictments found in that county, and new bills were prepared and found
against the persons who had already been indicted.
" Prevbus ta this time, eficnis were made to procure the attendance of
CsETA PlaU as a witness.' This was the individual who had hired his est*
riiige to a person he did not know, which had been employed in the trans*
portation of Morgan, and for the hire of which he had charged a royaf
arch chapter. He had removed to the city of Albany, where he was pub-
licly em])loycd in a stage-ofhce. His previous conduct had been such that
good cause existed to procure a warrantjbr his arrest, with a view to bind
him over to appear as a witness. Application was made to judge Duer,
the then circuit judge of that district, who granted the warrant, which
was put into the hanos of an officer. Piatt suddenly, and immediately, dis-
appeared. F^se and delunve information was given of the place of his
ccmcealment, and search was there made for hink in vain. Tiie first au-
thentic account received of him was, that he bad gone to the state of New
Jersey, where he remained so long as his testimony as a wimess was
required.
" Notwithstanding these difficulties, at the Ontario General Sessions in May,
1829, the indictment against John Whitney and .James* Gillis was brouglit
to trial. Whitney had returned, as before mentioned. Gillis was in tlie
state of Pennsylvania. Whitney was convicted, but tlie jury could not
agree as to Giltis, they not having time to deliberate on the .subject before
the expiratioD of the term cS the court. Whitaey was senten^ to one
Digitized by Google
48 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION
year's imprisonment. On thi» trial, Lyman Aldrich, the witness who had
been the cause of much trouble, and delay, was offered as a witness, and was
objected to, on the ground of his want of religious belief. The question
was elaborately discussed, and he was finally admitted. On this mal, Eli
Bruce was produced as a witness on the part of ^e defendants. He testi-
fied to the fact of INIor^an's having been tianspocted to dbe l^agpua river,
falindiblded, of his having been carried across that river, returned and ^ut
up in fort Niagara, with the assistance of Bruce himself. At this tmn,
the opinion of the Supreme Court having been obtained upon the case of
the same Eli Bruce, he was sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail
for two years and four months. Previous to his sentence, Hiram B. Hopkins
was examined, and testified that he was the deputy of Bruce, and kept the
jail of Niagara county ; and that while Morgan was at Batavia, a plan was
on foot to bring him across the country to Loekport ; and that, in obeifience
to Brace's db^sctions, he had prepared a oeM' in the jail in wl^h taoonfitie'
Morgan while on his way to meet his doom. This shockmg perversSbii
of a building, consecratea to the purposes of justice, justly enhanced the
punishment of Bruce. During the whole term of his imprisonment, he Was
visited by freemasons from every part of the United States, who repaired to
his cell as that of a martyr suffering for the conscientious discharge of some
liigh and imperative duty. Notwithstanding the atrocity of his guilt, so
clearly established by the testimony of his deputy and his own evidence,
yet crowds daily tlironged around liim, testilving their sympathy and their
respect. Every comrart that tiie laws wuujd dow was provided for him f
'li^b^^fiidies of character waited upon him in penon, iii^ dt^aMi^
{ie^pmr^ #eir own hands. The same jail has oAen contained firee^
masons, imp^iMed for debt, who were never cheered hy the visits,^ so-
laced by the sympathy, of their brethren I
At the' same court, an attachment was issued against james Mather for
refusing to obey a subpoena to appear as a witness on the trial of Whitn'fey.
Edward Sawyer was fined twenty-five dollars for his contempt in not ap-
pearing at a former court as a witness. John Voorhis was indicted for
dissuading Lyman Aldrich from attending a former court as a witness, and
for carrying him off to prevent his appearance. These persons were all
members of the masonic fratermty..
^' In June, 1820, a grand jury assembled at the Court of General SessionSy
held for .the county of Genesee, at Batavia, and tst effi>rt was made to
discover the persons, in that county, who had been eng^iged in the conspiracy
against Morgan. Exertions had been made at an early period, in that county,
before grand juries, to develope the transactions at Batavia. But, all at-
tempts having been baffled, they were not renewed until this time. Persons
had been indicted, tried and convicted for a riot in the outrages upon David
C. Miller and his printing oflice, in wliich the Illustrations of Morgan had
been printed. But^ no bUls had been found against any persons for the
offences against Morg^, and of course there were none pending. One
of the standing counsel the persons indicted in other counties, however,
attended. The purpose must oe left to coojecture, except so iar as it is
explained by subsequent occurrences. Eli Bruce was brought, on a Aa6e«t
eorput, from the jail of Ontario^ to testify befi»e this ginmd jury in Genesee^
MR. BP£NC£R S REPORT. 49
While <m his way to the jury room, and before he reached it, a letter was
put into his hands from the counsel so attending. Upon Bruce's being
mQ||it1>efiire the grand jury, he peremptorily l^fiised to be sworn as a
witness. A great number of m^oos from distant parts Had .collected at
Batavia ; and they, together witAhdr brethren of the order residing at that
lace, were much elated at this refusal of Bruce,jmd complimented him
ighly for what tbej were pleased to call his c(Mi9teii^.|Bl4 fidelity.
" Numerous wimesses were examined, and a new scene in the drama was
developed. Indictments were found against William R. Thompson, Nathan
Follett, Blanchard Powers and William Seaver, for a conspiracy to kidnap
William Morgan, and carry him from Bata\ia to parts unknown. Thompson
was the sherilf of that county ; the others were ail respectable citizens.
"la July, 1829, a court of Oyer and Terminer was held in Niagara
county, at iHtich it was intended to bring on the trial of ihe mdictments that
had bieen previously Ifbund in .^t eoontv. Bnl they were all removed, at
the instance of the defendants, into the »ipieme Court, by cerdorarL The
examinations before tlie erand jury were resumed. Among others, James
Mather was examined, ana gave such unsatisfactory and equivocal answers,
that the jury reported him to the court, by whom he was admonished ; but
all efforts ikiled to obtain from hiin such answers as the jury deemed satis-
factory.
Between this and the next courts that were held, efTorts were made
to obtain some witnesses who had kept secreted, and whose places of residence
Wef^if2l||fdiscovered. Upon satisfactory proof being made to the first judge
MX Blttp^-'cic^iuity, a warrant was obtained from him for the arrest of Prior
Harris, m order to hold him- to bail for his appearance as a witness. This
man was the ddver of the stag^ which had ^one to the west of Rochester
on the same day that Morgan was carried through that place. The
warrant was obtained with great secrecy, and put into the hands of a confi-
dential officer, who proceeded to the county of Montgomery to execute it.
While riding in the staire, tlirough that county, he met and passed Harris,
who was driving another stage. The officer proceeded immediately to the
sheriff of the county, to obtain a deputation which would authorize him to
execute his process there. On his return to tlie pl^e where Harris had
Stopped with Ins stage, the officer discovered thai he had suddenly fled,
leavmg his stage and horses. All attempts to discover Urn were fruits
less. The officer is of opinion that he was followed firom Rochester, or
accompanied by some one who gave the alarm, or the sign of distress, 46
Harris.
" Hannidi Famsworth, a relative of Solomon C. Wright, who was believed
to be an important witness, had, for a long; time, baffled all efforts to compel
her attendance at court. At length a warrant for her arrest was obtained,
and a vigilant officer succeeded in taking her. On bringing her before a
judge to give bail for her appearance, she and her friends refused to give
hail, and she was committed to the custody of the sheriff of Ontario.
"In August, 1829, at the Ontario General Sessions, an attempt was made
to bring on the trial.of die indictment against Solomon C. Wright, for per-
jury committed on -die trial of Bruce. But fiom the absence of important
witiiesifti, it was impossible. '
Hannah Famsworth, the wicness who had
7 .
.
Digitized by Google
4S0 SEOOKD NATIONAL ANTI'lUSQNIG CONVENTION.
been detained in order to testify on the trial of Wright, was dischiucgiBd hy
the court, on her entering into a. recognizance for her appearance, and making
a promise, in open ronit, that she would Appear., She never afterwards
appeared or could be found.
*' At the same court, Eiijah J. Robcrt^the editor of a newspaper called
the Craftsman, was indicted for a libel on the jury who convicted John
Whitney. This paper had been established by coiiUiljuiiuus of masons,
and was patronized almost exclusively by them, for the purpose of vindicate
ing tbeir order. Its edited bad warmly espoused the cause of the mdicted
persons, and represented them as innocent and persecuted^ men, while his
Eaper overflowed with abuse of every public oiEcer. and private citizen who
ad taken any part in tlie exertions to bring to punishment the kidnappers
of Morgan. He was tried on this indictment in January, 1 630, when the
jury could not n^ree oii their verdict. It was afterwards ascertained that
tiie disagreement proceeded from four. masons who were on tlie jury. He
was again tried in June, 1830, wlien lie did not even" call a witness to prove
the libels he had published, and he was convicted wiihuut hesitation, and
fined fifty dollais. The history of this case is introduced in consequence
of its coniiexion with the main trials, and to exhibit, one of the instaiK^es
of the operation of masonic feeling in the jury box. ,
^.
"In August, 1829, a court of Oyer and Terminer was held for Monroe
*ff&i^*-9 ^^^1 ^^^^ court at which a grand jury would be
)l^siMii1^ed in that county, before the statute of limitations would attach upon
prosecutions for the conspiracy and kidnapping, preparations were made for
a more thorough investigation than had yet been had. Orson Parkhurst,
the driver of Piatt's carriage, which conveyed Morgan fi*om Rochester, had
absented iumseii from the slate immediately after that transaction. His
place of concealment had been changed, from time to time, but at length
It was .discovered. An agent was employed to go in pursuit of him, and
to bring him to the state of iNew York. The agent succeeded in finding
lum in a sequestered part of the state of Vermont, and brought him to within
forty or fifty miles of Rochester. He had been watched at Albany, on his
return through that place, and was foOowed on his way to the west. At
night, a stranger came on board the canal boat, in which the agent and Park*>
hurst were, and in fhe course of the night Parkliurst disappeared, and no
tidings have since been had of him. It is believed t'.^at this man could have
identified many persons at Rochester, as having been engaged In the carry-
ang Morgan tlirough that place.
" inquiries, however, were pursued before the grand jury ; much informa-
ticm was obtmned: and an indictfcnent fi»r conspiracy and kidnapping was
icHmd f^ainst the Kev. Francis H. Gumming, a settled clergyman at Roches*
Vsif who bad been regarded as among the most respectable of his profession.
"At this court, tlie indictment against Simeon B. Jewett was removed
into the Supreme Court, by the defendant.
" In. September, 1$29, a further exammation of witnesses was had before
a grand jury in Niagara county ; and bills of indictment were found against
Henry Maxwell, Norman Shepard,and another, whose name is not recollect-
ed, for a conspiracy to remove Morgan from Bata\'ia and kidnap him. An
attachment was issued against John W. Beals,who had been duly subpoenaed
Digitized by Google
MR. SFEI^CFJl'S K£?OKT. 61
as a witness to atteud this court, and had refused to attend. He b a matoft
of high grade, as is undmlood, and a Tery«respectafale dtben* He was
taken on the attachment, and gave bail, to appear and answer for his con-
tempt. He did not appear, and his bonds were forfeked^r^^ >i ,
<
^ **la October, 1829, Simeon B. Jewett made a motion to the Supreme
Court to quash the indictment ibund ag^dnst him in Monroe county, on
several grounds ;—that the town officers, m selecting grand jurors, had
evinced partiality in not taking any mason?, and returning many anti-masons ;
and that some of the grand jurors had expressed opinions unlavorahie to his
innocence. Ttie motion was denied. Tlie court held that the discretion
of selecting grand jurors was vested, hy law, exclusively in the supervisors;
and the only power the court had, was to inquire wiietiier any of tliose
actually returned possessed the qualifications required by law, and, as the
contrary had not even been alleged, there was no ground for die objection.
With that latitude of remark which judges are sometimes yiipt to indulge,
upon matteis, in respect to which they previously admitted that they
bad na p6w9r, some of the court thought proper to express disapproba-
tion of toe supervisors' exc^dio^ any set of men, on the ground of their
belonging to any particular assCctation or fraternity,—although it had just
been admitted that the discretion rested wholly with the supervisors. This
remark, whicli was entirely extra-judicial, is, therefore, as liaijle to observa-
tion as if it had not been made on the bonfii. Can any unprejudiced man
seriously lliink that members of a fraternity should be placed upon the
inquiring and accusing jury, which had in charge an accusation that vitally
afiected that frat6rnity ? Apply the principle to any benevolent society, to a
jchuidi, to a bankii% company ; would any one, in his senses, sdect the
*membm of such societies or companies, to investigate a chaf|se, which,
if true, ought to destroy the society ? But the objection applied with lenfcdd
force to the selection oi masons to detect and prosecute the peraons engaged
in the offences against Morgan. The facts detailed in this report show how -
far they had made common cause with the oflfenders, and how little they
were to be trusted. A thousand corroborative farts and circumstances,
which were daily passing before the eyes of an intellicenl people, eviticed
the close connexion between the masons, and their aent ral defence of the
outrages. Add to this, that the homd obligations of the fraternity to conceal
each other's crimes, to fly to the assistance of each other in every extremity,
save that of endangering life, and to espouse the cause of a brother, whether
right or wrong, had been revealed, and repeatedly .confirmed by judbial
eviiknce. Wc^d it not have been a dereliction of duty to appoint men,
under such circumstances, to determine whether tfa^ brethren should be
punished for an ofi^ce committed under 4he sanction of masonic oUigations ?
The subject might be more amply discussed, but thus much seemed due to
a body of honest and independent citizens, who have been traduced beyond
measure for the performance of a sacred aod solemn dut^, according to the
dictates of their consciences, and for giving a decision smiilar to what has
been had in the highest court of the state, for the trial of issues of fiuJt, and
by one of the judges of its Supreme Court.
"At a court of Oyer and Terminer, held for the county of Orleans, in
the month of November, 1829, Elihu Mather was brought to trial, on tlw
Digitized by Google
52 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
loikmmA against faim bafare aMkxied, M^wmftuBf^Wd kkbapping.
The than spMMl taanasA detMRmined to tett» m die meet folmi end Icnnnid^-
flMDner, the ijuestioii, whether freemasons weie competent juiors on the**
trial of issues m which^e biother mason was a pai^. The first juror called,
who was known to be a mason, was Robert Anderson. The special counsel
challenged him peremptorily, on the ground that he belonged to the same
society and corporation with the defendant. It was admitted that the royal
arch chapter was incorporated, that the juror and defendant were both mem-
bers of it ; and the English authorities were adduced, -which declare that
it is a sufficient ground for peremptory challen2;e, that the juror belongs
to tlie same society or corporation with a partv. The circuit judge overruled"
the challenge ; and the juror was then challenged ibr favor, as it is called,
on the fgcowad thai he was not impartial ; that he belonged to a secret
society^ oalled freemaaonsy of which the defendant also was a membW) and'
that they had taken oaths which bound them to assist each other in every
extremity. Triers were appointed by the court ; witnesses were catted- 10'
paove the masonic ohli|ations, and among others the juror himself was
amined. After a long investigation and discussion by coonsel, the juror waS
rejected. Another juror, by the name of John Dolly, was soon after called,
and challenged for favor on the same ground. A desperate efibrt was made,
by the counsel for the prisoner, to procure the admission of this juror. The
triers were agreed upon by the counsel on both sides, and appointed by the
court. The masonic oaths and obligations, up to, and including, that of the;
royal arch companion, were proved by the most respectable wimesses ; and th<
appeared to be precisely those reveued bvlfVilliain Morgui,' and the Le Rl
convention of seceding masons, and which are contamea in Bernard's
on Masonry. • In order to impair the efiect -of this testimony, the counsel for
the defendant called William W. Ruggles, a master of a lodge, an adherin§;:^
mason, and one of the counsel §ar the defendant, and endeavored to show,
by him, that lectures were given in the lodges, explanatory and qualifying the'
obligations. This attempt was an entire failure ; but the witness was com-
pelled, in the course of his testimony, to repeat the oaths ; and he confirmed
the witnesses on the part of the prosecution, particularly that the master
mason's oath contained an obligation to keep the secrets of a brother, with
the exception of murder and treason ; and that the oath of a royal arch
companion contained a promise ' to espouse \he cause of a brother engaged
b any quarrel or difficiilty, so far atf to extricate Inm irom the same, whether
he was right or wrong.' After a severe and obstinate coiotest, this juror was
>al80 rejected by the triers. The trial proceeded, and the fact that Mather,-
the defendant, a respeetable farmer, had, himself, turned hack-driver, and
drove the (jgesriage containing Morgan through the county of Orleans, .was
abundantly proved. From the difficulty of extracting the facts fixjm the
witnesses, the point that Morgan was forcibly carried away with the knowledge
of Mather, depended on the circumstances of the case, which, although they
were stron<z.and would have been abundant in an ordinary cause, were deem-
ed not conclusive. In addition to tliis, the judge charged the jur}'' erroneously
on a point of law, as was afterwards determined by the Supreme Court,
and the defendant was acquitted. In the trial of the cause, a witness, who
was a royal arch companion, and who resided in a distant and remote part
MR. SPE^ICEIl'S REPORT. 53
of Um tMtified, that atar.HOme of tlia proMBtttions: bad boeit tsw»^
Hheaoad, Matbcr appfied to the chapter where the witness redded, for funda
to lelieve and defend A»ce 'and his associates. The witness could nol^
or would not, relate the fesult of the application. In the course of this
trial, William P. Dantek was exai^iiied «s a whness. He was a fireemasoo,
and came into court attended by counsel, to whom lie resorted, when a
question was asked him, to advise him whether to answer it or not. He
several times declined answering questions ;
and, on one occasion, persisted
ill l)is r( fiTsal nutil th j t^r ler for his corninilment ^ns nearly completed, when
lie relrntt d. P>iii In was excused from answering »some important questions,
on tiie ground tiiat hy answering he would criminate himself. At one time,
he referred to a written memorandum^ and read from it bis answer to a
question that had been pressed vpop Jtim ; upon inquiry, he staled that the
MiiM]ioranduRi-had'been4)repared Ibr him by nb counsel ! > ' -
At lliBH^a^bMAi^ temr 01 Hba Siqpreia»*CoQi% in January, 1630, the iax*
^i^ftiqpy ^yhiftb^iftd been taken to the charge of the judge in Mather's case,
vikr%4tfga!Bif^A, in the ensuing May, that court decided that the Judge had
been lia erlefr ; but for some reason, which it would be difficult to state, the
court reftised to direct a new trial, —and Mather has thus escaped. At the
same term of the Supre^ie Court, Simeon B. .Tewett (who had been in-
dulged with that time for plejuliiiL!; to his indictment) interposed a plea, that
one of the grand jurors wdio found tiie bill had not the requisite pn^perty
qualification. A motion was made to overrule this plea as frivolotis. The
court expresiSed iis impression that the plea was bad, but refused tlie motion
tp^oyerrule it, for the purpose of enabling the defendant to place it upon the
was then demuned to ; the demurrer was aigued in the succeed*
ing May term \ and nme months afterwards, in January, 1831, the court fop*
mally decided that the [dea was bad. In that state the indictment still remains.
A^**In April, 1830, preparations were made for tiTing the uidicAmeDts in t^
county of Niagara, but the judge refused to try them. * .
'^*ln May, 1830, J. C. Spencer resigned the office of special counsel, at-,
leging, in a letter which was puhlished, that his confidential communicauons
to tlie executive, under wliose authority he acted, had been disclospd, so as
to reach the counsel for the accused and enable them to paralyze ius exer-
tions; and that, instead of leaving to the executive and the accounting officer
of the state, as the law had originally provided, tlie adjustment of the com-
gensation of the counsel, according to the services actually rendered, a law
ad been passed, fixing it at a sura so erossly inadequate as to Imply a re^ ^
ptoach in Uie officer and a want of oonfidenoe.in hb exertions, or an opinion
that the prosecufions and their ol^t were unimportant During the pre*
ceding winter, ihe senate of the state, of whom a large piopordon, H not
majority, were masons, had passed a resolution calling on the comptroller for
a detailed account of all the expenses incurred by the special counsel,:widi all
the vouchers for the items. The accounts and vouchei-s were accordinglj^';!
furnished and puhlished, and thus disclosed to the world nnd the accused, tlie
name of every witness who had been examined on the finding of the several
indictments, and who was relied upon to sustain them. Every facility was
thus given to the operation of the causes tliiL iiad so often prevented wit-
nesses fipom being found when they were wanted ;
and, when found, had
Digitized by Google
64 SECOND NAUQHAL ANTI'IUBCUIIC <K>NVBNTI01I.
prevented their attendance ; or, if they attended, had prodnced.abon and
imperfect memories. The eBbits of an ojflScer of the government were ttam
repudiated by the government itself; something worse than indi^rence wa»
exhibited nt the success of his exertions ;
and, mstead of being sustained by
the countenance of the government, he was left to contend ag^ainst the large
body of indicted indivuhials, and against the whole machinery of masonic
combination, including ilie libels of the press, singly and unaided. That
ofHcer declared that, under such circumstances, he could be of no fiirdier
use in conducting the prosecutions ; and he rcijigned his station, that it might
he occupied by some one possessing, in a higher degree, the confidence
of the executive. The usual and customary weapons of the fiBateroity were
^ resorted to and employed to prevent the impression, which such occurrences
would naturaJly make upon tlie public n^ind. Hie most atrocious calumny
was heaped upon the officer by the masonic piess« The executive added
to die charge of violating official conQdendal communications, by publ^ing
official letters of the most sacredly confidential character, in which the specin
counsel had inquired whether a proclamation of a previous governor, onering
a reward and pardon for tlie discovery of the murderers of Morgan, was still
in force ? and asking the advice and direction of the executive whether a
direct application of die promises in tliat proclamatiou should be made to a
particular witness ? The moral sensibilities of the associates and defenders of
man-stealers and murderers were aroused, and they were shocked at such at-
tempts, to bribe witnesses ! The ^cov ernor, who had ofiered the reward, escaped
aU censure ; but the agent, who prop<^d to obe^ the directi<xis of his superior^
received the fbll measure of rmsomc indignation. Perhaps jl more stmpDg
rebuke of Slich glaring hypocrisy could not be ftimished, than that which the
same governor, very sliortly afterwards, hunself exhibited, in offering a re-
ward and pardon for the discovery of the persons who had set fire to a
powder-mill ! Mr. Y. Birdseye was appointed special counsel, and entered oa
tlie duties of the oflice.
"On the 15Ui of June, 1830, a special circuit was held in Niagara county,
by IVlr. Marcy, then one of the justices of the Supreme Court ot Aew York.
The first indictment tried was that aj^ainst Ezekiel Jewett. Orsamus Turner
was called as a witness ; but, befort; <ms\vering any questions, desired to con-
sult with his counsel. This was refused, and the examinatbn proceeded.
He was presently asked whether the defendant, Jewett, was one of the
persons consulted with, in relation to separating Morgan from his friends
in Batavia, as a means of suppressing the cratempTated publication of a
book containing the secrets of freemasonry. He declined answering it, on
the giound that it would implicate him -m a prosecution for the murder
of Morgan. The court told him, that he was bound to know that he was
"guilty of the murder of Morgan, and that his answer would afford a key by
which his e;uik would be ex}X)sed, before he could refuse to answer on 'hat
t!;rouiid. The court overruled the claim of privilege, and told tlie witness
he must answer ; to which he answered, *I will not answer.' He was then
sentenced to imprisonment for thirty days, and to a fine of two hundred and
fifty dollars. He was then asked whether he knew that Jewett was applied
to for a place in or about 1- c .t Niagara, for the purpose of confining William
M(»*gan. This he refused U} answer, and was sentenced to imprisonment in
Diyitizeo by GoOglc
- MR. SPENCER S REPORT. 55
ik^'tkKMty jail 'Iht thirty days. He was then asked whether he was present
wbeu the suBject of preparing a [^ace for the confinement of Mor^^au was
discussed, in the presence of the defendant. Thb, also, he refused to answer,
and was sentenced to iinprisonment in the county jail for thirty (lays. Dur-
ing })is confinement, this witness was supplied by his masonic friends with
every luxury that the country could furnish aqd that money could procure
he was constantly visited hv his masonic brethren, and their wives and
dau2;hters; and, at the oKpiration of his term of imprisonment, was conducted
from the jail to his residence in a coach and lour, with attending masons^
shouting at the ti iumph of crime over justice !
" But to return to tiie trial. Eli Bruce was calletl to tlie stand, and re-
fused to be sworn, saying, * I was once before sworn and examined, and
no good came of it.' He was sentenced to imprisonment m the jail of
Ontario county Jfor thirty days; John Whitney was next called, and be, also,
Bsfiised to be sworn, ue tvas sentenced to thirty days' imprisonment, and
to pay a fine of two hundred and fifty ('.Gilai's.
, "Upon the same trials William P. Daniels was examined, and refused to
answer whether he was at Solomon C. Wright's house on the evening be-
fore the installation of a chapter in L#ewiston, and deliberately swore, that
the answer to the question 'would involve him in a crime move •^^erious than
a misdemeanor—an indictment aiciiinst him as an accessary, before tlie fact,
to the murder of More;an.' Ho was \\ ;ii iiL'd that he must know more of the
fact that Morgan was murdered, than the public generally did, before he could
make such an excuse, and he was cautioned as to the consequences of his
swearing fiilsely ; but he persisted in his refosal, and in the reason assigned
for it, and of course was excused from answering the main question. He,
too, was attended by counsel, whom be consulted as- questions were pro*
pounded to him. •
"After such refusals, and a thousand prevarications of other witnesses, the
defendant was acquitted, although not an individual who heard the tiial had
a doubt of his jjuilt.
''The indictment atcnuist Jeremiah Brown was also brought on to trial,
and the same solemn farce was gone through, which resulted in his acquittal.
"Durina: these trials, Judge Marcy rejected one mason as a juror, on the
ground that lie had voluntarily entered into obligadons wliich were incom-
patible with the impartial discharge of bis duty. He admitted another
mason as a juror, between whose case and that of the former no. diffisience
eodd be perceived but this, that the latter juror declared be did not him-
self thmk his masonic obligations would sway him.
" Much had been expected from this court, from the circumstance that
one of the highest judicial oOicers of the state had been taken from his
appropriate duties and sent to hold the circuit. It was supposed that his
learning, talents nnd rnersiy would have commanded respect and deference.
End would pmictrale the thick clnnd that buns; over the deeds of darkness
respecting Morii^an. But ma'^onic oblljialions were found superior to the arm
of the law, and Justice was vancpiished in her own temple. The court adjourn
eJ, after a session of more than three weeks, without accomplishing any thing
" At the Ontario Sessions, m February, 1830, James Matherwas fined tiVen
ty-five dollars, for his contend in w% appearing as a witness at a fimner oonrt.
Digitized by Google
56 SECOiND NATIONAL AMTMlASOlflO OONVENTION.
f'ln Notember, 1830, at die Ontario Staaiam^ Jamea Gillis was tiiecl en
his indictment, and acquitted. The then special oounsel made no ofajeo-
tioDS to masons sitting as juiors.
«*
In March, 1831 , another Special circuit was held in the county of Nia^
ara, by Judge Nelson, then recently appointed to the bench of the Supreme
Court. The indictment against Elisha Adams was broutrbt to trinl, nnd
after a long examination of numerous "witnesses, which established in tlie
minds of all whose minds were susceptible of the impressions of irutli, tiie
undoubted piilt of the defendant ; yet one of the jurors, by the name of
WiJIiani WiUson, who was a mason, refused to concur with his eleven
brethren, expressly declaring that he would not believe witnesses who had
violated iheir masonic obligations. The juiy were acoordinglv discharged*
The misemble Adams has since been called to another bar, where no mya>
tic ties and no impious oaths will screen him from an all-seeing eye.
" Parkhurst WWtney, Noah Beach, &imuel M. Chubbuck, Timothy Shaw,
and William Miller, were also brought to trial. Whimey, Beach and Mil-
ler were acquitted ; tlie jury could not agree as to Shaw and Chubbuck,
and they were discharged. Norman Shepard and Henr}' Maxwell were
also tried and lu quitled, the v. nnesses not remembering, on the trial, facts
that they acknowledged they had sworn to before die grand jury, or remem-
bering them in such a manner as rendered them nugatory. Nothing worthy
of special police occurred at these trials beside what has been mentiuned.
After a session of some weeks, Jtidee Nelson adjourned his court, leaving
the investigation ver)^ much where Jud^ Msrcy had left it. It was impos-
eible to obtam convk^tions if masons were on the jury. Li other cases, wit>
nesses absconded, or refused to answer, or answered so equivocallr that no
reliance could be placed on thelir testimony. One of them, by me name
of Murdock, piu*posely absented himself in a nilghboring county, until the
trials were over.
iJuring all these trials, of which an account has been sivcn, beginning
with that of Elihu Mather, the same corps of counsel appeared for the de-
fendants, indiscriminately. They were gentlemen of distinguished profes-
sional character, who were not in the habit of bestowing their services gra-
tuitously. They spent months in this service, absent from their J^milies
and their business* The enormous expense wUcfa must htfve been incurred
in, their employment could not have been defrayed by the defendants in all
cases, for ttiey are known to be utterly unable to do so. Speeulatkii, of
course, has been afloat, as to the source whence their compensation was
derived. After the evidence which was given on one of the trials, of appli-'
cation being made to n distant chapter to contribute to the defence of the
persecuted masons in the west of New York, and after the developements
whi( l i i)ave recently been made of appropriaUonsby the Grand Lodge of one
hundred doUajs to Eli Bruce, and by the Grand Chapter of New York of
one thousand dollars for an indefinite charity, which has never been account-
ed for or explained,—^it is not a very irrational conclusion that the masonic
body, as such, have furnished the means of defending these criminals.^ It
should be known, that the laws of New York make ample pronskni t»
eounsel ft»r those prisonen who are tmable to employ them.
Digitized by Google
fi7
^tlpamiiS;^;^^ tenriiiMfii» of the last trials at Lockport, be&re-
mentkmed, in April, 1831, the statute, authorizmg the appointment of a
special counsel, -expired its own limitation, and the majority of ihe com-
mittee of the assembly of^New York, to which the subject was refened,
lefused to recommend a renewal of the law. There remain four or five
indictments still undetermined. With the insufficient means of the county
attorneys, who are the public prosecutors, to contend ogainst such obstacles
as are constantly interposed, and with the general impression, that all
attempts to obtain a fair administration of justice in these cases, will be
fruitless, it is presumed that no further trials will be had. The sword of
justice has fallen pointless autl blunted at the feet of freemasonry.
" In May^ 1831, Solomon C. Wright was brought to trial on the indictment
against him fei perjury, at the Ontario General Sesaons. *He had sworn
t&t no suspicipus carriage had arrived at his house in September, 1826,
and had demed other circumstances calculated to identify the persons ' and
the carriage conveying Morg^. On his tri il, it was abundantly ^own that
his testimony in these respects was false i but the court held that the raaite*
riality of these facts, In the original case, was not sufTicIcnily shown, and he,
too, was arqiiitted, Tiiis is the last trial that has taken place, growing outpf
the abduction of William Morgan.
"It is not inappropriate to the subject of this report to state, that the fire
persons who have been convicted, either upon their own^contesslons, or
upon the most conclusive pro^ofs, oi a partlcipauon in the forcible abduction
of William Morgan,—to wit,Che^bro, Sawyer, Lawson, Bruce ^d Whit-
ney,—remain in full standing and fellowship, as membeis of the masonic
Mer,'and have not, in any way, been proceeded against by the lodges or
ohapters. One of those under indictment, Simeon B. Jewett, has been
elevated to high and distinguished honors in the fraternity, and notice of the
£ict has been publicly advertised in the newspapers of New York. Proba-
bly such an impudent defiance of the pubhc authority has no parallel in our
history.
" It is also j)roper to remark, in connexion with this subject, that in the
winter of 1830, a petition was presented to the Assembly of New Yoi'k,
prayins; that an inquiry nn'2;ht be instituted by that body into the conduct of
the Royai Aich Chapter of that state, ^particularly in appropriating money to
assist the kidnappers in escaping from justice, and that the act incorporating
the chaj^ter might be repealed. This petition was shuffled off by a refer-
ence of it, on the order of the house, to the attorney-general, who was him-
self a member of the same royal arch chapter.
*'The duty imposed on this committee has now been discharged. It is
regretted that so much of detail became necessary, in order to present the
fects and incidents required by the resolution of the Convention. Although
many of these details are familiar to most of tlie members, yet many of
them are presumed to be new. Their collection into one mass, and their
arrangement in the order of events in which thf v occurred, will give to
every one, however familiar with the ii;eneral hi^toi v of the case, a more
clear and distinct perception of that body of evidence which, in die judg-
ment oi your committee, establishes beyond the possibility of contradiction,
the systematic interference of the masonic firatemity, to defeat the regular
Digitized by Google
fi8 SECOim NATXOtfAL M1%aiAfiK)kNIC COinnGNTION.
adnuBiadstioiiofjoitifie.. It remains ibr an inteUi^eiit pecmle to we%h these
facts, to compare them with the terms of the masonic obligations, with the
whole object and spirit of tlie fraternity, and with the fundamental basis of
the compact between its members, and then determine whether the exist-
ence of such an order of men is compatible with that equality of rights and
pri\ ileges promised by our constitLiiiuiis, or whether it can be tolerated co^^-
Siistent with a maintenance of liie supremacy of THt law.**
CoDvention adjoumed to four o'clock, P. M.
Four o^clock, P, Mi
Convention met, pui-suant to adjournment.
Messrs* Pike and Fovnm, fiom Ohao, appeared and took their seals*
Tlie reports of the comimttees on the construction of masonic penalties,
and on the hbtory of judicid proceedings, heing under consideration, a de-
hate ensued, in winch Messrs. Foote, of New York, Hallbtt, of Rhode
Island, Ward, of New York, Mobbis, of New York, Seward, of
New York, Walker, of MassHBchusetts, and Habvxt, of Pennsylvania,
took part.
Mr. Northrop, of New Jersey, appeared and took his seai
The K ports^n the construction of masonic penalties, and on die history
ofjudicial proceedings, were oi-dered to be printed.
On motion of Mr. Jones,—
Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed to report on the extent
to wliich the principles of freemasonry are political, and the opposition to
them by an organized political party.
Messrs. JoiNEs, of Pennsylvania, Seward, of New York, Sloane, of
Oiiio, Bailey, of Massachusetts, and Kmeky, of New Hampshire, were ap*
pointed said committee.
The Conveudon adjourned till nine o'clock, to-moiiow monung.
Wkdnuiay, Sept. 28.
Convention met, pursuant to adjournment.
Mr. WiLUAH Vanderpool, of New Jersey, appeared and took Us seat.
Mr. Seward, of New York, submitted the following preamble and reso-
lution, which were i*ead and passed ;
Wherpas \Villiam G. Verplank, of BalJston, Saratov county. New
York, a delegate originally appointed by liie state convention of the state of
New York, has, since the last acyoumment, arrived in this city, hawng been
detained hy accident upon his journey, and whereas the place of said dele-
s' has heen supplied as a vacancy^
Buolved That said Wiixiam G. Verpi.ank he admitted to a seat as an
hoQofaiy member, widi the privUege of participating in the debnesi but
Mt in the foles) of tlua CenteDtion.
Digitized by Google
JOURNAL OF liiOCEBDINGS. 69
Mr. SiMiTEL J, Pacber, of Pennstyivaiiia, was also admitted to a seat in
the Convention, in accordance with the fi>regoing resolution.
On motion of Mr. Phelps, of MassachusetLs, tlie resolution relative to the
noiiiu ration of candidates for the offices of president and vice president of
the United States was reconsidered, and amended, so as to strike out tliat
part requiring the Convenyoo to go htto committee of the whole''
that purpose.
Mr. Hambly, of Pennsylvania, being absent, on motion of Mr. InwiN, of
Pennsylvania, Mr. Pacuer was admitted to vote in his stead.
On motion of Mr. Walker, of Massachusetts,—
Voteif To proceed to hnllot for candidates for tl)e offices of president
and vice president of the Lhiited States.
Messrs, Phelps, of Massachusetts, and Stevens, of Pennsylvania, were
appointed, by the president, tellers to receive, sort and count the votes.
The tellers being seated at the table, in the centre of the hall, the Con-
vention then proceeded to ballot for a candidate to be supported for the high
office of president of. the United States, at the next dectiou. Each mem*
ber rose, came to tiie table, and deposited his ballot m an open box, as bb
name was called. Wh^n all Iiad voted, and the number of ballots had been
found to equal precisely the number of members pi'esent, Mr* Phelps, the
first named teller, then proceeded to read aloud the name on each ballot,
and passed the same to Mr. Stevens, the other teller. When the whole
was com|)leted, and tlie number correctly ascertained) as taken down by
the secretaries, Mr. Phelps reported, that
The whole number of votes given was - - • - 111
Three fourths beinc; necessary to a choice, - - - - 84
WITJJAM WIRT, of Maryland, had - - - - 108
Rk HARD Kusu, of Pennsylvania, - - • - - 1
Blanks, - 3
The president announced the result.
On niotion.of Mr. Stevens, of Pennsylvania,
Resolved^ nvnmmously, Tliat William Wirt, of Mnn-lnnd, be nomi-
nated as the ami-masonic candidate for the ofiice of president of the United
States at the ensuins; elrrtion.
Resolved, Thai a cotniiiittee of three members be appointed to commu-
nicate the preceding resolution to Mr. Wirt, and to request his acceptance
of the above nomination. • '
Messrs. Rutbcsfobd, of New Jersey, Si«oans, of Ohio, and Elder, of
Pennsylvania, were appomted said committee.
The Convention then proceeded to ballot for vice president.
Mr. Stevens, one of the tellers, read the ballots, and reported as follows s—
Whole number of votes given, - - - - - * 1 10
Three fourths necessary to a choice, - • - - -.83
AMOS ELLMAKER, of Pennsylrania, teceiyed - lOS
JoHW C. S^SBToxK, of.New York, -
Blank, - - • * - - - 1
CO SECOND NATXONAX* ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
The president announced the result.
On motion of Mr. Phelps, of Massachusetts,— •
Resolved, unanimously. That Amos Ellmaker, of Pennsylvania, be
nominated by tliis Convention as tlie anti-masonic candidate for vice presi-
dent of the United States at the ensuing election.
Resolved, That a committee of three membeiii be appointed . to commu-
nicate the above resolution to Mr. Ei.lmakeb, and request his acceptance
of the above nomiDation*
Messrs. Bailey, of Massachusetts^ Ltkan, of New Yoric> aad Shbi¥eb»
of Maryland, were appointed said committee.
Oil uiotion of Mr. Morris, bf New York,
Resolved, unanimoiuilyf Thai a committee of tliree members be appoint-
ed to express, by written comm\imcation, to Hon. Richard Rush, of Penn-
sylvania, the profound sense of this Convention, of the patriotism, principle,
and firmness which dictated his eloquent exposition of the evils of freema-
sonry, and their high appreciation oi the beneficial results which it cannot
fail to produce,
Messrs. Morris, of New York^ Dbnkt, of Petmsylvania, and GibbinS|
of Delaware, were appointed said committee*
•
Mr. RiTTHERFiTBB, ffom the committee appointed to wait on Mr. IV^rt,
&c., reported that tbe committee had performed that doty, and that he
would send a written communication to tne Convention at five o'clock, P. M.
On motion of Mr. Hopkins, of New York,—
^ Besplv^^ vmmmmsly, That the thanlb of this Convention betpesented
to those citizens of Baltimore at whose expense this Convention has been
accommodated with the use of the splendid hall of the Athenaeum ; and that
this Convention have felt peculiar pleasure in receiving such a proof of hos-
pitality from the inhabitants of tlus elegant and polished city; and that the
president of tiiis Convention be requested to transmit a copy of this resolu-
lion to tbe mayor of Baltimore.
On motion of Mr. Turner, of ifliode Is1and,»«
Boohed, That the president of this Convention be requested to present
a copy of the printed Proceedings of this, and of the Anti-masonic Conven-
tion held at Pliikdelphia in September, 1830, to the president and vice
president of the United States, to tlie ex-presidents of tlie United States, to
the heads of the several departments, to Hon. John Marsh all, chief jus-
tice, and to each of ilie justices of the Supreme Court of the United
States, to the governors of the several states of the Union, to Gen. La
Fayette, to the Hod. Charles Carroll of CarroUton, to the mayor
of the citv of Baltimore, to the trustees of the Athenaeum, at Baltimore,
and to such other distinguished individuals of this (country as he may deem
expedient.
Oh the consideration of tins esolutbn, a debate ensued, in which Messrs.
Turner, of Rhode Island, Vanderpool, of New Jei t \ , Hallett, of
Rhode Island, Phblps, of Massachusetts^ Habvst, of Pennsylvania, and
MiLLSB, of Pennsylvania, took part
Digitized by
JOURNAL OF P|lOC£EI>nf.€M3. .61
I
Mr. Bailey, from the committee appointed to wait on Mr. Ellmakeic,
reported ihat the committee had perfi>mied the dut^r assigned them, and that
Mr. Ellmaker would shordy mSke a commumcation to the Conventioii;
The Conveutioii adjourned to five o'clock, P. M.
Met, pursuant to adjbuimnent *
I
BIr. Wabd, iirom the committee, reported resolutions, which were twice
read. Messrs. FuLiiBR, Foote, and Hopkins, of New York, IIallett, of
Rhode Island, and StEVENs, of Penns^lvaoia, severally addressed the Con-
vention in their support, and the resolutions were unanimously adopted
Resolved, That the existence of secret and affiliated socieues is hostile to
one of the princifial defences of liberty,—^free discusaon^—and can subserve
' no purpose of utihty in a free government.
Resolved, Thnt ^ve, as American citizens, will adopt the counsel ^riven us
by the illu^tlious Washington, "That all combinations and associations, under
whatever plausible cliaracter, with the real design to direct, control, coun-
teract, or awe tlie regular deliberation and action of the constituted authori-
ties, are destructive of the fundamental principle of liberty, and of fatal
tendency.*' ^
•
IU9olv9d, That the organization of die anti-masonic party b £>imded upon
the most satisfactory dnd undeniable evidence, that the masonic mstitution is
dangerous to the liberties, and subvei'sive of die laws of the country.
llesolved, That where evils of this nature are found existing in a free
government, holding, by means of a secret combination, a majority of the
civil, judicial, and military offices in the country, there are but two modes of
redressing the giievauce—either by revolution, or by an appeal to the ballot
boxes.
Resolved, That the anti-masonic party, in choosing the latter remedy,
have taken up the peaceful and legitimate weapons of freemen, and tliot they
ought never to lay them dow n in tliis cause, until the liberty of the press, the
liberty of speech, equal rights, and an entire overtlirow of masonic usurpa-
tions, are fully and completely achieved.
Hetolvedj That the direct object of freemasonry is to benefit the yeiv, at
the expense of the many, by creating a privileged cUus, in the midst of a
community entided to enjoy equal rights and privileges.
Resolvedf That we esteem it the plain duty of the members of that insti-
tution, as citizens of our common country, either collectively to abolish it,
or individually to abandon it.
Resolved, That wc have witnessed with pleasure, the efibrts on die part
of some of the masonic fraternity to produ(;e a voluntary abandonment of the
order. While we regard tliese efforts as the manifestation of homage to pub-
lic opinion, we should rejoice in their success, inasmuch as it would produce
a more speedy accomplishment of the ^reat object which the anti-masonic
party, with sindeness of purpose, are striving to efiisct.
Meaolvedf 'Tbat discussion, persuasion, and argument, in oonnecticm with
the exercise of the right of suffiagCi is a correct and speedy mode of diffiis-
.
J i^ .d by Google
£8 " SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
ng Hifixrmatkni upon die subject of freemasonry, and. Is the best method to
ensure the entire destruction of the institution.
Resolved^ That the oathk and obtigationa imposed upon persons when
admitted into masonic lodges and chapters, deserve, the unqualified reproba-
tion and abhorrence of every ChrisUan^ and eveiy liciend of morality and
justice.
Resolved., That these oaths, hc'mz illegally administered, and dc^icrnrd to
subserve 'fraudulent purposes, ought not to be regarded as binding in con-
science, morality, or honor; hut the liieher obligations of religion and civil
society retjuire them to be expjicitly r(Miouiiced by every good citizen.
litsohedj That the gigantic conspiracy in New York, against the life of
William Morgan, was the natural result of the oaths and obligations of ma-
soniy, understood and acted upon according to their plain end obvious
meaning. . .
•
Rooked, That there is sojQ^ent proof that the perpetrators of the ab-
duction and murder of William Morgan, have, in several instances, been
shielded from the punishment due to their crimes, by the Grand Lodge and
Grand Chapter of ^ew York, and by subordinate lodges and chapters,
acrording to their masonic obligations, whereby those lodges and chapters
have countenanced those outrages, and become accomplices in their guilt.
Resolved, That those masons who became acquainted with and concealed
the facts relative to the abduction- of Capt. William Morgan, are accessary to
that horrid transaction.
Resolved, Tiiat, in applying the right of suffrage to effect the suppression
of freemasonry, we not only exercise a ri^ht which is unalienably secured to
us, but discharee a duty of the highest oUigation, in thus endeavoring to abate
a great politicsu evil.
Resohed, That there can be no proscription, where every freeman has a
right—and ext rr ises that right—to vote for the candidate of his own choice.
. Roohtedj That anti-masonry, has for its object the desuuction of free-
masonry ; for its means, public opinion, manifested through the exercise of
tlje elective rnincbise ; that it acts upon the great principles of liberly, which
made us a free people, and relies upon them to ensure the attainment of its
high purpose.
Resolved, Th;u an actual adherence, by freemasons, to the principles con-
tained in the obligations of the order, is inconsistent with paramount duties,
which tliey owe to die state, and is a diii^uaiiiicauon for offices of public
trust,
Rie^ohfedf That we find, m the unexampled growth of the anti-masonic
parQr, the difiuston and prevalence c£ its principles, the continued approba-
tion bestowed upon^ them by the enlightened and wise men of the nation,,
almndant cause for encouragement, and perseverance with increased zeal
and unabated determination, until the iosdtution of freemasonry shall be over-
thrown or abandoned.
Mr. Sbwabb, of New York, dubmitled the following lesolutioosy which
were read andpassed tmamnwudy
Resolved, That the committee of finance be authorized to pay over any
mphis fimdb vvhicfa may temain in ihdr haadsi after defraying the expeiaes
Digitized by Google
MR. WIKT S LETTEA. 63
of this Convention, to the publishing committte, to be accounted for by them
in their publications. <
*
Regofvedf That the thanks of this Conveotioo be returned to tbe natkm^
corresponding comfnittee, for the faithful discbarge of their duties during the
past year, and that this Convention entertain a profound conviction that ihe
results of their kbots must be eminently beneficial to the cause of antt>
masonry.
The' report of the nadonftl eoirespaiiding committee ma called up and
Oirdered to oe printed.
Adjourned to eight o'clock this evening
Eight o'clock.
Met, pursuant to adjournment.
Mr. RuTHERFLTRD, from tho Committee appointed to wait upon Mr. Wirt,
and inform him of his nomination, further reported, tl)at they had received
for answer a written communication, which was submitted, and read by the
secretary.
MR: WIRT'S. LETTER.
" Gentlemen ^^Theunanimous resolutioii of tfae * National Anii-masonic
Convention* assembled at this place, nominating roe as their candidate for
the office of president of Ihe United States,, at the ensuing election, is an
honor very grateful to me, ns a proof of confidence from so respectable a
body, and quite as unexpected as it is grateful. My pursuits, habits, and incli-
nations, have removed me so far from the political excitements and'conteo'
tions of the day, and I know so well, from a close personal observation of
twelve years, how litde of attraction there is in the oliice of president of the
United States, to any man who values his own peace, that it was as far re-
moved from my wishes as my expectations, that it would occur to any por-
tion of my fellow citizens to present my name to the consideration of my
countiymen for that office. Not onlj have f never sought tbe office, but
I have, long since, looked at it with far more of dread than of desire, being
fully aware of its fearful responsibilities, and of the fact, demonstrated by
past experience, that no degree of purity and intelligence that can be
exerted in the discharge of iti duties, can protect its possessor from mis-
representation and aspersion.
" Give me leave to add, gentlemen, that one of the last quarters from
which I could have anticipated such an honor, is the Anti-masonic Con-
vention ;
because, adopting (ton hastily, I am happy to find) the current
rumors of the day, I had supfj^ist d that the very principle of vour union
was a war of indiscriminate proscription against all persons tliroughout tlje
United Slates, wlio had ever borne the name of Mason ; that you would
put in nomination no person who had ever. been a mason himself, and who
would not, moreover, pledge himself to become a party to such a war of
indiscrimmate extermination, and wield the appointing , power of the office
mider jour dictadon ; who would nott in* short, become the president of
.
J i^ .d by Google
64 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
your party, instead of being the president of the United States. I am
happy to find tliat this is an error ; for I should have been grieved for my
country, to see the rise of any party tliat should affect to seize upon the
reins of government, and, through the agency of an automaton president,
to direct its powers to the vindictive purposes of party proscription and
persecution ; and J should be grieved for myself, to learn tliat tliere had
been any thing in my life and charticter that could mark me out as a fit
instrument for the execution of such a purpose. 1 am relieved from both
these apprehensions by learning, since your assemblage here, that you have
no other object in view than, in effect, to assert the supremacy of the laws
of the land ; that you seek to disturb no portion of the peaceable and
virtuous citizens of our country in tlie enjoyment of tliose social rights
which are secured to them by their constitution and laws ; but, on the con-
trary, that the principle which has embodied you, is one of self-defence,
in the enjoyment of those rights ; that, having become convinced by the
disclosures made under oath, by numerous and respectable witnesses, in
the trials which have been agitating tlie state of New York, for several
years, and by your investigations consequent on those disclosures, that the
Masonic Society has become a tremendous political engine, witli the power
and the disposition to set the law s of the land at defiance, to mark out and
sacrifice its victims at pleasure, and with impunity, and to silence all
individual opposition by the mysterious terrors which it diffuses throughout
the comnmnity, you Imve come to the determination to root out tliis noxious
institution, if you can, hy the use of all the peaceable^ legal, and comiitu-
tlonal means in your poivcr ; that the most effective means of tliis character », t
which has presented itself to you, is by tlie exercise of your elective
franchise ;
that, deeming every man unfit for office, who, in accordance
with the principles established on tlie trials in New York, considers his
masonic oatlis and obligations as superior to his obligations to the constitu-
tion and laws of his country, you will support no man for any office who
holds tliat principle or adheres to the society whose principle it is ; that
you consider a man's allegiance to his country his highest earthly obliga-
tion ; and that no man is fit to be trusted with one of the oflJices of the coun-
try, who will permit a doubt to rest on the fact of his allegiance. These
I understand to be your principles, and I see nothing in them which does
not commend them to every man whose mind and heart are sound : for
there can be no question among reasonable men, tliat in a free government
like ours, the constitution and laws are our only sovereign j that the peace,
order, prosperity and happiness of our people depend on the steady,
faitJiful, and effectual administration of our laws ; that any secret society,
which, by the force of mysterious oaths and obligations, and by the extent
of its combination, seeks to disturb the action of those laws, to set them at
defiance, to ride over and control tliem, to usurp the government, to hold
the lives, peace, and happiness of society at their mercy, and to establish
a reign of terror over the initiated and uninitiated, is a political monster,
as fearful as the Invisilile Tribunal of Germany, <jr the Inqimiiion of
Spain, and ought to be extirpated, witliout delay, by tlie use of all the
peaceable means which the constitution and laws of our country furnish. I
, Google
ML WIRT'S LETT£R. 65
am further sure that, in our country, it is hut necessary to establish the fiict
of the existence of such a society to insure its annihilation.
" But, gentlemen, although your resolution asks of me no pledges or prom-
ises, vet the name and style of the Convention from which it proceeds,
the Anti-masonic Convention^ may be considered, both by yourselves and
our fellow citizens at large, as necessarily involving, by iioplication, such
promises and pledges : and it Is therefore proper that I shonld be perfectly
open' and candid with you, that there may be no misapprehension between
UBf and that yoliinay bo able to dbembarrass yourselves at once, by cbang>
ing your nomination, if yoa find that yoa have acted under mistake in pass-
ing this resolution.
You must understandi then, if you are not already apprised of ft, that,
in very eariy life, I was myself initiated into the mysteries of freemasonry.
I have been told by masons, that my eyes were never opened, because I
never took the master's degree ; but my curiosity never led me thus far—
and, although I soon discontinued my attendance on lodges (not having
enterqd one, even from curiosity, for more than thirty years, I believe), it
proceeded from no suspicion on my part that there was any thing criminal
in the institution, or any thing that placed its members, in tlie slightest
degree, in collision with their allegiance to their country and its laws.* On
the contrary,, having been, belbre niy initiation, assured by a gentleman lA
whom I had inmlicit confidence, that there was nothing in the engagement
which codd afreet either my religion or politics (which 1 considered to
eompreiieDdipg the whole range of my duties, civil and jreligious, and at
eixtending not to the first degree only, but to the whole masonic order) $
and being further informed that many of the most illustrious men of
Virginia, with General Washington at their head, belonged to that order,
and hiul taken the deirree of master : I did not believe that there could be
any thing in the institution at war with their duties rs patriots, men and
Christians ; nor is it yet possible for me to believe that they could have
understood the engagement as involv'ng any such criminal obligations. I
have, thenceforward, continually regarded masonry as nothing more than a
social and charitable club, (Jesigned for the promotion of good feeline amon|
its members, and for the pecuniary relief of their indigent brethren. I
have, indeed; thought very little' about it for thirty years. It had dropped*
fix>m my mind so completely, that I do not believe I dbould have been able
to eain admittance intor any lodge at all strict in their examinations, where
r sbcHild have had to depend alone on my memory; and so little con-
sequence did I attach to it,> tliat whenever masonry has been occasionally
introduced as a subject of conversation, I have felt more disposed to smile
than to frown. Thinking thus of it, nothing has more surprised me than to
see it blown into consequence in the Northern and Eastern States as a
political engine, and the whole community excited against it as an affair
of serious importance. I had heard, indeed, the general rumor tliat
Morgan had been kidnapped, and very probably murdered, by masons, for
divulging their secrets : but I supposed it to be the act of a few ignorant
and ferocious desperadoes, moved by their own impulse singly, without
the sanction or knowledge of dieir lodges : and thus ttsnku^, I have
repeatedly and continually, both in conversation and letters of mendship,'
Digitized by Google
C6 SECOND NATIONAL ANT|-MASONIC CONVENTION.
spoken of Masonry and Anti-masonry as a fitter subject for farce than trage-
dy, and have been grieved at seeing some of my friends involved in what
appeared to me such a wild and bitter and unjust persecution against so
harmless an institution as freemasonry. I have thought, and repeatedly
said, that I considered masonry as having no more to do with politics than
any one of tiie numerous clubs so humorously celebrated in the Spectator ;
and that with regard to the crime in Morgan's case, it was quite as unjust
to charge that on masonry, as it would be to charge the private delinquen-
cies of some professing Christians on Christianity itself.—Thus 1 have
thought, and thus I have continually spoken and written in my private let-
ters to several of my friends. It w^as not until the period of your assem-
bling here, that, on tlie occasion of a friendly visit from one of your mem-
bers, and my taking the liberty to rally him on the excessive, zeal which
had been excited on an occasion so inadequate, that he placed before me
a detail of some of the proceedings on tlie trials of the conspirators against
Morgan ;
when, for the first time, I saw the masonic oaths as established
by the testimony both of adhering and seceding masons on the trials in
New York. 1 observed that, in one of them (called the royal arch), the
candidate swears, among other things, that he will aid and assist a compan-
ion royal arch mason in distress, and espouse his cause so far as to extri-
cate him from the same, if in his power, tv'itthcr he be right or u rovg, and
that he will conceal the secrets of a companion royal arch mason given
him in charge as such, munler and treason not excepted ; and in other oaths,
in still higher degrees, I also observe that the candidate binds himself to
avenge the violated secrets of the lodge by the infliction of death on the
offender, and to revenge the wrongs of a brother to tlie utmost extremity
and the whole mixed up with the most horrible imprecations and blasj[.he-
mous mockeries of the rites and tenets of the Christian religion.
"In the details of th^ trials in the case of Morgan, it became manifest that
these oaths are not considered by those who impose and take them as mere
idle and unmeaning words ; but that they are viewed as solemn obligations which
are to be practically enforced, and which, in the case of Morgan, there is too
much reason to believe, were tragically enforced. *
According to the reports
of the details of those trials, as given at some of your former meetings, and
given at great length at your meetings in this city (at one of which, in com-
mon with other citizens, 1 was present), those oaths are understood literally,
and literally enforced ;
and, according to the exhibition of the evidence made
in those reports, the conspiracy against Morgan was not, as has been com-
monly supposed, the act of a few ignorant men, alone; but was engendered
in the lodges themselves, enforced under their direction, and supported at
tlieir expense ; the conspiracy embracing within its sweep men of all degrees,
men of the learned prof(?ssions, farmers and mechanics; with too much
reason to believe that the secret energy of the masonic spirit had entered and
polluted evpn the temple of justice; and with .the most demonstrative proof
that the persons who had entered into these unhallowed oaths, considered
their p'leg^iance to the lodges as of higher obligation than their allegiance to
the laws of their country. If this be masonry, as, according to diis uncon-
tradicted evidence, it seems to be, I have no hesitation in saying, that I con
fcider at war with the fundamental principles of the social compact, as
Digitized by Google
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. ^
treason a!rain«;t society, and a wicked conspiracy against the laws of God and
man, whicb ought to be put down.
*'
But, gentlemen, lliib ua^ not, and could iioL be, masonry as understood
by Washington. The thing is imoossible. The suspicion would be parri-
cide. Not can I believe that, in toe quarter oftbe ljybh with wbiefa 1 am .
beat acquainted, intelligent men, of high and iibaoiable character, if they have
been drawn in to ^ake these shockingand impious oaths, can consider them
as paramount to theii duties iq their ubd and their country. It is trut ,
tliatj
after the practical exhibition of masonry which we have had in New York,
no man oi common prudence can sleep over these discoveries, and will take
care in every case of donbt to inquire. But both ji i^tirc nnd prndnnrc de-
mand di'^rrirnination ; for ihr powers of n presideiil oljlHiI not, in toy opinion,
to be prosiiiiitod to the purpose of a blind and unjust piu^ciijiuon, involving
innocence aud honor with sruilt and treason ; and no man is woi thy of a iioia-
iiiuliuu lo Uiis high office, m vviio^e judgment and paLnuiiiincoii(idence cannot
be placed to make the proper distinction between them. In die view of all
honorable men, he would deservedly become an object of disgust, if he could
stoop to commit himself by any pledges, in a case like this, as the price of
his nomination.
If, with these i^ews of my opmions, it is the pleasure of your Conven-
tion to change the nomination, I can assure you v£iy sincerely that I shaM
xenre from it with far morr ]ileasure than I should accept it. If, cm the con«»
trary, it be thpir choice to alndo bv it, T Ii uo only to ndd that, in a govern-
ment like ours, i cons'Ider no citizen :it lilieriy to rejeci a nomination by so
respeciable n body, upon |>eiSonaI considerauons. • ^
" Be ilie iinal determination of your Conventioa what it mav, I shall ever
retain a grateful sense of the honoi tonlerred on me by this liuaunaiiun, and
1 beg the Anti-masonic Convention to accept the assurance of my respect for
them and their cause. I do not address them as a party, because: I under-
stand the principles of their union to be, io astert the tt^nmacy oftiti iem i
which { trust is, and ever will be, the sacred and immutable principfe of our
common country.
^BaUmwe, Sept. 88, 1831. W«, Wa*.T -
, ' I. • ...
On motibn of Mr. Dennt, of Pennsylvania^
jRe#o2oe<f, unammously. That the answer the Hon. WnxiAitr Wirt io
the resolution of this Convention, nominating him as a candidate for the pres-
idency, be entered on the minutes of this Convention as part of its proceed-
ings, and that this Convention recommend to their fellow citizens throughout
the United States, a cordial and vigorous support of Mr. Wirt, at the next
election, as the anti-masonic candidate for the oiiice of president of the
United States. *
'
Mr. Bailey, from the committee appointed to wait upon J\Ir. Ellmakeb,
and mform him of his nomination, fuitfaer reported, that ihey had received
in reply a written coromuiucatioa» which was safamitted, and read by the
aecietary.
Digitized by Google
(1$ 8BC0MD NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVEXATION.
BIB* m^IMAXXBfB IiSTTSR. \ >
Mu9T$, John BaHey, John.S, Schriver and Sannud F. Lymm*
m
* *f Gentlemen : —I acknowledge, with much sttisfaction, the fneodly man-
ner m which you have communicated ihe two resolutions this day adopted
by the National Anti-masonic Convention : one, nominating me as the anti-
' masonic candidate for the office of vice president of the United States at the
next election ; the other, appomting you a connmittee to communicate the
preceding resolutkm to me, and to request my acceptance of the nomi-
nation.
*'
I know well my humble pretensions to be a candidate for thiit bigh
oftice. But a zealous and firm attachment to the cause of anti-masonry,
will not permit a refusal of the nomiaation. I, therefore, accept it
*• With great respect,
"1 aia, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
AkOS ELLMAXXlt.^
^ Bakm&re, S^tember 38, 1831."
On motion of Mr. Ward, of New York,
Resolved, That the answer of Hon. Amos Ellmaker to the resoltition of
this Conveniioii nuuiiiiaiiiig Iiim as a candidate for the vice piesicieiic) , be
entered on the minutes of this Convention, as part of its proceedings and
^at,thi$ Cooventbn recommend to their fellow citizens throughout the
United Staties, a cordial and vigorous suppwt of Mr* Ellmakeb, at the next
election , as the antt-masonic candidate for the oftce of lace ^sident of the
United Stales.
Mr. Holly, fiom the committee appomted to prepare an address to the
people of the United States, made a report, which was read, and, on motion
otMr. Stovsr, of Pennsylvania, was unanimmufy adopted.
OS* THE 2f AXIOJDIAI< AlfTf-MASONi;C COKYfiNTIOK.
^ To the People of the Umied Statef.
" Fellow Citizens :— large and growing political part}% through us,
respectfully addresses von. NTimerous bodies of enlightened and honest
freemen, in states coiuaining more than half the electors of our Union, have
ojuHnly and fairly dth eated us to represent them, in the performance of
duues, wliich cannoi fail lo affjct your essential rights. And believing that
your rights are inseparably blended with theirs, we seek most eiimestly
so to (jerform these duties, as to produce effects equally ancl extensively.
bene6cial upon the rights of all. These duties consist in nominating citi-
sens to be supported as candidates for the offices of president, and. vice
president of tlie Unite^ States, at the next electbn, and in setting forth the
grounds on which you are invited to sustain the nomination.
The concurrence of millions of men, in any act of deliberation or de-
cision, for objects in which they have a common interest, presents to the -
wmd a magmficent and escituoig spectacle. If the men be intelligentt pati-
Digitized by Google
ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE. 69
riotip, and free, and the object be that of appointing die most suitable of
their number, to guard die rights, and advance die prosperity, of the na-
tion, which diey constitute, human life can rarely exhibit a spectacle of equal
interest and sublimity. Scarcely any approach towards such an exhibiuon
has ever been witnessed in any country but ours. Let it be our ambi-
tion, so to continue and improve the exliibition, in all its stated recurrences,
as shall more and more commend it to the approbation and esteem of the
great brotherhood of communities, to which we belong, and most effectu-
ally tend to die establishment and support of free principles, in every com-
munity of our fellow men. >
:
' " In selecting candidates for the highest offices in the gift of the people,
It is essential to consider the peculiar frame and objects of our govern-
ment ; the personal qualifications of the candidates ; the principles which
should govern their administration ; the sources of danger to diese priiici-
P^®^ » ^^^^ means of removing that danger. On each of these consid-
erations, we wish to offer our opinions with Uie ingenuousness, fulness, and
earnestness which become freemen, in addressing their equals and brethren,
upon subjects involving their dearest hopes, and most imperative duties.
" Government has always been a business of the highest importance. In
every form it has exercised a mighty influence upon the individual and col-
lective condition of its subjects. In most countries it has generally been
the prey of crafty and lortunate violence ; and wielded lor parual and
selfish objects. With such an origin, and such objects, it was impossible
that it should not be the parent of innumerable mischiefs. But bad as it
has been, it has not been without its advantages ; and these have greatly
outweighed its evils. Without government, there could have been no ex-
tensive associations among men. Their conflicting interests apd passions
would have produced universal collisions, so fierce and frequent, as to have
prevented much increase ; and the human race would have existed, at this
day, only in the condition of a few scattered, ignorant, indigent, feeble, fe-
rocious, and insecure families. To raise them above ibis condition, govern-
ment was absolutely indispensable.
** The great use of government is to secure rights—all the rights of those
who unite in its formation. These are comprehended in life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness. To the security of these, order is essential. Or-
der cannot be maintained witliout a common and definitive arbiter of the
differences that may arise between the individuals composing a nation, and
a power to protect tlie whole against external aggression. Such an arbiter
and power is government ;
which, to b^ perfect, should be just, intelligent,
free from the bias of self-interest, and effective, as to all the objects for
which it is constituted. But such a government never existed ;
and, so
long as men are ignorant, selfish, and passionate, never will exist among
tliem. The nearest possible approximauon to such a government is a re-
public. »
" A republic acknowledges die rights of all, and seeks to avail itself of
the wisdom and power of all, to promote their common welfare. Its theory
b perfect. It is founded upon the proper basis, pursues the proper end,
and employs the proper means. And by the principles of elective repre-
sentation and accountability, it may be so extended as ultimately to corn-
Digitized by Google
70 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASOiJilC CONVENTIOsN.
bine all nations—^if not mto one family—^into a friendly association of several
peaceful, prosperous and numenMis families. If right, duty, wisdom, and
power can contribute to the real exaltation and happiness of man ; and -if
tovernment can combine and apply them most comprehensively and bene-
daily to the rmlatbn of human conduct, then repoblicanism ofkn a
more migestic and reverend image of substantial glory than can otherwise
result from the labors^ and sufferings, and virtues of our race. It is a prac-
tical scheme of universal benevolence, sure to be approved, embraced, and
sustained, by all men, in proportion to the just prevalence, in their minds,
of intelligence, truth, and philanthropy. Such a government is the one
under which it is onr privilege to live.
" Wheie it is the distinctive object of government to bring the public wis-
dom to the direction of the public will, for the public good ; and the peo-
ple u[iderstand their rights, their duties, and their bterests, a designation
to fill the iiigii places of its administration, by a majority of their free voices,
is the most precious reward, of eardily origin, which can be bestowed upon
intellectual and moral merit ; and imposes an accountabihty exactly propor-
tioned to its value. No step should be taken towards its bestowmem, with-
out a lively and generous solicitude, r V. *
" The qualities, which should be possessed by every president of the
United States^ are the most estimable^that can adorn a man. He should
be industrious. No great end of human life can be obtained without great
effort. Every thing which is good in the character and condition of man
is progressive, and cannot be otlierwise. Knowledge, virtue, safety, happi-
ness, are attainment?, not gilts, nor inheritances. They arc the slowly ma-
turing, but precious, Iruits of exertion ; not the capricious or unsought houn-
ties of earOi or heaven. Free government, the most coinplicated and
expansive good that can spring from human tilibits, has not been acquired,
and cannot be preserved, without perpetual and strenuous exertion. The
chief magistrate of this government must, therefore, be wtlKng and accus-
tomed to labor, honest- labor is always honorable. In the president of
the United States, it>is most honorable, because his labor is consecrated to
the noblest purposes that can be advanced by human means, and requires
the employment of the highest qiialities that can animate the soul. '
-
*^ He should be intelligent. The objects and provimons of our govern-
ment, in all its relations both foreign and domestic ; the sources of its power,
and the means of its support; the history of its ori<rin, its establishment,
its trials, and its fruits, are topics of inquiry and meditation more pregnant
with valuable instruction to the genuine friends of man, timn all others sup-
plied by civil records. They are themes of enlightened examination, dis-
cussion, and adiniraiion, every where. And the most respectable naiiong
of the old world are now agonizing to disabuse themselves of their ancient,
bm^Aensome, foid unequal insdtutiOQS, for the sake of fdlowing our exam-
ple. To understand these topics will well repay the eSBans it may cost
to every mbd. It is an essential part of the education of every ilreeman.
Ill him who is eh^sted with the most responsible application of all the
knowledge they unfold, to the holy purposes of rightnil order and social
advancement, it is equsdly the dictate of duty, self-respect, and honorable
mnbitioD, to mderstand them £uiuiiarly, and in all their details. Such u&-
Oigitized by
APDRESS TO THE PEOPLE. 71
derstanding can be obtained only by diligent study, deep reflection, candid
observation, wise intercourse, and practical experience.
• " He should be honest. His conduct should be a perfect exemplification
of the solemn claims of truth and right, in all his communications and in-
fluences, and of the strictest fidelity to the prescribed duties of his office.
His manners should be plain, direct, and cordial, both in his official and
private relations—the transcript of an upright, pure and benevolent mind, .
and suitable to aid in the accomplishment of all his grave and exalted func-
tions. The greatest crime which can be committed against freemen is the
usurpation of power. It should be deemed the unpardonable sin of re-
publics. It has been the unfathomable deep in which all the footsteps of '
liberty, in other countries, have been swallowed up, in all ancient and mod-
ern times. To it, the highest place of delegated power affords both the
most temptation, and the most probable means of success. Whoever fills
that place shouldf therefore, be strong in honesty. If he yields to the tempta-
tion, and seeks to employ the means entrusted to him only for the benefit
of his fellow citizens, in endeavors to raise himself upon their ruin, he
should be branded Hke another Cain. His memory should be held in the
most intense and immortal detestation.
" He should be independent, following his own convictions of right, and
not shrinking from any of his appropriate responsibilities. He should ba
swayed by no private and illegitimate influences, and never seek to cast
his burthens upon others. In every act of the power, lawfully assigned him,
he should stand forth as the personal agent of the public will, and answer-
able to all its just demands.
He should be vigilant. Our freedom, though well secured, may be in-
vaded. In all other countries, freedom has been successfully invaded.
Ours is too valuable, and has been too dearly purchased, to omit any means
of its preservation. Without eternal vigilance in all its sentinels no means
will be sufficient. With an awakened eye to every part of his charge, he
who occupies the highest watch-tower of the nation should carefully mark
all the indications of good or evil which may affect it, and weigh tliem well,
the better to secure the objects of his care.
" He should be wise in judgment. To this end, patient examination,
cool deliberation, and impartial affections are requisite. Accordingly, he
should be in the customary use of lliem. His judgment is the great hinge
of good or evil to millions. It should not, therefore, be hasty, wavering, or
weak ; but well informed, faithful, and firm.
" He should be prudent. This quality refers more to action than to spec-
ulation, but includes both ; and consists in a sagacious foresight of evils, and
an effective application of means to avoid them, as well as in an enlightened
anticipation of benefits, and adequate efforts to secure them. It is an ex-
alted merit ; not often brilliant in its means, because they are such as com-
mon sense enjoins, and therefore excite no wonder ; but blessed in its ef-
fects, because, under all circumstances, it leads to the utmost attainable good.
Prudence obtains less praise than it deserves, because it is often confounded
with the partial and sordid purpose, to which it may be made subservient.
^ " He should be disinterested and patriotic. Yielding himself to the
wishes of his fellow citizens for the momentous task of their leading civil
J
Google
72 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
service, he should, in all its specifications and labors, lose himself in thera.
Their rights, their safety, their happiness, should be his undeviating aim.
Regarding them as his political bretliren and principals, he will be intent
upon promoting their interests. In this way he will secure his own. And
grateful to them for his elevation to the noblest and widest sphere of benef-
icent exertion to which wisdom and virtue can aspire in this world, he will
labor, unceasingly, for the good of his country. Widi a country distinguished
above all others for its exemption from time-honored abuses, either civil,
ecclesiastical, or military—for the self-directing and self-relying habits of its
people—for its ingenuity and enterprise in all the walks of productive in-
dustry—for its force and steadiness of resolve in pursuit of practical utility
—for its just distribution of social respect and honor—for its high and equal
valuation of individual rights—for its anxiety and ability to disseminate use-
ful knowledge among all its children—for the spirit of improvement incor-
porated in its frame of government, exciting to the discovwy, and inviting
to the adoption, of every new and useful principle and method of opera-
tion—for its unparalleled advancement in wealth, numbers, and strength—for
its facilities of enlargement over half a continent, and of influence over all
the world—for the adaptation of its employments, purposes, and institutions
to the rights of man —for its large and increasing enjoyment of the esteem
and favor of nations —and for its glorious hopes of perpetuity, it would be
as natural as it would be necessary that he should be a patriot. It would
seem impossible for him to be otherwise. Penetrated with a just sense of
tlie dignity and importance of his great trust, he should endeavor to dis-
charge it with parental and equal regard to every section and member of
tlie national family.
" What should be the principles of his administration ? Such certainly
as are found in tlie fundamental doctrines of the republic, and are best
calculated to harmonize order and right. As drawn from our constitutions,
and illustrated by the writings and examples of our sages, they are chiefly
the following ;
equal and exact justice to all men of whatever state, con-
dition, or persuasion, religious or political; peace, commerce and honest
friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none ; the support of
the state governments in all their rights, as the most competent administra-
tions for our domestic concerns, and the surest bulwark against anti-repub-
hcan tendencies ; the preservation of the general government in its whole
constitutional vigor, as the sheet anchor of our peace at home and safety
abroad ; a sacred regard to the principles and spirit of our Union, which
make us one people, and have been die essential means of our national
power, honor, prosperity and freedom, as much as they were of the suc-
cessful assertion of our national independence ; acquiescence in the decis-
ions of the majority, even if deemed wrongful, till they can be lawfully
changed, by the influence of intelligence and patriotism ; such acquiescence
being the vital principle of republics, from which there is no appeal but to
force, the vital principle and immediate parent of despotism ; a well organ-
ized militia, our best reliance in peace, and for the first moments of war, till
regulars may reUeve them ; the supremacy of the civil over the military au-
tliority ;
economy in the public expense, that labor may be lightly burdiened
the honest payment of our debts and careful preservation of the public
ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE. 73
ftith ; encouragement of the great interests of agriculture, cominierce and
manulaciures, that every braric h of productive industry may be pioiitable,
protected and respected ; the diffusion of information, by the feasonable
patronage of elementary schools, and scleDtific establisliments» as well as by
the publicity of all governiftental transactions, with those temporaiy excep*
lions only, which are dictated by prudence, in relatton to foreign Intercourse,
and the mitiatory steps in prosecuting crime; the arraignment of all abuses
at the bar of the public reason; the strict accountability of place-menvand
frequent rotation in office ; the unbroken dominion of tiie laws over all men,
whether private citizens, public officers, or associations of both ; the prompt
and lawful application of all the necessary powers of government to secure
the liberty and life of any citizen from criminal invasion, when it is known
to be tiireatened, and the most strenuous and persevering exertion, on all
occasions, to disclose and bring to legal punishment the perpetrators of
crime ; for liberty has no existence, but in name, where the government is
unwilling or unable to wiiiisrand the enterprises of faction and crime,
whether proceeding in secret or in public, to confine each member of the
society, and association of members, within the limits prescribed by the
<4awB, and to mamtain all in the secure and tranquil enjoyment of the rights
of person and property. There are yet other rights of the people of which
his admmistration should manifest a zealous care ; that of political equality,
implying general sufirage, and eligibility to office ; of the independent and
safe appl^ation of the right of voting to all cases which the people shall
•think proper, as in this way it^may become the m\\^ and safe corrective of
abuses, which must be lopped by the sword of revolution where peaceable
remedies are unproinded ; of freedom of religion, freedom of the press,
and freedom of person, under the protection of the habeas corpus ; oi trial
by juries and judges impartial in their obligations, and impartially selected ;
and of security in person, housps, papers, and eff^^cts, against unreasonable
searches and seizures. Tliese seem to ns the essential principles of our
freedom. They have been raised out of the precious mine of human rights,
by the labors of ages; and having disengaged them from tiic rubbish and
dross under which all the workings of ignorance, faction and lyranny would
keep them eternally bu ied, by the tiK>st pure-hearted, arduous, and saga-
cious e^eitions, our political fathers have combined and set them up for our
'^shelter and guidance. Let us never be unmindful of them. We can have
Aothiog of so much worth. They are the most brilliant jewels of our nation
.already rich and renowned. We cannot overvalue them. But, iintike the
siiining baubles of ostentatious and unrighteous power, they are valuable hi
their use. In that alonO are diey good ; and their most important use is
"
to be made the touchstone of the merits of those we trust.
*
"Are these principles in danger? Every candid man, who will inquire,
must think so. They were never in danger so imminent. Their foe h rich,
disciplined, and wily. He obeys no rules of civilized warfare, no resiraints
of truth, no injunctions of justice, no pleadings of humanity. He already
occupies the principal posts, heretofore relied on as the cliief defences of
our hberty ;
every where lies in wait to deceive; endeavors to poison the
springs of resistance to him 3 seduces the unwary, disloyal, and sordid, by
flattery, hicrative employment, and ofibrs of preferment ; intimiditates the
10
Digitized by Google
74 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
irresolute and weak by haughty exhibitions of bis power j and assails, from
a thousand ambuscades, and by all sorts of weapons, the most envenomed
and condemned, the tvatchfid, thoughtful, steadfast, and unconquerable
friends of free principles^ Such a foe b freemasonry.
This appears incredible to honest, unreflecting men, til) they fairly im*
derstaod the character of freemasonry, and ascertain its conduct. When-
ever they do thisj the incredibility vanishes, they join the great rally of
anti-masons, and work with one mind and untiring zeal, in all the ways of
law and honor, for its abolition. The disinclination to take up impressions
of evil against it arises, almost wholly, from the fair characters of some
men who have been connected witli it, and from the support of it by in-
terested politicians, and the presses under its eontrol.
" Honorable men have joined it in early life. Incited by luisuspected rep-
resentations of its purity and value, and by curi(jsity to explore a mystery,
they surrendered themselves to the wish of its nienihers, and offered to be
conducted into its dark chambers. Ot" these, we know, some stopped at
the threshold; some, in the first dcgi'ee ;
some, in the second j and more,
in the third. None of them knew any thing of its peculiar ceremonies,
oaths, or objects, till tHe^ had sworn to' conceal them. They hare often
praised the virtues it claimed, for they loved virtue, and hoped the claim
was just. But they never imbibed its spirit, or knowingly approved its prinr-
ciples. From the first step of their initiation, they always suspected both*
If they did not, we should have heard, from some of the ten thousand con-
scientious and patriotic seceders who have opened the door upon all its
proceedings, of fathers leading their sons to the masonic altar. Among
them all, these seceders have probably witnessed admissions into nearly every
lodge in the Union. No one has told you that he ever assisted at the in-
itiation of his own son, or knew any other father do so, in relation to his
son. Is not this a most honest, lc|[rihle, and fatal condemnation of the or-
der, derived from witnesses the most competent and credible, though un-
willing, even from the hearts of its adhering members? What! would
not a father initiate his son, the pride of his -life, the hope of his age, tlie
object of his prayers, into an association of honorable men most exclusively
designed, and most wisely adapted, to the inculcation of science, charity, re-
ligion ? How have good fathers done, who hav^e become freemasons ? Let
each one jooktiround among his acquaintances, and recall his past observa-
tion, for the an \' 1 . They have discontinued attendance upon the lodges.
They have preferred other schools of science for their children. They
have resorted to better means of impressing the love and practice of char*
ity upon their hearts. They have looked hidicr for their religion. Either
the best of fathers who have joined the lodge were anti-nia<5nns in the
bottom of their honris, knowing the institution to be a base imposture, or
they hated tijeir child rrn.
" But how have members, who were most distinH-nished for public honor
and private virtue out of the lodge, conducted in relaiion to it? I'rruiklin
is said to have replied to his brother, who asked his advice about joining
the society^ * one fool is enough in a family.' When the reputable and be-
nevolent Jeremy Gridlev was grand master of the Massachusetts masoosy
belbre.tfae jnost crimmal degrees of llie order were known in oor ooonttyi
Digitized by Google
^ ApOBESS,TO THE PEOP^. 75
he was inquired of by a yoang'frieQd. wbe^r it was worth his. while to
become a masoa ? and he answered NQ ; .with this pregnant additbo* * by
aggregation to the society a young man might acquire a little artificial sup-
port, but that he did not need it ; and there was nothing in the masonic ia-
Stitution worthy of his seeking to be associated with it.^ The inquirer, af-
terwards, by his bold and freedom-freighted thoughts, and the high bearing
of his devoted expression of them, was the most prominent agent in car-
rying; the Declaration of Independence, In the illustrious Congress of '7G,
"But Washington, and liis brotlier ofiicers of glorious memory, were
masons. True. They were admitted to three degrees. None of theiu
went higher, in the early days of our independence. Washington never
visited a lodge but once or twice afn i 1768 ; and never presided in one.
He afterwards, in elfoct, renounced ii ; and so did a large majority of the
officers before alluded to, in their voluntary determlnatiQa to extinguish the
Cincinoati Society. To' this society they were bound by stronger ties
than masonry can Offer to uncorru2>ted minds ;
by those- of a^ natural and
generous sympathy, of which the golden links were struck out aiid forged
in th0 welding fires of our revolutionary war. .
^
vThe origm of this socie^ was innocent; its objects were laudal^e;-
its laws were published ; its meetings were not secret ; it administered no
oaths; imposed no bloody penalties; liad no division into degrees; and its
members were respected and honored as the benefactors of their country;
but it introduced distinctions between its members and other citizens ; its
associates wore badges, a ribbon and eagle; it was hereditary; adtniiied
honorary' members ; and had funds for cJiarity. Thus constituted, all the
whigs of the country, in civil life, as soon as it was known to them, oj)posed
it, as eminently dangerous to liberty. It had no political objects. The
conduct of its members and the true purpose of the association were ex-
cellent. But it was liable to abuse. Political means were resorted to for
its abolition. Governors of states denounced it ; legislative bodies express-
ed their opposition to it by resolutions ; assemblies of 4»rivate citizens rep-
robated it ; the press sternly and universally rebuked it ; the. whola conn*
try was excited to .a flame against it. -
^
*
.
^ Washington soon became sensible that it might produce political ^vsb,
which the pure and strong motives in which it originated had hidden from
the' observation of its members. And he attended its first annual meeting
determined to exert all his influence for its suppression. He did so exert
4t. And the order was on the point of being annihilated by the vote of the
'
great majority o( ks members. Its complete annihilation was prevented
only by a sense of courtesy and consistency towards their foreign brother
officers, whom the members had oflieially and formally invited to join it,
before they had well considered tlie abuses of which it was susceptible,
and the pohtical tendencies which it miirht foster. They did destroy its
essential features, by resolving that the order should be no longer heredi-
tary, and that no new members should be admitted. They discontinued
wearing its badges in tliis country ; and left notliing of its existence but its
name, its meetings—>which were changed firom being annual to triennial—and
its charitable funds—^whioh were ordered to be deposited with the state legis-
latures. ^Tbaa fundamental modificatbn, widi the wdl-knowii cause m its
75 SECC«nD iSATIONAL AMi-MASO^^iC COiSVEKTION.
continuance, in tbe stuipeSt was nade to assume by its own members, ap-
peased the public; though Jeflbrson, and manjr others, expressed a de»
cided disapprobation •of its eontinuanee at all. •
^ Compare this society whh freeroasomy^ in its motives, ite origin, its de-
grading^ ( oremonies, its 'accumulation of titles, its numerous expressive
though iaotastic badges ; its exacting obedience in the lower degrees, and
irrespondble authority in the higher ; its secrecy; its^ths; its penalties;
its claims of exclusive allegiance ; its long list of degrees ; its means of pri-
vate recognition, command, and universal concert ; lis affiliatiou with mem-
bers in all foreign countries; its numbers; its boasted power; its crimes,
and the pertinacity with which it is sustained, by its adhering members;
and ii is impossible not to be convinced that it is exceedincily dangerous;
and that those who were willing to renounce the Cincinnati Society, would
be compelled, by the same, patriotic niotives which contjolled them, in that
act, if they had lived lili now, to renounce freemasonry. They would have
insisted upon its total abrogation. It must be abrogated.
The unavdidable inference drawn hj every prudent man, from observ-
ing the conduct of ^ts best members, in all pa^ time, is, that ita character
is bad. Thts< inference is greatly strengthened, by the intelligible hhits and
friendly advice of the most trust-worthy among them. It should be ripened
jnto unhesitating c6nviction, by a consideration of the secrecy which it en-
joins. Standing secrecy aheaya impliet shame and gvilU It is utterly in-
consistent with social improvement, confidence, and happiness. All the
descendants of Adam inherit his nature. While he was innocent, he was
ingenuous, communicative, without the need, or the desire, of concealment.
For the first crime he committed, even before the sentence of banishment
'from Paradise was pronounced upon liim. he sought concealment.
"But we ave not left to our own reiisonable inferences, or to hints, and
a few honest but guarded expressions, from its best members, to decide up-
on the character of freemasonry. That character has been revealed, un-
der oath, by \i6 adiiering members, and by a great band of seceders. And
how does it stand ? Infamous beyond all parallel in human annals. Its
principles are vicious, murderous, treasonable % and, so far as they prevail,
iatalhf hostile to those of our government.
in the 6rst degree, the candidate pledges himself, imder oath, and upon
forfeiture of bis lite if he does not redeem the pledge, to ever conceal and
never reveal the secrets of freemasonry, which he has then received, is
about to receive, or may diereafter be instructed in. Among the secrets
which the candidate may and must be instructed in, if he takes the second
degree, is that of his pledge of passive obedience to the laws of the lodge,
and all regular summonses sent him by a brother of that degree. If he
tnkes the third degree, among tliose secrets are pledges to fly to the relief
of a brother of that degree, when mnsonir illy required so to do, at the risk
of life, should there be n e-realer probability of saving the life of ilje broth-
er requiring, than of losuig his own ; to apprise a brother of all approach-
ing dano-er if possible ; and to conceal the secrets of a brother master
mason, when communicated to him as such, murder and ticasun only ex-
cepted, and they left at his discretion. And if he takes the royal arch
degree, among those secrets are pledges to extricate a brother of llrti
Digitized by Google
ADDKE6& TO TRiu TfiOPLE. 77
degree from danger if he can, wbetber that broifaer be r^t or wrong ; to
promote* his political preferment before &at of all others of equal quiJifi-
catbns ; and to conceal his secrets, murder and treason not excepted.
Thus is the conceaknent of crimes made a masonic duty ; and the candi-
dates expressly disclaim all equivopation, mental leservatioD, or evasion of
mind, both in the first degree, and in the last.
How do these parts of masonry affect the moral character of its mem-
bers? In the first degree, and every other, no man knows any of its obli-
gations till after he has sworn to conceal them. It is a first principle in
morals, that tliere is no accountohility without Icnowlcdge and free will.
Such ouths, tlieicfore, arc not binding, and no forms, or objects, or solem-
nities can make them so. But what is the purpose of the order in the
ceremony of imposing iliem? Can it be good? It is certainly such as
can be accomplished only by men divested of all sense of accountabilny.
The less of this sense tiie better, for all the purposes of fraud and crime ;
and the iiioie of it the better, for all the purposes of integrity and vniue.
These are truths which nobody can gainsay. All die history of piety, on
-ene hand, and of sin, on the other, asserts them.> Thiey are obvidus to
t^e 'common sense of all men. This proceeding of freemasonry is, there-
fore, obviously in hostility to good morals. It is more than that. To take
such an oath deliberately and with an intent to perfi^m it, is an attempt at
the voluntary extineuisbment of the highest rights of the soul, and a com-
plete foreclosure, of the source of every duty. It is not possible to ima-
gine a more aggravated crime. Rape, murder, treason, may be repented of,
and their perpetrators reclaimed. But to foirego the rights of knowledge
and volition, in regard to every proportion which can be offered to a
moral agent, amounts to a desperate erasure of the image of God from the
brenst. It would necessarily preclude repentance, reformation, pardon, hope
and be death, in its most unutterable horrors. It would be as much worse
than common suicide, as the value of the immortal spirit is greater, than that
of the corruptible body.
" In the degrees higher than the royal arch, the members swear to op-
pose the mterest, derange the business, and destroy the reputation, of un-
faithful brethren, through life, to prefer the interests of a companion of die
prder, and of a companion's friend, for whom he pleads, to those of any
^ere man of the world, in matters of di^rence submitted to diem ; never
^to engage in mean party strife^ nor conspivacies against the gov^inraent or
^ligion of their country, wh&reby <Acir rtpvtaiUm may sjt^er^ nor ever to
associate with dishonorable men, for a moment, EXCEPT be to secure
the interest of such person, bis family or friends, to a companion, whose
necessities require this degradation at their hands ; to follow strictly every
command of tiie illustrious knights, and grand commander,' and especial-
ly to sacrifice the traitors of masonry.
• " Have these points of masonic oblitrntion nny political bearin";? All the
fights of man are founded in his moral nature. It is the intention of free
government to secure him in the possession of these rights. \Viiatever is
hostile to good morals is, therefore,^pposed to the civil policy of freemen.
" Thh pledge snmetitDos omitted in thaiojal weh dejpwe ; and tometiiiMf ineliided
m th« master 8 de^eo.
...
Digitized by Google
78 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
We have seen large numbers of the most intelligent, wealthy, and respect-
able freemasons in New York, deliberating in their lodges and elsewhere
on the means of suppressing a written disclosure of tlieir secrets, by one
of tlieir number ; we have seen notices of a slanderous character, simulta-
neously printed, a few days before the seizure and murder of Morgan, in
newspapers a hundred miles apart, warning the public against the designs
of the author of this disclosure and especially directed to the masonic broth-
erhood ; about the same time we have seen masons set fire to a building
prepared by them with peculiar care for sudden combustion, because it was
supposed to contain this disclosure in manuscript; we have seen them em-
ploy a masonic printer, who was a stranger and an alien, to go into the of-
fice where it was printing, with the offer to aid in that work by labor and
money, for the sole purpose of steahng tlie manuscript ; we have afterwards
seen them kidnap tlie writer of it, carry him, hoodwinked and bound, widi
the greatest secrecy and caution, through a great extent of populous coun-
try, to a fort of the United States ;
unlawfully and forcibly imprison him
there ; collect together in frequent deliberation, upon the means of his final
disposition ;
communicate, while in tliis situation, with several members of
a chapter of their body, then numerously attended in tlie neighborhood ;
and resolve, unanimously, though whh painful reluctance, on the part of
some, diat their masonic obligations required tliem to murder him ; not for
any offence against the state, but for the sole cause of his attempting to
publish the secrets of the order, which he had a lawful right to do, and
which, considering their character, he was bound to do, by every consider-
ation of private morality and fidelity to his country. On the night of the
19th of September, 1826, they accordingly murdered him. To this fear-
ful consummadon none were privy, but those who had, as masons, sworn to
assist each other, right or wrong, and to conceal each other's murder and
treason. After the murder, all die precaution possible was taken for con-
cealing it ; but this not being wholly successful, and legal prosecutions be-
ing direatened, the criminals frequently met and consulted together, for their
mutual safety. The most influential among them insisted, that if called by
the legal auiJiorities of our country to testify, they, one and all, must swear
they knew nothing of tlie matter ; otherwise they would be forsworn to
masonry and might lose the life they would thus forfeit. As witnesses, as
magistrates, as sheriffs, as grand jurors, as petit jurors, as legislators, these
masons, and others with whom they were intimate, would know nothing of
it. In all their civil relations they violated their oaths and the most sacred
duties. They flew to each other's assistance, knowing their criminality.
They gave each other notice of the approaching danger of legal prosecu-
tion. They spirited away witnesses, who, they feared, would disclose too
much. They perjured themselves in court. They contumaciously refused
to answer questions decided to be legal. Tliey declined to answer, on the
ground that, if they should, they would criminate themselves in relation to
the murder. They prevented the judicial ascertainment, and punishment
of the foulest criminals. They macje common cause in behalf of tliese
criminals, against the rights of the citizen, and the laws of the land. Thous-
ands of them w^re acquainted with some of the steps of these crimes
against the state. Hundreds of them knew the leading malefactors.
ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE: 79
A good citizen cannot look on with inrliffercncc and see a fellow free-
man kidnapped and murdered. He cannot know that stirh crimes are suc-
cessfully protected, by an extensive, artful, and powerfni conspiracy, withont
bein'j; excited against it. Tiie sympathies of a patriot einbi-ace liis wliole
country. The j)oore-t man, the most defenceless woman, the weakest child
in it, cannot be assailed wiiii nnlawfid violence, withont (jnickening his pulse,
and stiffening his sinews, with indif^nation. His blood is up in every case
of high crime ; and it'keeps up against the aggressor, till the law performs
its office upon him. To the law he is willing to submit, because ne knows
it is the deliberate expression of the public wiU for the public good ; the
great shield spread, by the hands of all, over the righto of all.
Individual rip;hts are> separately considered, of immeasurable and inde-
finable worth. They partalce of the infinitude of moial existence and re-
sponsibility. - As contemplated by our government, a single individual, and
one as much as another, is an august being, entitled to inviolable reverence,
and bearing upon him the badges of a most majestic oriirln, and the stamp
of most transcendent destinations. His safety, his liberty, his life, his im-
provement, his happiness, it designs, at all times and places, faithfully to
protect, by the apj)Iication of all its dele'i:;upd means. The law is the ben-
eficial instrument of this protection, and should be appreciated, by every
refl^ctln^i; man, as ihc sacred, living:, and most venerable expression of the
national mind and will. Break this, and the nation has but one right left
which it can peaceably entorce—^the right of suffrage.
** The masonic institution is answerable for the crimes to which we have
referred. They were committed in obedience to ito prescribed and specific
oaths, and in fear of its penalties. The man-stealing and murder were for
no other than a masonic ofience. The whole array of its frightful crimes,
out of court, and in court, were no other than necessary means of earrying
into effect the obligations it has deliberately and universally exacted of its
members. All who uphold the obligations uphold the crimes. No adher-
ing mason has afforded the least wtllinii; as^i^^tance to the exposure and ]>i'n-
ishment of them. No lod2;c or chaj)ter has called the criminals to account.
Many of them are known to the public. Chesehro, and Sawyer, and Law-
son, and Bruce, and Whitney, have been convicted of the conspiracy to
kidnap, and have been condemned, and suffered infamous punishments ; and
tiie very murderers are known with moral, though not with strict judicial,
certabty. Not one of these men has been expelled. The grand lodge, or
grand chapter, of which thej were members, has the power of expulsion,
but has declined to exercise it in relation to them ; and such of them as are
still living, are, in masonic estimation, worthy members of the order.
But the fraternity have gone much further to make these crimes their own.
In 1827, the grand bdge gave one hundred dollars to one of its members,
then under public accusatibn, fifr kidnapping Morgan, and afterwards con-
victed of tha^ffi'iir-e ; and the ^;rand chapter, by its vote, plnred one thousand
dollars at the control of another of its members, ostensibly for ch;'r"!nble uses,
of which a part has been proved, in a court of justice, to have btnMi applied
for the benefit of other kidnappers; and the irustce of the charitv has never
been called to an account by the grand chapter, for any part of the sum,
tiiough la all other cases such accountabiiity is enforced by the chapter.
Digitized by Google
80 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION. .
!
*
I
The records of this last body, apparently- nbtnw to Ipbis (ransaction, have
'
beeRjprodueed in oourti and were seen to .be mutmted.
^
The Eternity have also employed and pud abl» counsel to defend the
I
cininiials.
...
•*In this i^y, while the chief magistrate of the state of New-York was, by
' proclamation, offering money, for the coovictioii of the offenders, the highest
( masonic bodies, in that state, were offering, and, in their associate capacity,
artnally paying, money to protect and support them. Can it be jii^tly thought .
surprising, then, that so few convictions have followed upon such enormous
offences, and that no more of the facts have been ascertained in legal form ?
" The rritninals, in all these atrocities, testified tlieir devotion to the institu-
tion, and by its own laws are only the more entitled to its guardian care, by
all the hazards they involved. That care has been extended to them in
every foiin of expression tending to their relief and comfort. . Besides the
exertions df dieh* brethrto ejready alluded to, adhering . masons have, at great
expense, established and circulated newspapers to vOify all who were en-
gaged in exposing the crimes, and to call mto action the entire resources, of
the fraternity, in behalf of those who committed them. These newspapers
have, with tlie most unblushing hardihood, asserted the innocence and praised
the virtues of tlie convicts, sevei-al of whom they knew to have confessed
their offences. They liave commended the most stubborn refusal in court,
to reveal the trudi, by masonic witnesses, as mar^y frvmess. Tbcy larv e,
in every form of misrepresentation, which they«couhI devise, labored to
daikr'u all knowledge of ilie facts relating to the outrages; and to blot out
the moral sense of tlie community.
*
*' Hundreds of the brethren, in different counties in the state of New York,
have published addresses, under their names, in which they have dehberately
contradK^^ed ftcts established jucficially^ by many of their adhering brethren,
^aadl^y many seceding masons ; and which, under the sanction m a lawful
oath, and subject to cross examination before the public, they would be
i. compelled to admit. Similar falsehoods have been published in an address
of af'committee of the Grand Lodge of Rhode Island—and tlie Grand Secret
**^
'i^y Errand Lodge of New York has recently issued an official letter,
Bi-whit^b he represents that body as extending its dependants, confident in its
strength, and determined to outbrave all the consequences of their detected
guilt, and tlie public indignation. Nothing could account for this universal
course of falsehood, but tlie unhappy truth, that the men who are engaged in it
have sworn, under the penalty of death, to conceal the secrets of freemasonry,
a most essential branch of which consists in tlie crimes of its members. This
course is countenanced by the president of the United States, who is a ma-
son, and who has recently appointed, as heads of the departments in the na-
tional govenuneht, a majority of distinguished masons. One of these heads
. of departments—^e postmaster-genera) tJie only one retained of the late
cabinet, has removed a large number ' of nis most competent and faithful
deputies, in New York, for the sole cause of the zeal and ||lKriotism with
which they sought to bring into just disrepute the crimes and institution of
freemasonry.
**The course of these transactions is rapidly corroding and wearing away
the very basjs of all public and private virtue in our country \ and eradicating
Digitized by Googlc
ADDRhSS TO TJ^ PEOPLB. 81
i^M wmM condlmoe, upt^ wKcb th« botites bf life, its peace, and. its
majqyamtB essentiaUjr depend. When men refuse to bear testimony i»
OQMrt, to public oflbnces, of which they imow the perpetrators, and are
praised for it-^hea they perjure themselves, and are not disgraced^—when
they are convicted of a conspiracy to kidnap a free cidiEeQ, and are applaud-
ed, as victims to the prejudices of their countrymen-—when the distinctiona
between risrlit and wrong are practically superseded, by the sv^rrmatic and
solemn injuncuons of a wealthy, intelligent, numerous and po\v( rlul society,
dilVused and sustaining itself in all the places of social influence and honor
when, in pursuance of this injunction, the laws of the land, in the solemn
places of meir judicial app^tion for the admonition and punishment of the
most flagrant ounces, are foully baffled, set aside and scomed^-^n, the
social fabric is trembling—then there can be but one alternative, that of re-
fiirm or yui^r^hen, looking beyond, but not forgetting, all the considerations
of attachment to the policy of encouraging this or |)iai branch ^ national in-
dustry—^this or tKat scheme of financial management—^this or that exposition
of the principles of our political organization—this or that ohir rt of all our
foreign and doinestic policy—the considerate friend ol liis country will govern
hiinseli prunarilv, by the obvious necessity to which he is reduced of pre-
serving for liis country the power of determining for itself upon any course
of policy, and of disengaging the heart of the body politic from the fangs of
a m^jpcer more Uood-tmrsty, remorseless and insatiable,^ than any which
has ever come to prey upon the hopes of man. \
^* There is a bearing of freemasonry, not yet embraced vin this address,'
which is replete with the most distressing apprehensions. There is located,
in Bo^on, a masonic body, denominated the African Grand Lodge, which
dates its origin before the American revolution, and derived its existence
from a Scottish duke. This body acknowledges no allegiance to any of the
associations of American masonry. Its authority is co-extensive with our
Union. It has already granted many chqyrters to African lodges. We are
airaid to intimate their location, to look in upoij their proceedings, to count,
their inmates, or to specify their resources, -^^
What are the means of removing these dangers ? The dangen' arie eaph
finied to no on^place in our countiy, and to no one department of our spdal
interests ; but extend to all places, and infect every department. Common
prudence demands, that the means should be capable of reaching them,
wherever they exist, and susceptible of a safe application, in their utmost ex-
tent. Such means wc linve ; and \vc are familiar with their use. They
corT^i t in the honest exercise of the right of suffrage, and the most patriotic
employment of (ATic'ml patronage. The evils of freemasonry operate upon
the moral and political condition of the nadon, and can be removed onl^ b^
moral and political means. It is the exalted excefleooe ofoiv poKtical insti-
tutions, that they are especially designed and adapted to secure our rights,
mil of which pertain to us as moral beings. In vodng, every elector should
always be governed hy a knowledge of his rights, and the desire of preserv-
ing them. There can be no higher political duty than this.
" But the use our ri^t of suflSuge against freemasonry is termed pro-
scription. Pro^ription cannot be imputed to a partes because it justly op-
poses what is wioi4* It is not proscription to be resolute and active in de-
Digitized by Googl
82 SECOiSD NATIONAI. AriTI-iHA30|?IC QONVENTIQN.
tectmg and denouncing opinions of which the obviobs tendeoc^r is to mbinjge
society : or to resist, by evpry lawful roieanS} the ioAuence of men who cqook
mit crimes, €uid confederate to support each other in their comnussito. . Vo
eall f!yh detection, denunciation, and resistance proscripticfiii could never
•Miafy an honest mind. It would be like sdgmatizmg, with an opprobrious
^jathet, tliose public benefactors, who' teach men, that all violations of duty
aie criminal and disreputable, and make their best exertions to discourage
them. Proscription can apply only to those who oppose and lessen the in-
fluence of their fellow citizens, because they innocently, and with good mo-
tives, think and act differently from themselves. Such proscription deserves
reprehension, because it invades the equal rights of Others, and is advei^e to
the improvement and happiness of all.
^
-
"Toe ofl^nces of freemasonry upon our individual and naticma} rights, if
^ej kiu£beei|4sixmnitted by a foreign nation, would, by the law of nations,
liave justified f^ic war to avenge them.* Shall we fall in love with
crime becaus^jibcae who commit it are near us? Shall we spare the de-
stroyer because we can subdue him peaceably? Freemasonry can be
destroyed by the votes of freemen, and by nothing else. All who are truly
*
opposed to it will always vole asainst it. And they deceive nobody but
themselves, who profess opposition to it, and yet dare not express that oppo-
sition by their vote. ^
"^^v
No good reason has been rendered, or can be rendered, why a fr^nnoi
^ who is opposed to freemasonry should not vote ag^dnst it. The application
of the rights of sofiSrage against it is just, peaceable, efiective, and may be as
comprehenave as the evils which alarm us. And no other means can be
described, or imagined, which unite these characteristics. Voting 'is the
only decisive means by which public opinion can be distinntly ascertained
upon the subject. And since many persons not initiated into the society,
openly connect themselves with its fortunes, and make every exertion in their
power to sustain it, by their vo^s, we cannot safely, if we would, betake
ourselves to any other resort. but the ballot boxes for its destruction. These
persoiis.aflfect to consider themselves «ts entided to the prake. of all candid
tnd unexcited minds, by the course which they adopt ; and profess to be
neither masons nor UDti-masoos ; claiming the respect of the tiommunity for
their indifference to its rights and welfare. If it had not been for the sup-
port of the order, by interested and profligate politicians, who were not mem-
bers, the forfeiture of public confidence, jusdy incurred by its crimes, would
have been so carried home to the minds of its most worthy members, as long
ago to have induced its entire dissolution. It is an undoubted fact, that the
men who arc neither niosons nor anti-masons are answerable for the contin-
uance of the order. They have kept it from sinking into annihilation by its
sins, and are thus equally 'censinable with its members. No association of
men, however impudent and hardened, can withstand,- ibr years, the mdig- /
naM,weU founded, universal rebuke of dieir fellow (^zens. So treated^ the
worst members would be driven from the face of the sun, and fican public
observation, into the fastnesses and caves of the earthy to take upon them-
selves the skulking habits, along with the flagitious putposMy ctf felons; and
the best would be compelled to abandon it.
It is attempted to make aminaiasonry odious, becauae it is political. But
Digitized by Googl
ADDEEaSTOTHBrMH* 8S
fbese attmpts must recoil tnoo those with whom they originate. Nontt but
tyrants cu think tlie use oT political means degrading. And there seems
to be peculiar effrontery required to impeach it, in a country where every
tiling most memorable in its history h^^^ l)een inseparably connected with
political movement, and every thing most animating in ifs prospects is de-
pendent upon political action and supervision. The exertions ofour fatiiers,
to establiali our independence, were political exertions. Even the revolu-
tionary war, and the war of 1812, were waged for political objects. The
constitutions, by which our civil and lefigjous rights are secured, are poh'tieal
constitutions. And this independence, these constitutions and rights, can
be preserved and perpetuaftd only by political means.
" Voting for our public servants is the highest exercise of sovereign power
known in our land. It is the paramount, distinctive privilege of freemen. la
countries where only a small minority of the people are authorized to vote,
if oppressive measures are adopted by their rulers, they must either submit
or fight. In countries wiiere all the ciiizens are authorized to vote, if they
are oppressed, they can throw off the oppression by their voles. And if the
frowns of power, or tiie calumnies of malefactors, have force to dissuade
them from using iheir votes to throw it off, they are fit for slaves, and can
be aeHf slaves. The highest functionaries of the general and state govern-
ments are amenable to the people for the proper discharge of their duties.
But a fieeman, when he .votes for a candidate, exercises the right of select-
ing, among those who are eligible, subject to no authority under heaven.
For his chcMce he is accountable only to his conscience and his God. And
why should he not, in the most sovereig;n act he can perform, do himself
the great justice of y;iviug expression to the honest conviction of his '^oiil ?
If, having the will, he cannot do it, he is a slave. If, having the power, he
will not do it, he is corrupt.
" An enlightened exercise of the right of suffrage is the constitutional and
equitable mode adopted by the anti-masons to remove tlie evils they suffer,
wid produce the reforms they seek. But this mode, to be availkig, must
include a judicious selection oi candidates. After dQigent inquiry and ma-
ture deliberation, we have selected, and now nominate, for your support, as
a candidate for the office of president of the United States, at the next
election,
WILLIAM WIRT,
of Maryland; *
and for vice president,
AMOS ELLMAEER,
of Pennsylvania.
These citizens we deem eminently possessed of the qualifications before
set fortli, as most essential for the ofliceB with whicb we have associated
theur names ; and, confident of their devoted attachment to the principles of
administration contained in- this address, and their concurrence in our views
of the crimes of freemaaom^, and the necessity of their removal, by direct-
ing against them the sovere^ and firee remedy of public suffiage, and the
bestowroent of official favors, we earnestly recommend them to yoor support
Digitized by Googl
84 SECOND NATIONAL ANTI-MASPNIC CONVENTION.
*
^eir electkm would be a great step toward^he rescue of our lefiabli^ from
the odious and formidable power which eodangers it ; and we will hhor to
accomplish it, in the spirit of freemen. In this labor we invite you 10
participate. ,
" Our free principles cannot be preserved without constant vigilance, and
a continuance of the same disinterested and determined action hy which
they were established. They are the best possession of the rich, and the
only wealth of the poor. They are the common and peculiar property of
the nation, embracing all its rigiits, its virtues, and its fortunes.
** Neither the price of our liberties, nor iheir fruits, will permit them to
be regarded without emotion, by any intelligeiil mind. The^r have hem
purchased by ages of just and earnest thought, of brave and generous eSortp
of vicissitude, and su&ring, and blood. Nor have they been purchased in
vain. They have taught man to form a just estimate of his own worth, and
of that of his fellow bemgs; to \ ilue a reasonable and responsible creature not
by the place which he inny hold in an artificial and unnatural state of society,
but solely by the faculties conferred upon him by his Maker, and the intelli-
gence and virtues ot his character. And while they have abased the proud
Jrom his stilted and haughty elevaiion, tliey have brought up the poor to the
exalted standard of human rights and human hopes ; and thus opened the
way for the whole family of man " to run the great career of justice." We
have set out first in this career. Let us remove every impediment which
would obstruct our progress in it, and, by the attractions of our Success,
invite all nations to embrace it. If we are true to ourselves, our institutions,
our fa til era, and our posterity, this is tp be our glorious destiny. The influ*
ence .of our example is already great. In our foreign conflicts and negoda-
tions, our vijor, prudence and wisdom, have'tnndp us respected and illustri-
ous. Let not these qualities be wantine: in their proper domestic applica-
tions, that the value of our example may ho. onhanred, and its influence
increased. Providence has manifestly casi upon us ilie iiii^li responsibility
of determining the most interesting problem of social life, that of man's ca-
pacity for self government If we suppress all unsocial conspiracy and
selfisni Action fiom within, as we hitherto nave done all dictation and tyranny
from without, we shall detennine it hi fevor of liberty. Such a determina-
tion the great and the good of every nation expect from us ; and they are
beginning, in the> face of ail their foes, to hutard upon it their possessions,
their honor and th?ir lives. Let us neither disappoint them, nor oetray our-
selves. A disinterested and faithful adherence to the principles which we
i inculcate, and the modes of sustaining them which we recommend,' becomes
both our cause and our responsibility ;
and, irresistibly comnieuding itself to
the adoption of the honest and the free, it will give that cause success. If
it fails, then right, duty, improvement, self government, happiness, are phan-
toms. We ^all be compelled to repudiate the memory of our immortal
flbes, and fcrego the great mhentanee they have bequeathed us. Bttt it
not fail. -Fmdom is not more the friend of man than the favcnrite of
Heaven. It is equdljr our highest glory, odv moM: sacred duty, our most
assiAed hope, and our promiseu possession*
Digitized by Googl
i JOUIINAL OF PitOCJi£l>i^G^. ^
On motkm of Mr. I&wnr, of Pennsylvmmay^
yt4ed, That the oames of the members of this CooTeotioii he attached lo
the addfess DOW presented id die people of the United States*
Levi Cbaw, Bangor, Penobscot co. !^
Hahes IiBiaN£X>, Gardiner, Kennebec isik
,J^€W Hampshiri,
Caleb Emekt^ Ionian, Grafton cO,
Vermont,
JosiAH Rising, Rupert (West), Bf^nnlngton CO.
Samtfl C, Loveland, Readins:, VVindsor co.
Chaki^es Davis, Danville, Caledonia co.
Joseph H. Brainerd, St. Alban's, Franklin co.
Edwaud D. BAikBEA^ MiUdlebury, Addison co.
Abke& Phelps» Bosfoo. «
Ahasa. Wauceb, do. \ . , m
. Benjamin V. Fbench, do,
Stephen Olites, Livnn, Essex oo^
Nahum Hardy, Waltham, Middles^i eo«
Alpheus BiGELOw, WestoH, do.
Nathan Lazell. Jr., Brid2;ewater, PljnOQOUth OO.
Joseph Morton, Milton, IVorfolk co.
John Bailey, Dorcbester, do. (P. O. MiJton.)
Micah H. Rdggles, Troy, Bristol co. (P. O. Fall Riv^.)
Hiram Manlf, Easton, do.
Gabdne& Burbank, Worcester, Worcesier co.
Epapbius Hoyt, Deer6eld, Franklin co..
Samuel B. Bablow, Granville^ Hampdea co.
William Sprague, Cranston, Providence co. (P. O. Providence.)
Cjeobge Ttmimit, Newport, Newport co.
Benjamin F. Hallett, Providence.
Walteb Paine, Jb., 4o^.
Smith Wilkinson, Pomftet, WindfauM co.
John Botnton, South Cdventry, Tofiand oa
Samuel Eellocg, Colchester, New T^giMton ^
Henry Halsey, Windsor, Hartford co.
Henry Terry, Plymouth, Litchfield co.
Sheldon C. Lbavitt, Bethlehem, do.
Digitized by Google
e6 BECOND NATIONAL ARTI'liASONIC CONVENTION.
JVWff York.
Hcimr CoTHEAL, New Toik city.
Henrt IAna Wabd, do.
William Howard, do.
Robert Towns END, Jb., do.
Samuel St. John^ do.
Samuel A. Foote, do.
Jonathan Ferris, Cortlandt, Westchester co. (P. O. Peekskill.)
Thomas S. Lockwood, Faiialiuigh, Sullivan co.
James BuBT^-Warwickf Oraoge oo.
^
* SiUAS Stone, Hadson, Columbia co.
Joseph Case, Petersburgb, Rensselaer co. (P. O. Hoondc)
Samuel M. Hopkins, Albany.
David Russell, Salern, Washington co.
Samuel Partridge, Potsdam, St. Lawrence CO.
Reuben Goodale, Watertown, Jefferson co.
John C. Morris, Butternuts, Otsego co.
Gamaliel H. Barstow, Nicholls, Tioga co.
^ James Geddes, Onondaga, Onondaga co. (P. O. Geddes.^
JoHir C. SpBNCER, Canandaigua, Ontario co. >
Evert Van Bubsv, Penn} an, Yates co.
Eliiah Miiiiilft, Attlmm, Cayuga co. ,
Prineas L. Tracy, Batavia, Genesee oo. -
' . -
PaiLo C. Fuu.ER, Geoeseo, Livingston co.
JoH!^ Birdsall, Chautauqua, Chautauqua co. (P. O. Mayville.)
George H. Boughton, l /or kport, Niagara CO.
Thomas Beekman, Peterboro', Madison co.
Samuel P. Lyman, Utica, Oneida co.
Samuel S. Seward, Warwick, Orange co. (P. O. Florida.)
James S. Wadsworth, Geneseo, Livingston co.
WiixiAM H. Sewabd, Auburn, Cayuga co.
Nicholas Deverxux, Utlca^ Ooeida co.
Mtbon Hollet,' Lyons, Wayne co.
TiLLT Ltnde, Sherburne, Chenango co.
Charles W. Ltnde, Homer, Cortlaildt co*
Timothy Childs, Rochester, Monroe co.
Noble D. Strong, Auburn, CayugR co.
WiLUAM G. VfiRTLANCK, BalistoQ Spa, Saratoga co.
New Jersey^
John Rutherforp, Lodi^ Bez^n co. (P. O. Belvillei Essex ca)
James Vanderpool, Newark, Essex co.
John H. Voorhees, Boundlnook^ Somerset ca
John Allinoi NewsilEt Essex ca
William Vanderpool» da - -
Joseph Northrop.
Hamub 1>ervt, Pittsburgh, Alleghany co»
John CiiARub, Philadelphia.
biyiiized by Google
JOURNAL 09 PROGBEDIKO0. 87
JoBN R. Jones, Philadelphia.
William Grihssaw, do.
Chables Watei9> do.*
Samuel Pabke, Lancaster*
Owen Stover, Westchester, Chester co.
George Smith (Haverford, P. O.), Delaware co.
Jamks Paul (P. O. Wlllougrove), MoDtgomery CO.
THo>f\s Elder, ILirrisburgh, Dauphin co.
Christian Pretz, AUentuvvii, Lehigh.
Samuel Leidy, Lower Saucon, Northampton co.
John Bukkows, Montoursville, Lvcoming co. •
Jacob Alter (Carli^ P. O.), dumberland co.
Jacob Cassatt, Gettysburgh, Adams co.
Charles Ogle, Somerset, Somerset CO.
Jacob B. Miller, Uniontown, Fayette < o.
Samuel McKeehan,^ West Alexandria, Washbg^m C0»
William W. Irwin, Pittsburgh, Alleghnny co.
JosEPH BuFFiNGTON, Kittaniiig;, Armstrong cO.
Robert Falconer, Warren, Warren co.
Charles Diel, Windsor, York.
SAMUEL Harvey, Germantown, Philadelphia co.
William Heisteh, New Holland, Lancaster co.
Behjaxin Riegle (Monroe P. O.), Bucks oo*
Thomas H. Burbowes, Lancaster city.
Thabdeus SxErENS, Gettysburg^, Aoaxaa oo*
Tbomas C. Hamblt, York, York co.
Ohio.
Jonathan Sloane, Ravenna, Portacre co.
Jonathan Warner, Jefferson, Ashtabula co.
Warren Jenkins, Columbus, Frankhn co.
Ziba IjTNdly, Jr., Athens, Athens co.
Nathaniel Kijujjer, Rush, Champaign co.
Robert Hanna, Cadiz, Harrison co.
'
FJiANKuir Baker, Seneca co.
James Pike, Columbus, Franklin co.
Fbedebick W. Fowleb, Milan, Huroo co.
Delaware*
Joshua V. Gibbihs, Wilmington, Newcastle co.
Maryland,
John S. Shrxver, Baltimore.
«
On motion of Mr. Phelps, of Massachusetts,
Resolvedy That this Convention recommend to the citizens of the United
States, opposed to secret societies, to assemble in Convention, at the city of
Washington, on the last Monday of December^ 1835, by their delegates, mm
*
*»
Digitized by Google
8B SECOND NATiOHAI< MTMS^aomO CONVENTION.
each state and territory, equal to their leprcsentatioo in hoth bouses of Con-
gress, for the purpose of taking into consideration such subjects as the cause
of anti-masonry may then require, provicM the N^^ooal Anti-masonic Coin-
mktee shall not otherwise advise.
Resolved, That die Natiooal Anti-masonic Confciittee, who have so faith-
fully discharged the duties of a most responsible trust, tlif past year, in the
cause of their country, be, and they are iiereby, re-appointed upon the same
principles, and with the same powers, as expressed by the first United Slates
Anti-masonic GonveDtion, at Philadelphia*
Resohed, That nnueh depends upoo a borough organisation of ea^
STATE and TERUTOiRY, of COch CITY, TOWN, township and VILLAGE, hj
acdve and yigilant oommiltees, for the purpose of diffusing infarmation on the
subject of masonry and and-masonry, over our whole country, and that the
voice of patriotism crIU upon all good ciuzens to oi;g^oize and unite them-
selves with such committees accordingly.
These tliree resolutions were adopted. *
A motion was made by Mr. Dbnnt, of Pemifiylvaiuai to add two to the
number of the natiooal committee. Motion lost.
On motion of Mr. Burt, of New York,-^
ResolvedJ mawimoushf, Hiat the thanks of this ConTentioii be tendered to
John C. Spencer, for the able and impardal manner in which, he has dis*
charged the duties of.the chair^ as president of this. Coaventioii*
The president addressed the Convention, and, on motion of Mr. Town*
8BN]>, of New York,^ «
Voted, That the presii^nt be requested to fimilsh a copy of his remarks
fat puhlicadon.*
On motion of Mr. Seward, of New york,—
Resolved, unanimouslj/, That the thanks of this Convention be returned
tb John Rotbebford, Jonathan Sloane, Tbokas Elder, and John
Bailbt, vice presidents, for the dignified, able, and judicious manner in
which diey have dischai^ged the (hities of their office.
*
On motion of Mr. Clarke, of Pennsylvania,
Besolvedy unanimously, That the thanks of this Convention ba cordially •
toidmd to the secretaries, for the able discbarge of the duties of their kb(^ •
rious and responsible ciBce,
When, on motion,
The Convention adjourned sine die*
* On being applied to for a copy, Mr. Spencer writci, from Canandaigtra, tinder data
of the 15th of October, *'I have lost the few notea I made of the heads of my farewell
addrew to the Convention, and cannot possibly recall thorn to my recollection. I cannot
consent to substitute matter that was not delivered. Under tbeie circmiMltan<lt| I aball
be unable to furnish you with the address for publication."
Digitized by
