{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__calvert___illustrations_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Illustrations Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
ILLUSTRATIONS
OF
PHRENOLOGY;
BEING A SELECTION OF ARTICLES FROM THE EDINBURG PHRENOLO
GICAL JOURNAL, AND THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE
EDINBURG PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
WITH TWENTY-SIX WOOD CUTS.
EDITED BY
GEORGE H. CALVERT.
WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY THE EDITOR.
BALTIMORE:
WILLIAM AND JOSEPH NEAL.
1832.
570
41.585
Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1832,
by William and Joseph Neal, in the Clerk's office of the Dis
trict Court of Maryland.
J. D. Toy, printer.
CONTENTS.
Preface, v
Introduction, 9
article i.
The life of Gesche Margarethe Gottfried, murderer by poison.
Compiled by Dr. F. L. Voget, her Counsel, from her own
Confessions and from Judicial Documents. Bremen, 1831. 45
article II.
Cases of Williams and Bishop, Murderers, 63
ARTICLE III.
Phrenological observations on the cerebral development of
William Burk, executed for murder at Edinburg, on 2Sth
January, 1829, and on the development of William Hare,
his accomplice, . 70
ARTICLE IV.
Spurzheim on Physiognomy, 98
ARTICLE V.
Remarks on the cerebral development of King Robert Bruce,
compared with his character as appearing from history. By
Mr. William Scott, 104
ARTICLE VI.
Case in which the natural talents and dispositions of the Rev.
Mr. M. were inferred from the development of his brain.
Communicated by Mr. Brian Doskin, 140
iv CONTENTS.
ARTICLE nr.
Report of Mr. Combe's visit to Dublin, 150
ARTICLE VIII.
Dr. Gall's visit to the prisons of Berlin and Spandau, . . . 177
ARTICLE IX.
Result of an examination, by Mr. James De Ville, of the heads
of 148 convicts on board the convict ship England, when
about to sail for New South Wales, in the spring of 1826, 188
PREFACE.
The editor of the present volume has been
induced to prepare it, from a belief that a selec
tion of articles from the Edinburg Phreno
logical Journal and the Transactions of
the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh would
be an acceptable addition to the works on Phre
nology already in the hands of the American
public. The rapid progress which the science
has made, within a few years, in Europe; the
sanction of many of the most distinguished Eu
ropean Savans to its truth and importance; the
strong advocacy lately given it in our own coun
try in the medical profession; and the increased
and growing interest with which the subject is
generally viewed among us, recommend the pre
sent as a suitable moment for issuing such a vol
ume. The conviction the editor entertains of
the vast importance of the Phrenological disco
veries, and of the beneficial results to be produ
ced by a diffusion of a knowledge of them, has
entered largely into his motive to undertake the
task.
vi PREFACE.
In making the selections, those articles have
been taken which contain evidence, derived di
rectly from nature, of the truth of the phreno
logical positions. The editor thought that a col
lection of the most striking of the practical cases,
reported in the Journal, would form a volume
which would give satisfaction to the American
Phrenologists, and at the same time, present the
subject in a strong light to those who are not at
all, or only partially, acquainted with the princi
ples and pretensions of Phrenology. The means
through which the discoveries were originally
made, and then confirmed, viz: the observation
of extreme cases in the manifestation of men
tal qualities and in the development of the brain,
and the remarking, in all such cases, of the con
nexion between the mind and the brain;—this
same means is the most efficient for teaching to
others the truths thus discovered, and of pro
ducing an effectual impression of the reality and
solidity of the basis on which the whole doctrine
rests.
The editor has prefixed an Introduction, in
which he has endeavored to explain briefly, but
distinctly, the fundamental facts and general
principles of the science. His aim in the In
troduction has been, both to facilitate the un
derstanding of the illustrations from the Jour
nal, and to give a clear idea of what Phreno
logy is.
PREFACE.
The reader is advised that the wood cuts are
not made by one common scale. Those only
are made on the same scale which are placed in
juxta-position, or between which there is a di
rect comparison.
Baltimore, Sept. 1832.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF PHRENOLOGY.
INTRODUCTION.
That the brain is the organ of the mind, has always
been among the conjectures of physiologists. Phe
nomena which ordinary observation as well as scien
tific investigation presented, inclined them to this con
clusion. With many, the impression, that the office
of this part of the human frame is to be the instru
ment of mental manifestation, was so strong, as to lead
to very positive expressions to this effect. Thus, the
celebrated Dr. Cullen, of Edinburg, states, that,
"The part of our body more immediately connected
with the mind, and therefore more especially concern
ed in every affection of the intellectual functions, is
the common origin of the nerves; which I shall, in
what follows, speak of under the appellation of the
brain." The same author says again; "we cannot
doubt that the operations of our intellect always de
pend upon certain motions taking place in the brain."
Dr. Gregory, when speaking of memory, imagina
tion, and judgment, observes, that, "although at first
sight these faculties may appear to be so purely men
tal as to have no connection with the body, yet certain
2
10 INTRODUCTION.
diseases which obstruct them prove, that a certain
state of the brain is necessary to their proper exercise,
and that the brain is the primary organ of the internal
powers." The great German physiologist, Blumbn-
■ bach, says, "that the mind is closely connected with
the brain, is demonstrated by our consciousness, and
by the mental disturbances which ensue upon affec
tions of the brain." Magendie, an eminent living
physiologist, asserts, "The brain is the material instru
ment of thought. This is proved by a multitude of
experiments and facts." Dr. Neil Arnot, in his
recent work on natural philosophy, writes as follows:
"the laws of mind which man can discover by reason,
are not laws of independent mind, but of mind
in connection with body, and influenced by the bodily
condition. It has been believed by many, that the
nature of mind separate from body, is to be at once
all-knowing and intelligent. But mind connected
with body, can only acquire knowledge slowly,
through the bodily organs of sense, and more or less
perfectly, according as these organs and the central
brain are perfect. A human being born blind and
deaf, and therefore remaining dumb, as in the noted case
of the boy Mitchell, grows up closely to resemble
an automaton; and an originally mis-shapen or defi
cient brain causes idiocy for life. Childhood, maturity,
dotage, which have such differences of bodily powers,
have corresponding differences of mental faculty: and as
no two bodies, so no two minds, in the external mani
festations, are quite alike. Fever, or a blow on the
head, will change the most gifted individual into a
maniac, causing the lips of virgin innocence to utter
the most revolting obscenity, and those of pure religion
to speak the most horrible blasphemy: and most cases
INTRODUCTION. 11
of madness and eccentricity can now be traced to a
peculiar state of the brain." A writer on the nervous
system, in the 94th number of the Edinburg Review,
says, "Almost from the first casual inspection of
animal bodies, the brain was regarded as an organ of
primary dignity, and more particularly in the human
subject—the seat of thought and feeling, the centre
of all sensation, the messenger of intellect, the presid
ing organ of the bodily frame." "All this superiority,
(of man over the brutes) all these faculties which
elevate and dignify him, this reasoning power, this
moral sense, these capacities of happiness, these high
aspiring hopes, arefelt, and enjoyed, and manifested,
by means of his superior nervous system. Its injury
weakens, its imperfection limits, its destruction (hu
manly speaking) ends them."*
The opinion, then, in regard to the relation between
the brain and the mind, at first adopted from general
reasoning, has been found to rest on visible individual
facts. From being a probable inference it has become
a certain deduction. That the nervous mass called
the brain is the organ of mind, is now an admitted
position in physiological science—admitted without
reference to the discoveries of Gall,f and by those who
* These quotations are originally made by Mr. Combe.
f The results of Gall's investigations had, however, their influ
ence in producing the conviction as to the general function ofthe
brain before his discovery of the appropriation of separate por
tions of the brain to the manifestation of individual faculties of
the mind had been admitted. In like manner, the influence of the
phrenological philosophy is perceptible in the critical and ethical
opinions of the present day. Truth, like virtue, is so powerful
and insinuating, that it makes itself felt even by those who do not
appreciate its value nor acknowledge its supremacy.
12 INTRODUCTION.
are unacquainted with the nature of the facts he was
the first to bring to light. It is, in short, a generally
received truth, that has been reached by that means
which only in modern times has been used, and to
which alone the rapid advance of all the sciences
within the last fifty years, is to be ascribed, viz: the
observation and comparison of facts.
This truth is the basis of the phrenological doc
trine.
It is a common opinion (so liable to delusion and
extravagance is the human mind) that Phrenology is
something extraordinary, out of the way—something
totally different from and opposed to all that is already
known. Here, on the contrary, we find the fact to be,
that it has as its foundation, a simple undisputed posi
tion; one that was ascertained to be a constituent part
of the harmonious system of natural laws the moment
that men had learnt how to study nature. By pursu
ing the natural process that has resulted in the disco
very of this law, it is confidently believed, that all
candid inquirers Will be led to consider as alike clear
ly demonstrable the existence of other laws relating
to the brain and the mind.
The brain, then, is the organ through which the
mind acts—the instrument of thought and feeling.
This, independently of Phrenology, may be stated
to be an established uncontroverted fact. The first
principle of Phrenology is identical with it. The
second principle is, that the mind consists of distinct
primitive faculties, and that each faculty manifests
itself through a separate portion of the brain. This
position is peculiar to Phrenology. Let us examine
how far it accords with known phenomena and with
other discovered laws of physiology. From the in
INTRODUCTION. 13
valuable work of Mr. George Combe of Edinburg,
the third edition of "A System of Phrenology," I de
rive the following observations bearing on this point.
1. "In the economy of the human body it is ascer
tained, that different functions are never performed by
the same organ, but, the reverse: each function has an
organ for itself: the stomach digests food, the liver
secretes bile, the heart propels the blood, the eyes see,
the ears hear, the tongue tastes, and the nose smells.
Nay, on analyzing these examples, it is found that
wherever the function is compound, each element of
it is performed by means of a distinct organ; thus, to
accomplish taste, there is one nerve whose office is to
move the tongue, another nerve whose duty it is to
communicate the ordinary sense of feeling to the
tongue, and a third nerve which conveys the sensa
tions of taste. A similar combination of nerves takes
place in the hands, arms, and other parts of the body,
which are the organs of feeling; namely, one nerve
gives motion, another feeling, and a third conveys to
the brain the condition of the organ; and, except in
the case of the tongue, all these nerves are blended
in one common sheath.
2. "Genius is almost always partial, which it ought
not to be, if the organ of the mind were single. A
genius for poetry, for mechanics, for drawing, for
music, or for mathematics, sometimes appears at a very
early age in individuals, who, in regard to all other
pursuits, are mere ordinary men, and who, with every
effort, can never attain to any thing above mediocrity.
3. "The phenomena of dreaming are at variance with
the supposition of the mind manifesting all its faculties
by means of a single organ, while they are quite con
sistent with, and explicable by, that of a plurality of
2*
14 INTRODUCTION.
organs. In dreaming the mind experiences numerous
vivid emotions, such as those of fear, joy, affection,
arising, succeeding one another, and departing with
out control from the intellectual powers;—or, it is
filled with a thousand varied conceptions, sometimes
connected and rational, but more frequently disjointed
and absurd, and all differing widely from the waking
operations of the mind, in wanting harmony, consis
tency, and sense. These phenomena harmonize re
markably with the notion of a variety of faculties and
organs, some of which, being active, would communi
cate these ideas and feelings which constitute a dream,
while others, remaining asleep, would by their inac
tivity, permit that disordered action which charac
terizes the pictures formed by the fancy during sleep.
Were the organ of mind single, it is clear, that all the
faculties should be asleep or awake to the same extent
at the same time; or, in other words, that no such thing
as dreaming could take place.
4. "The admitted phenomena of partial idiocy and
partial insanity, are so plainly and strongly in contra
diction with the notion of a single organ of mind, that
Pinel himself, no friend to phrenology, asks if their
phenomena can be reconciled to such a conception.
"Partial idiocy is that state in which an individual
manifests one or several powers of the mind with an
ordinary degree of energy, while he is deprived to a
greater or less extent of the power of manifesting all
the others. Pinel, Haslam, Rush, Esquirol, and,
in short, every writer on insanity, speaks of the par
tial development of certain mental powers in idiots;
and Rush, in particular, not only alludes to the
powers of intellect, but also to the partial possession of
the moral faculties. Some idiots, he observes, are as
INTRODUCTION. 15
remarkable for correct moral feelings as some great
geniuses are for the reverse.
"Partial insanity, or that state in which one or more
faculties of the mind are diseased, without affecting
the integrity of the remainder, is known by the name
of Monomania, and appears, equally with the former,
to exclude the possibility of one organ executing the
functions of all the mental faculties; for the argument
constantly recurs, that if the organ be sufficiently
sound to manifest one faculty in its perfect state, it
ought to be equally capable of manifesting all,—which,
however, is known to be in direct opposition to fact."
Is, then, the second principle of phrenology in op
position to what is already known? Is it contradicted
by the universally observed phenomena relating to the
exhibition of mental qualities? Is it not, on the con
trary, corroborated by a vast variety of known facts
connected with the operations of the mind? Is it not
in analogy with the laws already discovered to exist
in the human economy?
It is ascertained, that all the known functions of the
body are performed by different organs; and it is ad
mitted, that the function of that part of the body call
ed the brain is, to be the organ of mind: it is found,
that nerves in close contact, enveloped in one com
mon sheath, have totally distinct functions; and the
anatomy of the brain shows it to consist of many
nerves: it is ascertained, that one nerve never per
forms two functions. What should be inferred from
these facts? Are we not impelled to the conclusion
that the brain, in fulfilling the general office of organ
of the mind, performs this duty through the appropria
tion of separate nerves to different mental faculties?
That there are distinct faculties of the mind will not
16 INTRODUCTION.
be disputed. The feeling of attachment to offspring
and the power of multiplying nine by seven are as
distinct from one another as the faculties of sight and
hearing. Are not the sense of justice and the capa
city to recollect places as different in their nature as
sensation and motion? the latter have been discovered
to be performed by different nerves running side by
side: is not the inference direct that the former are so
likewise, knowing, as we do, that through the brain
they are performed, and that the brain consists of a
plurality of nerves?
I appeal to the reason of the candid reader, and ask
him—is there any thing unreasonable or eccentric in.
the phrenological position, that the mind, whose or
gan is the brain, manifests its various faculties through
different portions of the brain? It is not hazarding too
much to say, that had not Gall anticipated the march
of science, the development of the laws of the human
organization consequent upon the severe method of
investigation latterly introduced, and the zealous in
dustry and philosophical spirit with which science is
now cultivated, would certainly in a short time have,
by regular process of discovery, led to those results
which the genius of Gall suddenly seized by one of
those quick grasps of intelligence which genius alone
can make.
Having noted the accordance of the second funda
mental principle of Phrenology with well known
phenomena and established laws, let us endeavor to
obtain a clear understanding of its force and nature.
Gall arrived at the conclusion, that different por
tions of the brain were dedicated to the manifestation
of particular faculties, by observing the unfailing co
incidence between the unusual prominence of particu
INTRODUCTION. 17
lar parts of the cranium, and the existence in more
than common strength of particular feelings or talents.
The plan of this introduction will not permit me to
enter into the interesting and instructive detail of his
labours. After he had, by a persevering course of
observation and experiment, satisfied himself of the
relation between certain faculties of the mind and
certain portions of the brain, he, for the first time,
directed his attention to the structure of the brain.—
His examinations and dissections, and those of Dr.
Spurzheim, who became associated with him in
1804, resulted in the discovery that the nervous mass
of the brain consists of fibres running from that part
of the base of it, (as from a common starting point,)
where the junction between the spine and the brain
takes place, to the surface. At the surface they form
the convolutions observed when the skull is removed.
Here was a totally new discovery in anatomy: nothing
was before known of this fibrous structure of the
brain. Mark now how truth strengthens truth.—
Gall, urged by the disclosures which the develop
ments of the brain at its surface had made, to investi
gate its interior, discovered in its structure, (hitherto
unknown,) a perfect conformity to what the most ex
tensive observations and often repeated experiments
had convinced him must be its functions. Dr. Spurz
heim, who, as Mr. Combe observes, "has not only
added many valuable discoveries to those of Gall, in
the anatomy and physiology of the brain, but formed
the truths brought to light, by their joint observations,
into a beautiful and interesting system of mental phi
losophy," devoted himself at this time especially to
the anatomy, which he thoroughly investigated, and
he explained the best method of dissecting the brain,
18 INTRODUCTION.
and exposing its parts. I refer the reader to his va
luable work, entitled "The Anatomy of the Brain."
Gall and Dr. Spurzheim always found, on remov
ing the skull, that the brain presented a form corres
ponding to that which the skull had exhibited during
life. To this fact other physiologists and anatomists
bear testimony. Magendie says: "The only way to
measure the volume of the brain in a living person, is,
to measure the dimensions of the skull; every other
means, even that proposed by Camper, is uncertain."
Mr. Charles Bell observes:—"Thus, we find that
the bones of the head are moulded to the brain, and
the peculiar shapes of the bones of the head are de
termined by the original peculiarity in the shapes of
the brain." The celebrated Cuvier says:—"In all
mamiferous animals the brain is moulded in the cav
ity of the cranium, which it fills exactly; so that the
description of the osseous part affords us a knowledge
of at least the external form of the medullary mass
within."
We have, then, the structure of the brain disclosed
to us: we find its nervous fibres, originating at the
medulla oblongata, or point of junction between the
spinal marrow and the brain, running in all directions
to the surface, and there forming the convolutions:
and we know that the skull is a faithful index of the
general size of the brain, and of the development of
particular parts of it. It is affirmed, that those fibres
which terminate in the posterior and lateral surface
of the base of the brain are the organs of those feel
ings denominated, from their nature, propensities;
that those which run in a vertical direction and ter
minate in the surface of the upper part of the brain are
the organs of another class of feelings, differing some
INTRODUCTION. 19
what in their general character from the first, and
called sentiments; and that the fibres which termi
nate in the surface of the forehead are the instruments
through which the intellectual faculties perform
their operations.* It must be borne in mind that the
brain is double, being divided lengthwise into two
equal similar hemispheres by a membranous partition
running vertically and called the falciform process; so
that each mental faculty, like the external senses of
sight and hearing, has two organs. Here is the out
line of a head with the three above described divisions
indicated—the region marked 1 being that portion of
the surface where the nervous fibres devoted to be the
organs of the propensities terminate, 2 that of the
sentiments, and 3 presenting a part of the forehead.
*This classification is not hypothetical. It has not been made
by Gall or Spurzheim: it has been discovered. When Gall had
made a certain progress in his researches, he observed, that ofthe
mental qualities whose connexion with particular portions of the
20 INTRODUCTION.
It has been stated that all these fibres begin at the
medulla oblongata, or point of junction between the
brain and spine; consequently, in order to learn their
relative lengths, we must ascertain the position of
this common starting point. Now, the orifice of the
ear is always in a fixed relation to this point, being in
every head directly opposite to the anterior edge of
the orifice through which the junction takes place; so
that we have in the living head an external index by
which we can determine the relative development of
these general regions of the brain. If, for instance,
in a given head, the ear is placed far back, we know
that the nerves which terminate in the region marked
3, are long in comparison with those of No. 1, and
that the mental constitution is in conformity with this
development.
A comparison between the heads of animals and
that of man presents a striking illustration of the po
sition, that these several regions of the brain are de
voted to be the media of manifestation of the classes
of faculties we have described. Let the reader figure
to himself the upper part of the human brain remov
ed—nearly all that portion, namely, comprehended in
No. 2, and No. 3—change the nose into a snout, and
take away the chin, (which Abernethy says is pecu
liar to the human face,) and he will have the general
form of the head of the dog, horse, or ox. All their
brain lies behind and just above the ears, and between
them and the top of the nose: they have no forehead,
nor no upward expansion of the head: the portion
brain be felt himself authorised to look upon as certain, those be
tween which there was a sympathy or resemblance had their or
gans near to one another. Thus, this general arrangement ofthe
organs has developed itself out of the individual discoveries.
INTRODUCTION. 21
also of their brain anterior to the ears is narrow and
low. Now, what are the faculties we have stated to
be manifested through this remaining portion of the
brain? Chiefly the propensities—all of which are
possessed by some animals, and most of them by many:
the small portion of anterior brain, corresponds (as
the reader will hereafter see,) to the ascertained posi
tion of the organs of several of the simplest intellec
tual faculties—those of perceiving and recollecting in
dividual objects and places: the feeling of caution is
strong in some animals, and the organ is situated in
the lower part of region No. 2, on a line with the ear.
Some animals, it is supposed, reason: they certainly
exhibit phenomena which are not satisfactorily expli
cable on any other supposition.. The reasoning pow
er (if they possess any) of the most sagacious is,
however, very feeble—limited to a momentary effort.
No animal can trace cause and effect to the extent of
keeping up a fire.
The peculiar mental attributes of man are:—the ca
pacity of distinguishing colours, of observing and pro
ducing symmetrical arrangement among physical ob
jects, of counting and making numerical combinations,
of noting the passage of time—the adaptation of cere
bral organization to these intellectual powers gives
the breadth immediately above the.eyebrows peculiar
to the human head;—the capacity of abstract reason
ing, of tracing back causes into the distant past, and
foreseeing consequences in the remote future—cor
responding to which is his lofty expanded forehead;
the sentiments of the Beautiful, of Hope, of Wonder,
and the elevated ones of Benevolence, Veneration,
and Conscientiousness—whose appropriate cerebral
organs expand and enlarge the top of the head. In
3
22 INTRODUCTION.
order to make the comparison between the human and
the animal head more complete, I have anticipated
somewhat the enumeration of the individual faculties
given at the conclusion of the introduction. The
reader is referred to it.
To illustrate this position by a comparison of human
heads, you have here the profile of two which present
a strong contrast in their general developments.
Observe the perpendicular forehead, the full swell
and distance from the orifice of the ear of the upper
outline, in the one on the right; and the rapidly re
treating forehead, (it scarcely deserves the name,) and
shallowness of the upper region in the second: the
only resemblance between the two is in the develop
ment of the region of the propensities.—The first is
the head of Raphael, one of the most extraordinarily
gifted men whose character is recorded in history—
endowed with a superior intellectual capacity, with
the finest susceptibilities of the beautiful, the true, and
the good, and with that strength of animal impulse
which communicates the energy and warmth of char
acter that are essential to make a man useful and attach
ing. Raphael, although he died at the early age of
thirty-three, has left an imperishable fame.—The other
is the head of one of the natives of New Holland.—
Sir Walter Scott describes them in the following lan-
INTRODUCTION. 23
guage:—"The natives of New Holland are, even at
present, in the very lowest scale of humanity, and
ignorant of every art which can add comfort or decen
cy to human life. These unfortunate savages use no
clothes, construct no cabins or huts, and are ignorant
even of the manner of chasing animals, or catching
fish, unless such of the latter as are left by the tide,
or which are found on the rocks; they feed upon the
most disgusting substances, snakes, worms, maggots,
and whatever trash falls in their way. They know,
indeed, how to kindle a fire; in that respect only they
have stept beyond the deepest ignorance to which
man can be subjected; but they have not learned how
to boil water; and when they see Europeans perform
this ordinary operation, they have been known to
run away in great terror."
My design in these few introductory pages is mere
ly to explain succinctly the first principles of Phre
nology, to point out to the reader, in a general man
ner, their conformity with other known principles
and ascertained laws in the economy of nature, and
to direct the attention to hitherto unobserved, or un
appreciated facts. All that I, therefore, can do fur
ther in explanation of the law, that the mind consists
of distinct faculties, and that each one has its appro
priate separate organ in the brain, will be, to enume
rate the faculties, state in a few words the sphere of
action of each, and indicate on a representation of the
cranium the part of the surface where each individual
organ terminates.
This enumeration I will leave for the conclusion,
and proceed now to make some remarks on the third
principle of Phrenology, which is, that other things
being equal, the strength of each particular faculty is
in proportion to the size of its organ.
24 INTRO DUCTION.
Does this principle involve any new element?—- .
Does the admission of its truth require the abandon
ment of any other established principle? Will the
experienced naturalist, on hearing it announced, ex
claim—"Here is a new doctrine in physiology, I know
of nothing analogous to it, I doubt its correctness?"—
Will he not, on the contrary, say—"Show that the
mental faculties manifest themselves through physical
organs, and this follows of course; it is but the appli
cation of a law of nature operating universally?" Let
us, to test its conformity to discovered laws of organ
ization, inform ourselves of what is the effect of size
with other nerves: illustrations drawn from the same
department will be most apposite. From Mr. Combe's
third edition of his "System of Phrenology," I derive
the following facts, stated on the authority, chiefly,
of Des Moulins, a celebrated French physiologist.
"Speaking generally," says Mr. Combe, "there are
two classes of nerves distributed over the body, those
of motion and those of sensation or feeling. In mo
tion, the muscle is the essential or ehief apparatus,
and the nerve is required only to communicate to it
the impulse of the will; but in sensation the reverse
is the case,—the nerve itself is the chief instrument,
and the part on which it is ramified is merely a me
dium for putting it in relation with the specific quali
ties which it is destined to recognize."
"The horse and ox have much greater muscular
power, and much less intensity of sensation in' their
limbs than man, and the nerves of motion going to the
four limbs in the horse and ox are at least one third
more numerous than the nerves of sensation going to
the same parts; whereas in man the nerves of motion
going to the legs and arms are a fifth or a sixth part
INTRODUCTION. 25
less than the nerves of sensation distributed on the
same parts. In like manner, in birds and reptiles
which have scaly skins and limited touch, but vigor
ous powers of motion, the nerves of sensation are few
and small, and the nerves of motion numerous and
large. Farther, wherever nature has given a higher
degree of sensation or touch to any particular part than
to the other parts of an animal, there the nerve of
sensation is invariably increased; for example the sin
gle nerve of feeling ramified on the tactile extremity
of the proboscis of the elephant exceeds in size the
united volume of all the muscular nerves of that or
gan. Birds require to rise in the air, which is a me
dium much lighter than their own bodies. To have
enlarged the size of their muscles would have added
to their weight, and increased their difficulty in ris
ing. Nature, to avoid this disadvantage, has bestowed
on them large nerves of motion which infuse a very
powerful stimulus into the muscles, and increase their
power of motion. Fishes live in water, which is al
most in equilibrium with their bodies. To them na
ture has given large muscles, in order to increase
their locomotive powers, and in them the nerves of
motion are less. In these instances, nature curiously
adds to the power of motion, by increasing the size of
that part of the locomotive apparatus which may be
enlarged most conveniently for the animal; but either
the muscle or the nerve must be enlarged, otherwise
there is no increase of power.
"In regard to the external senses, it is proper to
observe that every external sense is composed, first,
of an instrument or medium on which the impression
is made—the eye for example; and, secondly, a nerve
to conduct that impression to the mind or brain. The
3*
26 INTRODUCTION'.
same law of size holds as to them: a large eye will
collect more rays of light: a large ear more vibrations
of sound; and large nostrils more odorous particles
than small ones." In support of this position Mr.
Combe cites Monro, BluMenbach, Soemmering,
Cuvier, Magendie, Georget, and states that many
other physiologists might be mentioned. I will quote
from him only one more illustration of it.
"The organ of sight affords a most interesting ex
ample of the influence of size. The office of the eye
ball is to collect the rays of light. A large eye,
therefore, will take in more rays of light, or, in other
words, command a greater sphere of vision, than a
small one. But to give intensity or power to vision,
the optic nerve is also necessary. Now, the ox placed
upon the surface of the earth is of a heavy structure
and ill fitted for motion; but he has a large eye-ball,
which enables him to take in a large field of vision
without turning; but as he does not require very keen
vision to see his provender on which he almost treads,
the optic nerve is not large in proportion to the eye
ball. The eagle, on the other hand, by ascending to
a great height in the air, enjoys a wide field of vision
from its mere physical position. It looks down from
a point over an extensive surface. It has no need,
therefore, of a large eye-ball to increase artificially its
field of vision; and, accordingly, the ball of its eye is
comparatively small. But it requires, from that
height, to discern its prey upon the surface of the
earth, and not only is its distance great, but its prey
often resembles in color the ground on which it rests;
great intensity of vision, therefore, is necessary to its
existence. Accordingly, in it the optic nerve is in
creased to an enormous extent. Instead of forming a
INTRODUCTION. 27
single membrane lining only the inner surface of the
posterior chamber of the eye, as in man and animals
of ordinary vision, and consequently only equalling in
extent the sphere of the eye to which it belongs, the
retina or nerve of vision in these quick-sighted birds
of prey is found to be composed of a great number of
lolds, each hanging loose into the eye, and augment
ing, in an extraordinary degree, not only the extent
of nervous surface, but the mass of nervous matter,
and giving rise to that intensity of vision which dis
tinguishes the eagle, falcon, hawk, and similar ani
mals."
These facts are, doubtless, sufficient to satisfy the
reader that the principle of Phrenology,—that power
of function is in proportion to the size of the organ,—
so far from forming an exception to the known laws of
nature, is in perfect harmony with them; and that, in
deed, reasoning from the analogy of laws ascertained
to govern organized matter generally, would have led
to the opinion, that it is a principle which would hold
good in the cerebral organs.
This principle applies both in comparing the brains
of different individuals, and in comparing the develop
ments, of the several regions and of the individual
organs of the same brain.* We have here the repre
sentations of two heads.
* In making practical application of this law, several circu in
stances are to be attended to: first, the size of the whole brain;
secondly, the comparative development of the several general re
gions; and lastly, the comparative development of individual or
gans. These points must be successively observed. To do this,
the average size of the adult human brain, and the average rela
tive developments of the general divisions of it, must be ascer
tained as a standard of comparison.
INTttODCCl'IOK,
INTRODUCTION. 29
These two heads stand at the two extremes of human
cerebral organization: the first presents the most noble
and beautiful outline: the second is scarcely human in
its form. The minds manifested through them were
equally unlike: the first is the head of the great Ger
man Gothe: the other, that of an idiot.
The broad phrenological doctrine is, that a small
brain cannot manifest a powerful capacious mind;*
and that, individuals with brains of similar size, other
things being equal, will be of equal mental capacity.
By other things being equal is meant, similarity in
temperament and healthfulness of brain. The influ
ence of temperament is admitted; but this admission
does not weaken the force of the principle. The in
fluence, also, of education and exercise is great in
rendering one mind more efficient than another, when
the brains are in all respects alike; but this does not
at all affect our position, which is, that two such brains
are equal in capacity. No original vivacity of tem
perament can supply the absence of size in the brain;
and no cultivation can of itself communicate power of
function. Temperament may add activity to the mind,
and education will increase its strength and facility of
operation; but the effects of both are limited—the
limit being original organization. When I say the
effects of education are limited, I speak relatively: I
compare art with nature. Education is an art, and
one which, when skilfully practised, can produce
great results; but the degree of its results is in all
cases dependent upon the quality of the material it
has to work upon. A sculptor can bring out of the
coarsest block a speaking statue; but he requires fine
•The word mind is always used to embrace both feeling and
intellect.
30 INTRODUCTION.
grained marble to produce a Venus. A skilful educa
tion can make much of the worst subject. What do
we not see discipline and training do on a dog with
his few narrow capacities? how immeasurably greater
may be the effect where that which is operated on is
the vast and various capabilities of man. Education
develops, it does not create: it works with given, finite
materials: it is, in short, merely an art:—it is an art,
too, which through Phrenology is destined to be per
fected.
I will conclude what I have to say on this principle
of Phrenology with one more illustration of it. It is
this,—that, leaving out of the question all modifying
influences, to which the brain like all else in nature
is liable, we assert unconditionally, that all men of
great and powerful minds—men
"who tower in the van
Ofall the congregated world,"
have large brains. We say that Washington, Ce
sar, Bacon, Bonaparte, Franklin, Shakspeare,
must have had large brains.
The principle applies in like manner and more un
reservedly (as there is no modifying influence of tem
perament) to the power of function in the different
- regions and organs of the same brain. No skill of
education or control of outward circumstances could
ever enlarge to excellence the intellectual capacity of
an individual with a brain like that of the New Hol
lander; nor depress to inferiority that of an individual
with one like Giithe. The same holds good with
single organs and faculties.
I will now enumerate the faculties of man as ascer
tained through the discovery of the connection be
tween individual capacities of mind and separate por
INTRODUCTION. 31
tions of the brain. Each one of the following enu
merated faculties has been in this way disentangled,
as it were, from the general mass of mind. Each one
here asserted to exist as an independent, primitive,
inborn, mental power, has been verified by a multitude
of observations and experiments made by various per
sons. I therefore state results, not suppositions.*
The mind consists, in the first place, of two orders
of faculties, viz: faculties of feeling and faculties of
intellect. Each of these orders is subdivided into
two genera: the feelings into propensities and senti
ments; and the intellect into perceptive and reflecting
faculties. I shall prefix to each faculty the number
corresponding to the number of its organ on the ac
companying diagram.
*Many of the terms by which faculties are designated are ob
jectionable. It is, in most instances, impossible to find or to com
pound words which shall indicate with precision their definite
spheres of action. All that can be accomplished by a nomencla
ture is, to approximate to the simple function, and to give epithets
to the faculties which shall at least distinguish each one from
the others.
In enumerating the faculties, I have placed them in that suc
cession which appeared to me to be most conformable to their rela
tive functions and the position of their organs.
I have not included the external senses among the intellectual
faculties, for they are not, it seems to me, at all intellectual: they
do not see into any thing: they do not form ideas. They are but
the passive mirrors on which impressions from without are made:
the internal senses, the perceptive intellectual faculties, take cog
nizance of these impressions. The external senses are like a
sheet of white paper, upon which the objects of the external
world are written; but the characters thus written are read and
interpreted by other faculties.
As the enumeration of the individual faculties is merely made
to enable the reader to understand the allusions to them and the
position of their organs, I have only indicated by a few words the
function of each.
INTRODUCTION. 33
ORDER I.
FEELINGS.
The general characteristics of the feelings or affec
tive faculties are, in the language of Dr. Spurzheim,
as follows: "They have their origin from within, and
are not acquired by any external impressions or cir
cumstances. They must be felt to be understood, for
they cannot be taught: in themselves they are blind
and without understanding: they do not know the ob
jects of their satisfaction, and act without reflection."
Genus f.
Propensities.
There are nine distinct Propensities, each having its
specific nature and independent sphere of action: they
are all common to man and animals.
1. Amativeness. The feeling of physical love.
2. Philoprogenitiveness. Love of offspring and
children generally.
3. Concentrativeness. It gives the desire for per
manence in place, and for permanence of emotions and
ideas in the mind. *^
4. Adhesiveness. Attachment: friendship and fond
ness for social intercourse result from it.
5. Cotnbativeness. Courage to meet danger, to
overcome difficulties, and to resist attacks.
6. Destructiveness. Desire to destroy. It is very
discernible in carniverous animals.
7. Secretiveness. It gives the disposition and the
power to conceal. It disposes to be secret in thought
word and deed.
4
34 INTRODUCTION.
8. Acquisitiveness. Desire to possess, to accumu
late.
9. Constructiveness. Propensity to build, to con
struct: it gives dexterity in the use of tools in the me
chanical arts, and of the brush and chisel in the arts
of painting and sculpture.*
Genus II.
Sentiments.
These feelings are accompanied by an emotion of a
peculiar kind, and hence they are called sentiments
to distinguish them from the mere propensities.
10. Cautiousness. This sentiment is the basis of
fear: it is the chief ingredient in prudence.
11. Love of Approbation. Desire of the good
opinion of others, of fame, of glory.
12. Self-Esteem. Self-interest; it gives a love of
power.
13. Firmness. Fortitude, perseverance.
14. Ideality. Love of the beautiful, desire of ex
cellence; it is the basis of the poetical.
15. Hope. It produces a tendency to look forward
to the future with confidence and reliance.
16. Wonder. This sentiment gives a desire of nov
elty; it delights in the marvellous.
17. Imitation. Gives a tendency to imitate; it is
necessary to the actors particularly, and the artist.
18. Wit. This sentiment gives a tendency to view
objects and events in a ludicrous light.
* Jn the bust I have followed that in Mr. Combe's third edition,
by marking thus the position of a conjectured organ of appe
tite for food, a feeling considered, by Drs. Gall and Spurzheim and
by Dr. Hoppe of Copenhagen, distinct from mere hunger.
INTRODUCTION. 35
19. Conscientiousness. The desire to act justly;
the love of truth.
20. Veneration. This sentiment produces respect,
and reverence for what is great and good.
21. Benevolence. Desire of the happiness of others;
sympathy with all living creatures: it produces kind
ness, charity.
ORDER II.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
The essential nature of these faculties is to know.
By means of them we learn the existence, the quali
ties and the relations of external objects, and of our
own minds. They are divided into two classes—the
perceptive and the reflecting faculties.
Genus I.
Perceptivefaculties.
22. Language. Power of acquiring the artificial
signs of things and ideas—words.
23. Individuality. Perceives* individual physical
objects.
24. 25. 26. 27. These four faculties perceive the
four physical qualities inseparable from every object,
viz: Form, Size, Weight, Colour.
28. Order. Perceives the physical arrangement of.
objects.
* I state only the simplest mode of activity of these faculties,
which is perception. The other modes are memory and imagina
tion. They retain and recall what they have perceived;—this is
memory: and they form, out of the materials observed by percep
tion, and stored up by memory, new combinations;—this is ima
gination.
36 INTRODUCTION.
29. Number. Power of counting and combining
numbers.
30. Eventuality. Perceives facts and events.
31. Locality. Perceives the relative position of
places.
32. Time. Perceives the passage of time.
33. Tune. Perceives musical sounds and their
relations.
Genus II.
Intellectualfaculties.
34. Comparison. Power of discovering analogies
and resemblances.
35. Causality. Traces the dependencies of phe
nomena, and the relation of cause and effect.
Such are the fundamental faculties which constitute
the human mind, as they have been deduced from the
discovery of the connexion between mental powers
and cerebral organs. Such is a sketch of the system
that has been evolved by the laborious cultivation of
this great discovery—a system designated by the
term Phrenology, formed from the two Greek words
9fijv mind, and Myog discourse. Let us take a rapid
survey of the outline of the system whose parts have
been thus put together. Let us (for a moment) dis
miss from our thoughts the idea of the dependence
asserted to have been discovered between man's mind
and his material organization, and, considering the lat
ter as merely an auxiliary scaffolding, direct our view
to the edifice behind it, and note its proportions.
Its basis, observe, is formed of pure animal feelings.
Scrutinize them, and you will find that each one is
primarily essential to the existence of man: they con*
INTRODUCTION. 37
stitute him an animal and a social being: through
them, he perpetuates his race, protects, preserves
himself, and is bound to his fellow-creatures. They
are direct impulses acting on specific external objects:*
their action is first necessary, before the rest of his
being can be developed: they are the roots which fix
him firmly in his allotted place. Such are the pro
pensities. Ascending from them, the first faculties in
the enumeration are those whose activity produces
wariness and prudence; the desire to be well consid
ered by his fellows; self-respect; and resolution.—
Here is a wide enlargement of man's nature. These
are feelings that imply—nay, that require, the pre-ex-
istence of others. Not so the propensities. Each
propensity, (although its influence and aid are indi
rectly felt by other faculties,) could perform its indi
vidual function if there existed no other feeling: it
acts right out, in a straight line, as it were, upon a
specific class of external objects. These, on the con
trary, are moved to activity in concurrence with other
faculties, whose action they modify. To be cautious,
for instance, implies powers already put in motion,
whose movements caution is to affect. Love of children
requires only an external object, to allow full scope to
its impulse.—We find, then, the being of man enlar
ged and made complicated by these few additional
feelings. Pursue the enumeration. How much more
enlarged, and how elevated and refined is his nature
by the presence of those which next present them
selves:—susceptibility to the beautiful and a striving
towards perfection; bright confidence in life; eager
curiosity for and delight in the novel and striking;
* Secretivencss is a partial exception to this, it being a general
propensity to conceal.
4*
38 INTRODUCTION.
power of imitating the beauties and contrivances in
nature; joyous pleasure extracted even from ordinary
events. And now, mark the nature and sphere of
action of the three remaining feelings. The first—
the vigilant guide of all others, the never-sleeping
watch on their seducing impulses, the unfailing de-
tecter and unpardoning judge of their errings; the
second—lifting man up to reverence for the great and
good, purifying him with the spirit of obedience and
submission; the last—imbuing him with universal
love, ever prompting to take from himself and give to
others, to judge no fellow creature, and to pity alike
the most sinful and the most miserable; and all three—
embracing with their benign power the multiplied re
lations of man's complex being—on his inmost motives
a supreme tribunal, whose law is—be just, be humble,
be merciful. These are the faculties of feeling. Re
view in' the same cursory manner those of intellect.
The first is the.power of creating vocal signs to repre
sent the sensations and ideas which any and all of the
other mental powers may produce; then the faculties
which take cognizance of individual objects in the
physical world, and of their four essential physical
qualities. Here is presented as the basis of the intel
lectual capacity of man a class of mental powers whose
destination is, to give him knowledge of the outward
world—to enable him to know the vast variety of phy
sical existences with which he is placed in contact.
The agency of these faculties is limited to this simple
function: they furnish ideas of matter and its neces
sary qualities: they thus supply the material which
is the foundation of all human knowledge. A higher
process of intellection is that which obtains knowledge
of relations. The simplest relations are those of the
INTRODUCTION 39
physical arrangement of objects, and their number,
perceived by two special faculties. Eventuality is the
next enumerated. Individuality takes cognizance of
single physical objects;—Eventuality of single facts;
and every fact can be resolved into a simple relation—
a relation either between two or more physical objects,
or, between a mental power or powers and a physical
object or objects, or, between the operations of the
mental powers themselves. Individuality, for exam
ple, forms the idea of a man as a mere physical object:
Eventuality notes that he was running, walking, talk
ing, &c, all of which are facts, that is, things done,
things' that occurred: our feeling of Benevolence is
excited by a man in distress—we relieve him;—Even
tuality observes and stores up both the particular ope-
tion of the feeling and the result; for both are distinct
facts. I dwell somewhat upon this faculty, in order to
make clear the gradual expansion of the intellectual
power of man, and to present a picture of the scale of
intellection. What an immense enlargement, through
this one power, of the sphere and means of know
ledge: it perceives and stores up all varieties of occur
rences: it embraces all facts in history and science: all
the other faculties furnish it with materials from with
out and from within: it is the central treasury of the
mind. Next to it are the faculties which take note of
specific classes of relations, viz: the relations of dif
ferent places to one another; of different moments of
time; and of musical sounds. Two faculties remain;
those of reasoning. Eventuality perceives and stores
up in memory all kinds of facts. This is an impor
tant step in knowledge, beyond that of the existence
of physical objects. What is the next step to carry
us still higher?—To classify these facts. This is the
40 INTRODUCTION.
office of the faculty called Comparison. It compares
facts, finds out relations of resemblance, and forms
classes according to these relations: it generalizes: it
shapes the heterogeneous mass of materials collected
by the perceptive faculties into harmonious divisions:
until it acts, all is chaos: at its touch, order springs
out of confusion. The perceptive faculties place be
fore us the world with its countless contents and infi
nite relations, and by the action of this faculty we
have them arranged in grand harmonious divisions,
each of these subdivided into numerous classes, which
are again distributed according to subordinate resem
blances, so that of the vast multitude of details of
which the universe of mind and matter is made up,
each one is linked by some common harmony to others.
Still, this bond, which thus unites in beautiful accord
the parts of this wondrous whole, is superficial. It
is but the bond formed by partial resemblance. The
strongest link in the mental chain is yet wanting—
and that is the link which makes a union, not on ac
count of relative likeness, but of necessary connexion,
of absolute dependence—the union of effect and cause.
To supply this link is the function of the last faculty.
It takes no note of bodies, nor of facts, nor of resem
blances; their mere existence is nought to it; it is the
cause of their existence it concerns itself with: it
questions them—not what are they, but, whence are
they, why are they: it will know their origin and
their purpose: it looks to what is, only to learn what
has been, and what is to be: it searches the past for
causes of the present, and with this knowledge con
trols the future: it makes nature render to it the ante
cedents of the actual, and then reaches forward to its
consequents. Comparison is wide-seeing, compre-
INTRODUCTION. 41
hensive; Causality is far-seeing, penetrating. The
sun, as he appears to us on our meridian, casting down
the rays which reveal and make bright the beauties
of the earth, may be taken as a type of the effect of
Comparison: his position on our horizon, when we
behold him flinging far back his clear beams and know
that he is sending them equally far before him, con
quering darkness on both sides, images the action of
Causality. The two together constitute that high in
tellectual operation—reasoning, to which both are
necessary, and in which they co-operate. Without
them the mind would be like the earth without the
sun—dark: they are its guiding light.
The reader will be able to obtain from this imper
fect sketch a general idea of the system of mental
philosophy as it had been deduced by Gall and Spurz-
heini, and their disciples.* Based upon authenticated
facts, and constructed gradually in the severest spirit
of induction, its truth can only be tested by experi
ment and diligent investigation. All that has been
attempted to be effected by this introduction has been,
to enable the reader to understand the principles of
the system, and the illustrations of them that are con-
* The reader is referred to Gall's work, "Sur les fonctions du
Cerveau;" to the following works of Dr. Spurzheim, "The Ana
tomy of the Brain," "Phrenology," "Physiognomical System,"
"Philosophical principles of Phrenology," and his work on educa
tion; to Mr. George Combe's "System of Phrenology," a third
edition of which has recently been published at Edinburg; and to
the excellent Journal, (from which, with two exceptions, the se
lections in this volume are made,) published quarterly at Edinburg.
A Phrenological Journal has also recently been established at
Paris, one number of which, containing very able articles, has
reached this country: its title is Journal de la Sociiti Phrinologi-
que de Paris.
42 INTRODUCTION.
tained in the following selections. If it shall have
done this, or removed from the minds of any, false
impressions in regard to Phrenology, it will have ac
complished its purpose.
In conclusion, I will add a few words in anticipation
of a remark, which some readers will probably be dis
posed to make: to most of them, doubtless, the bear
ings of the doctrine—its soundness being admitted—
will stand self-evident. The remark is this.—"Sup
pose Phrenology to be true, I do not see what good is
to come of it."—The Constitution of the human mind
discovered, and no good to come of the discovery!—
The problem, which has engaged, and puzzled, the
profoundest minds of all ages, solved,—the mystery,
against whose walls the waves of speculation have
been vainly beating for thousands of years, laid open
to general view,—and this, a mere bootless achiev-
ment of misdirected ingenuity! What but ultimate
good has the knowledge of nature's laws ever produc
ed? That every discovery of these laws is pregnant
with benefit to man, is itself a law of nature. The
improvements of modern times in the sciences and
useful arts are the result of such discoveries. The
physical comforts and refinements of life are but prac
tical applications of the knowledge of natural laws.
In the aggregate result which constitutes life, what
are the contributions from all other sources in com
parison with the affections, the desires, the capacities
of the mind? Are these not the staple out of which
our existence is daily spun? It is their activity which
constitutes life. All pursuits and occupations involve
the exercise of mind, and depend for their success
upon the discriminating application of its capabilities.
To know its laws, is to obtain the means of making
INTRODUCTION. 43
all other knowledge more valuable: it is, to get con
trol over the source whence flow the various streams
which move the thousand wheels of life's labours and
pleasures; and thus, to possess the power of direct
ing them, both to more efficient and to more harmoni
ous action. To protect the tender susceptibilities of
the young being awakening in a coarse and rough
world,—to exercise its opening powers,—to give to
the solicitations of warm impulses healthful gratifica
tion,—to control without impairing the innate vigour
of young aspirations,—to shape without contracting
the self-developing proportions of manhood,—in short,
to perform the sacred duty of preparing the youth to
be a man, there must be distinct knowledge of what
are the original elements with which every individual
human being is at birth endowed. How can the
feelings be controlled, be safely indulged, be balanc
ed one against the other—the intellectual powers
cultivated, without precise ideas of the primitive na
ture of each and of their relative influences? Unpro
vided with this knowledge, in attempting to keep pure,
you may corrupt the currents of growing life,—in
stead of developing, you may distort,—instead of edu
cating, you mislead.—And when the human being is
launched, a man, upon the world, to assume the re
sponsibilities, to perform the duties of independent so
cial existence—what is the most important knowledge
he can possess? Is it not self-knowledge? The in
strument with which he sets out to hew his way in the
world and build up his fortune, is his mind. And is
not the first requisite for the skilful use of this deli
cate, powerful, complicated instrument,—as of every
subordinate one,—intimate acquaintance with its quali
ties and powers? Every word he speaks, every step he
44 INTRODUCTION.
takes, every act he does, is the result of its movement.
The knowledge, then, of the internal springs upon
whose force and nature this movement depends, is the
greatest power he can hold—the completest equip
ment with which he can start on his career. Expe
rience only, can make him wise; but this knowledge
makes the lessons of experience significant and in
structive. It is a pure medium through which the
light of experience shines unrefracted and undim-
med; and by the rays of this light he polishes and
strengthens and disciplines—he educates himself.
What, without this knowledge, is the legislator (the
most important and responsible agent in society)?—
for ever a bungling empiric. What, without it, is a
human being in any position or condition?—a half-
man,—an unfinished creature,—the poor possessor of
an unappreciated treasure. Is it then, asked—"What
is the use of Phrenology if it be true?"—The question
may be answered by another which embraces it;—
what is the use of Man?
ARTICLE I.
{From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. 82, 1832.]
LEBENSGESCHICHTE DER GIFT-MORDERIN GESCHE
MARGARETHE GOTTFRIED, &c. Bremen, 1831.
THE LIFE OF GESCHE MARGARETHE GOTTFRIED,
Murderer by Poison. Compiled by Dr. F. L. Voget, her
Counsel, from her own Confessions and from Judicial Documents.
Bremen, 1831.
Gesche Margarethe Gottfried, living in Bre
men, was, in March 1828, accused of having caused
the death of a number of persons by poison. Before
this accusation, she had lived in apparently easy cir
cumstances in the middle ranks of life; her house was
elegantly furnished, and her dress and demeanour that
of a lady; her reputation was untainted; and the fre
quent deaths which occurred in her house were as
cribed to heavy and unaccountable visitations of God.
The development of her head, a cast of which was
presented to the Phrenological Society by Dr. Hirsch-
feld of Bremen, is as follows:—
Amativeness, large. Secretiveness, very large.
Philoprogenitiveness,verylarge. Self-esteem, large.
Concentrativeness, large. Love of Approbation, large.
Adhesiveness, rather large. Cautiousness, rather large.
Combativeness, full. Benevolence, small.
Destructiveness, enormously Veneration, large.
large. Hope, large.
Constructiveness, moderate. Ideality, moderate.
Acquisitiveness, large. Wonder, full.
5
46 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
Conscientiousness, full
Firmness, very large.
Individuality,
Eventuality,
Form, ! full
Size,
Weight,
Colouring, moderate.
Locality, full.
moderate.
Order, full.
Time,
Number,
Tune,
Language,
Comparison, rather full.
Causality, moderate.
Wit, rather small.
Imitation, rather small.
-
J
Gesche Margarethe Gottfried.
The head above the band, extending from the eye
brows to the top of the ear in the profile, and running
between the two ears in the back view, was denuded
of the integuments before the cast was taken, so that
the figures represent the bare skull. The back view
is a section through Destiuctiveness, Secretiveness,
and the point at which Veneration and Firmness join.
The position of the ears is lower than during life,
from the integuments in the upper part of the head
having been cut off. This also has increased the pro
jection of the chin. The engraver has made the de
pression corresponding to Conscientiousness too great.
The head is considerably more rounded at that part
than is here represented. The figure, being cut in
G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 47'
wood, could not be rectified. In all other respects it
is correct.
The skull measures from Destructiveness to Des
tructiveness exactly six inches, and from Secretive-
ness to Secretiveness the breadth is the same, both
without the integuments; which is a full measurement
for the male head, with the integuments. The distance
from Individuality (over the muscles) to Philoproge-
nitiveness is 7 3-8 inches. Destructiveness, Secre
tiveness, and Firmness, are the most prominent or
gans; and, by taking a cursory view of this woman's
life, we shall see how strong their influence over her
was.
Her father was a tailor in Bremen; active and indus
trious, but stingy, selfish, and inclined to superstition.
His religion was of a kind that influenced him, as long
as its practice did not interfere with his own interests;
and he attended church only when he had no work to
do at home.
Gesche Margarethe, and her twin brother, were
born in March 1783. These were the only children
of their father, and, when about four years old, were
both sent to school, where they remained till they
were nearly twelve. The commencement of Gesche's
career in sin may be dated from her seventh year, and
was partly owing to the avarice of her parents. Be
ing allowed no pocket-money, she was unable to ap
pear on ah equal footing with her school companions,
and she began to steal from her mother small sums at
first, but afterwards to a larger amount. This did not
remain long concealed from her mother, who, how
ever, ascribed it to the son, who was of a silent, bash
ful disposition, rather than to the daughter, whose
manners were frank; and although the mother had
48 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
afterwards occasion to suspect her daughter, still she
could not be certain, so artfully were the crimes con
cealed. Her father was accustomed to sing a hymn
every morning before commencing work, and it fre
quently happened that his daughter was moved to tears
by it. She was, however, of a very contradictory
spirit, and her mother had frequent occasion to com
plain of her conduct. As she became older, she was
sent to learn dancing, an accomplishment in which she
greatly delighted. She also attended a French class,
where another instance occurred of her Secretiveness
and Love of Approbation: to appear the first in her
class, she employed a young man, one of her acquain
tances, to write her lessons for her, which she then
copied and passed for her own.
Thus her life passed on with little variety till she
was twenty years of age, although, when sixteen, she
had already received three offers of marriage, which
she, or rather her father, declined. She was beauti
ful, and almost everywhere beloved and well received.
When about twenty, she received an offer of mar
riage from a saddler of the name of Miltenberg, which
she was induced to accept. This marriage proved far
from happy. Miltenberg had formerly been married
to a woman who rendered his house, a scene of misery
and discord, and to avoid her soeiety he always took
refuge in the taverns, and so acquired a propensity to
liquor which he could never overcome. He was in
duced to marry again chiefly by his father, for he had
been so thoroughly disgusted with marriage by his
former experience, that he had little desire to enter
into another contract, and frequent quarrels took place
between him and his father on the subject. Gesche
evinced no great love towards him, but the riches of
O. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 49
the suitor had a powerful influence over the mind of
her father, who prevailed on her to accept of the offer.
Miltenberg, however, loved his wife, and the more
he had been ashamed of his former wife, the more he
seemed to doat upon this one; but he still frequented
the taverns, and she was often left without his society
or guidance.
They had been four months married when Gesche
met Gottfried, her future husband, at a ball; and from
that day all her wishes were directed towards him.—
She now began to colour her cheeks with rouge; hours
were spent before her glass, and from her toilet she
hurried to her kitchen window, and remained there
to see him pass to his counting room; but Gottfried
took no notice of her.
It was about this period, namely in September 1807,
that her first child was born. About the same time
Miltenberg became acquainted with one Kassou, who
used very frequently to visit him, and who soon con
ceived a liking for his wife, which Gesche did not
leave unreturned. Their intimacy always continued
to increase, and presents passed between them.—
Gesche was desirous to present to Kassou a breastpin
enclosing a lock of her hair, but did not well know
how to express a note which she wished to send along
with it. She, therefore, applied to Miltenberg, tel
ling him that she wished to make a present to one of
her female friends, and requesting him to write a note
to be sent along with it, which he accordingly did.—
This she copied and sent to Kassou along with the
pin.
In 1808 she had a still-born child, and after her
confinement began, on account of her thin appearance,
to wear not fewer than thirteen pairs of stays, to im
5*
50 <3. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
prove her form. This was not discovered till her ar .
restment. She now began to be tired of Miltenberg;
calumniating him to her parents, and directing her
passions sometimes to Gottfried and sometimes towards
Kassou. She was obliged to sell several articles
of household furniture to pay some of her secret
debts, telling her husband she wanted the money to
send to her brother, who was then a soldier in the
army of Napoleon, and representing to her mother
that her husband had sold them.
In 1810 she had another child, and had no sooner
recovered from her confinement, than, being short of
money, she resolved to open her husband's desk.—
To accomplish this she pretended to have lost one of
her own keys, and sent for a smith to get the desk
opened; she observed narrowly how he proceeded,
and after he was gone went and opened it and abstract
ed ten dollars. Not content with this, she proceeded
afterwards to open the desk of a gentlemen who lodg
ed in her house, and took away ninety dollars. She
remained, however, unsuspected, and a favourite with
all her acquaintances; and was for some time cured of
stealing by a fright which she got by a very narrow
search being made on the desks being broken open.
Her passion for Gottfried increased more and more,
and the habits and sickness of her husband gave them
many opportunities of meeting. Her husband was
intimate with Gottfried, and used to have him very
often at his house. But her passion was not confined
to Gottfried, it extended also to Kassou; and the ne
cessity of keeping her love for the one concealed from
the other brought her into many petty scrapes. Her
fourth child was born in 1813.
Miltenberg was still in her way. She had never
O. M. GOTTFKIED, MURDERER. 51
loved him, and now that he crossed her path she be
gan to wish him dead, that she might give free vent
to her passion for Gottfried. Miltenberg's father had
lately died, and she had observed nothing particularly
fearful in death, so that by degrees she accustomed
herself to the thought of Miltenberg dying. As he
was always in bad health, she began to think that, as
his life was only an incumbrance to himself, and an
impediment to her, it would be no great sin to help
him out of the world. In this state of mind she went
to a fortune-teller, who prophesied that her whole
family would die before her. She knew that her
mother had some arsenic which she kept for poison
ing mice. She accordingly went to her, and saying
that she was troubled with mice in her house, asked
if she knew of any means of destroying them, pre
tending that she knew nothing of poison. Her
mother put some arsenic on bread, and placed it in
the room said to be infested with mice, warning her
daughter at the same time to keep the apartment lock
ed for fear of mischief to the children. A day or two
after this, Gesche went into the room and took away
the poison, which she scratched from the bread as if
the mice had taken it, with the intention of giving it
to Miltenberg. Some time afterwards her mother
said that she would go and see if the mice had taken
the poison. "Oh yes!" exclaimed the daughter, "pray
bring me some more;" which her mother did.
She was now in possession of the means of death,
but could not for several weeks bring herself to the
resolution of administering it to her husband.
At last she gave him some, one morning, to breakfast,
and afterwards another dose in some water gruel.—
She could not, however, approach the bed of the sick
52 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
man; it appeared to her as if he knew that she was
his murderer; but this was far from being the case, as
he recommended her to Gottfried before he died.—
The corpse was dreadfully swollen, but no suspicion
was excited.
After Miltenberg's death she received an offer of
marriage; but her thoughts being directed to Gottfried,
she refused it. Her parents suspecting this to be the
cause of her refusal, told her that her marriage with
Gottfried should never take place with their consent.
Gottfried loved her, but did not wish to marry a per
son with children. She now again consulted a for
tune teller, and received the same answer. Thus, al
though she had got quit of her husband, there still re
mained serious obstacles to her union with Gottfried;
first her father and mother, and then her children.—
She hoped also to get possession, by the death of her
children, of a legacy of about 650 dollars left them by
old Miltenberg.
In April 1815, her mother was rather unwell, and
came to live in her house, when she (Gesche) hap
pening to light upon the packet of arsenic, part of
which she had saved and locked up, it immediately
occurred to her to poison her mother. As her mother
seemed likely to recover, she gave her the poison in
her favourite beverage of lemonade; and while mixing
it, she burst into loud laughter, so that she shuddered
at herself; but it instantly occurred to her, that God
made her laugh as a sign that her mother would soon
be laughing in heaven. A witness afterwards said
that she appeared happy at her mother's death.
Death now followed death with fearful rapidity.—
The very first day after her mother's burial, Gesche
was sitting in a room with her second youngest child
tt. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 53
on her knee; the thought of poisoning it occurred to
her, and without hesitating a moment, she administer
ed to the child some arsenic on a piece of the cake
which had been presented at the burial of its grand
mother. This was on the 10th of May, and on the
18th, without the least remorse, she poisoned her
eldest child. In the agony of death it clasped its
arms round the mother's neck, but Gesche remained
unmoved. Two weeks afterwards, she poisoned her
father. About ten weeks after these events, while her
son was sitting on her knee, he asked her why God
took away all her children? This pierced her to the
heart, and she immediately resolved that he also
should die.
Thus in the short interval between May and Sep
tember, she murdered both her parents and her child
ren. But the death of so many in so short a space of
time, naturally excited some suspicion, and to silence
this, she was advised by her friends to have the body
of the child opened. This she readily consented to,
and the child was declared to have died of inflammation
of the bowels.
In this manner, as she thought, was every obstacle
to her marriage with Gottfried removed, but Gottfried
himself did not show any particular desire to marry
her, although he liked her company; and so the win
ter of 1815-16 passed free from murder. It was on
a Saturday in May, 1816, that her brother returned
home a cripple and in rags, having lost the use of his
feet in the Russian campaign. Here, then, might be
another obstacle to her marriage; at all events, he
must share her father's property with her. This was
motive enough for his death. As already mentioned,
he arrived on Saturday, or, as some say, on Friday
54 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
after a long absence; he was poisoned on Sunday, and,
to avoid suspicion, she passed a great part of the time
at his bedside. On every occasion, she had the pre
caution to employ a different physician. Seldom or
never did any of them attend two of her patients.
Another obstacle, however, arose; Gottfried would
not marry her. But this also she overcame, by the
interest of some of his friends. His original refusal
had hurt her, and she began to dislike him, and came
to the resolution of poisoning him also. But she
thought him rich, and therefore determined at all
events, first to marry him, in order to be made his
heir, and then to execute her purpose. One Monday
morning, she and Gottfried had resolved to make a
pleasure party to a little distance out of town; and
she seized this opportunity of poisoning him, that his
sickness might appear the more unexpected. While
he was on his death-bed, she sent for a priest to marry
them, so that she might make sure of the property.—
Thus had she poisoned father, mother, brother, and
children, in order to be put in possession of Gott
fried, and at length we find him also in the list of her
victims.
She seemed now to delight in murder, and the
slightest cause was sufficient to decide upon the life
or death of any of her relations. She was disappoint
ed, however, as to Gottfried's riches, for, instead of
wealth, he left her debt, and it required all her Se-
cretiveness to conceal her disappointment.
Now that she was alone, she occasionally felt se
verely the loss of her children; often when she
thought of them, she shut herself up in her garret,
and wept bitterly. She carefully avoided schools,
and every place where children were to be met; and
G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 55
seemed to be particularly conscientious in paying off
the debts of Gottfried. She loved money, not so
much for its own sake, as because it afforded her the
means of making a figure among her acquaintances,
and so of gratifying her vanity.
Yet in spite of all these murders, she was not un
happy; she became acquainted with H , (the name
is not given,) and in his company forgot all her sins,
and, in her own words, believed herself the happiest
in the world. She rejoiced in her reputation, espe
cially as, after the death of Gottfried, she again imme
diately received an offer of marriage, which she re
fused. She had one child by Gottfried, begotten be
fore marriage. We find at this period another in
stance of her hypocrisy; some one requested from her
the loan of sermons, which she delivered, with the
request that great care of them should be taken, as
they were the only means by which she was able to
sustain so many judgments. She never read any of
them. Whenever she attempted to read the Bible,
she thought the perusal of it of no use, and immedi
ately closed the book.
She was now often ill supplied with money, but al
ways found means of borrowing; often obtaining it from
one in order to pay another. After the death of Gott
fried, she seems to have rested for some years from
her murders, and during that time to have had little to
occupy her mind except the care of preserving her re
putation untainted. In 1822 she went to Stade to
spend a few weeks with some friends. Here, before
she was aware, her money failed her; she was too
proud to own it, and could get none from home; she
knew no person from whom she might borrow, and
had recourse to falsehood. She broke the key of her
56 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
drawer in the lock, threw it way, and then raised an
alarm that somebody had stolen her money out of the
drawer. The drawer was forced open, and no money
appeared, and nothing could be more obvious than that
she had been robbed. Being obliged to take an oath
before a magistrate that this was the case, she did not
scruple to commit perjury; after which she got a sup
ply of money from her friends.
From time to time she received offers of marriage,
all of which she turned to good account, by extorting
money from her admirers. She was reputed rich, and
in this belief her admirers readily yielded to her re
quests.
One of them, named Zimmermann, was thus induc
ed to advance her very considerable sums, which she
repaid with a great shew of tenderness. She was be
trothed to him, but he too was doomed to swell the
list of her victims; after extracting all the booty in her
power, she poisoned him by degrees, that she might
have an opportunity of shewing her tenderness to him
during his sickness, and thus lull suspicion. By his
death she was free of the money due to him, which he
had advanced on her word alone, without taking a le
gal obligation.
She now began to poison her acquaintances, without
any visible motive:—a ehild came to congratulate her
on her birth-day, and received a dose on a piece of
biscuit: a friend called one forenoon, and also received
a dose; and she tried the strength of her poison on an
other of her friends, on whose face it caused blotches
f
to appear.
She gave a dose to one of her lodgers, that, during
his sickness, she might plunder his pantry. Zimmer
mann had a cousin named Kleine, in Hanover, from
G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 57
whom she succeeded in borrowing 800 dollars, but he
became impatient for repayment, and she had only 300
to give him. In this predicament she set out for Han
over, with the intention of poisoning Kleine, thinking
by his death to gain delay. She accomplished her end,
and after his death affirmed that she had given him a
double Louis d'or the day before he died; but the
whole story was a falsehood. She committed also
several other murders for purely selfish ends, but the
soul sickens in reporting them.
She was now often in want of money, and therefore
could not keep up a large establishment, so that she
was obliged to sell her house to a person named
Rumpff, at the same time reserving a room or two for
herself. Rumpff was fond of her, and used to call her
aunt, but he had not been more than eight weeks in
the house when his wife died, and he himself fell into
bad health. He could do nothing but run about
searching the whole house, from the garret to the cel
lar, for the cause of his trouble.
It chanced that he kept a pig; and wishing to have it
killed, he sent for a butcher for that purpose. The
butcher, with the view of pleasing him, brought to his
room a choice bit of the pork, of which Rumpff par
took, putting the remainder into his pantry. On the
morrow he went to cut a slice from it, but he was
surprised to find it in a different position from that in
which he had left it the day before, and he perceived
also that it was covered with a white powder. This
excited his suspicions; he had the substance examined,
and detected poison. . Gesche's motive for this crime
was to endeavour to regain possession of her house.
She was arrested on suspicion.
The work before us, from which these particulars
6
58 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
have been derived, gives no account of the trial or ex
ecution, which, as we are informed, is reserved for a
separate publication; but it mentions that, in prison,
she was tormented by dreams, in which she saw her
victims sitting in the churchyard beckoning to her;
and she was often so much afraid, that, immediately on
awakening, she could not remain longer in bed.
The following judgment was pronounced by the
High Courtof Bremen, on the 17th September, 1830:—
"The Court of Justice, in terms of the law, and af
ter the inquiries have been conducted according to the
decree of the 22d May last, find the widow of Michael
Christopher Gottfried, Gesche Margarethe, formerly
Timm, accused of poisoning, and of several other of
fences, to be guilty of the following crimes, as proven,
besides several robberies, frauds, and perjuries, and
attempted abortion of her offspring, viz.
"1. To have poisoned both her parents, her three
children, her first and second husbands, her suitor
Paul Thomas Zimmermann, Anne Lucie Meyerholtz,
Johann Mosees, the wife of Johann Rumpff otherwise
Mentz, the wife of Frederic Schmidt otherwise Cor
nelius, and Frederick Kleine of Hanover; and also
to have caused the death of Eliza, the daughter of the
said Schmidt, by poison, although this is not proven to
have been intentional.
"2. Several times to have given poison to the said
Johann Rumpff, with the intention of killing him, and
thereby causing to him a severe illness.
"3. To have given poison to several other indivi
duals, without any proven intention, but which was
more or less injurious to their health.
"The Court of Justice, therefore, according to the
penal code, Art. 130, and taking into consideration the
O. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 59
milder principles of the present usages of the law,
condemn the accused, the widow of Michael Christo
pher Gottfried, as her well merited punishment, and
to serve as a warning to others, to death by the sword,
and entrusts to the criminal court the execution and
publication of the sentence, and also the adoption of all
necessary measures: all the expenses caused by the
inquiries, judgment and punishment, to be paid from
the funds which she leaves, so far as they shall be suf
ficient."
Observations on the preceding Narrative.
The foregoing details aie literally translated from
the German work named in the title of this article,
and are perfectly authentic. The first impression re
ceived from them is that of astonishment, almost be
wilderment of judgment. We felt it difficult at first
to believe in the existence of such a being as G. M.
Gottfried. The facts to be accounted for are, how for
twenty years she could display so many attractions as to
procure her lover after lover; so much refinement and
urbanity as to be received into the society of the mid
dle ranks in Bremen, and treated with respect, and so
much affection as to lull all suspicion of her having
any hand in the numerous deaths which occurred in
her family; and how, with all this exterior of morali
ty, she could be internally a perfect Blue-Beard in
relentless cruelty; or ten times worse than Blue-Beard,
when it is considered that father, mother, brother, hus
band, children, and lover, all fell victims to her bar
barity. Our first impression was, that she must have
laboured under a diseased Destructiveness, or mono-
maniacal thirst for blood; but she murdered each vic
tim deliberately for a purpose, and this excludes the
60 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
idea of disease. Besides, during twenty years, the
propensity must have shewn itself ungovernable in
other parts of her conduct, which it does not appear
to have done. The combination of the organs, there
fore, must explain the character; and after the mind is
able coolly to survey the development and actions, it
does so consistently and clearly. The first fact to be
accounted for, is the existence of a very considerable
outward morality, which deceived the world for so
long a period, and averted suspicion of crime. Ac
cordingly, we find large Philoprogenitiveness, Secret-
iveness, Love of Approbation, Veneration, with aver
age Conscientiousness and Intellect. These faculties
presented to the world that outward aspect of amiable -
ness which deceived them for so long; but the next
fact is the co-existence of these qualities, along with a
deliberate savageness of disposition that spared neither
age nor sex, when they stood in the way of her selfish
enjoyments; and accordingly, the brain exhibits an
enormously large organ of Destructiveness, with a
very deficient Benevolence. This combination ap
pears to have rendered its possessor almost a hyena or
tiger in her dispositions. Gottfried lamented the death
of her children, because her large Philopregenitive-
ness suffered under the bereavement of its objects; but
she was gay and happy after the murder of her other
victims. Her Benevolence was so deficient, and her
Destructiveness so large, that she seems to have felt a
murder to be as much in harmony with her feelings,
as a tiger does the death of a buffalo on which it means
to feed. This is a case which we could not have con
ceived except by the aid of Phrenology. It appears to
be an example of what might be called moral insanity,
arising from excessive development of one organ, and.
G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER. 61
great deficiency of another; and the observations of
Dr. Crawford, on the case of E. S., recorded in Vol.
vi. p. 147, of this Journal, appear remarkably appli
cable to it. They are as follows:
"I have a few remarks to make on the second of the
lunatics, lettered E. S. You observe in your own
notes, 'I am surprised he was not executed before he
became insane.' This would lead to the supposition,
that he had been afflicted with some form of insanity
in addition to a naturally depraved character. Such,
however, is by no means the case; he never was differ
ent from what he now is; he has never evinced the
slightest mental incoherence on any one point, nor any
kind of hallucination. It is one of those cases where
there is great difficulty in drawing the line between
extreme moral depravity and insanity, and in decid
ing at what point an individual should cease to be con
sidered as a responsible moral agent, and amenable
to the laws. The governors and medical gentlemen
of the Asylum have often had doubts whether they
were justified in keeping E. S. as a lunatic, thinking
him a more fit object for a bridewell. He appears,
however, so totally callous with regard to every moral
principle and feeling—so thoroughly unconscious of
ever having done any thing wrong—so completely
destitute of all sense of shame or remorse when re
proved for his vices or crime—and has proved himself
so utterly incorrigible throughout life, that it is almost
certain that any jury before whom he might be brought
would satisfy their doubts by returning him insane,
which in such a case is the most humane line to pur
sue. He was dismissed several times from the Asy
lum, and sent there the last time for attempting to poi-
|on his father, and it seems fit he should be kept there
6*
62 G. M. GOTTFRIED, MURDERER.
for life as a moral lunatic; but there has never been
the least symptom of diseased action of the brain, which
is the general concomitant of what is usually under
stood as insanity. This I consider might with pro
priety be made the foundation for a division of lunatics
into two great classes; those who were insane from
original constitution, and never were otherwise, and
those who had been insane at some period of life from
diseased action of the brain, either permanent or in
termittent."
ARTICLE II.
[From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. SI, 1832.]
CASES OF WILLIAMS AND BISHOP, MURDERERS.
These men were lately executed in London for
murder, committed to gain money by the sale of dead
bodies to teachers of anatomy. The following account
of their cerebral development, read by Dr. Elliotson
to the Phrenological Society of London, appeared in
the Lancet of 14th January, 1832. The editor of the
Lancet has kindly sent us the cuts with which the
developments are illustrated.
"It is not any individual action," says Dr. Elliotson,
"but the general character and talents of a man placed
under known external circumstances, which Phre
nology points out. The size and form of the cranium
are the same the day before a man commits a murder—
when he is no murderer,—as the day after he has
committed it—when he is a murderer. But the judg
ment of the phrenologist who inspects his head on
both days must be the same. If Williams and Bishop
had accidentally died before they turned murderers,
the character given of their heads by phrenologists
would have been the same as now.
"The characters of the two criminals in question
are well known. Their conduct originated not from
morbid excitement, nor any diseased condition of the
brain. It arose, not from any momentary impulse,
but was deliberate and settled. We have, therefore,
WILLIAMS.
WILLIAMS AND BISHOP, MURDERERS. 65
a right to expect their organization to be in perfect
harmony with their lives. And so it is.
The head of Williams ie by far the worse. The
intellectual portion is very small—exceedingly low;
the moral portion is equally wretched—exceedingly
low; while that devoted to the animal propensities—
the lower-posterior and lower-lateral parts, especially
Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, Secretiveness,—is
immense.
"The relation of the developments of the organs to
each other is as follows:—
Amativeness, very large. Love ofApprobation, large.
Philoprogenitiveness, moderate. Cautiousness, very large.
Inhabitiveness, moderate. Benevolence, very small.
Adhesiveness, large. Veneration, very small.
Combativeness, very large. Hope, very small.
Constructiveness, small. Conscientiousness, very small.
Acquisitiveness, very large. Ideality, small.
Destructiveness, very large. Firmness, small.
Secretiveness, very large. Knowing faculties, large.
Self-esteem, full. Intellectualfaculties, small.
With such a deficiency of moral sentiment, of Be
nevolence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness,—with
such a deficiency of intellectual strength, and with
such a deficiency of Ideality, or the sense of what is
refined and exquisite in nature and art; and, on the
other hand, with such a superabundance of desire,
Covetiveness, Destructiveness, &c. there is no won
der that his whole life was low and villanous. We
are informed, that so dissipated were his habits, that
he left his occupation of a bricklayer, and associated
with thieves and blackguards, and nearly ruined his
mother; that he was frequently in custody on charges
of felony; that he was sentenced to transportation
66 WILLIAMS AND BISHOP, MURDERERS.
seven years ago for stealing; that he turned body-
snatcher, broke into houses to steal corpses, and at
last, for mere expedition, without the persuasion of
any one, did not hesitate to murder his fellow crea
tures, for the sake of selling their bodies.
"In Bishop, the forehead slopes considerably, and
is narrow,—the intellectual portion is wretched; the
superior portion—that dedicated to the moral senti
ments, is low (lower than it appears, on account of
the hair not having been shaved off there, like that of
Williams, previously to taking the cast, and having
become matted with the plaster,) and it is particularly
narrow; while the lower-lateral portions are large,
Covetiveness particularly so. Combativeness or cou
rage is very small. The whole head is much smaller
than that of Williams.
"The relative proportionof the organs stands thus:—
Amativeness, large. Love ofApprobation, full.
Philoprogenitiveness, large. Cautiousness, moderate.
Inhabitiveness, moderate. Benevolence, small.
Adhesiveness, moderate. Veneration, moderate.
Combativeness, small.. Hope, small.
Destructiveness, large. Ideality, small.
Constructiveness, moderate. Conscientiousness, very smalt.
Acquisitiveness, very large. Firmness, small.*
Secretiveness, large. Knowing faculties, large.
Self-esteem, large. Intellectual/acuities, very small.
"The preponderance of the lower feelings over the
superior, and over the intellect and Ideality, are like
wise in accordance with Bishop's character. The
smaller size of the head agrees with the fact, that
Williams led Bishop into the course of crime which
caused the forfeit of his life; for it is said that, after
♦This organ appears from the drawings to be large.—Editor.
WILLIAMS AND BISHOP, MURDERERS.
BISHOP.
68 WILLIAMS AND BISHOP, MURDERERS.
pursuing the trade of body-snatching for some time,
Williams thought of saving trouble, by killing people
as they were wanted, and induced Bishop to join him
in this improvement. From this circumstance, and
the greater villany and daring of Williams' character,
I had no difficulty for a single moment, when I first
saw the casts, in pronouncing which was the head of
Williams and which of Bishop. The large develop
ment of the organ of Acquisitiveness, with the small
development of that of Conscientiousness, and of the
moral sentiments at large, accord with the account
given us of Bishop being always ready to perjure
himself for the sake of gain, and to cheat in every
way; the smallness of Combativeness equally agrees
with the account of his being a sneaking villain—an
arrant coward.
"For the sake of contrast, I beg the Society to con
template the head of a character distinguished for his
intellect and nobleness, that of Dr. Gall."
WILLIAMS AND BISHOP, MURDERERS. 69
Thus far Dr. Elliotson. We refer our readers to
the account of Burk and Hare, executed at Edinburg
for similar crimes—[see next article.] The striking
similarity in development between them and Williams
and Bishop, will be apparent to the most unpractised
observer. ■ In short, there is no fact in Phrenology
better established, than the great and preponderating
development of the organs of the animal propensities,
situated in the base and back part of the brain, and
the relatively small development of the moral organs
in deliberate and atrocious criminals. This fact goes
deep into questions of moral and legal responsibility;
and it must necessarily lead to important practical re
sults. The present cases afford apt illustrations of
the doctrines expounded by Dr. Caldwell in the first
article of this number.
7
ARTICLE III.
[From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. 20, 1829.]
PHRENOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE CERE
BRAL DEVELOPMENT OF WILLIAM BURK, EXE
CUTED FOR MURDER AT EDINBURG, ON 28th
JANUARY, 1829, AND ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF
WILLIAM HARE, HIS ACCOMPLICE.
Read to the Phrenological Society, 5th February, 1829.
The recollection of the horrors which used to har
row up our youthful minds in perusing the story of
Blue-Beard, had waxed faint in most of us as we ad
vanced in life, from the belief that they were pure
fictions of imagination, which could never be realized
in actual existence, when the murders of Burk and
Hare suddenly exhibited to us cruelty surpassing that
of the bloody hero of the fairy-tale, and a deliberate,
calculating selfishness far exceeding even his imagined
atrocities. The public mind was carried away by a
whirlwind of astonishment and abhorrence. Day
after day, and week after week, the press literally
groaned under a weight of excited feeling; its industry
was intense to collect details, and its eloquence fervid
in giving expression to the emotions which they elici
ted. Burk appeared as a monster without prototype,
and, we may hope, will long remain without a parallel.
At length he has expiated his crimes on the scaffold;
but still the emotions excited by his crimes and his
punishment continue to rage like a tempest, which
BURK AMD HARE, MURDERERS. 71
we may hope has attained its maximum, but which
has made little progress in abatement. Reason has
scarcely yet returned sufficiently to the public mind
to enable it to look calmly on the subject; and, accord
ingly, an eloquent declamation on the monstrous
atrocities of this wretched criminal would be more
palatable to the general taste than an account which
should "nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in
malice.".
Phrenology, however, like every other system of
natural truth, is an unbending science. It does not
accommodate its responses to the varying prejudices
of men, but gives them impartially, according to what
it finds in the brain. After the whole facts of any
particular case have become known, and the transac
tions have been tried at the bar of reason, its decisions
have been acquiesced in as sound by intelligent and
unbiassed inquirers, who sought only after truth. In
the case of Thurtell, for instance, it was first asserted
that Phrenology was overturned, because he had no
Destructiveness. The publication of the cast refuted
this objection by showing a large organ of Destruc
tiveness. It was next objected that Phrenology was
overturned because Thurtell had a large Benevolence.
To this it was replied that Thurtell in his life had
manifested great kindness and even generosity of dis
position; bestowing, as one example, his last half-sov
ereign on an individual more wretched' than himself;
and that the correct statement was, that Thurtell's
large Benevolence had not proved adequate to restrain
his larger Destructiveness, excited as the latter was,
and neutralized as the former was, by the swindling
transactions at .\play .which he conceived Weare to
have practised Alport him. This answer was not ad-
72 BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
mitted by the public at the time as sufficient; they
held that, unless Thurtell's head had been all com
posed of Destructiveness, and of nothing else, Phre
nology was refuted. * But this was the mere way
wardness of ignorant prejudice. At the present time,
no sensible man, who. peruses the unequivocal testi
monies of Thurtell' having manifested the kindlier
feelings of our nature, as well as the fiercer traits of
it, will say that Phrenology is refuted, because organs
for both sets of feelings were found developed in his
brain.
Time is doing its part with Phrenology as with
every tiling else. The public mind has now become
more familiarized . with it, and, from perceiving it
steadily advancing and extending after countless pre
dictions of its downfall, is disposed to view it with
diminished aversion, and a . larger portion of reason
and impartiality is brought to the consideration of its
evidence. After these preliminary observations, we
enter on an examination of the character and develop
ment of Burk, without experiencing either difficulty
or hesitation.
There are two classes of criminals,—those who are
habitually violent, and those who are tolerably virtu
ous till excited by temptation. Bellingham was ha
bitually fierce, passionate and unreasonable, and in
his head Destructiveness is very large, and Benevo
lence and Intellect small. M'Kean, who murdered
the Lanark carrier, was for a long time a tolerably
respectable man,—a leading member of a dissenting
congregation, and much attached to his wife. His
head presents great Combativeness and Destructive
ness, with considerable Benevolence. Tardy, the
Spanish pirate, whose murders* for number, coolness.
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 73
and deliberation, approached somewhat near to Burk's,
possessed a calm exterior, and had conducted himself
with some degree of propriety during several years
of his life; and the same combination of large Com-
bativeness and Destructiveness, with some portion of
Benevolence, occurs also in him. It is a principle of
philosophy, which holds equally in mental as in physi
cal science, that ex nihilo nihil fit, or that something
never comes out of nothing. If, then, Burk was in
tensely selfish, a correct exposition of his character
must exhibit the selfish principles strong in his nature;
if he was atrociously murderous, the element of Des
tructiveness must appear; but if Burk actually mani
fested also some portion of attachment, of kindness,
and of honesty, the elements of these better feelings
must likewise have existed in his mind. To discover
the real character of this extraordinary man, let us
attend briefly to his history.
"William Burk,* whose crimes have condemned
him to an ignominious death on the scaffold, describes
himself, in his judicial declaration, emitted before the
Sheriff-substitute of Edinburgshire, in relation to
* This account is taken from a history of Burk and his associ
ates, published by Thomas Ireland, junior. It contains the fol
lowing statement prefixed to the Life of Burk:—
"We can pledge ourselves that every circumstance that is here
narrated has been obtained from such sources as to leave no doubt
of its authenticity. It will be seen, that, while this memoir is a
great deal fuller than any one that has appeared, it is also dissimi
lar in many particulars to the disjointed fragments that have been
from time to time published. How these have been obtained, we
cannot say; but we can aver, that this account has been received
from sources which may be relied on, and much of it from the un
happy man himself; indeed, so much as to entitle us to. say that it
is almost his own account."
7*
74 BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
the cause for which he was tried, as being thirty-six
years of age. He was born in the parish of Orrey,
near Strabane, county of Tyrone, in Ireland, about
the year 1792. His parents were poor, but industri
ous and respectable in their station, which was that of
cottiers, occupying, like the most of the peasantry of
Ireland, a small piece of ground. The Irish are re
markable for the avidity with which they seek educa
tion for their children, under circumstances in which
it is not easily attainable. The parents of Burk seem
to have been actuated by this laudable desire, as both
William and his brother Constantine must have recei
ved the elements of what, in their condition, may be
called a good education, and superior to what usually
falls to the lot of children in their rank in Ireland.—
He was educated in the Roman Catholic faith, which
he has ever since nominally adhered to, though with
little observance of its doctrines or ceremonies. He
is by no means, however, a person of the brutal igno
rance or stupid indifference that his callously continu
ing in a course of unparalleled wickedness, apparent
ly without compunction, would betoken. He has
sinned deeply, but it has not been altogether against
knowledge, as he could at times put on a semblance
of devotion; and during the fits of hypocrisy, or, it
may be, starts of better feeling, before he became so
miserably depraved, his conversation was that of a
man by no means ignorant of the truths of Christianity,
and such even as to lead some to imagine him seriously
concerned about his eternal salvation. During one
of these temporary ebullitions about five years ago,
he became an attendant on a prayer-meeting held on
the Sabbath evenings in the Grassmarket. He was
for some time remarked as one of its most regular and
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 75
intelligent members. He never omitted one of its
meetings, and expressed much regret when it was
discontinued. As a Catholic, he was considered won
derfully free from prejudice, frankly entering into dis
cussions upon the doctrines of his church, or those of
other sects, with whose tenets he showed some ac
quaintance.
"He read the Scriptures, particularly the New
Testament, and other religious books, and discussed
their merits. • On a Sabbath especially, though he
never attended a place. of worship, he was seldom to
be seen without a Bible, or some book of devotion, in
his hands." " ■
When at school, he was distinguished as an apt
scholar, a cleanly, active, good-looking boy; and though
his parents were strict Catholics, he was taken into
the service of a Presbyterian clergyman, in whose
house he resided for a considerable time. He was re
commended by the minister to a gentleman in Stra-
bane, in whose employment he remained for several
years.
Here, then, is evidence of Burk having in his youth
possessed some intellectual acuteness, and having been
active, cleanly, and well-behaved for a considerable
numbers of years; or, in other words, at this period of
his life he manifested intellect and moral sentiment.
He subsequently tried the trade of a baker, at which
he continued only for five months. He thereafter be
came a linen-weaver; but soon got disgusted with the
close application that was essential to earn a livelihood
at that poorly-paid, irksome employment, and he en
listed in the Donegal militia. He was selected by an
officer as his servant, and we are told that he demean
ed himself with fidelity and propriety. While in the
76 BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
army, he married a woman in Ballinha, in the county
of Mayo; and after seven years' service, the regiment
was disbanded, and he went home to his wife. He
shortly .afterwards obtained the situation of groom and
body-servant to a gentleman in that vicinity, with
whom he remained three years.
"Burk was remarked to be of a very social and
agreeable disposition, with a great turn for raillery and
jocularity, and what from his after-proceedings could
scarcely have been supposed, was distinguished not
only as a man of peculiarly quiet and inoffensive man
ners, but even as evincing a great degree of humani
ty.'*
"He states, that while in Ireland, his mind was un
der the influence of religious impressions, and that he
was accustomed to read his catechism and his prayer-
book, and to attend to his duties."
Again the observation presents itself, that Burk,
during this period of his life, manifested dispositions
decidedly superior to those which marked the close of
his career with so' dark a stain.
He subsequently came to work at the Union Canal
in Scotland, and there formed an acquaintance with
the woman M'Dougall, who became remarkably fond
of him, deserted her parental roof for his society, and
attached herself to him, partaking of his various for
tunes during the last ten years of his life. It is men
tioned that Burk treated her with kindness, and ac
knowledged her as his wife, and that she was passion
ately fond of him in return.
"During the work on the canal, he had been noted
among the other labourers as of a particularly handy,
active turn, and skilful in cobbling, in a rude way, his
own and the shoes of his acquaintances."—Afterwards,
BURK AND HAHE, MURDERERS. 77
"He lodged in the house of an Irishman named Mi
chael, or more commonly Mikey Culzean, in the West
Port, who kept a lodging-house for beggars and va
grants, similar to the one which Here's crime has
made so familiar to the public,—in the language of the
classes who frequent them,—a beggars'1 hold.
"Many will probably recollect of a fire happening
in one of these abodes of wretchedness about six
years ago, when incredible numbers emerged from the
miserable hovels. In this conflagration Mikey's dwell
ing suffered, and Burk and M'Dougall escaped from
the flames nearly naked, and with the loss of all the
little property they possessed. Some charitable indi
viduals contributed to procure clothes and necessaries
for the sufferers, and they received some relief by the
hands of the Rev. Dr. Dickson, one of the ministers
of the parish. By this disaster he lost his library; and
though it is somewhat surprising to hear at all of a
collection of books under such circumstances, it is not
the less so when the names of some of the works are
mentioned. Among them were, Ambrose's Looking
unto Jesus, Boston's Human Nature in its Fourfold
State, the Pilgrim's Progress, and Booth's Reign of
Grace. His landlord afterwards took a room in
Brown's Close, Grassmarket, where Burk also again
went as a.lodger.
"It was at this time that he attended the religious
meeting we have previously mentioned, which was
held in the next apartment to the one in which he
lodged. During his attendance he was always per
fectly decorous in his deportment, and when engaged
in worship had an air of great seriousness and devo-
ion. The conductor and frequenters of it had form
erly been subjected to much obloquy, and even yio
78 BUKK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
lence, from the Catholics who abounded in that neigh
bourhood; and one evening, after Burk's attendance on
it, his landlord, Mikey Culzean, attempted to create
annoyance,, by breaking through some sheets of paper
which were used to cover up an old window, and cry
ing out i» -a voice of derision, 'that the performance
was just going to begin.' .Burk expressed himself in
indignant terms on the occasion, saying, that it .was
shameful and unworthy of a man to behave in such a
manner.
"From the general aversion to the meeting so une
quivocally manifested by the Catholics, and Burk be
ing universally known to belong to that persuasion,
his frequent attendance on it, and reverential beha
viour, excited the more notice. It was usual for him
to remain conversing with the individual in whose
house they assembled after the others had dispersed;
and on these occasions the subjects that had occupied
their attention during the service naturally were often
talked o.ver. His conversation was generally such as
to show that he had been attentive to what was pass
ing, and comprehended the topics brought under his
notice.
"During his residence in this neighbourhood, he
gave no indications of any thing that would lead peo
ple to anticipate his future enormities. He was in
dustrious and serviceable, inoffensive and playful in
his manner, and was never observed to drink to ex
cess. He was very fond of music and singing, in
which he excelled, and during his melancholy moods
was most frequently found chanting some favourite
plaintive air. All these qualifications, and his oblig
ing manner, joined to a particularly jocular quizzical
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 79
character, with an interminable fund of low humour
and drollery, rendered him a general favourite."
Being reduced to much wretchedness and poverty,
Burk and M'Dougall lodged for a few nights in Hare's
hou?e, and during his stay, a fellow-lodger died,
whose body was sold by Hare and Burk for dissection.
At this point, his career of atrocious villany commen
ced.. The price of the body being expended, Burk
decoyed a woman into Hare's den, murdered her, and
sold her body. He and Hare repeated similar trage
dies sixteen times during the course of a year, till at
last they were detected.
Nothing can exceed the intense selfishness, cold
blooded cruelty, and calculating villany of these
transactions; and if the organs of Selfishness and De-
structiveness be not found in Burk, it would be as an
omalous as if no organs were found for the better
qualities which he had previously displayed.
Phrenology is the only science of mind which con
tains elements and principles capable of accounting for
such a character as that before us, and it does so in a
striking manner.
The drawings on the next page are made by Mr.
Joseph, with the camera lucida, from accurate casts
taken without the hair. The cast of the Rev. Mr. M.
represents the development generally found when the
dispositions are naturally virtuous. His history is
given in the Phrenological Transactions, p. 310; [in
serted in this volume;] and the profile is presented as
a contrast to those of Burk and Hare.*
The following measurement and development of
Burk were taken by an experienced Phrenologist
* A profile view affords, in a case like this, an imperfect means
of comparison. G. H. C.
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 81
from the living head,* and compared with an accurate
cast taken without the hair by Mr. Joseph after the
execution. We have also received a report from a
medical gentleman who saw the brain dissected. The
measurements and development are as follows:—
MEASUREMENTS.
Inches.
Spine to Individuality, 8
Concentrativeness to Comparison, 7 3-8.,
Ear to Occipital Spine, . 4 4-8
— to Individuality, 5 2-8
— to Firmness, . 5 7-8
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, .... 6 3-8
Secretiveness to Secretiveness, 6 2-8
Ideality to Ideality, -...46-8
Constructiveness to Constructiveness, .... 5 2-8
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, 5 6-8
Note.—Burk was muscular; and in the cast with the hair shaven,
taken after death, the measurement at Destructiveness, owing to
the swelling of the integuments, is two-eighths of an inch larger
than the measurement taken during life. The necessary abate
ment has been made in stating the development.
DEVELOPMENT.
Amativeness, large. Concentrativeness, rather full.
Philoprogenitivencss, rather Adhesiveness, full,
large.' Combativeness, full.
* A measurement and development self-styled "Phrenological,"
differing from ours, was published in the Edinburg newspapers,
and copied into other journals. We understand that Mr. Stone is
the author of it; and we notice it only to remark, that it ought to
have been called an ant!phrenological development; for it was ob
viously published for the purpose of opposition, and it is inaccur
ate, like the other antiphrenological evidences of that gentleman.
In antiphrenological reports measurements are foundedon as ifthey
afforded evidence of the development of particular organs, , We
give them merely as indicative of the general size of the* head.
See Combe's System of Phrenology, p. 41, and Elements, 3d Edi
tion, p. 151.
8
S5J BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
Destructiveness, very large. Form, rather large.
Constructiveness, full. Size, rather large.
Acquisitiveness, rather large. Weight, ditto.
Secretiveness, very large. Colouring, moderate.
Self-esteem, very large. Locality, full.
Love of Approbation, full. Order, large.
Cautiousness, large. Time, rather small.
Benevolence, full. Number, moderate.
Veneration, full. Tune, full on one side; moderate
Hope, on one side, small; on on other.
other, full. Language, full.
Ideality, small. Comparison, rather full.
Conscientiousness, full. Causality, rather full.
Firmness, large. Wit, small.
Individuality, fall. Imitation, full.
Eventuality, rather full. Wonder, small.
Bulk's head is rather above the middle size. The
posterior lobe of the brain is large, and the middle
lobe, in which are situate the organs of Destructive
ness, Secretiveness, and Acquisitiveness, is very large;
at Destructiveness in particular the skull presented a
distinct swell. The anterior lobe, or that of intellect,
although small in proportion to the hind and middle
lobes, is still fairly developed, especially in the lower
region connected with the perceptive faculties. Self-
esteem is prominent, and has indented its form distinct
ly on the skull.
The general result of this development is, that the
animal feelings are very strong; the moral feelings are
proportionately feebler, but not wanting; while ob
serving intellect is present in a considerable degree,
but reflecting intellect much less. Let us attend,
however, to the organs a little in detail.
The cerebellum, or organ of Amativeness, was large;
and Burk stated that in some respect his ruin was to
be attributed to the abuses of this propensity, because
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. S3
it had led him into habits which terminated in his
greatest crimes.
Philoprogenitiveness is considerably developed; and
it is a well-known fact, which was mentioned on his
trial, that Burk was fond of children, and that they
liked him in return. He stated himself that he used
to carry "sweeties" in his pocket, which he gave them;
and the children who lived in the neighbourhood of
his house were ready at all times to run errands for
him, or serve him. He, nevertheless, confesses to
having assisted Hare iri murdering one child of twelve
years of age; so that he must have overcome this feel
ing, as he did his Benevolence in murdering adults.
His Adhesiveness is not so large as Philoprogeni
tiveness, but it is full. He was constant to M'Dou-
gall, and did not betray Hare; but the greater attach
ment seems to have been on the part of M'Dougall to
wards him.
Combativeness is considerably inferior to Destruc-
tiveness in size, and Cautiousness is large. These,
acting in combination with great Firmness and Secret-
iveness, would give him command of temper; and ac
cordingly, it is mentioned, that he was by no means
of a quarrelsome disposition; but when once roused
into a passion, he became altogether ungovernable,
deaf to reason, and utterly reckless; he raged like a
fury, and to tame him was no easy task; that is to say,
when his large Destruetiveness was excited to such a
degree that it broke through the restraints of his other
faculties, his passion approached to madness.
It is mentioned in the phrenological works, that Self-
esteem and Acquisitiveness are the grand elements of
selfishness. Both of these organs are largely develop
ed in Burk, as are also Destruetiveness, Secretive
84 BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
ness, and Firmness. Here, then, are organs all large,
whose abuses lead to selfishness, cunning, determina
tion, and cruelty; and nothing could more completely
accord with the character of Bui k.
It may naturally be asked, what became of these or
gans when Burk was yet a man of ordinary respecta
bility of character? Did they all lie dormant, and
show their existence for the first time only when he
began to murder? No: His own statement, that, when
roused to anger, he was exceedingly violent, shows
that at all times Destructiveness was ready to come
forth when excited, for anger is one of its manifesta
tions. We are not acquainted with the minute parti
culars of his previous life; but that he would show
selfishness, hardness of feeling, and also duplicity, as
ingredients in his character, we eannot doubt. These
qualities apparently did not break the Kmits of law;
but the organs would not be dormant when they were
possessed to such an extent.
That the feeling of Destructiveness was as power
fully present in Burk's mind as its cerebral organ was
prominent in his brain, is established not only by his
murders, but by other unequivocal indications. In
alluding to his deeds, he occasionally entered into the
spirit in which they had been perpetrated, and then a
fiendish but involuntary expression of pleasure ap
peared in his manner. On one occasion in particular,
when asked if it were true that he had hurried the
corpse of one victim to the dissecting-room with her
hand still convulsively grasping some money, he laugh
ed with a truly diabolical mixture of glee and contempt
at the idea, that they ichose sole object was money
should be thought so destitute of sense as to atlow any
sum, however small, to escape their grasp. This, too,
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 85
be it observed, occurred at a time when his habitual
state was that of apparently sincere contrition, accom
panied by a wish to do every thing in his power to
atone for his enormities.
Constructiveness is fully developed, and the organs
of Size, Weight, and Form are large. He stated that
he was fond of making little mechanical articles for
himself, and of seeing machinery; and as he expressed
it, "he took a conceit in looking at threshing-mills"
when in the country.
Cautiousness is large; and when asked whether he
was as heedless in getting into squabbles as many of
his countrymen? he replied with a shake of the head,
that he took good care of that, as he was cautious of
his personal safety, and that it required a good deal to
rouse him. He was asked also, how, with his general
great regard to his own safety, he had acted so care
lessly as to leave the body of Docherty uncovered in
the room? He replied, that at first he had been ex
ceedingly careful to prevent any thing appearing to
excite suspicion; but that repeated success had made
him less watchful. "Besides," he added, "I did not
suspect that these people would have taken the liberty
of going through the house in my absence. Was not
I feeding the Grays and giving them money out of my
own pocket? I did not think that they would have
informed against me, even if they had known." He
declared also, that he had great facility in keeping a
secret, and that if it had not been his closeness in that
respect, Hare would have been in his place at that mo
ment.
His great Self-esteem, Firmness, Cautiousness, and
Secretiveness, produced that self-command and un
shaken composure which never forsook him during
8*
86 BCRK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
his trial and execution. Many examples of this are
given:—"At seven in the morning, immediately pre
vious to execution, Burk walked with a firm step into
the keeper's room, followed by his confessor; and at
this mome'nt no appearance of agitation or dismay was
discernible in his countenance or manner. The mis
erable wretch, who looked thinner and more ghastly
than at his trial, walked with a steady step to the ap
paratus of death, between his confessor, the Reverend
Mr. Reid, and the Reverend Mr. Stewart, accompanied
by the Reverend Mr. Marshall, and seemed to us per
fectly cool and self-possessed; so much so, that in cross
ing from the Lock-up-house to the postern entrance
into Libberton's Wynd, where the path-way was wet
from the rain and thaw of the morning, we observed
him picking his steps with the greatest care."*
Love of Approbation is also considerably develop
ed, and we are informed, that "he seemed to have a
great regard for his character in his native place, and
where his wife resided. At one time he wished she
should be sought out, and the parish priest written to;
but after farther reflection, he remarked, 'It is a pity,
for I always bore a good character in the place, and
the knowledge of my crimes and unhappy fate would
only bring disgrace on my relatives, particularly my
poor father.' "
His Self-esteem and Love of Approbation would
cause him to feel intensely the execrations heaped on
him by the mob at his exeoution; and accordingly, it is
remarkable, that although he was able to conceal eve
ry other feeling that rankled in his bosom at his execu
tion, he was not capable of suppressing the outward
* The following extracts are taken from the Edingburg news
papers.
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 87
manifestation of the emotions which that treatment ex
cited. "Arrived on the platform of the scaffold," it is
said, "he was apparently somewhat blenched by the
appalling shouts and yells of execration with which
he was assailed, and cast a look of fierce and even des
perate defiance at the spectators, who reiterated their
cries, intermingled with maledictions." One of the
attendants at his execution, having treated him with
disrespect, roused his Self-esteem and Destructive-
ness, which again broke loose from restraint. It is
said "one of the persons who assisted him to ascend
he platform, having rather roughly pushed him to a
side in order to place him exactly on the drop, he
looked round at the man with a withering scowl which
defies all description."
Farther, looking at the coronal surface of the brain,
the seat of the moral sentiments, we find it narrow in
the anterior portion, but tolerably well elevated; that
is to say, the organ of Benevolence, although not in a
favourable proportion to the organs of the animal pro
pensities before mentioned, is fairly developed. Ven
eration and Conscientiousness are full, but hope is less
in size. Love of Approbation also is full. In these
faculties we find the elements of the morality which
he manifested in the early part of his life, and also an
explanation of the fact remarked by all who saw him,
that he possessed a mildness of aspect and suavity of
manner, which seemed in inexplicable contradiction
with his cold-blooded ferocity. If there had been no
kindness in all Burk's nature, this expression would
have been an effect without a cause. The Courant of
22d January says,—"It is remarked by some of those
who have access to see Burk, that his face has an agree
able and often pleasant expression, and by no means
88 - BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
any indication corresponding to the tragic crimes of
which he has been guilty." The Evening Post of
31st January observes,—"We have already stated,
that the conduct of Burk since his condemnation was
quite civil and mild in his demeanour to every person,
insomuch that some who have seen and had frequent
intercourse with him cannot sufficiently wonder that
such hardness of heart should be concealed under so
plausible an exterior." What is this but saying, that
human feeling actually beamed from the countenance
of Burk? and I would ask, how could it appear there
if it was utterly unknown to his mind?
It is by reconciling such anomalies as these that
Phrenology shows its correspondence to nature. The
ferocious feelings were strong in Burk, but the kind
lier affections also were present, and his aspect would
express the one or the ether according as it was elicited
by his external situation. How exactly this explana
tion corresponds with the fact is proved by another ob
servation of the Evening Post:—"A person who had
some intercourse with Burk immediately previous to
his trial, and again the day before his execution, stated
that he observed a very marked difference in his gen
eral appearance. On the first occasion, he was bold,
daring, and forward, (Self-esteem, Combativeness, and
Destructiveness, predominant:) and, on the latter, he
appeared quiet, subdued, and meek:" (Benevolence,
Veneration and Hope had attained the ascendency.)
The organ of Imitation is well developed; and it is
mentioned in the phrenological works, that Secretive-
ness, (which in him is likewise large,) in combination
with Imitation, produces the power of acting or simu
lation. It is curious to observe, that Burk possessed
this talent to a considerable extent. He stated that he
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 89
Was fond of the theatre, and occasionally represented
again the acting which he had seen. He also, and not
Hare, was the decoyer, who, by pretended kindness,
fawning, and flattery, or by acting the semblance of a
friend, inveigled the victims into the den. This quality
enabled him also to act a part in his interviews with
the various individuals who visited him in jail. He
showed considerable tact in adapting himself to the
person who addressed him: and, from the same cause,
it was difficult to discover when he was serious and
when only feigning. These faculties seem also to
have been the chief sources of his Humour.
One of the most striking tests of the degree in which
the moral sentiments are possessed by a criminal, is
the impression which his crimes make upon his own
conscience after the deeds have been committed. In
Bellingham, who murdered Mr. Perceval, the organ
of Destructiveness is very large, while that of Benevo
lence is exceedingly deficient; and he could never be
brought to perceive the cruelty and atrocity of the
murder. Burk, in whom Benevolence is better de
veloped, stated, that "for a long time after he had mur
dered his first victim, he found it utterly impossible
to banish, for a single hour, the recollection of the
fatal struggle,—the screams of distress and despair,—
the agonizing groans,—and all the realities of the
dreadful deed. At night, the bloody tragedy, accom
panied by frightful visions of supernatural beings, tor
mented him in his dreams. For a long time he shud
dered at the thought of being alone in the dark, and
during the night he kept a light constantly burning
by his bedside." Even to the last he could not en
tirely overcome the repugnance of his moral nature to
murder, but mentioned, that he found it necessary to
90 BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
deaden his sensibilities with whiskey, leaving only so
faint a glimmering of sense as to be conscious of what
he was doing. He positively asserted, that he could
not have committed murder when perfectly sober.
Unequivocal testimony is borne to his repentance.
"In the course of these devout and pious admonitions,
Mr. Reid used the words, 'You must trust in the
mercy of God;' upon which the unhappy wretch
heaved a long deep-drawn suspiration, or rather sup
pressed groan, which too plainly betrayed the anguish
and despair that lurked in his heart."—"The clergy
man afterwards prayed with him, and sung a portion
of the 25th Psalm, in which the following lines occur:
'Now, for thine own name's sake,
O Lord, I thee entreat
To pardon mine iniquity:
For it is very great.'
Burk was observed, particularly, to mark with his
nail the two last lines."
The smallest organs are Ideality, Wonder, and Wit,
faculties which give refinement and elevation to the
character,—in which qualities he was deficient.
His intellectual powers remain to be adverted to.—
The lower range, or perceptive organs, are well de
veloped; and it was mentioned by himself, that he had
some talent for mechanical construction, and was also
orderly and cleanly when he could command the
means. He read and wrote with facility. He men
tioned, that at one time he used to attend church, and
read books on controversial divinity, and debated over
the opinions in his own mind. He was tolerably well
conversant with Scripture. This is in perfect accord
ance with his possessing full Veneration. His con
versation was pertinent and easy; and he showed
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 91
readiness and shrewdness of intellect, but not much
depth or extent of reflecting power.
It is worthy of observation, that Sir Walter Scott,
in drawing the character of Charles II., presents a
portrait, which, allowing for the difference of external
situation, is amazingly applicable to Burk. Sir Wal
ter's words are,—"Charles, unfortunately, was very
fond of pleasure, and in his zeal to pursue it he
habitually neglected the interests of his kingdom. He
was very selfish, too, like all whose own gratification
is their sole pursuit; and he seems to have cared little
what became offriends or enemies, providing he could
maintain himself on the throne, get money to supply
the expenses of a luxurious and dissolute court, and
enjoy a life of easy and dishonourable pleasure. He
was good-natured in general; but any apprehension
of his own safety easily induced him to be se
vere and even cruel; for his love of selfpredomi
nated above both his sense of justice and his natural
clemency of temper.''—(Tales of a Grandfather, 2d
series, 2d vol. p. 170.)
It is singular, indeed, with what a trifling change
of expression every word of this may be applied to
Burk as well as to Charles II. We may read,—"Un
fortunately Burk was very fond of pleasure, and in
his zeal to pursue it he habitually neglected the inte
rest of others. He was very selfish too, like all those
whose own gratification is their sole pursuit; and he
seems to have cared little what became offriends or
enemies, providing he could maintain himself in idle
ness, get money to supply the expenses of his disso
lute life, and enjoy ease and dishonourable pleasure
He was good-natured in general; but the approach 01
want easily induced him to be severe and even cruel;
92 BURK AND HAKE, MURDERERS.
for his love of self predominated above both his sense
of justice and his natural clemency of temper."
The effect of external circumstances in exciting
particular propensities is admirably elucidated by Dr.
Blair, in his 12th Sermon, on the Character of Hazael;
the text is,—"And Hazael said, Why weepeth my
lord? And he answered, Because I know the evil
that thou wilt do unto the children of Israel: their
strongholds wilt thou set on fire, and their young men
wilt thou slay with the sword, and wilt dash their
children, and rip up their women with child. And
Hazael said, But what! is thy servant a dog, that he
should do this great thing?"
Dr. Blair, in commenting on this text, observes,—
"We here behold a man who, in one state of life, could
not look upon certain crimes without surprise and hor
ror; who knew so little of himself as to believe it im
possible for him ever to be concerned in committing
them; that same man, by a change of condition, trans
formed in all his sentiments, and as he rose in great
ness, rising also in guilt, till at last he completed that
whole character of iniquity which he once detested."
"In such cases," continues he, "4s I have described,
what has become of those sentiments of abhorrence at
guilt which were once felt so strongly? Are they
totally erased? or, if in any degree they remain, how
do such persons contrive to satisfy themselves in acting
a part which their minds condemn?" He answers
this question as follows:—"Though our native senti
ments of abhorrence at guilt may be so borne down,
or so deluded, as to lose their influence on conduct,
yet those sentiments, belonging originally to ourframe,
and being never totally eradicated from the soul, will
HURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 93
still retain so much authority, as if not to reform, at
least, on some occasions, to chasten the sinner."
It is unnecessary to point out the application of these
remarks to the case of Burk, as it is self-evident.
Dr. Blair continues,—"The seeds of various quali
ties, good and bad, lie in all our hearts; but until pro
per occasions ripen and bring them forward, they lie
there inactive and dead. They are covered up and
concealed within the recesses of our nature; or, if
they spring up at all, it is under such an appearance
as is frequently mistaken even by ourselves. Pride,
for instance, in certain situations, has no opportunity
of displaying itself, but as magnanimity, or sense of
honour. Avarice appears as necessary and laudable
economy. What in one station of life would discover
itself to be cowardice and baseness of mind, passes in
another for prudent circumspection. What in the ful
ness of power would prove to be cruelty and oppres
sion, is reputed, in a subordinate rank, no more than
the exercise of proper discipline. For a while the
man is known neither by the world nor by himself to
be what he truly is. But bring him into a new situa
tion of life, which accords with his predominant dis
positions, which strikes on certain latent qualities of
his soul, and awakens them into action; and as the
leaves of a flower gradually unfold to the sun, so
shall all his true character open full to view.
"This may in one light be accounted not so much
an alteration of character produced by a change of
circumstances as a discovery brought forth of the real
character, which formerly lay concealed. Yet, at the
same time, it is true that the man himself undergoes a
change. For the opportunity being given for certain
dispositions which had been dormant, to exert them
9
94 BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS.
selves without restraint, they of course gather strength.
By means of the ascendency which they gain, other
parts of the temper are borne down, and thus an alte
ration is made in the whole structure and system of
the soul."
There is great acuteness and truth in these remarks,
especially in the latter, in which Dr. Blair observes,
that difference of circumstances brings forth a discove
ry of the real character, rather than operates a radical
alteration of it; while, at the same time, there is a
change, in so far as one set of feelings gain the ascen
dency in the new situation which were subordinate
in the old. In Burk, poverty, habits of vicious plea
sure, intoxication, and the example of Hare gave an
ascendency to Deslructiveness which in happier cir
cumstances it did not possess.
This case is highly instructive to the Phrenologist,
and shows the effect of external circumstances in
bringing into predominance different elements of the
mind. We have never taught, that a man cannot
commit murder who has an organ of Benevolence, for
every individual has all the organs; but that a man
cannot commit cool murder without possessing Des-
tructiveness largely developed, and here Destructive-
ness is very large. If it had been small, this case
would have afforded a strong objection against that or
gan, because the propensity would have been mani
fested strongly without a corresponding development
of the organ. It is true that Phrenologists have
hazarded the conjecture as probable, that if the moral
organs possess a sufficient predominance in size over
Destructiveness and Combativeness, the individual
will not be capable of committing a deliberate murder
while sane; but they have made no pretensions to tell
BURK AND HAKE, MURDERERS. 95
the exact proportion of moral power whieh in given
circumstances will be sufficient to restrain a given
development of the animal organs from abuse. The
present case is pregnant with instruction on this point.
We perceive that a considerable degree of moral feel
ing has been as dust in the balance when weighed
against the excitement of the animal powers of Burk,
stimulated by the external temptations offered to them.
Having laid before our readers a phrenological
sketch of the character of Burk, as compared with
his cerebral development, we beg now to add a few
remarks on the indications presented by that of his
infamous accomplice and companion, Hare. We were
allowed to examine the head, and our estimate was
afterwards corrected by a comparison with a very
faithful cast taken by Mr. Joseph, with the hair so
closely cropped as completely to present the appear
ance of a cast moulded on the shaven scalp, except
along a marginal line in front, where Hare would not
allow the hair to be cut away; but even there it is so
thin as to present no obstacle.
At a glance, the proportion of brain in the lower
and back part, where the organs of the inferior pro
pensities are situated, is perceived to be very great,
compared with the top of the head, or region of the
organs of the moral sentiments, which is low and flat,
indicating a preponderance of the selfish and grovel
ling over the higher faculties of his mind. The organ
of Acquisitiveness, which lies in the temples, and
which gives the love of gain, is very large, and stands
broadly out, much surpassing the same part even in
Burk, in whom it was very considerable. The tem
poral muscle lies over it, and throws some difficulty in
96 BURK AND HARE, MURDEBEHS.
the way; but, making every allowance for its thick
ness, (which is generally moderate so high up,) the
organ is unquestionably very large. The prominence
which it occasions is so remarkable that an inexperi
enced or superficial observer might easily confound it
with the organ of Ideality, which is far from being
large in Hare, and indeed not more than moderate.—
Next to Acquisitiveness, the organs of Destruetive-
ness, Combativeness, and Self-esteem are the most re
markable, forming altogether a combination of the
lowest of the propensities, which, unguided as it was
in Hare by any considerable endowment of moral sen
timent, was abundantly strong to fit him for the scenes
in which he acted so brutal a part. The hope of gain,
would be an inducement too strong fbr his'powers of
resistance, no matter what the means were by which
the end was to be obtained. The organ of Benevo
lence is decidedly smaller in Hare than in Burk; and
it is well known that he was the more brutal and dis
gusting of the two. Burk in his confessions mentions,
that Hare could sleep soundly after a murder, but that
he could not; which indicates less of the moral feel
ings in the former than in the latter. Hare's Com
bativeness is also larger, and his Cautiousness rather
smaller than Burk's,—giving greater warmth of tem
per, hastiness, and proneness to fighting; and in proof
of this having been his character, his head, on being
cropped for casting, presented no fewer than six dis
tinct scars, the remains of wounds sustained in his
numerous squabbles and fights, chiefly in the Cowgate.
The anterior lobe of the brain, containing the organs
of intellect, is much shorter and smaller than that of
Burk, although when viewed in front it presents a
more perpendicular aspect, and may seem to be well
BURK AND HARE, MURDERERS. 97
developed. It presents no indication of the acuteness
and readiness by which Burk was distinguished even
to the last. In short, the development of Hare turns
out to be as complete a key to his mental character as
that of Burk has been shown to be to his, and harmo
nizes in every, respect with what is known of his
manifestations.
This history strongly suggests the indispensable ne
cessity of making arrangements to withdraw the
temptations which stimulated the baser principles of
these men's nature to such unprecedented excesses.—
A Phrenologist would say, that there are still Burks
and Hares in society,—that is, individuals who, while
preserved from temptation, may pas9 through the
world without great crimes, but in whom the capa
bility exists of similar atrocities, if similar facilities
are afforded them. In short, the case before us is in
structive, in showing what a particular combination of
human qualities is capable of performing in certain
circumstances; and society ought to take the lesson to
itself, that it is its duty, by means of education and
rational institutions, to remove excitement to crime
from such wretches to the greatest possible extent.—
The wild cry of indignation, and the amazement of
horror manifested by the public, are mere ebullitions
of feeling, which lead to nothing. It is a cheap and
easy way of being virtuous to express strong detesta
tion of vice; but the true lesson to be learned from
this dreadful and disgusting tragedy is to inquire into
and remove the causes which gave it rise. This is
active practical goodness; the other is mere indulgence
of excited feelings, fleeting as the day on which they
arise, and leaving no trace behind after time has cau
sed them to subside.
9*
ARTICLE IV.
[From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. 12, 1826.]
SPURZHEIM ON PHYSIOGNOMY*
Of Pope Alexander
VI. Dr.Spurzheim says,
"This cerebral organi
zation is despicable in
the eyes of a Phrenolo
gist. The animal organs
compose by far its great
est portion. Such a
brain is no more ade
quate to the manifesta
tion of Christian virtues than the brain of an idiot from
birth to the exhibition of the intellect of a Leibnitz or
a Bacon. The cervical and whole basilar region of
the head are particularly developed; the organs of the
perceptive faculties are pretty large, but the sincipital
region is exceedingly low, particularly at the organs
of Benevolence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness.
Such a head is unfit for any employment of a supe
rior kind, and never gives birth to sentiments of hu
manity. The sphere of its activity does not extend
beyond those enjoyments which minister to the ani
mal portion of human nature.
* I have not this interesting work of Dr. Spurzheim, and talie
the following short extract from it from the Journal.
SPTTRZHEIM ON FHrSIOGNDMY- 99
"Alexander VI. was in truth a scandal to the papal
chair; from the earliest age he was disorderly and art
ful, and his life to the last was infamous.
"He is said to have bought the tiara by bribing a
certain number of cardinals, or rather by making large
promises, which he never fulfilled. It is well known
that, when he became pope, he had a family of five
children,—four boys and one daughter. He made a
regular practice of selling bishoprics and other eccle
siastical benefices to enrich himself and his family.
Though profane and various religious writers do not
all agree in their judgment concerning the disorderly
conduct of this man, many atrocities committed by him
are well-ascertained facts. History will always ac
cuse him of the crimes of poisoning, simony, and false-
swearing,—of reckless debauchery,—nay, of incest
with his own daughter. In political matters he form
ed alliances with all the princes of his time, but his
ambition and perfidy never failed to find him a pre
text for breaking his word and disturbing the peace.
He engaged Charles VIII. of France to enter Italy in
order to conquer the kingdom of Naples; and as soon
as that prince had succeeded in the enterprise, he en
tered into a league with the Venetians and the Em
peror Maximilian to rob him of his" conquest. He
sent a nuncio to the Sultan Bajazet to entreat his as
sistance against Charles, promising him perpetual
friendship in case of compliance; but, after the receipt
of a large remittance from the Turks, he treacherous
ly delivered Zizim, the brother of Bajazet, then at
the court of Rome, into the hands of Charles. As a
singular example of Alexander's arrogance, his bull
may be mentioned by Avhich he took upon him to di
vide the new world between the kings of Spain and
100 SPURZHEIM ON PHYSIOGNOMY.
Portugal, granting to the former alt the territory on
the west of an imaginary line passing from north to
south, at one hundred leagues distance from the Cape
de Verd Islands. Alexander possessed eloquence
and address; but a total lack of noble sentiments ren
dered him altogether unfit for his sacred station. Poi
soned wine, which had been prepared for certain car
dinals whose riches tempted the cupidity of his holi
ness, was given him by mistake, and ended his profli
gate career. Some writers have questioned the truth
of this account of Alexander's death, but there is noth
ing in the relation inconsistent with the acknowledged
character of this pontiff. Lowness of feelings and
lowness of brain are seen together."
The head of Philip Me-
lancthon, from a portrait
by Alb. Durer.—"It is
very narrow," says Dr. S.
"aboveand behind the ears,
and the whole basilar re
gion is very small; almost
the whole of the brain, in
deed, lies in the forehead
and sincipital regions, both
of which are exceedingly
large. It is the brain of
an extraordinary man. The
organs of the moral and
religious feelings predominate greatly, and will disap
prove of all violence, irreverence, and injustice. The
forehead betokens a vast and comprehensive under
standing. The ensemble, a mind the noblest, the most
amiable, and the most intellectual that can be conceiv
SPURZHEIM ON PHYSIOGNOMY. 101
ed. If there be any thing to regret, it is, that the or
gans of the animal powers should have been so small
in comparison with those proper to man. Such a
head may be called chosen; its only cause of unhap-
piness is in contemplating the injustice of mankind,
and its too eager wishes for their better condition.
"Melancthon was born at Bretten, in the Palatinate,
in 1495. He received the rudiments of education in
his native place, went to the college of Pforzheim, and
two years afterwards to Heidelberg, where he made
such rapid progress in literature, that, before he had
completed his fourteenth year, he was intrusted with
the tuition of the sons of a noble family. He was
still very young when Erasmus wrote of him,—'Good
God! what hopes may we not entertain of Philip Me
lancthon, who, though as yet very young and a boy,
is equally to be admired for his knowledge in both
languages? What quickness of invention! what puri
ty of diction! what powers of memory! what variety
of reading! what modesty and gracefulness of beha
viour?' "
"He soon contracted a close intimacy and friendship
with Luther; and though he approved Luther's de
sign of delivering theology from the darkness of scho
lastic jargon, his mildness of temper made him ex
tremely averse to disputation of every description.
He, however, rendered great services to the cause of
reformation by his admirable abilities and his great
moderation. He was even forced to sustain a conspic
uous part in all the principal religious transactions and
ecclesiastical regulations of that period. For the sake
of peace and union, he was naturally inclined to yield
where essentials were not concerned, and always anx
ious to soften the acrimony of religious controversy.
102 SPURZHKIM ON PHYSIOGNOMY.
It is said that his mother having asked him what she
was to believe amidst the disputes which divided the
world, he replied. 'Continue to believe and pray as
you have hitherto done.' He was humane, gentle,
and readily won upon by mild and generous treatment;
but when his adversaries made use of imperious and
menacing language, he rose superior to his general
meekness of disposition, and showed a spirit of ardour,
independence,—nay, of intrepidity, looking down with
contempt upon the threats of power, and the prospect
even of death."
"Never was any man more civil and obliging, and
more free from jealousy, dissimulation, and envyrthan
Melancthon; he was humble, modest, disinterested in
the extreme; in a word, he possessed wonderful tal
ents and most noble dispositions. His greatest ene
mies have been forced to acknowledge that the an
nals of antiquity exhibit very few worthies who may
be compared with him, whether extent of knowledge
in things human and divine, or quickness of compre
hension, and fertility of genius, be regarded. The
cause of true Christianity derived more signal advan
tages and more effectual support from Melancthon
than it received from any of the other doctors of the
age. His mildness and charity perhaps carried him
too far at times, and led him occasionally to make con
cessions that might be styled imprudent. He was the
sincere worshipper of truth, but he was diffident of
himself and sometimes timorous without any sufficient
reason. On the other hand, his fortitude in defending
the right was great. His opinions were so univer
sally respected, that scarcely any one among the Lu
theran doctors ventured to oppose them. He was in
ferior to Luther in courage and intrepidity, but his
SPURZHEIM ON PHYSIOGNOMY. 103
equal in piety, and much his superior in learning,
judgment, meekness, and humanity. He latterly grew
tired of his life, and was particularly disgusted with
the rage for religious controversies, which prevailed
universally."
ARTICLE V.
[From the Transactions of the Phrenological Society of Edinburg.]
REMARKS ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
KING ROBERT BRUCE, COMPARED WITH HIS
CHARACTER AS APPEARING FROM HISTORY.
By Mr. William Scott.
At the time when Phrenology was first beginning
to attract attention in this country, it must certainly
be regarded as a piece of extraordinary good fortune,
that the discovery of the tomb of Robert Bruce,
authenticated beyond the possibility of doubt,* should
*King Robert was the last sovereign of Scotland, whose re
mains are recorded to have been interred at Dunfermline. He
was, according to Fordun, "Sepultus apud monasterium de Dun-
fermlyn in medio chori, debito cum honore." His heart having
been taken out, to be carried to the Holy Land by Sir James
Douglas, was, on the death of that knight in Andalusia, convey
ed back to Scotland by Sir William Keith, and afterwards
buried at Melrose.
The church of Dunfermline, which occupied the nave of the
ancient cathedral, having become ruinous, it was resolved, in 1817,
to erect a new building, extending over and including the space
occupied by the Royal Tombs. In the course of these operations,
the workmen came, by accident, upon a vault in a line with the
centre of the ancient choir, which was covered by two large flat
stones. This having been opened, at first only so far as to ascer
tain its being a royal vault, was immediately closed again, and
remained so, until the 5th of November, 1819, when it was laid
fully open, and its contents carefully examined in the presence of
the King's Remembrancer, and of several of the Barons of Ex
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 105
furnish us with the cerebral development of one of
the most renowned monarchs, and one of the most
justly celebrated men, whom this country, or whom
the world, has ever produced. The opportunity thus
afforded of illustrating the new science, and, at the
chequer. It then appeared, without a doubt, to have been the
tomb of King RoBERT Bruce.
The vault or grave was about seven feet long, of regular built
masonry, situated within a larger vault. It contained a human
skeleton, wrapped up in two separate coverings of lead. At the
time the grave was first opened, there was at the top of this lead
covering, something which had the appearance of a rude crown.
Under this lead was a covering of linen cloth, interwoven with
gold-thread, but which, on the second opening, was found in a state
of great decay. The whole being removed from over the body,
the skull was taken up, and found in a most perfect state. The os
hyoides was entire, and several cartilages of the larynx were visi
ble, from having, it is supposed, been ossified. The whole teeth
in the under jaw were entire, and in their places; but there were
four or five in the upper jaw wanting, with a fracture of the jaw
bone in front, probably occasioned by a blow which the King had
received in one of his military adventures.
The most remarkable circumstance observed regarding the skele
ton, was the state of the sternum, Which was found to have been
sawed asunder, from the top to the bottom. This was considered to
afford additional evidence that the skeleton was that of Bruce, as
this operation would be necessary to get at the heart, which, as
already mentioned, was taken out, to be carried to the Holy Land.
The workmen, in the course of their operations a few days
afterwards, found, among the rubbish of the vault, a plate of cop
per, which had escaped notice at the previous examination, having
engraved upon it a cross bearing the inscription "Robertas Scc-
1ovum Rex." Above the inscription is the figure of a crown; and,
beneath it, a crosslet, with four stars or mullets inserted in the
angles. The letters of the inscription resemble those on the coins
of Bruce. Upon the whole, there cannot be conceived more
satisfactory evidence of any fact of the kind, than that the skele
ton thus discovered, w as that of King Robert Bruce.
10
106 KINO ROBERT BRUCE.
same time, of exhibiting the true elements which
formed the character of the great deliverer of Scot
land, could not fail to be of the highest importance:
and although, upon the first announcement of the cere
bral development of Bruce, and without a sufficient
attention being paid to his real history and character,
some may have thought that it did not correspond with
the exalted ideas they had entertained of his merit, I
will venture, without much risk of contradiction, to
affirm, that no cause exists for any, feeling of disap
pointment on this account. I think it will appear,
on a minute examination of the circumstances of
Bruce's life, and of the times in which he lived, that
the character indicated by the development, is not only
borne out by the history in the closest manner,—but
that, had that development been in any material re
spect different from what we find it, it would not have
agreed with the history, and would have furnished
grounds for impugning either the authenticity of the
head, or the correctness of the principles laid down
in the science.
The first point on which an objection has been stated,
is the apparent deficiency in Bruce in the organs of
the intellectual powers, as compared with those of
some of the feelings, and particularly the animal pro
pensities; and it has been asked, is it possible that there
could have been any intellectual deficiency in so great
a man? But here it is fit that we make proper dis
tinctions. In Phrenology, two kinds of intellectual
faculties are recognised; the first communicating the
perceptive powers, the second the reflective. In
Bruce's head, the organs of the first class are amply
developed, and only the second are comparatively
small. It is proper, therefore, that we consider what
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 107
was the kind of intellectual
power which Bruce exhibit
ed, or which was necessary
for enabling him to perform
what he did. We must con
sider, in the first place, that
Bruce did not live in an in
tellectual age. He was the
head and ruler of a rude peo
ple, just emerging, for we
cannot say that in his time
they were actually emerged,
from barbarism. Not to men
tion the evidence of our own
historians, which is suffi
ciently explicit upon this
point, we may only allude to
the testimony of Froissart,
a contemporary chronicler,
and one whom there is no
cause to accuse of unfairness.
The account he gives of the
Scots in Bruce's reign, of
their manner of making war,
of their mode of encampment, of their living upon
flesh in a half raw state, merely sodden in skins, and
of their wearing shoes or buskins of untanned leather,
is such as to wear the stamp of truth, while it morti
fies us not a little at the low state of civilization in
our ancestors of the fourteenth century. They seem
to have been in a state little, if at all, superior to the
Cossack tribes of the present day. This was the peo
ple whom Bruce commanded, among whom and of
whom he was born; and it surely cannot be thought
108 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
surprising, nor imputed as a defect in the chief of such
a people, that he is not found to be endowed with
those higher reflective powers which are necessary for
sounding the depths of science, or for pursuing to its
consequences a long train of inductive reasoning. As
yet Science was not. Colleges and schools had no
existence in the land; printing was not invented; and
all the learning of the age was monopolized by a few
of the clergy, in so much that many distinguished no
bles could not write, and probably could not read.
The reasoning faculties of Bruce were not exercised
in his youth, by being imbued with the wisdom of the
ancients, and by having opened to his view the trea
sures of learning and the inexhaustible wonders of
science. War and the chase formed in his time at
once the school and the pastime of the noblest spirits.
The duties of a monarch were in those days few and
simple. They were chiefly, if not exclusively, "to
go in and out before the people, and to fight their
battles."
The head of Bruce was, soon after its discovery,
examined by different phrenologists, and its develop
ment, as stated by them, has long been before the pub
lic. It certainly appears to me that they have, at least,
not erred on the favourable side in this case; and, in
stead of bending the development to suit preconceived
notions, and to raise the monareh in the scale of in
tellect, I rather think, with submission to them, they
may have, somewhat under-rated the reflecting powers
of Bruce. He is admitted to have a large Individu
ality; and, I may add, (if we are right in holding that
there are two organs included in this,) that they are
both largely developed in Bruce. It is laid down in
the Outlines, and> indeed, all the systems of Phreno
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 109
logy, that these organs give the talent of quick obser
vation and tenacious memory for facts and occurrences
presented to the senses; and, when joined to a favour
able combination of the propensities and sentiments,
they give that kind of judgment which is known by
the name of sagacity, or common sense: for it must
never be forgotten, that practical judgment is held, in
Phrenology, to depend fully more on the power of
feeling correctly, than of reasoning deeply. We have
known many persons in whom Ave have observed
these organs to be well marked, who, with a very
moderate, or rather a small portion of what are called
the reflecting faculties, possess a quick intuitive judg
ment in common affairs, are prompt to decide and to exe
cute, and are bence better fitted for the ordinary busi
ness of life, than those whose high reflective faculties
are far superior, but who enjoy less of these lower
powers. Now, this was exactly the sort of talent
which was required and exhibited by Bruce. There
is nothing in his history which leads us to suppose,
that, in point of intellect, he rose at all higher than
good shrewd sense. There are many such men, who,
though they want that comprehensiveness and sub
tlety of mind which can pursue long trains of reason
ing, and cannot even state the reasons of their conduct
in a luminous and distinct discourse, yet never fail in
discerning, as it were, by an intuitive tact, their own
true interest, even in a view of the most complex
affairs, and at once decide upon that course of conduct
which is fittest for obtaining their ends. The talents
for shining in reasoning and discourse, and those ne
cessary for wise and decisive action, thus appear per
fectly different. And if, on the one hand, we were to
place the reflective and reasoning powers of Burke
10*
110 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
or of Bacon,—which are given only by a large de
velopment of the higher intellectual organs; and, on
the other, that rapid and accurate perception, which is
given by Individuality, with that tact of sagacious
feeling, prompt decision, and energy of action, which
are the results of a good combination of the propensi
ties and sentiments;—and we were asked which of these
kinds of talent was most likely to shine in the age of
Bruce, we would most assuredly answer, the latter.
1 have only to add on this subject, that, although what
are called the higher intellectual organs, Comparison,
Causality, and Wit, are by no means fully developed
in Bruce, as contrasted with the other parts of the
head, this is more relatively than absolutely the case.
The head is a very large one, and these organs appear
small only in comparison with those of the feelings,
which in him are very large; and when compared with
the corresponding organs in a head of ordinary size,
they will be found really not deficient. They are not
actually smaller than are to be found in many persons
of good sense and shrewd understanding at the present
day: and we may be satisfied that, even in respect of
these, Bruce stood rather above than below the
average of intellect among his countrymen in his own
time. The head of Bruce is altogether one of the
largest which has come under our observation; and it
will be recollected, that, in perfect and healthy con
formation, great size in the brain is held to indicate
great power in the mind; the kind of power corres
ponding to the region of the brain which is most en
larged.
The next thing to be noticed is, the deficiency which
has been remarked in the sentiments of Benevolence
and Conscientiousness. It is true, that both of them
KING ROBERT BRUCE. Ill
are exceedingly moderate in Bruce, the last being
particularly small. But this affords no objection.
There is nothing in the history of Bruce which leads
us to suppose that he possessed either of these sen
timents in great vigour. There is no instance re
corded in which he shewed any great regard for the
happiness, or regret for the sufferings of others; and
certainly none in which he made any great sacrifice,
or suffered himself to be stopped in any of his plans,
from a merely benevolent or conscientious motive.
But passing these topics, which really afford no ob
jection either to the authenticity of the head or its
correspondence with the character, we shall state the
development as we find it, and afterwards add a few
observations on the character and history of the illus
trious person to whom it belonged.
Amativeness, full. Individuality, lower, large.
Philoprogenitiveness, large. upper, full.
Concentrativeness, rather full. Form, large.
Adhesiveness, large. Size, large.
Combativeness, large. Weight, uncertain..
Destructiveness, large. Colouring, moderate.
Constructiveness, rather small. Locality, rather large.
Acquisitiveness, moderate. Order, moderate.
Secretiveness, very large. Time, uncertain.
Self-esteem, rather large. Number, uncertain.
Love of Approbation, large. Tune, moderate.
Cautiousness, large. Language, uncertain.
Benevolence, rather small. Comparison, moderate.
Veneration, large. Causality, moderate.
Hope, large. Wit, rather small.
Ideality, moderate. Imitation, moderate.
Conscientiousness, small. Wonder, moderate.
Firmness, very large.
The size of the head will be seen from the following
measurements, taken from the middle of the surface
of each organ, as indicated on the skull.
112 king robert bruce.
Inchm, ,
From Philoprogenitiveness to lower Individuality, . 8
Concentrativeness to Comparison, 6 5-8
Meatus auditorius externus (right side,) to thejunc
tion of the occipital spine, with Philoprogeni-
tiveness, 4 5-8
Do. to lower Individuality, 5
Do. to Firmness, 5 5-8
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, . ... .5 7-8
Secretivcness to Secretiveness, 6
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, 5 5-8
Ideality to Ideality, 4 6-S
It will be obvious, to every phrenologist, on looking
at this development, that the character which it indi
cates, is one (either for good or for evil,) of great
energy and power. From the full endowment of
Amativeness, and the large Philoprogenitiveness and
Adhesiveness, we would conclude, (what we know to
be the case from his history,) that he was a kind hus
band and father, attentive to the interests of his family,
and disposed to enjoy the pleasures of private friend
ship and domestic society. His large Combativeness
and Destructiveness were abundantly shewn by his
prowess in battle, and also by that warmth of temper,
of which many instances occur, and which might lead
us to apply to him, what has been said of his country
in general,
"Whoe'er shall provoke thee, th' encounter shall rue."
His Cautiousness and Secretiveness were shewn, not
merely in the mode in which he generally attacked
his enemies, which was oftener by stratagem and sur
prise than in the open field, and by the general pru
dence of all his measures; but also in his power of
dissembling, when he chose, his secret feelings, which
we frequently find him doing, both with the English
KING ROBERT BRUCE. H3
monarch, in whose court he at one time resided; and
in his intercourse with his own nobles, when in the
height of his power. His full endowment of Self-es
teem, and the large love of Approbation, (the latter of
which inspires with Ambition,) joined to some portion
of Ideality, account for that high spirit of chivalry,
and ardent love of glory, which he manifested in so
great a degree, and these joined to his Combativeness,
Destructivencss and Adhesiveness, and the feeling of
greatness, arising from the consciousness of his royal
descent, sufficiently account for his long and vigorous
exertions on behalf of his suffering and much injured
country. This combination also, joined to the great
power communicated to the mind, by the large size of
the brain, would give him a noble and commanding
aspect, a princely bearing and carriage, although not a
profoundly intellectual look. His Firmness and Hope,
which were both large, are sufficiently shewn, by his
persevering in his exertions; his patience, under every
distress and privation, and his constant expectation of
ultimate success, which appeared so remarkable to
Boece, that he thinks it can only have "cumin be
miracle and grace of God. Howbeit his friendis war
neir all uterly destroyit, he ceissit nevir to have ferme
esperance sumtyme to recover his realme, and liberte
of his pepil."
Owing to his moderate Acquisitiveness, we no
where find him guilty of any mean or sordid action. It
was ever the glory and the power annexed to a crown,
and not the possessions attached to it, which he seems
to have desired. His moderation in this respect, ap
pears from what we are told by Buchanan, that for
some years before his death, he had given up the
splendors of royalty, and lived at Cardross near to
114 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
Dunbarton, more like a private person than a king.
Of his great Veneration he gave many unquestionable
proofs, in the regard which he paid to the religion,
and even the superstitions of his time; and a very re
markable one appears in the very last act of his life,
his ordering his heart to be conveyed to the Holy
Land.
I shall now examine more minutely, some of the
more prominent passages of Bruce's History, and I
think it will appear that they correspond with the de
velopment in a way equally exact and surprising.
The first acts which are recorded of him are unfor
tunately not such as to afford any omens of his future
greatness. In his youth he was wavering and unset
tled; and his character unfolded itself afterwards, as
events afforded opportunity. After an end had been
put to the short and unfortunate reign (if reign it can
be called) of John Balliol, Edward of England
(1296,) who now hoped to annex the crown of Scot
land to his own, held a Parliament at Berwick, and
there received the fealty of the clergy and nobles of
that country. Among those who concurred in this
disgraceful national submission, was "Robert Bruce
the younger, Earl of Carrick." The year following
(1297,) when Wallace had just begun his great and
heroic exertions for the liberation of his country from
the English yoke, Bruce, whose great possessions,
as well as his pretensions to the crown, rendered him
suspected, was summoned to Carlisle, by the Wardens
of the West Marches, for the purpose of renewing
his oath of allegiance. "He obeyed," says Hailes,
"and sivore on the consecrated host, and on the sword
of Becket, to be faithful and vigilant in the cause of
Edward. To prove his sincerity, he invaded the es
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 115
tate of Sir William Douglas, with fire and sword,
and carried off his wife and children. He instantly
repented of what he had done. I trust, said he, that
the Pope will absolve me from an extorted oath. He
abandoned Edward, and joined the Scottish army."
(See Hailes' Annals.)
In all this, we see the deficiency of the conscien
tious principle, and the dexterity of self-delusion, by
which his failure in this respect is reconciled to his
religious feelings. Oaths are taken and broken with
out scruple, trusting to obtaining an absolution from
the Pope. But we are not yet done with these acts
of tergiversation. Some of the Scottish leaders, and
Bruce among others, afterwards consented to treat
with the English; but the known inconstancy of
Bruce required something more than acknowledg
ments of submission, and oaths of fealty. The Bishop
of Glasgow, the Stewart, and Alexander de Linde-
say, became sureties for his loyalty and good beha
viour, until he should deliver his daughter Marjory as
a hostage. This curious instrument is dated 9th July,
1297.
Some time after the successful issue of the battle of
Stirling; (but probably not until the spring of 1298,)
the young Earl of Carrick again acceded to the
cause of his country, now apparently triumphant. At
the time of the disastrous battle of Falkirk, he was in
arms on the side of the Scots; but instead of being
present in the main army, he guarded the Castle of
Ayr, which preserved the communication with Gal
loway and the West Highlands. This authentic cir
cumstance completely refutes the absurd tale of Bruce
having fought on the side of the English at Falkirk,
and of a conference between him and Wallace, im
11G KING ROBERT BRUCE.
mediately after that battle, on opposite banks of the
Carron.
Some time after the unfortunate issue of that en
gagement, we find Bruce not merely acting once more
with the English party, but, what may seem most ex
traordinary, we find him apparently high in the con
fidence and favour of the English monarch. At this
time a Scots Regency was formed in the name of the
absent John Balliol, who can now be considered
nothing else than a mere puppet in the hands of Ed
ward. The members of this regency, besides Bruce,
were the Bishop of St. Andrew's, and John Comyn,
younger of Badenoch. It is understood, that Comyn
took the chief direction of affairs under this regency;
and that Bruce was never very cordial or sincere,
either in acknowledging Balliol, or supporting
Comyn, may be presumed, from the feeble and versa
tile conduct which he always evinced, until circum
stances induced or compelled him to urge his own
pretensions. (Kerr's History of Robert the Bruce. )
After this we hear little of Bruce for some years,
during which he appears to have lived at peace, and
even in favour with Edward, and to have occasional
ly resided at his court. His large secretiveness and
caution, and also that quick observation and tact given
by his large individuality, would lit him to play the
courtier, and to conceal his real designs under a veil
of ease and carelessness. This seems to have continu
ed, until the discovery of the intrigues between him
and Comyn, and the slaughter of the Comyn, by
Bruce and his associates, in the church of the Mino
rites at Dumfries, made it no longer possible for him
to preserve terms with Edward. I mean not to in
quire whether this homicide was justifiable or not.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 117
It is only necessary here to examine, whether it is
such an act, as Bruce, from what we know of his de
velopment, and consequent temper, was likely to com
mit upon provocation given. On looking at the de
velopment, we perceive combativeness and destructive-
ness both large; and in the works on Phrenology, these
are uniformly mentioned, as conducing to rage, or
that impetuous passion which boils over in a momen
tary fury; and hence we may confidently say, that,
on the principles of Phrenology, the slaughter of
Comyn was such an act, as a person with this devel:
opment was likely to commit. The circumstances
alleged by the Scottish historians, for palliating or
justifying the deed, may or may not be true, but the
undoubted facts are quite sufficient. It will be re
membered, that Bruce and Comyn were the chiefs
of two discordant factions; both bad claims to the
crown; and at a meeting, for the discussion of mutual
injuries between men of such high and irreconcilable
pretensions, it is not wonderful that such matter of
provocation should occur, as to cause a man of the
impetuous temper of Bruce to have recourse to his
sword.
That Bruce's part in the murder proceeded from
sudden impulse, and not from premeditated intention,
seems obvious from this, that he did not effectually
perpetrate the act. No sooner had he given the blow,
than his anger seems to have yielded to his constitu
tional cautiousness; and his veneration, which was
great, occasioned, if not remorse, a sudden horror at
the crime he had been guilty of, the most heinous cir
cumstance of which would probably appear to him to
11
118 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
be, that it was committed in a church.* Impressed
with these feelings, he rushed out, hardly knowing
what he did, exclaiming to his friends without, "I
doubt I have slain the Comyn." They, with more
coolness, and instantly seeing the danger of leaving so
powerful a rival alive, against whom such an attempt
had been made, determined to secure the matter be
yond a doubt, and going in, stabbed him to the heart.
Such a deed, at the present day, strikes us with hor
ror; but in those times it was probably regarded dif
ferently. As a proof of this, we may refer to the cir
cumstance of Kirkpatrick, the chief of those who
assisted in the murder, assuming a bloody dagger for
his crest, and for the motto, the words "I mak sickar;"
plainly alluding to this very deed, which he thus seems
to have regarded as redounding to his honour, rather
than as being a subject of reproach.
It is probable, from Bruce's large cautiousness and
secretiveness, that if he had at this time entertained
any designs for obtaining the Crown of Scotland, he
would have concealed them for some time longer, and
delayed taking any active measures till a favourable
opportunity occurred, had not this homicide made far
ther temporising impossible, and rendered an open
avowal of his pretensions a measure of prudence, and
even of necessity.
Down to this period, we have seen nothing of
* "Bruce," says Sir Walter Scott,"uniformly professed, and
probably felt compunction for having violated the sanctuary of the
Church, by the slaughter of Comyn; and, finally, in his last hours,
in testimony of his taith, penitence, and zeal, he requested James,
Lord Douglas, to carry his heart to Jerusalem,to be there depos
ited in the Holy Sepulchre."
Lord of the blet. Note 17. Canto II.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 119
Bruce but one continued course of fickleness and
tergiversation, giving rise to crimes to which, unless
we make large allowances for the difficult circumstances
in which he stood, and the feelings of the age in which
he lived, we can give no other names than those of
perjury and murder. But we are now approaching a
different scene, where the powers and propensities
with which he was endowed, were all gratified with
legitimate indulgence and the fullest exercise, in a
manner which redounded not more to his own indivi
dual advantage and glory, than to the advantage, the
interest, and the glory of his country. From the
moment that he touches the last sad point of his degra
dation, and is driven to the measure of openly claim
ing the Crown of Scotland, Bruce appears to rise be
fore us a new man. This is quite easily accounted
for by the new direction afforded to his faculties by
the circumstances in which he is placed, without any
change in his natural character. His former miscon
duct arose from the opposition which existed between
his love of country and his own ambitious views on
the one hand, and his fear of offending King Edward
on the other. But the murder of Comyn having pla
ced him in a state of irreconcilable enmity with the
English monarch, his whole powers are now directed,
without any division or distraction, upon one exclu
sive object, fair and honourable in itself,—the recov
ering to himself the throne of his ancestors, and to
Scotland, freedom from an odious foreign yoke. Be
sides, the new situation in which he is placed, impress
ing him more fully with a sense of his own importance,
would call into activity feelings which had previous
ly no opportunity of displaying themselves. His self-
esteem, and hope, thus excited, would lead him to con
20 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
sider himself the anointed of Heaven, the destined de
liverer of his people. His love of approbation, would
add to this the desire of glory, and an anxiety to avoid
whatever might tarnish the honour of a true knight,
and of a lawful monarch. His veneration, joined to
all these, would cherish a peculiar sentiment of self-
respect, founded upon the long line ofa hundred kings,
through which the chronicles of his country taught
him to believe the sceptre which he now aspired to
had been transmitted. And the whole united, would
fill his mind with that inborn feeling of dignity, which
no degree of merit, without the adjunct of hereditary
exalted rank, is ever known to inspire, and make him
feel, and be felt by others to be, "every inch a King."*
From this time forth, the life of Bruce, as related
by our artless chroniclers, resembles the events of an
epic poem. It is needless to relate, minutely, the
hardships he endured on his first entering upon the
arduous task of rescuing his country from the English
*The following passage, in Scott's "Lord oftheIsles," descrip
tive of the mien and demeanour of Bruce, was pointed out to the
author after the above was written. Its coincidence with what is
stated in the text, derived from Phrenology, is striking, and af
fords an instance among a thousand which might be produced, how
characters drawn from the life, or with just notions and views of
human nature, will be found to correspond minutely with those
views which Phrenology presents to us.
"Proud was his tone but calm, his eye
Had that compelling dignity,
His mien that bearing haught and high,
Which common spirits fear;
Needed nor word nor signal, mere
Nod, wink, and laughter, all were o'er;
Upon each other back they bore,
And gazed like startled deer."
Lord of the Tsles. Canto I.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 121
yoke. We find him, even in these hopeless circum
stances, manifesting his veneration for established cus
toms, and the established religion, by going to be
crowned at Scone, and sending to Rome for a pardon
for the crime of the murder. His first attempts after
this were singularly unfortunate. Twice he was de
feated by the partisans of Edward, and all his followers
dispersed. Two of his brothers, who were bringing
him reinforcements, were defeated and taken prisoners,
and cruelly slain by the English. His wife and daugh
ter were also taken, and remained captives in the hands
of his enemies. We find him wandering, deserted,
and an outcast in his own kingdom, subsisting on roots,
and hiding himself among mountains and in caves, re
minding us of the evils endured by David when he
fled before the face of the furious Saul. We need
not follow him in the gradual steps—the fortunate
accidents steadily improved, which led to his final
success, and the expulsion of the hated Southron from
the Scottish soil. The qualities which were here exhibi
ted by Bruce, both in exertion and suffering, have been
already, in some measure, pointed out and explained.
But it may be proper to contemplate, for a moment,
the means which he pursued to accomplish his pur
pose, as illustrative at once of his own character, and
of the circumstances in which he was called upon to
act. He did not take a profound and comprehensive
survey of the situation of his kingdom, measure its
strength with the strength of England, combine his
means in one great effort; and either by a general
rising in every district of the country, or by a col
lected mass of soldiers, attempt to deliver Scotland
from her chains. Such a mode of proceeding would
have indicated those higher powers of reflection and
11*
122 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
combination which his development shews that he did
not possess. But he resorted to no such measures.—
He obeyed the impulses of an instinctive bravery and
ambition. He collected a few hundred followers, and
took the field with them as at once their King, their
commander, and their fellow soldier. A powerful
arm was then held in higher estimation than a highly
gifted understanding; and while Bruce's prowess in
personal combat is the theme of deserved eulogy, no
trace is to be found of the display of those penetra
ting and comprehensive powers which depend exclu
sively on a great intellectual development.
The following are instances of the kind of exploits
performed by Bruce, by which he sometimes extri
cated himself from difficulties which would probably
have overwhelmed any other man. On the occasion
of his being defeated, with his small party, by the su
perior forces of Lorn, in Glendochart, he retreated
with his men up a narrow and difficult pass, "he him
self bringing up the rear, and repeatedly turning and
driving back the more venturous assailants." Three
of Lorn's stoutest followers resolved to make a dash
at him. "They watched their opportunity (says Sir
W. Scott,) until Bruce's party had entered a pass
between a lake and a precipice, when the King, who
was the last of the party, had scarce room to manage
his steed. Here his three foes sprung upon him at
once. One seized his bridle, but received a wound
which hewed off his arm. A second grasped Bruce
by the stirrup and leg, and endeavoured to dismount
him; but the King putting spurs to his horse, threw
mm down, still holding by the stirrup. The third
taking advantage of an acclivity, sprung up behind
him upon his horse. Bruce, however, whose per-
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 123
sonal strength is uniformly mentioned as exceeding
that of most men, extricated himself from his grasp,
threw him to the ground, and cleft his skull with his
sword. By similar exertions, he drew the stirrup
from his grasp whom he had overthrown, and killed
him also with his sword, as he lay among the horse's
feet." It is added, that the King's bravery, on this
occasion, drew, even from his foes, expressions of the
warmest admiration; and Macnaughton, one of
Lorn's followers, declared "he had never heard of
one, who, by his knightly feats, had extricated him
self from such dangers as had this day surrounded
Bruce."
A similar exploit is recorded of Bruce, when in
still more desperate circumstances. It occurred in
Ayrshire, after the dispersing of his friends, on his
first landing in that country. He and a small band
who still adhered to him, were pursued by a party
who brought with them a sleugh dog, or blood-hound,
which, it is said, "had been once a favourite of Bruce
himself; and, therefore, was not likely to lose the
trace." Bruce divided his force once and again, but
still found that his pursuers, guided by the blood
hound, directed all their force in pursuit of the divi
sion in which he remained, paying no attention to the
others; at last the King was left with a single atten
dant, his foster-brother, when five of the most active
of his pursuers were detached to follow him and
interrupt his flight. "What aid wilt thou make?"
said Bruce to his adherent, when he saw the five
men gain ground upon him. "The best I can," was
il,e answer. "Then," said Bruce, "here I make my
stand." The five pursuers came up fast. The King
took three to himself, leaving the other two to his fos-
124 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
ter-brother. He slew the first who encountered him;
but observing his foster-brother hard pressed, he
sprung to his assistance, and dispatched one of his as
sailants. Leaving him to deal with the survivor, he
returned upon the other two, both of whom he slew
before his foster-brother had dispatched his single an
tagonist. When this hard encounter was over, with
a courtesy which every where marks Bruce's charac
ter, he thanked his foster-brother for his aid. "It
likes you to say so," answered his follower, "but you
yourself slew four of the five." The above story is
quoted from Barbour, by Sir Walter Scott, in his
notes to "The Lord of the Isles."
I now wish to state, somewhat in detail, the events
of the celebrated battle of Bannockburn; events which
display more of the spirit of chivalry than almost any
of the fictions of romance; and which, so far as Bruce
is concerned, receive no little illustration from the in
quiry we are now pursuing. The circumstances
which led to this famous action, are well known.—
Bruce having made himself master of most of the for
tified places in the kingdom, had left his brother
Edward to besiege Stirling, one of the few strengths
still occupied by the English. Philip de Mowbray
the Governor, offered to surrender, if he was not re
lieved on the feast of St. John the Baptist (24th June,)
the following year. To this offer, Edward Bruce,
without consulting his brother, agreed.
The King of Scots was highly displeased at this
rash treaty. By it the military operations were inter
rupted, and a long interval allowed to the English for
rsembling their utmost force; while, at the same time,
the Scots were reduced to the necessity either of rai
sing the siege with dishonour, or hazarding the king
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 125
dom on the event of a single battle. But Bruce was
not now the inconstant youth, who had made and
broken covenants and oaths, as will or interest directed.
He had now to support the dignity of his Crown, and
of a name already great in arms. The word of a
prince, of his own brother, had been given to the
English knight; and the manners of the age made it
impossible to forfeit that word, without an indelible
stain upon his honour. He was constrained, there
fore, to observe it, through the influence of love of
approbation, if not from the dictates of conscientious
ness. He, therefore, consented, however reluctantly,
to the treaty, and resolved to meet the English on the
appointed day.
Bruce must, no doubt, have seen with anxiety and
alarm, the mighty preparations made by the King of
England, for the approaching struggle; preparations
which, as that monarch imagined, were not only to
wipe away all his former disgraces in Scotland, but
to finish at one blow the liberties and the hopes of that
unfortunate country. And certainly, if victories
were to be disposed of by numbers, and if trust was
to be put "in chariots and in horses," there seemed
then little hope for Scotland, or for her defenders.—
While England, rich and unexhausted, sent, as we
are told, 100,000 warriors to the combat, with such a
multitude of followers, as overspread the land, and
seemed as if they came to take possession of an easy
prey, rather than to fight a dubious battle;—Bruce,
with all his exertions, was unable to raise from his im
poverished country, broken with continued oppres
sions and spoils, more than 30,000 men; and these, as
may be supposed, poorly armed and accoutred, in
jomparison with the array of sturdy yeomen and gaily
:aparisoned men-at-arms from wealthier England.
126 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
We have said, that Bruce possessed the faculties
which impart quickness in perception, and prudence
in conduct. The skill and sagacity shewn by him in
his choice of the ground where he was to meet the
enemy; and his stratagem of digging pits for entan
gling the English horse, illustrate well those features
of his character depending on individuality, cautious
ness and secretiveness. It has been remarked, how
ever, that by the disposition he made he exposed his
left flank to the garrison of Stirling. But Mowbray,
the Governor, had consented to a truce; and if he had
assailed the Scotch before the fate of the castle was
determined by battle, he would have been deemed a
false knight. In those days, we are told, the point of
honour was the only tie which bound men: for dis
pensations and absolutions had effaced the reverence
of oaths.
The following circumstance deserves to be noticed,
as highly characteristic of Bruce, Eight hundred
horsemen, commanded by Sir Robert Clifford,
were detached from the English army, they made a
circuit by the low grounds to the east, and approached
the castle. Bruce, whose vigilance nothing could
escape, (his large individuality is conspicuous here,)
rode hastily up to Randolph, his nephew, who com
manded the left-wing, and said to him angrily, that "a
rose was fallen from his chaplet;* for where he was
* This expression is obscure. If really used by Bruce, it shews
some comparison and ideality. It may have been a common or
proverbial expression at the time. The words of Barbour are,
For the King had said him rudely,
That a rote of his chapilel
Wasfallen; for where he was set
To keep the way, those men were past.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 127
set to keep the way, he had allowed the enemy to
pass." Randolph hastened to repair his fault or
perish. As he advanced, the English cavalry wheeled
to attack him. Randolph drew up his troops in a
circular form, with their spears resting on the ground,
and protruded on every side. The enemy far superior
in numbers, pressed him hard. Douglas saw him
in jeopardy, and asked the King's permission to go
and succour him. . "You shall not move from your
ground," cried the King, "Randolph must extricate
himself as he best may. I will not alter my order of
battle, and lose the advantage of my position." {Cau
tiousness, firmness, and the small development of be
nevolence, here display themselves.) Douglas af
terwards obtained his tardy permission to succour his
friend; but the aid was unnecessary. Randolph had
repulsed the enemy; and Douglas, with a truly
chivalrous feeling, forbore to join him, lest he should
diminish the honour of his success.
The King's exploit on the evening before the bat
tle, when he clove with his battle-axe the helmeted
head of Henry de Bohun, an English knight, who
had attacked him as he rode carelessly along his line,
is sufficiently indicative of his great personal strength
and address (another word for the rapid perception
conferred by individuality) as well as of his large en
dowment of combativeness and destructiveness.
His veneration appears conspicuous, in the acts of
piety which were performed in the morning of the
battle. The Abbot of Inchaffray, we are told, said
mass upon a rising ground in sight of the whole army,
and afterwards carried barefooted, a crucifix along the
line, encouraging the soldiers to fight. The Scots kneel
ed down. "They yield!" cried Edward, "see they im
128 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
plore mercy." "They do," answered Ingelram de
Umfraville, "but not from you! On that field they
will be victorious or die!" De Umfraville was
right. When veneration is excited in the degree it
appears here, along with a powerful firmness, and a
sufficient endowment of the combative and destructive
powers, there is no thought of yielding or of flight.
Men so excited, fear death far less than submission;
or rather, they do not fear it at all. . Fighting in. a cause
which they deem holy as well as just, there is some
thing of the zeal of the martyr superadded to the
courage of the hero; and death even appears a con
summation to be desired, as at once the most glorious
termination of their earthly toils, and as offering an
immediate passport to heaven.
It has been said by some, that the English were
seized with a panic, on observing what they thought
a new army appearing on the heights, which were no
other than the wagoners and sumpter boys, dressed
out as such with penons and standards. But by the
most authentic accounts, the English appear to have
fought bravely; and the victory, though complete, was
neither easy nor bloodless. It would rather appear,
that the victory was decided by Bruce's ordering Sir
Robert Keith to charge the English archers in flank,
while he himself came up with the reserve. Now,
Bruce's development is exactly such, as would ena
ble him to preserve coolness and complete presence of
mind, and give distinct orders in the midst of such a
scene of carnage and confusion. His large combative-
ness and destructiveness are kept in check, and ba
lanced by his caution and firmness, leaving full scope
for that quick observation of passing events, and that
intuitive judgment and rapid decision, given by his
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 129
large individuality. In the shock of an engagement,
there is no time for subtle and refined combinations.
The movements must be simple, obvious and easy;
but above all they must be prompt and sudden. The
intellectual powers which belonged to Bruce, and
which he possessed in full perfection, were perfectly
competent to this; and the genius of a Shakspeare
or a Bacon could not have performed the office so
well.
We must not omit to mention the courteous beha
viour of Bruce after the battle, and the generosity
shewn by him in his treatment of the prisoners who
were allotted to him. He set at liberty Ralph de
Monthekmer, and Sir Marmaduke Twenge, with
out ransom. (Here we see his moderate acquisitive
ness makes him regardless of sordid and mercenary
considerations.) By humane and courteous offices, it
is said he alleviated the misfortunes of the captives,
won their affections, and shewed the English how they
ought to have improved their victories.
That this courtesy and humanity did not proceed
entirely from benevolence, appears from the small re
gard which Bruce shewed on other occasions for the
sufferings of the people, in the destructive inroads
which he made into England, when his course was
tracked by smoking villages, and every kind of de
struction and rapine; and in the ravages of a similar
kind, which his brother and he afterwards committed
in Ireland. But this was the age of chivalry, and,
next to valour, courtesy, and particularly courtesy to
the weak and the helpless,—to women and to prison
ers, was the virtue most prized in a true knight.
The courtesy and kindness here shewn by Bruce to
his captives, proceeded, therefore, most probably, from
12
130 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
his love of approbation, which we have seen to be
great. This is not a solitary instance; it was the
fashion of the day. It was exhibited, perhaps, with
somewhat more of ostentation and theatrical effect, by
the Black Prince and his father, in their behaviour to
King John, of France, after the battle of Poictiers.
Perhaps, also, in so politic a prince as Bruce, there
might be some regard here to his interest as well as to
his glory. Hardly yet secured upon his throne, it
might have appeared an object of consequence even
to the Scottish monarch, to obtain the friendship and
good will of some of the rich and powerful nobles of
England. Cautiousness and secretiveness may, there
fore, have had a share in producing King Robert's
kind treatment of his captives.*
The only occasion on which Bruce's caution seems
to have deserted him, was in his listening so easily to
the offer made to his family of the Crown of Ireland.
Even here his caution prevailed so far, as to prevent
him from accepting that crown for himself; but in per
mitting his brother Edward to accept it, he must have
seen, at least he had reason to fear, that he was en
gaging in an enterprise beyond his means. But his
ambition and love of glory had for once overcome his
original cautious temper; and these, we may suppose,
were excited, in no small degree, by the prosperous
state of his affairs at home, and particularly by his
wonderful success at Bannockburn; which action, it
is said, for a time raised the confidence of the Scots,
* "There might be policy in this," says Sir Walter Scott, "as
Bruce would naturally wish to acquire the good opinion of the
English barons, who were at this time at great variance with their
king. But it also well accords with his high chivalrous charac
ter."—Lord of the Met. Notes to Canto VI. p. 491.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 131
and dispirited the English to such a degree, that no
superiority of numbers would induce the latter to
meet the former in battle. The power which is, per
haps, most liable to' this kind of excitement from ex
ternal causes, is hope, which we have seen in Bruce
was large: and this will sufficiently account for a step,
which, in point of strict prudence, he ought not to
have taken.
The behaviour of Bruce in what has been called
his Black Parliament,—his dexterity in first drawing
within his grasp,—and his promptness and severity in
seizing, condemning and executing so many of his
barons, convicted of treasonable practices,—shew in
a strong light almost all his characteristic peculiari
ties,—cautiousness, seeretiveness,firmness, self-esteem
and destructiveness. Had any one of these been want
ing, Bruce could hardly have done what he did upon
that occasion. Either he would have failed in taking
some of the necessary precautions, or he would have
let out his design before he was ready to execute it;
or he would have failed, for want of the requisite
proof; or he would have faltered in the execution, and
extended to some of the offenders (some of them were
his own near connections) the royal mercy. But
nothing of all this happened. The first who suffered
was David Abernethy, the King's sister's son.
Boece relates, that "the King wald fain that he had
been saifit; nochtheless he was sa rigorous on the laif,
that it might not be esaly done. And becaus na man
labourit for him, he was heidit, with great lament of
pepil: for he was haldin the flower of chivalry, and
had fochtin mony yeris afore, with great honour and
victory, aganis the Turkis. On the morrow, all the
remanent conspiratoris war heidit, in the samen man
132 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
ner, but ony mercy." This is all quite conformable
to the character indicated by the development before
us; and, indeed, we need only look at this to be as
sured, that, however he might at times appear the
courteous knight, or the kind father of his people,
it must have been a fearful thing to have incurred the
anger of The Bruce.
The secretiveness of Bruce is no where better dis
played than in his sarcastic reply to the messengers
of the Pope, when he returned his Holiness' letters
unopened, because they were not addressed to him as
King,—and when, although he must have been highly
displeased at being denied this title, he dissembled his
displeasure, and addressed the messengers, as is said,
"with a mild and pleasant countenance." The nego-
ciations which afterwards took place to induce his
Holiness to yield this punctilio, and to address him by
the title of King, are no less indicative of this quality.
Randolph, who acted as the ambassador of Bruce
on this occasion, proved himself to be a consummate
politician, unless, as is likely, he acted by the direc
tions and according to the instructions given him by
Bruce himself. The mode in which the business
was opened, under the pretence of asking leave for
Randolph himself to repair to-theHoly Land,—the
dexterity with which, when this first and principal
request of Randolph was refused, other matters
were brought forward and discussed touching the re
conciliation between England and Scotland,—leaving
this, which was really the chief object of his mission,
to be brought in at the end, as a matter by the bye,
and of no consequence, shews a degree of diplomatic
art, or, shall we call it cunning? which has rarely
been excelled, even in the annals of Papal intrigue.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 133
The ambassador of the northern prince proved himself
on this occasion an overmatch both for the Reverend
Pontiff and the King of England.
Bruce had been obliged at Bannockburn to risk
the fate of himself and his kingdom upon a single bat
tle; but he did so, as we have already said, against his
will; and notwithstanding all the glory he obtained
on that memorable day, he never would repeat so
hazardous an experiment. In his future wars with
England, his constant practice was to annoy his enemy
by sudden and destructive inroads, and to retreat be
fore a sufficient force could be brought to oppose him.
And when the English invaded Scotland in return, he
commanded the country to be. laid waste, and all the
cattle to be driven away before them, so that they
could neither find an enemy to fight, nor food to sub
sist on. On one occasion, we are told, this had been
done so effectually, that, after overrunning all the
country south of the Forth, the English could meet
with no other spoil than a lame bull, which had been
left at Tranent; and, on its being brought to him, the
English General asked if that was all they had got;
and being told that it was, he declared "he never had
seen so dear a beast." Here cautiousness seems to be
carried even to a degree of excess, and, it must also
be confessed, somewhat at the expense of benevolence.
But Bruce is not singular in considering it the duty
of a monarch, in making war, to take the most effectual
means of annoying his enemy, without regarding the
sufferings to which he exposes that enemy, or his own
unoffending subjects.
Quite akin to this, were the advices which Bruce
is said to have given on his death-bed, for the guidance
of his successors. These were three in number:
12*
134 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
First, Never to make one person Lord of the Isles:
Second, Never to engage against England with the
whole forces of the kingdom at once: and, Thirdly,
Never to remain longer at peace with England than
three or four years at the most. The reason of the
first advice obviously was, that the islands were too
great and extensive to be safely put under any one
subject, for, if he choose to cast off his allegiance, it
might be a hard matter, from their difficulty of access,
to reduce him to obedience. For the second, the rea
son assigned was, that, in case of a defeat, the whole
kingdom might not be laid at the mercy of the enemy,
but that there might still be some force left to cope
with him. And, for the third, that a long peace might
make the people indolent and averse to war; and that
so the English, whose troops were kept in constant
exercise by the perpetual wars with France, might
acquire such a superiority in military affairs, as to be
able to conquer the kingdom. These directions are
remarkable for that plain practical sense which seems
to have characterised the understanding of Bruce,
and do not import a degree of thinking beyond what
we have seen indicated by his frontal development.
They correspond also entirely, and in every point,
with his endowment of the propensities and senti
ments.
The last act of his life, in directing his heart to be
carried to Palestine, there to be deposited in the Holy
Sepulchre, is not only accordant with his large vene
ration and hope,—the creed of these times inducing a
belief that this service, or rather the performance of
this vow, would be acceptable to God, and serve as an
atonement for the sins of his life; but it would also
gratify his adhesiveness, to think that this service
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 135
would be performed by his friend, Sir James Douglas,
the greatest and most favoured of all his subjects, who
had adhered* to him through every extremity of good
and evil fortune. It would also be highly agreeable
to his self-esteem and love of approbation, as he would
consider that such a disposal of the heart of so re
doubted a monarch could not fail to add to his glory
and renown.
We have now considered most of the remarkable
events of Bruce's life, and have seen that his beha
viour in all of them corresponds most remarkably and
minutely with his cerebral development. Not only
is this the case, but we may even go the length of say
ing, that were the development in any respect differ
ent from what it is, it would not have corresponded
with the character of Bruce, as exhibited in his ac
tions. Had the benevolence been very large, this, to
be sure, might have been consistent with his kindness
tohis prisoners at Bannockburn; but it would have been
contrary to almost every other action of his life;—his
want of concern for the lives and sufferings of others,
whenever these stood in the way of his interest or his
ambition; while his courteous behaviour on the occa
sion alluded to, is sufficiently explained, and by au
thors not phrenologists, by reference to other feelings.
Had conscientiousness been large, it would have ac
counted, no doubt, for his observance of the agree
ment made with De Mowbray regarding Stirling:
but how would this be reconciled with his light ob
servance of treaties and oaths upon other occasions?
It will also be sufficiently gathered from what has been
already observed, that had any of the propensities and
sentiments which we have seen to have been pre
dominant in Bruce, been found in a state of less
136 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
energy than they actually were, his conduct could
not have been what it was on many, or almost on tfny
important crisis of his life. Had it not been for his
combativeness and destruciiveness, self-esteem, firm
ness, secretivencss, cautiousness, and love of approba
tion, all in large measure, and all co-operating to one
end, Bruce could never have succeeded, in what cer
tainly constitutes his greatest glory, the Restoration
of the Scottish monarchy. Had any one of these
been wanting, he would probably have failed. His
brother Edward was equally brave, but Edward
Bruce could not have been the deliverer of his coun
try, from his want of prudence and foresight, (Cau
tiousness anil Secretivencss.) Had he been more
scrupulous and just, more benevolent and compassion
ate than he was, he would also probably have failed,
or rather, it is more likely, that he would never have
made the attempt. It thus appears that Bruce was
fitted for accomplishing the great business which was
given him to do, not only by the qualities he did pos
sess, but negatively by the very want of others, which
he did not possess. Bruce, at one time after the bat
tle of Methven, was reduced to perfect desperation.
If he had possessed a great reflecting head, and seen
the relation of cause and effect clearly, he probably
never would have attempted the liberation of his coun
try. Bonaparte gave up in far less desperate cir
cumstances. But Bruce instinctively felt courage
that could not be shaken by adversity, ambition that
could not be quenched by disappointment, and energy
that was fit for every effort; and, acting instinctively
under these, without comprehensive views, he suc
ceeded, when, with greater reflection, he would not
have made the attempt.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 137
There seem to be, on some occasions, men who are
raised up by Providence, as instruments for accom
plishing certain great events or revolutions; and just
such an instrument Bruce may be considered to
have been.
While, however, I cannot help considering the coin
cidence between Bruce's development and the events
of his life, as most remarkable and striking, I think it
proper to observe, by way of caution, (whatcannotbetoo
often impressed both on Phrenologists and on the public)
that without a previous knowledge of these events, of
the situation which he held, or ofthe actions he perform
ed, no one, from merely examining the development,
could take upon him to say what these actions were,
or even what they were likely to be. Dr. Spurz-
heim declares, in the commencement of his Physiog
nomical System, that he cannot speak of actions, and
this declaration should never be forgotten by those
who study Phrenology. No one could tell on exam
ining this head, whether it was the head of a great
and a valiant chief of a rude or semi-barbarous people,
or of a common traitor or murderer. We see that
the character, as formerly observed, is one of great
power, and we know the nature of the power; but it
is impossible to predicate whether it is to seek its
gratification in a legitimate or illegitimate sphere of
action. That depends upon circumstances which can
not be discovered from the development. Thus, one
of the sentiments upon which the character of Bruce
mainly hinges, is his love of approbation. But it is
obvious, that the direction which this was to take, and
the effect it was to have upon his character and con
duct, depended, in a great degree, upon the opinions,
the modes of thinking and acting, which prevailed in
138 KING ROBERT BRUCE.
his day, and the conduct which was then in vogue;
or, in other words, which was generally approved.—
His conscientiousness, comparison, and causality, are
not so large as to render him a rule to himself,.indepen-
dently of the character of the age in which he lived.
Bruce happened to be born when the ideas of chivalry
prevailed, and when the highest meed of praise was
reserved for the fearless valour, the punctilious hon
our, and the generous courtesy of knighthood; and
hence the corresponding effects which this sentiment
had upon his behaviour. Bruce would have pos
sessed a large self-esteem, although he had not hap
pened to be born in an exalted station, and the heir
of a crown. But who does not see that this circum
stance, though merely external, gives a direction to
the propensity which otherwise it could never have
received? Had Bruce been a man of ordinary rank,
he might have continued a gay gallant at the court of
Edward, and sought to distinguish himself, by out
shining his compeers at feasts and tournaments, and
by courting the favours of the fair; or engaged in the
holy wars, and sought renown by fighting with the
Infidels in Palestine. Had his birth and station been
low, he might have been induced, by discontent, to
engage in plots and conspiracies and had he done so,
we might say of him,
"Here was a man
Fit to disturb the peace of all the world."
Like Alcibiades, he might have outdone the Spar
tans in abstemiousness, and the Persians in splendour
and profusion. In short, it depended in a great de
gree upon the situation in which he might be cast,
what his conduct should be, and whether his life
should be a blessing to his country, or the reverse.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 139
Fortunately for him, and for Scotland, it so happened
that he was placed, I might say forced, into a situation
which called forth all his powers in their most favour
able modes of action; and hence his name has come
down to us as the greatest and wisest of our kings,
the brave defender of Scotland's liberty, and the great
vindicator of Scotland's independence; nor while we
continue to enjoy the blessings of freedom, and the
administration of equal laws, can we ever cease to
remember with veneration and gratitude the name of
Robert Bruce.
ARTICLE VI.
[From the Transactions of the Phrenological Society of Edinburg.]
CASE IN WHICH THE NATURAL TALENTS AND DIS
POSITIONS OP THE REVEREND Mr. M. WERE IN
FERRED FROM THE DEVELOPMENT OF HIS BRAIN.
Communicated by Mr. Brian Donkin.
In March, 1821, I transmit
ted to Mr. George Combe,
in Edinburg, a cast of the
head of a gentleman, stating that
the individual in question had
received a good education, and
moved in enlightened society,
but without mentioning the
name, or any circumstances of
his life or profession; and I re
quested that he would give a
sketch of the natural talents
and dispositions which the de
velopment appeared to indicate.
In a letter dated 31st March in
that year, he sent me the fol
lowing remarks.
"The cerebral development of the gentleman whose
cast you sent, appears to have been as follows.*
* The Committee beg to remark, that, at the time this develop
ment was stated, the Society had not fixed on specific terras to be
used in denoting the relative size of the organs; so that some ex-
REV. MR. M. 141
Amativeness, rather small.
Philoprogenitiveness, large.
Concentrativeness, moderate.
Adhesiveness, moderate.
Combativeness, small.
Destructiveness, pretty full.
Constructiveness, moderate.
Acquisitiveness, rather full.
Secretiveness, rather full.
Self.esteem, large.
Love of Approbation, very
large.
Cautiousness, very large.
Benevolence, large.
Veneration, very large.
Hope, large.
Ideality, not large.
Conscientiousness, very large.
Firmness, large.
Individuality, small.
Form, moderate.
Locality, large.
Tune, rather full.
Comparison, full.
Causality, full.
Wit, moderate.
Imitation, full.
Wonder, not large.
"The individual would be decidedly moral and in
tellectual, and little prone to animal indulgence. He
pressions occur here, which are not now generally used. Their
meaning, however, is so obvious, that no change or explanation
appears necessary. They increase in the order "small, moderate,
large." The practice of measurement also, was not then resorted
to; but they subjoin the dimensions taken from the cast in posses
sion of the Society, Bust 26., the integuments being included . The
only correction which the measurement suggests on the develop
ment, as abovonoted, is to state Destructiveness "large," and Cau
tiousness ''rather large," in place of "pretty full," and "very
large," shades of difference which do not affect any of the points
in the sketch.
From junction of occipital spine with Philoprogen- In.
itiveness to Lower Individuality, .... 8 2-8
Concentrativeness to Comparison, .... 7 6-8
Meatus auditorius externus to occipital spine, 4 3-8
Ditto to Lower Individuality, 5 7-8
Ditto to Benevolence, 6 5-8
Ditto to Firmness, . . - 6 5-8
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, .... 6 4-8
Secretiveness to Secretiveness, . . .
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, . . . .
Ideality to Ideality
Constructiveness to Constructiveness, . . 6
6 3-8
6 6-8
5 1-8
13
142 REV. MR. M.
would be scrupulous and honourable in the extreme,
with a great aversion to debt; ambitious of distinction,
or desirous to please, but exceedingly modest, and
most esteemed by those who knew him best. Hisjus
tice, though great, would not be severe, but would be
softened by benevolence, and elevated by veneration.
The intellect would be penetrating, but would have a
greater tendency to speculate on moral than on physi
cal causes. He would shine more in the private cir
cle than in public. His understanding would be slow,
but sound in its conclusions; and he would be much
troubled with doubts and difficulties in his decisions.
The individual would not worship wealth, but hewould
have a prudent regard for property, and would calcu
late his expenses and his income, so as to keep thefor
mer considerably within the latter. He would be
alive to music. He would be religious, and a sincere
worshipper of God."
Mr. Combe's letter was shewn to the surgeon, from
whom I obtained an account of the case, and who at
tended the patient during his illness: had known him
for many years, and opened the head after death. He
requested to have a copy of that part of the letter
pointing out the development of the organs, and the
phrenological deductions. He returned it with a note,
merely saying, "I have marked with aline underneath
those parts of the estimate which are correct." (To
save repetition, the words so marked are printed in
italics in the foregoing copy.) By a strict injunction
from the medical gentleman, who is of the highest res
pectability, and my own promise given to him, I am
bound not to commit his name to paper; nor did he
even tell me the name of his late patient, the subject
in question; but, in describing the case afterwards to
BET. MR. M. 143
* tuird person, a Mr. P. of Charing-Cross, he inform
ed me it must of necessity be that of Mr. M., upwards
of thirty years minister of a Baptist congregation, of
which he himself was a member. I do not, therefore,
think that I commit any breach of confidence in stating
thus far. It appears that Mr. M. was first brought up
to the trade of watch-making, but which he soon aban
doned for pursuits more congenial to his taste and in
clinations. By great application he became a scholar
and a man of considerable learning.' Besides what I
learned from his medical friend, Mr. P. spoke of him
in terms of the highest respect, as a minister esteem
ed by all his congregation; as a man of most exempla
ry conduct, and of the strictest integrity; he also
agrees as to his eare and economy in the management
of his own affairs.
The anatomical description of the brain, as given
by the gentleman who opened the head, I cannot send
lo the Society at present, as I find the copy I have too
imperfect. He concludes, however, by saying, "It
appears that the parts of the brain which had become
pulpy, were those in which Gall places the organs
of Prudence and Circumspection ( Cautiousness) for
which this gentleman had been remarkable prior to
his illness, which lasted six years, but which he rap
idly lost after its commencement. He became at length
perfectly foolish; his mind retaining no distinct ideas)
except on theological subjects, on which he always
gave consistent answers."
144 REV. MR. M.
ANALYSIS OF THE PRECEDING SKETCH.
By Mr. George Combe.
It will be observed, that Mr. Donkin communicat
ed the information that the individual whose cast he
sent, "had received a good education, and moved in
enlightened society." I was thus made acquainted
with the causes which tended to modify the direction
of the natural dispositions; but, besides, the head stands
in one of the extremes formerly mentioned, in which
nature controls rather than is modified by external
circumstances.
The first observation is, "that the individual would
be decidedly moral and intellectual, and little prone to
animal indulgence." This inference is founded on the
great preponderance of the organs of the moral senti
ments and intellectual faculties, over those of the ani
mal propensities. It is necessary only to glance at the
cast or engraving of the head to perceive, that there
is very little brain at the base behind the ear; that the
coronal surface, the seat of the moral sentiments, is
not only broad, but elevated, and that the portion of
brain extending from the ear to the forehead, includ
ing the organs of the intellectual powers, is also large.
The next observation is, "that he would be scrupulous
and honourable in the extreme, with a great aversion
to debty The organs of conscientiousness, venera
tion, and love of approbation, are all large, so thafthe
natural sentiment ofjustice,—the dictates of religion,—
and regard to the opinion of society,—would concur
in prompting the individual to virtuous conduct. In
several instances in real life, in which a large devel
opmentof conscientiousness was joined with self-esteem
REV. MR. M. 145
and love of approbation large, I have observed, that
the individual was as anxious to keep out of debt, as
a person of opposite dispositions was ready to get in
to it; and, on this observation, the above inference is
founded.
"Ambitious of distinction or desirous to please."
This characteristic depends on the love of approba
tion. If the individual move in the public eye, this
sentiment will prompt him to desire distinction; if in
a private sphere, only to please those with whom he
associates.
"Exceedingly modest, and most esteemed by those
who knew him best." Modesty arises from a great en
dowment of love of approbation, cautiousness and
conscientiousness, generally joined with a considera
ble self-esteem, and sometimes with moderate or de
fective combativeness; and this combination occurs in
the individual in question. Being modest, necessari
ly implies that he would be most esteemed by those
who knew him best.
"His justice, though great, would not be severe; but
would be softened by benevolence, and elevated by ven
eration." This remark explains itself, because the
three organs mentioned in it are all large. A large
conscientiousness, joined with much firmness and des-
tructiveness, and little benevolence, produces extreme
rigidness, and even severity of disposition. The in
dividual will be disposed to perforin justice up to the
very letter of his obligation; but he will have a ten
dency to exact it with equal inflexibility, however in
capable the person who owes it may be to satisfy thus
amply his demands. The sentiment of conscientious
ness, when combined with veneration and benevolence^
13*
146 REV. MR. W.
produces dispositions, charitable, long-suffering, and
humane, as well as scrupulously just.
" The intellect would be penetrating, but would have
a greater tendency to speculate on moral than on phy
sical causes."—The intellect takes its direction from
the predominating propensities or sentiments with
which it is combined. When joined with much ac
quisitiveness, for example, it will be directed towards
procuring wealth. When combined with great love
of approbation and ideality, it will be turned towards
acquiring fame. In the individual in question, con-
structiveness, and the knowing organs in general, which
give the tendency to mechanical and physical pursuits,
are moderate in size; whereas the organs of the moral
sentiments, which furnish the mind with those feel
ings on which ethics are founded, and the reflecting
faculties which take cognizance of these, are possess
ed to a considerable extent. Hence the direction of
his intellect towards moral speculations was inferred.
"He would shine more in the private circle than in
public.''''—This arises from natural modesty of dispo
sition, the elements of which have already been ex
plained. "His understanding would be slow, but
sound in its conclusions; but he would be much trou
bled with doubts and difficulties in his decisions" I
have observed, in actual life, that when the endow
ment of cautiousness and conscientiousness preponde
rates over the degree of intellect possessed; and, in
particular, where combativeness, which gives courage,
is small, slowness of decision, and extreme hesitation
are never-failing results. Conscientiousness produ
ces an extreme desire of arriving at absolute truth,
and cautiousness inspires with the fear of not having
reached it; and, unless the intellect be naturally so
REV. MR. M 147
penetrating and comprehensive, as to present a clear
perception of the whole bearing and relations of a
case, at one glance, so as to satisfy these sentiments,
no alternative remains, but for the understanding to
employ repeated efforts to accomplish that which it
cannot effect by one exertion of its powers; with such
a combination of feelings, clear intellectual percep
tions must be obtained, before the mind can feel satis
fied that all is right. Mr. Donkin's correspondent
does not speak of the correctness of this inference in
the individual in question, which I regret, as the point
is of importance. He does not, however, say that it
is erroneous; and, from numerous observations in real
life, I am inclined to think, that if he had possessed
sufficiently close opportunities of observation, he would
have recognised its truth.
"The individual would not worship wealth, but he
would have a prudent regardfor property, and would
calculate his expenses, and his income, so as to keep
the former considerably within the latter."—Acquisi
tiveness gives the desire to obtain property; and self-
esteem produces that regard to self-interest which
prompts one to hold it when acquired; and both of
these are well developed in the subject of the present
case. When to these faculties are added, as in him,
a powerful conscientiousness, cautiousness, and love
of approbation, there is superadded to the selfish
feelings, a great desire of acquiring wealth, as the
means of doing justice, of averting want, and of ob
taining the respect of the world; so that, in the per
son in question, every motive calculated to produce
the effect mentioned in the sketch was combined.
"He would be alive to music."—This evidently de
pends upon the development of the organ of tune.
148 RET. MR. M.
It is not spoken to in the remarks of Mr. Donkin's
friend. "He would be religious, and a sincere wor
shipper of God." This inference is founded on the
possession of the faculties of veneration, hope, and
conscientiousness, joined with a respectable endow
ment of intellect.
The present application of Phrenology is highly
important, because, on its practicability will depend,
in a great degree, the utility of the science. If cere
bral development indicates natural talents and dispo
sitions, then the science will afford some aid in ena
bling parents to dedicate their children to those pur
suits in which they are most fitted to excel, and will
also be useful in enabling mankind in general, to
judge of the qualifications of individuals with whom
they may require to be connected in life. I have re
peated experiments similar to that now detailed, in
ten or twelve instances, and have seen at least ten
cases more, by other phrenologists; and, in all, there
was a great measure of success. At the same time,
it is proper to state, that difficulties occasionally pre
sented themselves, and inferences were sometimes
drawn, which did not correspond with the dispositions
in nature, but, in every such case, it turned out, that an
unusual combination of faculties had presented itself,
the effect of which the phrenologist had not had an
opportunity of ascertaining, by actual observations in
nature. For example, on one occasion, I met with a
combination of large secreliveness, which gives the
desire to conceal, and, when ill directed, leads to
finesse; with large love of approbation, which gives
the desire of publicity and ostentation; a full consci-
entiousness> which produces the sentiment of explicit
REV. MS. M. 149
truth, joined with imitation, which is one ingredient
in a talent for personation,—all in one individual; and,
bein$ then unenlightened by observation concerning
the precise result of the whole acting together, I felt
great embarrassment. A conjecture which was haz
arded, turned out to be, in some points, erroneous.
When, however, the effects of this combination were
explained, a step in advance in the science was gain
ed. Nature is constant; and, as similar causes pro
duce similar effects, on meeting with the same combi
nation in another individual (and several instances
have since occurred,) it was easy to predicate cor
rectly the tendencies which it would produce. Thus
an intimate acquaintance with the cerebral develop
ment of numerous individuals, and ample opportuni
ties of observing the dispositions and talents connSO
ted with each, are indispensably necessary to qualify
any person for the practice of this branch of the sci
ence. Such a degree of reflective power also, as
gives perception of motives, is necessary to the obser
ver; for it is a fact, revealed by Phrenology, that per
sons in whom the reflecting faculties are exceedingly
defective, do not perceive causation either in morals
or in physic. Such persons see actions only as occur
rences, and are blind to the motives which produce
them. They are the loudest scoffers at Phrenology,
and are excusable, in every respect, for being so.
ARTICLE VII.
[From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. 21, 1629.]
REPORT OF MR. COMBE S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Letterfrom Mr. Combe to the Editor ofthe Phrenological Journal.
Edinburg, Wlh June, 1829.
Sir,—At the request of the Council of the Phre
nological Society, I read to an extraordinary meeting
of the Society, held on 14th May, a Report of several
Phrenological Observations made during my late visit
to Dublin. The Society took so much interest in the
details that I am induced to present them to J'Cll for
publication. Allow me, through the medium of your
Journal, to return my best thanks to the gentlemen
whose names are mentioned in the following reports,
for the very kind attention which they showed me
when visiting their institutions, and for the trouble
they have since undertaken to enable me to bring out
the reports in an authentic form. They and every
other individual in Dublin to whom I had occasion to
prefer any request in regard to phrenological observa
tion received my applications in the most liberal, can
did, and philosophic spirit; and I cannot forbear re
marking, that, if the same superiority to prejudice and
enlightened desire to afford facility to investigation
existed in other cities, Phrenology would speedily be
recognized as an undoubted truth. I am, &c.
Geo. Combe.
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 151
I. CASE OP BRIDGET SMITH.
Mercer's Hospital, Dublin, 15th. April, 1829.
Present,—Surgeon Auchinleck, and about twenty
medical students.
A woman was presented to Mr. Combe as a conva
lescent patient, and he was requested to examine her
head, and say, if there was any thing remarkable in
the development of the organs. Mr. Combe request
ed one of the young gentlemen to write down the de
velopment, which he dictated as follows:—
Amativencss, large. Benevolence, pretty well devel-
Philoprogenitiveness, large. oped.
Combativehess, large. Veneration,considerable,though
Destructiveness, large. not large.
Secretiveness, large. Hope, deficient.
Love of Approbation, large. Conscientiousness, deficient.
Cautiousness, large. Perceptive organs, rather above
Constructivencss, rather large. the average.
Acqaisitiveness, large. Reflective do. average:
Ideality, deficient on one side. Temperament, lymphatic.
The gentlemen present then retired with Mr. Combe
to another apartment, when Mr. Combe remarked,
that he understood the woman was not insane, (Mr. Au
chinleck said she was not.) Mr. Combe added, "it is
impossible to speak of actions; all that I can do is to
indicate dispositions or tendencies. I shall mark the
organs from which the characteristic traits of her con
duct will most probably have proceeded." He then
prefixed a mark to the organs, which we have print
ed in italics, viz. large Amativeness, Philoprogenitive-
ness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Cautiousness,
and Love of Approbation, with deficient Hope and
Conscientiousness.
152 mr. combe's visit to DUBLIK.
Mr. Auchinleck asked what combination gives the
tendency to suicide? Mr. Combe answered, that in
his System of Phrenology, under the head of Cautious
ness, it is stated, that "Dr. A. Combe examined a con
siderable number of suicides in the Morgue at Paris,
and found in them Hope generally small, with Cau
tiousness and Destructiveness large."
The gentlemen present remarked, that these organs
were marked by Mr. Combe; the first, Hope, as defi
cient, and Cautiousness and Destructiveness as large.
Mr. Auchinleck then stated, that the woman's name
was Bridget Smith, and that she had twice attempted
suicide, and was now a patient in consequence of her
second attempt,
Mr. Combe asked what was the cause of her at
tempt? The gentlemen present had not been inform
ed of the cause; and Mr. Combe said, "I feel consid
erable anxiety to learn this, and have a strong antici
pation that you will find it connected with the domes
tic affections, or Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness,
and Love of Approbation.
Mr. Auchinleck requested one of the young gen
tlemen to proceed to the nurse of the ward in which
Bridget Smith was received, and to inquire what was
known about her history.
He returned in a few minutes, and stated that her
history was well known in the ward; that she had
been married seven years, had no children, that her
husband had not lived with her for fifteen months; and
that jealousy was the cause of her attempt at suicide
both times. She herself stated, that "she wished to
die before her husband's eyes, and that she loves the
very ground he walks on."
One of the young gentlemen present remarked, that
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 153
previously he had conceived that she had children, as
he had seen her frequently with one on her knee; but,
on inquiry just now, he was informed that the child
belonged to one of the other patients.
2. CASE OF MR. OLDHAM.
On 15th April, 1829, Mr. Combe was taken by Mr.
Carr, one of the directors of the Bank of Ireland, to
see that establishment. In one of the apartments Mr.
Carr presented to Mr. CQmbe a respectable looking
gentleman, above the middle period of life, telling him
that he was an extraordinary character, and request
ing him to say for what qualities he was distinguished.
Mr. Combe had not the slightest idea who the gentle
man was. After examining the head, he dictated the
following remarks on his development to Mr. Carr,
who wrote it down:—
"Anterior lobe, connected with the intellectual
faculties, uncommonly large; perceptive and reflec
tive organs nearly equal, and both large; Individuality,
Size, and Weight, predominant; Tune and Number,
large; Language, large; Benevolence and Veneration,
large; Imitation, large.
"The head indicates a general capacity for painting
and the imitative arts; and, in general, the mind, if
turned to mechanics or any other similar pursuit, is so
constituted as to excel."
Mr Carr then mentioned, that the gentleman's name
was Mr. Oldham, and proceeded to show Mr. Combe
his works. He was taken to a separate building, where
a steam-engine was in motion, which had been con
structed from Mr. Oldham's drawings and projection.
14
154 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Up stairs he found the engine printing bank-notes, and
registering the paper given out and the printed notes
returned. This is done by machinery all under a
locked cover, so that the workmen apply at an open
ing left in the cover, and on laying down, say 100
notes, the machine instantly withdraws them, and gives
out 100 slips of paper for another printing, registers
both numbers, and tells in detail, from 1 up to 20,000
the number of impressions thrown off. Farther, it
damps the paper, then in five minutes expresses the
surplus moisture, and presents it ready for printing.
This machinery was contrived and executed by Mr.
Oldham. He constructed likewise another machine,
which prints the dates and numbers on the notes, re
gisters and throws up the numbers from unity appar
ently to an indefinite extent, so that the printer just
puts on the ink and turns the lever, and all the rest
is performed by the machinery. Mr. Oldham also
showed Mr. Combe two very pretty profiles in water-
colours, painted by himself, and told him that he had
constructed an organ with a vox humana pipe, which
delivers syllables in a manner resembling human ar
ticulation. Finally, Mr. Oldham described all these
things with a fluency which, as Mr. Combe remarked
afterwards, manifested a great organ of language.
Mr. Oldham was originally a miniature painter, but
by good fortune the Bank Directors took him into
their employment, and he has been a treasure to them.
Pointing to the operative persons occupied in printing
the notes, he said to Mr. Combe, "All these are your
countrymen,—all Scotch. Their superior steadiness
has been their recommendation."
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 155
3. RICHMOND LUNATIC ASYLUM, DUBLIN.
This Asylum was founded about 14 years ago, for
the reception of pauper lunatics. It contains at pre
sent above 300 patients. None are admitted without
a medical certificate of insanity, and an affidavit of
poverty. Dr. Jackson is the physician, and Mr.
Johnston the surgeon. Dr. Crawford acts at present
as Dr. Jackson's temporary substitute.
Mr. Combe visited this institution on 20th April,
1829, in presence of Dr. Crawford,—Mr. Grace, the
Moral Governor,—Major Edgeworth, Governor of
House of Industry,—Dr. Cumming, Assistant Physi
cian to ditto, and Dr. Mollan.
Dr. Crawford stated that he had written down the
characteristic features of several cases of insanity, and
proposed that Mr. Combe should examine the heads
of the patients, and deliver his opinion on them, and
thereafter that the written notes and Mr. Combe's re
marks should be compared.
Mr. Combe observed, that he had no objection to
make the experiment for the sake of gaining informa
tion; that a small organ may become diseased as well
as a large one, and in these instances the head would
not indicate the features of the alienation; however,
that disproportionate development of particular organs
is itself one cause of insanity; and, besides, when any
organs are particularly large, the feelings connected
with them generally show themselves strongly in the
manifestations, even although they should not be the
seat of diseased affections; that, therefore, in the ma
jority of cases, the form of the brain ought to present
indications of the mental condition of the patients,
156 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
and that with these explanations he was ready to pro
ceed. Mr. C. added, that although he had on other
occasions examined the heads of a number of insane
patients, he had not before attempted to predicate the
features of the insanity from the heads, and therefore
this was to himself an experiment; that he did not
know.how far he might succeed, but it was interesting
to ascertain what effect the mere form of the brain
produced in insanity; that his inexperience threw ob
stacles in the way of his success, but that in science
experience was to be obtained only by practice. He
said that he would point out and write down the or
gans that were prominently developed or very defi
cient in each case, and then make his remarks; after
which he would be glad to see the notes prepared be
fore his arrival.
The hair of the patients was in general worn
short, and the facilities of observation were thus
increased.
We print the observations of Mr. Combe and the
notes of Dr. Crawford in separate columns, in the
order in which the patients were introduced. Mr.
Combe underlined the organs on which he consi
dered the insanity to depend, and these are printed
in italics.
In every instance Mr. Combe pointed out the de
velopment to all the gentlemen present. He made
them feel it, and contrast it with the heads of other
individuals in the room; and requested them to judge
for themselves, and not to look on him as performing
a stage-trick, or doing any thing which they could
not learn to do as well as he, or far better, as their
opportunities were superior.
MR. COMBE'S VI 5IT TO DUBLIN. 157
Jlfr. Combe's Remarks.
Patient's name, Lynch.
Largest, Self-esteem
organs, Wonder
Causality
Language
Combaliveness
Also large Amativeness
Philoprogenitiveness
Concentrativeness
Acquisitiveness
Love of Approbation
Firmness
Full Veneration
Deficient Conscientiousness.
Mr. Combe said, that he con
sidered Wonder, which, when
diseased, gives notions of super
natural agency and inspiration,
and Self-esteem, as probably the
leading sources of alienation in
this case; that Causality and
Language should also be con
spicuously manifested.
Patient's name, E. S.*
Large Amativeness
Philoprogenitiveness
Very \&TgeDestrucliveness
Combativcness
Large Self-esteem
Cautiousness
Moral or
gans,de
ficient,
particu
larly Veneration and Hope
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
Patrick Lynch, aged 42, a
cooper. Two and a half years
ill. Married, and has children.
Monomania. Religious pride,
with vivid imagination and the
highest degree of excitement,
requiring restraint; fancies him
self inspired and endowed with
omnipotence; frequent halluci
nations; visits from heaven, &c.
great flow oflanguage in a style
quite superior to his rank in life;
drinking the cause of his illness;
second attack.
Note.—"Dr. Gall remarked
ed in the first fanatic who fell
under his observation, a large
development of tho part of the
brain now marked 'Wonder,'
and subsequently met with many
similarinstances."—SeeCombe's
System, p. 226 Editor.
Patient E. S., aged 34. Ten
years since first admission.
Total want of moral feeling
and principle, great depravity of
character, leading to the indul
gence of every vice, and to the
commission even of crime. Con
siderable intelligence, ingenuity,
and plausibility;a scourge to his
family from childhood; turned
out of the army as an incorrigi
ble villain; attempted the life of
■ Where the names are not published the patients have relations,
out of delicacy to whom they are withheld.
14*
158 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Mr. Combe'sRemarks.
Moderate Conscientiousness
Ofthe morOBenevolence is rath-
al organsj er well developed
Intellectual"! Rather well devel-
organa J oped
The patient was withdrawn,
and Mr. Combe added: This is
the worst head I ever saw. The
combination is worse than Hare's
—Combativeness and Destruc-
tiveness are fearfully large, and
the moral organs altogether ve
ry deficient. Benevolence is the
best developed of them, but it is
miserably small compared with
the organs ofCombativeness and
Destructiveness. I am surpris
ed that that man was not execut
ed before he became insane.
Patient's name, Dowling.
Enormous
ly large, Self-esteem
Ditto Firmness
Large Amativeness
Combativeness
Rather
large Destructiveness
Adhesiveness
Benevolence
Full Acquisitiveness
Prettygood Intellect
Deficient Cautiousness
The organs in great excess
are Self-esteem and Firmness.
Patient's name, Bayly.
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
a soldier; repeatedly flogged;
has since attempted to poison
his father. (See letter from Dr.
Crawford about this patient,
Article XV. of this Number.—
Editor.)
ly large, Destructiveness
Ditto Secretiveness
Joseph Dowling, silk-weaver,
aged 29. Two years ill. Un
married.
Monomania. High pride. An
emperor. Very overbearing,
quarrelsome, and dangerous,but
is easily tamed.
Note.—"When the organ of
Self-esteem becomes excited by
disease, the individual imagines
himself to be a king, an empe
ror, a transcendent genius, or
even the Supreme Being."—
Combe's System, p. 164.—Edi
tor.
George Bayly, clerk, aged 39;
nine years since last attack.
Relapsed twice.
Mania. Intermittent. Very
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 159
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Enormous
ly large, Acquisitiveness
Large Self-esteem
Ditto Amativeness
Deficient Moral organs, parti
cularly
Very defi
cient Benevolence, but
Larger Veneration
Moderate Reflecting organs
Pretty large Knowing organs.
The combination is here very
bad, the animal organs greatly
preponderate; Destructiveness is
the largest.
Patient's name, Edmundson.
Very large Destructiveness
Ditto
OT W f-l
cs a «
3 3 K «
TJ „ O O J
* O J= c
Large
Love of Approbation
Hope very large
Wonder, back part of
it considerable
Ideality, back parUof
it large
Amativeness
Adhesiveness
Combativeness
Cautiousness
Moderate Veneration
Deficient Benevolence
Conscientiousness
Reflecting intellect
Moderate Knowing intellect.
It is difficult to point out the
leading features of this case.
The organs of Hope, Wonder,
and Ideality, present an unusual
appearance, corresponding to
malconformation.
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
violent, pugnacious and destruc
tive; sullen and morose. An in
corrigible drunkard and immoral
character.
Christopher Edmundson,cIerk
to a merchant, aged 47. Twelve
years ill. Unmarried.
Monomania, religious. Fan
cied himself Jesus Christ, and
attempted to walk on the sea,
and fast for forty days. Ima
gines now that his body is in
habited by the spirit of another
person; was a clerk and method-
ist, and gave up his employ
ment to go about preaching and
working miracles. At times ir
ritable and violent.
160 ME. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Patient's name, Brady.
Deficient Combativeness
Ditto Hope
Ditto Veneration
Very Defi
cient Ideality
Ditto Tune
Ditto Wit
Large Self-esteem
Ditto Firmness
R. large Benevolence
Ditto Conscientiousness
Considera
ble Cautiousness
Large Individuality
Ditto Eventuality.
The deficient Combativeness,
Hope, Veneration, and Ideality,
and Wit,large Cautiousness and
Conscientiousness, will predis
pose to melancholy.
Patient's name, Mulligan.
Large Philoprogenitiveness
Ditto Secretiveness
Ditto Cautiousness
R. large Acquisitiveness
Deficient Hope
This is another case of melan
choly.
Patient's name, Petit.
Very large Self-esteem
Large Combativeness
Love of Approbation
Hope
Ideality
R. large Wit
Large Philoprogenitiveness
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
George Brady, servant, aged
37. Twelve years since first at
tack. Has relapsed. Unmarried.
Melancholy. Great timidity
of disposition. Fancies he waa
accused of theft, and has con
stant apprehension of punish
ment, either human or divine.
A variety of hallucinations on
this subject. Gentle and kind.
His master, to whom he was but-
tler, was robbed, and although
the thief was discovered, this
occasioned his mental derange
ment.
Matthew Mulligan, aged 39,
cabinet.maker. One and a half
years ill.
Melancholy. Religious de
spondency. Very silent; uncom
municative; suspicious and mo
rose. Is married, and has a
family; for the fate of whom he
shows great anxiety.
James Petit, shopkeeper, aged
32. One year ill. Married. Has
one child.
Mania, intermittent. Very
violent, combative, and brutal.
A high opinion of himself. Fan
cies he has great riches, and
was giving away all his property
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 161
Mr. Combe's Remarks. Dr. Ctauford's Remarks.
Adhesiveness to the ruin of his family. Has
Firmness a good deal of humour, by the
Locality excitement ofwhich his violence
Comparison is easily subdued.
Full Conscientiousness
Deficient Secretiveness
I feel a difficulty in pointing
out particularorgans in this case,
but have marked (in italics)
those that seem most likely to
determine the character.
Patient's name, Fogharty.
Large Destructiveness
Ditto Love of Approbation
Ditto Cautiousness
Ditto " Wonder, particularly
on one side.
Ditto Imitation
Deficient Hope
Ditto Veneration
Well de
veloped Intellect
The leading organs in this
case are Wonder and Destruc
tiveness.
<
Patient's name, Duff.
Very large Self-esteem
Ditto Firmness
Ditto Secretiveness
Large Destructiveness
Ditto Cautiousness
Deficient Hope
Small Ideality
Thomas Fogharty, a marine
and tailor, aged 39. Ten years
ill.
Monomania, with the singu
lar delusion of his being the Al-
mighty. Says he had no begin
ning and is never to die; that he
can bestow immortalityon whom
he chooses; is very irascible, and
threatens those who offend him
with hell-fire and brimstone.
An extraordinary combination of
servility and humility with these
exalted notions. Very mean in
his appearance; works as a tai
lor, and is an importunate beg
gar. Illness brought on by ex
cessive drinking.
Bryan Duff, collector of min
erals, aged 31. Three years ill.
Melancholy. Deepest dejec
tion. Silent, morose, inactive.
Attempted suicide andto destroy
his own child. After disappoint
ment in his business took to
drinking; was seized with mani-
162 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Small Wit
Ditto Philoprogenitiveness
Moderate Veneration.
The combination here is that
which is described in the works
on Phrenology asleading to me
lancholy and suicide.
Patient's name, M'Evoy.
Mr. Combe pointed out that
this head was regularly develop
ed, that he could not fix upon
any organs as excessive either
in largeness or deficiency. He
wrote down the organs which
were most developed as fol
lows:—
Large Destructiveness
Secretiveness
Love of Approbation
R. large Acquisitiveness
Cautiousness
Full Constructiveness
Moderate Hope
B. small Self-esteem
Consider
able Wonder
Large Knowing Intellect
Full Reflecting do.
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
acal delirium, which has sunk in
to permanent melancholy.
Patient's name, R. J. C
Verylarge Combativeness
Destructiveness
Large Amativeness
Self-esteem
• Veneration
Firmness
Cautiousness
Full Ideality
Rather full Philoprogenitiveness
Michael M'Evoy, aged 28. Ill
nearly one year.
Melancholy. Very silent; dis
inclined to exercise, and the air
of being absorbed in thought.
No one prominent delusion Is
gradually recovering.
Patient's name, R. J. C. aged
34. Four years ill.
Mania, intermittent. During
the paroxysms he conceives him
self to be Jesus Christ, and is
the most furious, treacherous,
and dangerous patient in the in
stitution. Is very athletic and
muscular, and not easily restrain
ed. The violence of the pa-
MR. COMBE'S TISIT TO DUBLIN. 163
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Deficient Conscientiousness
fEMALES.
April 21, 1829.
Patient's name. Hall.
Very large Self-esteem
Large Concentrativeness
Ditto Destructiveness
Ditto Hope
Ditto Veneration
Full Wonder
Fairly-de
veloped Intellect
The organ of Self-esteem is
here by far the most predomi
nant.
Patient's name, C. C.
Enormous
ly large Love ofApprobation
Large Benevolence
Ditto Imitation
Consider
able Wonder
Moderate Self-esteem
Ditto Veneration
Good Intellect
The Love of Approbation is
here out of all ordinary propor
tion to the other organs.
Patient's name, Dunn.
Very large Destructiveness
Ditto Secretiveness
Br. Crawford's Remarks.
roxysms lasts only a few days.
During the intervals he is free
from mental aberration, quiet
and inoffensive; was addicted to
drinking.
FEMALES.
Jane Hall, aged 48. Ill 8
years.
Monomania. Pride. Queen
of France. Hallucinations about
rebels surrounding the house.
Fancies she has rats inside her
forehead. Generally cheerful
and quiet. Illness occasioned
by fright during disturbances in
her country.
Patient's name, C.Caged 30.
Ill 3 years.
Monomania. An air of great
self-importance. Fancies her
self entitled to a fortune with
held from her by her father.
Conceived a conspiracy to be
formed in the country against
her life, and wished to give in
formation on the subject to gov
ernment. Is very vain of her
person. Her mind appears con
stantly engaged in great plans.
Her connexions are very re
spectable. She was domineer
ing in her family, and quarrelled
with her step-mother.
Eliza Dunn, aged 56, nine
years ill.
Monomania. Pride. Fancying
164 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Large Araativeness
Ditto Philoprogenitiveness
Ditto Combativenes8
Ditto Self-esteem
Moderate Love of Approbation
R.deficientVeneration
Ditto Hope
Fairly-developed intellectual
organs.
After Dr. Crawford's remarks
were read, Mr. Combe observ
ed, that in this case the develop
ment had not afforded an index
to the leading features of the
insanity; and that, as formerly
mentioned, diseased affection of
particular organs may exist
which is not indicated by ex
ternal signs.
Patient's name, Nelson.
Large Philoprogenitiveness
Ditto Adhesiveness on one
side, and small on
the other
Ditto Cautiousness
Ditto Love of Approbation
Ditto Conscientiousness
Deficient Hope
Ditto Ideality
Small Intellect
Mr. Combe remarked, that
this combination indicated mel
ancholy.
Patient's name, J. H.
Large Adhesiveness
Ditto Destructiveness
Ditto Secretiveness
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
herself at one time a queen, at
another Ali Pacha, the Dey of
Algiers, or the Grand Turk.
Calls the attendants about her
uncle Paul, or by the name of
some great lord or lady. Very
lively and loquacious, but not
violent.
Eliza Nelson, aged 40. Ill
ten months.
Melancholy after the death of
her husband.
Patient's name, J. H., aged
41. Ill three years.
Monomania, with pride. Oc
casional high excitement. At-
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 165
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Large Cautiousness
Ditto Self-esteem
Ditto Love of Approbation
Deficient Hope
Fairly-de
veloped Intellect
Mr. Combe stated, that he had
underlined.the organs by which
the insanity would be character
ized.
Patient's name, Gallaher.
Mr. Combe stated, that this
head was irregularly formed,
and he had great difficulty in
stating what the development of
the different organs was. He
then wrote as follows,—
Large Amativeness
Adhesiveness
Combativeness
Destructiveness
Self-esteem
Love ofApprobation
Cautiousness
Uncertain on"J
one. s"e' 1 Wonder
probably I
large, J
Deficient Hope on one side
Uncertain Ideality
Not so large Secretiveness as
Cautiousness
Doubtful Acquisitiveness, but,
I think, large
Patient's name, Mooney-
R. large Amativeness
Ditto Self-esteem
Large Love of Approbation
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
tempted her husband's life with
a knife from jealousy, and also
threatened to destroy her chil
dren. Is oflow birth, and with
out education, and married a dis
senting clergyman.
Susan Gallaher, aged 23. Six
months ill.
Monomania. High religious
excitement, with pride. Ima
gines that the welfare of the
people of her country depends
upon her; that she has received
revelations from Heaven, in
forming her of a conspiracy
against their lives and proper
ty. Has seen a bright light in
her room, from which a voice
proceeded. Very excited and
destructive, requiring coercion.
Very importunate to be sent
home.
Alicia Mooney, aged 30 years
Five years ill.
Monomania, and occasional
paroxysms. Fancies.
15
166 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.
Secretiveness .
Destructiveness
Wonder on one side
Deficient Cautiousness
Moderate Combativeness
Pull Ideality
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
she has plenty of money, and is
exceedingly importunate to be al
lowed to return home.
Patient's name, M'Aveeny. Ellen M'Aveeny, aged 28.
Large Philoprogenitiveness Four months ill.
Love of Approbation Puerperal mania. Cheerful
Very large Firmness and humorous, but restless and
Indifferently-formed head,but destructive, and very positive,
nothing very remarkable. requiring coercion.
Patient's name Kelly. Ann Kelly, aged 37. Two
Verylarge Love of Approbation years ill.
Large Secretiveness Monomania. Pride. Imagines
Self-esteem she is Napoleon. Very irascible,
Destructiveness but easily calmed by a little
Ideality praise. Dresses partly as a man.
Imitation Speaks of herself as a man, and
Constructiveness in the third person. Has made
Large Destructiveness herself trowsers, and a highly-
Firmness ornamented cloak with simple
Full Benevolence threads Will never wear a
Veneration cap.
Part of the brain, supposed to
be Wonder, large, or it may be
Hope. Hope moderately de
veloped, unless as before.
The characteristic organs in
this head are Self-esteem and
Love of Approbation, as one
combination, and Constructive
ness, Imitation, and Ideality, as
another.
Patient's name, Thomas. Aurelia Thomas, aged 84
Very large Jlmativeness years. Five years ill.
Large Philoprogenitiveness Monomania. Great anxiety
MR. COMBE'S VI IT TO DUBLIN. 167
Jlfr. Combe's Remarks.
onone side, andfull
on the other
Verylarge Self-esteem
Love of Approbation
Large Firmness
Destructiveness
Veneration
Full Cautiousness
The leading organs in this
case are Amativeness, Self-es
teem, and Love ofApprobation.
Philoprogenitiveness is unequal
ly developed.
Patient's name, O'Neill.
Largest organ is Destructive
ness. None others very re
markable.
Dr. Crawford's Remarks.
after her children. Fancied
they were starving outside the
house, and that she heard their
cries, and insisted constantly up
on her food being taken to them .
Occasionally very violent and
outrageous. Disappointment af
ter seduction the supposed cause
of her illness. Has ceased now
to inquire after her children,
saying, that a voice from heaven
had informed her that they were
dead, and in heaven.
Mary A. O'Neill, aged 35.
Nine years ill.
Mania; high excitement, and
very destructive; requires con
stant restraint; very abusive,
and passionate; no appearance
of moral or intellectual feeling;
rather fatuous.
4. VISIT TO THE PENITENTIARY,
Dublin, 29fA. April, 1829.
Mr. Combe visited the Penitentiary, in presence of
the Governor, the Chaplain, Dr. Crawford, Dr. Cum
ing, Dr. Mollan, Mr. Grace, Major Edgeworth, Dr.
Duncan, &c. After looking at the arrangements of
the house, which seemed excellent, and seeing the
prisoners at work, Mr. C. requested that any ten or
twelve convicts who were nearest the apartment in
which he then was might be introduced. This was
accordingly done. Mr. Combe placed the convicts on
a form, and requested any of the visitors to sit down
on the same seat, with several on each side. Dr.
168 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.*
did so, and Mr. Combe pointed out that the organs of
the animal propensities lying at the base of the brain
were larger, and those of the moral sentiments, lying
on the top of the head, relatively smaller in the heads
of the convicts generally, than in that of Dr.
and the other visitors present. The gentlemen in the
room examined the heads, and recognized this differ
ence as an obvious characteristic.
Mr. Combe then examined more minutely the heads
of these convicts. He noted down in pencil the par
ticular organs which were remarkable for great size
or deficiency relatively to the others, and also the
general qualities which he inferred from the combina
tion of the whole organs in each head. This course
was followed first with several male, and thereafter
with several female convicts. Mr. C. pointed out the
appearances of the heads to the gentlemen present, but
no observations on the characters which they indicated
were made in presence of the prisoners. The party
retired to the Governor's house. Mr. C. then read
aloud his remarks, on which the Governor and Chap
lain delivered an instantaneous opinion. Mr. Combe
subsequently transcribed his notes, and sent them
through Dr. Crawford to the Governor, who very
kindly returned them with a written report, and the
following letter:—
Hill W. Rowan, Esq. to Geo. Combe, Esq.
Richmond General Penitentiary, £
Dublin,28th May, 1829. )
Dear Sir,—Dr. Crawford has favoured me with
the perusal of your observations respecting the dispo
sitions and propensities of the individuals whose heads
you examined in this institution, with a view to phre
nological inquiry.
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 169
I have given to that gentleman a short statement of
my opinions respecting the same persons, formed from
close observation of their dispositions and conduct for
several years; and it will probably be satisfactory to
those who are impressed with your opinions on the
subject of Phrenology, to find that my experience cor
roborates, in almost every instance, what it appears
Phrenology would predicate of the individuals in ques
tion.
It may be right to add, that I wrote the substance of
my observations respecting the great majority of the
persons whose heads you examined before having read
your paper. Indeed, Dr. Crawford concurred with
me in opinion, that such would be the most satisfacto
ry course to pursue.
The Penitentiary, respecting which you desire to
have some information, is a national government es
tablishment, on the principle of the Millbank General
Penitentiary in London. I am, &c.
Hill W. Rowan, Governor.
The following are Mr. Combe's remarks, and Mr.
Rowan's report:—
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—Boy, No. 1, G. K.—This
individual has large Acquisitiveness and Secretive-
ness. He probably has been a thief; but the develop
ment of the moral organs is considerable: he may be
much improved by moral and religious education.
Governor's Report.—No. 1, G. K.—This boy's
conduct has been almost invariably correct since his
confinement. He was convicted, along with his broth
er, of the crime with which he was charged; and I
have no doubt was led into it by his brother's conduct
and importunities. He is lively, thoughtless, and
15*
170 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. ' v
obliging—hasty in his temper, but peaceable—with
very good intellectual powers—argumentative, and a
little cunning. Convicted of larceny.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 2, J. K.—In this in
dividual there are large organs of Cautiousness, Se-
cretiveness, and Acquisitiveness; good Intellect; a de
ficient Combativeness; not large Destructiveness, with
very small Conscientiousness, and deficiency of the
moral organs in general. He has the dispositions of a
thief, but he will scarcely have the courage to steal in
his own person.
Governor''s Report.—No. 2, J. K.—This young
man's conduct has been generally correct since his con
finement; but I apprehend that this is occasioned as
much by cautiousness of disposition, good looking to,
and fear of correction, as from any good qualities he
may possess. I have learned from another prisoner
now in confinement, that his influence led his brother
(No 1,) into the perpetration of several small felonies.
His habit was to commit small thefts, and having de
posited the stolen goods with other persons, by'cun-
ning and ingenuity to throw on them the imputation
of the theft. He is intelligent, and apt to learn. He
was once very anxious to be sent to Botany Bay, from
a conviction, as he stated, that, when discharged from
. hence, he would be guilty of fresh crimes. He was
convicted of larceny.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 3, P. K.—This boy
has large Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness, and large
organs of Intellect and Imitation; but he is very defi
cient in Conscientiousness. He closely resembles tbe
boy John Gibson, (who is mentioned in the phrenologi
cal works, and a cast of whose head Mr. C. had ex
aJH. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 171
hibited at a lecture two days before.) He has the
talents and dispositions of an expert swindler.*
Governor's Report.—No. 3, P. K.—This is in al
most all respects a very bad boy; he is addicted to
swearing, lying, gambling, and every kind of mean
ness and duplicity. He has very considerable intel
lectual powers, and exercises them only to do wrong,
whenever he can do so with impunity. He was con
victed of sheep-stealing.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 4, E. A.—This indi
vidual possesses a very large development of the or
gans of the propensities, particularly of Combative-
ness, Destructiveness, Secretiveness, and Acquisitive
ness, with decidedly deficient moral organs. The
base of the brain is broad, and the coronal surface
narrow. He is a bad subject; his dispositions are to
cruelty and falsehood, and it will be extremely diffi
cult to amend him.
Governor's Report.—No. 4, E. A.—This man has
been.confined for about four years, and for the greater
part of that time has conducted himself quietly, and
with apparent correctness; yet I am persuaded he is a
very worthless character. He has tolerably good in
tellectual powers with respect to matters offact, but
slow at his books. lie is mean and treacherous—will
betray any of his fellow-prisoners to serve himself.—
He is an ill-looking fellow, but very amorous, and
has frequently been detected in holding amorous cor
respondence with the female prisoners. I have not
* We repeat, that Mr. Combe, in drawing his inferences, con
sidered the whole development of the head in each case, and did
not found on the particular organs alone which he noted as pre
dominant. He explained this to the gentlemen accompanying him.
172 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
the least hopes of his reform—on the contrary, am
persuaded that he is incorrigible. His crime was
larceny.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 5, A. M.—Enormous
Destructiveness, Secretiveness, and Acquisitiveness:
deficient moral organs: he would be a fearful thief,
and cruel.
Governor's Report.—No. 5, A. M.—This boy came
to me with a very bad character, which he has fully
justified. His intellectual powers are of a high order,
and he exerts them to the utmost to do all the mischief
in his power. He is without truth or probity, or good
feeling of any kind, possesses great ingenuity, and is
capable of framing a most consistent story with refe
rence to acts in which he has been engaged, not one
of which ever in reality happened. I think when he
becomes a man, he will be a most dangerous character,
and yet I fear he must be soon thrown back on society,
as he is an orphan from Scotland, without a single
friend to look after him. His crime was larceny.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 6, M. M.—This wo
man has Cautiousness, Secretiveness, and Acquisitive
ness, very large, with deficient Conscientiousness.
Governor's Report.—No. 6, M. M.—This woman
is, in my opinion, worthless, and not likely ever to be
reclaimed. She is mild and gentle in her manners
with her superiors, and rather prepossessing in her
appearance, but apt to quarrel with her fellow-prison
ers. She is utterly destitute of truth, and abounds in
low craftiness and cunning. She was convicted of
larceny, and will probably pursue a eourse of theft.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 7, M. G.—Destruc
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 173
tiveness, Secretiveness, and Acquisitiveness very
large: Conscientiousness deficient.*
Governor's Report.—No. 7, M. G.—This girl is
prepossessing in her appearance, gentle in her manner,
and engaging in conversation; but I fear is, notwith
standing, very deficient in moral character. She was
for a considerable time looked upon as superior to
most of her fellow-prisoners, and treated accordingly;
but was discovered, on being placed in trust-worthy
situations, apt to betray her trust, and to show a dis
position to pilfer, to aid others in pilfering, and to jus
tify herself by false statements of facts. She was
committed for larceny, and will, unless attended to by
her friends, probably take to courses of impurity.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 8, M. C.—This wo
man has large Acquisitiveness, Secretiveness, Won
der, and Imitation; but she has also the largest devel
opment of the moral organs of any whom I have ex
amined. My impression is, that she would not com
mit crime in ordinary circumstances, and that there is
diseased or irregular action of the brain.
Governor's Report.—No. 8, M. C.—This woman,
for a long period after her confinement, was coarse,
brutish, selfish, passionate, quarrelsome, and in all
respects unamiable;—for the last year or two her con
duct has been much better, and the violence of her
passions much restrained, if not subdued. She has
very considerable talent, and a strong mind, with
powerful,feelings, but has never turned either to any
* Quietness in prison, where temptation is removed and power
ful restraints are imposed, may often appear where Combativeness
and Destructiveness are large, ifthere be also good Secretiveness,
Cautiousness, and Firmness to restrain them.
174 MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN.
good account that I am aware of. I have always con
sidered her as a very dangerous woman, and not at all
likely to be reclaimed; but have always had a suspi
cion that the violence of her temper and frequent out
rageous conduct were occasioned by bodily disease.
For a long time after her confinement she complained
of acute pains in her head, and showed evident symp
toms of determination of blood to it. It is remarkable
that the abatement of these pains, and the apparent
subjugation of her passions, have nearly corresponded
in time. I was much struck by Mr. Combe's obser
vations respecting this woman, as he guessed at once
that which I had long known to be her bodily malady.
She was convicted of larceny.
In addition to these remarks, the Governor in his
letter states,—
"In the case of M. C. No. 8, it appears to me you
have judged too favourably. This woman has been
confined here for more than four years, and for a very
considerable portion of that time her character was
marked by violence, maliciousness, and brutality, and,
when under the influence of high excitement, she
was perfectly ferocious. I have frequently suspected
that this ferocity of character was at least aggravated
by a determination of blood to the head; and have
been strengthened in that belief by finding that her
violence of disposition became mitigated concomitantly
with the abatement of very bad headaches with which
she was for a time afflicted. I have been much struck
by the fact of your suspecting organic disease in this
woman, as coinciding with the result of my own expe
rience, and I believe I may venture to state, with the
opinion of our most respectable and intelligent medical
attendant, Dr. Charles Orpen."
MR. COMBE'S VISIT TO DUBLIN. 175
In this woman Mr. C. found the organs of the ani
mal propensities largely developed, which, when ex
cited by diseased action, would render her ferocious
as described; but the distinguishing characteristic of
her head was the superior moral development, which,
but for disease, would have sufficed to restrain and
direct the propensities; so that the case forms no ex
ception to Phrenology, but the reverse.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 9, A. B.—This wo
man has very large Destructiveness,Secretiveness, and
Acquisitiveness, with deficient Conscientiousness.—
She is a bad subject, and will with difficulty be
amended.
Governor's Report.—No. 9, A. B.—This young
woman has generally conducted herself well, though
tbere have been some very flagrant exceptions. These
exceptions appear to have been occasioned by temper, as
she is highly irritable, and is, when excited, frightfully
furious and vindictive. She is perhaps the cleverest
(intellectually) female prisoner in the institution, and,
although quiet, gentle, and correct in her ordinary
demeanour, I fear she is not to be reclaimed. The
crime of which she was convicted was grand larceny.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 10, B. L.—This is a
better subject than the last. She is milder and less
coarse. She would probably swindle. By education
she will be greatly improved.
Governor's Report.—No. 10, B. L.—This girl has
been unusually well conducted, is prepossessing in
her manner and appearance, docile, and anxious to
receive instruction. I was very anxious to learn Mr.
Combe's opinion of her, and much gratified to find
176 me. combe's tisit to dubliw.
that it exactly coincided with that I had previously
formed. She was convicted of stealing bank-notes.
Mr. Combe's Remarks.—No. 11, P. T.—This is a
tolerably good subject, and something may be made
of him.
Governor 's Report.—No. 11, P. T.—This young
man's conduct since his admission has been generally
correct. He does not appear to have strong passions
of any kind, neither is his intellectual capacity great.
His dispositions appear to be of a mild character, and
I should be surprised to hear that he ever committed
any flagrant crime; though from a general meanness
of character I think he will, unless well attended to
for some years, be guilty of petty thefts. I do not
consider him to have strong moral feelings, and I know
he was at one time addicted to lying. His crime was
larceny.
ARTICLE VIII.
[From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. 10, 1826.]
Dr. GALL'S VISIT TO THE PRISONS OF BERLIN AND
SPANDAU.
The sixth and last volume of Dr. Gall's admirable
and imperishable work, "Sur les Fonctions du Cer-
veau," has just reached us, and we cannot resist the
temptation of making a few extracts from its pages.
Let any one read the following passage taken from Dr.
Gall's conclusion, and then say if he is a reckless
theorist, a visionary, or a quack:—
"I could have wished," says Dr. Gall, "to have de
ferred this publication still longer, in order to mature
more fully the fruits of my researches; but the last
term approaches, and I must resign myself to leave
this first sketch of physiology of the brain much less
perfect than it will be fifty years hence." "Whoever
jS not impelled by an innate instinct of observation,—
whoever finds the abnegation of his own opinions, and
of his own learning, acquired in his earlier studies,
too difficult to accomplish,—whoever is more bent
upon the improvement of his fortune, than upon un
folding the treasures of nature,—whoever is not pos
sessed of an imperturbable patience against the inter
pretations of envy, jealousy, hypocrisy, ignorance, ap
athy, and indifference,—whoever has too high an idea
of the force and justness of his own reasoning, to be
lieve himself obliged to submit it to the test of expe
16
178 dr. gall's visit to the prisons
rience, a thousand and a thousand times repeated,—
will never advance the physiology of the brain; and
yet these are the only means by which my discoveries
can be verified, corrected, or refuted. The reader
will therefore pardon me if, independently of all the
proofs adduced under the head of each individual or
gan, I still bring forward some experiments made in
the presence of a great number of persons who ac
companied us to the prisons, &c. I wish to neglect
nothing that may encourage philosophers to study the
functions of the different parts of the brain."
The following is a translation of an authentic notice
of this visit, which first appeared in the 97th and 98th
Nos. of the Freymiithige, in May, 1805, and which
we have copied almost literally from the pages of Dr.
Gall:
Dr. Gall having expressed a desire to inspect the
prisons of Berlin, with the view of making himself
acquainted with their arrangements and construction,
as well as of observing the heads of the prisoners, it
was proposed to him that he should visit not only the
prisons of that city, but the house of correction, and
the fortress of Spandau.
Accordingly, on 17th April, 1805, Dr. Gall began
with those of Berlin, in presence of the directing
commissaries, the superior officers of the establish
ment, the inquisitors of the criminal deputation, the
counsellor Thurnagel and Schmidt, the assessors
Miihlberg and W under, the superior counsellor of
the medical inspection, Welper, Dr. Flemining, Pro
fessor Wildenow, and several other gentlemen.
As soon as Dr. Gall had satisfied himself in regard
to the regulations and general management of the es
tablishment, the party went to the criminal prisons,
and to the salles de travail, where they found about
OF BERLIN AND SPANDAU. 179
200 prisoners, whom Dr. Gall was allowed to examine
without a word being said to him either of their crimes
or their characters.
It may here be remarked, that the great proportion
of those detained in the criminal prisons are robbers
or thieves; and, therefore, it was to be expected, that
if Dr. Gall's doctrine were true, the organ of Acquisi
tiveness should, as a general rule, be found to pre
dominate in these individuals. This accordingly soon
appeared to be the case. The heads of all the thieves
resembled each other more or less in shape. All of
them presented a width and prominence at that part
of the temple where the organ is situated, with a de
pression above the eyebrows, a retreating forehead,
and the skull flattened towards the top. These pecu
liarities were perceptible at a single glance; but the
touch rendered still more striking the difference be
tween the form of the skulls of robbers and that of the
skulls of those who were detained for other causes.
The peculiar shape of the head, generally character
istic of thieves, astonished the party still more, when
several prisoners were ranged in a line; but it was
never so strikingly borne out and illustrated as when,
at the request of Dr. Gall, all the youths from 12 to
15 years of age, who were confined for theft, were
collected together; their heads presented so very
nearly the same configuration, that they might easily
have passed for the offspring of the same stock.
It was with great ease that Dr. Gall distinguished
confirmed thieves from those who were less danger
ous; and in every instance his opinion was found to
agree with the result of the legal interrogatories.
The heads in which Acquisitiveness was most predom
inant were that of Columbus, and, among the children
180 dr. gall's visit to the prisons
that of the little H., whom Gall recommended to keep
in confinement for life, as utterly incorrigible. Judg
ing from the judicial proceedings, both had manifested
an extraordinary disposition for thieving.
In entering one of the prisons, where all the wo
men presented a predominance of the same organ, ex
cept one, (then busy at the same employment, and in
precisely the same dress as the offenders,) Dr. Gall
asked, as soon as he perceived her, why that person
was there, seeing that her head presented no appear
ance indicative of any propensity to steal. He was
then told that she was not a criminal, but the inspec-
tress of works. In the same way he distinguished
other individuals confined from different causes than
theft.
Several opportunities of seeing Acquisitiveness,
combined with other largely-developed organs, pre
sented themselves. In one prisoner it was joined with
Benevolence and Veneration, the latter particularly
large. This individual was put to the proof, and in
all his discourses shewed great horror at thefts accom
panied by violence, and manifested much respect for
religion. He was asked which he thought the worse
action, to ruin a poor labourer by taking his all, or to
steal from a church without harming any one? He
replied, that it was too revolting to rob a church, and
that he could never summon resolution enough to do it.
Dr. Gall was requested to examine particularly the
heads of the prisoners implicated in the murder of a
Jewess, which had taken place the preceding year.
In the principal murderer, Marcus Hirsch, he found
a head which, besides indicating very depraved dis
positions, presented nothing remarkable, except a
Yery great development of the organ of Perseverance.
OF BERLIN AND SPANDAU. 181
His accomplice, Jeannette Marcus, had an extremely
vicious conformation of brain, the organ which leads
to theft being greatly developed as well as that of
Destructiveness. He found in the female servants,
Benkendorf and Babette, great want of circumspec
tion; and in the wife of Marcus Hirsch, a form of
head altogether insignificant. All this was found to
be in strict accordance with the respective characters
of the prisoners, as ascertained by the legal proceed
ings.
The prisoner Fritze, suspected of having killed his
wife, and apparently guilty of that crime, although he
still stoutly denied it, was next shewn to Dr. Gall.
The latter found the organs of Secretiveness and Firm
ness highly developed,—qualities which his interro
gator had found him manifest in the very highest de
gree.
In the tailor Maschke, arrested for counterfeiting
the legal coin, and whose genius for the mechanical
arts was apparent in the execution of his crime, Gall
found, without knowing for what he was confined, the
organ of Constructiveness much developed, and a
head so well organized, that he lamented several times
the fate of that man. ■The truth is, that this Maschke
was well. known to possess great mechanical skill, and
at the same time much kindness of heart.
Scarcely had Dr. Gall advanced a few steps into
another prison, when he perceived the organ of Con
structiveness equally developed in a man named Trop-
pe, a shoemaker, who, without any teaching, applied
himself to the making of watches and other objects,
by which he now lives. In examining him more near
ly, Gall found also the organ of Imitation, generally
remarkable in comedians, considerably developed,—a
16*
182 dr. gall's visit to the prisons
just observation, since the crime of Troppe was that
of having extorted a considerable sum of money un
der the feigned character of an officer of police. Gall
observed to him, that he must assuredly have been
fond of playing tricks in his youth, which he acknow
ledged. When Gall said to those about him, "If that
man had fallen in the way of comedians, he would
have become an actor,'' Troppe, astonished at the ex
actness and precision with which Gall unveiled his
dispositions, told them that he had in fact been some
time (six months) a member of a strolling company,—
a circumstance which had not till then been discov
ered.
In the head of the unhappy Heisig, who, in a state
of intoxication, had stabbed his friend, Gall found a
generally good conformation, with the exception of a
very deficient Cautiousness, or great rashness. He
remarked in several other prisoners the organs of Lan
guage, Colour, and Number, in perfect accordance
with the manifestations; some of the first spoke seve
ral languages; those with large Colour were fond [of
shewy clothes, flowers, paintings, &c; and those with
Number large, calculated easily from memory.
On Saturday, 20th April, the party went to Span-
dau. Among those who accompanied Dr. Gall were
the privy counsellor Hufeland; the counsellor of the
chamber of justice, Albrecht; the privy counsellor
Kols; the professor Reich, Dr. Meyer, and some
others. Observations were made at the house of correc
tion upon 270 heads, and at the fortress upon 200.
Most of them were thieves and robbers, who present
ed more or less exactly the same form of head of which
the prisons of Berlin had exhibited a model. Includ
ing the whole, the prisons of Berlin and of Spandau
OF BERLIN AND SPANDAC. 183
had thus subjected to the examination of Dr. Gall, a
total of about five hundred thieves, most of them guilty
of repeated offences; and in all it was easy to verify
the form of brain indicated by Gall as denoting this
unhappy tendency, and to obtain the conviction, from
the discourse of most of them, that they felt no remorse
for their crimes, but, on the contrary, spoke of them
with a sort of internal satisfaction.
The morning was spent in examining the house of
correction and its inmates; the most remarkable of
whom were submitted, in the hall of conference, to
the particular observation of Dr. Gall, sometimes one
by one, and sometimes several. The combination of
other organs with that of Acquisitiveness was also no
ticed.
In Kunisch, an infamous thief and robber, who had
established himself as a master-carpenter at Berlin,
and who, in concert with several accomplices, had
committed a great number of thefts with "effraction"
(burglary,) for which he had been shut up till he
should be pardoned, Gall found, at the first glance,
the organs of Number and of Constructiveness, with
a good form of head in other respects, except that the
organ of Acquisitiveness was exceedingly developed.
Gall said on seeing him, "Here is an artist, a mathe
matician, and a good head; it is a pity he should be
here"—an observation remarkable for its accuracy, as
Kunisch had shewn so much talent for mechanics, that
he was appointed inspector of the spinning machine
ry, the repairing of which was confided to him. Gall
asked him if he knew arithmetic, to which he an
swered with a smile, "How could I invent or construct
a piece of work without having previously calculated
all the detailsV
184 dr. gall's visit to the prisons
The head of an old woman, who was in prison for
the second time for theft, presented a great develop
ment of the organs of Acquisitiveness, Veneration,
and Philoprogenitiveness, especially the last. Upon
being asked the cause of her detention, she answered,
that she had stolen, but that she fell upon her knees
every day to thank her Creator for the favour she had
received in being brought to this house; that she saw
in this dispensation one of the clearest proofs of the
wonderful ways of Providence, for she had nothing
so much at heart as her children, whom it was impos
sible for her to educate properly; that since her im
prisonment they had been taken into the Orphan Hos
pital, where they were now receiving that education
which she had not had the means of giving them.
Deficiency of Cautiousness was often joined to a
great endowment of Acquisitiveness. This was par
ticularly the casein the woman Muller, nee Sulzberg,
whose head presented also a very remarkable develop
ment of the organ of ambition (Love of Approbation,)
which, according to Gall, degenerates into vanity in
narrow-minded and ignorant persons. She was un
willing to acknowledge that she was fond of dress,
thinking that this was not in harmony with her pre
sent situation; but her companions insisted that she
had much vanity, and was careful about nothing but
her dress.
In the prisoner Albert, the organ of Self-esteem
was joined with that of Acquisitiveness. "7s it not
the case," said Gall to him, "that you were always
desirous of being the first, and of distinguishing your
self, as you used to do, when still a little boy? I am
sure that, in all your sports, you then put yourself at
the head." Albert confessed that it was so;, and it is
OF BERLIN AND SPANDAU. 185
true that he still distinguishes himself by the com
mand wh ich he assumes over the other prisoners, and
by his insubordination, to the degree that, when a sol
dier, he could not be constrained but by the severest
punishments; and even now he generally escapes one
punishment only to fall into another.
Here, as at Berlin, Gall distinguished at a glance
such prisoners as were not thieves. Among others
brought before him was Regine Dating, an infanticide,
imprisoned for life. This woman, different from the
other infanticides, shewed no repentance and no re
morse for her crime, so that she entered the room with
a tranquil and serene air. Gall immediately drew
the attention of Dr. Spurzheim to this woman, in
asking him if she had not exactly the same form of
head, and the same disposition to violence, as his gar
dener of Vienna, Mariandel, whose chief pleasure
consisted in killing animals, and whose skull now
serves in his lectures as an example of the organ of
Destructiveness. This organ was found to be, very
largely developed in Rfigine Dsering, and the poste
rior part of the head in the situation of Philoprogeni-
tiveness was absolutely flattened. This was in exact
accordance with the character of the culprit, in so far
as her examination bore upon it; for not only has she
had several children, of whom she has always secretly
got rid, but she lately exposed and murdered one of
them, already four years old, which would have led
her to the scaffold if the proofs had not been in some
respects vague and incomplete, and her judges had not
on that account preferred sentencing her to imprison
ment for life.
One of the gentlemen present on this occasion was
a distinguished musician, upon whom Gall had inci
186 dr. gall's visit to the prisons
dentally pointed out one of the forms of development
of the organ of Tune, which consists in a projection
above the external angle of the eye. As soon as the
prisoner, Kunow, appeared before him, "Hold," said
Gall; "here is the other form in which the organ of
Music shews itself; it is here, as in the head of Mozart,
of a pyramidal shape, pointed uptoards." Kunow
immediately acknowledged that he was passionately
fond of music, that he had acquired it with facility;
and the production of the jail register shewed that it
was as an amateur that he had spent his fortune, and
that latterly he had had in view to give lessons in
music at Berlin. Gall asked what was his crime. It
appeared that he had spent his youth in debauchery,
and had been condemned to imprisonment for an un
natural crime. Gall having examined his head, and
found the organ of Amativeness in enormous develop
ment, immediately exclaimed, "Cest sa nuquequi V a
perdu;" then, carrying his hand upwards towards
Cautiousness, which was exceedingly deficient, he
added, "Maudite legereU."
After dinner the party went to the fortress. Major
de Beckendorf, the commandant, had the politeness
to cause all the prisoners to be drawn up in line to
be presented to Dr. Gall. Here the organs of Secre-
tiveness and Acquisitiveness predominated, as in the
other prisons. They were sometimes so strikingly
apparent, that at a glance the thief might be distin
guished from the other criminals. Raps, in whom the
organ of Acquisitiveness was very conspicuous, at
tracted among others the notice of Gall, who discov
ered at the same time large organs of Destructiveness
and Benevolence. What makes the justness of these
observations very remarkable is, that Raps strangled a
OF BERLIN AND SPANDAC. 187
woman whom he had robbed, and that in going away
he untied the cord from compassion, and thus saved
the poor woman's life after stealing her property. He
then examined the young Brunnert, in whom he found
the organs of Acquisitiveness, Locality, Constructive-
ness, and Self-esteem, which were curiously verified
in his history; for Brunnert had committed several
robberies; had been confined in various prisons, from
which he had escaped; fixed himself nowhere; desert
ed as a soldier; underwent several castigations for in
subordination; and, having again rebelled against his
superiors, was once more waiting his sentence. He
was, besides, skilful in the mechanical arts, and shew
ed some exquisitely finished works in pasteboard,
which he had executed in a prison very unfavorable
to such talents.
The organ of Number was largely developed in
some; and in each case the power of calculation was
found to correspond.
Two peasants, father and son, mixed with the
thieves, attracted notice from having quite different
forms of head. Gall having examined them found an
enormous development of Self-esteem, and said,—
" These two have not wished to be ruled, but to rule
themselves, and to withdraw from any thing like sub
ordination." It was discovered that the cause of their
confinement was insolence to superiors.
An old soldier, who. was among the prisoners, had
a very large organ of Acquisitiveness. It was, how
ever for insubordination, and not for theft, that he
was confined in the fortress; but on farther research
it appeared that he had been punished several times
in the regiment for having stolen.
ARTICLE IX.
[From the Edinburg Phrenological Journal, No. 15, 1821.]
RESULT OF AN EXAMINATION, BY Mr. JAMES DE
VILLE, OF THE HEADS OF 148 CONVICTS ON
BOARD THE CONVICT SHIP ENGLAND, WHEN
ABOUT TO SAIL FOR NEW SOUTH WALES IN
THE SPRING OF 1826.
Seeing that no pretension of Phrenology has been
more derided than its direct application to the affairs of
life, without which it would be a barren and useless
discovery, we cannot do more good to the cause than
by publishing examples of its practical application.
When the male convicts, 148 in number, were assem
bled for transportation on board the ship England in
spring 1826, under the charge of Dr. Thomson, a na
vy surgeon,* Mr. DeVille was induced to goon board,
and examine the whole gang overhead. The experi
ment was suggested by Mr. Wardrop of London,
whom we are pleased to see adding a manly avowal of
the new science to his other claims to professional dis
tinction. Dr. Thomson was not previously acquaint
ed with the subject. Mr. De Ville furnished him
with a distinct memorandum of the inferred character
of each individual convict, and pointed out the man
ner in which the dispositions of each would probably
* This charge, for the sake of economy, is committed to navy
surgeons who will undertake it; and it embraces the entire man
agement as well as the medical treatment of convicts on the voyage.
PHRENOLOGY IN A CONVICT SHIP. 189
appear in his general conduct on the passage. The
desperadoes were all specifically noted, and a mode of
treatment to prevent mischief suggested. One man in
particular was noted as very dangerous, from his en
ergy, ferocity, and talent for plots and profound dis
simulation. His name was Robert Hughes.
The history of the voyage is minutely detailed in
Dr. Thomson's Journal, deposited in the Victualling-
Office; and by the politeness of Dr. Weir of that of
fice, we were, in compliance with our request, not only
immediately presented with the Journal, but permit
ted to take extracts and publish them. From different
parts of a Log of above four months, w e extracted all
that concerned the conduct of the convicts, as follows: —
Log and Proceedings of the Male Convict Ship Eng
land, during a Voyage to Neiv South Wales in 1826.
148 Convicts on board.
9th May. Convicts disposed to be disorderly; read
to them my authority to punish; and threatened to act
upon it, if they did not conduct themselves in a more
orderly manner.
16th —. Same complaint,—and difficulty to get
them to keep their births and clothes clean.
20th —. Punishment by flogging for plundering
and violently assaulting each other.
30//t —. Symptoms of mutiny among the convicts.
31s? —. Received a letter from W. E. Taylor, re
questing me to send for him as soon as possible, as he
had something to communicate to me privately of the
utmost importance. I immediately sent for him, when
he informed me, that John George Munns had that
morning come to him at the hospital very early, before
he or the other convicts were out of bed, and told him
17
190 PHRENOLOGY IN A CONVICT SHIP.
privately that there was a conspiracy formed to mur
der him (W. E. T.) to prevent his giving any alarm,
and then to murder me, and all who would not assist
them to secure the ship, and run herinto South Ameri
ca. That Robert Hughes and Thomas Jones were
at the head of it, and it was their intention to carry it
into effect the first time the ship was in a squall. In
consequence of this information, the following memo
randum was given by me to W. E. T. in the form of
a protection, to be shown to such men as he could
trust. As two-thirds of the convicts are the most de
praved and desperate of characters, and robust athle
tic men, in order to prevent their taking any alarm,
and assassinating in the prison during the night, as
they had threatened to do, or at any future period, how
ever distant, those convicts who should divulge their
wicked intentions, every necessary precaution was
privately taken, until the ringleaders could all be dis
covered, and safely secured without violence. Mem.
''Dr. Thomson will thank W. E. Taylor and other
well-disposed men to be on their guard, and, if possi
ble, to get such evidence as will enable Dr. T. to act
against the malcontents. Dr. T. promises protection,
and his best services with the governor of New South
Wales, to such men as may appear to him to deserve
it." Some of the soldiers had heard in prison what
induced them to expect soon to be employed against
the convicts. This they reported to Dr. Thomson.
1st June. Hughes, for assaulting Daniel Dean, was
secured and double-ironed on deck under a sentry.
Munns applied for protection from being strangled or
assassinated as was threatened. He gave the names
of those principally concerned; Robert Hughes, (al
ways the first,) Thomas Jones, William Brown, James
PHRENOLOGY IN A CONVICT SHIP. 191
Hawkes, and Jaines Norman. Jones gave himself up,
observing, he was not the first bullock that had been
sold, and hoped he would have a fair trial. He was
double-ironed and handcuffed. Brown, Hawkes, and
Norman, were all handcuffed, and placed under the
sentries. Other arrangements followed for safety.
Crew armed with cutlasses, &c.
29th September. Landed at Sidney. Court of in
quiry on 24; Robert Hughes, Thomas Jones, &c.
We have not seen the evidence on the trial, but are
informed that the facts of the conspiracy, and the
shocking depravity of the mode of the intended mur
ders, were proved beyond all doubt, and that the sjiare
each person had in the matter was in very close ac
cordance with the notandum of character affixed to
each name by Mr. De Yille. Hughes was especially
marked by him as a person capable of ruthless mur
der and deep-laid plots. We have not seen Mr. De
Ville's memorandum, but subjoin with great pleasure
Dr. Thomson's letter to Mr. Wardrop.
Extract from a Letter of G. Thomson, Esq., Sur
geon of the Ship England, to James Wardrop, Esq.
Sydney, October 9, 1826.
"I have to thank you for your introduction to De
Ville and Phrenology, which I am now convinced has
a foundation in truth, and beg you will be kind enough
to call on Dr. Burnett, whom I have requested to show
you my journal, at the end of which is Mr. De Ville's
report, and my report of conduct during the voyage;
and likewise to the depositions against some of the
convicts, who you, with your usual tactus eruditus,
discovered would give me some trouble during the
192 PHRENOLOGY IN A CONVICT SHIP.
voyage, and I think the perusal of them will make you
laugh, as they were going to rip up the poor doctor
like a pig. De Ville is right in every case except one,
Thomas Jones; but this man can neither read nor
write, and, being a sailor, he was induced to join the
conspiracy to rise and seize the ship, and carry her to
South America, being informed by Hughes, the ring
leader, that he would then get his liberty. Observe
how De Ville has hit the real character of Hughes,
and I will be grateful to De Ville all my life; for his
report enabled me to shut up in close custody the mal
contents, and arrive here not a head minus, which,
without the report, it is more than probable I would
have been. All the authorities here have become
Phrenologists, and I cannot get my journals out of their
offices until they have perused and re-perused De
Ville's report, and will not be in time, I am afraid, to
send them by the Fairfield."
We cannot conclude without bestowing a well-de
served encomium on Mr. De Ville, for so cheerfully
undertaking and so skilfully performing a task from
\i4iich all but a zealous Phrenologist would have
shrunk with a mingled feeling of disgust and fear.
We regret that the details in the Log-book are so
meagre, and that Dr. Thomson has not sent home ex
tracts from the evidence on the trials.
THE END.
