{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__cory___ancient_fragments.pdf","mytitle":"Ancient Fragments","mylang":"de"}
AN CIEN T FRAGM EN TS
OF THE
PHCENICIAN, CH A LD EA N , EGYPTIAN, TYRIAN,
CARTHAGINIAN, INDIAN, PERSIAN, AND OTHER
W RITERS;
W ITH AN INTRODUCTORY DISSERTATIO N:
AND AN INQUIRY INTO THE
PH ILO SO PH Y AND TRINITY OF THE ANCIENTS.
BY ISA A C P R E S T O N CO RY, ESQ .
FELLOW OF CAIUS COLL. CAMBRIDGE.
SECOND EDITION.
LOND ON:
W I L L I A M P I C K E R I N G .
1832.
Digitized by G o o g l e
T. G. White and Co. Printer*,
Crane Court.
Digitized by Google
•<*
AAEAOHI OIATATHI
AAEAOOC
XPHCTH XAIPE
XAIPEIC TAP EN XPlCTfH
Digitized by v ^ o o Q t e
Digitized by G o o g l e
ANCIENT FRAGMENTS.
Ph c e n ic ia n .
From Sanchoniatho.
Ch a l m a n .
From Berossus, Abydenus, Megasthenes, Nicholaus Da-
mascenus, Hestiaeus, Alexander Polyhistor, Eupolemus,
Thallus, Ctesias, Diodorus Siculus, Herodotus, Castor,
Velleius Paterculus, Asmilius Sura, Plinius and Cicero.
D y n a s t ie s o f t h e k in g s o f Ch a l d e a , As s y r ia , M e d ia ,
P e r s ia , T h e b e s , a n d E g y pt .
From Abydenus, Africanus, Eusebius, Syncellus, Castor,
Ptolemseus, Ctesias, Eratosthenes, Manetho, Josephus,
Diodorus Siculus, Herodotus, Theophilus Antiochenus,
Malala, Suidas, Diogenes Laertius, Dicsearchus, Arta-
panus, Plato, Pomponius Mela and Barhebrseus.
Eg y pt ia n .
From the Obelisks, Manetho, Chseremon, Diodorus Sicu
lus, Lysimachus, Polemo, Ptolemseus Mendesius and
Artapanus.
Ty r ia n .
From Dius and Menander.
Ca r t h a g in ia n .
From Hanno and Hiempsal.
In d ia n .
From Megasthenes and Clitarchus.
At l a n t ic a n d Pa n c h je a n .
From Marcellus and Euemerus.
Digitized by Google
ANCIENT FRAGMENTS.
O r a c l e s o f Zo r o a s t e r .
H e r m e t ic , O r ph ic , P y t h a g o r e a n a n d T y r r h e n ia n .
From the ancient and modern Hermetic Books, Hora-
pollo, Chaeremon, Orpheus, Hesiodus, Aristophanes,
Timotheus, Timaeus Locrus, Plato, Amelius, Onomacri-
tus, Ion, Philoponus, Plutarchus, Ocellus, Aristoteles,
Suidas and Damascius.
Ch r o n o l o g ic a l .
From Berossus, Seneca, Censorinus and Theon Alex*
andrinus.
Digitized by G o o g l e
INTRODUCTORY DISSERTATION.
In presenting this collection of A n c i e n t F r a g
m e n t s to the world, some explanation of what is
comprehended under that title may not be deemed
unnecessary. We are accustomed to regard the
Hebrew scriptures, and the Greek and Latin
writings, as the only certain records of antiquity:
yet there have been other languages, in which
have been written the annals and the histories of
other nations. Where then are those of Assyria
and Babylon, of Persia and Egypt and Phoenicia,
of Tyre and Carthage ? Of the literature of all
these mighty empires, where are even the remains?
It will, no doubt, tend to excite some reflections
of a melancholy cast, to look on this small volume
as an answer. That all such remains are con
tained in it, I should be unwilling to assert: yet,
with some diligence and research, 1 have not been
able to increase its size with other fragments,
which I could consider sufficiently authenticated.
It was my wish to have included in this col
lection all the fragments of the earlier Gentile
world, which have reached us through the me-
b
Digitized by C.ooQle
11
dium of the Greek language. Of the early his
torians of Greece the names only of some have
come down to u s; whilst of others, such as
Eupolemus and Histiaeus, several very interesting
fragments have escaped the general wreck. In
the classic ages of their literature, the acquaint
ance of the Greek historians with antiquity was
generally confined and obscure: nor was it till
the publication of the Septuagint, that they
turned their attention to their own antiquities, and
to those of the surrounding nations : and for this
reason we meet with more certain notices of
ancient history in the later, than in the earlier
times of Greece. To have drawn a line then; to
have inserted the earlier writers in exclusion of
the later, would have been to have omitted the
more valuable. To have reprinted the fragments
of many authors, such as Nicolaus Damascenus,
a writer of Damascus, of the Augustan age, would
have introduced, with some matter worthy of at
tention, much of little interest. To have selected
from them all, the passages relating to ancient
times and foreign states, would have been a task
as useless as laborious, and would have swelled
the collection to a series of volumes. I have
therefore, for the most part, excluded the native
Greek historians—and every writer of the Au
gustan age and downwards—I have also omitted
all fragments which bear about them the stamp
of forgery, or are the productions of Hellenistic
Digitized by Google
Ill
Jews, or of authors who have had access to the
sacred Scriptures, and following the words, throw
no additional light upon the subjects; under one
or other of which divisions may be classed the
Antediluvian books of Enoch, the fragments of
Artapanus, the Sibylline Oracles, the Correspon
dence of Solomon and Hiram king of Tyre, the
tragedy of Ezekiel in which Moses figures as the
hero, with several compositions of a similar de
scription.
The contents, then, of this volume, are Frag
ments which have been translated from foreign
languages into Greek; or have been quoted or
transcribed by Greeks from foreign authors; or
have been written in the Greek language by
foreigners who have had access to the archives of
their own countries. Yet to render the collection
more useful, and as it were a manual to the Chro-
nologist and Mythological Antiquarian, I have
added by way of Supplement such fragments and
extracts as appear to have descended from more
ancient sources, though they are now to be found
only in the works of Greek or Latin writers.
Some of these are merely illustrations of the
fragments, or contain detached chronological no
tices, or such other curious information as may
well be deemed worthy of a place. Thus I have
endeavoured to comprise, in the volume, all the
genuine relics of antiquity which precede the era
of Grecian history ; and which lie so scattered
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
IV
among the folios, chiefly of the Fathers and the
Philosophers of the lower empire, as to be inac
cessible to the Antiquarian, unless in the neigh
bourhood of some large public library.
Miscellaneous as such a collection might be
at first supposed, it will be found to resolve
itself into two subjects; the early History, and
the ancient Theological Systems of the world.
In the following pages I have endeavoured to
present a sketch of both ; not with a view of
entering into the details, but rather as a method
of connecting the fragments with one another,
to facilitate an examination of their contents,
by directing the attention successively to those
great landmarks which stand prominently forth
amidst what might otherwise be deemed a wild,
pathless and interminable ; and to enable the
reader, by following the same order of perusal,
to elicit something like a regular continued nar
rative. In the Scriptures we have a brief but
authenticated account of the earliest ages : but
among the heathen writers, with the exception of
some few very valuable historical fragments, we
have little more than a collection of allegories and
legendary tales. Upon examination, however,
most of these legends, notwithstanding their ob
scurity, will be found to contain references to those
grand primeval events whose memory was retained
among every people upon earth : and for the com-
Digitized by U.ooole
V
memoration of which were ordained so many of
the ceremonies and mysteries of the ancients.
From such traditions, handed down for ages
before they were committed to writing, we might
expect but little aid. Indeed in all the re
searches of the antiquarian, conjecture must very
generally supply the place of science. Yet, by
pursuing a proper method of investigation, we
may approximate to truth, and frequently illus
trate circumstances obscurely hinted at in Scrip
ture, and even occasionally fill up the gaps of
history, by supplying events which have been
omitted by the sacred writers as unconnected
with the immediate objects under their consi
deration.
Persons, Events, and Dates in History, and
Systems in Theology, are the objects to be ex
amined and ascertained. And where the subject
under investigation can be so divided, that the
truth must lie among some few plausible hypo
thesis, which can be a priori, and at once laid
down: by collecting all the evidence that can be
had, and examining separately, and excluding
successively each of these hypothesis which shall
be found inconsistent with that evidence, we
may contract the circle of conjecture, in some
cases, till but one hypothesis is left; which one
must be the truth, and is thus negatively rendered
matter of demonstration. In other cases want of
Digitized by U O O Q L e
VI
evidence may leave room for several different
opinions, none of which can really be refuted,
though one may often be more plausible than an
other.
Mr. Faber, in his admirable work on the
Pagan Idolatry, has collected and separately ex
amined all the different systems of the Heathen
Mythology ; and has shown, ‘that there is such
a singular, minute, and regular accordance among
them, not only in what is obvious and natural,
but also in what is arbitrary and circumstantial,
both in fanciful speculations and in artificial ob
servances,’ as to render untenable every other
hypothesis than this—‘ that they must all have
originated from some common source.’
Having thus shown their common origin, he
enumerates three hypothesis as the only three
on which, he conceives, the common origination
of the various systems of Paganism can be ac
counted for:
1. Either all nations agreed peaceably to borrow from one,
subsequent to their several settlements.
2. Or all nations, subsequent to their several settlements,
were compelled by arms to adopt the superstition of one.
3. Or all nations were once assembled together in a single
place and in a single community; where they adopted a
corrupt form of religion, which they afterwards re
spectively carried with them into the lands that they
colonized.
After examining at length and shewing the utter
Digitized by Google
vii
impossibility of maintaining either the first or
second of these hypothesis, he concludes that
the third only can be the truth.*
In the same manner we may ascertain the re
gion from which mankind originally dispersed.
Both in ancient and modem times the Greeks have
been accused of a kind of plagiarism, which was
the prevailing custom of every nation upon earth.
Egypt and India, and Phoenicia, no less than
Greece, have appropriated to themselves, and
assigned within their own territorial limits, the
localities of the grand events of primeval history,
with the birth and achievements of the Gods and
Heroes, the Deluge, the origin of the arts and
the civilization of mankind. And their claims
have found more able supporters, only because
they have not been so obviously liable to refuta
tion. Yet by rejecting each country, whose
claims rest upon no better foundation than its own
local histories, and retaining those only, whose
pretensions are substantiated by the concurrent
testimony of the rest; it may be shown, inde
pendently of Scripture, that the primitive settle
ments of mankind were in such places, and at
tended with such circumstances, as the Scripture
instructs us was the case.
• To these, perhaps, may be added a fourth, viz. that the
superstition became general, partly by peaceful communication,
and partly by force of arms : though the fulness of the evidence
is such as to render this equally untenable with the others.
Digitized by Google
viii
Of the transactions previous to the Deluge
there are but few and faint memorials among the
heathens. One of the most authentic may be
found in the remains of the Phoenician History
of Sanchoniatho, who is considered to be the
most ancient writer of the heathen world. In
what age he wrote is uncertain : but his history
was composed in the Phoenician language, and
its materials collected from the archives of the
Phoenician cities. It was translated into Greek
by Philo Byblius, and for the preservation of
these fragments we are indebted to the care of
Eusebius.
The Cosmogony* I shall have occasion to re
fer to hereafter: as one of the most ancient, it is
extremely valuable, and as it speaks more plainly
than the rest, it affords a key to their interpre
tation.
The Generations contain many very curious
passages. In the firstf is an allusion to the fall:
in the second Genus may be Cain : after which
we lose the traces of similarity : at the fifth\ there
is an interruption. But taking up the thread of
inquiry, at the end, in Taautus or Thoyth,§ we
mayrecognizeAthothis,|| the second kingofEgypt,
the Hermes Trismegistus, who again^f appears as
the adviser of Cronus. His predecessor Misor
*p . 1. f p . 5. J p . 7. § p . 9.
|| See also Manetho, p. 94 ; Eratosthenes, p. 84. If p. 10.
Digitized by C,ooQle
IX
then corresponds with Mizraim, the first king of
Egypt, the Menes and Mines of the dynasties.*
In the preceding generation is Amynus, Amon, or
Ham, the same with the Cronus,f of what by the
historian is supposed to be a different but contemn
porary line. An ascent higher we find, Agrus,
the husbandman, who was worshipped in Phoe
nicia as the greatest of the gods : he corresponds
with Noah, the Ouranus of the other line, whose
original name was Epigeus or Autochthon.
Sanchoniatho seems to have been a very dili
gent inquirer, and intimates at the conclusion]:
that the generations contain the real history of
those early times, stripped of the fictions and
allegories with which it had been obscured by the
son of Thabion, the first hierophant of Phoenicia.
That such is the case, we are assured by Philo
Byblius, in the remarks on Sanchoniatho with
which he prefaces his translation of the work.
The passage also informs us that the history thus
disguised was handed down to Isiris, the brother
of Chna> the first Phoenician, apparently alluding
to Mizraim the brother of Canaan.
It is very remarkable that he has placed these
characters in the true order of succession, though
in all the traditions of the heathens they are ge
nerally confounded with one another. It is also
remarkable that Sanchoniatho is almost the only
•S ee pp. 8, 84, 94, 139. fpp . 8, D. ]p . 16.
c
Digitized by Google
X
heathen writer upon antiquities who makes no
direct mention of the deluge, though several ob
scure allusions to it may be found in the course
of the fragment. Were we assured of his silence
upon the point in the parts of his work that have
been lost, the omission might still be accounted
for from his avowed determination to suppress
what he considered merely allegorical, for he
would find the traditions of the deluge so inti
mately blended with those relating to the creation,
that in endeavouring to disengage the truth from
the fable he might easily be induced to suppose
that they related to the same event.
For explanation of his fragment upon the
mystical sacrifice of the Phoenicians,* I must
refer to the very curious dissertations by Bryantf
and Mr. F aberS anchoniatho w'rote also a
history of the serpent, a single fragment^ of
which is preserved by Eusebius.
In the fragments of Berossus again we have
perhaps some few traces of the antediluvian world.
Like Sanchoniatho, Berossus seems to have com
posed his work with a serious regard for truth.
He was a Babylonian by birth, and flourished in
the reign of Alexander the Great, and resided for
some years at Athens. As a priest of Belus, he
possessed every advantage which the records of
*p. 16. -j- Mythology vi. 323.
JPag. Idol. Lib. II. c. 8. § p. 17.
Digitized by G o o g l e
XI
the temple and the learning and traditions of the
Chaldaeans “could afford. He appears to have
sketched his history of the earlier times from the
representations upon the walls of the temple.*
From written and traditionary knowledge he must
have learned several points too well authenticated
to be called in question; and correcting the one
by the other, and at the same time blending them
as usual with Mythology, he has produced the
strange history before us.
The first fragment preserved by Alexander
Polyhistor-f is extremely valuable, and contains
a store of very curious information. The first
book of the history apparently opens naturally
enough with a description of Babylonia. Then
referring to the paintings, the author finds the
first series a kind of preface to the rest. All men
of every nation appear assembled in Chaldaa :J
among them is introduced a personage who is
represented as their instructor in the arts and
sciences, and informing them of the events which
had previously taken place. Unconscious that
Noah is represented under the character of
Oannes, Berossus describes him, from the hiero-
glyphieal delineation, as a being literally com
pounded of a fish and a man, and as passing the
natural, instead of the diluvian night in the ocean,
with other circumstances indicative of his cha
racter and life.
* See pp. 22, 24. tP- 21. Jp. 22.
Digitized by U.ooQle
XU
The instructions of the Patriarch are.detailed
in the next series of paintings. In the first* of
which, I conceive, the Chaos is pourtrayed by
the confusion of the limbs ofevery kind of animal:
the secondf represents the creation of the uni
verse : the third the formation of mankind: others
again that of animals, and of the heavenly bodies.
The second bookJ appears to have compre
hended the history of the ante-diluvian world :
and of this the two succeeding fragments § seem
to have been extracts. The historian, as usual,
has appropriated the history of the world to
Chaldaea. He finds nine persons, probably re
presented as kings, preceding Noah, who is again
introduced under the name Xisuthrus, and he
supposes that; the representation was that of the
first dynasty of the Chaldaean kings. From the
universal consent of history and tradition he was
well assured that Alorus or Orion, the Nimrod
of the Scriptures, was the founder of Babylon
and the first king : consequently he places him at
the top, and Xisuthrus follows as the tenth. The
destruction of the records by Nabonasar [| left
him to' fill up.the intermediate names as he could:
and who are inserted, is not easy so to determine.^
* p. 24. f p. 25. + p. 26. § pp. 30, 32. || p. 36.
In the Syriac Chronicle of Bar-Hebrseus, the names in the
catalogue are given to certain recluses of the line of Seth, called
the Sons of God, who lived upon Mount Hermon, and afterwards
apostatized and became the fathers of the Giants.
Digitized by C.ooole
xiii
Berossus has given also a full and accurate
description of the deluge,* which is wonderfully
consonant with the Mosaic account. We have
also a similar account, or it may be an epitome
of the samef from the Assyrian history of Abyde-
nus, who was a disciple of Aristotle, and a
copyist from Berossus. I have given also a small
extract\ from the Fragments of Nicholaus Da-
mascenus, relative to the deluge and the ark,
whose wreck is said by him as well as Berossus,
Chrysostom, and other writers, to have remained
upon Ararat even at the very time in which they
wrote.
Mankind appear to have dwelt some time
in Armenia, and the Patriarch allotted to his
descendants the different regions of the earth,
with commands to separate into distinct commu
nities. His injunctions, however, were disobeyed,
and great numbers, perhaps all the human race,
started from Armenia in a body, and, according
to the Scriptures, journied westward, but accord
ing to Berossus, travelled by a circuitous route
to the plains of Shinar. By combining the two
narratives, we may conclude that they followed
the winding course of the Euphrates, till they
halted upon those celebrated plains, where the
enterprising spirit of Nimrod tempted him to as-
*p. 26. f p . 37. i p . 49.
Digitized by C.ooQle
XIV
pire to the dominion of the world, and to found
the Tower and City of Babel as the metropolis of
his future universal empire.
Upon the Tower of Babel and the events con
nected with it, will be found some very interest
ing fragments from Abydenus,* from Hestiaeus,f
a very ancient Greek writer, from the Babylonian
Sibyl,! and from Eupolemus.§ I have added also
a curious extract from the Sibylline oracles.|| In
these fragments are detailed the erection of the
Tower, the dispersion of its contrivers, and the
confusion of the languages; with the additional
circumstances of the violent destruction of the
building,^ and the Titanian war, which forms so
remarkable an event in all traditions of the
heathens.
Previously to the erection of the Tower, men
appear very generally to have apostatized from
the patriarchal worship. About this time a fur
ther deviation from the truth took place; and
upon the first and more simple corruption was
engrafted an elaborate system of idolatry. Some
*p . 34. f p . 50. Jp . 50. §p. 57. || p. 51.
Upon the rebuilding of Babylon, the Tower was completed
most probably on the original plan. It is described by Hero
dotus as a pyramid of eight steps, about seven hundred feet high.
Its ruins, which are still known upon the spot as the Birs Nem-
brod, or the tower of Nimrod, are described by Sir R. K. Porter,
as a prodigious pile of unbumt bricks cemented with mud and
reeds in horizontal layers, still rising to the enormous height of
about two hundred and fifty feet.
Digitized by C.ooQle
XV
account of these deviations will be found in the
extracts from Epiphanius, Cedrenus, and the
Paschal chronicle.* What is mentioned under
the name of Barbarism, was probably the pri
meval patriarchal worship. It was succeeded by
a corrupted form of superstition which is known
among the ancients under the name of Scuthism,
or Scythism, which was most prevalent from the
flood to the building of the Tower. The new
corruption, at that time introduced by Nimrod,
was denominated lonism,t or Hellenism : and
both are still flourishing in the East under the well-
known appellations of Brahmenism and Budd
hism ; whose priests appear to have continued in
an uninterrupted succession from the Brahmanes
and Germanes, the philosophical sects of India
mentioned by Megasthenes | and Clitarchus.§
By the introduction of a more degenerate
superstition, Nimrod appears to have aimed at
the establishment of an universal monarchy in
himself and his descendants, of which Babylon
was to have been the metropolis, and the Tower,
the central temple of their idolatries. All who
*pp. 53, 55, 56.
j-Most probably derived from lone: for the worship of the
great Goddess, or universal Mother, was then introduced, as well
as Idolatry. It signifies also a Dove, which was the standard of
the Assyrian Empire.
+ p. 224. § p. 229.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
XVI
attended him seem to have entered into the pro-
ject, so far as he might have thought proper to
divulge it, and to have assisted in the erection of
the tower and city. But subsequent events shew
that the proposed form of government and system
of theology, though asquiesced in by the majority,
did not command universal approbation. And
the whole project was marred by the miraculous
interposition of the Almighty.
What concurring circumstances might have
operated to the dispersion, we have no clue to in
the narrative of Moses. He mentions the mira
culous confusion of the languages, and that the
Lord scattered the people abroad from thence
upon the face of all the earth ; and they left off to
build the city. But if we may Credit the heathen
accounts above referred to, with which the
Hindoo, and indeed almost every remnant of
traditionary lofe concur; a schism, fnost probably
both of a political and religious nature, was the
result; a bitter War was carried on, of at least a
bloody field was fought ; from which the Scuths,
defeated and excommunicated by their, brethren,
betook themselves, in haughty independence, to
the mountains of Cashgar and the north :* whilst
some violent and supernatural catastrophe, by
the overthrow of the Tower, completed the dis
persion.
* See Faber, Lib. VI. c. 4..
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
xva
The Scythic nations became very generally
Nomade, but sometimes settled in various parts.
O f what family they were lias been a subject of
long and intricate dispute. The ancient cferouo-
k»gists haw, almost without exception, supposed
them oftheraoe ofJaphet, the eldest son of.Noah:
that they were the sons of Cush has also been in*
sisted on with great learningand ingenuity.* But
if all the nations, or even the upper classes ofthose
nations, which bear the name, he the sons of
Cush, one-third of the present human race must
be the descendants of that patriarch. Indeed,
"before the introduction of lonism, Epiphanius
and others appear to have included all mankind
under the name of Souths. The first apostacy
might have been introduced by Cush, and its
* The iterm‘South, -which, with ,the prefix, is supposed 1o be
the same as Cuth or Cush, the .root of the names Chusns
Chasas Cassians Cusseans or Chrusseans, Chusdim Chasdim
or Chaldaeans, Cotti or Goths and many others, appears too
general ‘for a patronymic. AWthe northern nations were Scuthic,
the Souths of Touran. The.Souths of Iran occupied the tenure
Asiatic Ethiopia, containing the Iranian territories of the As
syrian Empire, extending from the Euphrates to the Indus, and
from the Caspian to the Ocean. African Ethiopia or Nubia with
the adjoining territories was also 'Cuthic. There were Sndo-
Scjithae. Celto-Scythse. and .even Jdnic-Scythee. The Belgse in
Gaul, the Pelasgi in Greece, the Sacas or Saxons, the Pelestim
Philistim and Phoenicians, the Sarmans Sarmatians and Germans
were Scuths. In ihort, the term is to be Found in every comer
of the earth, and may be traced in America and in Lapland, as
well as in China and Japan.
d
Digitized by C.ooQle
XV111
followers have borne his name; which the suc
ceeding heresy of Nimrod could not obliterate.
The Scythian nations of Tourau and the
North were generally addicted to the Scythic su
perstition ; and whenever they rolled back the
tide of war upon their ancient rivals; the idols
temples and cities were the objects upon which
they satiated their revenge. They were esteemed
excommunicated, and of the Giant race, Ne-
phelim, Rephaim and Anakim. The Scuths of
Iran were also of the Giant race, with Nimrod
as their chief. Of the Titanian war there appears
to be a double aspect. When the Scuths of
Touran are the Giants, the war between them
and the Ionim is the subject of the legend ; and
they are the Giants cast out into Cimmerian
darkness, and buried under mountains. The
other view presents both parties conjointly before
the schism, as the Nephelim, Apostates or Giants,
engaged in carrying on the war against Heaven
itself. And in these accounts we find more fre
quent allusions to the Tower and its supernatural
overthrow.
The catastrophe at Babel completed the dis
persion. On the division of the earth and plant
ing of the nations, there are some very curious
notices extant.* But whether Nimrod and his
immediate adherents survived, and retained pos-
* pp. 50, 52.
Digitized by Google
XIX
session of Babylon, or transferred their seat of
government to Nineveh and founded the great
Iranian empire, or whether that empire and city
were founded by Assur and the sons of Shem, is
still a subject of dispute. We find Nimrod, how
ever, under the well-known title of Alorus, at the
head of the two Chaldaean dynasties,* mentioned
above: but these appear rather to refer to the
antediluvian patriarchs than to the proper kings
of Chaldaea.
The first dynasty of Chaldaean KingsJ is
placed by almost all chronologists as the first
Iranian dynasty, that of Nimrod under the name
of Evechius, and his immediate descendants.
Evexius is also placed by Polyhistor as the first
Chaldaean king.§ The dynasty of the Arabian
kings of Chaldaea|| is placed by Eusebius, Syn-
cellus and others, as well as by Berossus, next in
the order of succession. They have likewise been
supposed to be a Scythic nation, which broke in
upon the empire from the Scythian settlements
of Cashgar, and obtained possession either of the
entire empire, or only of the city of Babylon,
during the period of its desolation, with the
plains of Shinar and the country round the head
of the Persian gulf, from whence they were ex
pelled, and discharged themselves upon Palestine
* pp. 30, 82. See also p. 170. f p . 67.
i p. 59. § p. 68.
Digitized by
X X
as the Palii Or Philistines, and upon Egypt as
the Hycsos or Shepherd Kings.*
Next in succession, according to Eusebius
and Syncellus, or perhaps contemporary with
the preceding, came the long line of the great
dynasty of the Assyrian Kings, who held the
empire of the world for ten or twelve centuries,
till their dominion was wrested from them by
the Medes in the time of Thonus Concolerus,
the Sardanapalus of the Greek historians. The
different catalogues of the great Assyrian suc
cession that are extant, will be found among the
Dynasties.! The overthrow of the Assyrian em
pire was followed by several years of universal
anarchy, bloodshedjand revolution. And it is as
certained, that it was during this scene of con
fusion that Jonah was sent upon his mission to
stop its progress at Nineveh.
Arbaces, the leader of the Median insurrec
tion, though he succeeded in throwing off the
Assyrian yoke, appears to have failed in his at-,
tempt to establish hie own sovereignty: nor was
the Median kingdom fully consolidated till the
reign of Dei’oces. The catalogues of the Median
kings will be found among the Dynasties.
Under Phraortes and Cyaxares the Medes ex
tended their dominion over great part of Asia, but
under Astyages, who was defeated and captured
* p. 169. f From p. 69.
Digitized by U.ooole
XXI
by Cyrus, the kingdom merged in the Persian
empire.
The Babylonians acquired a temporary inde
pendence at the fall of the Assyrian empire, but
after two or three short reigns they were subdued
by Senecherib.* Syria also became an inde
pendent kingdom, and prospered for a time, till
again reduced under the Assyrian yoke. Persia
at the same time arose, and alone maintained its
independence against the growing power of the
Medes and the new Assyrian dynasty, till the
successes of Cyrus raised it above them all, and
vested the empire of the world in the Persian
race.
The Assyrian empire revived under Nabo-
nasar, supposed to be the same with the Salraa-
nasar of the Scriptures. Of this dynasty three
several catalogues t will be found, the Ecclesi
astical and Astronomical canons preserved by
Syncellus, and the celebrated canon of Ptolemasus,
besides some other notices of the successors of
Nabonasar, among the supplemental Chaldsean
fragments. The first princes of the line appear to
have fixed their residence at Nineveh, and among
them we may recognize the Tiglath Pijeser,
Senecherib, and Esar Haddon of the Scriptures.
Their race appears to have terminated in Saracus,
another Sardanapalus. Nabopollasar, a success-
* pp. 61, 6a. f p. 78.
Digitized by Google
xxu
ful rebel, began the last line of the Assyrian and
Chaldsean monarchs.* He transferred the seat of
empire to Babylon, and in his reign, his cele
brated son, Nebuchadnezzar, extended his con
quests over the bordering kingdoms of the north
and west, by the reduction of Syria, Phoenicia,
Judaea, Egypt, and Arabia; an accurate account
of which is transmitted by Berossus.f On the
death of his father, Nebuchadnezzar succeeded
to the throne. Concerning him we have several
very interesting fragments from Berossus,t and
one from Megasthenes.| In these are detailed
the splendor of his works at Babylon, its cele
brated walls, and brazen gates ; its temples, pa
laces, and hanging gardens. The prophesy of
Nebuchadnezzar,§ probably alludes to the public
notification ofDaniel’s interpretation ofhis vision.
His successors, till the overthrow of the empire
by Cyrus, are given by Berossus and Megas-
thenes, and will be found also among the dynas
ties. || Among his four immediate successors we
must find Belshazzar, and Darius the Mede. The
latter has been generally supposed to be Nabon-
nedus, though some have endeavoured to identify
him with Cyaxares. The conquest of the Me
dian, Chaldaean, and Assyrian dominions by
Cyrus, grandson of Astyages, and the nephew of
Nebuchadnezzar, brings down the history to the
* p . 59. f p . 37, 38. +p. 44.
§ p. 45. || pp. 40, 45, 80, 81.
Digitized by C.ooQle
XXU1
authentic records of Grecian literature. The
.Persian line, the successors of Cyrus, will be
found in several different places, both among the
Chaldaean and Egyptian fragments.
The intense interest which Egyptian history
has excited, from the discovery of the interpreta
tion of the Hieroglyphics, has induced me to
spare no labour or expence in rendering this part
of the work as perfect as circumstances would
allow.
The Laterculus or Canon of the Kings of
Thebes,* was compiled from the archives of that
city, by Eratosthenes, the librarian of Ptolemaeus
Philadelphus. It is followed by the Old Egyptian'
Chronicle, with a Latin version of the same,
from the Excerpta Barbara, and another from the
Armenian Chronicle of Eusebius: they contain
a summary of the dynasties of Egypt. To these
succeed the Egyptian dynasties of Manetho,I
whose introductory letter to king Ptolemaeus,
given in a subsequent page,;}; explains the nature
of his work, and the materials from whence it
was compiled. I have placed the six different
versions of the Dynasties of Manetho that are
extant confronting each other. The Canon of the
kings of Egypt from Josephus,§ I have compiled
from the historical fragments of Manetho :|| and
* p. 84. f p. 94. Jp. 171. § p. 136.
|| pp. 170 and 173.
Digitized by k.ooQle
XXIV
I have thrown it into the form of a Canon to faci
litate comparison. I have next given a very im
portant Canon** the first part of which, from
Mestraim to the end of the seventeenth -dynasty,
is preserved by Syncellus only : from the begin
ning of the eighteenth it is continued also in the
fragments of Eusebius: and from hence to the con
clusion, four different versions of it will be found.
To these are added the -Canons of all the kings
of Egypt, mentioned by Diodorus Siculus^ and
Herodotus.^ They were originally compiled by
'Scaliger, but 1 have corrected them and given
them with several very important additions in
the original words of the authors, instead of in the
words of Scaliger himself. They are followed by
the Canon of Theophidus Antiochenus.§ And
after several very important chronological ex
tracts || upon the antiquities ofEgypt, I have com
pleted the Dynasties, with a Canon of the early
Egyptian, Chaldseaaa, and Assyrian Kings, from
the Syriac Chronicle of Bar-hehrroos :^[ which f
have placed beside each other ;as (they are syn-
chonized by that anther, and given them in the
English letters corresponding to the Syriac, in
stead of adopting the Latinized names of the
translators.
1 have, therefore, comprised in this part of
*p. 139. f p . 148. J 154. §p. 158.
||p . 159. U p . 170.
Digitized by Google
XXV
the work, no less than nineteen catalogue^ of the
Egyptian kings, with all the various readings
that occur in the different versions of the same.
They have been compiled with the greatest care,
and I have purposely abstained from all reference
to the Hieroglyphics, that I might not be misled
by any preconceived opinion.
At a time, when indefatigable research is every
day bringing to light new and interesting circum
stances, it would be absurd to attempt to give
any thing but the roughest outline of Egyptian
history. I shall merely observe, then, that after
the dispersion from Babel, the children of Miz-
raira went off to Egypt, of which they appear to
have continued some time in undisturbed posses
sion. Menes Misor. or Mestraim, the Mizraim
of the Scriptures, and planter of the nation, is
naturally placed as the first sovereign of the united
realm, at the head of all the catalogues. And
perhaps the dominion of Athothis was equally
extensive; for his name occurs in the Laterculus
of Eratosthenes; and as the Thoth or Taautus of
Sancboniatho. After him the country seems to
have .been, divided into several independent mo
narchies, some of.whose princes may perhaps be
found among the fourteen first dynasties. That the
country was so divided, and that the first dynasties
were not considered successive by the ancients, we
have the authority of Artapanus* and Eusebius.
, *p. 162.
e
Digitized by Googh
XXVI
The first historical fragment of Manetho,*
from Josephus, gives an account of the invasion
and expulsion of a race of foreigners, who were
styled Hycsos or Shepherd kings; whose princes
are identified with the seventeenth dynasty of all
the Canons except that given by Syncellus as the
canon of Africanus, in which they are placed as
the fifteenth. Of what family they were, whence
they came, and to what country they retired, have
been the subjects of almost as many hypotheses
as writers; 1 shall not venture a remark upon a
problem, of which there is every reason shortly
to expect a satisfactory solution. Josephus and
the Fathers confound them with the Israelites,
who appear rather to be referred to by the second
fragment^ as the lepers, who were so cruelly ill-
treated by the Egyptians, and afterwards laid
waste the country, assisted by a second invasion
of the Shepherds. To these fragments I have
subjoined sixj other very curious notices of the
exodus of the Israelites and the final expulsion of
the Shepherds ; which events appear to have been
connected with one another, as well as with the
emigration of the Danaan colonies to Greece,
not only in time, but by circumstances of a poli
tical nature,§ and to have occurred during the
sovereignty of the eighteenth dynasty. Tacitus
has also noticed the exodus, but in terms evi-
* p. 171. f p. 176. J p. 182. § See also the note to p. 166.
gitized by Google
xxvu
dently copied from some of those which I have
given : we have but few and scanty notices of the
kings of Egypt, even in Diodorus and Hero
dotus. Its conquest by Nebucchadnezzar is re
lated by Berossus,* and after two or three tem
porary gleams of independence, it sunk at length
into a province of the Persian empire, and from
that day to the present, according to the denun
ciation of the prophet,t Egypt has been the
basest of kingdoms, and under the yoke of
strangers.
The Tyrian Annals are fragments which were
quoted by Josephus from the lost histories of
Dius and Menander. They agree perfectly with
the scriptural accounts, and furnish some par
ticulars in addition. The correspondence of
Solomon and Hiram, the foundation of Carthage,
and the invasion, conquests, and repulse of Sal-
manasar; the siege of Tyre by Nebuchadnessar,
and its subsequent government under judges, are
historical additions of great interest and import
ance.
The Periplus of Hanno is an account of the
earliest voyage ofdiscovery extant. It was taken
from an original and apparently official document
which was suspended in the temple of Saturn, at
Carthage. Falconer has edited it as a separate
* p. 37. f Ezek. 29.
Digitized by Google
XXVU1
work, and gives two dissertations on it; the first,
explanatory of its contents; and the second, a
refutation of Dodwell’s reflections on its authen
ticity. 1 have followed Falconer both in his text
and translation. With respect to its age, Fal
coner agrees with Bougainville in referring it to
the sixth century before the Christian era.
The Periplus is prefaced by a few lines, re
citing a decree of the Carthaginiahs, relative
to' the voyage and its objects : and is then
continued by the commander, or one of his
companions, as a narrative, which commences
from the time the fleet had cleared the Straits of
Gibraltar. Bougainville has given a chart of the
voyage, which may be found, together with the
corresponding maps of Ptoleraaeus and D’Anville,
in Falconer’s treatise. It may be sufficient, how
ever, to remark that Thymiaterium, the first of
the colonies planted by Hanno, occupies a posi
tion very nearly, perhaps precisely the same with
that of the present commercial city of Mogadore.
The promontory of Soloeis corresponds with Cape
Bojador, nearly opposite to the Canaries. Cari-
contichos, Gytte, Acra, Melitta and Arambys
are placed between Cape Bojador and the Rio
d’Ouro which is supposed to be the Lixus.
Cerne is laid down as the island of Arguin under
the southern Cape Blanco : the river Chretes
perhaps is the St. John, and the next large
river mentioned is the Senegal. Cape Palmas
Digitized by C.ooole
XXIX
and Cape Three Points, are supposed to corres
pond respectively with the Western and Southern
Homs, and some island in the bight of Benin,
with that of Gorillae. Vossius, however, sup
poses the Western Horn to be Cape Verd, and
the Southern, Cape Palmas, in which case the
Sierra Leone will answer to the Ochema Theon
the Chariot of the Gods.
T he description of the Troglodytae, as men
of a different form or appearance, may imply a
change from the Moresco to the Negro race.
Some passages, quoted by Falconer from Bruce’s
travels, explain the extraordinary fires and nightly
merriment which alarmed the voyagers, as cus
toms common among many of the negro tribes,
and' which had repeatedly fallen within the scope
of his own observations. The Gorillae are sup
posed to be large monkeys or wild men as the
name Mptnu a
ry
p
io
t may in fact import.
The Periplus is followed by a strange account
of the African settlements, from the books of
Hiempsal king of Numidia, preserved by Sallust.
Of the Indian fragments of Megasthenes, the
most remarkable has already been referred to.
In the two great divisions of the Philosophical
sects.-f' into the Brahmanes and Germanes, we
may doubtless recognize the predecessors of the
*p. 224.
Digitized by Google
XXX
present Brachmans and Buddhists of Hindostan.
They are likewise mentioned by Clitarchus * as
the Brahmanes and Pramnae. The castes of India
are also described at length, t and have continued
with some variations to the present day. The an
tiquity of such a division is very great, and per
haps originated at the dispersion, as it prevailed
chiefly among the Ionic nations, while the Scythic
tribes prided themselves upon their independence,
and the nobility of the whole race. Megasthenes
is reputed to have been a Persian, and an officer, in
the army of Alexander in his expedition to India,
and was employed upon several negociations of
consequence.
I have next given two short notices of some
celebrated islands in the Atlantic and Indian
oceans. The first, J upon the Atlantic island, is
quoted by Proclus, from the Ethiopic history of
Marcellus, in illustration of the passages of Plato
in the Timaeus relative to the same. Some have
looked upon the relation as worthy of credit, and
confirmed by the broken nature of all the islands,
which lie scattered between the old and the new
world, regarding them as relics of a former tract
which has been absorbed. The second fragment
from Euemerus may relate to the islands in the
Indian Archipelago ; though it is highly probable
* p. 229. + P-216. X P-283-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
XXXI
that both may refer only to the White island of
the W est, so celebrated in the Mythological le
gends of almost all nations, and in none more
than in the antiquities of the British islands.
As I profess not to enter into the details, but
merely to provide as it were the raw materials, I
shall dwell but little upon Chronology. By far
the most authentic record that has come down to
us is the Canon of Ptolemaeus.* It commences
from the Chaldaean era of Nabonasar, and is
continued to the conclusion of the reign of Anto
ninus Pius. In calculating its chronology, how
ever, it must be observed, that although it starts
from this Chaldaean era, its years are the Sothoic
years of Egypt, consisting only of three hundred
and sixty-five days, without any intercalation.
Among the Chronological fragments at the end
of the work will be found the passage of Censo-
rinus,t so important in determining the celebrated
epochs of ancient history; and likewise an ex
tract from Theon Alexandrinus,}; from the ma
nuscripts of the King of France, partly cited
by Larcher in his translation of Herodotus. § For
the complete extract, I beg leave to return my
thanks to Mons. Champollion Figeac, and Mons.
Hase librarian to the king. Several useful chro
nological passages will be found scattered over,
*p . 83. f p. 324. %p. 329. § Vol. ii. p. 556.
Digitized by Google
xxxn
the work : some also are collected at the end of
the Dynasties.* I have added also two short
notices of the Sarus and Nerus of the Chal-
daeans.f
It is remarkable, that the three great eras of
ancient history commence within thirty years of
one another, and are commonly fixed.
The first Olympiad, B. C. 777.
The foundation of Rome, B. C. 753.
And the era of Nabonasar, B. C. 747.
The commencement of the reign of Diocle-
sian is determinedby the observed and calculated
eclipses to be in the year A. D. 284. The begin
ning of the great Sothoic period of 1641*Sothoie
or vague years, equivalent to 1640 Julian years,
is fixed about the year B. C. 1321, or 1325. Dur
ing this great embolismic period, the first day of
the Egyptian year, called Thoth, from the omission
of the intercalation of>the quarter of a day in each
year, recedes through every day of the year, till
it arrives at the point whence it originally
started, and again coincides with the Heliacal
rising of the Dogstar. 1
Having thus brought down the. ancient his
tory of the world as contained in the fragments
to the times of Grecian record, I shall endeavour,
in like manner, to trace a faint outline of its
•Theology. <
<
* pp. 328, 329. t p.328.
Digitized by C j o o o l e
xxxm
' From Babel, the centre of their abominations,
the heathens carried off the same objects of ado
ration, the same superstitious observances, and
the same legendary tales, which, however varied
and confused, may without difficulty be identified
throughout the world. Among the pastoral
tribes, the Scythic doctrines almost universally
prevailed ; yet in subsequent times they also fell
into idolatry : while the Ionic nations carried their
additions and corruptions to such a length, that
the original and more simple doctrines became
obliterated among the vulgar; and were retained
only by the philosophers and priests, and some
times were even re-imported from abroad. The
more elaborate corruptions of lonism appear to
have prevailed originally in the Iranian territories
only, and to have passed to India and to Egypt,
•to have spread themselves with civilization over
Greece, and subsequently over the whole Roman
world. By foreign conquest and other circum
stances, the two systems were often amalgamated
into one. The more elaborate and corrupted
form of lonism and idolatry would catch the
attention of the casual observer as the religion of
the land; while the deeper doctrines, which re
tained much of their primitive simplicity, were
wrapped in mystery, and communicated only to
the initiated.
Most nations, in process of time, became more
attached to particular parts, and retained but
f
XXXIV
fragments of the general system. But it is still
in existence, and preserved almost entire, both in
its Scythic and Ionic form, as the Buddhism and
Brahmenism of Hindostan. By comparing all
the varied legends of the west and east in con
junction, we may obtain the following outline of
the theology of the ancients.
It recognizes, as the primary elements of all
things, two independent principles, of the nature
of male and female. And these, in mystic union
as the soul and body, constitute the great Her-
maphroditic deity, the One, the Universe itself,
consisting still of the two separate elements of its
composition, modified, though combined in one
individual, of which all things were regarded but
as parts. From the two, or more frequently
from the male, proceeded three sons or Hypos
tases ; which, when examined severally, are each
one and the same with the principle from which
they sprung; but when viewed conjointly, they
constitute a triad, emanating from a fourth yet
older divinity, who, by a mysterious act of self-
triplication, becomes three, while he yet remains
but one, each member of the triad being ulti
mately resolvable into the monad.* With this is
connected the doctrine of a succession of similar
worlds. At the conclusion of each revolving
period, the world is dissolved, alternately by
* See Faber at length upon thia subject, Pag. Id. Vol< II.
Digitized by
X X X V
flood and fire; and all its varied forms and parts
are absorbed into the two primeval principles,
which then remain in the loveliness of their exist
ence. After a certain interval their re-union
commences, and with it the reconstruction of
another world. As before, the first production of
this world is the triad, and the same heroes and
persons re-appear; and the same events are again
transacted, till the time arrives for another dis
solution, Such was the system in its original
form ; it was a foundation of materialism, upon
which was raised a superstructure of idolatry.
The most remarkable feature in the heathen
theology is the multiplicity of its gods. The
easy temper of polytheism, as it has been called,
hesitated not to adopt the divinities of the sur
rounding nations; while the deification, not only of
heroes and kings, but of the virtues and vices,
with the genii of the woods and waters, mourn
tains and cities, contributed to introduce new
and strange inmates into the Pantheon. But if
we eject these modern intruders, if we restore to
their original seats the imported deities, such as
Pan to Arcadia, Hermes to Egypt, Osiris to
Memphis, Hercules to Tyre, and Dionysus to
India; and if we investigate the origin of each,
we shall find every nation, notwithstanding the
variety of names, acknowledging the same deities
and the same system of theology : and, however
humble any of the deities may appear in the
Digitized by t j O O Q l e
XXXVI
Pantheons of Greece and Rome, each, who has
any claim to antiquity, will be found ultimately,
if not immediately, resolvable into the original
God or Goddess, into one or other of the two
primeval principles.
In conducting such an investigation, a very
singular circumstance presents itself in the mani
fold character of these deities. Their human or
terrestrial appearance, as mere mortals deified is
the most obvious; as the sun, moon, elements,
and powers of nature, they assume a celestial or
physical aspect. And if we turn to the writings
of the philosophers, we shall find them sustain
ing a character more abstract and metaphysical.
Yet under all these different forms, the same'
general system is preserved.
In his terrestrial character, the chief Hero
God, under whatever name, is claimed by every
nation as its progenitor and founder. And
not only is he celebrated as the king of that
country in particular, but of the whole-world.
He is exposed to some alarming danger from the
sea, or an evil principle or monster by which the
sea is represented. He is nevertheless rescued by
some friendly female aid, sometimes concealed in
a cavern or in the moon, or preserved in a death
like sleep, borne upon a snake, or floating on an
island or a lotus, though more frequently in a boat
or ark. At length he awakens from his slumber,
subdues his enemy, and lands upon a mountain.
Digitized by G,ooole
XXXV11
He then reorganizes the world, and becomes him
self the father primarily of three sons, and through
them, of the human race; not unfrequently with
some allusions to the dove and rainbow. In fact,
in his human character he was the great father of
mankind; but he may not only be identified with
Noah but with Adam likewise. The one was
looked upon as the re-appearance of the other,
and both an incarnation of the Deity.
In his immediate celestial character the God
is universally held to be the Sun; but the cha
racter of the great Goddess is of a more complex
description. As the companion of the man, she
is the ark; which was regarded not only as his
consort, but his daughter, as the work of his own
hands; and his mother, from whose womb he
again emerged, as an infant, to a second life; and
his preserver during the catastrophe of the de
luge. As the companion of the Sun she is either
the earth or moon: not that the distinctions be
tween the human and celestial characters are
accurately maintained; for they are so strangely
blended together, that the adventures applicable
to one are frequently, and sometimes purposely,
misapplied to the other. Thus, whilst the Man
is said to have entered into, been concealed in,
and have again issued from the ark, the moon,
and the earth, indifferently, the Sun is fabled to
have been plunged into the ocean, to have sailed
upon a lotus, to have taken refuge in a floating
Digitized by Google
XXXVIU
island, and to have dwelt upon a sacred mountain
left dry by the retiring flood.*
It has been often remarked, that the Theo-
gonies and Cosmogonies of the heathens were
the same. In addition to those naturally con
stituting a part of the work, I have given the
most remarkable of the Hermetic, Orphic, and
Pythagorean accounts; which will be found, with
the celebrated collection from Damascius, under
a separate head.f By comparing these with the
Cosmogonies of Sanchoniatho, Berossus, and the
rest, we may, without much difficulty, arrive at
the following conclusion: that the Ether and
Chaos, or, in the language of the Philosophers,
Mind and Matter, were the two primeval, eternal,
and independent principles of the universe; the
one regarded as a vivifying and intellectual prin
ciple, the other as a watery Chaos, boundless, and
without form: both which continued for a time
without motion, and in darkness. By a mystic
union of the two was formed the great Herron
phroditic deity, the One, the universal World; of
which the Chaotic matter presently became the
body, and the Etherial Intellectual principle the
soul. As soon as the union had commenced,
from the Ether sprung forth the triad, Phanes or
Eros, a triple divinity, the most prominent cha
racter of which was light. He was the same
with the Soul of the World, and the Intelligible
• See Faber, Pag. Id. f p. 283, and following.
Digitized by Google
XXXIX
triad so largely insisted upon by the Platonists.
The gross chaotic elements of Earth and Water
were formed into the terraqueous globe, while the
disposing Ether, in the character of Phanes, un
der some three of the Conditions of Light, Air,
Heat, Fire, Ether, Flame, or Spirit, composed a
physical trinity Concentred in the Sun, the soul
and ruler of the world. Or, according to the
more refined speculations, it consisted of a trinity
of mental powers, in which the Understanding,
Reason or Intellect, the Soul, Passions, Feelings
or Affections, Power, Counsel or Will, are va
riously combined. Viewed* therefore, either
under a physical or metaphysical aspect, it is
still a triad subordinate to, and emanating from
the more ancient Intellectual Ether, and into
which each person of the triad is again re*
solvable.*
With respect to the Physical triad, by com
paring the heathen accounts with similar passages
in the Scriptures, though not decisive, yet so
preponderating does the evidence appear to me
Upon this point, that if the school of Hutchinson
had not failed to establish their very elegant hy
pothesis, as to the fact that the Fire, Light, and
Spirit or Air, Were only three different condi
tions of one and the same etherial fluid, appear
ing as Fire at the orb of the Sun, as Light pro-
* See the Inquiry at the end.
Digitized by
xl
ceeding from it, and as Spirit returning to it,
I should not have hesitated to subscribe to the
opinion that such was the original trinity of the
Gentiles; a triad, nevertheless, subordinate to a
monad, which existed in the form of Ether pre
viously to its assuming such conditions.
The Metaphysical speculations of the ancients
upon this subject can only be derived by analo
gical reasoning from contemplation of the micro
cosm of man. To point out the close analogy
preserved in this particular between the Meta
physical and Physical system before explained I
would observe, that Man is a being compounded
of an Intellectual, and of a Material substance,
both of which were conceived by the ancients to
have pre-existed, before they became united in
the compound individual animal, the Man. When
thus united, they appear to have conceived a
triad of intellectual powers, the Intellect, the
Affections Feelings or Emotions, and the Will
or Power of action. But for further illustration
of these matters, and for such proof as can be
produced, I must refer to the disquisition at the
end.
Upon this subject, therefore, I cannot agree
with Mr. Faber in supposing that the trinita
rian speculations of the Heathens originated in
the coincidence of Adam and Noah being each
the father of three sons; for of the three dis
tinct analogical systems the Metaphysical, of the
Digitized by U.ooQle
xli
Mind with its Faculties, and Matter,—the Physi
cal, of the Ether with its conditions, and the
Chaos,—and the Human, of the Patriarch with
his three sons, and the universal mother the Ark
or Earth,—the last analogy is not only the most
imperfect, but according to all historical ac
counts, Demonolatry was introduced subsequently
to the worship of nature and the elements.
From the widely dispersed traditions upon
the subject, it is manifest that the circumstances
of the creation and the deluge were well known
to all mankind previously to the dispersion. And
the writings of Moses give to the chosen people,
not so much a new revelation as a correct, authen
ticated and inspired account of circumstances,
which had then become partially obscured by
time and. abused by superstition. The formless
watery Chaos and the Etherial substance of the
heavens, enfolding and passing over its surface
as a mighty wind, are the first principles both of
the sacred and profane cosmogonies; but they
are reclaimed by Moses as the materials, created
by the immediate •agency of an Almighty power.
The subsequent process of formation so com
pletely corresponds in both systems, that if they
were not borrowed the one from the other, (a po
sition which cannot be maintained,) they must
each have been ultimately derived from the com
mon source of revelation. Similar considerations
upon the traditions of a Trinity, so universal
Digitized by Google
xlii
among the nations, and an examination of what
that Trinity was composed, forces upon me the
conviction, that the trinitarian doctrine, as it is
now believed, was one of the original and funda
mental tenets of the Patriarchal religion; that the
analogy between the Microcosm, as pointed out,
and the then current accounts of the creation/
became the stumbling block, which set mankind
to refine upon the truth; that hence they fell into
the errors of attributing eternity to matter, of
placing a Monad above the Trinity, with the
Pantheistic opinion that the Deity was no other
than the universe itself. The doctrine of the
succession of worlds, the Metempsychosis, and
Demonolatry would follow naturally enough by
an extension of their system from the particular
circumstances of the creation to those attendant
upon the deluge. By the pride of false philo
sophy they forsook the truth of revelation, and
sunk into materialism, into the worship of the
elements, of man and beasts, and into idolatry
with all its attendant abominations. *When
they knew God, they glorified him not as God;
neither were thankful; but became vain in their
imaginations, and their foolish heart was dark
ened. Professing themselves to be wise, they
became fools; and changed the glory of the in
corruptible God into an image made like to
corruptible man, and to birds, and four-footed
beasts, and creeping things. Wherefore, God
Digitized by G,OOQle
xliii
gave them up to uncleauness through the lusts of
tbeir own hearts.’*
To reclaim a world so fallen, the great mani
festations of the Almighty from time to time have
taken place, not only at the most civilized as
Well as celebrated periods of history, but upon
the spots then best calculated for the general dis
semination of truth among the heathens. The
geographical situation of Palestine, chosen it
may be for the seat of universal empire, is the
most remarkable upon earth for the facility of
communication which it affords with every
quarter of the globe. At the time of the Advent,
it formed as it were the boundary of the rival
empires of Rome and Parthia, subject to Rome,
but holding an intimate connexion with its colo
nial offspring within the Parthian dominions.
And its situation was at that time not more ex
cellently adapted for the universal diffusion of
the Gospel, both in the East and West, than
it was for the general instruction of mankind,
in times of old, when it formed so considerable
a part of the high road of communication between
the empires of Egypt and Assyria. About the
time of the eighteenth dynasty, the most brilliant
epoch of Egyptian history, the Exodus of the
Israelites was effected : and the fame of the mi-
* Romans, i. 21.
Digitized by Google
xliv
raculous exploits of Moses and Joshua was
wafted with the Danaan colonies to Greece, with
the fugitive Canaanites to the West, and carried
by the Israelites themselves into the East.
During the revolutionary violence consequent
upon the downfall of the ancient Assyrian em
pire, the same merciful Providence kept up a
communication with the kingdoms which sprung
out of its ruins, by the mission of Jonah to Ni
neveh, by the connexion of the princes of Sa
maria with Syria, and by the dispersion of the
ten tribes over the territories of the Medes and
Assyrians by Salmanasar: and upon the full
re-establishment of the empire at Babylon, a
knowledge of the truth was diffused far and wide
by the captivity of the Jews themselves.
The conversion of Nebuchadnezzar, and the
decrees of himself and his successors, both of the
Assyrian and Persian line, in favour of the truth,
must have been attended with at least some tem
porary effect upon the religious and philosophical
sentiments of the East. And such an effect may
be clearly traced in the very general reformation
of the systems and superstitions which about this
period took place.
Among the Persians, themselves a Scythic
people, this reformation appears to have re-ani-
mated their zeal and enmity against the temples
and idolatry of their Ionian rivals. It may also
have led them to convert the two independent
Digitized by Google
xlv
principles of Mind and Matter into spiritual
agents in opposition to one another, and to have
revived the unmingled worship of the Sun and
Fire, at first but as an emblem and image of the
Supreme, though it soon again degenerated into
the Sabaism of old. The reformation may be
traced through Assyria, India, China and Egypt,
and in those amendments and refinements which
were shortly afterwards imported by Pythagoras
into Greece.
A summary of the Pythagorean doctrines will
be found in the commencement of the celebrated
treatise of Timaeus Locrus.* It may be observed,
that the Pythagorean speculations have a tacit
reference to the ancient classification of Causes, as
the Efficient, the Formal or Ideal, the Material
and the Final. In conformity to this division we
find introduced between the two ancient inde
pendent principles of Mind and Matter, the
world of Forms or abstract Ideas, to which is
attributed an eternal subsistence, if not an exis
tence independent of the Mind ; whilst the t
Good in the abstract, the summum bonum, the
great final cause, became the subject of perpetual
discussion and inquiry among all succeeding phi
losophers.
The Forms and Matter were now substituted
for the ancient Duad ; superior to which was
* I have given it p. 301.
Digitized by C.ooole
xlvi
placed the Efficient Cause as the Monad, Deity,
or Demiurgus. This Dnad was, nevertheless, re
garded as two eternal and independent principles,
and by their combination the Deity formed the
Sensible world, a living animal, composed of soul
and body. Subordinate to the duad is the Py
thagorean Triad, occupying the same relative
situation with respect to the duad as in the more
ancient systems. By this introduction of the
Ideal world, and the elevation of the deity above
the duad, the system lost something of the gross
materialism which had hitherto obtained, but it
lost, at the same time, all knowledge of the an
cient triad, which was now replaced by ‘such
triads as were more conformable to the Pytha
gorean mode, and of which the persons were often
subordinate to, or comprehended within each
other, as genera and species.*
The doctrines of Plato differ only in refine
ment from the preceding. If we admit the Par
menides and the Timaeus to embrace his com
plete system, God and'Matter, two originally in
dependent principles, are held to be, as it were,
the extremities of that chain of being which com
poses the universe. Subordinate to the God, wt*
have the Intelligible world of Ideas or the ‘
Forms,
commencing, as the latter Platonists insist, with
the Intelligible triad: but whether Plato regarded
* See the Pythagorean1fragments, p. 301.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
xlvii
this world of Ideas in the abstract as subsisting
only within the mind of the Deity, or whether he
attributed to it a distinct existence* without the
Mind, comprehending different orders of divine
super-essential beings, may well be questioned.
When -the Deity or Demiurgus thought proper to
compose the world, he looked to this ideal world
as the exemplar, in whose likeness he constructed
his new work. He impressed the disordered
material Chaos with the Forms, and rendered the
world a living animal, after the pattern of its ideal
prototype, consisting of a soul endued with Intel
lect, and of a body of which all beings compre
hended in it, Gods Men Animals or material
species, are but the concrete individuals, of which
the abstract ideas unalterably subsist in the intel
ligible world. Though still supposed to continue
in existence, the Deity, as in the more ancient
systems, retires as effectually from the stage as
did the ancient Ether when superseded by the
Phanes. And all the mundane operations are
carried on as before, by the Soul of the world.
While the Stoics and other schools retained
the ancient doctrines, and looked not further than
* Existence, according to the ancients, implies essence;
whereas the Ideal world was deemed snper-essential: but I am
compelled to use the words to make myself understood; for the
English language has not been sufficiently accommodated to
these metaphysical subtleties of the Greeks to supply the requi
site terms.
Digitized by Google
xlviii
the world itself, it is true that the Pythagoreans
and.Plato held a God superior to the world; but
it is extremely doubtful whether they entertained
a sublimer conception of their great immediate
efficient cause, the Soul of the world, or indeed
of Soul in general, than the gross materialism of
a subtile ether. They discouraged, likewise, the
tenet of the succession of worlds; though it was
subsequently revived by the later Platonists, by
whom the Deity was supposed, at the predestined
time, to swallow up the world, first the sensible,
then the Ideal, and lastly Phanes the Intelligible
triad, and to remain in the solitude of his unity.
Much as has been said upon the Platonic
trinity, I must confess that 1 can find fewer traces
of that doctrine in the writings of Plato than of
his less refined predecessors, the mythologists. I
have given such extracts as appear to me *to
relate to the subject, together with a fragment of
Amelius* which,expressly mentions the three
kings of Plato as identical with the Orphic trinity.
Dr..Morgan, in his essay upon the subject, satis
factorily refutes the notion, that Plato regarded
the Logos as the second person of the trinity :f
• p. 305.
j - The cel ebrated passage in the Epinomis of Plato S w a i r o T t -
XSv xia-fM
v ov era(e Xoyof o Tcduruv ^eiorarof ipativ, usually rendered,
“ Perfecting the visible world, which the word, the most divine
of all things, made,” refers to a very different subject. The
inquiry in this part of the dialogue relates to the knowledge of
number, without which it is asserted a man cannot have Xoyof
Digiti: ,Google
xlix
%
and upon this refutation he denies that Plato
held the doctrine at all, more particularly, as from
the time of Plato to that of Ammonius Saccas
in the third century, no disciple of his school
seems to have been aware that such a doctrine
was contained in his writings. Perhaps, how
ever, we may trace some obscure allusions to it
in the beginning of the second hypothesis of the
Parmenides and in the passages which I have
reason; and if destitute of reason, he cannot attain wisdom.
The God, which imparted to man the knowledge of numbers, is
the Heaven, for there are eight powers contained in it akin to
each other, that of the Sun, of the Moon, &c. to whom, he says,
must be assigned equal honour—“ For let us not assign to one
the honour of the year, to another the honour of the month, and
to others none of that portion of time, in which each performs its
course in conjunction with the others, accomplishing that visible
order which reason, the most divine of all things (or of the Uni
verse,) has established.
The no less celebrated passage from the Philebus, “On nvc
tan ytvoZantj; tov •adyrur alrlov, by which it is supposed that the
consubstantiality of the Logos with the first cause is asserted,
relates to the human mind, and is the conclusion of an argument
which proves, that as ordinary fire is derived from the elemental,
and the human body from the elemental body of the world, so is
the human mind akin to, or of the same nature with the Divine
mind, or Soul of the universe, the cause of all things. These
and other less celebrated passages of Plato, when examined in
conjunction with this context, afford us, as Dr. Morgan justly
observes, no more foundation for supposing that Plato held
the doctrine of the Trinity than the following very curious pas
sage, which he produces from Seneca, gives us ground to
suppose that it was held by the Stoics: “ Id actum est, mihi
crede ab illo, quisquis formator universi fuit, sive ille Deus est
h
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
I
given ;* though in the latter the doctrines appear
rather to refer to the Monad and Duad than to
the genuine trinity of the ancients. So far from
any such doctrine being maintained by the Py
thagoreans or in the Academy, we find only
such vague allusions as might be expected among
philosophers, who reverenced an ancient tradition,
and were willing, after they had lost the substance,
to find something to which they might attach the
The error which Dr. Morgan has refuted, took
its rise with the fathers of the Church in the se
cond century. They were led into the mistake
by the word Logos, used by Plato and St. John,
and made the Platonic Trinity to consist of God,
the Logos, and the Soul of the world, and this
in spite of all the professed followers of Plato,
who, however they might vary among them
selves, uniformly insisted upon placing the Mo-
potens omnium, sive incorporalia ratio ingentium operum artifex,
sive divinus spiritus per omnia maxima minima, aequali intentione
diffusus, sive fatum et immutabilis causarum inter se cohaeren-
tium series.”f To the observations from Dr. Morgan’s work, I
may venture to add that the word Logos, as used by St. John
and Plato, has two very distinct significations. By the latter,
Reason in general is implied, whereas St. John uses it as a trans
lation of the Hebrew d b r , the Word signifying also a thing or
person revealed, and if at all in the sense of reason, which may
be implied from the commentaries of the fathers, not for reason
in general, but for the particular faculty so called.
shadow.
* p. 304. f Consol, ad Helv. c. 8.
Digitized by
li
nad and Duad, or at least a Monad, above their
Triad.
In the first century of the Christian era, Philo,
an Alexandrian Jew, had attempted to expound
the Scripture on Platonic principles; and after the
promulgation of the Gospel many of the fathers
warmly adopted the same mode of exposition.
The different sects of the Gnostics went far be
yond the Grecian sage, and sought in the East
the doctrines, to which they looked upon the
writings of Plato merely as essays, introductory to
the sublimer flights of the Oriental mysticism:
and they treated his followers with that contempt,
against which the vanity of a philosopher is
seldom proof; and as long as these schools exist
ed, a bitter enmity prevailed between them. The
Gnostics gave at once a real existence to the Ideal
world, and continuing the chain of being from
the Supreme, through numerous orders of Eons,
personified abstract ideas, of which the second
and third persons of the Trinity were the first
and second Eons, and from thence to the lowest
material species, founded that daring heresy
which so long disturbed the tranquillity of Chris
tendom : and with this spurious Platonism of
the fathers the Arian* heresy is likewise intimately
connected.
* It is curious to observe the Arian and.Orthodox illustra
tions of Eusebius and Epiphanius. The former illustrates the
Trinity by the Heaven, the Sun, and the Spirit; or the Heaven, the
Digitized by
lii
But the internal heresies of the Church were
not the only ill effects which the misguided zeal
of the fathers, in forcing upon Plato the doctrine
of the Trinity, brought about. Though it is pos
sible, that by pointing out some crude similarity
of doctrine, they might have obtained some con
verts by rendering Christianity less unpalatable
to the philosophical world of that day, yet the
weapon was skilfully turned against them, and
with unerring effect, when the Pagans took upon
them to assert that nothing new had been revealed
in Christianity; since, by the" confessions of its
very advocates, the system was previously con
tained in the writings of Plato.
In the third century, Ammonius Saccas, uni
versally acknowledged to have been a man of
consummate ability, taught that every sect,
Christian, Heretic or Pagan, had received the
truth, and retained it in their varied legends. He
undertook, therefore, to unfold it from them all,
and to reconcile every creed. And from his ex
ertions sprung the celebrated Eclectic school of
the later Platonists. Plotinus, Amelius, Olym-
pius, Porphyrius, Jamblichus, Syrianus, and
Proclus, were among the celebrated professors
Sun, and the Moon, the two latter as the leaders of innumerable
host of spirits and stars, evidently derived from the prevailing
notions of the Fathers relative to the Platonic trinity; whilst
Epiphanius declares, that this great mystery is properly under
stood as Fire, Light, and Spirit or Air reveal it to us.
Digitized by C.ooQle
liii
who succeeded Ammonius in the Platonic chair,
and revived and kept alive the spirit of Paganism,
with a bitter enmity to the Gospel, for near three
hundred years. The Platonic schools were at
length closed by the edict of Justinian; and seven
wise men, the last lights of Platonism, Diogenes,
Hermias, Eulalius, Priscianus, Damascius, Isido-
rus and Simplicius retired indignantly from the
persecutions of Justinian, to realize the shadowy
dreams of the republic of Plato, under the Persian
despotism of Chosroes.*
From the writings of these philosophers is
collected the bulk of the Oracles of Zoroaster,t
A few of them were first published by Ludovicus
Tiletanus at Paris, with the commentaries of
Pletho, to which were subsequently added those
of Psellus. Chief part of them, however, were
collected by Franciscus Patricius, and pub
lished with the Hermetic books at the end of
his Nova Philosophia. To the labours of Mr.
Taylor we are indebted for the addition of about
fifty more, and for the references to the works
from whence all were extracted. I have arranged
them according to the subjects, which are said to
be occultly discussed in the Parmenides of Plato,
viz. : Cause or God, the Ideal Intelligible or
Intellectual world, Particular Souls, and the
Material world. And I have placed under a
* For the particulars of this philosophical transaction see
Gibbon, c. xl. p. 239.
Digitized by G.ooQle
liv
separate head the Magical and Philosophical
precepts and directions. There can be no ques
tion hut that many of these Oracles are spurious;
all those, for instance, which relate to the Intelli
gible and Intellectual orders, which were con
fessedly obtained in answers given by daemons,
raised for that purpose by the Theurgists ;* who,
as well as all the later Platonists, made preten
sions to magic, not only in its refinements, which
they were pleased to designate Theurgy, but also
in that debased form which we should call com
mon witchcraft. Nevertheless, several of the
Oracles seem to be derived from more au
thentic sources, and, like the spurious Hermetic
books which have come down to us, probably
contain much of the pure Sabiasm of Persia,
and the doctrines pf the Oriental philosophy.
I have thus endeavoured to give I fear a very
imperfect outline of ancient history and theology.
But, as it is intended rather to assist the reader
through such an heterogeneous heap of materials,
by bringing forward the most prominent parts
and connecting them with one another, I trust
its errors will be excused, as they may be cor
rected by the readers better judgment from the
materials themselves before him. In closing the
* The Theurgists were the two Julians, the father called
Chaldaeus, the son, Theurgus. They flourished in the reign of
Marcus Antoninus, and were the first who delivered the oracles
upon the Intelligible and Intellectual orders.
Digitized by G o o g l e
lv
subject, I beg to offer my sincerest thanks to
Isaac Cullimore, Esq., to whose deep and exten
sive chronological researches, I am indebted for
references to several very important passages in
the following work, which had escaped my notice.
It is needless to take notice of the numerous
forgeries, which have been issued as the produc
tions of the authors of these fragments. There
is a complete set, which was composed in Latin
by Annius, a monk of Viterbo. But it is a sin
gular circumstance, and one which might be
urged with great force against the genuineness of
almost the whole collection, that not only the
original works have perished, but those also,
through whose means these relics have been
handed down. With the exception of these frag
ments, not only have Sanchoniatho, Berossus,
and the rest passed into oblivion; but the pre
servers of their names have followed in the same
track, and to a more unusual fate. The frag
ments of Philo, Abydenus, Polyhistor, Dius,
and others, are generally not those of their own
works, but extracts from their predecessors.
It is necessary also to advert to the nume
rous errors which will be found in every sheet.
The fragments have been exposed to more than
the common risks and accidents, to which all
ancient writings have been subject. They have
been either copied from the rude annals of anti-
Digitized by G o o g l e
hi
quity, or sketched from historical paintings or
hieroglyphic records, they have been sometimes
translated from the sacred into the common lan
guage of the place, and again translated into
Greek; then passed in citation from hand to
hand, and lie widely scattered over the works
principally of the fathers, and the writers of the
Lower empire. It is matter of surprise then, not
that they abound in error and uncertainty, but
that so much of them has been preserved.
Several of these fragments are to be found in
two or three different authors, each of whom
contains a different version of the same, differing,
not so much in the outline, and in the general
flow of words, as in those technicalities and va
riations of termination, which were necessary to
adapt them to the author’s style; and it has been
a source of some little perplexity to determine
which of these various readings to prefer.
To Eusebius, Syncellus and Josephus, we
are largely indebted for these relics of antiquity.
For Josephus I have followed Hudson’s edition.
The Cologne edition of the Praeparatio Evange-
lica of Eusebius is often considered the best: but
upon close inspection and comparison I have been
induced to prefer the text of Stephanus. With
the exception of a mutilated translation into
Latin by Hieronymus, Eusebius’ Chronicle was
lost. Under that title, however, Scaliger com-
Digitized by Google
lvii
piled a very portly folio, which, with some other
Chronicles, contains a collection of all the frag
ments of the Greek text of Eusebius, that could
be found. The recovery of the Armenian trans
lation of this Chronicle is a great acquisition. It
is regarded upon the Continent as perfectly au
thentic ; but I am not aware that it has been ex
amined or reviewed in England. To compress as
much as possible all unnecessary observations upon
the subject of materials, editions and abbrevia
tions, I have given at the end a list of the authors
cited, which will answer at once the several pur
poses of an index to the abbreviations, and to the
editions I have used or referred to, as well as to
the manuscripts and other sources from which
some Of those editions have been formed, or which
have been consulted in the compilation of the
work. I have likewise given it the form of a
Chronological index, by adding the times in
which the authors referred to flourished, that the
reader may judge what degree of credit may be
reposed in each.
The matter contained in these fragments is
the only merit to which they can pretend. I have
chosen what appeared to me the most genuine
text, independent of all theory and system, and
have given all the various readings of any conse
quence I have met with. I have retained Mr.
Falconer’s translation of Hanno’s Periplus; and
with this exception, and some few of the most
i
Digitized by G.oooLe
lviii
obscure of the oracles of Zoroaster, which are
due to Mr. Taylor, I must be answerable for the
rest. For the many errors in which they must
abound, I beg leave to apologize and claim in
dulgence. The broken and confused state of
many of the fragments, preclude the possibility of
giving any translation, except upon conjecture.
Many, such as the Orphic fragment from Malala,*
and that from Amelius,t have exercised the talent
and ingenuity of some of the ablest commentators,
none of whom perhaps will be found to agree. In
such cases, I have patiently compared their opi
nions, and endeavoured to investigate the circum
stances under which the fragments were written
and have been preserved, and what connexion
they have with the passages among which they
are introduced, and to give, what to the best of
my judgment is, the truth.
At the conclusion of this work 1 have added a
disquisition, which was originally designed merely
to explain and illustrate what I conceive to have
been the ancient Trinity of the Gentiles : but in
the progress of inquiry 1 found it impossible to
do justice to the opinion without speaking largely
upon ancient and modern science. To compress
it, therefore, as much as possible, and to give it
something of a connected arrangement, 1 have
thrown it altogether into the form of an inquiry
* p. 296. f p. 3 0 5 .
Digitized by G.ooole
lix
into the Method, Objects and Result of an
cient and modern Philosophy. And, as in this
work I have endeavoured to bring forward several
historical and theological documents, which had,
in a manner, retired from public view, I trust
that such an inquiry will not be deemed alto
gether misplaced, and that I shall be excused in
an attempt to draw from the safne store-house of
antiquity some speculations, which have been too
generally slighted or overlooked by the Meta
physician and the Philosopher, but which 1 be
lieve may tend to the advancement of science,
even amid the brilliant discoveries of modern
times.
With respect to the fragments themselves, the
classical reader will find, I fear, but poor amuse
ment in perusing a half barbarous dialect, replete
with errors and inconsistencies: to the student of
divinity, however, they may not be altogether
unacceptable or devoid of interest: and to the
inquirer after ancient history and mythology, it
must be useful to have collected into one small
volume, the scattered relics for which he must
otherwise search so widely.
fe
e
db
yGoogle
Digitized by G o o g l e
THE
THEOLOGY OF THE PHCENICIANS;
FROM
SANCHONIATHO.
B
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
S A N C H O N I A T H O .
THE COSMOGONY.
\
T H N t u t %Xuv d p x y t wto-
t l b f t a i d ep a rial
rtfVjxati^ii, }
/ irttn
jv dtpcf
%t*paiavf, n al %/u>< SoXepcv
lpcj3u$f(’ t a v t a i t ilvai
a ittip a , tea! iid xoXuv a lu va
f
t
i
) f x tly titp a f. *Ot€ i t ,
(ifrrjtriy') ypaaSlri t l m tZpta t S t
W av &p%uv, tut) i y i t f to trrly-
upatrif, vi wXox)jiw/ioj ivXrfilri
zi£ro(‘ aStrj Se ap%i|u tta tu t
d z d v ta v ’ a v to six lylva a n t
tvjv a i roE u tla iv ' xai lx TTjf
wtoE <rvfj.zAtn.rit toE m tv p ia -
tO ( ly tv tto MUt. t«Eto tW(
tpaa-iv ZXt/y, si Sc i8aT»8oi/f
pu£e«{ crrjrpiy, Kai lx ra v trif
l y i t t t o zacrtj. ffzopd xtlirtv f,
rial ytvta-if t u t %\uv.
H e supposes that the beginning of all
things was a dark and condensedwindy
air,or a breeze ofthick air anda Chaos
turbid and black as Erebus : and that
these were unbounded, and for a long
series of ages destitute of form. But
when this wind became enamoured of
its own first principles (the Chaos),
and an intimate union took place, that
connexion was called Pothos:*and it
was the beginning of the creation of
all things. And it (the Chaos) -f- knew
not its own production; but from its
embrace with the wind was generated
Mot; which some callllus (Mud), but
others the putrefaction of a watery
mixture. And from this sprung all
the seed of the creation, and the gene
ration of the universe.
* This union, among the Heathens, and particularly among the Phoenicians,
was symbolized by an Egg enfolded by a Serpent, which d isjunctively represented
the Chaos and the Ether, but, when united, the hermaphroditic first principle of
the Universe Cupid or Pothos.
t “ Wind knew not, &c.”. Vig. Col. Orel. Cumb. &c.
Digitized by
4 8ANCH0NIATH0.
tH» it rivalsa oCk e^owa
cucrSritny, i£ uy fyewto £3a
yoepa, xai IxXtf&i)Z&x^aoTjfuy,
tout* ftrriy ovpavov xaTo'irrai.
xai iveirX<£a-&i| Spu>loi( eJoE*
ojpjfta-n,xol l£iXapapi Mmt,
JjXm{ t« xai <r«Xijuj,i r a i p t f
Te xai atrrpa p ty d X a .
Kai roE dipop i i a v y i -
rarrop, 8<a nvpbxriy xai T?j{
SraXaaoTji"
J
" xai yojp
iy iy tr o m eil/uura xai y*(fnj,
xai oipayitm vtdroiy pU yurrai
xaratpopa) xai X<JTeip. Kai
iv ttiil tifxpt^ri xai row i2/ov
ToVou iieypplaSr/ diet Trjv
toB ijXloutrupu'riy, xai xdxra
ovyijmjo-e naKiv ly a lp i ti£8e
ToIaSe, xai aW^afay, /3/W-
v r a l t t dTereXe<rdni<ray xai
d trrp a xa 1, xai itpop Toy
v d ra y o y rS y fipoyrSy itpoyty-
papt.u{ya J yocpa %3a iyp-pyo-
pyefy, x a i xpop riy fo o t ivrvpT),
Kail lyJyr^Tj ey T€ yrj xai
HaXdtftrri §ai;ty xai Srj\u.
(Touroip i$ jf o a M p a vyyp a -
<fxvp ivu p tp a X tyu v') Tau&*
(vpi^Hrj ly Taj xoaf*3yoyip
yeypapepeiya Taavrou xai
to7( ixdtou vtzofAyrjjxaTiVf ex
■
r
earoyfioapLuv xai rexpjpiav,
Sy i& paxty airrov rj Sidyoia,
x a i tvp t, xai tyuy iipaTurey.
And there were certain animals
without sensation, from which intelli
gent animals were produced, andthese
were called Zophasemin, that is, the
overseers of the heavens; and they
were formed in the shape of an egg:
and from Mot shone forth the sun,
and the moon, the less and the greater
stars.
And when the air began to send
forth light, by its fiery influence on
the sea and earth, winds were pro
duced, and clouds, and very great de
fluxions and torrents of the heavenly
waters. Andwhen theywere thussepa
rated, and carried out of their proper
places by the heat of the sun, and all
met again in the air, and were dashed
against each other, thunder and light
nings were the result: and at the
sound of the thunder, the before-
mentioned intelligent animals were
aroused, and startled by the noise,
and moved upon the earth and in the
sea, male and female. (After this our
author proceeds to say:) These things
were found written in the Cosmogony
of Taautus, and in his commentaries,
andwere drawn from his observations
and the natural signs which by his
penetration he perceived and disco
vered, and with which he has enlight
ened us.
* tt/oC
, omitted in Ed. Col. f ^aXdmjf.Or.
X wpoytyfor/t&oy. Or. § SaXdrnf. Or.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
SANCHONIATHO. O
r o ir o tf oyoptara r a y
avffiwv clituv, Norov xai Bo-
pcovx a i ruyA oi ccut Ix tA e y e i.)
’AXV ovraiye itpurot oupic-
putrav, x*l -rijf y y s /3 \a tr r y -
p ta r a , x a i Steovi; ivopurav,
x a i otpotrcx'iyovy r a v r a , atp’
u y a ir o ! r e hteylyovro, xai
01 empoeyoi, x a i oi ttpo a ir a y
ira yrc f, x a i %oa{ xai I v A t l -
<rei( Im lo v y ' (xai eriA c yc i’
AoTai 8* %aay a l Inlyoiai ryj(
vpotrxvyya‘e a () ofjxiai r a y
a d rS y dtr& eyrfp x a i ipvxfif
im
Xfxtf..)
(Afterwards, declaring the names
of the winds Notus, Boreas, and the
rest, he makes this epilogue:)—But
these first men consecrated the pro
ductions of the earth, and judged them
gods, and worshipped those things,
upon which they themselves lived,
and all their posterity, and all before
them; to these they made libations
and sacrifices. (Then he proceeds:—
Such were the devices of their wor
ship in accordance with the imbecility
and narrowness of their souls.)—
Euseb. Prcep. Evan. lib. I. c. 10.
THE GENERATIONS.
ETra (<prla'i) yeyevrja^Sai lx
rov KoXir/a ctveuov, x a i y v -
y a tx l( a v ro v B a a v ,* rovro St
y v x r a Ipporjvaleti, A lu y a x a i
IIp a rtly way Ssyrjrohf a vh p a f,
oSru xaAovpt.cyov(, cipeTy he
roy A lw v a j" rr/y a m r a y
hcvhpuy rpoeprjy'
Ex ro rh u y ro v( ycvopicyovi;
x'A rftrytzi rtvo( xai T everyf
xai olx^aai rrjy t o ivixrjv.
a iy ju iy he y ty o /u vu v , r a f
X£<ipa< opeyeiy «<{ oipayovf
rtphf roy JjXiov. rovroy y d p ,
Of the wind Colpias, and his wife
Baau, which is interpreted Night,
were begotten two mortal men, Aion
and Protogonus so called: and Ason
discovered food from trees.
The immediate descendants of these
were called Genus and Genea, and
they dwelt in Phoenicia: and when
therewere great droughts theystretch
ed forth their hands to heaven towards
the Sun ; for him they supposed to be
• Bochart proposes IkfavT.
f tV Altova. Climb.—Philo and Orellius prefer Faber proposes also
to read A iw a 7rpu>r6yovov above.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
c SANCHONIATHO.
(<f»l<ri,) Ceov iyipifyy poovov
oupayou xilptm, BeeXcran^x
xaXooxTcf, o (tret zapii <f>of-
xift xtlpiog olpavov, Zeti( 5e
‘
zap’ ‘’EXXijot.
*Ef5]{ (^hjotx) r«»ou{*
Aimxo; xai IlfwToyovot) lyexij-
&5}xai aJ&i{ iraiSaj &xijtoI{,
o!f filial mhiufta. $Zf xai
IKp xai $Xo'{, oJto/, (iprja’iy,)
ix zapaTpiflyf £u
'X
m
x eSpox
irfy, xai ttjx j^iJotx illia^ay.
Tlovf 8e fyeywjirav ootoi
pccyeSci tc xai Cirfpoxjj xpeia—
aoxa{" "j" »x r a oxo'imt* to?{
offaix ever(Hi;, m
xIxpdtTiia-ay,
£'( aurSx x/.Tj&^xai to
KoJcraiox,J xai tox A/)3axox
xai tox ’AxTiXi/3axox, xai to
BpaHti.
’Ex toutmx, (<£ij<7ix,) £yex-
r^Hijiray Myjpipovpwf xai o§
‘Tipovptiyio;. a no f/.v}T€puy 8f,
(tpijaiy,) iyjirijjAli^oy t u v
TOTe lyvxaixMX ava/8ojx piuryo-
pUvay o!{ ax (yroyoiey. Eito£,
(<
pr;<
7i,) tox ''Tipovp&ytov o/x?j-
aaiTiijoox, xaXt/j3a; Tt litiymj-
trai &Ttlxahapuev xai Hpiluyxai
zanvpuv. oraoracrai Si
tox aSoX^wx Ooctmox, o{(7xe7njx
Tj3 <7MaaTi irpurcf ix ifppui-
tmx mx “
a%v<T( avKhafitTy ||
God, the only lord of heaven, calling
him Beelsamin, which in the Phoeni
cian dialect signifies Lord of Heaven,
but among the Greeks is equivalent
to Zeus.
Afterwards by Genus the son of
Aion and Protogonus were begotten
mortal children, whose names were
Phos, Pur, and Phlox. These found
out the method of producing fire by
rubbing pieces of wood against each
other, andtaught men the use thereof.
These begat sons of vast bulk and
height, whose names were conferred
upon the mountains which they occu
pied : thus from them Cassius, and
Libanus, and Antilibanus, and Brathu
received their names.
Memrumus and Hypsuranius were
the issue of these men by connexion
with their mothers; the women of
those times, without shame, having in
tercourse with any men whom they
might chance to meet. Hypsuranius
inhabited Tyre : and he invented huts
constructed of reeds and rushes, and
the papyrus. And he fell into enmity
with his brother Usous, who was the
inventorofclothing for the body which
he made ofthe skins ofthe wild beasts
which he could catch. And when
* ytyovg 1
1of the race of .Eon, 8ec.” Or. f xpitrroyag. Or.
J Kaeto*. Plin. Jabl. Or. &c. § & xa). St. || cvW aGw . Or.
Digitized by Google
SANCHONIATHO. 7
Sriflw flpt' 'PaySatuy Se
yoopttyay ouSpvy xai %ytv~
wrruV) vapatpiPeyta ta ly
t 5 Tupp S(ySpa 7ivp &y&f/ai,
xai t^ k avTodi C\ijy x aratp-
Xtfai. SeySpou te XaPhpotyoy
toy O“o-£04vxai inoxX aidray-
xa,* npuTty toAffltrcu (If
SaKourtrayJ" taSyyai. &yic-
pStai &
£ 8ifo (mjXaf xvp/ tc
xai TtyevpiaTt, vial nponannj-
trai, a u a Je ttrevBoiv a ita if
tf «y r[ypeve Sypluv. toituy
8t TeXttrrtjtravTaiy, rot( £»o-
Xfufy^eytat (rpyjtt) ptzpBovf
auro'f itfuepScai, xai ra{
(mjXaf ■npoav.vyiiy, xai t « / -
toi{ ioptio( ayeiv xot ttof.
Xpiyoif Si Crrepoy xoXXo7;
ax« -nj( 'Tipovpaylov ytvtoif
yfytaSat 'Aypta xai ‘AXiea,
Tot( aXie/a; xai ayp*< tipt-
ta(, wv xXij&Sjvai iypevraf
xai d\i(7(.
’E f <Jv ynla^au Sue iS t\-
<pov(, triSrjpov ' (ip(taf, xai
toi^tov Ipyao-laf' Sy Sd-
Ttpoy toy Xpvaup \{yov( do-xrj-
cai, xai incpSics xai pyayttlaf'
('you H tovtoy thy "thpat-
ctiv, tvptTy Se xai a ytu t-
Tpov, xai S(Xtap, xai hppu&y,
xai <rx(Bla.y orpStiy te xav-
T»y iy^puvoiy ocuvaat’ 8io
there were violent storms of rain and
wind, the trees about Tyre being rub
bed against each other, took fire, and
all the forest in the neighbourhood
was consumed. And Usous having
taken a tree, and broken offitsboughs,
was the first who dared to venture on
the sea. And he consecrated two pil
lars to Fire and Wind, and worship
ped them, and poured out upon them
the blood of the wild beasts he took
in hunting: andwhen these men were
dead, those that remained consecrated
to them rods, and worshipped the pil
lars, and held anniversary feasts in
honour of them.
And in times long subsequent to
these; wereborn of the raceofHypsu-
ranius, Agreus and Halieus, the inven
tors of the arts of hpnting and fishing,
from whom huntsmen and fishermen
derive their names. '
Of these werebegotten two brothers
who discovered iron, and the forging
thereof. One of these called Chrysor,
who is the same with Hephaestus,
exercisedhimselfinwords, andcharms
and divinations; and he invented the
hook, and the bait, and the fishing-
line, and boats of a light construction ;
and he was the first of all men that
sailed. Wherefore he was worshipped
* atToxXaSiuovra. Or. f >«A«t t «v. Or.
Digitized by
8 SA N C 1I0N IA T H 0.
icai <
&
< &
eoy xirrlv y tta Sia- after hie death as a God, under the
varoy hrefiaaSivpav' xaXcia-- name of Diamichius. And it is said
Slat Sc aiJToy xal Ataft/- that his brothers invented the art of
j^ioy.* 01 Sc toi/( atiXtjxivf building walls with bricks.
avtov toiyfivp tpatrlv iittKnjaai
€X v\!v9uv.
M tra ta v ta lx tov ycnvf Afterwards, of this race were born
todtov yevetrSat veavfcap Svo, two youths, one of whom was called
xaXetaSat Sc adruv tlv y.lt Technites, and the other was called
Texwrijy,ray Sc TvjivovAircix- Geinus Autochthon. These discovered
Suva. Outoi lvtvvti<rav tu the method of mingling stubble with
tyj( ir/u'y&
ovavyytyvdeiv the loam of bricks, and of baking them
(popvtov xat t $ fjtJa avtaq -j- in the sun ; they were also the inven-
ttpoabeiv' aXka. xat trrcyaf tors of tiling.
c£cfyoy.
’Am tadtuv lyivovto ettpot, By these were begotten others, of
uv o ylv'Aypof Ixake'no, I whom one was named Agrus, the other
Sc ’Aypcnsripos ij 'Aypitvn, oI Agrouerus or Agrotes, of whom in
xat licitov eltai ydha ai€da- Phoenicia there was a statue held in
yiov, xoii vcuv fyiyotpopovyevn the highest veneration, and a temple
lv <Pomxji4 Tiapd Sc Bw/SX/- drawn by yokes of oxen : and at By-
oi{J lloupitup SrtSv i yiyur- blus he is called, by way of eminence,
to{ hvoya^etou’ cVeyorjtray Sc the greatest of the Gods. These ad-
ovtot avAcif npamSevat toi( ded to the houses, courts and porticos
olxotf, xa) Tiptfii'ha.ia xat and crypts > husbandmen, and such
o-wijXoua* ix todtuv iyp ita t as hunt with dogs, derive their origin
xal xwrjyoi. OJtci Sc ’AXtj- from these: they are called also Aletae,
ta t xat Tttdve; xaXovvtat. and Titans.
’A m todtuv yevetrSiai'Ayv- From these were descended Amy-
yoy xat Mdyov, o! xatcBetlav nus and Magus, who taught men to
xtiyaf xal mt'yva^. construct villages and tend flocks.
’Ako todtuv ytvctSiai Mi- By these men were begotten Misor
<rup xai SvSvx, tovtemv and Sydyc, that is, Well-freed and
* A/a /a u X U io v . Mont. f aurowf. Or.
X Bi€\ioif. Vig. Col. St.
b
y
Google
SANCHONIATHO. 9
tuXvroy x a i 8ivaioy' O
L
T
O
i ttjv
to3 ixAoj xfi< riv elpoy.
'A m M tirup T d a v ro p , o;
tijv t£» irpuTuy oroi^e/uv
ypaipqy’ %v A l y ilm u t fjily
B a u p * ’AAcfaySptTp Be Q avSl,
EXAijvep 8f 'Epfupy Ix a k e a a y '
l x 8e toE 2v8Ex, Aiotrxovpot
$ K dSeipoi ?
) K opvtfayrec rj
E a/A oSppxef. O lr o i, (c^njir*,)
TtpuToi nXoiov evpoy.
’E x roiSruy y e y iv a a iy e re -
poi, ot xai P vra ya p tvpoy, x a i
Tr/r ray B a xeru v ia a iv x a i
IxtpBap.
K a r a rorirovp y b m a l rip
’EA»Ev xaXovpieyop "Txf/iarof,
xai SijAeia X tyofterp B rjp m d '
oi x a i x a rtp x m v vcpi BEjSacv.
’Ef a y y e y v a ra i ’E n iyeio f tj
AC r iy fia v , oy Cirrepoy i x& Xerav
O ipayoy• up die’ a ir o v x a i TO
!mep ti/xap <rroi%eioy, hi iicep-
poXrjv toI xaKkovp oyoput^eiy
ovpayov. T tv y a ra i i t roilrip
aitX ipri l x r a y npoeipni/xeyay,
rt x a i IxAi]&t) r^, xai i t a to
Ya./,}.op dir’ aCry\p, (tfnjtriy,)
IxaX etray ripy o u a y ia c y yp y.
‘O 8« r o ir u y ica ryp o
"Tipurrop fc <ro/*j9oX^{ Ssrjptuy
reX ew p tra p lu p itp a S y , $ x a i
Xoap x a i Overlap oi ica~Bep
h t M c a y .
Just: and they found out the use of
salt.
FromMisor descendedTaautus, who
invented the writing of the first let
ters : him theEgyptians called Thoor,
the Alexandrians Thoyth, and the
Greeks Hermes. But from Sydyc
descended the Dioscuri, or Cabiri, or
Corybantes, or Samothraces: these
(he says) first built a ship complete.
From these descended others, who
were the discoverers of medicinal
herbs, and of the cure of poisons and
of charms^______ ________________
Contemporary with these was one
Elioun, called Hypsistus, (the most
high); and his wife named Beruth,
and they dwelt about Byblus.
By these was begotten Epigeus or
Autochthon, whom they afterwards
called Ouranus (Heaven) ; so that
from him that element, which is over
us, by reason of its excellent beauty
is named heaven: and he had a sister
of the same parents, and she was
called Ge (Earth), and by reason of
her beauty the earth was called by the
same name.
Hypsistus, the father of these,
having been killed in a conflict with
wild beasts, was consecrated, and his
children offered libations and sacri
fices unto him.
t k o i* * '-
Ca c/v^
* btvw fr Mont. Or.
c
itized by Google
10 SANCHONIATHO.
napaXafiuv Si « OCpavof But Ouranus, succeeding to the
rrjy rov ttarplf dp%
7jV
, a y e r a t kingdom of his father, contracted a
itpii ytifu y r ip aSeX^Jjv r5jv> marriage with his sister Ge, and had
xal miuTai if atrrj( waitap by her four sons, Ilus who is called
S' “
IXov tov xat Kpoyoy, x a t Cronus, andBetylus, andDagon, which 0<y *
-
B
i-rvX
ov, x a t A a yd y, o( i m signifies Siton (Bread-corn,) and
2/tmv, xat"KaXarra. Atlas.
Kal if aX
X
uv Si y a p eru y But by other wives Ouranus had
« O ipayit xoX
X
ijv t a y f y e - ‘much issue ; at which Ge, being vexed
yedy' 810 xal •yaAeyia.ly'v'ra. and jealous of Ouranus, reproached
y
) r?, rov Oipayoy fyXoTu- him so that they parted from each
w
oSo-a iw.ruC,ey, tS
? xal Sta- other: nevertheless Ouranus returned
a-njytxi A
xX
ijX
o’
v. ‘O Si to her, again by force whenever he
Oipayoe dvoxoprj<rci( a irnjf, thought proper, and having laid with
//.era {Ha<, ore x«l ijS
ot/X
<
T
o her, again departed : he attempted
b » d y , xal irX
tjo-id%uy ai-rjj also to kill the children whom he had
irotX
tv am
jX
X
tzTTrro, i™#/- by her; but Ge often defended her-
pa Si xal T
ou
< if avjyjf self with the assistance of auxiliary
xatSa< Stat/t&
tfpetv. ryjy Si powers,
rijv d)J.vye<rdat *oX
X
o£xt{,
<jvf/.i/.ax!ay avrij tn/XXefa-
p tn iv '
Ei? &
y&
p
a
< Si xpoeX
&
ojvi But when Cronus arrived at man’s
Kpeyof ’Eppiij t S TpuTfuy'urt^ estate, acting by the advice and with
a
rv
/tt/S
o
tfX
pxat jSoij&
f xfdptje- the assistance of Hermes Trismegis-
»o;
• (oJto? ydp J
jv a tro v tus, who was his secretary, he opposed
ypa/jt/AaTeif,') tov varepa himself to his father Ouranus, that he
Oipayoy dpulyerai, ziiw pZ y might avenge the indignities which
T
7j pL
yjT
p
it had been offered to his mother.
Kpoyov Si ytvovTat xatStf, And to Cronus were born children,
n^cre^ovtj xat ’a&ijh*. 'H Persephone and Athena; the former
H
*
ivoiy upoiTrj otdpSeyof ere- of whom died a virgin; but, by the
XcvTa’ t ^ ( Si ’A
&
ip'akyyup.-Q advice of Athena andHermes, Cronus
xat 'Epixov xateaxevoure made a scimitar and a spear of iron.
Kpoyof ix triSypov dpmjy xat Then Hermes addressed the allies of
Sopv‘ J r a o 'Eppiyji toT< too Cronus with magic words,andwrought
Digitized by C r O O Q l e
SANCHONIATHO. 11
Kfin v trvfifu iyp u ; Aoyou;
puvytiap ZiaAix^ik
innoiifTi to»j * tu n ' Oipa-
« » t i**/> t v<r?< -
xau ovru Kpinf t}y Ovpavb*
wcAtptq trv/AfiaAav rrjf dptfjp
ijkcure, xoj t!jv fiourtAdcu
8k8«J«to. 8* t j
/K$X5 xai i] evtpcurrof rot
OCparm adyxontf iyxilpuev
daa, yp bt&llvaiy i Kpo>c(
fif ydpoy T f AaySvi' t/x t«
Si x a f a Totfry, oxarcc yaur-
Tpcf t ( Oipoaou &{*p(>, o
xal exdkfvc Ati/xaptw.
'E rl Toifouf o K^o»o( Tri^sf
wfpifidMji t j fai/rcS c.xifa’ct,
xai updry^y xoAtv xtj$«i rt/y
<xi 4oix/xi)( BvfiAoy. M«Tii
javra Toy aZeAtpi* rrn i&ior
"ArAavra imwviprap i Kpixif,
p e r d t«E 'E p ya v el(
Pa&Q( yyjp ijxflcLhw xa.fi-
yfmt.
KarA fovfnv Tgy J jjpo-
»y oJ axo t5 x Atoa’iuJptiy
oypZtap x*i %Xo7a n v d i r r e f ,
e x A e w a y . x a i ix p u p iy fe ; §
x a ra to Kwroiw ofO( yaoy
airroSli c u p tip u ra y.
Oi St <n/fi^tajjot vIAoii too
Kpanv ’EAufifA || tVtxXrj&i)-
o-ay, i{ ay K^ew'oi, oJtoi
^cray oi XfyofMvoi dxl^Kpoyov.
in them a keen desire to make war
against Ouranus in behalf of Ge. And
Cronus having thus overcome Ouranus
inbattle, drove him fromhis kingdom,
and succeeded, him in the imperial
power. In the battle was taken awell-
beloved concubine ofOuranuswho was
pregnant; and Cronus bestowed her
in marriage upon Dagon. and, whilst
she was with him, she was delivered
of the child which she had conceived
by Ouranus, and called his name De-
marous.
After these events Cronus sur
rounded his habitation with a wall,
and founded Byblus, tbe first city of
Phoenicia. Afterwards Cronus having
conceived a suspicion of his own bro
ther Atlas, by the advice of Hermes,
threw him into a deep cavern in the
earth, and buried him.
At this time the descendants of the
Dioscuri, having built some light and
other more complete ships, put to sea;
and being cast away over against
Mount Cassius, there consecrated a
temple.
But the auxiliaries of Ilus, who is
Cronus, werecalled Eloekn, as it were,
the allies of Cronus ; being so called
after Cronus. And Cronus, having a
* Trjg. Or. f Ovpaooo. Vig. Marg. Svpayov. Col. Marg.
X t o D
t o * yjptvov. Or. § tH xpiQ tm g. Or. || ’EAo«/i. Or. for). St.
Digitized by G o O g l e
12 SANCHOSIATHO.
K
fimf li ally f%ay 2a8i8oy, son called Sadidus, dispatched him
Silf a i r l y ailr/py Siexpvraro, with his own sword, because he held
8
*
’ im vota< aircm ( r x r p u t , him in suspicion, and with his own
xal rrjf ifaxWi a&royfip too hand deprived his child of life. And
iraiSo? yevi/xeyof, (rreptia-ey. in like manner he cut off the head of
'C h ra iiru f xal S v y a r p o f R la ; his own daughter, so that all the gods
vrjy xtfa tiq y itr e re p e v . &
( were astonished at the disposition of
•ndvrai; iteirX rjxSat* rr/y Cronus.
Kpiyov yyuprjy.
Xpiyov 8 1 tipoioyrof Oipay'm; But in process of time, whilst
iy (pvyri Tvyx<iyavt S v y a r tp a Ouranus was still in banishment, he
a vrou ndfoeyoy 'S .a ta p tt\y sent his daughter Astarte, being a
p t S ' (rep a y a frn js a ltktp w y virgin, with two other of her sisters,
S
o'o, 'Pe'aj xal A
iiw
m
){, 8
o
'a
^
i Rhea and Dione, to cut off Cronus by
roy K
jjo
V
o
you/tXeTy uT tanepter treachery ; but Cronus took the dam-
a< xal (X a y o Kpoyo; tavpi- sels, and married them notwithstand-
8/a{ y a p t r a f ib eX tp a ; oJo-aj ing they were his own sisters. When
(rroiyaaro. T
yob( 8e e O ip a - Ouranus understood this, he sent
yo{ e m trr p a re v d x a r i. too Eimarmene and Hora with other
Kpoyov E lp a p p e n iy xal ',(ip a y auxiliaries to make war against Cro-
p e & (repay <rvppa%
av. xal nus : but Cronus gained the affections
Tarfraf (£oiKeiu<rdpeyo( o of these also, and detained them with
Kpoyi( trap’ ( a m a -ta re a xe y . himself. Moreover, the god Ouranus
"En 8«, <fnj<riy, (treyititre &
co< devised Bsetulia, contriving stones that
Ov p a ylf B a u n lX ta , yJSrevf moved as having life.
ipWxtv<W
X
a
n
\<
T
<
ip
e
w
>
<
.
Kpovy 8i (ycyoyrc a m And by Astarte Cronus had seven
‘A a -rdpriK Svyar(pe( (trrd. daughters called Titanides, or Arte-
Titavibes ti ’Aprepidef' xal mides; by Rhea also he had seven
orofAiy r a a i r S y ly m n a i i t r l sons, the youngest of whom was con*
“P e a t iraides (tr r d , av o secrated from his birth ; also by Dione
yeuraTO
f a p a r tj yeyerrei he had daughters; and by Astarte
irptepd^ti’ xal im Aidyrp again he had two other sons, Pothos
^ijAfioi' xal d m ’A r r a p r y p and Eros.
oraAiy ccfipeyef 8vo, IloSo? xal
“E p u f.
• IxxaxXvx^oa. St.
Digitized by L.ooQle
SANCHONIATHO. 13
‘0 8« Aaryuy ixaS
tj tlpt And Dagon, after he had found out / jj
oT
tov xa) apoTpov, &
X
ij&
ij bread-corn, and the plough, was called
Z d ( 'ApoTpui;. Zeus Arotrius.
SuSt/xp Se t AtyopUvf To Sydyc, who was called the just,
itxaItp, pla t Sv T itavtluv one of the Titanides bare Asclepius:
<™
»fX
SoE
o-ay m f ‘A
tncX
rj- and to Cronus there were bom also in
vtiv. 'Eyfw^&
ijo-ov Se xa) Peraea three sons, Cronus bearing the
h U eptitp* Kpovtf) Tpfif same name with his father, and Zeus
xaiitft Kpin; iptunput Belus, and Apollo.
miTp!, x a ) Zei« BrjAo?, x a )
’A
iroX
X
aiy.
Kara m!rov( yivoncu Contemporary with these were Pon-
IIwTot T vtpay xa) Ni)- tus, and Typhon, and Nereus the
pdi(, ncaTyp rioV
rou
* axl SI father of Pontus: from Pontus de-
tm
3nlrrov ylvtrat SiMv. ij scended Sidon, who by the excellence
xaSf vgtpfitiKijv ti*po»la( of her singing first invented the hymns
•xpun) v/xnty tflSvjs tlpt, xa) of odes or praises : and Poseidon.
Hoa’ttlS v ,
T fi St A ijfta p iv m ylttrat But to Deroarous was born Meli-
M tA /x a p S o f o x a ) 'Hfax&fc. cartlius, who is also called Heracles.
Eit<z v a X iv O ipavl< xoX e- Ouranus then made war against
put IIovtj), xa) ixo<rri( A)j- Pontus, but afterwards relinquishing
piapovm x p u n lS tr e u ’ tx titr t •the attack he attached himself to De-
re liitn tp o Ariptapovc, rpi- marous, when Demarous invaded
■nwnat rt f aMv o nivro<- Pontus : but Pontus put him to flight,
0it Arjptapovf tpvyijf Swlav and Demarous vowed a sacrifice for
ijufaro. his escape.
“
'Ere* SiT piaxm rrf S
antptp In the thirty-second year of his
rijf ia v T o v xparvj<rfoo( x a ! power and reign, Ilus, who is Cronus,
paertXtlat, o "lX
o«to u t’ irr'tv having laid an ambuscade for his
1 Kpivot Oipow'ov riv v a r lp a father Ouranus in a certain place si-
Xoxfaai b t»1 pu<
r«- tuated in the middle of the earth, when
ytltp, xa) XafSuv vxa%tipifv he had got him into his hands dis-
ixrtpjjrtt avTot z a aJioTa membered him over against the foun-
* ITapa/f. Vig. Col. f 81. Or.
Digitized by Google
14 SANCHONIATHO.
(T
iW
)eyvf mfyvv te xa) hotor
pwv. €>
%
* i^tepu^rj i Oipa~
Wf, xa* am
jpT
/ix&
ii atrov rl
rvtvfta,xa) A
«f<rTa£ry afro?
T
3 alp*a t£v a*8o«jy elf raf
mfyaf xa* r£» «
O
T
a
p
*
*
i>
' tA
S8ara, xa* p
trjcp
* ®
*f-
xmai T
axmflev.
(ndX
iy 8e o avyyfxvp&s
toi/toij eirupepei ptt& frepa
A
ey
w
K
.) ’A
o
~
rd
p
T
)j8f ^ p
*
u
-
ylm), xa* Zfif A
t)ptapo5<,
xa* vA
8«8o$ fiaoiKtif &
«5»
Ifiao-tKevov T
?
j{ X^fa( K
p
oxoi/
yyvfxp' *
1 2* ’AffrApri) ive-
&
>
jx
*tj /S/jt xeefxzXrj fiaiTi-
X
fi'a< xapA
njpxoy xetpaXepi
Tarlpov' irepwxrTevra 8e t*
)*
*
o
*
’xa*p«M
jt', f5fxv iepone-nj
atnipcL,* cvxa)A
yrA
sp«x>j Iv
T
ilp
q
*tS
Jay/« y
^
tr^
jdupiepuae.
T
>
jy Sf ’Airr&prtp ta&iixef
n
jv'AtppMnp) eUeu Xeyovr*.
Ka* I Kpinf 8c xcpiiiuy
T
ijyolxovfieyfv tj ’A&
ijy£ t»)
cavroS d u y a rp } 8/S*r* r^f
’Attix?)? T
tjy fH
aaiKetaw.
A
oJjuai 8c yfvopteysv xa*<^o-
paf, T
oy eourrau putnyeyij viay
Kpoyof Oipayf xarp) oA
*-
xapxo*, xa* Ta a)8o*a xrp*-
Ttpoxra*, ratal xoiijva* xa*
*»{ dpt’ a8ry rvpypiaxmf
Mmant/rpniraf' xa* pw
r’ of
tains and rivers. There Ouranus was
consecrated, and his spirit was sepa
rated, and the blood of his parts
flowed into the fountains and the
waters of the rivers; and the place,
which was the scene of this transac
tion, is shewed even to this day.
(Then our historian, after Jome
other things, goes on thus:) But
Astarte called the greatest, and De-
marous named Zeus, and Adodus who
is entitled the king of gods, reigned
over the country by the consent of
Cronus: and Astarte put upon her
head, as the mark of her sovereignty,
a bull's head: and travellingabout the
habitable world, she found a star fall
ing through the air, which she took
up, and consecrated in the holy island
of Tyre: and the Phoenicians say that
Astarte is the same as Aphrodite.
Moreover, Cronus visiting the dif
ferent regions ofhabitable world, gave
to his daughter Athena the kingdom
of Attica : and when there happened
a plague with a great mortality, Cro
nus offered up his only begotten son
as a sacrifice to his father Ouranus,
and circumcised himself, and compel
led his allies to do the same : and not
long afterwards he consecrated after
his death another of his sons, called
* O
tffT
iffalt, Bocfa.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
SANCHONIATHO. 15
iroXS ertpor (tim v v d iia avo
*Pia s , onpia'^ifievoy Motft
dvoSavoera. difuepot’ Q d ta -
rov Sc toEtov xcu nXotTrufa
omxc; ovo/xa^outn.
Krxi fVi tcEtoj; 1 Kpovo;
BtfjSXw fcc» t))v ioXiv ScjT*
BooXtiSi, tj xai &iun)
iliu m , Hripyrov Sc {IotrciSoivi
xal KajStjpoi; ’
A y p ir a if re
xa l aXicEa-iv, oi xai IIo'vtov
Xc(payee el( rr,» Byjpvr^v
tufttippHTav.
IIpo Sc t q v t u v &co{ TcSav-
to; p^ojo-efyeevo; rb Oipae'ae,
tS v &euv expeif Kpoeov re x a l
Aay& eof, tea1tSk Xotvuy 8<c-
n fa u cey toS; JcpoE;ru e a rei-
X«»w yp.paxri\pa$. tvernijiTe
Sc xai Tfj Kpoyp vapdry\pux
[3amKelaf, t/xpuzra re ra a p a
ex r£» iputperSluy xai tmv
imierSlm peepuv itSt Sc yrvxfl
pedovra, x a i tv ) ru e ufuuv
vrep d re r a a p a ’ 8t
«
o /«y i;
Irrdpeeva, tile Sc <J; tyci/xc/a,
T1 Sc a’
t
/
|
xjSoXoy j
f
y
, ivetiri
K pw tf xM fiifxeeof cjSXcvc, xal
iyprpyopuf ix u p a r a ’ xa l tv )
ru e vrepuy ip a lu f, i n d e a -
*aidpeeee( Ivra ro xa) h erd-
ptevof deevadero, Toe; Sc
XoivoTf SeoT{ ido Ixdarcp
vrepupuxra tv ) ru e Spuie, u (
Muth, whom he had by Rhea; this
(Muth) the Phoenicians esteem the
same as Death and Pluto.
After these things, Cronus gave the
city of Byblus to the goddess Baaltis,
which is Dione, and Berytus to Posei
don, and to the Caberi who were hus
bandmen and fishermen: and they
consecrated the remains of Pontus at
Berytus.
But before these things the god
Taautus, having pourtrayed Ouranus,
represented also the countenances of
the gods Cronus, and Dagon, and the
sacred characters ofthe elements. He
contrived also for Cronus the ensign
of his royal power, having four eyes
in the parts before and in the parts
behind, two of them closing as in
sleep; and upon the shoulders four
wings, two in the act of flying, and
two reposing as at rest. And the
symbol was, thatCronuswhilsthe slept
was watching, and reposed whilst he
was awake. And in like manner with
respect to the wings, that he was fly
ing whilst he rested, yet rested whilst
he flew. But for the other gods there
were two wings only to each upon his
shoulders, to intimate that they flew
under the controul of Cronus; and
* t ij Or.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
16 SANCHONIATHO.
o t i iij a v y lm a r r o r f Kpoyp'
xa! a i n S n d k ty i n i Tyjf
xf<pa\rjf nrepic itlo, ex in i
t o v ryfw.cwxvtar;l vm , xai
ex in I t5j< ahr^rja-euf.
’EX&«3y 8e o K piyof elf
Notou x “Payi a n o u ra v T ry
AlyunToy liarne 5 e 2 Taai/rp,
jSam'AooycClrip y e r fT a i.
T a v r a ie (ip^trl') etfUTOi
n A v ru y hnejunma.Tla-a.vT') o!
iir r a S v ie n n a iie f K a fifp o i,
x a l iyiacif a ir S v aieX tpef
’AirxXTjiii;, i f a v r o if iv tT e l-
X aro S e lf T a a v r o f.
T a v r a n a v r a o S a filv v o f
n a if n p S ro f r u n a*’ ai£vo;
yey o v iru v ^oiyiw uy U p/yptirnif
ciKkriy<tpri<raf r e if r e (pvainoif
xa< yiocfAiKolf n a fte a iy a y a -
l* (£af n a p e iu n e r o if opyiu<rt
n a l r e h tT u y n a r d p ^ o w i npo-
< fnjraif' oi ie ray rvtpov av£ety
In n a v r if iniyoovrref, r c if
a v r u y SiaSo^oif napeiexrav
xai to»{ in e ia a n r o if' uy e lf
rjy xalvI<nfi;, t»v rpiaiy y p zu .-
jia r u y eip errif, i i e h p i f Xva
tou npurov lACToyopaa&errof
4>o!viiaf.
there were also two wings upon the
head, the one as a symbol of the
intellectual part, the mind, and the
other for the senses.
And Cronus visiting the country of
the south, gave all Egypt to the god
Taautus, that it might be his king
dom.
These things, says he, the Caberi,
the seven sons of Sydyc, and their
eighth brother Asclepius, first of all
set down in the records in obedience
to the commands of the god Taautus.
All these things the son ofThabion,
the first Hierophant of all among the
Phoenicians, allegorized and mixed up
with the occurrences and accidents of
nature and the world, and delivered
to the priests and prophets, the super
intendents of the mysteries: and they,
perceiving the rage for these allego
ries increase, delivered them to their
successors, and to foreigners:ofwhom
one was Isiris, the inventor of the
three letters, the brother of Chna who
is called the first Phoenician.—Euseb.
Prcep. Evan. lib. I. c. 10.
OF THE MYSTICAL SACRIFICE OF THE PHOENICIANS.
“E&
oj roif naXatoif ly It was the custom among the an-
raif fieyaXaif ovpujxipaift o v cients, in times of great calamity, in
Digitized by Google
SANCHONIATHO. 17
ayt* aayruy order to prevent the ruinofall, for the
^ 0^,™ Yyam
)/<«ovT5vzix- rulers of the city or nation to sacrifice
y u y ,r o l( tepanvyrap J
jniXeup to the avenging deities, the most be-
y & yovp,tip <r<payyi> ix M o y a t loved of their children as the price of
Xvrpoy ro~; npuipoip balpeoo-t. redemption : they who were devoted
xarta-^w
TTovTo B
e of iiiofie- for this purpose were offered mysti-
yoi paxrrntSp. Kporop totniy, cally. For Cronus, whom the Phce-
oy ol Qotyixff T
a-paijX* srjxxr- nicians call II, and who after his death
ayojxuova-i, jScurtXei/uv -njf was deified and instated in the planet
X&pap, x a i tm p o v potri rtpi which bears his name, when king,
roS pim TeX
eim
jy e»{ riy tow had by a nymph ofthe country called
Kpoyov d tn tp a teaSstepo&elp, Anobret an only son, who on that ac-
i( htiyfliplaf Htlpupiif ’A»»- count is styled Ieoud, for so the Phce-
fip e r f \ e y o v & y exay nicians still call an only son : and
ptonyeirn, a
>ita rovro ’Ieoii8 when great dangers from war beset
itt&Mw, tou puiyoymdf oSroip the land he adorned the altar, and in
ert teal mv xaXovpUvov napit vested this son with the emblems of
rot{ o/wft, kivBiW in no- royalty, and sacrificed him.—Euteb.
Xeputv peeyltrruy xaT(t\ri<p4roy Prcep. Evan. lib. I. C. 10.— lib. IV.
rijy yfitpay, ^aeriXitef tunrpetj- C. 17.
ra p oypjpean roy vlov, fiuputy
re teaToatotvccadpuyop tta rt-
Sfvrty.
OF THE SERPENT.
TV f***oly rov bpdteoyrop Taautus first attributed something
<pij<rty nod r S v ty tu y a M p of the divinenature to the serpent and
iZeSteiacrfy o T d a v ro p , teal the serpent tribe; in which he was
peer' a in o y a Z S ip <bdytteU T t followed by the Phoenicians and Egyp-
teal A Jyvtrriot. nytvpeaTitev- tians. For this animal was esteemed
TaTov y a p r l tp o v n d r ta y by him to be the most inspirited of
tSv ip n tT u y teou nvpStep i n ’ all the reptiles, and of a fiery nature;
• IX or IAuf. Maraham. Bry. Fab.—Israel Boch. Seal. f ’AtoSpir Or.
D
Digitized by f ^ i O O Q l e
18 8ANCH0NIATH0.
atrta> Tta'(iV£s-tf ra p ' o* xa l inasmuch as it exhibits an incredible
ti\n arow
'pjSX
tjT
o* Sia toS celerity, moving by its spirit without
m
eii/ftarof raptorial, %
apii either hands, or feet, or any of those
mSSr re xal %apay, $ aA
A
ou external members, by which other
tSv tZ vS ja , S» t i t animals effect their motion. And in
Xurii tpa tin xirtpnn micT- its progress it assumes a variety of
t a t ' xa l roix/Xuv trffl/xdtuy forms, moving in a spiral course, and
nSrovf a m tth e i, x a l x a r a darting forward with whatever degree
t i p n>ptlax IXixwiSti? of swiftness it pleases. It is moreover
tit< ip /tin ,n l< p .l,- fk v te ta i long-lived, and has the quality not
xa‘ roXvxptyUitatw only of putting off its old age, and as-
U itrc it o3 im k» tip ixSvo~ suming a second youth, but of receiv-
ptoov to yt[ponK
af^fiv, iwA ing at the same time an augmentation
x a l aS(ij<ny irtlex« rS !a i pu t- of its size and strength. And when it
Qua riipuxe, x a l irtiliai ti has fulfilled ttie appointed measure of
apia-pottoy futpov sX
rjp^erj), its existence, it consumes itself; as
t'n iavtiy avookurutat, Taautus has laid down in the sacred
iv tan Upat( ipu>
tu( aitl; a books; upon whichaccount this animal
Tdavtoi xatctaie ypcufxu^' is introduced in the sacred rites and
8
<
1 xa l iv Upon tovto tl mysteries.—Euseb, Prop. Evan. lib. I.
tfioy xou lx /xwrnjpjoif <
rvfi- c. 10.
rapftkrprrat.
* JSt.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
FRAGMENTS
CHALDiEAN HISTORY,
FROM
BEROSSUS, ABYDENUS,
AND
MEGASTHENES.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
1/
BEROSSUS:
FROM ALEXANDER POLYHISTOR.
OF THE COSMOGONY AND DELUGE.
B H P O S 2 0 2 8e iy Tyj itpuTQ
r&v Baj3vX«yiax£y tprjtri ye-
yeV&cu ju*y avt'ov xari
’
AXef®y8p«y tov $iX/*iroo Tr/y
TjXixtay. ivaypcupict Sc iroX-
X£v & BajSuX£n (pv\d<T<7 t<
7 -
Scu f ttr i. sroXXijf Itri/xcXc/a;
m ti tr £ y ntmi imip pivpts£8»v
if* nfpttx<i<S<ra.( xp£»w’ % t-
pir f f i v 8e &yaypcup&( •
)
■
Irropiaf m p t n Z ovpatoS xa»
SctXcLrmjt xai vpurcytylat
xai fia a tX tw y xai Tuy xaT*
a ir o lf u p d ia jy.
Kai upSToy pity tJjvBa/Su-
\uyluy J yijy ^hjiti xel<r8rai
f
T
t
iToC Tlypi&0( xai EiKppaTov
vvTapuu pUirrjy. tprStty aorijy
•zvpovf iy p l m t xai xp iS rif
xai «5
^xiy§ xai cnjo-a/xcy |
|
xai t&{ A> to~( eXeai ifmo/xt-
Berossus, in the first book of his
history of Babylonia, informs us that
'he lived in the age of Alexander the
son of Philip. And he mentions that
there were written accounts, preserved
at Babylon with the greatest care,
comprehending a period of above fif
teen myriads of years : and that these
writings contained histories of the
heaven and of the sea; of the birth
of mankind; and of the kings, and of
the memorable actions which they had
achieved.
And in the first place he describes
Babylonia as a country situated be
tween the Tigris and the Euphrates :
that it abounded with wheat, and bar
ley, and ocrus, and sesame ; and that
in the lakes were produced the roots
called gongse, which are fit for food,
* iixinr/m Go.—Ducentis et quindecim. Eu. Ar.
f Go. m. inserts xa). J Bafii/Xuix/uty Go.
§ <
b
c( n >Vulg.—Eu. Ar. inserts, lentem, pulse. || vtam pn Go.
22 BER0SSU 8.
you pl$a< lir& U irS la ii* tyo-
fia$t<T§at a v r d ( y ir y y a f
l<ri&wafi(7ti 5e t d ( p/ija?
t a v ta p x p iS a i’
f . y lv e a S a i 5e
tpctyixa; xai pxijXa x a i t i l
Xowra ixpo&pva xa i fy S v a f
xai Jfyfa yj-p'Totia. r e xai
XtfwaTa. eJyai l i ai-rijf t i .
fun xaTa Tijy ’AfajSiav pw'pij
dnUpa t
€ xai a xa p va , t d
Se dytixetfxeya t y 'kpaftiq.
opetvd t e xai «{<£opa.j-
’Ey St t j BajSvXuyi iroXt
*X?&0
{ iifopum eiv yeyea fra i
AXXct&ySy x a to ix i\r& y tu y ttjv
XaXSauzy* IJrjy St auToSf
d t a x t u p ucraep roc &)jp/a.
’Ey St t f tp & ty lyiavTtji
(payrjyai i x tyjp ipv&pap &a-
X d o r y f x a t d Toy o/MipovyTa
Tooroy r5j BajSuXuy/p iJSoy
ouppeyey J oyoptati ’(ldyyTjy,
x a S ro f xai ’AroXXoSapof la -
tiprjtre, to ptXy oX
oy ffujaa
c%oy 1
1 ix3fi/o<, wro S
t Tojy
Xf<pa\7]y oiapatetfnnujiay aX-
Xijy yutpaXrjy i m x d t u tyjp
toC lyfivop xaptzXrjf, xai
iroSat o/Ju>£e>( iyS p u K o v, is a -
pouKttpvxotap Si ix T^5oipap
rov ix&uo{- tTyju Si airra
(poiyTjy dy& pvirov, tjjv Si tixo'ya
aSrow tri xai ySy iioupvXda—
c e tS r a i.
and in respect to nutriment similar to
barley. That there were also palm
trees and apples, and a variety of
fruits ; fish also and birds, both those
which are merely of flight, and those
which frequent the lakes. He adds,
that those parts of the country which
bordered upon Arabia, were without
water, and barren; but that the parts
which lay on the other side were both
hilly and fertile.^
At Babylon there was (in these
times) a great resort of people of
various nations, who inhabited Chal-
daea, and lived in a lawless manner
like the beasts of the field.
In the first year there appeared,
from that part of the Erythraean sea
which borders upon Babylonia, an
animal destitute§ of reason, by name
Oannes, whose whole body (according
to the account of Apollodorus) was
that of a fish; that under the fish’s
head he had another head, with feet
also below, similar to those of a man,
subjoined to the fish’s tail. His voice
too, and language, was articulate and
human; and a representation of him
is preserved even to this day.
• Sc.— o
». Vulg. f Go.—a<poga Vulg. J aggi* ov Is. Voss.
§ Endowed with Bry.—Terribilem feram Eu. Ar. || A.—Eu.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
BEROSSUS. 23
T
ov-ro if, <
pqa'h to l^Scy, This Being was accustomed to pass
T
rjy fuv fatpan hcnplfiuy the day amongmen; but took no food
jM Ta r a y ay% pm toy, oH e- at that season ; and he gave them an
p !a v * Tpotpqy orpoa’iptpopuyoy' insight into letters and sciences, and
vapaSiSoyiu re roT( ay%pvmi( arts of every kind. He taught them
ypapipulTuy x«l jua&^araiy to construct cities, to found temples,
xal rex/iS y •navrohavay f a - to compile laws, and explained to them
neiplay, xal mX
cdvavyoixi<r- the principles of geometrical know-
/m v( f xal tepuy lhpilo-ei(, x a l ledge. He made them distinguish the
yopew fhrrffrprtic, x a l y e a - seeds of the earth, and shewed them
fu r p la v h ih a a x e u , xal <nip - how to collect the fruits; in short, he
/uara xal x a p v u y a v y a y u y fa instructed them in every thing which
iv o itn u n iy a i, xal trwo'Xai; could tend to soften manners and
•sdura zd npo( ijfUptxny humanize their lives. From that time, -fa
iy rp u n n a j9wuj irafaSiSo'yat nothing material has been added by
to T
f ay% p u m i(. aito So to o way of improvement t o his instruct
Xpoyov txetyov oiSev a\Xo ore- tions. And when the sun had set, this
pitnrov eipeSrjvai, roS i f Being Oannes, retired again into the
fa to v itSyounof to tfioy to v - sea, and passed the night in the deep;
to »
1'Clino
jy SSyai niXiy elf for he was amphibious. After this
•njy SiiXaa-<ray, x a l Tat; n ix - there appeared other animals like
Tatb t$ ottXiyei § iianatr- Oannes, of which Berossus proposes
&
ai* elvai y a p axa'o || a/M pI- to give an account when he comes to
j9<oy. ta r e pay he tpatrjyai the history of the kings. Moreover
xal erepa tjZ a t/M ta Toirtp,^f Oannes wrote concerning the genera-
n tp i uy iy a y Toy fSaaiK eav tion of mankind; and of their civil
iy a y p a tp y tpytri h rfh ia eiy. polity ; and the following is the pur-
T
O
V he 'C la n y y ittp l y e y ta f. port of what he said :
xal aoXm/at yp& tyai xal
irapaSowai roySc T oy Xoyoy
T
oi
't a y S p iiroi<-
rW
<r&
a<<
p
y
<
r', yjpoyoy, iy “ There was a time in which there
y to v a y Txorot xal Chop existed nothing but darkness and an
elyai, x«l iv to isto i; %aa abyss of waters, wherein resided most
* /Arfiefita.* Go. f Go. m.— •ovvaixifffiohs Go.— m yoxifpoug A.
J Shy Go.—t o u Shu Sc. § Goar substitutes ix tt
|| obItIs Go. *| toC
tojv Go.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
24 B E R O S S U S .
TtpaTubii, xai tlSupv(7(* r&f hideous beings, which were produced
ISea* cxorra f X,uvyover<r$’
a<. of a two-fold principle. There ap-
&&p6mv( yap tmTepm/f peared men, some of whom were fur-
ytwrfiwa.i, tylovf Sc xai tc- nished with two wings, others with
rpairrepovt xai Impotramvc,' four, and with two faces. They had
xai <rSpui ph iyjnnaf *x» one body but two heads: the one that
xttpdKb( Sc Svc, avbpt'tav rt of a man, the other of a woman : and
xai ywaixc/ay, xai atSoid likewise in their several organs both
re ii<
r<
ra,% oipptv xai S^Xo’ male and female. Other human figures
xai iTtpovf &vSptiitov< roif were to be seen with the legs and
[M
u alyav (txc'X
ij xai tcepara horns of goats : some had horses’feet
c%«vTa(, Tolif Sc limitroSaj, while others united the hind quarters
toii< Si ra iitlau piy § [upy of a horse with the body of a man,
"may, ra Si ZpnpaaSity ay- resembling in shape the hippocen-
Srpanay, ot( Imextyravpcvf taurs. Bulls likewise were bred there
rr/y ISc'ax elxai. ^aoyoyi/Srijyai with the heads of men ;^and dogs with
Sc xai Taiipnf ayUpmcay xc- fourfold bodies, terminated in their
<pa\a( Uxorras xai / xu'va? extremities with the tails of fishes:
TerpaTupLaTovt, oipaf /%- horses also with the heads of dogs:
&t!o;|| cx t ay omo-Sey p-cpay (men too and other animals, with the
cxoyTatjxaiJmovf xwoxc^a- heads and bodies of horses and the
X
oti{, (xai &y%puinvf, | xai tails of fishes. In short, there were
irtpa !J5a xc^aXa; pky xai creatures in which were combined the
a-apiara "may cxoxra^f limbs of every species of animals. In
oipaf Sc lx^uuy. xai aXXa addition to these, fishes, reptiles, ser-
8c %aa irayroSairuy Syplay pents, with other monstrous animals,
pupipaf txoma. itpof Sc Toil- which assumed each other’s shape and
toif Ix^ilaf xai ipvtra xai countenance. Of all which were pre-
o<puf xai aXXa ifia mXc/oxa served delineations in the temple of
&ao/xatrraxaiTaptjXXayf/cva Belus at Babylon.
Taf mf/tif iXXijXox cxoxra' ay
x a i T a{ tU o ya f cx t S t o u
BijXoc y a p i n a x t i r d a i .
• ifooewr Rich.—8
1
gutTi Sc.— alrofoiic Mac. f Go.
J Si t t x , Go— duas quoque natures. Eu. Ar.
§ xa) tocjulv lirtaa Go. m.
|| Eu.—fySSotf Vulg. tyom a; A. •• i t i x i m i Go.
Digitized by Google
BEROSSUS. 2.5
'Apxt»* Be tou'tsw navTuv T h e person, who presided over
yw a'xa y orofia 'O/upma’-f them , was a w om an nam ed O m o ro ca;
tlrai i f touto J XaXBaKrrl w hich in th e Chaldaean language is
fio & a \kr§ , 'EXXijhotj T h a la tth ; § in G reek T halassa, the
8e || sea ; b u t w hich m ight equally be in-
Xixo-o-®, Kara Be hrm/^pey terp reted the M oon. A ll things being
o-eXijwj. oSruf B
e t 5 » oXsw in this situation, B elus cam e, and cu t
oweo-nixoTsjj) faanfXSoyra the w om an a su n d e r: and o f one h a lf
B5jXo* tr^iVai tJ)* yw aixa o f her he form ed the earth, and o f the
//em;*, tuzi r i peii fjpiav a i- o th er h a lf the h eav e n s; and at the
■njt noLyaai yrjv, to Bi aXXo sam e tim e destroyed th e anim als
yj/Aiav oipaxw, *al ra Iv w ithin her.** A ll this (he says) w as
airy Qua dipavta-ai. dXXtj- an allegorical description o f n atu re.
yoptxuf Be <pyai touto itapv- F o r, the w hole universe consisting o f
a-wXoyya-Sai.-f-f iypou yap m oisture, an d anim als being conti-
o»to{ tou travTo; xa< t,uuv h nually g en erated therein, [The deity
ain$ ytyfvvyufvuv,frc,ZTw^ above-m entioned took o ff his ow n
to* &eo* cbpfXtr* tij* lav- h e a d : upon w hich the o th er gods
tou §§ xe<£aX>j*, m ixed th e blood, as it gushed out,
cupa DU tou« aXXouf &eouf w ith the earth ; and from thence w ere
<
pvpao-ai ry yy, xai BiairXa- form ed m en. O n this account it is
<rai t m>
( ayStpuTtmf' 8»’ o th at th ey are rational, and p artak e o f
yotpuif t t flyai xa) <ppmry<reuy divine k n o w led g e.^ T h is B elus, by
&£u»{ /octcx«*7 |to* 8t BijXo*, w hom they signify Jup iter,* * * divided
o* Ala fteo-o* th e darkness, an d separated the
Te/xoWa tB <txo'to< %upia<u H eavens from the E a rth , and reduced
yyv xal oupa»o* dtc' aXXijXa*, th e universe to o rd er. B u t the ani-
xal hata£ai to* xio-pus -ta m als, no t being able to b ear the p re-
8t Xfia oix Ivfyxirra t*j* tou valence o f light, died. B elus upon
* Go. t O/i0fS x x Go.—Ofi{{xa Sc.—Marcaja Eu. Ar.
I t oB
t w.Go. § Thalaatha Eu. Ar.
|| Sc.—fiiSif/xytiCiTcu Vulg. *] Eus. Ar. omits.
*• “ In the abyss.” Bry.—“ Which had composed her empire.” Fab.
—quse in ipsa erant Eu. Ar.
f t A.—Sc.— fJih <pvffio\oyua^ou Go. toBtw* Sc.
§§ ouTijf Go. m. || || cu/iai Go. 8
ia Go.— Sc.
Dis Bry.—Dis or Pluto Fab.—Dios Eu. Ar.
E
Digitized by Google
26 BEROSSUS.
<patr0
$ hvvafjuv (pBctpyjva».
ih orra &€ r!» BijXoy x& pav
tpypuy « i ! xapxapopoy K fX fl-
a cu iy) r a y S c iy rrjy xotpaXrjv
ouptXoyri ka ,v zw t S a m p -
p va rn a lp ta n (pvpaaat Tijy
yrjy xou S g n K d tr a i iv B p u -
vovq ka ) Slripla T a ivyd/M ya.
Toy &epa <piptiv’ aroT tX cV ai
8c Toy ByjXoy x a ! a<rrpa xa.)
JjXiov x a ) rTtX^yrjy x a ) TOVf
v i y r t v h a y y r a q . (r a v r d . <
pr:-
<ny "j" o H oXviaTup ’A X cfay-
Zpoq Toy B ypaaaoy iy r y
xpuTQ (p d r x a v .% )
’K» 8c ry ticvrepp Tovq
ie x a 1 3 a a i\et( r a y XaX8a/a>y
x a ) Toy xpiyoy aye j9«riX eia{
a v rw v , adpoiiq ixaT oy clxotny,
yro i h a y juufia8a{ T c o a a p a -
xo v ra Tpdtq xa.) hdo jjiX ia S a j,
cuq t o v xaTa.x\v<rpu>v,§ Xe-
yei o avroq ‘AX e^avipoq
iiq Swo Tyjq ypatpyq r a y X a X -
Sa/aiy aZ.Jiq v a p a x a T tu y ana
ToZ 11 iv i.t o o j3 a a i\tu q 'A p b d -
ro v ioc) Toy itx a r o y Xeyopoeyoy
ta p 'a vro T q H'xrovStpoy ovaaq’
’A pSdrov 8e TcXcvr>ja-avTo{^[
Toy vloy a ir o v H taovdpoy**
fS a a iA tv a a i adpooq o xT a xa l-
8 cx a‘ t o ij t o v fity a v
this, seeing a vast space unoccupied,
though by nature fruitful, commanded
one of the gods to take off his head,
and to mix the blood with the earth ;
and from thence to form other men
and animals, which should be capable
of bearing the air.* Belus formed
also the stars, and the sun, and the
moon, and the five planets. (Such,
according to Polyhistor Alexander, is
the account which Berossus gives in
his first book.)
HjlaJLlu hi tfa
C c C
(In the second book was contained
the history of the ten kings of the
Chaldaeans, and the periods of the
continuance of each reign, which con
sisted collectively of an hundred and
twenty sari, or four hundred and
thirty-two thousand years: reaching
to the time of the Deluge. For Alex
ander, enumerating the kings from
the writings of-the Chaldasans, after
the ninth Ardates, proceeds to the
tenth, who is called by them Xisuthrus,
in this manner:)
After the death of Ardates, his son
Xisuthrus reigned eighteen sari. In
his time happened a great Deluge ;
the history of which is thus described.
• L ig h t B ry. f G o. om . J fa r x n . G o.— Sc.
§ ayatpipsi G o. in. || G o. om . toO O tiarte defuncto, E u . A r.
** Itfow Spoy. Hi/couSpoy. alafopov. Sc. f f ra) Jr) Go. m .
Digitized by Google
BBROSSUS. 27
xiTaxXWjUov •ytwa’
&ai. iya-
yrypdtj&at * Si to* A»yov
rjy Kpjyox a ir f x a ri
rir Cxvov hi& riyra <pdvai
porpif Cuualm^ vt/urni xa)
Stxd-rg rdi( Aydpdvtvf M
xaraxiwrpuu Stouf&apyata-
&<u.J xtMvTat obi Sul
ypafjjuhm, admin dp%&(
xa) pUiTa xa) TtXtvrdf opv-
Eayra & SstTrai b aiXti
riklov 2txxdp*t<, |H xa) »«
mfyipAfttny cxdtpnp iftfZqvai
purd t£v avyytymy xai dva-
yxaltn <ptkm' iy&ta&ai Si
PpApiata xai xcuarz, tfx-
fiaXtiy Si xai Xfia «ti|«k
xai rrrpdaoSa, xa) adrra
(irptnuxAusmi %>jtly,*m Ipu-
TupK
nt WT
.C*X
«7; tydvaif
xphf rcl( &««/{• tt^dpLtyov
dySpdxoip aya$A ytyiaSat.
rot S’ ti xapaxoitrama v&v-
viflrja-arTa <rxd*pop r l pit
pnjxof rraSttm tityrt, ri Si
aXdrop rtaZum Sit' r i St
rnnayfitYTa xddna <
rvr8itr-
dcu, xai ywaixa xai rbaa
xai toif dyayxalmf <pl\ov<
iufiifidaau
r tnpoiym Si rov xatar
The Deity, Cronus, appeared to him
in a vision, and warned him that upon
the fifteenth day of the month Daesius
there would be a flood, by which man
kind would be destroyed. He there
fore enjoined him to write a history
of the beginning, procedure, and con
clusion of all things; and to bury it
in the city of the Sun at Sippara; and
to build a vessel, and take with him
into it his friends and relations; and
to convey on board every thing neces
sary to sustain life, together with all
the different animals, both birds and
quadrupeds, and trust himself fear
lessly to the deep. Having asked
the Deity, whither he was to sail ? he
was answered,^ “ To the Gods
upon which he offered up a prayer
for the good of mankind. He then
obeyed the divine admonition: and
built a vessel five stadia in length, and
two in breadth. Into this he put
every thing which he had prepared ;
and last of all conveyed into it his
wife, his children, and his friends.
After the flood had been upon the
* Go. f bauala Go.—Aaff/ov m.
X <p3ccfjjcri<r5ai Go. { tiXirkg ipi^eara Go.
|| Sc —herxApoie Dind.—Siparis Eu. Ar.
f Roganti autem quo navigandum ? Responsum; ad Deos, orandi
causa, ut bona hominibus eveniant. Eu. Ar.
•* Vulg.
y
Google
28 B E R O S S U S .
xXut/aou xal eiStiiif Xyfeaytof earth, and was in time abated, Xisu-
tS » * opyeav Tiva ™ B itov- thrus sent out birds from the ves-
Spoy afpUvai. t a 8« oi tpo- sel; which, not finding any food, nor
tp7]ii ehpovta ovt c thnov onov any place whereupon they might rest
xaSiVai ndXiv tk%e7y ti< to their feet, returned to him again.
irXo'ov. Toy hi Uitovdrpoy After an interval of some days, he
naXiy pxetii Tiva; ti/xepaf sent them forth a second time; and
cupietai t d opvea' ta Z ta they now returned with their feet
hi ordXiy elf t\v vdCv ikhiTy tinged with mud. He made a trial a
rovf irohaf mmiXwpifyovf third time with these birds ; but they
exfivta. t o he tp ito t oupe- returned to him no more: from whence
S eyta oix e ti tXSfeit elf to •he judged that the surface of the
irXoiov. Toy he SiW&poy earth had appeared above the waters.
iyyorjSrjyai <yrjy dyanetpr/yeyai, He therefore made an opening in the
hteXovta te t u t tov nXaiov vessel, and upon looking out found
pcupSy fiepo( t i tea) ih itta that it was stranded upon the side of
otpoa’oyeTXay to tXoiov opei some mountain; upon which he im-
tjv* c
’xjSrjyai puetai -rijc yvyai- mediately quitted it with his wife, his
xoj xai trjf Sruyattpof tux) daughter, and the pilot. Xisuthrus
ToS HvfiepyrjTov npomvyrjaciv- then paid his adoration to the earth :
too Ttjv ytjy xai fSo/xot ihpv- and having constructed an altar, of-
adfxeyov xai S va id tra n a fered sacrifices to the gods, and, with
to?{ &
fo~{ yeyeaSai /x e ta tu y those who had come out of the vessel
exjSavrojy tov itXolov oupeunj. with him, disappeared.
Toi? 8e im/xelyayra^ lv They, who remained within, find-
t $ nXoitp /xri euncopevo/xetuy ing that their companions did not re-
t'ut nep) toy Hlao\&poy in- turn, quitted the vessel with many
jSdvraj’f' Xflteiy ahtoy in) lamentations, and called continually
oyo/xatof f}ouyta.i;.% thy 8e on the name of Xisuthrus. Him they
Uiuou&poy ahtoy p it ahtdi( saw no more; but they could distin-
o£x ?T
» icpStjyai, (puyyy Se «x guish his voice in the air, and could
tov aepof yeyeo-Sai xeXfu'ou- hear him admonish them to pay due
ta v u( hecv ahtov< eltai regard to religion; and likewise in-
* Tin iptioiy ti«« Sc. f i» $ittxi . . . E/Vou3po» Sc. om in Ch. Eli.
J boiuytoi Go.
Digitized by Google
B E R O S S U S .
StcatfitTp xai nap' airly*
8
ii Tiptitrefitiay noptdta&ai
pato. nZy StZy o
ito
J
tr
c
v
T
a
.
•njf S
i airrjp T
i/«jf xai Trp
ywaTxa aimv xai &
o
-
yaripa. xa't tov xvfttprqrriy
l*tnt<rxqxtvai. tint re auroip
on tXtutrovrai nakiy tl( Ba-
fivXZva, xai ip tlftaprai av-
n
o
T
plx Snrrtapuv H
ytA
optiyotp
rrt ypiifi.jij7.nn. S
ia
S
o
E
y
a
iT
o
if
iySpunoip, xai Ini onov tlaiy
riyfipa 'Appttvlap itml. netif
S
iaxjtiaaynap rat/T
aj"Mitral
it noipStotf xai ntpifJ no-
ptvSr,vat tip BapvAZya.
Ttu S
ixAotivnoijjovxana-
xXAtynop§ iy T
j 'Aputylpp
tmpipop ti || into'{Kopxv-
pattry Ipttri rtjp ’Appeyiap
Ztaptvttv, xai Ttyac, ia'o ntru
nX
cilov xoptCpty &
no£vovrap
a<rtpaAnoy,xpaaSat S
iadrrp
nplp to
i>
( AnnptyxiaafUtvp.
lA&
oynapAy Todrovp tip Ba-
f2vAZyani,nt lx 'ZiTt&puy**
ypdppianaff &yopi(ai xai
noAtip toX
A
iif xnXpynapJJ
xaiitfi iytlpvaapiyovpittiAiy
Inixrlaat -r
ij»BafivAZya.
formed them that it was upon account
of his piety that he was translated to
live with the gods; that his wife and
daughter, and the pilot, had obtained
the same honour. To this he added,
that they should return to Babylonia;
and, as it was ordained, search for the
writings at Sippara, which they were jf-
tQjnake known to all mankind.: more
over that the place, wherein they then
were, was the land of Armenia. The
rest having heard these words, offered
sacrifices to the gods; and taking
a circuit, journeyed towards Baby
lonia.
The vessel being thus stranded in
Armenia, some part of it yet remains
in the Corcyraean ^ mountains of Ar
menia ; and the people scrape off the
bitumen, with which it had been out
wardly coated, and make use of it by
way of an alexipharmic and amulet.
And when they returned to Babylon,
and had found the writings at Sippara,
they built cities, and erected temples:
and Babylon was thus inhabited again.
—Syncel. 'Chron. 28.—Euseb. Chron.
5 . 8.
• octnujy Go. f ctJt ol Go.
I G o .— p e d ib u s E u . A r .— Q y . if, trifo u ,, o r x«J>ix&i. E d r o f
Eu. Ar.
§ S c .— xaraxA rfiltnot G o .— x a r a x A a ? d » T o f G o . m .
|| rlecuto v » G o .— t» . . . . iy S c .— t i i> A .
I f o r C o r d y d a n F a b .— C o r d u a r u m m o n t ib u s E u . A r .
• * ’
iiaitlptuy D in . f f V o lu m e n E u . A r . S c . oxorifovTap G o .
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
BEROSSUS:
FROM APOLLODORUS.
OF THE CHALDjEAN KINGS.
TATTA f»ir i Bi^ji»<rm( This is the history which Berossus
Iw rip^n, TfSfrv yrn & ou has transmitted, to us. He tells us
1
9auri)Ja * 'AXapoy ix BajSu- that the first king was Alorus of Ba- l)
X
£»o{ XaX8aioy"f" jSaoaXeS- bylon, a Chaldaean: he reigned ten
<rm 8i a-dpmp itn a , xai xat- sari: and afterwards .Alaparus. and 2,
Sx&js ’AXoirafo»J xal 'A py- Amelon who came from Pantibiblon : ?
X
aw
<»§ ro» ix. Ilamj9ij3W'|| then Ammenon the Chaldaean, in t> V
ora ’Am a tm a t»» XaX- whose time appeared the Musarus
8aTon, t y o3 <pr)m tpatijyai Oannes the Annedotus from the Ery-
rov luxrafnv to* thrsean sea. (But Alexander Poly-
’Ayvrfarrov, h ty t ip& pa? histor anticipating the event, has said
(Sxf/i ’AXefa>S/iof •Kfokapan that he appeared in the first year;
efyipce <pa>ijrai r f nptny but Apollodorus says that it was
tro" dvToi $f p tra iraptnif after forty sari; Abydenus, however,
Tf<r<ra.pi.yu>rtam o 8e ’A^eSij- makes the s£GQ|jd Annedotus appear
««1f tw** 8efatpov ’Awij- after twenty-six sari.) Then suc-
iurov iMTa irdpms oxo<ny?f-) ceeded Megalarus from the city of ^
ora MeyaXapoy-f-j- 8x Ilay- Pantihihlon ; and he reigned eighteen
Ti^ijSXoiywo'Xtwj, jSowiXfSo-ai sari: and after him Daonus the shep- ^ ^
8’ aiKoy <rdpov< oxTuxa/8rxa* herd from Pantibiblon reigned ten
• &a<ri\(wv Go. f XaKioUait Go. % ’AXAawafOt Go.
§ Almelon. Eu. Ar. |] n«wri)S//SXa;v A. If 'A& vhvlf Vulg.
** Go. Amegalarus.
Digitized by Google
BEROSSUS. 31
xai /« T a t o v t q v A d u y o v iroi-
i x T l a y r i f i i f i h u y f i a a t -
X e v a -a t r d p o v f h i x a . x a ra
TO
UTO
V ita K iv tpjanqva,i i x
Tyji; i p v S p u f ' A m y tiu r o v r e r a p -
t o v t»jv a v r i^ v r o T f a v u e y p y ia .
81dxSeeriv xatl rr,v 'lyp va i; %p o f
a v ^ p a i r o v f /*i'£iv. eTra a p £ a t*
E ut8tjpay.o»~^~ ix T l a v T t f i i f i -
Auv, xatl fia tr iX e C u ra i a ’d p o v f
b x T a x a t i e x a . eni r o v r o v tp rj-
a i y a W o v tpcunfrv c u e x T ijf
e p v S p a f S a X d o ’O")jf o /a o io v
x a r c t t>jv l% «5vof n p o f a v S p u -
nroy pujiv, y ovo/xa ’OSaxaiv.J
T o v r o v i 8e <pr[<Ti T c d v r a s r a t
in to ’C ld v y o v x e t p a \ a i u 8 Z { pij-
S e y r a x atT iz /x«po< f( r y y /jtr a -
o f ta i. itepl t o v t o v ’A/Si/Sjjvoj
oW fy fiv e * , tl-ra ap £ a i 'A p u p t-
xpiyby X a X ia io y ex A a p d y -
X«v' fineriX eva ai 8e nirrciy
oyiooy a’dpovf 8fy.ee. e lr n
£ p £ a t ‘ClTidpTrjy X a \8 a a e y
i x A apdr/X fiiv, fiaa-iA evrou
8ff <rdpovsq. ‘O r id p r o v 8e re -
Xeirryjo-ayrof ro» u/ov avrou
BJtrovSfpoy fia m h ev era i irdpcvf
o xT arxnliexa. i n i t o v t o v roy
p teyn v xardxX va-fxiy tpyeri y e -
y ein jo fta u . i f y iy e a fta i opuZ
•x d v ra i fioL<riht1<; ie x a , erdpovf
i i ix a r b v encscri.
s a r i; in his time (he says) appeared
again from the Erythraean sea a fourth
Annedotus, having the same form
with those above, the shape o f a fish
blended with that o f a man. Then
reigned Euedorachus from Pantibi- ^
blon, for the term o f eighteen sa ri;
in his days there appeared another
personage from the Erythraean sea
like the former, having the same com
plicated form between a fish and a
m an, whose name was Odacon. (All
these, says Apollodorus, related par
ticularly and circumstantially what
ever Oannes had informed them o f :
concerning these Abydenus has made
no m ention.) Then reigned Amemp-
sinus, a Chaldaean from Laranchae: i/tU a[j
and he being the eighth in order
reigned ten sari. Then reigned
O tiartes, a Chaldaean, from Laranchae; )ua 'A/>ic
and he reigned eight sari. And upon )'•
the death o f Otiartes, his son Xisu-
thrus reigned eighteen sari: in his
tim e happened the great deluge. So
that the sum o f all the kings is ten;
and the term which they collectively
reigned an hundred _and twenty-sari. * V52, c c ©
— Syncel. Chron. 39.— Euseb. Chron.
5. S fcAa
, i t ^c
J 2*
• V
f? ?
~^rf%ccc.
* Go. f Edoranchus Eu. Ar.— Go.
J 6$& xu>v Go.-—& A o e y c v f Fab. Go. m.
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
BEROSSUS:
FROM ABYDENUS.
OF THE CHALDjEAN KINGS AND THE DELUGE.
XAAAAION /*cv rrjf ataptiK
rripi TGtravTa.
Baa-iXeutrai Sc n ji X^Paf
irpSmv Xeyerai* "Khupm, riy
Sc iicep covrou Xoyov SiaSovyai
i n puy t o v KcS"j" iroi/xiya o
Sncotitlfcai. fiatnXtvtrai
Sc trdpovf Sexa. <rdpo( Sc
iv n y iia xim a xai zpitr/l~kiix.
cTea, yrjpof Sc i£axona,
<rdtnro( Sc iErjxovra-
M cra Sc tgZtgv 'AXdvapoy
ap£at trdpovf rpeif, jxe^f ovj
’Aft/XXa^o; ix mXeu( [la m -
(3 !8 \iof § ifiaalXevtre trapovt;
ly • l<p' <
Z Sci/TCfiov ’AvmjSm-
roy\| Tijv Sahaatray avaSvvat
wapairXijcnov 'Cldyyr;^ tijv
iSeav vjpiiictiiMva. pitS? oy
So much concerning the wisdom of
the Chaldaeans.
It is said that the first king of the
country was Alorus, and that he gave (I)'(l)
out a report that God had appointed
him to be the Shepherd of the people:
he reigned ten sari: now a sarus is
esteemed to be three thousand six
hundred years ; a neros six hundred;
and a sossus sixty.
After him Alaparus reigned three 2,
sari: to him succeeded Amillarus 3 &)
from the city of Pantibiblon, who
reigned thirteen sari; in his time
came up from the sea a second An-
nedotus, a semi-daemon very similar
in his form to Oannes : after Amilla
rus reigned Anmienon_ twelve sari, V
• Sc. X
iytuy A.—Xiytl Go.—\iyit Go. m.
f Sc. /a^v toDX
iS
j( Go. J Go.
§ n«vT/)S//3X
ou Sc.—ITatm
/9/£X
<off A. || ?Am
jftoro» Sc.
% 'aduvn* Go.
Digitized by Google
B E R O S S U S . 33
’Apt/M vav lx n a v zifitS K a v
qp£e* <rapov( i f f . /«&” on
M eya X a p o f j* l x IlaynjSi-
(SX
w
x yp5( a dpcvf ix z m u u -
8exa" t l r a A a u ( *otji«)y Ac
T la vzifilfiK av Ifla a lK c v ee a d -
pouj 8exa, Itf>
’ (Z S' hupvti(%
yijy l x haK a< rm j( a v & v a a v,
T \ I / ^ n | /
u v z a o v tjta z a z a u z a , Eoe-
8»xcf, ’E yiiS ya p u f, ’EveiSfSov-
Xof,§ ’Av*ipuvxo(. I x i Sc z tv
p ieza z c a iz a EoeSapeoXM'J|
’AvuZoupof. ay** aX-
Xai tc *j"j” Zjp^ay xa'i X la o v-
d p t( l x i ru S zo if, i f rolf x a y -
rctf avau jSasa-iXc'f Scxac, «y
• %
poV
of r f f /Saa-tWaf <rwoj£e
trdpovf Ixa zo v ilxturi. xa'i
Kept zov x a z a x K v a fa v xa p o -
jjuia fA
.lv, ow
e axa.p6X K a.xza
Keyei o v zu (‘ p u z a EueSipe-
cr^oy 0X
X
0
1 Tiyef fafcay x a i
Eim&pof, cJ 8ij Kpo'yof x p tr tf-
p uttyfi fA.lv t a t a ^ a i xKvjSof
ofifipuv A e a lo v j^ U . §§ xe-
Xeuei 8e Trav o t« yp a u f/a zto v
r/v l%pfMvov Iv 'HXiowroXci ||||
t j A l i x x a p m a - i v airo -
xpvipai. EiVi&pof Se z a v r a
i x t z t K i a * * * x t u r j a a f c i ! b f t t f
who was of the city of Pantibiblon:
then Megalarus of the same place 4
reigned eighteen sari: then Dai?grthe 6“ 6 /
shepherd, governed for the space of
ten sari; he was of Pantibiblon ; in
his time four double-shaped person
ages came up out of the sea to land,
whose names were Euedocus, Eneu-
gamus, Eneuboulus, and Anementus :
afterwards in the time of Euedores- (*?) fa
chus appeared another Anodaphus.
After these reigned other kings, and
last of all Sisithrus: so that in the
whole, the number amounted to ten
kings, and the term of tlpeir reigns to
an hundred and twenty sari. (And
among other things not irrelative to
the subject, he continues thus con
cerning the deluge :) After Euedores-
chus some others reigned, and then
Sisithrus. To him the deity Cronus
foretold that on the fifteenth day of
the month Desius there would be a
deluge of rain : and he commanded
him to deposit all the writings what
ever which were in his possession, in
the city of the Sun in Sippara. Sisi
thrus, when he had complied with
these commands, sailed immediately
to Armenia, and was presently in-
* /ciS* <
jj>, with aec....................... Go. throughout
f M«ydfoavof A. J Go. § 'E
>
d
t/S
ou
A
,of Sc.
U ’Ac&vffoxou Sc. ’AwS Aapof Go. •• Go.— oCg Go. m.
ff aX
A
o< to) t) A.— aW oi &
$
or« Anon. DincL
XX Aa/a/ou Dind.
H
U‘HA/ou x 6 \ti Go.
3^0o
lO*
I(t^of'
■jfifacxTff tic) 8
«xa Go.
2iair6goioiv Dind. *** ?tij r«A«a Go.
M F
(V
3 ir r
T? *
Digitized by Google
34 B E R 0SSUS.
l i t ‘Ap/MvlrK d y & t\o e , kcc)
itapavT ixa. pjkv* K ariX apt)Saw
t a I k to o S eov. rpitri
rifupeiI lift) v u v \ h u m a n e ,
pteriet t uy opvfouv) ittipy^y J
jroifJfMvo? c» irov *yij. i8oiey
to o £8<xto< ^uSSo’av" a l 8e
Ixbexopteyov <r<p€a,( iteXdyeos
dpupt%ayeof dnopeovnai § oxij
xa& opuiV ovrai 11 ita pit rov
Sio’i&pov, m in a M pti^ovrat)
K
O
li lit C
L
V
IT
jV CTepflU.**
eo( Se TpiTijtriv fnJ-
X « 1,!+ + iitlx a v o § § y i p 8^
mjXoE xaT anX foi to8{ x a p -
(rov{, 2 r« /p ii» |||| I £ dy% p6itay
atp a yK p vn i, t8 8e itAoToy £v
’Ap/utv/fl iteplarrra (tlXay d \ e -
£t<papf*axa x d l roTniy
pltup ita.pel'XfTO.
spired by God. Upon the third day
after the cessation of the rain Sisi-
thrus sent out birds, by way of
experiment, that he might judge
whether the flood had subsided. But
the birds passing over an unbounded
sea, without finding any place of rest,
returned again to Sisithrus. This he
repeated with other birds. And when
upon the third trial he succeeded, for
the birds then returned with their
feet stained with mud, the gods
translated him from among men.
With respect to the vessel, which yet
remains in Armenia, it is a custom of
the inhabitants to form bracelets and
amulets of its wood.—Syncel. Chron.
38.—Euseb. Prcep. Evan. lib. 9.—
Euseb. Chron. 5. 8.
OF THE TOWER OF BABEL.
’E»t! 8’ n ol \eyovm They say that the first inhabitants
to8{ npuTovf*** &
va.<
rxovTa< of the earth, glorying in their own
p
n
S
fM
] re xa) pteycSet %
auw
»- strength and size, and despising the
Se'yraf xui S
ij Sffuy j-f-f- gods, undertook to raise a tower whose
xaTatppoyytrayraf dptely<
tya( top should reach the sky, in the place
elyai rilptriy ifKlfiionty id- in which Babylon now stands: but
ptw,%%t %yvy BapvAily hr- when it approached the heaven, the
• /a ^v A. iirtTtCuv A.—ixijtix, Urn Go.
X A. § &iroggtoCaou A.
|| 6xt7xot Sogpfooviou A.—oxrjxa Sop/mfcrovrai Go. coJtjjai Go.
** irougoii A. ff ncr) A. JJ ?tv^« A. §§ «t«/x«to A.
U
Kfx\v A. Sc.—’Ev tJ 5
J) Go. *** Sc. inserts ix yijf.
ftf* Go. JJJ atfyyiiv Go.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
B E R O S S U S . 35
n», 0
7
8
1
7 Te oLaaov tlvcu too
olpavo0. xai toi>; <W/xoo{
j3o&eovra{* iwatpoj/ai
ttf'i oiro'in t8 /iijxctwjjita,
too 8
17 r a Array keytj-Sai
BafivXava. Tea; 8e ovraj
o/ioyXatnrov{ &(£» woXif-
3 ,p®»+ (poyyy &'*7xao,S:ar,§
fuia. 8< K^o'vf xai Tmjvi ||
awrrrjvai or{\tpuy. 0 8e toVoj
& p mlpryov TiKoS^Mjaav, yEx
BafivXav xa/itiTar, 81a T>jy
trvYXynv rov vcp) tJjv 8k1-
Xcxtov ot/xutov ivarypov(. 'EjS-
paioi yap -rijy rri-fffjaiy Br£/9cX
xaXevo’i.
winds assisted the gods, and over
threw the work upon its contrivers:
and its ruins are said to be still at
Babylon : and the gods introduced a
diversity of tongues ajnong men, who
till that time had all spoken the same
language : and a war arose between
Cronus and Titan. The place in
which they built the tower is now
called Babylon, on account of the
confusion of the tongues; for con
fusion is by the Hebrews called Babel.
—Euseb. Prcep. Evan. lib. 9.—Syncel.
Chron. 44.—Euseb. Chron. 13.
• 3«o) ilQt&iorrat MSS. f Sc.— iftjrm Go.
J Go. m.—iroXCSfwov Go.—no\6$pow Sc.
§ A.—iv&yxaaou Go.—hifxoterSou Sc. || Sc.—r l t m A.—Titow Go.
Digitized by
BEROSSUS:
FROM JOSEPHUS, &c *
OF ABRAHAM.
META a m xaTaxXw/*«v &e- A f te r the deluge, in the tenth ge-
k«tji yaep, tcapa XaX2aioj{ neration, was a certain man among the
tk 3
jy Btxaiop atnjp, xal //«- Chaldseans renowned for his justice
xal Ta oipafia cpwei- and great exploits, and for his skill in
pop. the celestial sciences__Euseb. Prcep.
Evan. lib. 9.
OF NABONASAR.
'Ano tie Nafioyaa-apev -ravp From the reign of Nabonasar only
xpovtvp ri;;tSvaurreput «»f are the Chaldseans (from whom the
reap Xa\Saioi yxpi'ftoxrav, Greek mathematicians copy) accu-
xal XaX8a/av o! trap’ rately acquainted with the heavenly
"
E
X
X
ijo-j jxa&
iif*aT
<xoi X
a/Sov- motions : for Nabonasar collected all
Tcp* imiSri N
af3<
Sva<
rapop the mementos of the kings prior to
<iwa.ya.yuv rap irpd£eip t uv himself, and destroyed them, that the
itpa ainoZ ficuriKeuv, tyavi- enumeration of the Chaldeean kings
• The various readings to some of the following extracts would, if they
were all given, exceed the text in size. I have selected those which appear
to be most material.
Digitized by U x O O Q l e
B E R O S S U S . 37
<
rf», oito? air’ avTw y Kara- might commence with him.—Syncel.
pi&
fojcri? ytnrai r S y XaX- Chron. 207.
8a<av /3curt\tar. ,
OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE JEWISH TEMPLE.
Ti>a rp ixo v n e ftip a i M
t t j v A iy v in e r xai iicl r}p>
tiin c tffa v tJv i/Iov T^y
L a vro v Na/Sovxflhoyia’opay fK~
t & m V S j f ivtdfM ui;, ivetB ij-
ittp SupterT uraf airoy? in ti-
8 fe n it& yray Jxjirlnjo-e, xai
tJk »ai» biirfria-e tSv J* 'Iepo-
<ToXufMii, SXd{ Tf ir4vra tic
Tap ii/u iy "Aaov &ta<rry<ra(,
(1( Ba/SvX Sya peTtpyutTfy.
a vyifin 8e xai Tijv iroXiy Jpij*
fu & rjya i yjpiyav tr u y fjS&
opM
)-
xoira, fA£%pi Ki/poy Toy LUp-
aw {Saa-tXtuf. Kfa-r/jrai
(tp r^'i) ray BafSvAirvtay A l y i r -
ra v, "Z vfia f, $oiyixi)?, ’Apa-
/3Cat, r& yra< t i iv e p fia X K i-
ptvoy * r a i ( irpaffcri Toy? irpj
ayroS XaX&a/ar xai BajSc-
Xctio* (Sr/SaTiXfioafra?.
He (Nabopollasar) sent his son
Nabuchodonosor with a great army
against Egypt, and against Judea,
upon his being informed that they had
revolted from him; andby that means
he subdued them all, and set fire to
the temple that was at Jerusalem; and
removed our people entirely out of
their own country, and transferred
them to Babylon, and our city re*
mained in a state of desolation during
the interval of seventy years, until the
days of Cyrus king of Persia. (He
then says, that) this Babylonian king
conquered Egypt, and Syria, and
Phoenicia, and Arabia, and exceeded
in his exploits all that had reigned
before him in Babylon and Chaldaea.
—Joseph, contr. Appion. lib. 1. c. 19.
OF NEBUCHADNEZZAR.
’A
xoyVa? St o itarrip ai- When Nabopollasar his (Nabucho-
toS N
aj8«roX
X
o<rap<i?,f or<a donosor’s) father, heard that the go-
rcraypeyof aarpimtf eyreJ vemor, whom he had set over Egypt,
* wr«p/8
aAfyiivov MSS.
f Hud. m.—Hot&oh&ffffapQg Hud. from MSS. X n T? Go.
Digitized by Google
38 BEROSSUS.
A ly v m 'p x a l t o ntp'i Trjv
Z vpiay T»;y KoiXigy x a l ttjv
^OlVmiJV T07TOI5 a®0CTaTl}<
•yeyovey, o i SijvdfMvoi; a i r i f
c tj xaxOTia-JcTv, o w n j a a f
t $ v!j> NajSot^oSoyotrofji* ovtj
c t i cy jjXjx/foJ /ue/»j Tiva t ^ j
Suyajuca;, i(eT C /ul*y li t &v~
To'y.|| avpipu£as Sc N a ^ o u ^ o -
8oyoo-oj)o$ T p aTTOTTctTj), x a l
ic a p a ta id p u v o i, a y ro u ' t c
tx v p te w e y , x a l tijv ■/japan J f
4*4 Tl*1 aiTOtl fH aat-
Xc/ay eironjirey. t 5 Sc irarpi
a v ro v <n»cj9ij Naj9o*«X Xa-
cdptp, x a r a TovToy Toy \uzipov
afpurrio-aVTi, iv Tjj B a ftv -
X uviuy iroXe* px.cT aX X dfai Toy
jS/ov, ct*j ScjSatnXcvxoTi cixo-
cr»y c
’yyca.**
A lirS ip u vo f Sc fM t' ov m \ i
rijn to o iroTj)o{ TcXcoTijy N a -
j3oUXo8oyoVopO{, XOtTOKTT^O-aj
to . x a r a Tijy Ayywrroy itp d y -
p ia r a x a l T7jy Xoiirijy /u p a v ,
x a l T0t{ CU/JAakdTOVf ‘l<w-
Baluv t c x a l 4oty/xa>y x a l
Evpwy x a l T ay x a x a xljy A i-
yw rroy l^ y u v a w r d ( a f n a i
t S y iplXay, purtd fia p v r d -
T ^ fj” !- Siiydpjueu$ x a ! Ttj{ Xo<-
and the provinces of Ccelesyria and
Phoenicia, had revolted, he was de
termined to punish his delinquencies,
and for that purpose entrusted part
of his army to ftis son Nabuchodono-
sor, who was then of mature age, }
and sent him forth against the rebel:
and Nabuchodonosor engaged and
overcame him, and reduced the coun
try again under his dominion. And
it came to pass that his father, Nabo-
pollasar, was seised with a disorder
which proved fatal, and he died in the
city of Babylon, after he had reigned
nine and twenty years.
Nabuchodonosor, as soon as he had
received intelligence of his father’s
death, set in order the affairs of
Egypt and the other countries, and
committed to some of his faithful
officers the captives he had taken
from the Jews, and Phoenicians, and
Syrians, and the nations belonging to
Egypt, that they might conduct them
with that part of the forces which
had heavy armour, together with the
• Na/Sovxoipoa6ptp Dind.—N
<
x/9ou^o8ovo<rSpy Go.—Nabucodrossorus Eu. Ar.
—Na$»xoSpoaSpto A.—B.
f Lat.—Fab.—but a youth—Qy.
X Sync, omits this passage. || <
xut<
3
> Go.
i|aD3<( Eu. •• ? Jos. in Orig. ff t ?( Jos. in Orig.
Digitized by G o o g l e
B E R O S S U S . 39
nijf uipeXelaf ayaxopd^eiy elf
rrjy BajSuXMv/av, aizof op/ty-
<zaf* l\iyo<rrlf napeyeyezo
iia zyjf ipy/Mv elf BafUvXuya.
xaToXajSuv Sc t o npayyux,to
itoiMv/Mva in i XaXSaiW,
xal SiaT7)pouftcvi)v Trjv jSaa»-
Xc*ay Siro roti fSeXzltnov av-
rov, xvpievzaf i£ oXoxXi
-rij; nazpixrjf apxff- ToI{ pdy
alyjJLaXdmf napaytyi/xentf
<rvyeza£ey oanoif aneixlaf iy
zoif cirmjScioTaTot? Ba-
fivkoylaf zlnoif iict^e~£ai,
&
V
T
C
f Sc <*T
T
O t 5v ToC WO-
\ifu v \aupiSpuy, r l ze B))Xow
/cf» xal t o Xoiira xj<r/jurj<raf
<pi\ozl/M>f. Tijy tc inapyflv-
<ra.y e£ dpxff m'tev, xal ize-
pay efu&ey zpGay^zpizdfMYOf
xa) dyaxaiyqtraf^ nplf z l
fjLijxezi 8vydaSlai zovf mktup-
xovyzaf zov nozaulv dva-
<rrpe<poyzaf in) zrtv nlkiy
xazourxevaCfty, inepefidXezo
zpeif pey zijf evSox rnXeuf
nepifla'Aovf, zpeif Sc zrjf e£u
zoilzuv, zovf fxey ef Snzijf
nX/v&ou xa< daipdkzov, zolf
Sc i£ aizyjf zzjf nk/t&w. Kai
zeixlzaf d£io\iyo( zrjy nokiy,
x a l tou{ TruXSva? xcKTprjzaf
leponpenSf, npcirxazeaxeva-
rest of his baggage, to Babylonia: in
the mean time with a few attendants
he hastily crossed the desert to Baby
lon. When he arrived there he found
that his affairs had been faithfully
conductedby the Chaldaeans, and that
the principal person among them had
preserved the kingdom for him : and
he accordingly obtained possession of
all his father’s dominions. And he
distributed the captives in colonies in
the most proper places of Babylonia:
and adorned the temple of Belus,
and the other temples, in a sumptuous
and pious manner, out of the spoils
which he had taken in this war. He
also rebuilt the old city, and added
another to it on the outside, and so
far completed Babylon, that none, who
might besiege it afterwards, should
have it in their power to divert the
river, so as to facilitate an entrance
into it: and he effected this by build
ing three walls about the inner city,
and three about the outer. Some of
these walls he built of burnt brick
and bitumen, and some of brick only.
When he had thus admirably fortified
the city, and had magnificently adorn
ed the gates, he added also a new
palace to those in which his forefathers
had dwelt, adjoining them, but ex
ceeding them in height and splendor.
* oQfjJaas A. f AAoxAffaug Go.
\ fooryxtrae Vulg.—cn*xouv(a*s Dind.
Digitized by
40 B E R O S S U S .
Kiv t oT( itarpmtif flaaikeltif
frtpa f3aal\tia lypnaia
butlvuv, vsepatparra A.v6jrrt[~
fia xa! tV aoAXV ncthni-
'/.fiay. M a t ffoy * 8’ ?trtif
ta -ra i U v r i f l l y f f i t a i , irX qy
o t r a y t i i ( \ irfnp8t\r)v i f
fie y a K a x a ! iv fp y p a v a ,
(rw e ro X o V & t) y p tp a it 8t x a -
a iir c t. ly h i r t i f p d c i/.flo if
r t i t t i f d v a X tj j O f U tr a J X /& iy a
w /fljX A o t v p x o S o p j i r a j, x a ! T>jv
oi/ziv d tr o J o ^ f o /o o io ra T ijy t o ! j
opttrif x a T a tp v T fvtra f hf>hp€<ri
v a y r th a v tT f l \ t i p y a a a i t , x a !
xaTa<rx£vd<ra{ Toy xaXou'-
jj.fyov yp t/M taziy napctfiei<rtv,
h id t o r i j y y w a u x a u u to v
i x f t v p t i v -rijf ip e la f hia& e-
a e u f, TcSpa/Anevriv 4v T tif
Kara rijv Mi}8»ay§ t ivoif.
Any attempt to describe it would be
tedious : yet notwithstanding its pro
digious size and magnificence it was
finished within fifteen days. In this
palace he erected very high walks,
supported by stone pillars ; and by
planting what was called a pensile
paradise, and replenishing it with all
sorts of trees, he rendered the pros
pect an exact resemblance of a moun
tainous country. This he did to
gratify his queen, because she had
been brought up in Media, and was
fond of a mountainous situation__
Joseph, contr. Appion.Yib. 1. c. 19.—
Syncel. Chron. 220.—Euseb. Prop.
Evan. lib. 9.
OF THE CHALDvEAN KINGS AFTER NEBUCHADNEZZAR.
NajSoi^oW
o-opo* /jJy ouv Nabuchodonosor, whilst he was en-
neto. to a’pfo&
r&
oi too orpoti- gagedin building the above-mentioned
p-rjujyov tflyyif, ipnervv e*{ wall, fell sick, and died after he had
dtforrtay, ^M
T
ijX
X
iifaT
oT
oy reigned forty-three years; whereupon
pity, @tfia.ai\eu%if «ttj too- his son Evilmerodachus succeeded
aapatmnarpla. -njf 8e /9a- him in his kingdom. His govern-
c*X
e»a{ mpitf iyi’
vert i vltf ment however was conducted in an
* B. Dind.— fiaxgoi Hud.— puxfhi Go.
f Dind. and others omit y t tig. J faakfiiiorr* Vulg.
§ M ffitica Dind.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
BEEOSSUS. 41
ainn Eiti\/uiptitcrvx»{.* oI- illegal and improper manner, and he
rif 'ttph&niit rth rpvypui- fell a victim to a conspiracy which
‘t i n d v i/jtu iiu u dtrtXySf i m - was formed against his life by Nerig-
prilndcU to*tljy <
&
«X
- lissoorus, his sister’s husband, after he
<
ptjf e%Mrn( d in tZ Ni)(iyhur- had reigned abotit two years.
niptvfirgfii&
r),fianiXetraf
e
v
r]tifo. ...........
' M ( r i ‘(Si to ivaiptSfyai
W
Eto., i]I-
i ^TijSovXti/tra; alrztp
N jptfK i& fioptofj IfiarlX ev& ey
Irt/-vittaO
pa. ' *
'> '
’"■Th j t o v ' v l l f A a fh p o tn d p -
im p k tx re fitv -ri)<
/S
a
d
o
-»
?
»
E
«
*
{ *a~?' to
y p
tS
Jy
a
s
i n i a ' iri/3 w X a > S t)f H i Sid
to t.oXXsx ipupeuven xaxoydi],
ini ra» (plXuv dnexvjMta-
'■' Upon His death'Neriglissoorus, the
chief of the conspirators, obtained
possession ofthe kingdom,andreigned
four year*.
He was succeeded by his son La-
borosoarchodus who was but a child,
•and reigned nine months; for his
misconduct he was seized by conspi
rators, and putrto death by torture.
vhr&r).
'AnoXopUnov te tA to v , crw-
tX&orref oI ink(2w \A aayrc(
txirtip, xoikjj rt]f fleunXetav
xtptiSyptav Naj8oyyij8$
>§ t i t i
TSy i x Ba/SvXovtf, o m ex
■nj( a£rij( inurwrrdiTtU f. [
|
ex! rorfrou rot nepi rlv n v ta -
fjk
o
v Tt/jp? trji Baj3v\a>lav
ni/ueuf, i£ oirrijf nXlnStiv xa i
After his death, the conspirators
assembled, and by common consent
placed the crown upon the head of
’
Nabonttedus, a man of Babylon, and
one of the leaders of the insurrection.
It was in his reign that the walls of
the city of Babylon which defend the
banks ofthe river were curiously built
with burnt brick and bitumen.
dtrtpdXrm xarex/xr/xySh].
Owr>)« t i ty j! ^ c u riX tla f In the seventeenth year of the reign
dvtov ix r f iirtaxaibexaTif of Nabonnedus, Cyrus came out of
inei, itpoete\r)Xu&
el<If Kvpos Persia with a great army, and having
• EitXjua\oipo\jxo; Eu. f SufiyXlctipou Eu.
X AaBopoffipaayos Al.—Xa^ettaa^afa-^og Eu.
§ N
orm
»/3<p MS. El.—Na/So»/3y Eu. || Eu. Hud.—«jri<rr4<r«wf Vulg.
irpo<ri\riM5<tjf Eu.—«|«A>jXy$a>r Syn.
G
Digitized by U o o Q l e
42 BEROSSUS.
ix rrj( Hepo-ftoi perA ivyd- conquered all the rest of Asia, ad-
u€U( ®
oX
X
?«, K
oi xaraaxpt- vanced hastily into the country of
4/d/jievof rrjy Xounjv '\<rla»* Babylonia. As soon as Nabonnedus
itaa-ay, Sp^a-ty in) Ba- perceived he was advancing to attack
f}v\o>
yiot(. alaSifjxws it Na- him, he assembled his forces and op-
jSo'w
j&
j irjv etpoiw avrov, posed him, but was defeated, and fled
airamjva* («xa -nj< iwd- with a few of his adherents, and was
/««{ x«l tcaparaidi*tvo(, shut upin the city ofBorsippus. Upon
t5 i*axo xal <pvy2v this Cyrus took Babylon, and gave
.o\iyorrl<, <
rv*txX
eta$}ri el< orders that the outer walls should be
trp>Bop<
w
m
7)*&
visoK
iv. Kvpof demolished, because the city appeared
it BafiviZva xavaXajSo/M
i'o;, of such strength as to render a siege
xai avutdiat ri'efu t?k almost impracticable. From thence
rtlppi xaTao-xdipai, he marched to Borsippus, to besiege
Std to X
i«v airy tpar/funi- Nabonnedus: but Nabonnedus de-
K
T
jv Kot ivo-dXurov tpatijvai livered himselfinto his hands without
txjv oroX
iv. 'Aattfvlev ivi holding out the place : he was there-
B
o'^
m
onrov, ixm\iopxrj<ruy to » fore kindly treated by Cyrus, who
N
a/9o'm
)8ov. toS 8 «NajSom)- provided him with an establishment
tcv oix imiAthanof Tqv wo- in Cannama, but sent him out ofBa-
Xjofx«i», aX
X
’ ly%
upi\tra.rr(tt, bylonia. Nabonnedus accordingly
aMv, •npittpn ^ijo-a/wvo; spent the remainder of his life in that
K
fyo«fpiXavdpuniif, not Bolf country, where he died.—Joseph,
tixrprfipiw avrijS Kapptaylay, contr. App. lib. 1. -C. 20.—Euseb.
tlntpi^tv hc nj(Ba/3v\aylaf. Praep. Evan. lib. 9.
N
a^o'nojSo; pieyd v , to Xoiwov
toS yjpw
m
) itar/tyopotyof iv
ixtivri T
T
I x^Pft xaTetrrpnpt
tov ploy.
OF THE FEAST OF SACEA.
B^poxrtro; it cVrptlncp B x- Berossus, in the first book of his
jSuXawiaxSv, t$> Aoilp, fip/r), Babylonian history, says ; That in the
* bamKitou Srtxotu Eu.
BEROSSUS. 43
ftijM inmifevAry aycrSai eleventh month, called Loos, is cele-
fopnjv 2a*ea{ vpotrayoptvo- brated in Babylon the feast of Sacea
ptn/pi ivHapvXvrt M im
cpou; for five days, in which it is the custom
xcvt€, g
> aU <
&
of &
p- that the masters should obey their
X«rSfcu T
ofcf ittntitaf into domestics, one of whom is led round
rSr olxtTov, dtporytia-Srat nt the house, clothed in a royal garment,
•rijp o'nuaf era avrSy eiitlu- andhimtheycallZoganes.—Athenceus,
Ana {-o\rp ofuiay trj Boat- lib. 14.
Xutjj, m xaAtttr&cu Zoyayrjv.
Digitized by Google
MEGASTHENES:
FROM ABYDENUS.
OF NEBUCHADNEZZAR.
ABTAHN02 iv t j 'A a -n p la v
ypw
fyjtM
eyarO
ew
iq8
c(pyai.
NafiovKotipoaopov *Hpaxkio$ *
dXKifAarepov yeyovora tic i r e
A*jSvrjv ytau 'Iprjpivjv a“ipa~
rtZ ro u * T avT atf 8e x e ip w r a -
fMvav diroba<T[Jcov a Z re u y c/$
roc Sfjia T
O
WHOVTOV XOtTOlx/-
<rai. M e r d 8« k e y e r a i t p l f
XaXSai'av, up a v a fia p i t ) r d
j3am'Kri'ia xaraTxe&eiij Sea)
orep Si). ) <p$ry£iiiMVOf 8e
fln e v ovTtuf. “ 'E y u Na-
Povnoipirropop, u Baj9uXa!vi0i,
tijvjntXXm ta v ipiiv tp o a .y y i\-
Xil OV[Mfx>prl<l, T
T
/V OVT€ B5jX
o{
^/xo{ tpoyovof, cure jSaxr/Xeict
BijAtj; dm rpetf/jci /xolpetf
t(i< ra t irSeyowri.J rj^ft Tlep-
cnjj 7)pt/ovo{ Toiiriy litxeTepom
Satpcocn xptup.tvo( avfif/id'ppfii-
Ab y d en u s , in his history of the
Assyrians, has preserved the follow
ing fragment of Megasthenes, who
says : That Nabucodrosorus, having
become more powerful than Hercules,
invaded Libya and Iberia, and when
he had rendered them tributary, he
extended his conquests over the in
habitants of the shores upon the right
of the sea. It is moreover related
by the Chaldaeans, that as he went up
into his palace he was possessed by
some god ; and he cried out and said:
“ Oh ! Babylonians, I, Nabucodroso
rus, foretel unto you a calamity which
must shortly come to pass, which
neither Belus my ancestor, nor his
queen Beltis, have power to persuade
the Fates to turn away. A Persian
mule shall come, and by the'assist
ance of your gods shall impose upon
• 'H(otxKliue Eu. f Sc—$ i£ . t r i lity, Eu.
| Sc.— Eu.
itized by Google
MEOASTHBNES. 45
< n lvd£ei 81 fcvXarfnp>. oJ you the yoke of slavery: the author
hvj awomof errou to of which shall be a Mede, the vain
'Kaaipua aSxspux. i( e'&e glory of Assyria. Before he should
puy rpoaSty, r, imycu rovf thus betray my subjects, Oh! that
ioXhjto* yyipufton riya !j some sea or whirlpool might receive
SdXaaaay t'laStZapUnjv air- him, and his memory be blotted out
■rSrcu vpifpZfiy, 5
j jM
y aXKas for ever ; or that he might be cast out
88085 crrpaipcrra <f>tpta%
ai to wander through some desert, where
8ia rij? eprjpuv, !»« ovrt da- there are neither cities nor the trace
tco, tiae- wdn^-dv^Spimm, of mert, a solitary exile among rofcks
SSipep. 81 in/uv -exfipai, xa)' and caverns where beasts'and birds
SpytSff t'KdCflyrat, cvtc mi- alone abide. But for'me, before he
Tfrpprt. iuu x*p<®
pt<r‘ pt-own■ shall have coneeived these ftiischirfs
d&ApMvv' Ip* at 'U
pwif*yi<n>’ in his mind,-a happier end will be
fiaXio&at aauaa, atXeos provided." ’' '•
dpetivoxos rmfimu* "
■ ■ ''
*Q pit Startaa< mapa- 1 When he had thus' prophesied, he
xfipu* ty&ynm. S 8ct! rat’
s expired ( and •was succeeded ’by his
EMtpateopmi%4
f ifiaalxaxt sort Evilmaluruchus, who was slain
to#8c o *t)8c<rri){ dmontCvaf by his kinsman Neriglisares: and
HqpvyKurdpuis, >*im vatba • Neriglisares left Labassoarascus his
ha^aaaodpaaytoy. anlaw 8c so na ti d when he also had suffered
da^oyims j&afypipy, Na- death by violence, they crowned Na-
^aaiiiUxfX'dmStixma; @aai- bannidbehus, who had no connexion
Xca, apoarfxaxrd «! ou&
cv. ay with the royal family; and in his reign
8c Kvposi\e3vTiafiv}£yaKap- Cyrus took Babylon, and granted him
pa»hn ifytpmtrp Sapitaai. a principality in Carmania.
(Kal rep) toZ xalacu St And concerning the rebuilding of
tov N
ajSotijcoSovoV
op -rijy Ba- Babylon by Nabuchodonosor,-he writes
19v\Sya, 3 aMs fdvra ypd— thus i It is said that from the begin-
<
pti") XeycToi 8c ndvaa pur ning all things were water, called the
H dpxqs 58up taai, SdXaa- sea: that Belus caused this state of
<ray xaXco/««jy. B
JjA
ov 8c things to cease, and appointed to each
atpta rauaai, yjiprsy ixdntp its proper place: and he surrounded
amtlpavaa, xal Ba{3v\2ya Babylon with a wall: but in process
* ilt Eu.
Digitized by
46 MEGASTHENES.
mpifiaXeTx' r$ XP^V^ of time this wall disappeared: and
*xitvpJyip dtpavirSrrjmzi. Nabuchodonosor walled it in again,
TdX‘<
reu 8* o2&
»?NajSouxo- and it remained so with its brazen
toxio-opov rl pexpi iij? Maxe- gates until' the time of the Macedo-
twlw dpxfit 8 la/jxivav iov nian conquest. And after other things
X
<*W
«nA
oy. Kal pufr erepa he says: Nabuchodonosor having
’vikdyei, N
«)9oti^
o8o»oV
»po{8 c succeeded to the kingdom, built the
SusScJaficyo? ttjv d p x ijy, B«- walls of Babylon in a triple circuit in
fitikSxa pev inlxyrt rpnckip fifteen days; and he turned the river
vtpifiiktp, i» scvTcx/x/Scx® Armacale, a branch of the Euphrates,
riiMp^tn, rayre ’Apnaxdkrjv and the Acracanus: and above the
voto/mv i£-rjyaytv, iina xe- city of Sippara he dug a receptacle
pat Ewppijriu, riv re ’Axpd- for the waters, whose perimeter was
xoyoy.* i%ip Si -njt Etmta- forty parasangs, and whose depth was
prjfSv mknf, Xaxxoy opv(d- twenty cubits; and he placed gates
jucvo;, TrepI/M
Tpwfjjy Tccrira- at the entrance thereof, by opening
pdnona napaaayyfmi, fid- which they irrigated the plains, and
So? S
’ ipyviSv ettuxn, inkat these they call Echetognomones
iviirrricKv, rdf dmlymnif (sluices): and he constructed dykes
ap8co-xovto T
reS
/o
y
1 naXiwai against theirruptions oftheErythraean
S
’ dvrdf ’Extrvytuptlyat. "
j- sea, and built the city of Teredon
Pmretx‘re 8 c xal ryt ’E p v- to check the incursions of the Arabs ;
Sfit Sakdtraiif arp inlv\v- and he adorned the palaces with trees,
<
r
»y, xal Tc^jSoya itikiv c x t «- calling them hanging gardens.—
<
ra
>
, k«t<x rot; 'ApdfSw tl<r- Euseb. Prcep. Evan. lib. 1 0 .—Euseb.
fiokaf' ra ri fiaatkyia 8 ey- Chron. 49.
8 (
J
0i?ijoicij<
re,xpijjK
aaT
oS?ira-
paSc/roti?ivopuhraf.
* Eu. Ar. translates ’Axpixxyoy, puteum, joining it with the succeeding
paragraph.
t Eu. Ar. adds—quasi quandam voluntatem et affectum ex semetipsis
habuissent.—Self-acting sluices.
SUPPLEMENTAL
FRAGMENTS AND EXTRACTS
ILLUSTRATIVE OP THE
CHALDEAN HISTORY.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
CHALDEAN FRAGMENTS.
OF THE ARK:
FROM NICOLAUS DAMASCENUS.*
T h e r e is above Minyas in the land
of Armenia a very great mountain
which is called Baris; to which, it is
said, that many persons retreated at
the time of the deluge, and were
saved; and that one in particular was
carried thither in an ark, and was
landed on its summit, and that the
remains of the vessel were long pre
served upon the mountain. Perhaps
this was the same individual of whom
Moses the legislator of the Jews has
made mention.—Jos. Ant. Jud. I. 3.
—Euseb. Prcep. Evan. 9.
* Nicolaus Damascenus, a writer of Damascus about the age of Augustus.
His fragments hare been republished by Orellius, Leipzig.
f Baris signifies a ship. Walknaer’s dissertation upon the word Baris may
be found in the Preface to Valpy’s edition of Stephans Thesaurus, p. 322.
Epiphanius styles the mountain Lubar one of the mountains of Ararat; the
Zendavesta calls it Albordi.
t otxiTAai Eu. § Mtuaijg Eu.
E X T I N b u f f tt ] » M i r u a S a
fjLvya. op«f K a r a rijy 'A pfM -
v ia v t B dpip "j" X ey o /w ro v * t l f o
h o a X o aviM jniyoyraf i v i to E
x a T a x X u C jtx c E \i y o f c%€i i r e -
piaaSrijvai, x a i r i tot in ) A ap-
v a y fis o x o v /m v o v inri t i j v a x p i>-
p tia y o xtT X a i,* x a l t « A ti-
i payee r Sv % v\uy ii ti m X v
(rudyjyai. y fy o n o 8’ a y o J ro < ,
or Tiya xa» M w v a y f § art-
y p a ifc y i T o u 8a iw v ro/zofire-
T )}{.
11
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
50 SUPPLEMENTAL
OF THE DISPERSION:
FROM HESTLEUS.
TON 8e Upiuv Toif iicuru-
SoTot; r a tov ’Ei/vaX/oo
A«o{ Upibocna XajSoVra? elf
Scvaap Tij( Bot|SoXa;w'a$ A -
fy. IZxliycurrat (jrj t o
Xoiorov IvrtvZtv Ino t ejp aX-
Xo-yXotfCTuaf* Tap anoixtap
vroiTjo-alxM
voi 7ravTajjoS' xal
y r jv i n a a T o i xaT eX apcjS am
t^» ^m7^avoi)!ray, xai elf yv
a i r o i f rjyey o S e i f .
T h e priests who escaped took with
them the implements of the worship
of the Enyalian Jove, and came to
Senaar in Babylonia. But they were
again driven from thence by the in
troduction of a diversity of tongues :
upon which they founded colonies in
various parts, each settling in such
situations as chance or the direction
of God led them to occupy.—Jos.
Ant. Jud. I. c. 4.—Euseb. Prcep.
Evan. 9.
OF T H E TO W ER OF B A B EL:
FROM ALEXANDER POLYHISTOR.
2IBTAAA 8
e b
u
-o
K
p
iv
e
sv T h e Sibyl says : That when all men
irrcm nuvroivAy&puimv,Tivkp formerly spoke the same language ;
toutuv mipyor imppeyeSiri some among them undertook to erect
olxoSoporja-ai, moif elf t o v o u - a large and lofty tower, that they
• jyuoyXuiru/a; Toif avvont/as Eu. which is preferred by Bryant, who tran
slates it, “ And mankind being as yet all of one language made their settlements
in various parts, Sec.” — Bochart proposes roKuyKwrelai. I see no necessity for
rejecting the original.
Digitized by Google
CHALDA2
AN f r a g m e n t s . 51
ptzr'oy aya/32<ri. to v Se 2r«o2
ayepuv( ipufmayirayTOf a y a -
rpeipai a ir o v f, x a 1 lblay
ixdtrrp <j>m
riv hovvai, 8|0 Si)
BajS vX Sya T ry n o \iy xXrfiry-
ya t. jM T a St Toy x a T a x / . w -
fu y T n a y a . xa.) U popyr^ta
ytyeaSai.
might climb up into heaven. ButGod*
sending forth a whirlwind, confounded
their design, and gave (o each tribe a
particular language of its own: which
is the reason that the name of that
city is Babylon. After the deluge
lived Titan and Prometheus; when
Titan undertook a war against Cro-
nus.f—Sync. 44.—Jos. Ant. Jud. I.
c. 4— Eus. Pregp. Evan. 9.
OF THE TOWER AND TITANIAN WAR:
FROM THE SIBYLLINE ORACLES.;
AAA’ bm izay u cyd X tt* r tX e u y r a i awciXai,
*A{ n o r Anpr«iS.i|« (HptroT< ol mSpyoy «tcofw,
XcSpy i y ' A m p l y Iftiyponoi S’ \a a .x i n a y r t f ,
B u t when the judgments of the Almighty God
Were ripe for execution; when the Tower
Rose to the skies upon Assyria’s plain,
• In the Armenian “ Deus autem omnipotens,” which agrees with the text
of the Sibylline verses in the following page. Josephus and Eusebina have
the plural 3iol, Gods.
f The last paragraph is not in the Greek copies, but the Armenian is as
follows :—“ Post diluvium autem Titan et Prometheus exstiterunt; ubi quidem
Titan adversus Cronnm (soil. Saturnum) bellurn movebat.”
; The translation is from the fourth volume of Bryant’s Mythology, who has
the following remarks upon the fragment.—“ It has been borrowed by some Hel
lenistic Jew, or Gnostic, and inserted amid a deal of trash of his own composing.
The superior antiquity of that part which I have laid before the reader, is plain
from its being mentioned by Josephus. Some lines are likewise quoted by
Athenagoras, and Theophilus Antiochenus. But there are passages afterwards
which relate to circumstances of late date j such as were in time much inferior to
the age of Athenagoras; and still fiirther removed from the sera of Josephus.”
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
SUPPLEMENTAL
Kal /SotlXovr’
AvajS^v’
W< oipavot im e p U r r a ,
A in tx a I n itia te s IjxeyaKvjv hteSrjxev iydyxrfy)*
rlv(vua<Tlv» avrap e v e n ' ave/xoi ueyocv v x ^ d i vip ym
'Ptipav, xoi SvijTtib-tv &r’
aXXijXoi? epiv apaav,
Touvex.il t o i B afivA Sva fiporo) viX et ovvo/jt’ tfoext o .
Aurap facet wipyop t* eveire, yXZc-Tat r &*Sp6vuv
H ayrc& avaif <pava7<ri iiea-rpetpov, a inap axatra
T a la fiporvv xXij^oCto fxepfyiMvuv jSaaiXijaiv.
And all mankind one language only knew:
A dread commission from on high was given
To the fell whirlwinds, which with dire alarms
Beat on the Tower, and to its lowest base
Shook it convulsed. And now all intercourse,
By some occult and overruling power.
Ceased among men: by utterance they strove
Perplexed and anxious to disclose their mind ;
But their lip failed them ; and in lieu of words
Produced a painful babbling sound: the place
Was thence called Babel; by th’ apostate crew
Named from the event. Then severed far away
They sped uncertain into realms unknown :
Thus kingdoms rose; and the glad world was filled.
She then mentions Cronus, Titan, and Japetus, as the three sons
of the patriarch governing the world in the tenth generation
after the deluge, thus,
Kal Tore 8
1
) Sexarrj yevel) pueplvuv avSpvvuv,
'E ( ovnep xaTaxXvo*jtw{ evi vpotfpovf yever’ arSpaj,
Kal p a alkevae Kpovof, xa i T i t o v , ’
iaxenoj re,
The triple division of the earth is afterwards mentioned, over
which each of the patriarchs ruled in peace.
T p la ra i 8^ uepites ya !ijf x a r a xXrjpov exatreov,
* Omitted in Gallseus ; Bryant inserts it.
Digitized by L.ooQle
CHALDEAN FRAGMENTS. S 3
Kal (SaalKewtn ouwrro; i%uy pUpoi;, oiXt ndyflrro'
Then the death of Noah, and lastly the war between Cronus and
Titan.
Ka> yuayrtrravio Kpwof Tndv Tt orpip auiotff.
OF SCYTHISM AND HELLENISM.
FROM EPIPHANIUS.*
IIPflTON al t Sy aipe-
rrluv i array w*ipt( i t xai
orpmoivsor xa! oyoprarrlai,
l£ ay pu)itptp ortut al aXXoi
Irpvqauy, xal tiny aviai orpu-
ia t ittrtraptf.
Tlpim), BapPapitrpilp, ^ iif
xa& iavrrjv Ian, 81apytrra-
rra cup' rjpxtpav lav 'Aia.fi. In)
8«xa yeyedp, tup lev NSt.
BapfSaprrrpwp8e xexXijTat, dm
t ov fj.)] lolp dySrpumvp dpyr-
yivnya tyruy, t\ play rrvfupa-
ylay, d \\' on nap np lavra
Imolytr, xai ylpwp laxntp
ytard rr,» irpn(pr.i)nv too iSiou
fHovXrjiaaior; lylytio.
T h e parents of all the heresies, and
the prototypes from which they de
rive their names, and from which all
other heresies originate, are these
four primary ones.
The first is Barbarism,-f- which pre
vailed without a rival from the days of
Adam through ten generations to the
time of Noah. It is called Barbarism,
because men had no rulers, nor sub
mitted to any particular discipline
of life; but as each thought proper
to prescribe to himself, so he was
at liberty to follow the dictates of
his own inclination.
* TKe following extract from Epiphaniua is given also in the Paschal
Chronicle in disjointed fragments. I have endeavoured to give the spirit of it
as it may be gathered from a comparison of Epiphanius, Cedrenus and the Paschal
Chronicle.
t fty. Patriarchism ?
Digitized Google
54 SUPPLEMENTAL
Afvrepa 2xo&i07*0; diro
t S v jjpepuy t o v N S e , (/«e-
tcSj t» k « ta x X w r/x w , x a i w e-
T « reiT a ) a ^ i T y f t o v orvpyov
oixoSoj«?{ x a l B aj3vXuvo(. x a l
f/.€Ta t o v t o v itilpyov yf&vov
M cXiyoi; e te o tv , t o v t o it t i
$ a X e x x a i 'Pa^yaE . O f tiv e ;
i m t o ivj; E v p u m jf xXT/oa ve-
vevxote; t $ Tvj( E x v& la f pupei,
x a i to “( avrZv eSleiri srpoa-e-
xp'iSstjaav, d uo -njf t o v Qvjpa
ojX ixia;, x a i in e x e iv a ' ovuep
ol 8 p a x e f y e y o v a m .
Tj)i'nj,'EAXf»iff,J
«o{ a irs tw v
Xp&voiv to v Zepov% ivapfcc/te-
ro(, S id to i T tjf clSuX sX aTpia;,
x a l a ? ^o-Toi^ouvTO* TijvixaE-
T a E xaaT o; x a r a n » a S eiot-
Saipoov/a y , eirl to podXXov no-
M T M u n p o v x a l & rl e^ri), x a l
Sre<rpu>v( elSuXoiv T a T T e a S a i ra
t£ v dvS p w iw v y e n j. O if t o t e
<rroix>)<ravTe{ i%olovv 8ia
XpoifmToiv ypduj)0VT(( ttjv d p -
y y v , x a i d m ixd ^o vT « ;± t o o ;
ntdX ai n a p ' a vT o if t e t i jxripie-
vov(, r, t vpdvvovf ij f/yrjpdva(, tj
T ivd; t ! S p a c a v ra ( iv t $
t i SoxoSv afi«v Si' aX-
x ij; r e , ^ aafjodxoov eipuiTTlai;.
The second is Scythism which
prevailed from the days of Noah and
thence downwards to the building of
the tower and Babylon, and for a few
years subsequently to that time, that
is to the days of Phalec and Ragau.
But the nationswhich incline upon the
borders of Europe continued addicted
to the Scythic heresy, and the cus
toms of the Scythians to the age of
Thera, and afterwards; of this sect
also were the Thracians.
The third is Hellenism, which '
originated in the days of Seruch
with the introduction of idolatry: and
as men had hitherto followed each
some demonolatrous superstition of
his own, they were now reduced
to a more established form of polity,
and to the rites and ceremonies of
idols. And the followers of this be
gan with the use of painting, making
likenesses of those whom they had
formerly honoured, either kings or
chiefs, or men who in their lives had
performed actions which they deemed
worthy of record, by strength or ex
cellence of body.
• E piphanius divides the w ord thus, isroi^oO* TO, a n d in th e following
passage places the full stop after Sicyiotii, an d a com m a after y««j, intro d u cin g
after iltdX an the w ords pitt toI yi Jvap l-i/in x . I have in the w hole passage
followed the Paschal Chronicle.
f ftioxoibui Ep. J axaixovgokTif Ep.
ized by G 0 0 g l e
CHALDjEAN FRAGM ENTS. 55
Afyvimoi 8e ifteu xai Ba-
]3u\uyi01, xai Qpvyt; xai 4>o/-
nxe$ ravn\ai rrj; Spr/rxeia;
vparat tlmfyijxai yeyivauriv
dya\ftaronoua; re xai /tvg-
■rTipluv, d<
f> 2y rd nXeTara
e'i; 'EXXijy«< perriyipfiri dni
nj( Kexpmtt; if/axia;. xa> xa-
&<Pj{. M ct«kitoo 8* xai
irrtpip itoKi, n vf vepi Kpo'yey
xai 'Peav, A ia to xai ’Axo'A-
Xaiya, xai xaHjfffi; Stni; dya-
yepeiaavre;.
The Egyptians, and Babylonians,
and Phrygians, and Phoenicians were
the first propagators of this supersti
tion of making images, and of the
mysteries : from whom it was trans
ferred to the Greeks from the time
of Cecrops downwards. But it was
not till afterwards and at a consi
derable interval that Cronus and
Rhea, Zeus and Apollo, and the rest
were esteemed and honoured as
gods.
The following extract is given in Epiphanius preceding the
above.
EIIEITA So aTio r a y y fh y a j
r e v Q d fp a rev n o n pin; 'A ftp a -
a ft, xai 82 a y a X p td r u y rS v
nhdyrjv -njf u lu k o X a r p ia ; el-
<xiffritrdjttyoi, r o i; e a v ru y npo-
rcdropaf Si’a veixe y ia /tS y r e r i-
jtMjxoref, xai ro v; vpe' a ir ily
Ter«Xeur»jxoTa{ xej^nj<7a/*<wi.
ex xepaftetxri; 2iria-!j/x>jc to
vp u ro y, ( v a r a e xd a rri; reyvrj;
ixiftvjirafjtcvr];, oixoSojaoi ftey Ai-
%Joy fcetrayre;, apyvp m o m i 82,
xa2 X pvaexooi, 8«k rrj( Ilia ;
v \rif r tx r ^ y d fte y e t, ovru xai
rex rcy e ;, xai el xa&o£ij{.
A n d from the times of Tharra the
father of Abraham, they introduced
images and all the errors of idola
try ; honouring their forefathers, and
their departed predecessors with
effigies which they fashioned after
their likeness. They first made
these effigies of earthern ware, but
afterwards according to their dif
ferent arts they sculptured them in
stone, and cast them in silver and
gold, and wrought them in wood,
and all kinds of different materials.
Digitized by G o o g l e
5 6 SUPPLEM ENTA L
OF H ELLEN ISM :
FROM CEDRENUS.
E K T?j{ ^tpvkrtf t o v ‘lcupcSl
eyeyyrj'jri 2fpot% , OTTif n puto?
Sjpfaro rov 'EAX>jwo-/*oE, x a !
toE Soy/xaTO{ -n jf eiSaXcAa-
tp c /a { . A t/rof yap, x a ! 0/
<rii» c&vrp T o if n iX a i yeyopie-
vov( 7] BOAepairTas, *j rty t u i -
y<*{, xa< Tt itp a £ a y r a ( anSptaf
V ape-nji a f « v 8y t S /9/oj toE
ftMjftovfi/eo'&aJ, x a ! «{ o y ra j
a m u v npoTiaropas dyhptdcn
<mjX£y fripH jo'ay, x a ! w{ &£ou{
•npoGowjvow c c v t q i; v.cc'i i% v-
a ta ^o v. 0 2 £! jx era t o u t a
a v d p a iru ayysoE yrej Tijy rS y
upoyivuv yvu[ir]v, i n w$ upo-
n a r o p a f x a i aya& w y eipe-
t a { eTijuqtray pu«j/xai{ pU vaif,
u f Sfeov( Inovpaviovs erijuoy,
x a i kSv<ria%oy avroT f. TH v
8e tc t5J{ aTrodcusvai; c r^ p c a
rciQ vrcy. ’Ey TaE{ U p a rixa T f
a vT u v jS/jSXi><$ {TatrxoyTO T a
oyopcara auTwy / u r d TeXeurijy,
x a i x a r ’ Ixciyoy Toy x a ipov
koprrpi a v r S Im T eX ovy, X tyo y-
r e ( T a{ a ir tu v ’pvX & f ei< T a ;
r£y pwtxapuy yijow; feyai,xa!
pujxrn xp/yeaSai ^ xaia&ai
trvp'i.
O f the tribe of Japhet was born
Seruch, who first introduced Hel
lenism and the worship of idols. For
he and those who concurred with
him in opinion honoured their pre
decessors whetherwarriors orleaders,
or characters renowned during their
lives for valour or virtue with co
lumnar statues, as if they had been
their progenitors, and tendered to
them a species ofreligious veneration
as a kind of gods and sacrificed. But
after this their successors, overstep
ping the intention of their ancestors
that they should honour themas their
progenitors and the inventors of
good things with monuments alone,
honoured them as heavenly gods
and sacrificed to them as such. And
the following was the form of their
canonization: they inscribed their
names after their decease in their
sacred books and established a festi
val to each at certain seasons, saying
that their souls had departed to the
islands of the blessed and were never
condemned or burnt with fire.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
CHALD.EAN FRAGMENTS. i)7
OF THE TOWER OF BABEL AND ABRAHAM:
PROM EUPOLEMUS.
IIOAIN Baj3vXuva npuToy
fuy KTi<r&^»ai ino t Sy 8k»-
audevray ex tov Kara*.Xv<r-
f/.ov, dyai-Be airol( yiyayraf,
oixohopeTy Be tov itnopovixeyoy
7
npyov. vc&ovrof Be tovtov
in o Tijf toS &foE iyepyeia(,
■zoip yiyavrai; Siacrirafijrai
xad" oX>jv rijv t^v.
AcxaTj 8t ytvetjZ (^njeriv)
It iroXei t^{ Ba(3v\e>yiaf K a-
fiapiyrh rjy tivat Xtyeiv ttoXjv
Oipltjy, elvou 8« poedepptriytvo-
pt«mjv, XaXSaiav voXiv,
TpnTxaiBextirri yfvetrdou ’A-
19paapi ycytp, tlyeyeiq. xai
trtxpip nayrat vnep^e^rjUToc,
oy 8>) xai tijv a<7Tpo\rylay xai
Xa\Baixrjy eipeiv, ini re T>jv
euaefieiay Ip/ArjirayTa evapea-
rrjycu rip dtp. ToStov 8f 8ia
Ta etpoardyptara rev SeoS
e!( tomxtjy i/divra, xaroixyj-
aaij xai rpmaf r/\iov xai
OT}Xijvtj{ xai Ta aXXa T a rra
SiSafavra to8{ ourxaf, eia-
pttrrrjvat ru fiaaiXei avrSy.
The city of Babylon owes its founda
tion to those who were saved from
the catastrophe of the deluge : they
were the Giants, and they built the
tower which is noticed in history.
But the tower being overthrown by
the interposition of God, the Giants
were scattered over all the earth.
He says moreover that in the tenth
generation in the city Camarina of
Babylonia, which some call the city
Urie, and which signifies a city of the
Chaldaeans, the thirteenth in descent
lived Abraham, of a noble race, and
superior to all others in wisdom; of
whom they relate that he was the in
ventor of astrology and the Chaldaean
magic, and that on account of his
eminent piety he was esteemed by
God. It is further said, that under
the directions of God he removed and
lived in Phoenicia, and there taught
the Phoenicians the motions of the
sun and moon and all other things ;
for which reason he was held in great
reverence by their King.—Euseb.
Prcep. Evan. 9.
i
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
58 SU PPLEM EN TA L
OF ABRAHAM :
FROM NICOLAUS DAMASCENUS.
A B P A M H 2* Ifia a iX e va e A a -
pta a xo v, tirr\Kv( <jvv <rxpa-
x S oupiypevof ( x yyjf xrjf
torep B a /3v \ 2vo( f X aA B atuV
Aeyopevrft. ptex' oi xoA iv yjpo-
vov c£avcurra< x a ) a m x a v -
xrp{ TTji 5
y&paf ativ x $ <r<pe-
xeptp \ a $ C lf xvjv t o t e ptev
X a v a v a la v Aeyoptevyjv, vvv Be
'lovB atav ptexppxrpxe, x a i oi
a x ' ixelvov nAxi$Hjvavxef, otep)
i v Iv exeptp Xiycp Btefcetpu x a
'urxopov/Mva. 1'ov x e 'A fip d -
jUov ext xa't vvv Iv xrj A a p a -
axiprq t o ovopoa 5o f a ^ t r a i ,
x a l '/.'xur. a x a ix o v B eixw -
x a t , 'A fipdpw v o iio jo r? A r y o -
/*«»’)• +
A bram was king of Damascus, and
he came thither as a stranger with an
army from that part of the country
which is situated above Babylon of
the Chaldaeans : but after a short time
he again emigrated from this region
with his people and transferred his
habitation to the land, which was then
called Cananaea, but now Judaea,
together with all the multitude which
had increased with him; of whose
history I shall give an account in
another book. The name of Abram
is well-known even to this day in
Damascus: and a village is pointed
out which is still called the House of
Abram.—Euseb. Prcep. Evan. 9.—
Jos. Ant. Jud. 1. 7.
• 'Afyot&fxris Eu.—W
A0pa/moe Vat. f Ba@vAu»a Eu.
X It is doubtful whether the concluding sentence is that of Nicolaus Damas,
or of Josephus: It is given in Eusebius.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
C H A L D f A N FRAGMENTS. 58-
OF BELUS:
FROM EUPOLEMUS.
BABTAflNIOTE yap keyetv
wparoy yeveaday BijXoy,ov eivai
Kpovov. ’
Ex t o v t o v 8e y tv e a ia i
Iir/.ov, yea) X avaav t o v t o v Be
Toy X a va a v yevvijaay Toy ira-
tepa t u v f c m W . Toi/rav Be
Xobp vlov yevetrSai, ov vice t u v
‘
EXAijvwv keyeaSai "Aa-fiokov
narepa Be A iSdnuy &BeXipoy
Be rev M ea rp a tip , T a r epa
X ly w m u y . EXAtjva< Be keyew
Toy “A rka vT a evprp.ev<u atr-
Tpokoyiav.
For the Babylonians say that the
first was Belus, who is the same as
Cronus. And from him descended
Belus and Chanaan; and this Cha-
naan was the father of the Phoeni
cians. Another ofhis sons was Chum,
who is called by the Greeks Asbolus,
the father of the Ethiopians, and the
brother of Mestraim, the father of the
Egyptians. The Greeks say, more
over, that Atlas was the discoverer of
astrology.—Eus. Pr. Ev. lib. IX.
FROM THALLUS.
KAI yap BijXov ray ’A<rav-
pluy fiao-ikevaavrof, yea) Kpo-
yov t o v TitSvo{ @ dkko( pep-
H |rai, (jydimoni Toy Bykov vem -
kepvjvUvcu aim toT( T natri
vpof t o v A la, xal toi>{ obv
aurp 6eov( keyopevovf, evia
(prTiv, xol o Tilyof
eepvyev el( Taprr/<r<roy.
Kara yap Tyv Q akkov !<r-
Toplay, o Brjko( vpoyevea-Tepof
eipterxeTai t o v ’IXjcixoJ voke-
pov ereai t * & .*
T h a l l u s makes mention of Belus,
the king of the Assyrians, and Cro
nus the Titan ; and says that Belus,
with the Titans, made war against
Zeus andhis compeers, who are called
Gods. He says, moreover, that Gy-
gus was smitten, and fled to Tar-
tessus.
According to the history of Thal
lus, Belus preceded the Trojan war
322 years— Theoph. ad Aut. 281,
282.
• if' xo) V Al.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
59- SUPPLEM ENTAL
OF THE ASSYRIAN EMPIRE:
FROM CTESIAS.
IUPAIIAHEinE 8e r <tiT<f
xai of komoi f}atn\t7s, na7(
itapa itarpof SiaSeyJ/xeyof rrjy
apXyv, fir! ytv€a( rpiaxovra
if3atrl\evtray, pexpi SapSa-
vairoAou. 'E li tou'tou yap r/
t ay ‘Acavplay yiyeputvia poore-
weaer M))8oo$, ctij Sia-
fxeiyatra itXtlu ruy ^tXiW xai
Tpiaxscri'ay, i n 8’ ifijxovTa,*
xaSairep ^nja-l Krijo-ia; o Kv/-
8105 & t 9J iSaircpjt flifiXtp.
In like manner all the other kings
succeeded, the son receiving the
empire from his father, being alto
gether thirty in their generations to
Sardanapalus. In his time the em
pire passed to the Medes from the
Assyrians, havingremainedwith them
upwards of 1360* years, according to
the account of Ctesias the Cnidian, in
his second book__Diod. Sic. lib. II.
p. 77.
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS.
'H pih ovv yiye/M
ivta t5v In the manner above related, the
’A a v v p lu v a m N/yov h a /M i- empire of the Assyrians, after having
yaa-a p-iy rptaMyra ytyeat, continued from Ninus thirty descents,
rnj 8e w
X
eiai tSv %
i>
Jiiy xai and more than 1400 years, was finally
TCTpaxocrtuy,ino M
ijSbvxart- dissolved by the Medes.—Diod. Sic.
A
tf&
i) rbynpoeiprjfxeyoy rpimy. lib. II. p. 81.
FROM HERODOTUS.
A22TPIAN apxbyroiy rij? The Medes were the first who began
aval ’A
o-itj{in’erea ilxotri xai the revolt from the Assyrians after
ircvT
axo a, ocpuToi M airily they had maintained the dominion
M^Soi rip^anrotiir!oTa<rSai. over Upper Asia for a period of 520
years.—Lib. I. c. 95.
* The Armenian omits the sixty years.
Digitized by
CH ALDEAN FRAGMENTS. 59
OF NABOPOLASAR:
FROM ALEXANDER POLYHISTOR.*
TOTTON (Na/3omAaaapov)
i HoXvitrrup ’AAs£rcv8po{ 2 «p-
ZavivaXtiy xa.\eT vreuipayra
ipo( 'ti.trTvi.yrpi '2,aTpim)v
M)jbdaf, xa< rrjy Svyarcpa
airov 'Aptvirrp XajSovra vvu-
<
p
r
}
>« { tov way ouItoE N a -
fHovxp&
ovZtrop. oZt o( o'Tpa-nj'yo*
inro iSapaxof rov XccXSaiav
f$a<rikiu( o~raAel{, ytaroc rov
aintru Xapaxof €i; N»W exi-
trrparevft. oZ rrtv ttfxftw
o jZipaxof iavrly
civ roTi; QctriKtloic, iv€npy]trtv.
vuu rvjy ipy},y XaXSaiay ira-
peXajSey o airo? NajSoiroXa-
trajjo; o tou NajSou^oSovvaipov
varr/p.
N a b o p o l a s a r , whom Alexander Po-
lyhistor calls Sardanapallus, sent to
Astyages the Satrap of Media, and
demanded his daughter Amu'ites in
marriage for his son Nabuchodono-
sor. He was the commander of the
army of Saracus King of the Chal-
daeans, and, having been sent upon
some expedition, turned his arms
against Saracus and marched against
the city of Ninus (Nineveh). But
Saracus confounded by his advance
set lire to his palace and burnt him
self in it. And Nabopolasar obtained
the empire of the Chaldaeans: he
was the father of Nabuchodonosor.—
Euseb. Chron. 46.
OF T H E CHALDiEAN AND ASSYRIAN KINGS:
FROM ALEXANDER POLYHISTOR.
V erum haec quoque Polyhistor In addition to the above Poly-
iis adjiciens, scribit: quod histor continues thus: After
nempe post diluvium Chaldaeo- the deluge Evexius held pos-
rum regionem Evexius tenebat session of the country of the
• This and the following fragments of Alexander Polyhistor are most pro
bably extracts from the history of Berossus.
j O O Q K
UKit,
CO SUPPLEM ENTAL
6
£
>
o iHob
lu>-2r
>
‘r*
Yftx.'iHW*
neris quatuor. Ac post eum
filius ejus Comosbelus impe-
rium suscepit per neros qua
tuor, et sossos quinque. A
Xisuthro vero, et a diluvii tem
pore usque ad illud, quo Medi
Babylonem ceperunt, reges om-
nino l x x x v i . Polyhistor re-
censet, atque unumquemque ex
Berossi volumine nominatim
memorat: tempus vero om
nium eorum numero annorum
trium myriadum et tribus mil-
libus uno et nonaginta com-
prehendit. Deinde vero post
eos, cum ita firmiter stabiliti
erant, repente Medi copias ad-
versus Babylonem compara-
bant, ut caperent earn, atque
ex se ipsis Tyrannos ibi con-
stituerent.
Deinde nomina quoque Me-
dorum tyrannorum ponit, vm.
numero : quorum anni ccxxiv
et rursum reges undecim, an-
nosque... Postea Chaldaeorum
reges x l i x , et annos c c c c l v i i i .
Deinde Arabum ix reges, et
annos c c x l v . Post quos annos
etiam ipsam Semiramidem in
Assyrios dominatam esse tra-
dit. Atque iterum minute
enumerat nomina regum x l v ,
adsignans illis annos d x x v i .
Chaldseans during a period of
four neri. And he was suc
ceeded by his son Comosbelus,
who held the empire four neri
and five sossi. But from the
time of Xisuthrus and the de
luge, to that at which the
Medes took possession of Ba
bylon, there were altogether
eighty-six kings. Polyhistor
enumerates and mentions each
of them by name from the vo
lume of Berossus : the duration
of the reigns of all which kings
comprehends a period of thirty- 33 091
three thousand and ninety-one
years. But when their power
was thus firmly established,
the Medes suddenly levied
forces against Babylon to sur
prise it, and to place upon the
throne kings chosen from
among themselves.
He then gives the names of
the Median Kings, 8 in num
ber, who reigned during the
period of 224 years : and again
11 Kings during . . . . years.
Then 49 Kings of the Chal-
daeans458 years. Then 9 Kings
of the Arabians 245 years.
After all these successive
periods of years he states that
Semiramis reigned over the
Assyrians. And again minutely
enumerates the names of 45
Digitized by
CH A L O E A N FRAGMENTS. 61
Post quos, inquit, rex Chal-
daeorum fuit, cui nomen Phu-
lus; de quo item Hebraeorum
quoque historia meminit, Phu-
lum denominans, quern in ter
rain Judaeorum venisse aiunt.
Kings, assigning to them a term
of 526 years. After whom, he
says there was a King of the
Chaldaeans, whose name was
Phulus: Of whom also the
historical writings of the He
brews make mention under the
name of Phulus (Pul) who they
say invaded the country of the
Jews.—Eu. Ar. Chron. 39.
OF SENECHERIB:
FROM ALEXANDER POLYHISTOR.
Po st quam regnasset frater
Senacharibi, et deinde post-
quam Acises in Babylonios
dominatus esset, et nec dum
triginta quidem diebus reg-
num'tenuisset,aMarodach Ba-
ladano occisus est; et Maro
dach Baladanus per vim (reg-
num) tenuit sex mensibus:
eum vero interfieiens regna-
bat quidamcui nomen Elibus.
Verum tertio regni ejus anno
Sennecheribus rex Assyrio-
rum exercitum conflabat ad-
versus Babylonios, prcelioque
cum iis commisso vicit, et
captum una cum amicis, in
terram Assyriorum perduci
jussit. In Babylonios ergo
Af t e r the reign of the brother
of Senecherib, Acises reigned
over the Babylonians, and when
he had governed for the space of
thirtydays,he was slain by Maro
dach Baladanus, who held the
empire by force during six
months : and he was slain and
succeeded by a person named
Elibus. But in the third year
of his reign Senecherib king of
the Assyrians levied an army
against the Babylonians ; and in
a battle, in which they were en
gaged, routed, and took him pri
soner with his adherents, and
commanded them to be carried
into the land of the Assyrians.
Having taken upon himself the
G2 SUPPLEM ENTAL
dominatus, regem eis filiurn
suum Asordanium constituit;
ipse vero recedens terram As-
syriorum petiit.
Quum autemillefama acce-
pissetGraecos in Ciliciambelli
movendi causa pervenisse, ad
eos contendit; aciem contra
aciem instruit,ac plurimis qui-
dem de suo exercitu ccesis
hostes (tamen) debellat atque
in victorias monumentum ima-
ginem suameo in loco erectam
reliquit, Chaldaicisque litteris
fortitudinem suam ad futuri
temporis memoriam incidi
jussit. Et Tarsum urbem,
inquit, ipse ad similitudinem
Babylonis condidit, quam ap-
pellavit Tharsin. Et post
omnia facta Sinnecherimi il-
lud quoque addens, ait eum
xvin annis vixisse (in im-
perio); et per insidias quas
illi paravit filius Ardumusa-
nus, e vita excessisse.
government of the Babylonians,
he appointed his son Asordanius
their king, and he himself retired
again into Assyria.
When he received a report
that the Greeks had made a hos
tile descent upon Cilicia, he
marched against them and fought
with them a pitched battle, in
which, though he suffered great
loss in his own army, he over
threw them, and upon the spot
he erected the statue of himself
as a monument of his victory ;
and ordered his prowess to be
inscribed upon it in the Chaldsean
characters, to hand down the re
membrance ofit to posterity. He
built also the city of Tarsus after
the likeness of Babylon, which
he called Tharsis. And after
enumerating the various exploits
of Sinnecherim, he adds that he
reigned 18 years, and was cut off
by a conspiracy which had been
formed against his life by his son
Ardumusanus.—Eu. Ar. Chron.
42.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
CH A LD EA N FRAGM ENTS. 62.
OF SENECHERIB AND HIS SUCESSORS:
FROM ALEXANDER POLYHISTOR.
Ac post eum Senecheribum
Polyhistor fuisse regem ait.
p. 41.
(Tamen Sinecherib ipsum,
et filium ejus Asordanum, ac
Marodach Baladanum, Chal-
daeus quoque historicus com-
memorat, cum illis etiam Na-
buchodonosorum.) p. 42.
Regnavit Sinecherim, ut
Polyhistor exponit,annis xvm.
et post eum ejusdemfiliusannis
vin. Postea vero Sammuges
annis xxi. et frater ejus annis
xxi. Ac deinde Nabupalsar
annis xx. et post, eum Nabu-
codrossorus annis x l i i i . (A
Sinecberimo usque ad Nabu-
codrossorum comprehendun-
tur anni omnino txxxvm.)
p. 44.
Post Samugen vero Sar-
danapallus Chaldseus regnavit
annis xxi. Hie exercitum As-
tyagi Medo, familiae Principi
ac Satrapae, auxilio misit, ut
Amuhean Astyagis filiam Na-
bucodrossoro filio suo uxorem
daret. Ac deinderegnavit Na-
bucodrossorus annis x l i i i , et
A nd after him (Pul) according
to Polyhistor, Senecherib was
king.
(The Chaldaean historian also
makes mention of Senecherib
himself, and Asordanus his son,
and Marodach Baladanus, as well
as Nabuchodonosorus.)
And Sinecherim reigned eigh
teen years; and after himhis son-
eight years. Then reigned Sam
muges twenty-one years, and
likewise his brother twenty-one
years. Then, reigned Nabu
palsar twenty years, and after
himNabucodrossorus forty-three
years. (Therefore, fromSineche
rim to Nabucodrossorus is com
prehended a period altogether of
eighty-eight years.)
After Samuges, Sardanapallus
the Chaldaean, reigned twenty-
one years. He sent an army to
the assistance of Astyages the
Mede, Prince and Satrap of the
family, that he might give the
Amuhean daughter of Astyages
to his son Nabucodrossorus.
Then reigned Nabucodrossorus
Digitized by Google
63- SUPPLEM ENTAL
contractis copiis veniens cap-
tivos duxit Judaeos et Phoe-
nices ac Syros.
Et post Nabucodrossorum
regnavit filius ejus Amilmaru-
dochus, annis x i i . ... Postque
ilium in Chaldaeos regnavit
Neglisarus annis iv. et postea
Nabodenus annis x v i i . Sub
quo Cyrus Cambysis (filius)
exercitum duxit in terram Ba-
byloniorum. Cui obviam ivit
Nabodenus, atque victus fugae
se dedit: et regnavit Babylone
Cyrus annis ix. Deinde in
campo Daas altero certamine
inito mortuus est. Post quern
Cambyses regnat annis vm.
ac deinde Darius annis xxxvi.
post quern Xerxes caeteri quo-
que Persarum reges. p. 44.
forty-three years; and he came
with a mighty army, and led the
Jews, and Phoenicians, and Sy
rians into captivity.
And after Nabucodrorossus
reigned his son Amilmarudo-
chus, twelve years.... And after
him Neglisarus reigned over the
Chaldaeans four years ; and then
Nabodenus seventeen years. In
his reign Cyrus, the son ofCam
byses, invaded the country of the
Babylonians. Nabodenus went
out to give him battle, but was
defeated, and betook himself to
flight: and Cyrus reigned at Ba-
byloh nine years. He was killed,
however, in another battle, which
took place in the plain of Daas.
After him reigned Cambyses
eight years; then Darius thirty-
six years; after him Xerxes and
the other kings of the Persian
line.—Eu. Ar. Chron. pp. 41,
42. 44, 45.
Digitized by G o o g l e
C H A L D E A N FRAGMENTS. 63
OF SENECHERIB AND HIS SUCCESSORS:
FROM ABYDENUS.
E o d e m tempore vicessimus
quintus utique Sinecherib
ipse ex regibus vix demum
inventus est, qui Babylonem
sub ditionem redigens sube-
git, et ad litus maris Ciliciae
Grsecorum classem profliga-
tam depressit; condiditque
templuro Athenarum, statuas
aereas erexit, litterisque sane,
inquit, suam fortitudem exa-
ravit; et Tarsum ad figuram
et similitudinem Babylonis
aedificavit; ut Tarsum Cyd-
nus flumen interflueret, Eu-
phratis nimirum more Baby
lonem interfluentis.
Ex ordine autem post eum
Nergillus regnavit, qui a filio
Adramelo est interemptus:
et ipsum quoque frater ejus
Axerdis ex eodem patre,
non autem ex eadem matre,
occidit; et exercitum perse-
quutus in Byzantinorum ur-
bem includit. Qui primus
mercenaries milites sibi col-
legit; quorum unus Pytha
goras fuit, Chaldaeorum sa-
pientiae discipulus. Axerdis
autem ASgyptum partesque
At the same time the twenty-
fifth who was Senecherib can
hardly be recognized among the
kings. It was he who subjected
the city of Babylon to his power,
and defeated and sunk a Grecian
fleet upon the coast of Cilicia.
He built also a temple at Athens
and erected brazen statues, upon
which he engraved his own ex
ploits. And he built the city of
Tarsus after the plan and like
ness of Babylon, that the river
Cydnus should flowthrough Tar
sus, in the same manner as the
Euphrates intersected Babylon.
Next in order after him
reigned Nergillus who was as
sassinated by his son Adrame-
lus: and he also was slain by
Axerdis (his brother by the
same father, but of a different
mother,) and his army pursued
and blockaded in the city of
Byzantium. Axerdis was the
first that levied mercenary sol
diers, one of whom was Pytha
goras a follower of the wisdom
of the Chaldaeans : he also re
duced under his dominion Egypt
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
64 C H A L D E A N FRAGMENTS.
Syriae inferioris in suam po-
testatem redegit; ex qua
Sardanapallus quoque extitit.
Post quem Saracus in As-
syrios regnavit: et quum
compertum habuisset, multi-
tudinem barbarorum maxi-
mam e mari exisse, ut im-
petum faceret, Busalossorum
ducem confestim Babylonem
misit. Ule autem consilio re-
bellionis inito, Amuhean As-
tyagis Medi families Princi-
pis filiam Nabuchodrossoro
suo filio uxorem despondit.
Ac deinde protinus discedens
accelerat aggredi Ninum, id
est, urbem Ninive. Cum
autem de his omnibus cer-
tior est factus Saracus Rex,
concremavit. regiam aulam
Evoriti.-j- Nabuchodrossorus
verb accipiens regni imperi-
um, valido muro Babylonem
cinxit.
and the country of Cselo-Syria>
from whence came Sardanapal
lus.*
After him Saracus reigned
over the Assyrians, and when he
was informed that a very great
multitude of barbarians had
come up from the sea to attack
him, he sent Busalossorus as his
general in haste to Babylon.
But he, having with a treason
able design obtained Amuhean,
the daughter of Astyages the
prince of the Medes, to be
affianced to his son Nabucho
drossorus, marched straightways
to surprise the city of Ninus,
that is Nineveh. But when
Saracus the king was apprized
of all these proceedings he burnt
the royal palace. And Nabucho
drossorus succeeded to the em
pire and surrounded Babylon
with a strong wall.—Eu. A t .
Chron. 53.
* The name Sardanapallus is indiscriminately applied to various persons.
Here perhaps Saracus may be intended; but from the fragment p. 59, most
probably Busalossorus, i. e. Nabopolassar. The passage then in the text may
refer to the dominion (potestatem) of Axerdis, “ from which Sardanapallus
revolted.”
f The Armenian Editor in a note complains of the obscurity of this passage
in the original, and thinks it may be translated “ Condonavit reglam aulam
Evoriti,” entrusted the palace to some officer named Evorites. In some authors
the daughter of Astyages is named Aroites: and it might possibly refer to her,
if the word were read in conjunction with the subsequent sentence. See Frag,
p. 59.
Digitized by Google
CH ALDEAN FRAGMENTS. 65
OF BELUS AND THE ASSYRIAN EMPIRE:
FROM CASTOR.
Be l u s , inquit, rex erat As-
syriorum: et sub eo Cyclopes
Jovi decertanti adversus Ti-
tanos, per fulgura fulminaque
ignea opem in praelio tulerunt.
Eo autem tempore Titanorum
reges agnoscebantur; quorum
unus erat Ogygus rex. Paucis
vero inteijectis, prosequitur,
dicens: Gigantes in Deos irru-
entes, perempti sunt, auxilium
Diis ferentibus Hercule et
Dionyso, qui ex Titanis erant.
Belus de quoanteadiximus,
vitam finivit, quin et Deus ha
bitus est. Post quern Ninus
imperavit Assyriis annis Ell.
Hie uxorem duxit Semirami-
dem. Post eumque Setniramis
ipsa in Assyrios regnavit annis
x lii. Deinde vero Zames, qui
etiam Ninyas. (Et continuo
singulos Assyriorum reges,qui
post eos fuerunt, in ordinem
redigens, ad. Sardanapallum
usque recenset, cunctos nomi-
natim commemorando: quo
rum etiam nos utique nomina,
Bel u s (says Castor) was king of
the Assyrians; and under him
the Cyclops assisted Jupiter with
thunder-bolts and lightnings in
his contest with the Titans. At
that time there were kings ofthe
Titans, one ofwhomwasOgygus.
(After a short digression he pro
ceeds to say, that) the Giants, in
their attempted inroad upon the
Gods, were slainbythe assistance
of Hercules and Dionysus, who
were themselves of the Titan
race.
Belus, whom we have men
tioned above, after his death was
esteemed a God. After him, Ni
nus reigned over the Assyrians
fifty-two years. He married Se-
miramis, who, after his decease,
reigned over the Assyrians forty-
two years. Then reigned Zames,
who is Ninyas. (Then he enu
merates each of the successive
Assyrian kings in order, and
mentions them all, down to Sar-
danapajlus, by their respective
names : whose names, and the
length of their reigns, we shall
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
65- SUPPLEM ENTAL
regnique tempora paulo post
adponemus. Siquidera et ille
in Canone suo his verbis de
ipsis scribit).
Primo Assyriorum reges di-
gessimus, initium a Bels fa-
cientes: quum vero ipsius reg-
ni annos vix eerto traditos ha-
beamus, nomen solummodo
commemoravimus: sed tamen
chronologiae principium aNino
duximus et in alterum Ninum,
qui regnum a Sardanapallo
accepit, desinimus: utpote hoc
pacto perspicuum esset tam
universi temporis, quam sin-
gulorum regum(temporis)spa-
tium; hoc itaque modo reperi-
tur tempus annorum m , du-
centorum et octoginta.
also give presently. Castor men
tions them in his canon in the
following words.*)
We have first digested into a
canon the kings of the Assyrians,
commencing with Belus: but
since we have no certain tra
dition respecting the length of
his reign, we have merely set
down his name, and commenced
the chronological series from Ni-
nus; and have concluded it with
another Ninus, who obtained the
empire after Sardanapallus; that
in thismanner the whole length of
the time, as well as of the reigns
of each king, might be plainly set
forth. Thus it will be found,
that the complete sum of the
years amounts to 1280.—Eus.
A r. p. 81.
* The passage above is thus cited by Synceilus, p. 206.
• . • . tvg irov xot) K&arwp in Ta» xav6vi ovrou Qijr/ii cJ8«.
rifcuTous /xlv ou> rods ’Aaavfhvs ftocffiKiTg xarirfyot/in, tt)j> yuiv a ^r)> anrb BijXou
iri7coir)ju(vo\jf. Tu ra tt}; BafftXt/ba aJroD *t»j, /ur) irocpa$t$6aQou aoKp&g tou
fo6fxaT0g yuvij/uovitfoyiuv, ti)» 8i yfovoyfaip/as a^o N/*oy xa)
xaraK^yo/xty lit) N 7>ov rbv 8<a8i£dtM«yov rr)p (HaaiAifav jra^a 2«p8a»»ajrdtXou.. . •
The conclusion also is thus given by Synceilus, p. 168.
T if K d o ro fi (aolKXot otxoXou^aas (EyT^jfros) o5 xou fxaprjpttz* irotf^yocyt cf.aic "t>j
/p&axouaa* to us ’Aaavplojv $aaiKtig ap£ou. . . .
Digitized by Google
CHALDjEAN FRAGMENTS. 66
OF THE ASSYRIAN EMPIRE:
FROM VELLEIUS PATERCULUS AND AEMILIUS SURA.
I n s e o u e n t i temporeimperium
Asiaticum ab Assyriis, qui id
obtinuerant annis m l x x , trans-
latum est ad Medos ab hinc
annis ferine d c c c l x x . Quippe
Sardanapalum eorum regem
mollitiis fluentem, et nimium
felicem malo suo, tertio et tri-
cessimo loco ab Nino et Se-
miramide, qui Babylona con-
diderant, natum, ita ut semper
successor regni paterni foret
iilius, Arbaces Medus imperio
vitaque privavit.......jEmilius
Sura de annis populi Romani:
“ Assyrii principes omnium
gentium rerum potiti sunt,
deinde Medi, postea Persae,
deinde Macedones. Exinde
duobus regibus, Philippo et
Antiocho, qui a Macedonibus
oriundi erant, haud multo post
Carthaginem subactam devic
es summa imperii ad populum
Romanum pervenit. Inter hoc
tempus, et initium Nini regis
Assyriorum, qui princeps re
rum potitus, intersunt anni
MDCCCCXCV.”
T h e Asiatic empire was subse
quently transferred from the As
syrians, who had held it 1070
years, to the Medes, from this
time, for a period of 870 years.
For Sardanapalus, the king of
the Assyrians, a man wallowing
in luxury, being the thirty-third
from Ninus and Semiramis, the
founders of Babylon, from whom
the kingdom had passed in a
regular descent from father to
son, was deprived of his empire,
and put to death by Arbaces the
Mede.......Aimilius Sura also, in
his annals of the Roman people,
says, “ That the Assyrian princes
extended their empire over all
nations. They were succeeded
by the Medes, then by the Per
sians, then by the Macedonians
and shortly afterwards by two
kings Philip and Antiochus, of
Macedonian origin, who, not long
after the destruction ofCarthage,
were conquered by the Romans,
who then obtained the empire of
the world. To this time, from the
beginning of the reign of Ninus,
king of the Assyrians, who first
obtained the empire, there has
elapsed a period of 1995 years.”
—Hist. 1. c. 6.
Google
O
Digitized b
66 - CHALD/EAN FRAGMENTS.
OF THE CHALDEAN OBSERVATIONS:
FROM
Anticjcides in Jigypto inve-
nisse quendam nomineMenona
tradit xv annis ante Phoro-
neum antiquissimum Graecise
regem: idque monumentis ap-
probare conatur. E diverso
Epigenes apud Babylonios
d c c x x annorum observationes
siderum coctilibus laterculis
inscriptas docet, gravis auctor
in primis : qui minimum Be-
rosuset Critodemusc c c c l x x x *
annorum. Ex quo apparet-j-
aeternus literarum usus.
FROM
Contemnamus etiam Baby
lonios, et eos, qui e Caucaso
coeli signa servantes, numeris
et motibus stellarum cursus
persequuntur: condemnemus,
inquam, hos aut stultitiae, aut
vanitatis, aut impudentiae, qui
c c c c l x x millia annorum, ut
ipsi dicunt, monumentis com-
prehensa continent.
PMNIUS.
Ant ic l ide s relates that they (let
ters) were invented in Egypt by
a personwhose name was Menon,
fifteen years before Phoroneus
the most ancient king of Greece:
and he endeavours to prove it by
the monuments. On the con
trary, Epigenes, a writer of first-
rate authority, informs us, that
among theBabylonianswere pre
served observations of the stars,
inscribed upon baked tiles, ex
tending to a period of 720 years.
Berosus and Critodemus, who are
the most moderate in their cal
culations, nevertheless extend
the period of the observations to
480* years. Whence may be in
ferred the eternal use of letters
among them.—Lib. VII. c. 56.
CICERO.
We must also contemn the Ba
bylonians, and those who, in the
reigion of Caucasus, pretend to
have observed the heavens and
courses of the stars: we must
condemn them, I say, of folly, or
of vanity, or of impudence, who
assert that they have preserved
uponmonumentsobservationsex
tending back during an interval
of 470,000 years.—De Divin.
* Nonaginta M. and Ch. f Appareret, sternum literarum usum, Ch.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
THE
DYNASTIES OF THE KINGS
C H A L D E A , A SSY RIA , M ED IA , P E R S IA ,
TH E B E S, AND E G Y PT.
K
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
67
DYNASTY OF CHALDEAN KINGS.
01 XaXtaToi itpSto< iinjyoptv-
acm (avrobi; @a<ri\eT(, ay npa-
i<
H
Eiyx,0
f’*I ®
“?
* N
c-
ifHaatKcvceBafivXuytf
V / +
(Tv ry« •+
Xasfiadav . ifiaurlhevo*
X
uiui<
rfa\o<
§cnjJj'^.
XaXialay y . i@curi\tv<Te
n zpof erf] x*7.
Xakbatvv hr. ifHao-fawe
NfX^r’xll ivripy.
g XaXiaUav e'. Ifiaa-foanre
N
djSttf^f cnj/J
.rj'.
XaXhalay {-'. ifiaalXevaxv
’0 »/j9aXXo{ fnj
XaXSa/«> 5*. i@OGl\twt
lafypoi** h*i j n / . f t
T h e Chaldaeans were the first that ^
assumed the title of Kings.
Of these the first was Evechius
who is known to us by the name of
Nebrod (Nimrod) he reigned at Ba
bylon 6 years and one-third.
2. Chomasbelus .. 7J years.
From the foundation 13 years.
3. Porus .. .. 35 years.
48 years.
4. Nechubes.. .. 43 years.
91 years.
5. Nabius .. .. 48 years.
139 years.
6. Oniballus .. .. 40 years.
179 years.
7. Zinzerus .. .. 46 years.
225 years.
Syncell. 169.
It is to be observed that some of these names occur again as
the immediate successors of Nabonasar.
* EufaotOf, A. B.—Eu^oof, Go. Sc. Eu. f NtuBfwZ. Go.
$ y° - (i) A. B.—Sc. and Go. omit it.
§ Xoo^tiiff/SoKof Vuig.—X o v / i B . —Xojudv/SoXo; Sc. Eu.
|| Sc. Eu. ^1 A
/3<of Go. Sc. Eu.
** Z/vs'p; Go. Sc. Eu. f | fjLi. Go. Sc. Eu.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
DYNASTY OF THE ARABIAN KINGS
OF CHALDEA.
A P A B O N j3a<n\euv r£» fte-
Ta toi>{ XaXBai'av (Scuri-
Aei{.
rflv a'. MapSoxeVr7j{ 1/3a -
<
rl\€
v
<
T
e
verri/*
€
#
.
’Apafibiv 0 . ((3aat\tv<re
MapSaxo* enj /
x
'
.
’
A p a fiu v y . IpcurtXcvae 2 i-
o’l/xopSeuo0{* eTtj k
i
j
*
.
’
A pdcfiav S'. cfSaatXcvtrc
NajSio;"!" ?Tij A£'.
’
A pa[3uv e . tfiuo-'iXevo-e
H aparvof eri) j
t
x
'
.'
’Apapwv i^a<rl\tv<re
Naj8o'»»fi6/9o«J enj xc1
.
A f te r the six first Cbaldaean kings
reigned, reigned the following Ara
bian kings of Chaldaea.
1. Mardocentes .. 45 years.
From the foundation 45 years.
2. Mardacus .. .. 40 years.
85 years.
3. Sisimordacus .. 28 years.
113 years.
4. Nabius .. .. 37 years.
150 years.
5. Paramus .. .. 40 years.
190 years.
6. Nabonnabus .. 25 years.
215 years.
• S
icrifiig
ixito
iSc. Eu.—Z
ia
i/itp
S
a
xo
;Go. f ri&
io;Sc. Eu.
1 N
aj9otfvva/Sof Dind.
Digitized by L.ooQle
£<;
OF THE ASSYRIAN KINGS :
FROM ABYDENUS*
“ Fu it , inquit, Ninus,
Arbeli (filius); qui Cha-
ali; qui Arbeli; qui Ane-
b i; qui Babii; qui Beli
regis Assyriorum.”
N in u s (says Abydenus) was the son
of Arbelus; who was the son of
Chaalus, the son of Anebus, the son
of Babius, the son of Belus king of
the Assyrians.
• The passage above cited from Abydenus in the Armenian edition of
Eusebius’s Chronicle places Ninus the sixth in descent from Belus, introducing
the same names in an inverted order, that occur in the following Assyrian
dynasties of Syncellus and Africanus (see p. 70) between Teutseus the twenty-
eighth and Dercyllus the thirty-fourth. The Editor in a note produces some
passages from Moses Choronensis and others to shew that such was the general
opinion among the Armenians.
Digitized by L x O O Q l e
10
DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS:
FROM AFRICANUS.
SYNCELLUS.
A22TPION a,'. ifiaai'Mva-t Of the Assyrian kings the 1st was
BtjXo? €T1) Vf‘. Belus who reigned 55 years.
jS'. N i»t try yf? . 2 . N inus............. . 52 years.
y . Zffitpaptii; <tij [iff. 3. Semiramis .. . . 42.
V. N<«**{,*0 K
O
UZcfftl?,’!' 4. Ninuas who is called Zamis
i/w$ Ntvou xai Scjuipet- the son of Nmus and Semira-
/**&
>{>fTl) X
T)'. mis : hereigned 38 years.
1 V« V >/
c * Ap€iOf try A . 5. Arius ............. . 30 years.
5-'. ’ApclXlOf 6T») f*. 6 . Aralius............. 40.
?• Hep{ij{ frtj X'. 7. Xerxes............. 30.
>j'. 'Apfjta.fj.i^lp^i J erij X«/. 8 . Armamithres . 38.
S ’. BqXap^oc fr>) Xf'. 9. Belochus .. . . 35.
1 . BaXaio; “tij jS
’. 10. Balaeus............ . 52.
((*'. 2cS(D{ £T1) ». § 1 1 . Sethos............. . 50.
1(9". Ma/zu&o; fTi) X
*. 12. Mamuthos .. . 30.
<y. 'AaypM t, || fTt] Kij'-H 13. Aschalius .. . . 28.
(S'. 2<paipo( £T1) x/3'.** 14. Sphaerus . . . . 22.
if'. Ma/*uXo{ (TIJ X
’. 15. Mamulus . . . . 30.
* r. ZmapSltui yy en; pt^. 16. Spartheos . . . . 42.
* N/vua; hr) Arj* Go. f Z&fir)s Go.
J *A^fxa/x^r)( B. § X/J'. Go. || B«o^4X«0f.
x# Go. m. *• X
I)’. Go. m.
f t ZxafWoif Go.— axafilog B.
igitized b y C j O O ^ l c
V
DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS:
FROM EUSEBIUS.
8CAUGER.
A22TPION i Batri'Xeva-tv a .
BijXof enj k '.
f } \ NiVa{ tTij .
y . Itiilp a fU i «T)j /
*
j
S
'
.
8'. Nik*z< oxouZapjc vU(
NtVov xau Zefiipdu.au
V . /
€
T
)
JX)j.
« . e r i j a .
r'. ’
ApdXio; e-P) /*
’
.
S'. H ip fa I n ] V.
i
j
'
. ’ApiAanfoprii £T»j X
i
j
'
.
S'. B p * x o f h n 'V.
BaXawjf t r y vj9\
t a , ’
AXt^8«<* £Ti} X|9',
i
j
8
'
. Ma^cvS^ t*nj X'.
iy'. MaT^aXio?-
!
"fTij mf'.
(
S
'
. 2ifxup*; er>i xfi’.
(t. MdiuvXof €T1] X'.
(
{
-
,. ’
Z v a f& a a J ”
-
r
i
)X'.
A R M E N IA N .
I. Nin d s , quern primum universse •
Asiae, exceptis Indis, imperasse
dicunt annis h i .
ii. Semiramis .. .. ann. x l ii
h i. Zanies, qui Ninyas .. x x x v iii
iv. A riu s.......................... xxx
v. Aralius qui Amyrus .. x l
v i. Xerxes qui et Ba-
laeus .......................xxx
v ii. Amramithes . . . . .. x x x v iii
vm. Belochus........................ xxxv
ix. Balaeas ......................xn
x. Aladas ......................xxxn
xi. Manrithus ............... xxx
x ii. Machchalaleus .. .. xxx .
x iii. Sphaerus..................... xxn
xiv. M amilus.........................xxx
xv . Sparethus ...................x l
• SfScu; Afr. f 'AryiXits Afr.
t J a -o p & M f i t j j /iff. Afr.
b
y
Google
72 DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS.
SYNCELLUS.
iC
f. ’AaTtara8i){ «tij Xij'. 17. Ascatades .. . . 38 years.
hj’. ’Atcovrijc ertj jxt. 18. Amantes .. . 45.
& . BrjXo^ot; err] kg'. 19. Belochus .. . . 25.
x‘. BaXarapiji* eT)j X'. 20. Balatores .. . 30.
xa'. KafAUfthrueT)) X
*. 21. Lamprides .. . : 30.
xjS'• Sutrapw err; x/ 22. Sosares............ . 20.
xy . Aaf/.'Kparjs eryj • 23. Latnpraes .. . 30.
x8\ riavuaf ety}(A
€• 24. Pannas............. 45.
Xe'. SlZvapiMS 6T1
J K
jS
”. 25. Sosarmus .. . 22.
Xf‘. M
i3fpa~0{ ert] x£. 26. Mithraeus .. . 27.
< . TevrafM^f b xal Tan- 27. Teutamus—who is called by
Tavri$ 'itapd t uri Xe- some Tautanes : he reigned 32
yofxevoq, €Tyj X{¥. years.
xyj. Tetrraiof errj /xS'. 28. Teutaeus .. .. 44.
xS'. ,A
/>aj8$jX
o$”
|'' eTy
j ftf? . 29. Arabelus .. .. 42.
A
*. XdXctOi; tTT) fA
€. 30. Chalaus .. .. 45.
\a . "Ave)9o$ erij X)/, 31. Anebus .. .. 38.
X81
. BajSio; €Ti) X?'. 32. Babius............... 37.
ty '................+ «T1J X'. 33.............................. 30.
X8'. Aepxvkoi; eT)) //. 34. Dercylus .. .. 40.
Xe#. Ew7rax/xij^ § e-nj A?/* 35. Eupacmes.. .. 38.
Xf'. AaoT&ewjf ?T)j fte'. 36. Laosthenes 45.
X£. Tlepridirif err; >
•'. 37. Pertiades .. .. 30.
Xij/, *0(ppara7og errj x a . 38. Ophrataeus 21.
XSr‘. ’E^exe^c eT)) r- || 39. Ephecheres 6.1T
/*. ‘Axpaydtnis try /x^1
. 40. Acraganes 42.
fxa 0S»o; o Xey<J/«yo; Koy- 41. Thonus surnamed Concolerus,
koXepo$, *EXXvjvktt) Xapdava- by the Greeks Sardanapalus: he
iraXXoj ** er>) x \ -H- reigned 20 years.
^aphavdiroXXoiTapa-lv cx- Sardanapalus built the cities of
* BotAtTGo
§ EV
K
&
X
fX
Y
MGo,
IT 52.
f t Go.
f ’Afotfi/Xoc B. J ©iva»c Sc.
|| •& Go. m.—Sc.
•• '2*fi$<uiint\oi, VuJg.
Digitized by U o o Q l e
DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS. 73
SCALIGER. ARMENIAN.
1£*. "AmtaTa&jj <nj Xtj'. xvi. Ascatades .. ann. x l
«j'. 'Afujmi< enj it*. ' xvn. A m in tas................ x lv
itf. ByXoxfif enj xvin. Belochus . . . . x lv
x'. BaXaro^of* It ij X'. x ix . Balatores . . . _xxx
xa. Aapnpikiit en| X'. xx. Lamprides .. .. xxxn
x/S'. lua-dprn exij x’. xxi. Sosmares . . . . vm
xy. Aapeirpaw tnj X
’. xxn. Lampares . . . . xxx
*8'. Tlayrla;-f- trtj //!.J XXIII. P a n n ia s ....................XLII
xe'. Idtrappoi; en; xjS"^ XXIV. SosamiUS.................... XIX
xr'. MiSparo? 7nj x?, xxv. Mithreus . . . . xxvn
x£. Tcvrapuif o xa} Tec- xxvi. Teutamus . . . . XXXII
ravrft err/ \j3’.
xij'. TeuTaio* «t ij ^8'. xxvii. Teutaeus . . . . . . x l
x!y. e»as7o« || cti)x'. xxviii. T hinaeus..............xxx
X'. Af'ptuXoj ?T5j //. xxix. D e ru s u s .................x l
Xa'. ’Evxiixfttu eryj Xl)'. XXX. Eupalmes................ XXXVIII
X
jS*. Aaso-Srenj; t rij pc'. xxxi. Laosthenes . . . . x l v
Xy. IlufnaSijc^f £T)j X'. x x x ii. Peritiades . . .. xxx
X&\ ’O ippaTaTot** t r y x a !. xxxm.^Ophrataeus .. .. xxi
Xe'. e-nj v/3’. xxxiv. Ophatanes...............L
Xr'. ‘Axpaydvris e n j jixj9'. xxxv. Acrazanes...............x l i i
. x?'. 05»o?oXeyo'f*evo{Ko»- xxxvi. Sardanapalles . . . . xx
xo'Xepoj 'EXXijwotJ 2ap8ava-
*aXo{ enj h'.
05to?, etr^aro? yryoni? Simul universa Assyriorum Dynas-
’Ao-mpia* f3a<n\(iif, impripev tia juxta certos Scriptores (perdu-
ajcarras roif vpl dvrw ravit) annos mccxl. juxta alios autem
* BaKar6prig Afr.—B1XX1air&pris Sc. m. f HotyvCag Afr.
X A
**'. Afr. § Afr.
|| In Scaliger’s list of Africanus, he also introduces between Teutaeus and
Thinaeus—
UvptTiii&ris Afr.
x$\ 'A
fa
#
>
)X
o
f
X. X
dtX
aO
f
Xa'. ’
'Ava/So;
X
jS'.
ft ’Axpax&prie Afr.—’OxpafttTnjf Sc. m.
tf-
/“*
'•
Xl)'.
Af.—See p. 69.
•• OQparhris Sc. m.
Digitized by v ^ o o g l e
74 DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS.
SYNCELLUS.
T
<«* 1
tal
x
o
'X
tije»pu$V
l*
*
p
<
p
.
'H 'hravpttn ficusi\tla
«
1
{t!X
o
S
o
A
lx
ivK
O
IT
/A
J
K
^
H
« t o $ S i a p w V a o - a try
/ x i ^ duo row K&Tfxiwiv f/vn?
eT
ovf.
Tarsus and Anchiale in one day.
The Assyrian empire founded a .m .
3216. flourished 1460 years and was
overthrown a .m . 4675.
• fxritir Vulg.— Sxien Se.
Digitized by Google
DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS. 75
SC A U G E R . A RM EN IA N .
Tpvtf/Tjj k o i paSvpurf. 'A y - annos m c c c . Thonnus Concolerus, qui
XpaAm *ai Tapa-'m b yiUp? Greece Sardanapallus vocatur ab
ifet/Aaro. T&o« vna Arbace et Belesio devictus, seipsum
’A
p
jS
oS
x
o
u tow M
ijSou nx5j&
fl{ igni tradidit: a quo ad primam
IMrya\-i)v mpAv riv re Olympiadem (sunt) anni x l.— Eus.
Xfwov, *a) tovapyvpevavay- Chrotl. Ar. p. 98.
r a , % pif So tow toi? t^ v jSow i-
Xikvji/ itrSyT a avcurav lir
i
Tawrijv iirupeva-t. x a i T « (
jraXXax/8«i{, xairoii{f£xow'xow{
nvyyX tiaa^ e/; rov in /Airy t5
iruppy xaTarxeucarueycv oixox,
a/ue Tovroij aecwrivcavroV T(
x a ! T a (S atr/X fia x a T e x a w tx .
e 7
t « ij t£ » 'Aampluy ficuri-
Xela flf t w ( M
rjSevf fwnjvi-
—£*<. Chron. Se.
DYNASTY OF ASSYRIAN KINGS *
A s s y r io r u m primum regem
scribunt Bilum, quem et ab As-
syriis et Phcenices et Persi
Deum vocaverunt. Hunc Dium
Graeco nomine interpretave-
runt.
i. Bilus vero primus in As-
syrios regnavit annos l x i i , et
partem Asiae.
II. Post haec regnavit Ninus
annos lii. Iste condidit Nine-
vem civitatem Assyriorum, et
veniens in Asia vocatus est
Picus.
h i. Post quem Semiramis,
uxor ejus annos xtn. Hanc
Ream vocaverunt propter ejus
multam atrocitatem.
iv. Post hunc Zinas, reg
navit annos xxxvm.
v. Arius xxx.
T h ey write that the first king
of the Assyrians was Bilus,
whom the Assyrians, Phoeni
cians, and Persians, call God.
In the Greek language they
call him Dius.
1. Bilus, who was the first
king, reigned over theAssyrians
and part of Asia 62 years.
2. Afterwards reigned Ninus
52 years. He founded Nine
veh, a city of the Assyrians,
and coming into Asia was called
Picus.
3. After him Semiramis, his
wife, 42 years. She was called
Rea on account of her manifold
atrocities.
4. After her Zinas reigned
38 years.
5. Arius reigned 30 years.
* This Catalogue is given by Scaliger from a Chronological compilation “ ab
homine barbaro, inepto, Hellenismi et Latinitatis imperitissimo.” It is possibly a
mutilated copy of Castor’s Canon, as it ends with the second Ninus. See p. 65-.
Digitized by G o o g l e
DYNASTY OF THE ASSYRIAN KINGS. 77
vi. Aranus annos .. x l .
v ii. Xerxes, qui et Balleus
X XX .
viii. Mamithrus .. x x x v ii.
ix. Bilochus .. xxxv.
x. Balleus .. .. tii.
xi. Altallus .. .. xxxv.
x ii. Mamithus .. xxx.
xiii. Itafferus .. .. xx.
xiv. Mamythus .. xxxv.
xv . Spareus .. .. x l .
x v i. Ascatagus .. x l .
x v ii. Amintus . . . . l .
x v iii. Actosai et Semiramis
femina ............... x x iii.
xix. Bilochus .. .. xxv.
xx. Belleroparus xxxiv.
xxi. Lampridus .. xxxn.
xxii. Posarus .. .. xx.
x x iii. Lamparus .. xxx.
x x iv . Paunius et Zeus x l v .
xxv. Sosarmus .. .. xx.
xxvi. Mithreus .. xxxv.
xxvii. Tautelus .. xxxn.
Anno isto tricessimo se-
cundo conflxus est Sol
(Ilion?) ab Acheis.
x x v iii. Euteus annos .. x i.
x x ix . Thineus .. x x ix .
x x x . Cercillus '.. x l .
x x x i. Eupalus .. xxxvi.
x x x ii. Lausthenus . . x l v .
x x x iii. Peritiadus .. xxx.
xxxiv. Ophrateus .. xx.
x x x v . Ophratanus .. l .
x x x v i . Acrapazus .. x l .
x x x v ii. Tonos Conceleros qui
vocatur Grace Sardanapalus
annos ..................... xxx.
x x x v iii. Ninus .. .. x ix .
Simul reges x x x ix antiqui
Assyriorum perseverantes an
nos mille quadringentos tri-
ginta. Ab istis autem in
prima Olympiada, annos l x v ii
Assyriorum regnum.
Altogether these thirty-nine
ancient kings of the Assyrians
reigned 1430 years. And from
them to the first Olympiad the
kingdom of the Assyrians con
tinued sixty-seven years.
Digitized by Google
CHALDEAN DYNASTY OF
NABONASAR.
THE ECCLESIASTICAL CANON.
TA av'o ZdXfiavaaap, ijT
oi N a - T h e ecclesiastical computation of
fiovaa-apw, ?t>j wui tijv titxAij- the years from Salmanasar who is
o-iao-Tixijv 3T0
ix«*Wi» c o f Kvpov, the same as Nabonasar to Alexan-
xal (itena ’AXeJavSpou tc5 M a- der of Macedon.
suSoVo;.
a'. N
a(So»£w
rapo{ox«t 2 aX- 1. Nabonasar who is called in
luuiaaap* iv r5 ypcuffi ScriptureSalmanasar, reigned
X e y o /M y o f frrj x<': 25 years. 25.
^ e r i j >
j/. 2 . Nabius 8 ............... 33.
7 ’. X/»5ijf«(xaiIIC/)o{6T)jf'. 3. Chinzerus and Po-
rus 5 ..................... 38.
S'. ,IX.vXa7a;'|’ erij 4. Ilulaeus 5 ............... 43.
6 . MapSoxe/xwaSoj J i/9*. 5. Mardocempadus 12 55.
/ >. \ /
r • Apyccavos ery \ e • 6 . Arceanus 5 .. .. 60.
5’. ’A
jS
cK
T
^
X
fO
T
O
JfT
)J,3'. 7. Interregnum 2 .. .. 62.
1\ . BljXiAOf§ 6
T
7
J•y^. 8 . Belilus 3 ............... 65.
y • *A'irapava&iO'o$ e r r j 9. Aparanadisus 6 .. .. 71.
i*. ’Hfiye'^aXo; || c t «{ a '. 1 0 . Erigebalus 1 . . . . 72.
ta . Mecrrj(r</xo^5axo<^[ 6T178;. 1 1 .- Mesesimordacus 4 .. 76.
• 2(t\/xQ voiffoip Go. f 'IXXouXowbf Vulg.—l \o \a ib s B.
J M
ap$ox«yu»-<£$oxoff Vulg. § Go.
1
1 ’Ip>jy(/3«AAoj Go. Mn7*
{
7(x^Sax0f A.—Miffrcnui^Saxoi Go.
Digitized by Google
CHALDEAN DYNASTY OF
NABONASAR.
THE ASTRONOMICAL CANON.
TA duo tiaftoyaodpov cnj, tov T h e A stronom ical Canon o f th»
Kai SaXputyaudp,* J
SatnXcaf years from N abonasar who is the
XaXticuuv, €«$ *AAe(av8pov t o v sam e as Salm anasar K ing o f the
KTi'rrrm rc \(vn j( nond Toy our- Chaldaeans to the death o f A lex-
TpoyofA.t'MV ycayova. ander th e founder o f th e G reek
dynasty.
a , Nafiovatrdpov Irt) 18'. 1: N abonasarus . . . . 14.
0 . NajS/.t; €Tij 0 . »j-'. 2 . N abios 2 ................... 16.
y . Xiy^ypov xal lUtpov^ 3. C hinzerus and P o ru s
erij *\ xa'. 5 ...................................... 2 1 .
8'* ’IXovXfltAo €TTj c . Xf*\ 4. Ilulaeus 5 ................... 26.
«\ Ma^8ox«jowr«£8ot/ ctij 5. M ardocem padus 12 38.
• X)j'.
f ’. ’Apx«a»oii enj ^xy'. 6. A rceanus 5 . . ' . . .'. 43.
5”
. ’AjSaw/Xtyrof ?t >
) j3\ 7. Interreg n u m 2 . . . . 45.
))'. B))X/j3ovJ tn j y \ (Hij'- 8. B elibus 3 ................... 48.
$ . 'ABapavaSiVou § ?tij 9. A paranadisus 6 54.
r • X .
i. ’UpiyejS4Xou|| fT0{ a ’, 1 0 . E rigebalus 1 . . . . 55.
I«\ M
cOTJO'J/XOpfofaflU €TVJ 11. M esesim ordacus 4 . . 59.
y. »&'.
• laXfxovaaap Go. f no-fou B. m.—nCgov A.—ntf/J/Joti Go.
X BijA/jSou B.—BijX/Sou Go.—BiXifjto: Supra in Dind.
§ 'AiragjavvflS/ao* B.—’ATrofotvaJ/Vou Go. || Go.
Digitized by G oogle
80 C H ALD EA N DYNASTY
T H E ECCLESIASTICAL CANON.
i/S
*
. 'Afiaa-iXevros aX
X
c;enj
V
*
»y. ’i(7a^
»y8 r»of* erij iy.
1 2 . Interregnums 84.
13. Isarindinus 13 97.
*
8*
. 2 ao0-&
o
u
%
iV
o
f*
j* €T
ij 14. Saosduchinus 9 .. 106.
it*. K
iw
;X
a8 avo;J enj <
8*
. 15. Cineladanus 14 1 2 0 .
1^. NajS«raXaa-apof § trij
■
tu
rf.
16. Nabopalasarus 2 1 .. 141.
rtf. Haf3ovxl<fto>i<Tvp\\ vlo( «tij 17. Nabuchodonosor his
n - son 43..................... 184.
irf, Ev€iXab M
apoSa^ €*n
j
J
18. Euilad Marodach 5 189,
iS*. NipiyXyaccptf** 5 xa} 19. Niriglesarus who is
BaXraaap enj y. Baltasar 3............... 192.
x
*
* N
aj9ova8iO
$oxa* ’A x r v a - 2 0 . Nabonadius who is
y y ( AapeToq •j"
j"’Aatrovrj- Astyges Darius As-
ptv%% xa) ’A praSeptw suerus and Artax-
err/ iCf. erxes 17 .. .. .. 219:
PERSIAN DYNASTY.
xa). K
C
f»{ TlffffSy npuTOf 2 1 . Cyrus the first king
/9a<nXtl{ eni Xa1
. of Persia 31.
x@
K Kanfiva-rji vlbf Kilpov 22. Cambyses the son of
*
f I
€T
V
! 1f. Cyrus 8 ............... 39.
xy>. Muyoi aZcfapt) 2 /xip- 23. The Magi two bro-
8 i0 {§§ xa) Havfyvryf • thers Smerdius and
/M
jvcK Pausoutes 7 months.
xS
*. Aapfiof vib( "T<rrinntv\111 24. Darius the son of
?T
i) xy. Hystaspes 36 .. .. 75.
* * ’lamotpibrivhe Vulg. f bofyiog Go.
| KHfYi\a&
coas Go. § 'N ct@ oicaAotaaapo; B.
|| Not/So^oSov^trwf B. Eu7$av &ctpv)(&& A.—*Ej8<8ok» M*fo8«^ Go.
* • Vtgtty^ffapOf Go.— NrjfiyXJjaapof A. B.
f t Aipaiof A. B.— Adffatio; Go. %
%'Aoovfyov A. B.
§§ ’Eyu/fJios B. H
U'Tor&rou A. B.
Google
OF NABONASAR. 81
TH E ASTRONOMICAL CANON.
ifr. 'A.ftcuriKtirroq a W o $
e rtj V - #T-
try. *1(rapivttvw * e r n l y , v ,
18'. "Ectoabovxtycv *j“ ct»j
&. i• •• it&
.
i«\ KiyrjAcM XovJ f t » p y •
t ? . NajScnraX aaapov §
nrarpoq Na/9ov%o8o-
votrup ( t yj n e t, px&\
iCf• 'Sa^OTraXa<rdpov\\t q v
yutl Na^ol^oBoyoVftjp
e r y p y . . . p i? '.
«j'. ’IXXoapoeSdpioii^f «Ttj
I /
7• • • f>•
i& . N i/uycw oX atrapro * *
V I I
ervj € . . • p o f.
x'. NajSovaSiou ro5 x a l
'K tm iy a v c , *tij X§'.
1 2 . Interregnum8 .. ..
IS. Isarindmus IS .. ..
14. Saosduchinus 9
15. Cineladalus 14.. ..
16. Nabopalasarus the
father ofNabuchodo-
nosor 21 ...............
17. Nabopalasaruswho is
Nabuchodonosor 43
18. Illoarudatnus 3 .. ..
19. Nirigasolasarus 5 ..
20. Nabonadius who is
Astyages 34 . . . .
67.
gQ (tS
>
(-•
g9. SX
/io 5
*
.u
-
103.
124.
167.
170.
175.
209.
PERSIAN DYNASTY.
xa!. K
ilpoverr) S'. o
-m
j1
. 2 1 . Cyrus 9 218.
x
y
S
'. Kaf*.fSvrovtx»j if. trxr'. 2 2 . Cambyses 8 . . . . 226.
xy'. baftiov trr\ Xf'. irijS'. 23. Darius 36 ................ 262.
x8\ Scpisu ?T
ij xa. cnry'. 24. Xerxes 2 1 ............... 283.
* 'Io-apniSAou A.—'IaaffijS^vov B.
f ZaocrSou^Al/ Vnlg.—2aoSov%/you B.
1 Km
XocJdXou Go.—Dind. proposes Ki«|XaW«u.
§ Ho$ovxo\aaff&fou B.—Na/faxraXgrff^ou Go.
|| NojSov^oforfa'op Go. 'IXXouopou&
E/rou Go.
•* Nip»jy«ffoXaa(£poo B.—N7)f>jyaffoXaff((pou Go.
M
Go
CH A LD EA N DYNASTY
TH E ECCLESIASTICAL CANON.
«». S e 'fiv i H apdov p j-
y a f * '•*
X
5
J. ’A p r a i c p f a B tp fo v i
/xaKfo'xf'P «*>» tr f- t
*£'• H ip h i vto< 'A p z a iip lo v
tfv*<p.
K if. XtrySiotvof pHjyaf
x&'. AapeTof o N<&8<J ertj
.S'.
X'. ’A p r a h p h i ®M ry/toiy err;
/*'•
Xa'. 'A p T a £ tp £ w vlo(
errj
X/3'. “Afirou abefapcv “Clxov
It
€
T
7
}8.
X*y. Aapetov *y' *Ap<T&[MV ct> j
r*
X8\ ’AXffavSpou MaxeSovs^
f-nj r’.
25. Xerxes the son of
Darius 2 0 months ..
26. Artaxerxes the son
of Xerxes, Longima-
nus 43 . . . . . . . .
27. Xerxes the sonofAr
taxerxes 2 months.
28. Sogdianus 7 months
29. Darius Nothus 19 ..
30. Artaxerxes Mnemon
4 0 .................. ..
31. Ochus the son of Ar-
• taxerxes 5 ...............
32. Arses the brother of
Ochus 4 . . . . ..
33. Darius III. the son of
Arsamus 6 . . . .
34. Alexander of Mace-
don 6 .....................
* tTri Go. in. f /»«'. Go. m.
t N<&om'»/<o; Vulg.—N<&omj»o/ios B.—»4&
os n tifio s librarius.
77.
120.
121.
140.
180.
185.
189.
195.
201.
Digitized by Google
OF NABONASAR. 83
T H E ASTRONOMICAL CANON.
x e \ *Apra£ep£ov a err)
/tec', tx&\
*$•'. A a^f/ou j8 \ rov x a t
No& ov* e n j T p y \
x £ \ *ApTa£ip%ov tieirrepov
u *
€T1J ft5" . r v t j .
x ij'. "O xov ?T)j x a \ w*.
x&'. ’
Sdpov errj ff. mjS .
X '. A aptlov Tptrov toS
x a i 'Ap&dpwv err) j - \ u ij’.
X a '. ‘A\t£dtyi)pov roupuyuA ov ( t v j
r". 1
*8
’.f
• NJpov B.
25. Artaxerxes I. 41. .. 324.
26. Darius II. who is No-
thus 19 343.
27. Artaxerxes II. 46 .. 389.
28. Ochus 21 ................. 410.
29. Sarus 2 412.
30. Darius III. who is
Arsamus 6 ................ 418.
31. AlexandertheGreat 6 . 424.
f a(VQ y.
D :ed by Google
PTOLEIVLEUS’ CANON
FROM THEON.
A2ZTPiaN K
A
1 MHAGN.
KINGS OF THB ASSYRIANS
AND MEDES.
a . NajSovatnrdpov err) »
8 ’. 1 . Nabonassarus . . . . 14.
P', Naftlov f¥.
/
*r« 2 . Nadius 2 ............... 16.
y . Xivfypovxa) Uupovc
/
x a . 3. Chinzirus and Porus
5 ........................... 2 1 .
'Uvyalov (•
i
*r* 4. Iugaeus 5 ............... 26.
€. Map$0X€[ATtc£b0V Ip', Xij‘. 5. Mardocempadus 1 2 38.
'Apxlatov w* 6 . Arcianus 5 . . . . 43.
‘Afiour!\tVTOv nfi-rov 7. Interregnum 2 45.
ft-
!
t" • •
f), BrjXlpov y . 8 . Belibus 3 ................... 48.
y . *
Avpavafitov >#. 9. Apronadius 6 . . . . 54.
i. Pi'yijjSijXoii a!. 1 0 . Rigebelus 1 . . . . 55.
la . MfO-fa-miMfidtKOv 1 1 . Mesessimordacus 4 59.
V. v&'.
iff. ’Aj9ao-/X«uroi) y{. ft'- 1 2 . Interregnum8 .. . . 67.
ty . ’ArraapaHvtv ly . V. 13. Assaradinus 13 80.
itf. Xccoahovxvov k . /• 14. Saosducheus 2 0 1 0 0 .
i€. XwiXahavov xjO'. /)K^. 15. Chuniladanus 2 2 . . 1 2 2 .
if'. Na/SoKoXswcrapou 16. Nabocolassaru8 2 1 . . 143.
/
x a . w*7-
Digitized by Google
FROM NABONASAR TO ANTONINUS. 84
i£. N
ajSoK
oX
ao-a-tfyot: £nj 17. Nabocolassarus 43 186.
i /*
W w
*r-
ii)'. 'Vhtvapoldpuv(S'. pira'.f 18. Iluarodamus 2 .. 188.
iiy. Nipixatro-oXatro-d- 19. Niricassolassarus 4 192.
pov 8*. p l ( f ,
.J
x. NajSo»a8/ou i£. «•&
'. 20. Nabonadius 17 .. 209.
riEPTCN BA2IAEHN.
x a . Ki/'pou Si' €tij. <riv{.
X
j&• K aufivtrov x . § o u r '.
/
xy. A aptiov a . . * & •
x8\ B epiov x a . w '- ll
i
X
€. ‘ApTa£cp{ov a.'.
p a . t kS1.
XT- A a p tlm f i . id '. T/*y.
«? 'A pra£ep£ov ievrepcv
1
p r - TT&'.
xr,'. “c ix ° v x a ‘• Vi.
x s r . ’A putrrov /S'. V lff.
X'. Aapeuv Tptrov y w r.
EAAHNfiN BA2IAEAN.
'AXf^dyhpou pax. x . vxi'.
iXiWou ’ApiiaUv f . 5*.
’AXf£avfy>ov AJyov <yS*. i ^ .
EAAHNON BA2IA. EN
A i r a r r o .
riTOXef«wou A ^yov x*. X ^ .
I l r . QtXaZtXcpcv Xij'. o^'.
* ?TS-' Q y.
§ i' Qy.
KINGS OF TH E PERSIA N S.
2 1 . Cyrus 9 218.
22. Cambyses 8 . . . . 226.
23. Darius I. 36 . . . . 262.
24. Xerxes 21 ............... 283.
25. Artaxerxes I. 41 .. 324.
26. Darius II. 19 .. 343.
27. Artaxerxes II. 46 .. 389.
28. Ochus 2 1 ................. 410.
29. Arostes2 ................. 412.
30. Darius III. 4 .. .. 416.
KINGS OF TH E G REEK S.
Alexander the Great 8 . 424.
Philippus Aridaeus 7. 7. 431.
Alexander Asgus 12. 19. 443.
G REEK KINGS OF EGYPT.
PtolemaeusLagus20. 39. 463.
Pt. Philadelphus 38. 77. 501.
f ptnt Qy. 1 e W Qy.
II rtry Qy. K n Qy.
Digitized by
84- PT O LEM ^U S’ CANON.
IIt. Eicpytnv •«'.
IIt. $iXcmaTopo<; (£'.
IIt. ’Eicupdyov^ xSf.
IIt. 4iXo/«}Topo{ Xe.
IIt. Evtpytrov(31. x^.
IIt. EarrijpSf X5
-1
.
IIt . Auivvaov xS‘.
KXcoVaTfa; x(9\
p&.
p m '-
p
o
v
{.
<•
O
’
O
/S
1
.
Pt. Euergetes 25. 1 0 2 . 526.
Pt. Philopator 17. 119. 543.
Pt. Epiphanes 24. 143. 567.
Pt. Philometor 35. 178. 602.
Pt. EuergetesII. 29. 207. 631.
Pt. Soter 36. .. 243. 667.
Pt. Dionysus 29. 272. 696.
Cleopatra 2 2 . .. 2!f4. 718.
PflM AIflN BA21A 2 I I . KINGS OF T H E ROMANS.
Aiyovtrrov u .y . Augustus 43. .. 337. 761.
Tifiepiov xj9*. •• . • Ty$\ Tiberius 2 2 . .. .. 359. 783.
.. .. t £v . .. 363. 787.
K
X
at>
8 /ouiS
7
. . . • . TO^'. Claudius 14. .. .. 377. 801.
Nepayof (S'. . .. rfa'.f Nero 14...........
Oifonracnavoi; i • •. ua. Vespasianus 1 0 . .. 401. 825.
t /tod y ... • . .. v8 '. Titus 3............ .. 404. 828.
AopCTiavov ie \ .. .. tuSP. Dometianus 15. .. 419. 843.
. . . . Mt'. .. 420. 844.
Tpaiayov tSP. .. . . vX
S*. Trajanus 19. .. .. 439. 863.
’Afipiavov sea. .. .. v£'. Adrianus 2 1 . .. 460. 884.
‘Arrvi/lyov xy. •. •. wry'. Antoninus 23. .. 483. 907.
Calvisius, p. 79.
• a58’ fty. f t 5x' Qy.
Digitized by Google
DYNASTIES OF THE MEDIAN
KINGS.
85‘
FROM SYNCELLUS.
MHAfiN a Ifiourl'htumv ’Ap-
fiaxTif, o xa-raAvaaf TTjy t5v
’Aamptut apxqy, irij xij
.' MaySaux-rj; «T)j x'.
y . 26<rapfM< (Tij X\
S'. ’Aprvxaf erri A.
e\ At)i'oxij{* enj v8".
AyjToxyjc o M
yJStyy fiatrtAiVC
JxTwey ’Ex^drowa ^ Tyjy iroAiv
fuyaMfy xni iia^or]rov.
{ '. ’A
<
ppcuipT
71t'!l (T
T
j v a .
5". Kva£dpyf ?tij A/S'.
i)'< 'AoTvayrn Adpcto^erij A>j'.
Of the Median kings the first was
Arbaces who overthrew the empire
of the Assyrians .. .. 28 years.
2 . Mandauces .. .. 2 0 .
3. Sosarmus .. .. 30.
4. Artycas...............30.
5. Deioces...............54.
Deioces the king of the Medes
founded the great and celebrated
city of Ecbatana.
6 . Aphraartes .. .. 51 years.
7. Cyaxares .. .. 32.
8 . Astyages Darius 38.
FROM EUSEBIUS.
FROM T H E CANON. ARM ENIA N .
a. ’AfjSaxijc ?tij xij'. i . Arbaces .................. x x v m .
/?. Idaapixof erij A'. ii. Mandauces............... xx.
y . Me&i'ou? *T)j f i . h i . S o s a r m u s ........................x x x .
8'. KapSixeaf iir; vy■ iv. A rticas.....................xxx.
Aijwxtjt ct i) y8'. v. Dejoces.....................tiv.
• Aitlxiit Vulg. f ’ ExfiaxTCta A. B. J ’A<PpMfTr)l Sc-
Digitized by G 0 0 g l e
86- DYNASTIES OF THE MEDIAN KINGS.
r’. Qpaofrrxerr) yX. vi. Phraortes ................ XXIV.
5'. Kvo&ffijc €t tj X^. vii. Ciaxares .............. *. xxxil.
)j'. 'htnvArfWiri) \rj. viii. Astyages ......................xxxviu.
FROM HERODOTUS.
a. A
ijioK
y)? >
7 '. 1 . Deioces.........................53 years.
tpaoprrif (rrj xff. 2.Phraortes ...................22.
y . KuaEdpif etij pi, 3.Cyaxares .................. 40.
i . ’A(mwy>)( €tij X
*'. 4. Astyages 35.
FROM CTESIAS.*
a. 'Apftdxrtf “tij K
ij'. 1. Arbaces ................. 28 years.
/3\ M
a8 aJKij{'f erij ». 2 . Maduces .................. 50.
y . 2.6aapfxc( trij X
'. 3. Sosarmus .................. 30.
8'. ’AyrlajJ ctij v. 4. Artias .........................50.
t . ’Ap^idio){ €tij xj?. 5. Arbianes ..................2 2 .
r. ’Ap<raTo(§ eri) f*. 6 . Arsaeus................................. 40.
5 *
. (eti) xjS
1
. 7. Artynes.........................2 2 .
V
* ’ApTtfidpvaf it t ) u, 8 . Artibarnas...................40.
' A m f i d p a 8 eroS/9o<
r<- After the death ofAstibaras king
X
««{ tSv M
ijS
fu
v •yijpp of the Medes of old age, reign-
rtX n n r ja ’a y ro f, ed
’A<nr48a{|| i v2o{, 0 otto 9. Aspadas his son, whom the
tSx ‘EXXiji'ai* ’A < rrvd yri< Greeks call Astyages.
xaX
oi'/x(v3{. Diod. Sic. Lib. II. p. 84.
• Jackson gives a catalogue of the Median kings composed of the four first
from the list of Syncellus, and the five last from this of Ctesias.
f Me»$&uxi)g m . 7 ’A p r u x a ; m.
§ Diodorus, in subsequently relating the revolt of Parsodes and the war of
the Caducei or Carducei with the Medes, changes the name to 'Apropos.
|| 'AirdoSas m.
Digitized by Google
DYNASTIES OF THE MEDIAN KINGS. 87-
FROM CASTOR *
Q d o d vero c c l x ix annorum
Midorum obtinuerunt tempora,
sic: a principio Abbaci, qui
primus regnavitin Midia, usque
Alyatum quern Cyrus exter-
minans in Persida regnum mi-
gravit.
i. Abracus ann. xxvm.
ii. Sosarmus .. iv.
h i . Mamythus .. x l .
iv . Cardiceus .. x x i i i .
v. Diycus .. tiv.
vi. Fraortus .. xxiv.
v ii. Cyaxarus .. xxxii.
v iii. Astyacus .. x x x v iii.
Haec Midorum regna per-
manserunt per annos c c l x ix a
quintodecimo anno Ozi® regis
Jud®, hoc est, l i i i annorum
prim® Olympiad®. Finiit au-
tem quinquagesima quarta
Olympiada anno trecentessimo
octavo regnante Astyago, quern
exterminavit Cyrus Persus in
quinquagesima quarta Olym
piada.
T h e times of the kingdom of
the Medes continued 269 years,
thus : From the beginning of
the reign of Abbacus, the first
king ofMedia to Alyatus, whom
Cyrus dethroned whenhe trans
ferred the empire to Persia.
1. Abracus .. .. 28 years.
2 . Sosarmus . . . . 4.
3. Mamythus .. 40.
4. Cardiceus .. 23.
5. Diycus .. .. 54.
6 . Fraortus .. .. 24.
7. Cyaxarus .. 32.
8 . Astyacus .. .. 38.
The kingdom of the Medes,
therefore, continued 269 years,
from the 15th year of Ozias,
king of Judah, that is 53 years
before the first Olympiad, and
it ended in the 54th Olympiad,
in the 308th year, in the reign
of Astyagus, whom Cyrus the
Persian dethroned in the 54th
Olympiad.—Sc.Eu. Chron. 78.
* This is from the barbarous Latin chronology mentioned, p. 76.
Digitized by Google
84
CANON OF THE KINGS OF THEBES :
FROM ERATOSTHENES.
IIPflTOJ i(3a<riktv<re Mijnjf*
of i p w
n ilcra i Atowoj'J lj3a<rlkev<rev
iri) I p .
0>j/3atci>v Hevrepof i fia c l-
Xeuce ‘AS td d iff vH f M y v ta f§
?Ti) y d '. ourof ip n n v iie r a i
’E pua/ylyff.
fb lp a lu y A X y v m iu v tp h o f
i(3ao'ikcvo’o A d d d y jf O/Movvfiof
?nj Ap.
Qr/fiatay ifSaatkewo S'.
A<aj3/i]( vtof ,A 9«Sea;|| er>)
id ’. oZrof ip u fy e itT a u
Syfla tiiiy ifiac'ikevtre
Ile /M p u f* * vlof 'A d d d e u f o
T h e first who reigned wasMenes the
Thebinite, the Thebaean; which is by
interpretation Dionius. He reigned
sixty-two years.
The 2 nd of the Theban kings
reigned Athothes the son of Menes,
59 years. He is called by interpre
tation Hermogenes.
The 3rd of the Theban Egyptian
kings was Athothes, of the same
name, 32 years.
The 4th of the Theban kings was
Diabies the son ofAthothes, 19 years.
By interpretation he is called Phile-
taerus.
The 5th of the Theban kings was
Pemphos, the son of Athothes, who
* Mhits Go.—M
ijwff B.
f ©«iwTj)c Vulg.— B.—Thyuites Eu.
^ a&wof Din. from>JUtbL § m/mj*? Go. )| 'A
3a&
ffi<w
sGo.
If Sc. Din.—tpiklripo; A. B.—•foklonpos Go. •* 2i,k^<uiJabl.
Digitized by G 0 0 g l e
ONON OF THE KINGS OF THEBES. 85
0 ijjS
o
»
,£
u
v
’Ai,yw
rT
«i’
v^jSacn- The 6 th of the Theban Egyptian
X
eva-e f'. Toiyapa/xoxoj* kings was Toegaramachus Momchiri,
M
epx(‘ll'‘ MefupiTTjf erij o&
'. the Memphite, who is caUed a man
oSto; ipurixitTut Trjt iyhpkf redundant in his members, 79 years.
•ttpi<
r<
T
O
iu.\-rfi.
&
rif2aifov Alyvmuov ifiao'i- The 7th of the Theban Egyptian
Jv»« S'. 2-rt‘X°( vl'ot ahn, kings, Stcechus his son, who is Ares
a la~n> “
kpn<J iaa(a^ipx<Hi the senseless, reigned 6 years.
V *
try r«
&
rif}auc»Alyvrrim ificuri- The 8 th of the Theban Egyptian
Xtvae oyioot Toaoppu^, I itr- kings Gosonnies, who is called Etesi-
tiv ’E
T
ipr«r<x»ro{enj X
'. pantos, reigned 30 yews.
&
TjlBata* Alywrrlav IftaaI- The 9th of the Theban Egyptian
X
*w
r« Mdpw vio( avrov, kings Mares, his son, who-is called
»im v ‘HKu&
vpof rrij xj-’. Heliodorus, 26 years.
©
ljjSatWA jy v r r la y i'. f
’jSa- The 10th-of-the Theban Egyptian
o-/X«wt» ’Ayui<p)(, § o l< niv kings Anoyphis, which signifies a
vu( hrfxotvtf || ertj k . common son, reigned 2 0 years.
Q
yi/3aL>
i/ Aiywrrlm ta!. The 1 1 th of the Theban Egyptian
l^aa-lKewrev 2‘puf,If « i<
nrm kings Sirius, which signifies the son
vlbf K
opprp;,** &f hi mpoi of the cheek, but according to others
’A
^cK
rxavT
o?hi\ iij'. Abascantus reigned 18 years.
©
ijj9a/&
» Afyyirrisiy i/3\ The 12th ofthe Theban Egyptian
«jSa<riX
6w
reX
»<iS|9i){r»et<fo;,tf kings reigned Clinubus Gneurus,
S i<rnv Xptloyt Xptleov vilf which is Chryses the son of Chryses,
rnj x/31
. 22 years.
©
ijjSaiBv Aiywrr<«y iV. The 13th of the Theban Egyptian
<-/W
!x<w« 'PaiWif, i i ™ kings reigned Rauosis, which-is Ar-
upX‘xpaToperri iy. chicrator, 13 years.
8i]@
atuv Alyvrrriuv »
8 '. The 14th of the Theban Egyptian
lf2acrfo.evtrt B
>S(hj{§§ ?tvj i . kings reigned Biyris, 1 0 years.
• ToTyap A/ta^oj Go.—Toiydcf«/ao* Sc.
J apig Jabl.
|| iirtxutfxos B. Din.—lirtxo/xoe A.
•• x6ptis B. Din. ff Xvtvpo; Sc.
§§ Btvpif Go.— Aiipijs Sc.
f T ia m lp of Sc.
§ ’AvwtQrjf Go.
% 2lpo7( Sc.
** a$X1
>
xp<*T<»p B.
Digitized by Google
8 6 CANON OF THE KINGS OF THEBES.
®rj{3eUuv* ic . ij3a<r(Mv<re
Xao<f>i( Kx[A.ourrrit;,'\' x a ia Sf
b/lovp XprnjuxTirrrj< «nj x&'.
0i)jSaiaiv i f '. ^/3«o-iXewre
X aoipif J ft', enj x£.
0ij/3atuv ig . ifS a a lktva t
Morxefif § 'H X ioSotoj ? tij
Xa7.
©ijjSainiy « / . i^aerl\evtre
MoEff&if || «Tij x y .
0i)j9a/«x <&'. /jSaffiXnwe
’Apxot^i «tij
Xc'. **
Bripaiu* x ifla a lk e w a
’A ndm touf f f //.(yurzof, oSrof
o f (pact napa Spat pdav ij3a-
crl'Atvae* t n )p.
0ojj9a/a>x x a . ificurlXtvcrtv
‘E xem oaoxapaf J J e-roc a '.
0ij|Sa im xjS'. if3ao-lXev<re
N h o x p if §§ ywfj Ayr* t oo
avbpbf, o e
’a-riy ’A&tjxa! Nixtj-
€
T
1
)
©!j/3aii’V x y . ifS a a ik iv a e
Mojjtcwoc 'AaftatSiaTcif trij
*&•
0i)j9ai6)» xj". ifH a a tX ew e
® M cnjjApTjf HU x p a ra io f, o
i t m v 7 )\u f, i n / if}.1
The 15th of the Theban kings
Saophis Comastes, or, according to
some, Chrematistes, reigned 29 years.
The 16th of the Theban kings
Saophis the second, reigned 27 years.
The 17th of the Theban kings,
Moscheres Heliodotus, reigned 31
years.
The 18th of the Theban kings,
Musthis, reigned 33 years.
The 19th of the Theban kings,
Pammes Archondes, reigned 35
years.
The 20th of the Theban kings,
Apappus Maximus, is said to have
reigned 100 years with the exception
of one hour.
The 21st of the Theban kings,
Echescosocaras, reigned one year.
The 22nd of theTheban sovereigns
was a queen, who reigned instead of
her husband; she was named Nitocris
that is Athena the victorious, and
reigned 6 years.
The 23rd of the Theban kings,
Myrtaeus Ammonodotus, reigned 2 2
years.
The 24th of the Theban kings,
Tbyosimares the robust, who is called
the Sun, reigned 12 years.
• Din. inserts klyutrrlwt—Sc. inserts it throughout.—Go. inserts BtxtrCkttm.
*
f* Ko/xaori)s . Go. J SlvaaJpif Sc.—2 *vffaw$if Go.
§ Moiryipn Go. || Moffos Din. B.
ria/iuoc Go.—H i/jin i Sc. •* iy'. Sc. 'Atroorror Sc.
It ’E^ivxof i xipeif A.— 'O xxpas Go.—"E^svxos I K
ipas Sc.
§§ Niiyoxls B. H
UOtWi/uAfis Din. Jabl.
Digitized by Google
CANON OF THE KINGS OF THEBES. 87
SriPaluv xe. ifhurtkcvo’
t The 25th of the Theban kings,
®mAAo{,* o io"Tiv a£(y<ra( ro Thinillus, which is the augmenter of
•nuTfuni xfaTSf ?ti;))'. country’s strength, reigned 8 years.
0tjjSai»v «r'. i/3a<rt\ev<re The 26th of the Theban kings,
Zc/uppompdriK, ocVtiv 'Hfa- Semphrucrates, who is Hercules Har-
xAijf 'Apiroxparijf ?tij «/. pocrates, reigned 18 years.
©tjfialov x£'. Ij3aa-t\ev<re The 27th of the Theban kings)
Xovdrjp TaSpoff rvpayyo( eiy Chuther Taurus the tyrant, 7 years.
s'.
0)jj6a«»» xrf. lf}a<
rtK
ev<
Te The 28th of the Theban kings,
Mcvj^t *»Ao'crxof»{J It y tfl. MeuresPhiloscorus, reigned 12 years.
0ijj3a/B» x&
*. i£Sa<r!\(va-e The 29th of the Theban kings,
Xu/xor^>da§ xoV/wc 4>iA
ij- Chomaephtha Cosmus Philephaestus,
tpattrrof || trtj »®
'. reigned 11 years.
©ij/9®/»v V. tfiaa-Uevo-e The 30th of the Theban kings>
XoTMimba-v/jn Tvpxnat,<?nj Soecuniosochus the tyrant, reigned 60
£'• years.
0i;jSaia?» A®'. if}a<ri'Uv<rt The 31st of the Theban kings, Pen-
ncTeaS/v/fijf** ctij ij-'.ff teathyres, reigned 16 years.
0ij|3«i1
4
* A/?. efUaiTiXevae The 32nd of the Theban kings,
enj xy. Stamenemes the second, reigned 23
years.
§§ Si/paim Ay'. ifSouri- The 33rd of the Theban kings,
Atixre2«rroo-i5cew*t){III)‘H/ia- Sistosichermes, Hercules the strong,
xA?{ xparaibi enj e'. reigned 55 years.
0>jj3®
«ay A
S’, iftaa-ihevjf The 34th of the Theban kings,
M
^(W
{*** <fnj py. Maris, reigned 43 years.
* BCpiWos Sc.—8/fiAAoj A.—Z
iS/V
iA
os B.
t Xoi/irSipTaBpos Jab]. X Mipiji fiAemtfos Sc.
§ X
o/iiu'f&
SL Go. || Salm.—•frAtpuem Go.—$iA/pisTos A.
Dind.—SvxoO
vioi &
%
yT
ljpavvos A.—Soixo6vios lyyrtpauwi B.—Sxovw^o^os
r^avvos Sc.—Ayxo6>i0i 'O
^uTtJfavvos Go.
•• n«»TiaSvf)s Go. ft :a^- Go. m. JJ Irxuiyiu^i Go.
§§ Din. leaves the 33d vacant, and continues the rest as the 34th, &c.
H
I ’EfTovi^ip/xrn Jabl.
A. B. Din.—’HpaxAios xpins Go. ••• M
aptjf B.
Digitized by L v O O Q l e
8 8 CANON OF TH E KINGS OF TH EB E S.
& vjfiaiuy 'M - iPcurfoeva-e
'S.ufyiat, * i 'EW
*5< vlU
* / V ^
H tfo u r ro v , eTij « •
9)j/Sai«y A5-'. ijHaotXtvtrt
. . . . . . f it)
Q riftatuv a?’. iflatriKewTe
•bptijpan/, vjToi NciXot, enj c'.
BijjSaivy X rf. IjUcuricvae
’A/iouSrayraio; f err/ £ y \
The 35th of the Theban kings,
Siphoas, which is Hermes, the son of
Hephaestus, reigned 5 years.
The 36th of the Theban kings,
...................reigned 14 years.
The 37th of the Theban kings,
Phruron, which is Nilus, reigned' 5
years.
The 38th of the Theban kings,
Amuthantaeus, reigned 63 years.—
Sync. Chron. 91. 96. 1 0 1 . 104. 109.
123. 147.
2
i<
ptuaaos Sc.—hpuis G
o. f ’A
/uoup$a7os Sc.
89
THE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE.
EPETAI y a p nap' Aiyvx-
t loti n a X a ily ri xpoyoypatpfTn,
nepiiyjnt X
1h v ta a tc iu p cv y e -
y ta if m akiy p ty yjpivov a n a -
pay,* iy fAvpidui npuri xaX
< fn u n p u ia y pi(y n a y A ip i-
t ay, 8(u t epoy Se t£v M€tr-
T paluy, rp h o y 8t Aiywrrlav,
o tr u m>i in ) Xe£ew<J 'jj0*
'-
Am o n g the Egyptians there is a cer
tain tablet called the Old Chronicle,
containing thirty dynasties in 113
descents, during the long period of
36525 years. The first series of
princes was that of the Auritae; the
second was that of the Mestraeans;
the third of Egyptians. It runs as
follows:
©EON BA2IAEIA THE REIGN OF THE GODS
K a r a t o naX aiov ypaytxiy.
'H c p a ta rw ypoyof oim i t m
8 ta to yvxTOf x o i ripUpap av-
t o v § (patvetv.
“HX»0
{ 'Htjiata-Tov Ifiauri-
A fvaev Ir u y pu>pid8a( t ptip.
E ttoita Kpoyop, <fn)<r), xai
ei Xoinoi mayr t f Stol SaSexa
tfiairikevtray o tij ,y 7!) n8‘.
According to the Old Chronicle.
To Hephaestus is assigned no time
as he is apparent both by night and
day.
Helius the son of Hephaestus
reigned three myriads of years.
Then Cronus and the other twelve
divinities reigned 3984.
• ygiimrt ourtfpwt Go.
t This number is also mentioned by Jamblichus, in connexion with Egyptian
history, as the numberofthe Hermaicbooks, perhaps allowing a book toeach year.
Totf yttiv oZv JXas 'E pjutjs iv t a7g
h fffj\jg (cu s /9/jSXoif, w ( l i k t v x os
& xtygor4/ato* rj r e u s Tpia/xupCai;
t« xotl s x a i x t r r a -
xo aton x a ) sixoai j t / j - t i , <Ls K a -
9 & u j ( ie rro p tl r tX iw s
X X*|«w> A.
All which Hermes wrote in 20,000 books,
according to the account of Seleucus; but
Manetho, in his history, relates that they were
completed in 36,525.—D e M y st. §8. c. 1.
§ a lr u iv B.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
90 TIIE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE.
“Entirci ripfotoi @a<Ti\ti(
»_
_\ »
/ k
W
0XT« (TVJ .
Ka* /ac t 9 ctvTQve yevecci i€
Kwmov xtfxXov Scveypa(prj<rav
iv ereeri vfjtsy,
E It« TowtSv Bvyacr-
T€*a, y€V€UV 7
], pf/.
IIpo? oT$ tiuyaareia
Mf/JUpiraViyevcwy ft, iruy p y .
McS’ot-sir\ StwcurcetaM</x-
(pirwfy yeytZy iruv rpy .
*E*«Ta Svvatmia. Awa--
ico\n2>v9 yevewv e#
, fray pHb',
e It« x' Iwaarela. Ai<xr-
oroXirwv, •ycveay i/, fray crx^'.
vE7T€iTa xa* StlyocoTtfa T a-
yiTwvf ycve£y f , fray fxa'«
E7t® xjS' Suvacrre/a Taw-
tSv, yeveZv y , fray .
^E im ra* xy7 Sw a m lc i
Awo-iroXtrSv, yeveZv f¥, fray
& .
E Ira xS/ bwourrtia 2 ai-
rSv, 'ycvfwv y , ^tSv ^tS/.
IIpo? ok x€/ bvyaareia Al-
S’loVay, yeveay y , fray /xS;.
Mcfr* ot$ x$“
* Swa<TTeia
Mepupiruv, yeyeuy iruv
K'-
Kai aexa t»{ 8e»a<r-
Tfi'af HepirSv e, iruv putt.
Next in order are the demigods,
in number eight, who reigned 217
years.
After these are enumerated 15 ge
nerations of the Cynic cycle, which
extend to 443 years.
The 16th Dynasty is ofthe Tanites,
eight descents, whichlasted 190 years.
17th Memphites, 4 in descent,
103 years.
18th Memphites, 14 in descent,
348 years.
19th Diospolites, 5 in descent,
194 years.
20th Diospolites. ~ 8 in descent,
228 years.
2 1 st Tanites, .. 6 in descent,
1 2 1 years.
2 2 nd Tanites, .. 3 in descent,
48 years.
23rd Diospolites, 2 in descent,
19 years.
24th Saites,
44 years.
25th Ethiopians,
44 years.
26th Memphites,
177 years.
3 in deseent,
3 in descent,
7 in descent,
27th Persians, .. 5 in descent,
124 years.
28th
• Go. omits this,
f ohJtobs xf* tuvotffTlta
xr b .—xr. a .
lUfjawv ytvtwv Sc.—Totfrovs xf' Suaacra/a Go.—raj
1Dind. leaves no space.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
THE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE. 91
*E«iTa x& Svnarrela Ta-
h t S ii, y m o lii. . . . I t £* X&.
Kai eVi Ttaa-aif a 5i»a<r-
Tt»aTa>/Tou lyj<, enj n/'.
Ta 7
ia»ra fywE Twy X' Sv-
yatrroSy «tij My" xai ,r^>xe’.
TaEra dyaXvojueya, ef-
tow* [/.tp ityp tva Ttapa T a
t I " * /
av^a 6TT] HMfft 7reyraxj$,
T y t t a p ' A 'ty v x r ie if xai "EX-
XijoryaftoxaraaTaaiy toE Ze-
SiaxoE /*i*&
oX»y«i/M
>'>jy EijX
oE,
toEi i m Tr,y aso T»S avraE
jyjpLfiov eiri to oEto tnjfjLfiovt
o E<ttj n p u T n XexTov t?{ nptc-
fa ip a ^ 'uTti/jifpinv ^ojS/ou,
KpoE '/.tyo ^fv c l Trap ai/roi$,
S tn u p xai «
’y to?; rayiKoif toE
‘Eppiov xai iy raff Y .vp a n la i "|"
eljxjrai.
29th Tanites, .. in descent,
39 years.
30th a Tanite, .. 1 in descent,
18 years.
In all, 30 Dynasties, and 36525
years.
Which number of years, resolved
and divided into its constituent parts,
that is to say, 25 times 1461 years,
shows that it relates to the fabled
periodical revolution of the Zodiac
among the Egyptians and Greeks;
that is, its revolution from a par
ticular point to the same again, which
point is the first minute of the first
degree of that equinoctial sign .which
they call the Ram, as it is explained in
the Genesis of Hermes and in the
Cyrannianbooks.—Syncel. Chron.51.
—Euseb. Chron, 6 .
FKOM CASTOR.
jE g y pt io r c m regnum inveni-
mus vetustissimum omnium reg-
nurum : cujus initium sub Ma-
nethono dicitur memoramus
scribere.
PrimumDeorum, qui ab ipsis
sctibuntur faciam regna sic:
* xy#u»Vulg.—>
)T
0
<Sc.
Of all kingdoms we find that
of the Egyptians to be the most
ancient. Of whose beginning
we purpose to write according
to the relation of Manetho.
The first dynasty was that of
the Gods, who are classed by
themselves; and I reckon their
reigns thus :
f xvfouvijffi B.
Digitized by LrOOQle
91- THE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE.
Ifestumdicunt quidamDeum
regnare in jEgypto annos sex-
centos LXXX.
Post hunc Solem Ifesti an
nos LXXVII.
Post istum Osinosirim annos
ccccxx.
Post hunc Oron Stoliarchum
annos xxvm.
Post hunc Typhona annos
XLV.
Colliguntur Deorum regna
anni mille d l .
Deinceps Mitheorum regna
sic :
Prota Anubes Amusim, qui
etiam iEgyptiorum scripturas
composuit annos l x x x iii.
Post hunc Apion Grammati
cus, qui secundum Inachum in-
terpretabatur.... annos l x x v ii
quem sub Argios initio re-
gnaverunt.*
Post hsec Ecyniorumf reges
interpretavit Imitheus vocans
et ipsos, annos duo millia c,
fortissimos vocans.
Hsec finis de primo Tomo
Some say the God Ifestus
reigned in Egypt 680 years.
After him the Sun, the son
of Ifestus, 77 years.
After him Osinosiris, 420
years.
After him Oros Stoliarchus,
28 years.
After him Typhon, 45 years.
The sum of the reigns of the
Gods amounts to 1550 years.
Then succeeds the kingdom
of the Demi-gods, thus :
First reigned Anubes Amu
sim, who composed the writings
of the Egyptians, 83 years.
After him Apion Gramma
ticus, who reigned 77 years.
In his reign commenced the
kingdom of Argos, under Ina-
chus.*
Afterwards the kings of the
Ecynii,f by whom must be un
derstood the Demi-gods. They
reigned 2 1 0 0 years.
This is the end of the first
* This and the next passage are so barbarous and obscure that the transla
tion I have given is merely conjectural. I suspect this passage has some con
nexion with the following from Tatianus. ’Av«u> &ypa/x/iaTix6s <prjat 3
*Jti x«-
Tac.2^1TT)v A
Capiv *Afiwois x a T a Tcy 'ApytTov ytyifJixos 'Iror^or.—E u s. P r. X .
f These Gcynii are manifestly the same with vlxuac of the Dynasties of
Manetho and the Manes of the preceding, all which appear to be no other than a
corruption of the fifteen generations of the Cynic Cycle <•' xvm
xovin the original
of the old Chronicle, p. 90.
Digitized by v ^ o o g l e
THE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE. 92
Manethoni habeas tempora an-
Borum duo millia c.
Mineus et pronepotes ipsius
septem regnaverunt annos
CCLIII.
Regnaverunt et aliorum octo
annos cccu.
Necherocheus, et aliorum
octo annos ccxiv.
Similiter aliorum septende-
cim annos ccxiv.
Similiter aliorum viginti
unus annos c c l v iii.
Othoi et aliorum septem
annos c c iii.
Similiter et aliorum quatuor-
decim annos c x l .
Similiter et aliorum viginti
annos ccccix.
Similiter et aliorum septem
annos cciv.
Potestas Diopolitanorum ann.
IX.
Potestas Bubastanorum ann.
CLIII.
Potestas Tanitorum ann.
CLXXXIV.
Potestas Sebennitorum ann.
ccxxiv.
Potestas Memphitorum ann.
CCCXVIH.
Potestas Iliopolitorum ann.
ccxxi.
Potestas Ermupolitorum ann.
CCLX.
Usque ad septimam deci-
volume of Manetho, which
contains a period of 2100 years.
Mineus and seven of his de
scendants reigned 253 years.
Then reigned eight others
302 years.
Necherocheus, and eight
others, reigned 214 years.
Likewise seventeen others,
214 years.
Likewise twenty-one others,
258 years.
Othoi and seven others, 203
years.
Likewise fourteen others,
140 years.
Likewise twenty others, 409
years.
Likewise seven others, 204
years.
Dynasty of Diospolites 9
years.
Dynasty of Bubastites 153
years.
Dynasty of Tanites 184
years.
Dynasty of Sebennites 224
years.
Dynasty of Memphites 318
years.
Dynasty of Uiopolites 2 2 1
years.
Dynasty of Ermupolites 260
years.
The second volume enume-
Digitized by Google
92' THE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE.
mam potestatem secundum scri-
bitur totum, ui docet, numerum
habentem annos mille quin-
gentos xx.*
Haec sunt potestates iEgypti-
orum.
rates to the 17th dynasty and
contains a period of 1520 years.
These are the Dynasties of
Egypt.
FROM EUSEBIUS.
P r im u s homo apud ASgyptios
Hephestus qui ignis inventor
ipsis fuit.
A quo Sol.
(Post quern Agathodaemon.
Post)* quern Cronus.
Post hone Osiris.
Ac deinde Typhon frater
Osiridis.
Post quem Orus Osiridis et
Isidis filius.
TEgyptii primi hi dominati
sunt.
Post quos per successionem
protractum est regnum usque
ad Bitem, in spatio annorum
myriadis triumque millium et
nonagentorum, juxta annos lu-
nares, triginta inquam dierum
numerum enim mensem unum,
illi annum vocabant.
T h e first man according to the
Egyptians was Hephestus, who
was the inventor of fire.
From him descended the Sun.
(After whom Agathodaemon.
After) whom Cronus.
Then Osiris.
And then Typhon, the bro
ther of Osiris.
After whom was Orus, the
son of Osiris and Isis.
These were the first Egyp
tian kings.
After them the empire de
scended by a long succession
to Bites, through a lapse of
13,900 years, reckoned, I say,
in lunar years of thirty days
to each : for even now they call
the month a year.
• This passage in the Armenian is between parentheses, and in what we
might call italics. Has it been Interpolated or omitted? I have replaced the true
names from the Armenian : Aucher has giren them Vulcanu*, Saturnus, &c.
Digitized by
THE OLD EGYPTIAN CHRONICLE. 93
Post Deos regnavit gens
Semi-deorum annis m c c l v .
Atque item alii reges domi-
nati sunt annis m d c c c x v ii.
Post quo» alii xxx reges
Memphites annis m d c c x c .
Post eos alii Thynites x reges
annis c c c l .
Ac deinde Manium et Semi-
deorum regnum annis m m m m m
d c c c x iii.
Simul omnes anni recensen-
tur, myrias (et) mille: qui
etiam lunares sunt, scilicet
menstrui.
Computantur simul omnes
anni lunares quos Asgyptii re-
ferunt fuisse Deorum et Semi-
deorum atque Manium, duse
myriades, quatuor millia et
DCCCC.
After the Gods, a race of
Demi-gods reigned 1255 years.
Then reigned other kings
1817 years.
After them thirty Memphite
kings, 1790.
Then ten Thynite kings, 350
years.
Then came the kingdom of
the Manes and Demi-gods,
5813.
The number of years alto
gether amounts to 11,000;
which also are lunar years, that
is to say, months.
All the lunar year*, which
the Egyptians allow to the
reigns of the Gods, the Demi
gods, and the Manes, are
24,900.—E h. An. 2 0 0 .
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
EGYPTIAN DYNASTIES OF
MANETHO.
94
DYNASTY OF THE DEMIGODS.
tlp u rrj iu v o u r r fla *
A’
rytnrr/av a . i^ a a tk e v a e y
"H tpaK rrof eryj if/xS'. fjpuirv
x a ) T to v a p a f -iipx'paf.f
A ly v r r to v {?. tfSourlhtw rt*
“HXjo; 'H ip a lr ro v fTrj irr’.J
A ly w r rlu y y . ifta trlX ivirty
'A y a A ^ a lj ia y cttj y - '. x a i
fj/Aiav x a ) S tx a rjfxtpaf. §
A iy v r r tu y S’. Iflair'iXtvcrfv
Kpovof enj fx . x a ) rj/uirv. ||
t d y v m l m e\ l(3aa!\cv<rev
"Oa-ipif x a ) T
I<ri{ enj At.
A ) y im ilay y '. t jSatr/Ae&trev
. . . trij . . .
A iyu irrlu y 7jSW/Atwrev
Tw fw V €T)J x H .
A r y v n l o y 1
). ifHatri'hevaey
tlfAlStOt tTH) x t '.
First dynasty.
The 1 st of the Egyptian kings was
Hephaestus, who reigned 724 years
and a half and 4 days.
The 2 nd was Helius, the son of
Hephaestus, 8 6 years.
3rd, Agathdaemon, who reigned
56 years and a half and 1 0 days.
4th, Cronus, 40 years and a half.
5th, Osiris and Isis, 35 years.
6 th.................................. years.
7th, Typhon, 29 years.
8 th, Orus, the demigod, 25 years.
• A. places these words after Hephaestus.
f Go.— S
', i. e. 724, 3-4. Din. J Go.—ir' J Din. i. e. 80, 1-6.
§ Go.—»r/w ij8'. i. e. 56 7-12. Din.
§ ju'w Din. A. O
$>
os Go.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
EGYPTIAN KINGS. 93
A iy v r n la y S'. ifia<rlk(v<rcy
•'Aprj( rj/xi'Seo? enj x y 1.
A ly v r r u iv i. c fia a ik ewrev
"AmujSij ij/*»Se0
{ err)
A iy v r n la y u J . ifieurlkevtrey
'H pdxAijf i/ju S tc f tTi) it.1
A lyvtrrla y i f f . 1fixerIkeutrcy
’A m k X a y * iifu& eof e n j « .
A l y v n l a y t y . Ifia a lk e v a ty
'A jX fuly ^fi/Seos eri) X
’.
A lyv trrla y iff. cfiaa-lkcvirey
TtSojj? TjixlSreof tr ij x £ .
A lyv trrla y le . Ifia a lke v trty
2Zaos]ri/J.&ei>s c r y k fi'.
A 'ty v tr la y i f 1 IfiaurlA tw cy
Ztu{ ty*/S«o« e n j x'.
9th, Ares, the demigod, 23 years.
10th, Anubis, the demigod, 17
years.
1 1 th, Heracles, the demigod, 15
years.
12th, Apollo, the demigod, 25
years.
13th, Ammon, the demigod, 30
years.
14th, Tithoes, the demigod, 27
years.
15th, Sosus, the demigod, 32 years.
16th, Zeus, the demigod, 2 0 years.
—Syncel. Chron. 19.—Euseb. Chron.
7.
* ItiroAa A.—’AxeWar Go.
Digitized by Google
THE EGYPTIAN DYNASTIES OF
MANETHO.
THE FIRST DYNASTY.
AFRIC. SCAL.
META vocw»{ tov? ifu - A fte r the dead demigods the first
itfarn ftcuriktla xara- dynasty consisted of eight kings.
ptSueTrai f3a/riXeuv o k t u .
a!. TOy wparof 0«i-
ffia a iX tv a e v fnj {/S'.
0{ wiro immorra/MV"j- itapira-
ye'n iierpddpr,.
1 . The first was Menes the Thi-
nite; he reigned 62 years, and
perished by a wound received from
an hippopotamus.
f t . “a S v 5 i ( V&f eTij y £ \ 0 2 . Athothis, his son, reigned 57
• Sc.—eii.j/mt Go. t Imrwdt/iou Go.
N. B.—The first column contains the dynasties of Manetho according to
Africanus, from the text ofDindorf: the names and paragraphs included between
the parentheses are the variations which occur in the list of Scaliger. The
third column contains the dynasties according to Eusebius, from the text of the
Editor of the Armenian, who for the most part has followed Goar: the varia
tions are those of Scaliger. The fourth column is the Latin translation of the
Armenian, with the variations from the fragments of the old Latin version of
Hieronymus.
Digitized by G o o g l e
THE EGYPTIAN DYNASTIES OF
MANETHO.
THE FIRST DYNASTY.
EU SEB . 8CAL.
META yexu<x< xa.) roiif tfpu-
d tm if, H purt]y h w a errtla v x a -
r a p A fim e ri (3aert\iwv ex.ru.
m np u ro g yty o ye Mijwjf, e;
duKnj^uu; a v r u y rjyq o a ro . Sup*
ov t m i< i £ txaerrov yeyovg j9a-
eriKtierexuraef ayayp^af/apety,
uv * fi 8»
a&>xv rourov e%a r ly
rp irr n .
a . Q tiv ln if, j' x a i
oi re v r o v inoyoxoi (iC f, iv aX-
X
$
> 8c) 5", ov 'HpoSoroj M^va
eSyopeaerty, ifH aalhevaty trteriv
f . oZto? intpipiov errp a r tlay
im vffera.ro, xatl evSofoj ixpiSfr;,
M J Be 'hneyrerreifMxi § ijp-
t i a d i f .
f¥. “A
&
aw
&
t|| « rotfrw
A R M E N . H IE RON.
P o s t Manes et Semideos, Primam
Dynastiam viu. regum percensent.
Quorum primus fuitMemes, qui nem-
pe praefulgens inter eos, dominatio-
nem obtinuit: a quo quaslibet regum
generationes singillatim describemus:
quorum successio ita prorsus est.
i. Memes Thynites, et hujus vn.
filii, quem Herodotus Mina nuncu-
pavit, regnavit annis xxx. Hie vel
ultra regionis limites cum exercitu
progreditur, et illustris famosusque
habetur; atque ab hippopotamo rap-
tus est.
ii. Athotis hujus filius obtinuit
• iyerygevpetfiitein Go__Sc. f 0i>/rrjf Go.
I Go. inserts Ionov.—A. Ionov.—B. Innov,—and. Din. [firou] between
M ____81.
§ In tr i/iou B. || "AIWJis Din.
Digitized by Google
96 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
A F R IC . S C A L.
r a iv Mepupa /3a<rl\oa oiVo- years ; he built the palaces at Mem-
80, o Z tptfovTai /3ij3\m phis, and left the anatomical books,
Axaro/xixai,* larpof yap rp. for he was a physician.
y . Kcmcnj; (Kfwx«nj{)
i»'&
{ errj A af.
8'. Oitveeptif ( ’Eve<fn]f) v lif
i t i) x y 1. i<p' oZ Xtpii( x a tk a y if
tvjv Atyvirrovp-kya(. oZto; t<»{
vtp'i f Ko%up.r)* riya p f im p a -
puSap.
«. O ita< pa7So( (jZoupai-
So$) vJ»{ i t i \ x'.
r • M«jS»8o? tiSkp ctt] xr*.
via p e ty i ij. i p ’ el <p%opa pee-
y lm \ x a tir p tfi T’P'A jy v x ta .
3. Cencenus, his son, reigned 31
years.
4. Venephes, his son, reigned 23
years. In his time a great plague
raged through Egypt. He raised the
pyramids near Cochome.
5. Usaphadus, his son, reigned20
years.
6 . Miebidus, his son, 26 years.
7. Semempses, his son, reigned 18
years. In his reign a terrible pesti
lence afflicted Egypt.
ij'. Bojrejpit§ e-njxr*. 8 . Bienaches, his son, reigned 26
years.
‘Open U
rn <my. The wholenumberofyears amount
ed to 253.
THE SECOND DYNASTY.
A e v tk p a i w a a t t l a ©ein- Of nine Thinite kings.
t v v ficurihkuv k n k a ‘
* B. in m. has laytyw $aatkicoi.
f naqa Go. omitting raf. J Sijutjuyf/if Go.
§ Birjvor^rjs Go.
Digitized by L.ooQle
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 97
ECSEB. SCAL. ARMEN. HIERON.
vli( ripfa IW i xf. xal za. [regnum]* annis xxvii. et in Memphi
it Mipupi f /W/Xeia flxoSa- urbe regiam aedificavit; qui et me-
/M
ijirev, iarpturjn zt e£yzKrj<rft, dicinam exercuit, atque de modo cor-
xal j9tj9X
oi/f avazopntat zvt~ pora dissecandi libros conscripsit.
rypa \ptv.
y . KanuivtH izotSztv vu( in. Cencenis istius filius, annis
tzy XSr'. XXXIX.
i ‘. Oitve<(r7i<(O ie y ttp p in ) iv. Vavenephis, annis xlii. cujus
H
zrj nf?. l<
j>
‘ ov\ipu>( xazeayrt tempore fames regionem occupavit,
rijv yj&pav, o; xai zaj; mpa- qui et pyramidas ad Chovonem £vel,
fu'Saj zaf rtpl juxta Choe Viliam] erexit.
iiya p tv.
t . Oizoupartf rnj x'. (e\) v. Usaphais, annis xx.
{-'. NiejSej§ (Ni£j8 ij<) enj vi. Niebais, annis xxvi.
I
xr.
f . vii. Mempses, annis xvih. Sub
czy trf. i<
p' oI »oXX» zapa- quo plurima facinora facta sunt,
mjfux iyittzo, xa) fAeyiazrj maximaeque corruptiones.
<
pH tpd.
i/. (Oi/3«»- viii. Vibetbis, annis xxvi.
V !**
t v ),;, trv) x r •
Of Se ir<£vr«? ifiourikevzav Omnes simul regnaverunt annos
czvj <ryft. (riff.) ccm.
THE SECOND DYNASTY.
A e v z tp a I w a z z c tz , fia a i- Secunda dynastia regum ix.
"M at S*.
* The words contained between crotchets [ ] are so placed in the original
translation: the variations of Hieron. are between parentheses ( ).
t Ml/n fu Go. m.—Sc.
I Kwywpri* Din. B.—Ko^c4«is Sc.—Cho oppidum Lat. Qy. X
<
1
/ xtC/irit
or x&pri* Ed. Arm.
f Nu/Sdiif Din.—w«j9«lf B__Niebaes Lat. || A. B. Din.
5f B. •• Jackson allows only 16.
o
Digitized by Google
98 MANETHO’s DYNASTIES
AFRIC. SCAD,
a . 7Dv 7tfWT0{ Bmj&o; *
e nj Xi/. Jy’
o2yjx<T\ia "
f
"xaTa
Bov/Scuttov lyeyero, xai aniZ-
aovto sroXXoi.
/
S
'
. Kaie%a$J erij X&'.
o3 ol fio(f tA7ti; Jv Me/*-
i§xai Mvevij1
1eV ‘
HXiou-
sreXti^f xai o Mer8ijcrio{ Tpr£-
•y«« iyo/j.l<rbii(rav elyai Steal.
y. hlyuStptf erij / / £ . i<p‘
ol ixplStri t a ( y vva ixa ; jSao-i-
Xtiaj yf/ia? exc“
'
-
8’
. TXac eTyj i£ .
e'. SeSrenif en| /*a’
.
y X a lpri( err/ i£ .
5’
. N e<fxpxeprif etri xe'.
o3 /AvSleueTai Toy NeTXov
jucXiti xcxpapeyoy fipUpaf tv-
8exa pinjvai.
**(y. 1l<ruxpi( err) j
u
t
)
'
,
0( StpOf elxe irrixZy e , vX drof
t
y •
&\ Xevepij; (Kevepij;) enj
X'.
'O/X0U «T7J TjS'.)
1. Boethus the first reigned 38
years. During his reign a chasm of
the earth opened near Bubastus, and
many persons perished.
2 . Caeechos reigned 39 years. Un
der him the bulls Apis in Memphis,
and Mnevis in Heliopolis, and the
Mendesian goat, were appointed to
be gods.
3. Binothris reigned 47 years. In
his time it was determinedthat women
might hold the imperial government.
4. Tlas reigned 17 years.
5. Sethenes reigned 41 years.
6 . Chaeres 17 years.
7. Nephercheres 25 years. In his
time it is said the Nile flowed with
honey during eleven days.
8 . Sesochris 48 years. His height
was 5 cubits and breadth
9. Cheneres 30 years.
Altogether 302 years.
* Bofyoe Go. no. 1 eS au.z Go.
1 xal Syus A.—Kaia^fif Go. § M l/Ufi Go.—-/il/ifi B.
|
| Sc.—Mrv,of Go. lXiomrrfAii Go.
•* Syncellus gives the two following as from Eusebius, but there is much
reason to suppose that they properly belong to the list ofAfricanus.
t t Three palms. Eu. Ar.—5 cubits and 3 hand breadths high. Jack.
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 99
EUSEB. SCAL.
a'. BSxof,* i<
p
’ oI %
<
ia-
[ACt x « T a h o v f i a m v "f- f y e -
kto xa> iwXAoi diruM oyro.
ARMEN. HIERON.
I. Bochus. Sub quo ingens ter-
rse hiatus in Bubastone factus est,
multique perierunt.
/S'. McS* o» xa! (ievrep o f)
XoI f, J oTe xa! xa! o
aXXa xa! o Mev&ij-
trio; Tpayo; S’eoi ivofA
ia-^trjerav.
n. Post quem Cechous; qui et
Apis, et Mnevis, nec non Mendesius
caper, tamquam Dii habiti sunt.
y . B i (Buipis) l<
f>
‘ oZ
ixpldrj xa! rac ■ywaixaj f3 a -
<
n\da.(ycp
x<e^eiy.
S'
. t'. s1. Kai fieri rovrovf
aX/.siTpeij, uv ooSey «a-
famjfiov iyivern.
5'. ’Ett! T
O
O if3io/MV fAV-
SeEerai NeAoy xexpafi-
/x
e'
v
o
y rjfjJpa^ evSexa pv/jvai.
in. Postea Biophis, sub quo lex
sancita, qua fceminis quoque regni
honor delatus fuit.
iv. v. vi. Post istos alii adhuc
tres; quorum aetate nullum insigne
opus factum est.
vii. Sub septimo, commentores
fabularum Nilum fluvium diebus xi.
melle aqua permixto fluxisse ajunt.
i) . M e S " m 2e<Tu%pi( err;
ftij”. Of X e y e r a i y e y o y e y a i
rnjxS
v(. itaXaurruvy.
t o f iF y e d o f.
y . Em 8e r& f in ia . odSty
afiO fU T jfuiyevrov V'Ttjpyyy.
0 1 xa! ^/3ariAewa» lr«ri
'K-U
v i i i . Post quem Sesochris, annis
x l v iii. cujus proceritas cubitis v. et
latitudo palmis m. fuisse dicitur.
ix. Sub nono autem nihil memoria
dignum fuit gestum.
Regnaruntque [simul] annis
ccxcvii.
* U
gw
rovBa^oD Go.—Sc.
f xara/3ou/Sdco'Tcuv Go.—B
ouj8acTn> Sc.
XX&og Din. B. § B.
|| Sc. at the end of this dynasty places and Xiyffijs from the list of
Airicanus as in the opposite page.
100 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
*
THE THIRD DYNASTY.
A FRIC. SCAL.
T
/m
'-d
j IvycurrtiaMtpupnSy Of nine Memphite king9 .
f}curi\ip>v in ta .
a!. rClt Nexfp&pyt*(’Ex<- 1. Necherophes reigned 28 years.
po'(/»ii) frvj nr/', i<
p’ oI Ai'jSwc In his time the Libyans revolted from
iire'crn)<ra> Aiywrnuv x a ) -nj( the Egyptians, but on account of an
o-ftojujf ita p a A
iiyoy aifij&e/- unexpected increase of the moon
<rtif ha Bto( iavroif irapeio- they submitted through fear.
<
ra
y
.
To'aropdpof Srii x%
‘. 2 . Tosorthrus reigned 29 years.
oJtsj ’A
oxA
ijirtoi Aiyw/en He is called Asclepius by the Egyp
tian*-njy laTpixrjy yeyopna-rai, tians, for his medical knowledge. He
xa! ttjv ha fe<rr£v A
/S
rw
»u- built a house of hewn stones, and
xt& opJav e ip a to , a A A a x a ) greatly patronized literature.
ypaufrrK infpxK r^ly).
y . T v p i f f tT
rj 3. Tyris reigned 7 years.
S'. M
iauxpu; (juVofcf'O 4. Mesochris 17 years.
fT
l)I?'.
e'. 2»u^
n<J enj 5. Soyphis 16 years.
/
«r-
r- Toa-ipTaa-is «tij i^. 6 . Tosertasis 19 years.
5 '. "A
x>?«§t-nj 7. Aches 42 years.
ij‘. 2y<
poiipi<1
1 (Suptvpu;) 8 . Sephuris 80 years.
S'. Kepffpyq i-Tt) xr'. 9. Cerpheres 26 years.
'O.uoS ?t i j , ins'. Altogether 214 years.
• B.
t Go.
|| 2fyovfig Go.
f B.
G
o.
Digitized by Google
OP THE KINGS ( X T EGYPt. 101
THE THIRD DYNASTY.
EUSEB. SCAL.
Tphri bvyaartta Me/jupirtSy
pauriXtu* V.
a. * ty'
\lj3 v t; Sm itTrycrdv A ly v m ta y ,
xa! r ijf KfXyyij; ita p it \iy e y
&v[ri$rcf<nif b t i M e; ia v r n i ;
v a p tb o ra y .
ARMEN. HIEftON.
Tertia dynastia Memphitarum re
gum VIII.
I. Necherochis, sub quo Libyes
adversum Aegyptios rebellarunt:
quumque Luna importune aucta fue-
rit, metu ducti, seipsos rursum in
servitutem dedidere.
/S'. Me&" » XdaopSo;, o<
'kcyX rp n ii; n a p ' Aiytnrrlot;
IxKrjSri biit T*)»larpixrjy, d ir t;
xal rr/y blit ( t a r u y X/Scov olxo-
bepiTjy ttp a r o , dXXA xal y p a -
<
fi;Inc/uX
rj&
ri.
Oi 8e Xoittoi \£ ebbiy d (io -
puijpuytvrey Jirpafav.
ii. Post quern Sesorthus, qui ob
medicam artem Aesculapius ab Ae-
gyptiis vocatus est. Hie etiam sectis
lapidibus sedificandi modum invenit,
atque literis exarandis curam impen-
dit.
Sex ceeteri autem nibil memo-
ratu dignum gesserunt.
Ol tea) i/3act\€v<r(y treat Quique regnarunt annis cxcvn.
p
h
r).
* N ax<^‘f Go.
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
102 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
THE FOURTH DYNASTY.
AFRIC. SCAL.
Tttifrti) ivnaatela
ipnu* <rvyytvtla,f itepa( /9a-
aik(T;jj’.
a,'. €Tij .
j9. 2ov(pL$ eri) fy . C
{ Tijy
l*/eyhmjv Jjyeipe m p a /ilS a , ijv
tprjmy 'H^oBoto$ 4»o Xeoiraj*
ypyayevat. ovtof 8e xai U7r€-
poiTT7
]$y tl( &eot< i y i n t o xal
tjjv Jepay m n ty p a i) ^ jS/jSXcy,
ijy £( ^ceya xfivu* & AiyvRTp
•ym/«yo< ix.trpa.pry. J
y . 2oE<£<; tTij fj-'.
8 . Mevxiprjf enj fy'.
'PaTo/<nj{ eri] xe'.
« '• Bi'xefi?§ enj x0'.
?'• 2«0«WC«W« (Zc^€fx«-
pl«)«
T
’!?'•
ij'. SapupSllf tty] &'.
'O/xoI enj o-oS1
. (airS*.)
Of eight Memphite kings of a
different race.
1. Soris reigned 29 years.
2. Suphis reigned 63 years. He
built the largest pyramid which He
rodotus says was constructed by
Cheops. He was arrogant towards
the gods, and wrote the sacred book;
which is regarded by the Egyptians
as a work ofgreat importance.
3. Suphis reigned 66 years.
4. Mencheres 63 years.
5. Rhatceses 25 years.
6. Bicheris 22 years.
7. Sebercheres 7 years.
8. Thampthis 9 years.
Altogether 284 years.
THE FIFTH DYNASTY.
nifitmi ivyatrta'a fia<ri- Of nine Elephantine kings.
X
f'aiy VII ‘EXf^ayT/yijj.
Oio-epVp’KH xtj'. 1. Usercheres reigned 28 years.
* itxl y/oTTos A. B.—SiroyfoxToy Go. f B.— i H iffa-T is Go.
I ixTi^ijy B. § jS/y.fii B. Din. Go.
II Qy- OJc ip y ifti Go.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 103
THE FOURTH DYNASTY.
EUSEB. SCAL.
TerapD] ZvyaaTfia jSaa-i-
Xcd» i£’. MefMpiTuv cruyye-
veiaf Ittpa< fiaciXeiaf.
Tflv TflT0{ 20VIptf, 0( TVjy
fueyl<rnjv irupa/xi&a iy e ip a f,
7iv <jni<r)v 'H puBorof wro X e'm o;
yeyarytvcu. o( taxi iirq w V n jf
el( b to b f yeyovev, £ ( picrayoy-
tra y ra auroy ttjv Updy a v y -
ypaxpcu jS/jSXoy, yv i f p c y a
X fiip a A ly ilim o i m p U m w i.
t uv St XoiicSy ou&lv a{io^c«j-
fuivtvruv i.vtypd<fni, ol x a i
£ ^a r!> .(va a y err;
ARMEN. HIERON.
Quarta dynastia Memphitarum
regum x y ii. ex alia stirpe regni.
Quorum tertius Suphis, qui mag-
nam illam pyramidem erexit, quam
a Cheope factam Herodotus dicit:
qui et superbus in Deos inventus est,
usquedum eum [hujusce rei] poeni-
tuit, et libros Sacrarii conscripsit;
quos velut magnas opes habebant
Aegyptii. De caeteris vero nihil me-
moria dignum scriptum est, Quique
regnarunt annos c c c c x l v iii.
THE FIFTH DYNASTY.
n«/*mj Iwounela jSswi- Quinta dynastia regum xxxi. Ele-
Aesjy r p id x o y ra (ytx; ’E X e- phantiniorum.
t p a r r h n i f .
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
104 . MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
A FRIC. SCAL.
jS/. 2f<ppr)( err; t y .
y . N tffpxepn (Ntpxeipt-
PV< ) C T y *'•
S'. Sir/pT/f* (S«Ti%
l{) (Tf)
S'-
e. Xtprii (Ex«(»jO?tij k'.
f'. 'Pa&M^tjf’f' (PaSrou-
/»{) eri) /*$'. (f*a.)
?'• (Mepxepn)
€Tyj S'.
)}'. Touting (Tax«
>
’!<)
err) poW.
&. *0 j3i>o<|| (0?yo{) £Ti)
xy.
'O
jJM
U6
T
7
Joytt/.
2 . Sephres 13 years.
3. Nephercheres 2 0 years.
4. Sisires 7 years.
5. Cheres 2 0 years.
6 . Rhathures 44 years.
7. Mencheres 9 years.
8 . Tancheres 44 years.
9. Obnus 33 years.
Altogether 248 years.
T H E SIX T H DYNASTY.
"Emti) Swarctla jSao-iX
esjy Of six Memphite kings.
t( MefMpnuv.
d. (O
&
m
j?) ?tij 1. Othoes, who was killed by his
X', of Ido t u v SopiMpopuv curp- guards ; reigned 30 years.
f}'. $io{ rrij vy. (y.) 2. Phius reigned 53 years,
y. M
t^ova-ovtpif cm) 1
*
. 3. Methusuphis 7years.
S'. M
onp ifceTrif &
p£ap«-4. Phiops who began to reign at
V
05 j3ao-(X
tuf(ySiey€K
To pixpif six years of age, and reigned till he
frSv />
'. had completed his hundredth year.
c\ ** irof 5. Menthesuphis reigned one year.
?»
.
* 2i'at(ig Go. *
1
* Go.
§ Topxtffc Go.
'OStvrfs A.— OSootjj Go.
J Mtp%tg))g Go.
|| onog B.
•* Go.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 105
EUSEB. SCAL. ARMEN. HIERON.
T
Q
vir/>
5ro« Quorum primus Othius. Hie a
oSto? into t uv Scpvcpcptn Inp- suis satellitibus occisus est.
)•
'O 8« y . iltmp (Aipi'mp) Quartus Phiops, sexennis regnare
i£atTTi( ap^d/Mnof IfZxrtkiwt coepit; tenuitque usque ad annum.
ptypn £r£v p.
THE SIXTH DYNASTY.
*Ext p ivtcurrtia. Sextadynastia.
T
Digitized by Google
106 MANETHo’g DYNASTIES
AFRIC. SCAL.
Nhm pi( ytnmurd-
Tt) * tux) ti/up<poTdTri rS> Hurt'
atrtrp ytyopUn], £caftri t ijy
Xpoi&y, ri tvjv Tfmjy ijyeipt
mpapilta' i^atriXeurfy irt)
>
P
-
'Ofuv cth) <
jy‘.
6. Nitocris, who was the most
handsome woman of her time, of a
florid complexion; she built the third
pyramid, and reigned 12 years.
Altogether 203 years.
THE SEVENTH DYNASTY.
Bwcurrda MtfMpi- Of seventy Memphite kings, who
ray (SaffiXeuv o', ol i@ a a l\tv - reigned 70 days.
u a v i/iM paf o’.
THE EIGHTH DYNASTY.
'OySorj Ivvao-Tcla Mf/jjpi- Of twenty-seven Memphite kings,
T«y fH
aa-iXcuv xt,1
, »
" Ifiaai- who reigned 146 years.
Xeixray rrij
THE NINTH DYNASTY.
’Evan; Bmartela 'Upax-
XfOTroXiTuy•(• (Sao-iXcuy (S', o!
lf3aal\(vo’ca>ert) uSr1
.
Tflv 1vpuTot 'Ax&dyf
t«to{ t5v itpi avtoC yivouev'j$
roTf iv itaurp Alyihrty xaxd
elpydaaTO, SaTcpev Bt /xattf
•ntpieviaf, xal iiro xpoxoBdXou
SietfAdprj.
Of nineteen Heracleopolite kings,
who reigned 409 years.
1. The first was Achthoes, who
was worse than all his predecessors.
He did much injury to all the inhabi
tants of Egypt, and being seized with
madness, was killed by a crocodile.
• yim|TiX)yT^T)| n x«) B. f Hfocx\twrixSiv Go.
Digitized by Google
OF THE KINGS EGYPT. 107
EUSEB. 8CAL.
t^huxptf ifictalMixTe
t Sy xar' lanyy ytyyixm Atl
xoi tbpu piperd r y , fa y S y r e ryy
X fia y v xd p £ a tra , y xal \tyt-
to u r y y rp lry y T v p a y lta cfxo-
ttpmpuycu.
0 1 xal ifia o -lX n e a y t r y t r y .
ARMEN. HIERON.
Mulier qusedam Nitocris nomine
regnavit: quae omnium sui temporis
virorum fortissima erat, atque om
nium foeminarum pulcherrima, flavo
colore, et rubris genis: ipsamque
ajunt, tertiam pyramidem aedificasse;
quae eat moles erecta collis instar.
Qui regnaverunt annis com.
THE SEVENTH DYNASTY.
'Efibopy tw airrda Mtpupi- Septima dynastia Memphitarum
ruy @<un\iuy tin t, oi l@a- regum v. qui regnaverunt annis
< rl\tvaay y p tp a y oJ . LXXV.
THE EIGHTH DYNASTY.
’O y iJ y iv y a a r tla M tp u p n S y Octava dynastia Memphitarum v.
P curfoiuy n i r t t , ol ifS a a ih tv - regum, qui regnarunt annis c.
nay fr y p .
THE NINTH DYNASTY.
'Eyydry bvyantla 'Hpa- Nona dynastia quatuor regum He-
yXtmoXnuyfScuriKeuyrcrai.- racleopolitarum, qui regnaverunt an-
p m , ol Iftcurl’
ktvaa.y fry p. nis C.
T
O
v irp3T0f“Ax$°f* bad- Quorum primus Ochthovis, ora-
raTo<ruvupi atnoCytyifMvof, nium, qui ante eum reges fuerunt,
to*{ ly ndtry Myirrrtp xaxi crudelissimus fuit; itaque tot, tanta-
Ap/yi/rato, (rrtpoy piaylp nt- que in universa Aegypto scelera ac
puvtat, xal xpm
u&
fiXev flagitia patravit, ut demum dementia
bfopShipy, laborans, a crocodilo bestia devoratus
fuerit.
• h yidiys B.—Ochitois Lat.
Digitized by Google
108 MANETHO’s DYNASTIES
THE TENTH DYNASTY.
AFRIC. SCAL.
Afxanj Iwcunela 'Hfa- Of 19 Heracleopolite kings, who
xXtoiroXiTuv fiaatyJav reigned 185 years.
o! cfiaatkevaav err\ fnte .
THB ELEVENTH DYNASTY.
'K viecd rri h w a r r c la A u h t -
rrcXirSv fia a iX cu v > o! if} a -
oChtVGaV CTTj fuy . p e & o tf
’Ap.pcvep.ris tnj ijj .
M c x fi rovSc rov rrpSrov
Topov v a r a y ip y j* MawSS.
'O puv p a a i\e 7 ( p‘i ^ 1. crrj
'fir 1, -J
- rjpcpat o'. ,
Of sixteen Diospolite kings, who
reigned 43 years. Among whom
Ammenemes reigned 16 years.
The whole number of the above-
mentioned kings is 192, who reigned
during a space of 2300 years and 70
days.—Syncel. Chron. 54 to 59.—
Euseb. Chron. 14, 15.
• xocrayi\ojy» B.—xotr&yu 6 Xt/j/j.av&£> Go.—xaTayjjo)£«y 5 Motv&ui Go. m.
f f i r ■fj/xifou B.—fiTT\ filqtu A.—firy { lifityas Go.
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
OF TH E KINGS OF EG Y PT. 109
THE TENTH DYNASTY.
E C SE B . SCAE. A RM EN. H IE RO N .
AexaTij 81ncurttla, 'Ufa- Decima dynastia Heracleopolita-
xA
€«*oA
m
>yjSoffiX
eaiv iS". o1 rum regum xix. qui regnarunt annos
^ a a iK e v a a n e T f f v e . CLXXXV.
THE ELEVENTH DYNASTY.
'EvSexanj imaaTtla Atoir- U ndecim a dynastia D iopolitarum
woXjtSvj9o<7iX«av i? • Ifa - regum xvi. annis x liii. regnantium .
alXcucoa e-nj fuy. M
»j&
* ai< P o st quos A m m enem es annis xvi.
'Apfuvcjx-ris (Tn
Me%pi ToE8e t o » vp&w t o - H u e usque prim um tom um producit
/m v x a r d y e t (o%cv) o M ove- M anethus. Sim ul reges c x c i i . anni
SrS(. 'O /m S f}a<ri\tT{ pbf2'. m m c c c .
fn j ,/3t. (rifupai 0& .)
Digitized by Google
THE SECOND BOOK OF MANETHO.
THE TWELFTH DYNASTY.
AFKIC. 8CAL.
AOAEKATH h v v a m t a A u ta -
m A n S v jSoto-jXfWi v r d .
a . 2f(7oy^tiK7i{* (Tea-uv
r«OTJ{t) ’AlMfUud/MV v lif €T7]
V*'-
f t . ’A/x/xayqutjf tn) X rf, U
i n i t u v lila v tv w v y jn Avjj-
y . Z e a u a r p if^ enj
o; a n a tr a v i-^eipuaaro Tr/V
‘A a la v tv In a v ro T f e n e a xai
•njf E ipuirrif t a p tx p i ® P ?*rlf
K avraxi< r( ptw i/jacw a ty e lp a f
■njf i S v t& vSv rx c o -e u f, t v i
f«y to!{ y tn a .u n lai&puv, in i
i t T0<5 & ytnt< ri y w a r n S v fjui-
pia Ta~{ trry X a tf ty y flp ia a a v ,
i f inch A lyvtrt'iuv p x r d “O aipiv
npSrov vcfutrSrjvat.
Or seven Diospolite kings.
1. Geson Goses the son of Ammi-
nemes. He reigned 46 years.
2. Ammanemes reigned 38 years.
He was slain by his eunuchs.
3. Sesostris 48 years. He con
quered all Asia in nine years, and
Europe as far as Thrace, every where
erecting monuments of his conquest
of those nations: among the people
which had acted bravely he set up
cippi of a phallic nature, but among
the degenerate female emblems of a
similar description engraved upon
pillars. By the Egyptians he is sup
posed to be the first after Osiris.
• 2»ff6y)((vffis Din.—2tff6YX.wP,s ®0, m* t y*fo rytw s B.
X fftffoarfti B.
Digitized by Google
THE SECOND BOOK OF MANETHO.
THE TWELFTH DYNASTY.
EUSEB. 6CAL.
AQAEKATH S v y a tr tfla Aioff-
itoXit5» (SowiXcmv, 5*•
a*. T
n» n p a r o f 2e<royxu ~
pif * ’Apopoeyipoov v llf err] pof*.
A RM EN . H IER O N .
Duodecima dynastia Diopolitarum
regum v ii.
i. Quorum primus Sesonchosis
Ammenemis filius, a n n i s x l v i .
/S'. 'top.fMyijt.yjf "I" ir r j Krf.
Of loco r a y tSlay tiv o u x u v &y$-
y . 2 fTOOTpif J CTIJ
o< \ i y r r a u yiyoyeyou S'.
r a X a u r r a y y . Soncn/Xiiw /S'.
of natrooy iyfop& aaro r rfy 'A a ia y
i> ly ta v ro T f l n e a , x a ) ttJj
E ip v v rit too poexpt S p f x f f , §
r a y tu y fia t p u rffM tw a iytipoof
■njf r a y iS y a y x a r a r p fir o a f,
in ) fti» toT f ycyyooloof, iyS p u v ,
n o ) in ) n T f A y tn e tn y w c u -
xu y poopoa r a u f trrtjX aif i y y p -
patr&vY, a f x a ) vno r a y A’
.yt-
n r iu y p e r a "Oaipov || yopua-
Syjyai.
ii. Amraenemes, annis xxxvm.
qui a suis eunuchis occisus est.
h i. Sesostris, annis xtvm. quem
quatuor cubitorum, et palmorum
trium, duorumque digitorum [proce-
rum] fuisse dicunt. Hie totam Asiam
annis novem subegit, Europaeasque
partes usque ad Thraciam: atque
ubique monuments, quarumcumque
gentium potitus est, erexit; fortium
quidem virorum formas virili specie,
ignavorum vero muliebribus membris
in cippis insculpsit: adeo ut ab
Aegyptiis post Osirim habitus sit.
• oooSyyons B.—iioiyyapif Go.—Sioiyyains Din.
f ’A /i/im i/im Din.—B. J o ic o rrp n B.
§ f^ X ! ‘ Sc. || Go. adds npunoy in m.
Digitized by
112 M AN ETHO ’S DYNASTIES
A FR IC . SCAL.
A a jp fy ’lt try if. oj Toy
in ’Af<7ivo?Tj XajSopiv&oy iavrip
rdupovKaremtvairf.
€. ’A/ifte/rtj? * eTij if.
r'- 'Aupaxpiif f «nj >/•
2k£^KX^(J1{ €T
1j
4. Lachares 8 years ; he built the
Labyrinth in the Arsenoite nome as
a tomb for himself.
5. Ammeres 8 years.
6. Ammenemes 8 years.
7. Scemiophris, his sister, 4 years.
‘O/M
VfTlj pi'. Altogether 160 years.
THE THIRTEENTH DYNASTY.
Tpunuulemirri Ivvourrela Of60 Diospolitekings, whoreigned
AwottoXitSk PounXiuv !f, of 453 years.
if3a<ri\ewav enj w y '.J
THE FOURTEENTH DYNASTY. §
T
€<ro-ap«oT
taj8«itttn)8w«<r- Of 76 Xoite kings, who reigned
Ttla Soi'T
tSyjS
ourikiuv of'y of 184 years.
^jSoo'iXtwavenj p7r8\
THE FIFTEENTH DYNASTY.
n«V
T
€xa*8e>«£T
t) hwa&rda
TOifiaw.
'Hiray 8e $o/yme; ftyoi
f}aai\e7$ of xai Mepupiy
(TXoy.
O f th e S hepherds.
T h ese w ere six foreign Phoenician
kings ; who took M em phis.
* B. + ’A/i/tnl/iyigc A . — ifU ti/n r ic B.
1 B.— A. Go. Jack.
§ Inserted by Dind. from B.—Omitted altogether by Goar.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF TH E KINGS OF EGYPT. 113
EU SEB. SCAL.
M<y tv Aa|8»fi{* t r y
y . t ( r a t v ' A fxrtv u rri Xo-
fMftvSn ta vry ratpov xecrcr-
nicUTtv.
O i r o d r ix j tiStv/fli tr y
tf-
0 1 •naevrtf ^/ScwiXftxrov t r y
I
Tfit.
A RM EN . H IER O N .
Post quem Lambares, armis vm.
qui in Arsenoite labyrinthum sibi se-
pukhrum construxit.
Hujus anccessores regnaverunt
annis x l ii .
Simul vero omnes xegnarunt annis
CCXLV.
THE THIRTEENTH DYNASTY.
T/utmaiSfKan) iwa/rrtU Decimatertia dynSstia Diopolita-
A a m o \ i r Z » ^ c u r i X t u v £ '. oi rum regum l x . qui regnaverunt annis
lf2a< r!\evaav t r y w y . CCCCLIII.
THE FOURTEENTH DYNASTY.
Tt< r<raft< m aittv.(iry S w a tr-
r t l a S o ir a v fta n iX tu v 0
5
-*.
oi iflatrtA tvcrav “
t r y v n ti.
(jw
*’0
Decimaquarta dynaatia Xoitarum
regum l x x v i . qui regnarunt annis
CCCCIXXXIV.
THE FIFTEENTH DYNASTY.
T levreK aitetuiry IvvauTTtia Decimaquinta dynastia Diopolita-
A u r m X ir S v fZ axri\tuv, oi i fia - rum regum; qui regnaverunt annis
tvtrav “
t r y W . COE.
* A ip x p t B. Din.—Lampares Lat.
a
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
114 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
AFRIC. SCAE.
a . TOv irjjMTO; SaiTtjs e-
paalXtva-fv tTrj <&
*, Sup’ cl
xa» c la iT ijf vo/xof.* ot xai
& T? ZebpotTji -j- yc/xS tto'Xiv
» • ,, r c /
cxtiitcw, a<p opfxufxeyci
Aiyim!cv( ixtip&O’
avTC.
f&. B vu y J (A>£») tn j /xS’.
7 . Ilajya)' § ttij fa'.
S'. 2 taa» t T7
j / .
f . "ApxXrn try) pctf.
?'■ “Aipc^u; || (A^ajSij)
v C/
€Tij £ a .
*
O /xcv c t i) triri1.
1. The first was Sates who reigned
19 years. The Salte nome is so
called after him. The shepherds
founded a city in the Sethroite norae,
from whence they invaded and con
quered all Egypt.
2. Beon reigned 44 years.
3. Pachnan 61 years.
4. Staan 50 years.
5. Archies 49 years.
6. Aphobis 61 years.
Altogether 284 years.
THE SIXTEENTH DYNASTY.
'Efxa<8txanj Swaorfia Of 32 Hellenic Shepherd kings,
m t/xcycp "E
A
A
ijvej jSacnA
ejV who reigned 518 years.
X
j3‘. IfScurtXevo-ay iit\ (plri'•
THE SEVENTEENTH DYNASTY.
'EirraxaiSexarij SuvacrTtia Consisted of 43 Shepherd kings
iroi/xeycf aA
A
oi jS
a<ri\u<; fxy and 43 Theban Diospolites.
(A y ') x a i 0 ij(S a m Aiuntok?-
r a t pcy.
’O/xcv cl m ifxeyts teal cl The Shepherds and Thebans
0ijj9aZ
o» ific u rlX iv e a v err; reigned altogether 151 years.
p v a .
• This paragraph iSy irpSrro; . . . . >
o
/tii is inserted by Goar and others
after Jy«ifto<n»ro.
f aauSpCiTc B. J B
w
C
vGo.—B
tjeiff Go. m.
§ Xirayyas Go. m, j K fu tp ii ra. aAAoi Din. Sc.
Digitized by L.ooQle
OF T H E KINGS OF EGYPT. 115
EUSEB. SCAL. ARM EN. H IE RO N .
THE SIXTEENTH DYNASTY.
'EfxaiSsxiToj iwao-Tela Decimasexta dynastia Thebarum
©
ij/9aioi i . oi v.a.1 regum v. qui regnarunt annis cxc.
tjSafr/XstJOXty C
T
Y
]f<
/'.
THE SEVENTEENTH DYNASTY.
‘EorraxajBtxaTtj iwatrKia
t o i n e » (f r.a'ay a8eX <^oi * < to i-
>«({ fsvoi |Sa<riX<<{, oi xal
Mepupiv «7Xo».
a . rfly irpS-rof 2 a t n j {
tfia a lk e w iy eTi| i&\ arp‘ oZ
x a i o 2aiT )j< vopiii; e
’xXij&rj.
oi x a i & To; X«SfoiT7
)
vo'Xiy exTwav, aup' 3j{ o ppu-
\u tm A iy v r r u v ( i^a p ^j-a y-ro .
f¥ . B » £ » ( A » « » ) « t i j / * 7 '.
7'. “Atpoxpif CTV] »
8\
S'. Meiy o» “Apyfa li (A»-
XXlJf) €T)J X'.
'Opuiv erri p y . K a r a t o i / -
t o u ; A iy v rm w jS as-iX tlj (|8 a -
viX eij) 'luayyp te iK w ru i.
Decimaseptima dynastia Pastorum;
qui erant fratres Phoeniees, peregrini
reges; qui Memphim etiam ceperunt.
I . Quorum primus Saites regnavit
annis xix. a quo et Saitarum Nomus
nomen habuit. Qui in Sethroite quo-
que Nomo condiderunt urbem ; ex
qua irruptione facta Aegyptios ipsos
subegere.
I I . Secundus Bnon, annis x l .
iii. Post quern Archies, annis xxx.
iv. Apophis, annis xiv.
Summa, anni cm. Horum tem
pore, ut imperaret Aegyptiis, Joseph
apparuit.
• Sc. omits.
Digitized by G o o g l e
116: M A N E T H o's DYNASTIES
AFRIC. SCAL.
THE EIGHTEENTH DYNASTY.
bvyx<n€la.
A to rin X iT u y p a a iX eu v
Of sixteen Diospolite kings.
a . 7Clv wpwToq ’A
ov M uvaijq ((vjX&cy i ( A ty v ir -
T
Q
V
j ijp c if oandbeixvvafxev.
{$'. JLC0pv$ CT7J' t y .
1. Amos, in: whose time Moses
went out of Egypt as we shall de
monstrate.
2. Chebros 13 years,
y . *A
[Myuxp&'n errj *
&
'. * 3. Amenophthis 24 years.
b\ *A
/M
pO
‘
lq'\ €Tty *.{?.
€. Mfocuppn (Mi<r<ppii)
V f
€rrj ty .
S
J . M itippaypuivSsutn^ inj
yap, t y oZ o €
7
ri AcvxaX/avof
x a T a x X w ja c ;.
Tov%fiu<ri$ err] &.
1]. 'A fM vufyi5 rrij Xa1
. oZ-
to{ i t to o M
e/A
nov eJyai yo-
lAi^c/Myos xai <f&eyyo/Aevo<
X iSof.
T
flpo{ Hry X
iJ
1
.
4. Amersis, 22 years.
5. Misaphris 13 years.
6. Misphragmathosis 26 years, in
whose time happened the deluge of
Deucalion.
7. Tuthmosis 9 years.
8. Amenophis 31 years. He is
supposed to be Memnon, to whom
the musical statue is erected.
9. Horus 37 years.
«
’• ’Axepprjf iti) X
yS'i 10. Acherrhes 32 years.
ia ’. ‘Po&
aij ?T
)j ?£. 11. Rathos 6 years.
• x« Go. m. f ot/jsvtr)> B.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
OB TiHE K IN G S OF EGYPT. 117
EU SEB. SCAL. A RM EN . H IE R O N .
THE EIGHTEENTH DYNASTY.
’OKToixatSexaTTj tw a c rr e ia
AioottoXitSv p a a iX eu *
Os-'.)
aK rOv TtpwTOq Auuoa-u; €T7]
* € •
Decimaoctava dynastia regum xiv.
Diopolitarum.
i. Quorum primus Amoses, (Amo-
sis) annis xxv.
f? . XePpO* (htJJT€poi) €T7] ii. Chebron, annis xm.
I
‘7 •
y . Apiju»£<pif (AfimwjMf) hi. Amophis, annis (Amenophis)
TV} x a '. X X I.
S'. MuppU* €TYJ if? . iv. Memphres, (Mephres) annis
X II.
Micr<ppayiMil&u'<Ti(f tr y v. Myspharmuthosis, (Misphrag-
/ muthosis) annis xxvi.
5
“
'. Tov^fAuaiq errj vi. Tuthmosis, annis ix.
’Apevuipif J tr y Ao'. vii. Amenophis, annis xxxi. Hie
ovrof oMcpvwv tlvai vopu%
o/*c- est, qui Memnon existimatus fuit,
y0f xai <p&eyyipitni A
t&
oj. lapis loquax.
rf. iiri A^. [& viii. Orus, annis xxviii.(xxxviii.)
<zAAp At;.]
'A yfuxifi-K cry ifT. ix. Achencheres, (Anchencherres)
annis xvi. (xii.)
{. “ASapi( try Ay. (x. Achoris v i i . )
* M ttpfii B. Din. f nia$Qay(xofowi B. J Amnophis Lat.
§ See Syncellus* list infra where this and the three following are given as
a dynasty of Ethiopian kings from the river Indus.
Digitized by Google
118 MANETHO’s DYNASTIES
A FRIC. SCAE.
‘P'- X-*Ppr,t erij i/9'.
»y* ’a x w '( eT,
18. ’ApfMayjf* (’ApJ/xrri()
err; e1
.
1 2 . Chebres 1 2 years.
13. Acherrhes 1 2 years.
14. Armeses 5 years.
i f . 'P a fie a in jf "
j
" ?•rof a . 13. Ramesses 1 year.
if' • ’AfieviM paS J (’Ajj.-
fxeyaxp) t n i i& .
16. Amenophath 19 years.
'O ftov erij <r£y. Altogether 263 years.
THE NINETEENTH DYNASTY.
’Ev»£axai8«xaT>j lwa<rrda
flairiXfvr A
istnroX
iTuv.
Of seven Diospolite kings.
a. 2e£ruf tTij »a*.
(f^. ‘PaJ/stxijj tn j f a 7.
7. ’A/*/«»e'(/>S>i«§ £Ti) x'.
1 . Sethos reigned 51 years.
2 . Rapsaces 61 years.
3. Ammenephthes 2 0 years.
8/. 'Pa/x£0
’<nj{ || (Pajttt-
<
r?«) ffij £'.
4. Rameses 60 years.
• i/iia iic A.—ifluiirls B.
f ^a /ji/xiarji A. B.— i'a u jj- ic tri;s Go. J A u iv & p Go.
§ i/u iy ifS il B. || Pa/iiarii Go.
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 119
EUSEB. SCAB. A RM EN . HIERON.
13.'. Xevxcpyt enj i f . K ara
tovtov M v ix n jf rijs e f A 'ty v n -
nv itopdaf -ray ’lovSaiav ^yrj-
<raro.
’Axtffif f erri ij'.
j y . X f f f i f (T3)
iV. 'A ppuxtf J o x a i A a -
eTtj e’. fteS" a e-n) c
’x
•njf Aiyvirrou ixmiruv xai
(pfiryuv t w abcfapby AXyvtrrov
(l{ Trjy ‘EA A aSa iu p n o K lra i,
K paT fa'af r e to o ’A pyovf @ a-
<ri\(vti ’A p y etvv .
K1
. ’Afjtpuarjf, § o x ai A i-
‘ywrroj, erij fij'.
if’. M(ioxptf || eri] ^t'.
'OpLOU (TUI TjJ.3) ■
(xi. Chencherres ann. x v i i i .) Ha-
jus state Moyses Judseorum ex
Aegypto egressus Dux fuit.*
x . (x i i .) Acherres, annis v i i i .
xi. ( x i i i ) . Cherres, annis xv.
x i i . (xiv). Armais, qui et Davonus
[lege Danaus], annis v : quibus annis
exactis, Aegyptopulsus, fugitivus ten-
dit ad fratrem suum Aegyptum; [lege,
fugitivus tendit a fratre suo Aegypto]
adiens Helladam, Argo capta, regnat
in Argivos.
x i i i . Ramesses, (xv. Remesses
l x v i i i .) qui et Aegyptus, annis l x v iii.
x iv . Amenophis, (x v i. Meno-
phes) annis x l .
Summa, anni c c c x l v iii.
T H E N IN E T E E N T H DYNASTY.
’EmaxaiSoutri) ivyatrrda
flaaiAcuv ( . A uitho\itSv.
a 1. X eS lu f (TT) v ( .
f t . P d \fa f% c t i j £ f ' .
7*. ' Apiu.(vup% 3!f** (’A/«-
Vixpdif) err; p i .
Decimanona dynastia. Diopolita-
rum regum v.
i. Sethos, annis l v .
i i . Rampses, annis l x v i.
h i . Amenephthis, annis v i i i .
* Iq the Annenian this paragraph immediately follows Achencheres the
9th; Achoris and Chencherres being altogether omitted.
t Ancheres Lat. J A p/ikt Go.
§ ipuja^is B.—*PoLpitGci)i Dind. || Mf/iuxpis Go.—’A/jihanfn Din.
Papt\fn)i Din. B. •* ’A /i/xn v fS if Din.
Digitized by L.ooQle
120 THttJTETHo’s OTTNASTIES
A F R IO . S C A L .
e'. (’A
*
T
rl *
'■
y'. 9otlvpi(,o trap' 'Qpvqpy
KtzXovpifyof ‘AXocdv-
8p a f * a « j p , i<f> o I t o “ iA iov
^aAa €T
ij 5*.
'O /m v t-n ) <rSl'.
’E*i t ov ou/Tcv Setrrjpov To-
puw M a n S r S $y*
* t i j ,P p * a l.
5. Ammenemnes 5 years.
6. Thuoris, wb» is called '-by
Homer Polybus, the husband of Al-
candra, under whose reign Ilion was
taken, 7 years.
Altogether 209 years.
In this second book of Manetho
are contained 96 kings and 2121
years.—Syncel. Chron. 59 to >75.—
■Euseb. 'Chron. 15 to 17.
* f . "AKxxvipos iifip i f ’ the. is thus given by several editors.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 121
EUSBB. SCAL. ARMEN. HIERON.
S'. * ?nj xr. iv. Ammenemes, annis xxvi.
I tap' 'O/Mjpf v. Thuoris, qui ab Homero Poly-
koX
oi!^m
m
(IIoX
i/jSoii;"
J
-({•'. r'.) bus vocatur, vir immanis roboris[lege,
'AAkjuSp*( irf)p, itf tt t) vir, sive maritus Aleandrsa,] cujus
"iX
ioy l d / M , t r y tempore Ilium captum fuit, annis vii.
’Oijuv «tij pW. Summa, anni cxciv.
’Ex) t o (W
xo<) ivtJ /S'. Insimul ex secundo Manethi tomo,
ripuv MawSS pa<T,\iu» hft. xcii. regum , anni mmcxxi.
«Tv ,*(*£■ [lege
• 'kftfittifArit Din. B. f T
l4X
u$9t Din.
R
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
THE THIRD BOOK OF MANETHO.
THE TWENTIETH DYNASTY.
AFRIC. SCAL.
EIKOYTH iwarrtla (hurt- Of12 Diospolitekings, who reigned
'kton A
iO
T
roX
iT
vv iff, o! i/3a- 135 years.
rikcwav e rtj fA*'.
THE TWENTY-FIRST DYNASTY.
Upon) y.a) (iKorrrj tiwtz<r-
t tta f3a<n\euv TavnSv i^ .*
a . Z /u vd rjf f (2 /J p $ rj()
?tij xj-'.
/3'. 'f'aucrmnjf J err/ ps*.
(rf-)
y . N«p(Axepri< cry S'.
S'. ’A/M
VUVpSl'lf § fTVJ &.
f1
. ’Otroxap || QOa-ixuy)
?T»J {-'•
f'. 'Ffva5C?f IT *‘
"1 &’•
Of seven Tanite kings.
1. Smendes reigned 26 years.
2. Psusenes 46 years.
3. Nephelcheres 4 years.
4. Amenophthis 9 years.
5. Osochor 6 years.
6. Psinaches 9 years.
• *?• Go. t Go.
I 'J'ou<r<»jis A.—'Vviatontt < ta n ir ris Go. § A^«mku^S«j Go.
|| A. Go. If ni>«^i)f Go.
Digitized by ( ^ . o o Q l e
THE THIRD BOOK OF MANETHO.
T H E T W E N T IE T H DYNASTY.*
EDSEB. SCAL.
EIKOYTH i v n a m l a j8«un-
\em AiaemAirSv i/S', si ifla-
a ih iva a n rnj pcq.
ARMEN.
Vicesima dynastia Diopolitarum
xii. regum, qui regnaverunt aunis
CLXXII.
T H E T W E N T Y -F IR S T DYN A STY .f
Ylfmrr] ko) (ixoctvj 8bkw- Vicesima prima dynastia Tanita-
r t l a Paa-iXttw TornS>ind. rum regum VII.
a'. IpUtiif, (X
pc'ySijs)fn) I. Smendis, annis xxvi.
I
*r*
'F iw w jf, rnj p a . ii. Psusennus, annis x l i .
y . K « t * p x ( p r i f , ( N a f x p -
X">k ) fnj S'.
S'. ’ApmitxpShf, J tnj S'.
‘Oa-oxdp, || «T
i) r-
«
r'. *'•
h i. Nephercheres, annis iv.
iv. Amenophthis, annis ix.
v. Osochor, annis vi.
vi. Psinnaches, annis ix.
* The rest of the variations of Hieronymous are given page 141.
f Scaliger omits thi s dynasty and places its kings under the 20th dynasty.
X B. || inyitp A.
Digitized by Google
124 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
AFRIC.' SCAL.
'Patxrtnrn* (Sowrewi*) 7. Psusennes 14 years.
it7i iS
'.'j"
'OfiM tnj p\’. Altogether 130 years.
THE TWENTY-SECOND DYNASTY.
Eixiwn) Serittpa Swstareia
B
oujSoo’TitSi' Saa’iA
ew
yS':
a . l i t t r / x ^ J rrtj tut.
.O
’. 'OeopSuv§ (OvtopSw')
* .
fT
lf<
€
'•
y . t’. / . 'Axxm tptTf *rtj
5
^. Tax£Xt*&i{|| (TaxfAXa>-
&({) enj <y.
ij\ S'. "AXA0
1Tf€?; tnj
&■
'O/JUM £T1
) fx’. (fXf'.)
Of nine Bubastite kings.
1. Sesonchis 21 years.
2. Osorthon 15 years.
3. 4, 5. Three others reigned 25
years.
6. Tacelothis 13 yean.
7, 8, 9. Three others 42 years.
Altogether reigned 120 years.
T H E T W E N T Y -T H IR D DYNASTY.
Tphrj xa» eixarri) Swotr-
Tt l a T a v itS v |9u eiX eu v 8'.
a'. IletovfidTyf (n«T»t-
fSiitrrrit) (tr j p i, i<f> ov i ’
Avfj.-
irictf r ix ^ y v p u ti).
f t . ’Oa-opxu ('Oa£pxu>)
(T ii i f , ov ‘HpaxXecc A ly v r r u u
xaXovtri.
Of four Tanite kings.
1. Petoubates reigned40 years; in
his time the Olympiads began.
2. Osorcho 8 years, whom the
Egyptians call Hercules.
* 2ouffmi|s Go. f A«\ Din.—A'. Go. m.
J e in r flp g B.—1%aiyy^>an Din.
§ 'OaaipSeup A.— 'OawqwS Go. || T a x(\X w S ii Go.
Digitized by Google
OF T H E KINGS OF EGYPT. 125
EL'SEB. SCAL.
£ . 'fotJO-tVWJt, €T>| X* .
A RM EN.
vu. Psoseones, annis xxxv.
'OjMU 6T1J pX1. Summa, anni cxxx.
THE TWENTY-SECOND DYNASTY.
EJxotrrr/ Sc u t tp a St/vaorckx
B o v /H o u ttitu v fa a iX e u v rptuv.
a . c t t j xa'.
f t .
/
CT1J 1C .
Vicesima secunda dynastia trium
regum Bubastitarum.
i. Sesonchusis, annis xxi.
i i . Osorthoe, annis xv.
y '. Tax«XA«&»f J r n j < y . in. Tacellothis, annis xm.
'OjKOU €T1J Summa, anni x l i v .
THE TWENTY-THIRD DYNASTY.
E/x o c t t ; Tp/rrj SuvowTc/a
T o w t Sv fia<ri\€uv rp tS v .
a1
. ncTovjSatfT^§ ct t j xe1.
(**'•)
Vicesima tertia dynastia Tanitarum
trium regum.
i. Petubastis, annis x x t .
^ . McS* ov *Ofl'epp&dy
(*0e o fia v ) c r y $’• ov *Hp a -
xXca AP ytfvnO i lxaXca*ay.
i i . Post quern Osorthon, annis
ix. quern Herculem appellarunt
Aegyptii.
* Din.— fftffwyyujffif B. f Din. B.
t TaxlXoftij Din. B. § Hitou/S&.ons Din.
Digitized by Google
126 MANETHO’s DYNASTIES
A
FR
IC
. SC
A
L
.
y. Vanno
E
{Inj i\
V. ZijrtTij W . *
‘O
n»v <
tij irS
".
3. Psammus 10 years.
4. Zeet 31 years.
Altogether 28 years.
THE TWENTY-FOURTH DYNASTY.
TerdpTy x al «Ix«rri) Stc
y a r t t l a .
Bo'xxvp‘<
"\(phxvpn) 2at- Bochchoris the Saite reigned 6
ttx In) r'i ty' ipvUr iq>
- years, in whose reign a sheep spoke.
S^yfuTo.
THE TWENTY-FIFTH DYNASTY.
HiUTTy] xal fJxocttt;Suvcut-
T t / a AJ&toway j3a<riVjuv rpiuv.
a '. SajSaxay, J alyjxd-
Xwroy Bo'xxw
fu' § cxatiffe
ZSrra, xal IfldaiktMtv enj
Yf0<x«S«||
u 'o{ tT t) IS'.
y. Tapxof tT
tj «/ ())'.)
'O/xeu tTij n'.
Of three Gthiop kings.
1. Sabacon,whohaving takenBoch
choris captive, burnt him alive, and
reigned 8 years.
2. Sebichus, his son, reigned 14
years.
3. Tarcus 18 years.
Altogether 40 years.
THE TWENTY-SIXTH DYNASTY.
'Extij xal tlwrtri ivyaa- Of nine Saite kings.
T tla SeuTur^y f}curCKiuy ly -
y ia .
* k V . B. f £0
•fflopaatrvis B.
1 (S^V
X
0!" B. || B.—S iin x ‘ 1 Go.
1 SaBBixivv Go.
If KrcuTBt Go.
Digitized by Google
OP T H E KINGS OP EGYPT. 1*7
e u s e b . s c a l .
y. ‘ ’
afuwi? «Trj
A RM EN.
in. Psammus, annis x.
‘O/mv tryj !*&
'. Sumnia, anni x l iv .
THE TWENTY-FOURTH DYNASTY.
E
<xoar*} rtraprr\ ivyar-
T c/a.
* (Box^fi?) 2a/-
n)( fry) ftX. l<
p
‘ ov apvloy
l<p&ty£aro. [i/M
V fry]yw
S
'.]
Vicesima quarta dynastia.
Bocchoris Saites, annis x l iv . Sub
quo agnus locutus est.
THE TWENTY-FIFTH DYNASTY.
E/xoffT)} yrffATrrri hjyatrrela
A lfru n u y P o u r r p i S v .
a . Y a^dxiiv, )"0{ Bo'xw-
piv edxjjuxXwrov iA«» “
txaxxre
Vicesima quinta dynastia regum
Aethiopum trium.
I. Sabbacon, qui captivum duxit
Bocchorem, et vivumcombussit; reg-
%3rra, xal iPaalXevny try) navitque annis X II.
ft. 2 f«pj0{ J vil( fTTI 1/9*. i i . Sebichos ejus filius, annis x i i .
7 . Tapaxo; enj x*.
‘O
/X
flueryj
h i . Taracus, annis x x .
Surama, anni x l iv .
THE TWENTY-SIXTH DYNASTY.
“Exttj ka) dtuxrrrj hwaa- Vicesima sexta dynastia regum
r e la 2a(T uy fiactXfuy V. Saitarum IX .
* Kiy%tu(is Din. t ia B ix iy Din.
| IiB‘X ^ t Din. B.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
128 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
ABRJC. SCAL.
a!’
. ZTecpiva.T7]q irrj
/ ? • Nexeif/a( • ? T 7 j 5- '.
/• Ntx«“ f erij ))'.
S'. J
/xiTtxo?) eTij vS’.
«. Nf%ati Seifrepof e n j { '.
oItoj elXt r y t ‘U favirakrju. xaJ
’I«axa?§ to* fiouriKea. al-^ux.-
’
Kurot 1
1 Pilyvmm airriyayf.
1. Stephinates reigned 7 years.
2. Nechepsos 6 years.
3. Nechao 8 years.
4. Psammeticus 54 years.
5. Nechao the second 6 years. He
took Jerusalem, and carried Joachaz,
the king, captive to Egypt.
r'. un&Lf ertpcf cry
U
-
Ovsuppii; tTyj ift*, f %po-
aetpvyov aWmjt iui^f ’Am i-
piaiv 'Ifpot«raA.i)/x o! rijy ’Iov-
8alat MXoirei.
6. Psammuthis 6 years.
7. Vaphris 19 years, to whom the
remainder of the Jews fled when
Jerusalem was taken by the Assy
rians.
t)\ "Apuia-tt; cnj (US'.
3*. ^raf^wxffnrn** ^ta (
'Opov fTr\ pt. xai y-r\vai; j-'.
8. Amosis 44 years.
9. Psammecherites 6 months.
Altogether 150 years and six
months.
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH DYNASTY.
'E|98ofwj xal e’
lxotrni 8uva<r- Of eight Persian kings.
r e la j"f' IIepafit p a < ri\(u t t{.
• A. B.— Go. t •*X.*a B.
J 'Fa/u/ii'rixof Go. A.—40
W‘(iT
U
X0f B. §Go.
|| Go. m. If iirl B.
•• a ftfia y ip tn ii Go. ft B
aciX tla Go.
Digitized by Google
OP THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 129
EUSEB. SCAL.
a. *A
pjiepis (’A
AiSltmp erij i
j
S
'
.
/S
'. STHpaviiSif * tr))
7 '. N ex ^ "? <tij r*-
S'. N«xa « «fi| 1/.
'frape/xirixU"j- c tjj / « '.
ARMEN.
I . Ammeres Aethiops, annis xviu.
I I . Stephinathis, annis vn.
h i . Nechepsus, annis vi.
iv. Nechao, annis vi.
v. Psammetichus, annis xtiv.
i4. NfXO« terhepof fTij f'.
elTOf tiAt Trjv 'Icfoya-aXtj/n, kcw
’I»aX*f+ T^> |9a«riXe'a a»x-
ptiAerre* t!( A ly v m e v A irrjya-
yer.
5”. Sfapepeo vS i( erepop, i
x a i '¥appuT iX fl( "j" « n j <?'.
>)'. Ovatppu; (O itu p p rif) en)
w'. 5
? erpea-ttpvyev iXot/injf
into ’Aairuplem Trj( 'Ic p e v ra -
Ayipe ol t u v ’IovSala * vm A o i-
xei.
&
*. "Apue<ri( ?rij pef!.
vi. Nechao secundus, annis vi.
Hie cepit Hierusalem, et Joachaz
regem in Aegyptum duxit captivum.
vii. Psammuthes alter qui et Psam
metichus, annis x v i i .
vni. Vaphres, annis xxv. ad quem
confugerunt ab Assyriis Judaeorum
reliqui ex Jerusalem.
ix. Amosis, annis x l i i .
'Opeev t ti) p ly '. Summa, anni c l x v ii.
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH DYNASTY.
E<Wt )j ipiipeej iwarrtla Vicesima septima dynastia Persa-
ntpeur Pae-tAciM r{. rum regum VIII.
• IrtQ e u & n s Go.— Ir tty itfa it Din. B. f V otuptuxog Din. B.
J 'iwiiyjxX Din.
S
d by C j O C K ^ I c
130 M ANETHO S DYNASTIES
A FRIC. SCAL.
d. KapPAr/tf ?tij (' ril; 1. Cambyses reigned over Persia,
iavrw fia.<riktla.; IIt/xrw
y i- his own kingdom, 5 years, and over
Paai'hevatv Aiyvmm err/ Egypt 6 years.
P'. daftiof 'Trrdrvm etij 2. Darius, the son of Hvstaspes,
A;-'. 36 years.
y . Heplwi pdytxi fnj xa'. 3. Xerxes the Great 21 years.
S'. ’ApzdPayes ("ApraPd-
w)s) ?'•
4. Artabanus 7 months.
t'. ‘ApTa£(p£r)f ?t >
j u a , > 5. Artaxerxes 41 years.
Eejgfigs f«jvas 8ms. 6. Xerxes 2 months.
5'. 2oy8tayo{ fc?y<*{
ij'. Aaptto$ Hep&v«n; »&
'.
'O
/j-ov(Tij pxZ', pdjya( 8'.
7. Sogdianus 7 months.
8. Darius the son of Xerxes, 19
years.
Altogether 124 years and four
months.
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH DYNASTY.
E U
u xt t t i oyimj HvvaaTela.
‘AuilpTttf* {'AixvpTaTof) Amyrteus, the Salte, 6 years.
2fltiT1)S «T1) s-'.
THE TWENTY-NINTH DYNASTY.
’Eyari) x a iV ix o T T T j S w a o —
T t i a . Mfy8»j<r»«y jSflw iA taiy -J-
8 ‘.
Of four Mendesian kings.
* Afi6grauJi Go. f Mtvi^crioi $affi\»7e D in .
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF T H E KINGS OF EG Y PT. 131
ECSEB. SCAI>. A BM EN.
a. KauPvni; Uet «/**- i. Cambyses anno regni sui xv.
t<
r T
?<&
VTWfiatnUlat ifia- [lege v.] regnavit in Aegyptios annis
<r*X*van Alyirrrov (T
rj y • III.
P. Mdyoi, nytu; £. II. Magi, mensibus vii.
y. ^aftloi, (ttj Af'. iii. Darius, annis xxxvi.
V. Htpfa o Aafxlm, (til iv. Xerxes Darii [filius] annis xxi.
<
x a .
’A fia £ ip £ r if [o M a*po-
w ] «"
>#
»
'•
P-
ij'. 2oyti<n»of, puj*a{ 5'.
i)'. Aape~o$ o H ip io v, t r y
i f f .
'O fu/v i n ) pyi • piyvf( V .
v. Artaxerxes, annis x l .
v i. Xerxes secundus, mensibus ii.
v i i . Sogdianus, mensibus v i i .
v i i i . Darius Xerxis [filius] annis
xix.
Summa, anni cxx, et menses iv.
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH DYNASTY.
Eburnj iyHr] ivyauncia. Vicesima octava dynastia.
'kpeupTaits* 2afnj« ?tij, Amyrtaeus Saites, annis vi.
THE TWENTY-NINTH DYNASTY.
Hruxrrri inarr) Iwaarda Vicesima nona dynastia regum iv,
M
o&
jo-wi ficurt>jiif V. Mendesiorum.
• A/ui(tins Go.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
132 MANETHo’s DYNASTIES
AFRIC. SCAL.
a . H t< ptpin)(* (Ncxfpi-
T1
)«) in ) r '.
P . “A x u f ‘( i n ) t y .
y . i n q a !.
S'. Nt<popln)( X (N«^«pf-
n,f) /*?»«« 8'.
1. Nepherites reigned 6 years.
2. Achoris 13 years.
3. Psammuthis 1 year.
4. Nephorites 4 months.
. . r - » •i •*
'O /m S i n ) S'. Altogether 20 years and four
months.
THE THIRTIETH DYNASTY.
Tpiaxeorij S v y a r r e /a 2f-
jSenvrSv fitw ik ittv rpiSy.
a . NrxT«x«jS)){ i n ) r q .
P . Tt«f €T)J p .
)/. NoctomjSo^§ rrij <
>
}
'.
'Opuiv in ) A))'.
Of three Sebennyte kings.
1. Nectanebes 18 years.
2. Teos 2 years.
3. Nectanebes 18 years.
Altogether 38 years.
THE THIRTY-FIRST DYNAST^,
Hpuri) xa> rputxorrr) Sv- Of three Persian kings,
yaarcta IIfp<rSy fUcurikivu
tpuiv.
a . T
Ox°{|| cix°<TT$ i m 1. Ochus ruled Persia twenty
vt)( ia r n n i p u u X t l a f Tltpiruv years, and Egypt 2 years.
I f i a a t k e w a A lyvirrov t n i p .
(/•)
• Go. f B.
J Hi<pop6rif A.—Ni^o^ttjj Go.
§ N
»>tT«>/|fi»js Go. || B.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 133
EUSEB. SCAL.
a!. N
«4*piT
7J<, (Tlf r-
?• 'Ax“p
»
«
»lti\ ‘y •
y . 'fapcfiov&ij, «t o< o'.
S'. Ne</xp/Tij{,* /MjyafS'.
( . MoC3k> rros a1
.
'O /u v tT ij n a 1. x a i pt?«< 8 .
ARMEN.
I. Nepherites, annis vi.
ii. Achoris, annis xm.
h i . Psammuthes, anno i.
iv. Muthes, anno i.
v. Nepherites, mensibus iv.
Summa, anni xxi, et menses iv.
THE THIRTIETH DYNASTY.
Tpiatcoari) H vyav-rtta 2t-
f3cyvvTuy j9a<r<Xe«v rptSy.
a1
. N fxTayc/3i]{, ( N t x r a -
y*P‘< f ) «t>)
j
S
'. Tt'aif, ?tii f t .
y . Nexra»tj3i)?, (Ntx-ra-
J ) CT1
) i)'.
'O fM V €T7] X •
Tricesima dynastia regum trium
Sebennitarum.
i. Nectanebes, annis x.
ii. Teos, annis i i .
h i . Nectanebus, annis v iii.
Summa, anni xx.
THE THIRTY-FIRST DYNASTY.
TpisoWT*; irpurri h vya a rcla
T ltpaZy [/Saa-iXtwv rpiav.]
Trigesima prima dynastia Persa-
rum.
a. “Ox>( (T
OjC»<§) (ixtxr- i. Ochus, qui vicesimo regni sui
t S fV
f»r?{ nepo-£» ^a- Persarum anno, obtinuit Aegyptum
a i u l a i x p a r tT rSjf Alytnrrov annis VI.
* I
errj r*
* amQ i(‘Tiil Go.
§ Din.
t A. J Din.
|| apffif ivyou A.— ifc r ir fy m B.
Digitized by G o o g l e
134. M AN ETH O ’S DYNASTIES
A F R IC . SCAL.
P- 'Apar^f(“Apoyf“
Clxtv)
V /
€T7] y .
y. Aapucqctti S'.
'OflOV CTIj y TO/AOV p j .
2. Arses reigned 3 years.
3. Darius 4 years.
And the whole number of the years
in the third book 1050 years.—Sync.
Chron. 73 to 78.
Digitized by Google
OF T H E KINGS OF EGYPT. 135
EDSEB. SCAL.
$ . » ’Af<nj$|| ‘O^otJ
rrij S'.
y . M eS3 or A apao( c n j If.
* 0 r 3AXeSa>Spo( M atuSur
xadeIact.
Tb St * t o u rp h o v ropuiv
M o n th s.
A RM EN.
ii. Post quem Arses Ochi [filius]
annis iv.
iii. Post quem Darius, annis vi.
Quem Alexander Macedo occidit.
Omnia haec ex tertio Manethi
tomo.
Digitized by G o o g l e
CANON OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT:
FROM JOSEPHUS.
SE V EN TEEN TH D Y N A STY .*
a. SaXarif erij <
&
'. 1. Salatis 19 years.
f t . B
lJW
V €T7J
y. 'Ana/paf err) Ay',
?'•
S'. c t >
j f a ’.
’IayJa; er»j K
ai
2. Beon 44 years.
3. Apachnas 36 years and 7
months.
4. Apophis 61 years.
5. Jamas 50 years and 1 month.
fiijva a .
y*. “A
<
r<
ri( cTyj ptf, xai 6. Assis 49 years and 2 months.
^•
EIG H T EE N TH DYNASTY,
a’. T
c&
^uixrneri) xe, xal 1. Tethmosis 25 years and 4
fiijvat S'. months.
j9\ Xcfipvv ?ti) ty'. 2. Chebron 13 yeafs.
y. ’Afuyw
<
pL( ?ti) x', xal 3. Amenophis 20 years and 7
^. months.
S'. 'A
)jje<
T
<
r!\s cnj xa', xal 4. Amesses 21 years and 9 months.
prjyctt &■
e. M €ttj i/S
*
, xai 5. Mephres 12 years and 9
,uijya{y . months.
* The various readings to this catalogue are given infra. See Manetho on
the Shepherd Kings.
Digitized by Google
JOSEPH U S ON TH E KINGS OF EG Y PT. 137
fJ. My](ppafJUiV^cixrt<; trtj
xal fArjya< i .
&/AZrif (Ti) S ', Kai
ttfv a i; i) .
1
7
'. ’A/zAe^uf eri) X’, xa!
fJ-yyay i .
&. rOpo( try X f', xai /z!j-
*«{
'A y ty x p y i try) i f f , xai
f«jvaa •
1a. Pt&UTH; try) & .
‘P- 'A y fr m w try ‘.S'.
xai fAijva{ (f.
y. ’A
x<7O
T
W
«^ ?n» £
'>
xa) /iyjya( y .
X . ‘Afloat? try) 8, xai
/Ayvet a*.
PafAtir<ri)( rro? a x»i
fAyyaq 8‘.
if*. 'A pfA ttrayy MiafA/Mu
try) Sr1
, xai fA yvat p .
iC,’. ’ApU tutpif try) i f r , xa)
f*?"*?r'-
hj’. 2^&s«ri{ xal P a fjttr-
oys*.
TtS/Autrii; •yip jSao-i-
X ttf ?rt l£ r itT a y (e l mlpttvtf).
’A*l 8« tcltwv fA tra ^v r a y
/Scvrikta y y e n ' a i r i y I m
6. Mephramuthosis 25 years and
10 months.
7. Thmosis 9 years and 8 months.
8. Amenophis 30 years and 10
months.
9. Orus 36 years and 5 months.
10. Acenchres 12 years and 1
month.
11. Rathotis 9 years.
12. Acencheres 12 years and 5
months.
13. Acencheres II. 12 years and
3 months.
14. Armais 4 years and 1 month.
15. Ramesses 1year and4 months.
16. Armesses the son of Miam-
mus 66 years and 2 months.
17. Amenophis 19 years and 6
months.
18. Sethosis and Ramesses.
Jos. contr. Ap. I. 15.
Tethmosis was king when the shep
herds went out of Egypt. From these
(the shepherd) kings there intervenes
a period of 393-f’years to the two bro-
• Qy. 2lSuis S xa) Vapiirjric, who is Ramesses.
t The sum of the 17 kings of the 18th dynasty amounts only to 333
years. The reading 393 is however confirmed by the extracts in the following
page. I am indebted to Mr. Cullimore for the observation that the deficiency
of 60 years occurs in the 7th and 11th reigns which ought to have been each 39
years. This correction, which may be found in some of the other lists, makes
the Canon completely harmonize with the Hieroglyphic dates.
T
Digitized by Google
138 JOSEPHUS ON THE KINGS OF EGYPT.
thers Sethos and Hermaeus of whom
he says Sethos was called Aegyptus,
and Hermaeus Danaus. Sethos after
he had expelled Hermaeus reigned59
years. After him his eldest son Ramp-
ses reigned 66 years.—Jos. contr.
Ap. I. 26.
t^ibxoV«x (rttrfuovTaTpia cn
poexf1 r u r S
i'o itc h p u r
xai‘Eppuxlov, Sr Tor /j u t 2c& »y
A jy v n o t t o t Sc "Eppoaior A i -
raor pttToropuur&ijrijJ tfrrjtrir.
*Oy l*.f3a.\ur o 2c&a( if2a<rt-
Xeuccy (Tri r& . Kal pier’ a v-
r ir o npea-fSvtepoq r u t vlur
aC toV Pdpi\prj( f$-'.
In the 16th chapter Josephus has the following—
A
rjK
orScItmr fo ray ctprr It is manifest from a computation
of the above-mentioned years, that
the Shepherds (our ancestors) were
driven out from Egypt, and left that
country three hundred and ninety-
three years previous to the departure
of Danaus to Argos.
poerur fo u r tov xpirov <rvAXo-
ynr9erro( Sri o! rutkoipoaoi
iroijucvc;, ripoerepoi Sc vpbyoroi,
Tpur't xai irerrjxorra xai r p ia -
ko<tIoi( irpo<r9er c r fa ir , fo tr j f
A ly v r m v dto O vK a yerref, rtjr
% upar ra vyrrr irp>Ki]<rar, ?j
Aavaoycif “A pyo( acpU eirBai.
And in the 2d chapter of the second book:—
M a rtS S ( pur ya p x a r d rrjr Manetho says that the Jews (i. e.
Tc9pLU<Tio< fia a iX tla r dvaXbvx.-
y y re u <frt]<nr {£ Aiyi/irrov to v (
’lovbaiovq, npo fo u r rpia.x.0 -
<rlur irtrrpiorTaTpiur ztjq elf
“A p yo ( A a rc u v <fnrfiq. Av<rl-
poa%o<; Sc xaTck E or’
/piptr tor
jS a v iX c 'a , t o v t c i t t i t tpb fo u r
yfiJ u r ivTCLwalur. MoXay
Sc xai a/./.Ot ttref uq auroTq
cScfcy. '0 8c y e ird rru r tcurro
ra zo q 'A itiu r u p fo a zo Trjy e£o-
Soy axpifiuq narco TTjV (S^ourjv
'0 \vp .n u 3 > a , xai Tavzy\q cro<
ciVai r p u ro r , i r $ <fnjm K a p -
jfijSoyato trm eq e n n a a r .
the Shepherds) left Egypt in the
reign of Tethmosis three hundred
and ninety-three years before the
flight of Danaus to Argos. Lysi-
machus that it was in the reign of
Bocchoris, i. e. one thousand seven
hundred years before. Molo and
some others place it as seems good
to them. But Apion the most cor
rect ( ironically) of all, fixes it de
cidedly at the first year of the seventh
Olympiad in which he says the Phoe
nicians founded Carthage.
Digitized by Google
CANON OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT:
FROM SYNCELLUS.
AirrnTOT v Ax™ M
e-
palat; (3aciXeccv enj.
a M e c r p a t / A * o xai Mij-
vrj$ *
! enj Xc\
ft. KovputyqJ cti] fy.
y . 9
Apttrrapxos e n j X8#.
8. hxayioc, errj X f.
c\ 'Aytifiypeupuv ’
err]
4 -
5*. 'O 'S.tfa.n^§ vy'.
ij\ Z ( a iy x im i$ enj f,8 '.
’Apat/xrif err) *&'.
“AjjLaats || enj {?.
u l . ’Axe< rcipSfm enj l y .
‘P - 'A y x a fx v c enj ST.
ty. ’AffuvrrK** en; 8'.
»8‘. Xa/Mtf eT
i) i/?. j“|-
it*. M»a/net{ J J en) i8
*
1
5
-'. ’A/*e<rija-i( en) ft'.
Ca n o n of the kings of Egypt for
merly called Mestraea.
1. Mestraim who is Menes: he
reigned 35 years.
2. Curodes 63 years.
3. Aristarchus 34 years.
4. Spanius 36 years.
5. 6. Anonymous 72 years.
7. Serapis 23 years.
8. Sesonchosis 49 years.
9. Amenemes 29 years.
10. Amasis 2 years.
11. Acesephthres 13 years.
12. Anchoreus 9 years.
13. Armiyses 4 years.
14. Chamois 12 years.
15. Miamous 14 years.
16. Amesesis 65 years.
* Sc. f M/njt Go. Sc.
1 Knipcttrii Go.— KMgoui Sc. § B.
|| Afitoait Go. m. Sc. If A^o(A s Go.—A
yjuprJS Sc.
•• Ayu/uffjjf Sc. t+ *r'. Sc.
Xt A p tela rti $m %i\ is substituted by Go. Sc. and A. for the 15th, while the
16th is left vacant, 14 years being assigned for the period of the reign.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
MO SYNCELLUS* CANON
Oi<7K * tTIJ
iij". 'P a -fu a y i € tt) x^y.
I&*. *P«/«O-(r0/*€>^< "J" £T1)
It'.
x '. O ia ip A p y f J ? tjj A a'.
x a '. 'P a /ttc m fa -e u f § t n j
* 7 •
xjS1. 'P a p * a a a .fiiv u || exrj
.y.
x y . 'P a /M c a y "lo vfia a -
a y e-nj X ^ .
x8'. 'P a fA ia a y O ia tp p ev* *
t r y ySs ' .
x t’. K o ^ a f u f f t r i j e '. J J
Toi/TU Tjj tT ti TOU
xer paaiXevfraurroi Koy%ap€u$
r y t A iy v n r o v in ) 7jj$ 5v-
vcMTTelcu; t q v K w i m v XeyofJttvov
xi/xXov netpa. 7cp M ayeS 'y, a nb
70v itpu70v j
f3oun\€U{ xa* ol~
k k t t o v M en p a lfjt. § § ry\q A l~
/ » M V ||
'ytXrron, VKypovyroti la y y / f
fSam X cav x t'.
x f '. 2iX /tij< trij i&‘. a tfu -
TO{ t£ » f x i ^ . SuyaTTCi'af
w apa M aytSfjf.
x^ . B a/u v t r r jaS’.
xij'. ’ATa% ya$ (a y X{-'.
x S '. “ Axpm pif t r y f a '.
A'. Z t'd u ; tTtj y'.
17. Uses 50 years.
18. Rhameses 29 years.
19. Rhamessomenes 15 years.
20. Usimares 31 years.
21. Rhamesseseos 23 years.
22. Rhamessameno 19 years.
23. Rhamesse Jubasse 39 years.
24. Rhamesse the son of Vaphris
29 years.
25. Concharis 5 years.
In the 5th year of Concharis, the
25th king of Egypt of the 16th dy
nasty, which is called by Manetho
the Cynic Cycle, was completed in
25 reigns a period of 700 years from
Mestraim the first native king of
Egypt.
26. Silites 19 years, the first of the
6 kings of the 17th dynasty accord
ing to Manetho.
27. Baeon 44 years.
28. Apachnas 36 years.
29. Aphophis 61 years.
30. Sethos 50 years.
* OVfflj G o. Sc. jtayU«ff0yU«»)S B-
J B .----&Vfflfxipi\S Go. § PftyU«0l$?Cta»$ Sc.
|| Pafi/x$ff<rctft%
v&
( Sc.—:Pa/xiOffijutivw Go.
pa/x/jiic<n\i oufiaar) B.— Va/uaai) toD BaijTff Go.
• • ?A/ua<rooCa<ppof Sc. f f x6y^apn( B.— K6yya.ptz Sc.
+* r \ Go. m. §§ M«<rrp±/x Go.
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
OF T H E KINGS OF EGYPT. 141
X a'. «t i) xSr1.
xara ’
IuovjiriMv, xara &
€ Toy
Mave&£ enj /*&'.
X /9'. ’A tn jS ' "] «t ij k *.
OStoj,wpotre&ijxe Twy &i-
au rw y t « { e Ivayo/tevaf, xa't
M aCrov, £f tpourtv, ixpypui-
Turfy T^e ijfupSn, cAlyvrrta-
x«( biavrif t £ ' /i«rov riiupuy
vpotoStw pC
Tpor!fievo(. ‘E * i
aoroS o |viayfit Samii/Seif
rAott( ixkydri.
31. Certos 29 years according to
Josephus, but according to Manetho
44.
32. Aseth 20 years.
He added the 5 intercalary days to
the year : and uijder him the Egyp
tian year which had previously been
reckoned 360 days only was increased
to 365. Under him also the calf was
deified and called Apis.
FROM SYNCELLUS AND EUSEBIUS.
SYNCEL. EU SEB.
k y . “A fu m if oxou T & /J.U -
<r<5 ( t i j x ^ . §
“A /M xrif xf‘.
Xi*. X tfip u y c t t ) t y .
XejSpuv t y .
Xf*. etyj id .
'Apf/M pnii
X{-’. ’A/itytnJt c t ij ia*.
'A jM vavft to t.
A RM EN . J H IER O N .
i. Amosis ann. xxv.
. Amosis xxv.
li. Chebron ann. xui.
Chebron x i i i .
h i . Amenophes xxi.
Amenophis xxi.
iv. Memphres x i i .
Mephres x i i .
• KvfTos Go. t B.
1 In the Armenian Canon of Eusebius, a Theban dynasty, which he calls
the 16th, is placed as the first, to which is assigned a period of 190 years. This
is followed by the 17th dynasty of the Shepherds which lasts 103 years. No
names are given in either. The first part of Hieronymus’ old Latin version of
Eusebios is lost The lists therefore both of the Armenian Canon and of Hiero
nymus’ version commence with this the 18th dynasty ofDiospolites. The names
of the 32 kings given above, are merely those of Syncellus in the Greek
opposite.
§ ytfl Go. || A /ilfiis Go. Sc.—i/utftipii B.
Digitized by Google
142 SYNCELLLUs’ AND EUSEBIUS’
SYNCEL. EU. SC.
X$'. MurippayiiuxlSrua'it enj if-*.
MiircppayfiouSucit if'.
XijMi«ripprif tn; x y ’.
ARMEN. HIERON.
v. Mispharmuthosis x l v i.
Misphragmuthosis xxvi.
Mimppn){ en) x^'.
X&’. enj XS*.
To iiS ya a ii x 9 '.
jJ . ‘ApU VU tjAlf €T7J X
8'.
'Apt(yu<p9i( XS.
OJro< o ’A y e y u tp S if* e<niy
o Me/xycoy elvai foytCpytcyo^ x a i
tp& eyyoyeyof XlStof.
A l& to m f a ito ’IvSoC ito z a -
puv avaxrt& yte$ upof Tjj Ai-
y v r c a fx tjtr a y .
y tJ . 7ftpo$ /*y.
Eo-Xupof ( i f .
p P • ’A x t ' .
AX«KW« « •
py. ’A S a p if x?y.
A S v p if x5'.
A
*S'. X e y x e p n xy'.
Xfvxffij? xr'.
/«'• "A x W « t ‘'"I V- ij
vi. Tuthmosis ix.
Tnthmosis ix.
v i i . Amenophthis xxxi.
Amenophis xxxi.
Hie ille Amenophthis est, qui
Memnon ipse creditus fuit, lapis lo-
quax.
viii. Orus x x x v i i .
Orus x x x v i i i .
ix. Achencheres x i i .
Achencherres x i i .
x. Athoris ix.
Achoris v i i .
xi. Chencheres xvi.
Chencherres xvm.
x i i . Acheres v i i i .
/ »/
y.ai A.
Axepvi v- Acherres v i i i .
x i i i . Cheres xv. Cherres xv.
p;-'. ’Ap/xaTot o x a i A a - xiv. Armais qui et Danaus v.
\ •/
va.0$, tT7J V .
ApfxaU &. Armais v.
yX,'. 'P ajM trarn S x a i A'- xv. Aegyptus l x v i i i .
ywtTo<% Itl.
Pay.to'oyjf fy. Remesses l x v i i i .
x v i . Menophis Menophes x l .
* k f i f i t v o B.
f Ax 'p fo Go-—The four above are given in both the Greek catalogues as
Ethiopians. J A iyfa rto i Go.
Digitized by G o o g l e
CANONS OF THE KINQS OF EGYPT. 143
SYNCEL. EU. SC. ARMEN. HIERON.
paf' 'A
/M
W
IM
pu* «T1) l/ .
A/xtyutpif i{.
pS1
. &oiSvpi( tXf•
&ovapi(
v*. N c x e ip u f
*a'. 'i'apfJXvSlii; t y .
'i 'c & u f / x u S <y.
(S
'......................8'.
....................e'.
>
7 '. k^to{J ir •
J&.rjpToq •
v8\ ‘Pa/xif/if [X€f.
PufA\pi<; fjm'.
vc*. *A
fjt€y<ryj{ 0 xa* *A/x/x€-
xr*.
x{-’.
vr’. ’Oxopa; *
8*.
O x v p ^ t ‘S'.
XIX DYNASTIA.
I. Sethosis Sethos l v .
I I . Rampses Rainses l x v i.
h i . Amenophis x l .
Amenophtes x l .
iv . Amenemes xxv.
Ammenemes xxvi.
v. Thuoris v i i .
Thuoris v i i .
Thuoris Aegyptiorum rex ab Ho-
mero Polybus vocatur maritus Al-
candrae. De eo meminit inOdyssea.
XX DYNASTIA^ ANNIS CLXXVIII.
50. Nechepsos 19 years.
51. Psammuthis 13.
52......................4.
53. Certus 16.
54. Rhampsis 45.
55. Amenses who is Ammenemes
26.
56. Ochyras 14.
*$*• 'A/«x85{ ||
A,«8?{< .
XXI DYNASTIA TANITARUM.
I. Amendis xxvi.
Semendis xxvi.
* i/nr< i^rit A.—A/ttrxp'li Go.
t Neither of the Latin versions give the names of the 20th dynasty. The
names substituted above are merely translations of the Greek of Syncellus
opposite.
1 K^praij Din. § A/mf/nts Go.—it/in f/m s A . || A /ittiis Go. A.
Digitized by L v O O Q l e
1 44 SYNCELLUs’ AND EUSEBIUS’
SYNCEL. EU. SC.
yrI . S u lu p if * c r y * .
0oifa>
p<
{ / .
0?ti f ir r i y } n a p ' 'Ofayppp
IliXvfSos "j- 'A X n d y ip a f J irrjp
in ’O ilta r tly . <pepi;ucvef.
»&
*. " A fr u d it o xal to v tr a -
ybf ( t t j nr/. ’E<
j>
' «! m r u o i
Kara. Trjv A y y v itn y iy tv ovto,
fjy ititu y t y t y h t f in a i r y npo
•jWtou.
A SruStif o xa> tm ltrupof xij.
f \ Kfvxfwjj X&.'
K(VY.evijs X&\
i d . Ovenitpyi § ctij/x/?.
O ie n e tfn if X&.
£jS\ 2ouiraxei/i|| «tij X
8\
2«waxei/* Aij9ua{ xai Ai-
S lo n a t xai T'pw yXoitfras m ap-
«Xaj9e tt;s 'IipovraX y/*.
Eowraxffy* X
8.
{y\ 'i'a jeyo f x«'.
2emfnvepof d .
«f. Ne<pextpnj{ f ‘.
N erfxyjprjf f ' .
£&. ' A f j . f i S'.
AfAfJ*y&<pi( Sr.
i f '. Xairitf it'.
X a t r y f d .
££. ’J’
WjpK S’.
I f n a x ff S'.
A R M E N . H IE RO N .
ii. Pseusenes x l i .
Pseusennes x l i .
i i i . Ammenophis ix.
Amenophthis ix.
iv. Nephercheres iv.
Nepherchenes iv.
v. Osochor vi.
vi. Psinaches ix.
Osochor vi.
Spinaches ix.
* § SoCwfrjs A . B.
X c?Xxa>Jfos A. B.
II 2eu?r«x«)/A Go.
f n o x io u s Vulg.
§ oiMnttyif B.
A/Jiunaj^rii Go.
Digitized by L,oo<?le
CANONS OF TH E KINOS OF EGYPT. 145
STNC51. E U . SC.
£>)'. n«T0tlj9«TT)J{ tn j J*i‘.
rifTou/3o£trT>j{ pX.
{y. 'Oaufitn y .
Oaifiun S',
o'. 'irdfA
pu>
( i.
'i'dfufwf i.
oa'. Kiy%
api<xa'.
Ko^ajjif xaf.
oj?. ’OciipStvy i«
*
.
Oaipdtnit.
try. Taxa\2<pt( * ty.
Taxt\jS<pif ly
X . Bo'xx»fi( ^ fc8
>
. J
Bo%
upi$pX.
Boxj;b^i{§ AJyvnuif tto-
pu&trti, i<
p
’ oZ A
oyo$ iptloy
tpiiyiaa’O
ai.
A R M EN . H IE R O N .
v ii. Psusennes xxxv.
Psusennes xxxv.
X X II DYNASTIA BUB AST ARUM.
I. Sesonchusis xxi.
Sesonchosis xxi.
ii. Osorthon xv.
Osorthon xv.
h i . Tachelotis x i i i .
Tacellothis x i i i .
X X III DYNASTIA TA N ITA RU M .
I. Petubastis xxv.
Petubastes xxv.
i i . Osorthon ix.
Osorthon ix.
h i . Psammus x.
Psammus x.
X X IV DYNASTIA.
i. Bocchoris x l i v .
Bocchoris Saites x l v i .
oc'. 2 a/3 dxuv Al$mp || «tij
lafidw * iff.
OZro? too Bixyppiv cuyyju£ku~
too XajSoSo X firta txa va t* .
Of'. 2*j3iJX«o ij?.
ZtjSifxav ijS*.
T a p d iiix x'.
Tafc^xK *'•
XXV DYNASTIA A ETH IO PU M .
i . Sabacon Aethiops x i i .
Sabacon x i i .
i i . Sebichus x i i .
Sevichus x i i .
h i . Tarachus xx.
Taracos xx.
• T a x ik ifiii Go.—TaxiXoifif A. f 6i*X’lf ‘s B.
t M
* 8- § B. || B.
U
Digitized by G o o g l e
.141) SYNCELLUs’ AND EUSEBIUS’
SYNCEL. EU. SC.
try. 'A iia y s t r y h y .
ApfidSy \ y .
oft'. "ZreipiyuSlys x$\
2rf<piy< l^i( td,1
.
it1. <y*
• Nex'^ot ‘7 ■
l t d . N«x*“ ’I-
Nex<»aj9 l i
l t I f a f i f i y i i X H "t" *
8.
V a ii/ilT ix fis ih1
.
try ’. N«x«« 0 4>apau S'.
Nex«a^ f t • • S'.
ir8'. V d jifiiv S h i J trepos I
xal 'i'a /i/iy T ix c s § <?'•
'i'a/ifiavSlyS iC,'.
i t s . O ia tp p if AS*•
O idtppys X8
*.
it? • “A fiu a if }/.
A jia m s
"E u s toi/tod y i S r Alyvir-
r i m fia m X tta 8ia.py.iaa<ra ev
h iv a ir te la s i , jSao-iXevm 8e
ir r' j i i t m , J3<rtd lito Ka /ifiv -
rov xa&Dfi&y in! t ov it?
fiatri'kfvaurris r y s M e a r p a la s
ARMEN. HIERON.
XXVI DYNASTIA SAITARUM.
i. Ammeres Aethiops x i i .
Ammerres Aethiops x i i .
ii. Stephinatis vn.
Stephinatis v i i .
h i. Nechepsus vi.
Nechepsos vi.
iv. Nechao vm.
Nechao v i i i .
v. Psammedichus x l iv .
Psammitichus x l iv .
v i. Nechao vi.
Nechao secundus vi.
vii. Psammuthes alter qui et
Psammetichus xvn.
Psammitichus alter qui et
Psammus x i i .
vm. Vaphres xxv.
Vaphres xxx.
ix . Amosis x l i i .
Amasis x l i i .
x x v ii. Aegyptiorum dynastia Per-
sae. Obtinet quippe Aegyptum sexto
regni sui anno (quinto) Cambyses ;
efficiuntur autem usque ad Darium
Xerxis filium ann. cxxiv. (cxi.)
The kingdom of Egypt after hav
ing continued 2211 years through a
series of 10 dynasties and 86 kings,
was subdued by Cambyses in the
reign of Amosis the 86th king from
Mestraim, who is the same as Menes,
• NaxtyJAf G®.
f Va.fj.[jJTtyo: Go.—vJ/aa/i/u/ri^oj A. — B
.
J yfd/u/uo'jSrjs A.—\f/a/uou%r)s B. § Va/xfjiiTtxlt Vulg.—>|/a/«T<x&
s B.
Digitized by Google
CANONS OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT. 147
SYNCEL. EU. SC.
A lydirrov X&P*S *A[xd-
arKO TOV XpuTOV CtVTVV
M€(TTpa,tfX TiV x a ) M v)V€V{* . .
..........................vEfceiyc §f rj A i-
yviTTOt; into Tlep<rx$ e n cotf
A a p e L v to v B tp (o v, “E a r iv
oi v x £ dwa<TT(!a, xa& ’ vj*
R e p e a l ix p d rr je a v At t o e
cT ovf K a p fiv a o v .
tt^ . K a p fiv a v fi t r y y \
itv f. M a yoi aZefapo) Zvo
t t ^ . A ape7o$ tT<JTd<rvov
exii
V . 5 €p£rj<; CTTJ x '.
W . *ApTafiavoi; <£'.
'ApTa£cp£riq eryj p a ,
b y . P '.
So'yBiavcf fujvetf
be . AapeToq o NoS'of errj
A ’
lyvTtToq aTterryj I I epauv
Zevrepp erei N odov A dpeiov.
V - 'A uvpra7o$ la 'ir y j f
*
/ /
trij r .
*AfjLvpra7o$ 2.o at v \$ ? .
4?'. N e ^ x /riK r '.
ti« p f p n il( j-'.
ARMEN. HIERON.
of that part of Egypt which is called
the Mestraean region...............Egypt
remained under the dominion of the
Persians till the time of Darius the
son of Xerxes. The 27th dynasty
therefore is that during which the
Persians held Egypt in subjection
from the 5th year of Cambyses.
87. Cambyses 3 years.*
88. The Magi two brothers 7
months.
89. Darius the son ofHystaspes
36 years.
90. Xerxes 20 f years.
91. Artebanus 7 months.
92. Artaxerxes 40 years.
'93. Xerxes II. 2 months.
94. Sogdianus 7 months.
95. Darius Nothus 21 years.
Egypt revolted from Persia in the
second year of Darius Nothus.
XXVIII DYNASTIA. J
'i. Amurtaeus Saites vi.
Amurtaeus Saites vi.
XXIX DYNASTIA MENDESIORUM.
ii. Ephirites vi.
i. Nepherites vi.
# E u . A r. allow s only 2 years to C am byses, reckoning th e 7 m onths o f the
M agi as one year. H ieron. gives him four, om itting the M agi in the Canon,
f 21 E u . A r. om its.
X T h e A rm enian reckons this and the tw o follow ing as the 2 8 th d ynasty.
H ieronym us divides them .
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
14S SYNCELLUs’ AND EU SEBIU S’ CANONS, * c .
SYNCEL. EU. SC.
bif. “
a xupn H
rr; iy.
Axufif ,y.
bfy. 't'&ft/j.ovShs (S'.
’i'afA/MivSIf (S'.
p............ fiyjva(* 8
*
.
Mva( en) S'.
pa'. NexrawjSij? i\.
NcxTavef3y{ ij'.'j'
pj3\ NcxT^xjSof /S
', I tii
Te«{ /S’
.
r t - T «®f £'•
N*KTa»ej8®< «j'.
/>
*
'• Tnx««P
T
%»«
pc'. ‘Ap<nj( “O xov
S'.
Apa-rif S’.
pf'. A aptiof {
■
'
.
ARMEN. IIIERON.
h i. Achoris xn.
ii. Achoris x i i .
i t . Psammuthes I.
h i. Psammuthis I.
v. Nepherites menses rv.
iv. Nepherites menses iv.
XXX DYNASTIA SEBENNITARUM.
vi. Nectanebus x v i i i .
i. Nectanebis x v iii.
v i i . Teos i i .
i i . Teos i i .
v i i i . Nectanebus x v i i i .
h i . Nectanebos x v iii.
XXXI DYNASTIA PERSARCM.
i. Ochus ix.
Ochus x.
i i . Arses Ochi iil .
h i . Darius vi.
Arses Ochi iv.
Darius Arsami vi.
* Din.—Vulg. —Sc. in the Canon at the end gives it MoiSis fro,
+ n f. Sc. can.
Digitized by G o o g l e
CANON OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT:
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS.
MTeOAOrOTSI S
*airS*™*?
t o ftey v p u t n a p £ a i l y t A l-
y v i m v Seotff r e xa) f/pua ( trri
ISpayju X elvovra r S y p-vpluy
xai m r a n u a y /k lo v , xai
Zalman Sxcu.tCactt
8o{rClpov. 'Tit* aySpw vuy Se
■rijy xiopay jSejSacriXtEa&ai <pa-
<ny a773 pm piaio; cttj ftper/v
Xetm arr* t £ y v tr r a x u rx iX lo y ,
ftfX P 1 r W lxaro(rr?< xai oySoij-
y u trn jf ’OXufcoria8o{. xa3* rjv
y]U£ti p ey ■napefiaXeiMV el( A?-
yw rro v, ifia & lkcvc 8 t I1toX «-
/xaiiij, o »«o{ Aio'yt/trof xpr,pia.-
r i^ a y .
T m lru v 8t to jut* xX<r<rra
xarao-xtly t i j k a p x ^y tyxfip!m )(
fiaai\e7<;, Z k ty a i f A/S/oiraf
xai Ilc^o>
a< xai Max«8
oVa{.
Ai% tmaf fxfv ttiy ccp£at
S o m e of them fable that the Gods
and Heroes first reigned in Egypt
during a periodlittle less than eighteen
thousand years ; and that the last of
the gods who reigned was Horus
the son of Isis. They also relate
that the kingdom was governed by
men during a series of nearly fifteen
thousand years to the hundred and
eightieth Olympiad in which we have
visited Egypt which was during the
reign of Ptolemy who bears the title
of the younger Dionysus.
The kings of Egypt were for the
most part natives of the country, but
the Ethiopians, Persians and Mace
donians acquired the empire for some
short periods.
There reigned altogether four
Digitized by Google
1 50 DIODORUS SICULUS CANON
T e a a a p a s ov K a ra t o e(!j;,
a W a $k iia<TTTipuiTo(, ?T)j
t« TTayrjL fipaypr XeiorotTa T u t
XU! TpiUKOtTOL.
Hcp<ra( Se oiyrp-aurSai
KaftjSlfcTM
J rod fiairiXccof T0
<
{
oorXoif xaTatTT/xtpauevm i to
(6t0(, otetre orpo( to?; exa-rov
xai Tpiaxotra ctc&i, avt r aTf
Tut Alyvorrlut amaraaeo-it,
a ( ioroiytratro, (fjopeit ov tvtd-
fMtoi tijt Tpa^Tijra Tojf eVitr-
t eu rta f, x a i TTtt (If toii( i y -
%up!ov( Ocovf aj-efieiat.
’Eay^aTouf Se MaxtScI»a;
cip£ai, xai Toi/f ioro' MaxeSo-
t u t ef tTtj orpof to i( tiaxo<r!oi(,
xai ofiSopryxotra.
T o l( 8e Xoiorolf %potov{
airavraj SiareXecrai jSaaiXev'-
ovt«{ toj( x u p a f iy x u p h v f'
d ttp a ( [M t <|S8o/*ijx«yTa orpo(
to~( TCTpaxotrloif, y iv a ix a f 8e
o titr t.
MfTlX Tot; & fo l( T o ln t
otpuTot, tpouri B a T tA fv T u t t»j$
AlytSorrot Mijtcit,
’E£ojf He d p (a i X ty tT a t to v
orpodpojfietov /S a m X eu f to I (
aoroyotov( trio orpo( TOif oretrq-
y.otra tov{ a i t a t r a t , Uto] orXeiu
T u t •)(1iK iut xai T tT paxorrlut.*
Bova-ipif.
Ethiopians, not successively but at
intervals, the length of whose reigns
collectivelyoccupied a period ofnearly
thirty-six years.
The Persians, under the command
of Cambyses their king, subdued
the nation by force of arms. They
occupied the throne during a hun
dred and thirty-five years, inclusive
of the insurrections, which the Egyp
tians, unable to put up with the seve
rity of their domination, and their
impiety towards the gods of the
country, made from time to time.
Lastly reigned the Macedonians,
and their successors, two hundred
and seventy-six years.
All the rest of the time was filled
up with native princes, that is to say,
four hundred and seventy kings and
five queens.
After the gods, Menas was the
first king of the Egyptians.
After him it is said that two of the
descendants of the before-mentioned
king reigned, and they were suc
ceeded by fifty who altogether reigned
during a period of more than one
thousand four hundred years.
Busiris.
T
irroig&
xopT
ot m.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS. 151
Kai t S> t iv t o v ndXu be- Then eight of his descendants, of
70'nw oxtu, to» TeX
fvT
a~o»* whom the last,* who bore the same
ovra 1 £ nrpvry, name with the first, founded the city
tpa<
r1 xT«rai -ty]vin i fun Al- which by the Egyptians is called the
yvmluv xaX
ovf4€
i*
p
> iroX
iv city of the Sun or Diospolis, but by
ini Sc tSv 'E
X
X
ijyuv0ijjSo{. the Greeks Thebes.
Toy t o u t o v t o S j9*T
iX
ea>{ The eighth of the descendants of
avoyovuv oySooc 0 onto to v this king, who bore the simame of
ita rp o i nporayopcv9c)< O ir/o - his father Uchoreus built the city of
pii( exTine, ito'Xjy Mepupiv Memphis, the most celebrated of all
iiupayfnarriv r£y xox1 A?- the cities of Egypt.
yVnTOV.
A»8fxa yevea) fia<ri\toiv. Twelve generations of kings.
M
tlpiij' ’Endoai t?{ no- Myris, who dug the lake above
Xfo>
( XifMrrjv Spv(t. the city of Memphis.
‘EirrA y m e u fiao-tXtuv. Seven generations of kings.
Iiaoutriv, <pa<rh, inupa- Sesoosis, whose exploits were the
ncrtaraf xal fiey'urza*; t £ » most renowned of all the kings be-
itpof airov To^sif im r«Xe- fore him. He fitted out a fleet of
o-ta-Stai xal irptifeif. EJ( puv four hundred ships upon the Red
’Epu&
aySfaAaava*itnitr- Sea; and subdued all the islands,
TfiXt trroX
oy ye«y retpa- and all the parts of the continent
x«ri«y, xal rd( t i vijo-ovf bordering upon the sea as far as the
it t o ? ; tinot^ xaTexTi“
TaTo, Indies. And he marched with a
xal rij( rjveipov ta vapa &
st- mighty army by land, and reduced
Xarray pU
pij xaTfo-rpctf/aTo, all Asia. And he passed over the
ftcxpi tvs ’Iy
&
<
x
i?
<
. A £ro( Sc Ganges and conquered all the Indies
//era tijv Svvaptcvv nc^fi try even to the ocean, and all the na-
nopciav noir^nufyo;, yuirctr- tions of the Scythians, and most of
Tpctparo nct<rav t*A?/oy. the islands of the Cyclades. He
x«lt o v T
otyyijvw
oT
a/xov then invaded Europe and overran
xal rijy’IviSixijyim
jX&
tnairav all Thrace: and Thrace he made
• Diodorus does not here mention the name of this king, but describes the
magnificence of Thebes, and the sepulchre of Osymandyas. Scaliger confounds
him with Uchoreus. Others suppose him to have been a second Busiris.
Digitized by v ^ o o g l e
152 OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT.
!»< *Sxit*to, xal to . r a t h n v -
SjSy Hdnp, na) t a t KunXaSav
r/jrav r k ; xX eliTtetf. A ia fik ;
8* t){ rtjx Ei)f4
rtH)v, xai S«-
ficot A r a r a t t \ t Spanvjt, %a1
opia rrj; r r p a n a ; r o iy a ip u to ;
i t ryj 0ppxT], crnjK a; n a r t r -
n tu a a e t i t xoAAoT; r lx o i; r a t
a u ra l n a r a n r r filtr a t. Ti;v
Si ff i p a t A r a r a t t i ; xal
rp ia n o yra fxcpnj h itX a t, a na~
> iu n t A l y v m o i Hopiov;, iv e -
a tr p itt a t a r i H opuipxaf. e ri
S t rpCa x p lf roT; rp ik n o tra
fia n X fr lr a ; in r p o a tp irta ;
i^eA in e r i t filer. {/ttoK m itrat
a ir'o t r a t cuuarw.
I S t r i a n ; B tJrtpo; I r o t
tpoapyffuJmti v lif.
rioXXol f i a n X i t ; p iera rou *
ro t.
“A p ia n ; , I u a ra u p a ri)9 t);
a xo 'A n n r a to v A tilo xo ;,
'An.rura.trn AiStm p.
M itStp; A lyu rtn o ;, o n a t
M afpo;. Tatpot 5< a i r y n a r a -
m tiS a r t r o t otopia^opurot
AafivpivBot.
’AtapyjcL r titr t y e t tu t.
X i r t a , * I x<xl U p a rtv ;.
‘Ptpupi
'E * ri S itS t(a yro r ^ t i p -
xV (3ari).cT; apyol. oiiSev a v -
r u t ipyov oti>'< rp a £ i; Irropla;
boundary of bis military excursion.
And he set up pillars in Thrace and
in many other places, commemorating
his conquests. He also divided Egypt
into thirty parts, which the Egyptians
call nomes, and appointed nomarchs
over each. And after a reign of 33
years he destroyed himselfon account
of the failure of his eyesight.
Seso6sis the second ; the son of the
preceding.
Many kings succeeded him.
Amasis, who was conquered by
Actisanes the Ethiopian.
Actisanes the Ethiopian.
Mendes an Egyptian, who is the
same as Marrhus. He constructed
the building which is called the La
byrinth as a tomb for himself.
An interregnum for 5 generations.
Cetna,* who is Proteus.
Rhemphis.
Seven insignificant kings reigned
of whom no work or deed worthy of
history is handed down except of one
• Kiriif Cetes. Marg.
Digitized by Google
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS. 158
of/a T ta p a le itr a i, tXtjv evo;
NeiXe»{' oxp' ol av/xPalvei tox
hota/MV avopuiaSai Nei'/.ov to
TtpcTcu xxXcZijUycy Arywrrox.
"OySoof 81 /3o u ri\el( yfxo-
/xfves Xepdrif* S MtpupiTiif,
rjp(e /xer t r y irrxTijxoxTa, x a -
r a ir x e v a n 81 tJjx pityurripi
tS w T piSt flvpa/xliuv.
TeXeur^TavTof81roS
Xf4){ T
O
V
T
O
U 8»{8tfotTO T
1JV&f-
X’l* o i8«X^»f Kerppyy, xal
SJpftx trtj if »po{ to~{ ore»-
njxovra. "Eyioi 81 (pttc'iv
owe aieXif& i dXX* wax n a p a -
XajSeix Tvjy apxw oMfiaXfl-
fjLtyov X afp'7x.
Mvxepiyof (ox Tixlf ji*lx Xf-
f7xax ompia^ovmy) ax toE
wonja-axroj rijv irpoTtpav IIu-
pa fii8a, o3to; 81 lirijSaX«f«xo{
T p n ijy xcnaurxtv& ^tiv, v p ir c -
pov iTfAei/TTjTfv ijirep t o epyov
eXaSe roxTcXciax.
Txe^wsxfof.’f-
Box%o/»{ o rrufihf, Tve<pax~
dov tllO(.
TIoXXo~( 8’ v<nrtptv xfivtn
lf}ao’lXtv<rc TvjfAlyijVTov. 2a-
jSolxux, t o /«x y£»o( ax Al-
duxfi.
'Kta.pxj.oL i n ' tv /) 8i/o.
0< 8a8exa ipyciMvef erri it.
^ a fX fu a iX H o Xatnj;,
ax Tax iS’ riytpiitut.
Nileus, from whom the river is called
Nilus, having formerly borne the
name of jEgyptus.
The eighth king was Chembres
the Memphite. He reigned 50 years
and built the largest of the three
Pyramids.
After his death his brother Ceph-
ren received the kingdom and reigned
56 years. Some, however, say it was
not the brother, but the son of the
Chembres that succeeded him, and
that his name was Chabryis.
Mycerinus, whom others call Che-
rinus, the son of the founder of the
former pyramid. He undertook to
raise a third, but he died before the
completion of the work.
Tnephachthus.
Bocchoris the Wise, the son of
Tnephachthus.
After a long time Sabacon reigned
over Egypt, being by race an
Ethiopian.
An interregnum of two years.
Twelve chiefs 15 years.
Psammitichus, the Salte: who was
one of the twelve chiefs.
• X lfiftit. Marg. t r r tfx x * * . Marg.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
154 OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT.
"T arepov T e r r a p in yeveaii;
*Airpirjs Ifia ei'h eva ev err; §va)
wXc/w r u v e ix o n ' xai ir rp a y -
yaXr)\fe)<; ireK evryjaev.
*A/xa<n{. BaaiKeijiraq $*
V / \ N /
ctyj itevre npo$ rot$ nevr^-M ^ra,
x aT «i7T fo//€ r iy filov, x a S ’ ov
Xfnvoy Ka/*jSu'<7r]< o t5» Ilff-
<r£v jSao’iXetf dazpa-revaty
M Tijy AiyuTTrov, x a r a t o
r p in v ero ( t5}< t£ ip iw n j(
x a ! rplT ijf ’OXv/M iidSof, y v
ly lx a a ia Z tty Ka-
papivaTof.
After four generations reigned
Apries 22 years. He was strangled.
Amasis. He died after a reign of
55 years, at the very time that Cam-
byses, king of the Persians, invaded
Egypt, in the third year of the 63d
Olympiad, in which Parmenides the
Camarinaean was the victor.—Lib. II.
CANON OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT:
FROM HERODOTUS.
TON tArjva, t ov a p u n y f3 a -
a C K tia a m a Ai-ywrTou.
M*tA 8f toEtov, xareXeyov
oi Ipecf dx jSojSaod aXX uy f2a-
<Ti\riuv Tptrpuurluv to xal T;i^-
x ty r a ovyi/xaT a. iv to9’ok!t7)op
i
8«ytyeyiri a y S p im a y, Ix r u x u t-
Sexa jJ-ly Afolmtp ri<ray, /xly
8« yvrrt Iviyfiipiy' oi So <zaXoi,
aySptf AiyvxTiOi* tSj 8e y v -
y a ix i oSyofxa r:y rjnp dfia a !-
A tvtrt, Ttm tp rjj B a/3vX im ji,
Nirwx p if.
TSy St SAXay p aal>.Iw , oi
ya p t'Aeyty oi!8f/*/ijv tp y u y a t i -
M enes was the first king o f Egypt;
After him, the priests read out of
a book the names of 330 kings. And
among these were 18 Ethiopians and
one woman a native Egyptian: all the
rest were men and Egyptians: and
the name of the woman, who reigned
also over the country of Babylonia,
was Nitocris.
Of the other kings nothing re
markable is in any way recorded ex-
digitized by Google
FROM HERODOTUS. 155
i t ( n , x a r ‘ o i t h tly a i Xapcitpi-
•njToj, xXijv iy o f rev iv y a T o v
a ir u y M otpiof. ^Juvr\* hpv£ai.
Z tv u o T p tf. r ov tk ty o y ol
Ip ie f ipZ T oy p u v rX ototvt pca-
xpoTvi ip u y S tv r a l x t o v ’A pa~
f3lov xo'ATjv, t A ( aapic t>jv
’’
E pt& pip S& K aatrav xaroixij-
pctvovf xa T a ca rp tfyivZ la i. ’E r-
TevSev tc u f o t I t u ic-nlxtro
I f A ty v m o y , o-TpuTiyv «$XXij»
\ocjS«» ty c a w i tile Trj( vpidpov,
t a t “S v o f t o i / i n M i i yjol t ol -
vptfyopLtvof. ’Ex tr j( 'A a l f f I f
Trp E i ^ » x ) j y Ic a fia f, t o iif t e
2xifta < xa.TtvTpi-fya.TO xai
t o v ( d p y ix a c .
tc p u y o TOV HtV&ITTpiOf.
“A y tp a M tpuptTijy, t S xara
Try t a y 'EXX^mw y K u v v a y
aSre/ta U perrea clvai.
‘PaptfyhiToy.
M t r a 5« toS to v , f l a v i-
A ytvvayrd v f y tm X i n a , i f
T txaay xaxoT rfca iX fy v a i'
xaTaxXijtcravTa yUp puv it& v-
T a t o o 'pic, ip u T a pcty trtp ta f
d w i i u y iortpiac' Ilvpocputa
x a ro c v x c v d v a i’ x a i fiocai-
X cvvcu atyTrpxayra t T t a .
Tex d&iXtpeby aCrov X tip -
prjya' IIv p a p u ia ro trjv a i' x a l
fia c iX tv T a i if xal Treyrrj-
xoyra tT ta . Toi?t«>( ircb
cept the last Maeris. He dug the
lake.
Sesostris. The priests said that
he first sailed with a fleet of large
vessels from the Arabian gulph, and
conquered all the nations bordering
upon the Red Sea. And that from
thence he returned to Egypt, and
with a mighty army he traversed
the continent (of Asia) subjugating
every nation that opposed him. From
Asia he passed over into Europe and
reduced the Scythians and Thracians.
Pheron, the son of Sesostris.
A Memphite, whose name, accord
ing to the Greek interpretation, was
Proteus.
Rampsinitus.
After him reigned Cheops, who
inflicted upon them every kind of
evil: he overthrew the temples, and
was the first who put a stop to the
sacrifices. He founded the pyramid,
and reigned 50 years.
Chephren, the brother of Cheops.
He built a pyramid, and reigned 56
years. The Egyptians, out ofhatred,
decline to name these two kings, but
x
Digitized by
156 OF THE KINGS OF EGYPT,
pUrtOf oi x a p r a S’tAowri Al-
yihtTioi oyopid^ay, aXAa xai
r d ( m p a p tH a f v.a'htovtji m i -
piiyo< 4iX»Ti0f, o; tovtov Toy
Xpo'yoycveiM xnjyea xara TaZ-
i a to. X'x-pta.
MmepTytv Xcoxof *aZtia'
TlvpaiA.Hn St xai ooTOf ane-
X/ireTo, mKKoy cXao’O
’o) tov
irarpof.
“A r v x iv .
“Avuo-iy to» rv<p\ov. ’Ext!
t o o r 6
0 {SaarXci/oyrof, t \ d a a i
In' Aiywrroy %cipi xroXXjj A i-
SiWaf tc xai SajSaxuy twv
AlSulnoiy jSairiXca.
’Ai&ioira 2aj9ax£y jSaa’
t-
Xei'fiy A’
cyifirrov tV’ t Tfa ney-
T)JX0»Ta.
riaXiy “A j i w i v tgv rupX ov.
Seduy, roy ipea too 'H -
(palrrov. ’Etc’Aiyvmoy iXatf-
yeiy <rrpaToy pityay Eayaxd-
ptfiay jSaarXca 'Apafimy re
xai 'Ae<rvplo>y . . . . ’Ev&aoTa
a7Tix;u(vo6f, TotVi Ivayrlotai
a iro T m I v i x u S ty r u f vwcT^f
/xiif apovpulovs, Kara pity <fya-
yitiy Toof <paperpeSya( a i-
Tfoiy, Kara Se x i Tofa, irpof
So t£» r/Sojy Toe o^aya,
wore t5j farTtpaiv (jxvyiyTay
iripeay yvpyuy ht\uy ntaioiy
iroXXot/f. ’Ano too npuTov 3a-
call the pyramids the work of the
shepherd Philitis, who grazed his
flocks, at this time, in that coun
try.
Mycerinus, the son of Cheops.
He also left a pyramid much less
than that of his father.
Asychis.
Anysis, who was blind. In his
reign the Ethiopians invaded Egypt
with a mighty army under Sabacos
their king.
Sabacos, the Ethiopian, reigned
50 years.
Anysis the blind, again.
Sethos, the priest of Hephaestus.
In his reign Sanacharibus, the king of
the Arabians and Assyrians, marched
against Egypt with a vast army..........
And when Sethos and his attendants
arrived at Pelusium, during the night
a multitude of rats attacked their ene
mies, and gnawed the bowstrings from
off their bows, and the thongs of their
spears; so that on the morrow, as
they fled unarmed, great numbers of
them were slain. From the first
king to Sethos the priest of He
phaestus, are 341 generations of men.
Digitized by Google
FROM HERODOTUS. 157
c riX e o f, i f t o v 'H ( p a l r r o v T oy
Ip i a t o v t o v T o y T c \e v r a ~ o y
f l a c n X e v r a v T a , f t l f y T t x a l
T e tn r a p a H o y r a xstl T p i f M a t a f
a y S p v v v y y e y e d f y e v i f t e y a f . . .
O v t u i y ftv p lo tc r l r e x a l
\lo i< n , x a i otpof, Tf«jxoo-io«n
T f x a l T « T < r e p d x o y r a * e'h ey o v
&«o» a y S lp tn c o e th ia o v i t y a y e -
y e a ^ f a i . ’Ev T o iv v v TOVTtp t S
Xpo'yoi T C T p d fU f e M y o y i £ r f i e u y
T o y y K io y a v a .T tT t.c ti' e y $ a re
y v y xoT aS i/fT oi, ly & e v T e v 8!{
b c a y r e T k a f x a l i y S e y y v y & y a -
TcXXri iySavTa 81{ * « » -
$&
veu.
A v u S e x a fia u riK e ip elf i v d -
8«xa y-epcf it^ fr fjftir r ji T ij f Al-
y v i r r o v .
'i'ctfj.ffrjTiyaifelfTuy8a8exa
ifScurlhevcreKlycmov Teaaepa.
x a l icevrr^oyTol CTea’ tay Ta
evof8corTa Tpn\xoyra“
AT^aroy,
TyjfZ tiplriffteyakfvno\iyvpotr-
YatTTiftevofinokiopyee, if t o i£-
ei\e.
^dzfifnjTi'xou 8< N fxw { n a i f
iy e v e T O , xai ip a c r tX e v c r e A l-
y i h i T o v c
’xxaiSexa ire a ‘ Of tjj
S i u p v x i iite y flp r ic r e rcp u T O f t j
i f TT\y ’E p v d p ijv h i ’
K a a a c ty
(pep o va rj. Kai ’
S .v p o im ite ’
ltfj o
And in all these 11,840* years, they
say no God has made his appearance
in the human form. And during this
time they affirm that the Sun has
twice risen in parts different from
what is his customary place, that is
to say, has twice risen where he now
sets, and has also twice set where he
now rises.
Twelve kings reigned over Egypt,
divided into twelve parts.
Psammetichus, one of the twelve,
reigned 54 years. And in the 29th
year of his reign he beleagued Azo- .
tus (Ashdod ?) a large city of Syria,
and took it by siege.
Necos, the son of Psammetichus,
reigned 11 years. He was the first who
undertook to cut the canal through to
the RedSea. He also marched against
the Syrians and overcame them in an
engagement at Magdolus (Migdol?)
* Herodotus, in the intermediate passage, makes this calculation from the
341 generations, allowing three generations to a century.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
158 OF T H E KINGS OF EGYPT,
Nexa\, <ruf*fia'Avy iv M a y -
evixijtrt- fu c ta St tjjv
KaSuTiv iro'XivT>j{ 2v-
ptt]<; totia a f fwyaXrjv t(Xe.
'Va/Au<$ Ntx£ Trait e£ eTta.
’Avp!ri( o 'i'aix/MOf, irtvTt
xai tixoai ctta.
“A p ia trif T(<r<repa xal Tttr-
otpaxovTa trta.
"i'ap.pL-qyrtCi; i ’Auatritu;
n a i f tf ftrjyaf.
And after the battle he took Kadytis,*
a large city of Syria.
Psammis, the son of Neco, 6 years.
Apries, the son of Psammis, 25
years.
Amasis, 44 years.
Psammenitus, the son of Amasis,
6 months.
CANON OF THE EIGHTEENTH DYNASTY
OF MANETHO:
FROM THEOPHILUS.
Years. Months.
a» *A[xaat; ervj xt xai f*5- 1. Amasis 25 .. 4.
vaq • •
(F. X
cjSpSv 1
‘7- 2. Chebron IS
y'. *A
[A
€\6(pi<
; . • 1
X . ?. 3. Amenophis .. 20 .. 7.
8*. *A
iA
(<
rarj f
xa. a. 4. Amesse 21 .. 1.
t. M^pvf tf'. S/. 5. Mephres 12 .. 9.
r'. M
ijSrpapifiuiv- 6. Methrammuthosis 20 .. 10.
Soai( .. x'. 1
I.
if. T
oo&
jtttu
o’
ijc y. 0
I • 7. Tuthmoses .. 9 .. 8.
■
r[. Aapupty<upi( A
'. (• 8. Damphenophis 30 .. 10.
S
f”
. ’
’tlpof At'. t'. 9. Orus 35 .. 5.
* This may possibly refer to Jerusalem, ofwhich the modern, and I believe
the Arabic name, is El Kods, from Kadesh, Holy.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
AND THE EGYPTIAN ERA. 159
Years. Months.
t'. Too'tov 81Svyazr/p i . y'.
ta. ‘A&ap)(* . . if?. y .
if?. X o ^(^( . . X'. a!,
ty. Scduf Mia/xpuii f'.
i8‘. 'Ap/iaiof . . 8'. (S’.
XtSruf . . a .
if'- ’A
f*€»axf>l{ .. iS'. f'.
i^. "J" tux) ‘PapeirinK.
10. Their daughter 10 .. 3.
11. Athoris 12 .. 3.
12. Chencheres 30 .. 1.
13. Sethos Miammu 6
14. Armseits 4 • • 2.
15. Sethos i
16. Amenophis .. 19 .. 6.
17. Sethus and Rhamesses.
P- 246.
OF THE EARLY KINGS OF EGYPT AND THE
EGYPTIAN ERA.
FROM JOSEPHUS.
nANTES of t £ y A ly v tfz tu y
j8aorXt7{oma Miva/ootoo Me/x-
<fuv ohcoSo/tijo-avTOf, o{ e z « r i
aoXXo~{ epirpoT&ev {yeyero too
irixiroo 'A fp d p u v pU-
Xpi 2oXo/u5vo{ or\tify u y I z S y
rpiawnrU iv xa! %i>Suy p itza ^ b
ittXy/XvSrfTuy, Q a p a S y e f Ix A tj-
drjray.
A l l the kings of the Egyptians, from
Minaeus, the founder of Memphis,
who lived many years before Abra
ham our ancestor, to Solomon, ex
tending through an interval of more
than 1800 years, bore the title of
Pharaohs.—Jos. Ant. lib. VII. c. 6.
FROM MALALA.
A irrn T in N si ijSao-fWe
z p a ro f /Sa<riXeo{ T i j ; tp v tijf
t oo X u u , ofoo NS t , Q a p a v , o
x a i Napayfii xaXoo'^«»o«.
T h e first king of the Egyptians was
Pharao, of the tribe of Ham, the son
of Noe: he is called also Naracho.—
J. Malala, lib. III.
* AI. f xal 'VotfAtaoTis trij i . Al.
zed by Google
160 OF TH E EARLY KINGS OF EGYPT
FROM SUIDAS.
H4AI2T02 o S<o{, xa* rv p .
‘Ep/MV @ a< jt\tiaayrop tip A t-
y v n r o y xoi SavoVroj, "H tp a ta -
rop n a p a X a p t^a v ti ryjy j9a-
trtXelay, ^jj-tpap q.%ti ip y e v e r -
6 a i t r y t ta tra p a ptyjyap £ .
yjpttpap 7}. ovx rjSfitra*' ydf
TOTt Aiytftrrrn ^wauTot? jj.tr -
prjaat dXXd tV ntplttiov rijp
rjfjtepap, iy ta v rly i \ t y ov.
Hepha est us, a God: also Fire. After
the death of Hermes, king of Egypt,
Hephaestus obtained possession of the
empire 1680 days, which is 4 years,
7 months, and 8 days; for the
Egyptians in those times were not in
the habit of measuring time by the
year, but called the period of the day
a year.— Suidas v Hephcestus.
FROM DIOGENES LAERTIUS.
A im iT IO I fwx 7hp Nel'Atv T h e Egyptians say that Hephaestus
7 tvt< r$ai ra T Z a "th p a u rro v' ov was the son of Nilus, and that he in-
a p ia i rpiXotrcKplat, r)p ro ip vented philosophy, of which the fol-
repoearurap, U ptap tln a i xa< lowers were called Priests and Pro-
•K
potprjrap. ’Aitb 8t rotlrm tip phets. From him to the time of
’A
XtfavJpov tov M
axfSo'va Alexander the Macedonian elapsed
t r a y elyai fj.vptd.Zap r ta tra p a p 48863 years, in which occurred 373
xai 'ly .ra y u a y p .ia b x r a y ia ta solar eclipses and 832 lunar eclipses.
t r y ifa x o r r a r p ta . iy tip yjXlov — Dtog. Laert. Procem. p. 2.
ittk tltp tip ytyttrO vu rp ta xo rla p
epl<tfjty)X<,yrarpt~p, rtk-ijyyjp St
m ra x o a la p rpiaxoyra&do.
Digitized by k j o o o i e
AND THE EGYPTIAN ERA. 161
FROM DICzEARCHUS.
AIKAIAPX02 h t iy a fM ia.
i n ’O<rlp&0 ( yuu ^IiriSof 7Clpoy
P a r iX ta tpytri y ty o y iy a i S t -
<ro&ipiy' * u m t y iv ta ftc u itto
p tv ir ji X tiu a -T p iio ( fla T ik c la s
ficXP‘ lo v NtiXoveiy in o
iy jf Ne/Xou ficuriX etas / A x t 1
•njs a ’OXvfJtiiaZof enj
c&
f tivai i a ncuna. opiov eirj
f i l t y , ? '. Ka< vifM vf St X e y u
AiKa(apx°< c o v in it& t/x ty a i,
poySeva ix X e h tiy ir tv n a ip u a v
i t x n y " io v to y a p f t i o a p -
■jyv tiv a i iX to ye£ la (. Kal
•tipuioy St tipr/Ktyao !Wo»§
in tfia ty a y avSpom ov. “AX koi
Si T o u r a tl? ^Clpov iy c u p t-
pm xn.
D ic ^ a r c h u s , in his first book, says,
that after Orus, the son of Osiris and
Isis, reigned Sesostris: and that from
the reign of Sesostris to that of Nilus
elapsed a period of 2500 years ;•{ and
from the reign of Nilus to the first
Olympiad 436 years ;J so that alto
gether the number of years amounted
to 2936. Dicaearchus, moreover,
says, that he established laws that no
one should leave the profession of
his fathers : for he believed that such
a proceeding would be the intro
duction of avarice. He was the first
who discovered the art of ridingupon
horseback. Others, however, at
tribute these things to Orus.—Schol.
inApoll. Rhod. Arg. Lib. IV. v. 272.
FROM ARTAPANUS.
APTAIIANOX Se fa c -iv Iv i y A rta fa n u s , in his work concerning
u p ) ’IouWow, ’AjSpaAji* i t - the Jews, says, that after the death of
Xcvnja-arTOf xa< io v vlov a i- Abraham and his son, as well as
io v M c/xrf/aa-SevuS, o/mlas Mempsasthenoth, the king of the
xai io v jSao-iXrojf i S y A ly v u - Egyptians, his son Palmanothes as-
* oaif Sc.
f Scaliger says, from the reign of Sesonchosis, or Sesostris, to the Olympiads,
X u /ir 446. Sc. § JVjtw* Larch,
was 2560.
Digitized by G o O g l c
162 OF TH E EARLY KINDS OF EGYPT,
Tiuv, ttjv Swatrrtiav itapa~
XaSeTv Toy viov airov IlaX-
U'iPp:9r’
y. tovtov 5e roif *Iou-
8aioi{ tpailXeof •npo<r<pip«r9ai.
Kal vpuTOv flit TTjy Kevcray
olxo8op»)<rai, to’, t« ^tt’ auTSj
Upon xa9iSpiaa<r9ai, (Ira tov
in 'HXiotnroXci vaey x ara-
cnccvacrai. TouToy 8e ytvni[<ra.i
Bvyaripa Mifflin, \n X-tneippy
rim nareyyvljirai, run ivip
Mipupiv ToVuy PatriXeifonri.
vroX
Xoi>$ •yap tot€ Alyvn-
rou jSatriXe&iy. rai/rtjy 8e
oreipay inapxoiia-av im flx-
Xeodai Tiyo{ tS f ’IovSa/uy
oraiS/oy, toSto 8e MiolVov oyo-
jxacat' iiro 8t r£y 'EXXijywy
auroy a>Spw9ivra MovtxTov
npairayiipevBrjvai' yeiiaBai Si
roy Mwiltroy tootov ‘Opipiuf
SiSamaXon.
sumed the crown, and he carried him
self with great severity towards the
Jews. And he compelled them first
to build Kessa and to construct the
temple that is therein, and also the
temple in Heliopolis. He had a
daughter whose name was Merris,
who was married to a king named
Chenephres,* then reigning in Mem
phis; for there were at that time
several kings in Egypt, f And as she
was barren, she brought up a child of
the Jews, and named it Moyses: but
when he arrived at manhood he was
called, among the Greeks, Musaeus.
And this is the Moyses who they
say was the instructor of Orpheus.
FROM PLATO.
TH2 S i in d d S e Siatunrpnj- T h e transactions of this our city of
r ta c irap* v\fuv in tojj Upoif Sais are recorded in our sacred
ypxpLfxaa'ivTxTax.io^i/Ja.vtri'v writings during a period of 8000
apA/Jup yiypanTai. years.— Timceus,p. 23.
* By Eusebius, Clemens, the Paschal Chronicle, and Cedrenus, the name is
variously written Chenophres, Nechephres, and Cheremon.
f Eusebius, also, in the Armenian Chronicle, expresses his opinion, that
many of the dynasties were contemporary, and not successive.
Digitized by Google
AND TH E EGYPTIAN ERA. 163
FROM POMPONIUS MELA.
I p s i vetustissimi (ut predi
cant) hominum, trecentos et
triginta reges ante Amasin, et
supra tredecim millium an-
norum states, certis annali-
bus referunt: mandatumque
literis servant, dum Aigyptii
sunt, quater cursus suos ver-
tisse sidera, ac solem bis jam
occidisse, unde nunc oritur.
T h e Egyptians, according to
their own accounts, are the most
ancient of men, and they reckon
in their series of annals 330
kings who reigned above 13,000
years; and they preserve, in
written records, the memory of
the event, that, since the com
mencement of the Egyptian race,
the stars have completed four
revolutions, and the sun has
twice set where he now rises.
FROM HERODOTUS.
AAAA t<; i f x a u f l<rii
Alywr-r/oicri 'H fa x A tijj' u ( St
a i n 't AeysiKTi, t r t a t a n iir-
ra xu ryf'K ia xal [xvpia
aty jSatnXei/a'avTa, I z t l r t lx.
tS S * I x t u S e S v o i SvuScxa
&toi ly i v ovto, ‘Hpa xX ea
t»a npufyiK Ti.
T h e r e is a very ancient God among
the Egyptians who is called Heracles :
and they assert, that from his reign to
that of Amasis, 17,000 years have
elapsed: they reckoned Heracles
among the Gods when the number
was augmented from 8 to 12.—Lib.
II. c. 43.
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS.
EINAI St tpa triv iiro 'O tri-
p tlif K«l“l{r»8o{ ew{ Trjf ’A \ ( -
fa»Sp o v t o v xT itr a v -
T h e y say that from Osiris and Isis
to the kingdom of Alexander, who
founded the city of Alexandria in
Y
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
164 OF T H E EARLY KINGS OF EGYPT.
to; Iv A
\yijT
T
C
[>t yv iiruvvfjuit/ Egypt, there elapsed a period of more
aviQv v&
kiv, ItXelu tm ptv- than 10,000 years; or as some write,
ptuy. w
j 5
*fvioiyp&
tpovtri,fipa* of little less than 23,000.—Diod. Sic.
yju \dnovTa t uv hiapivplut ico» ljb. I. p. 14.
Tpivyflduy,
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS.
OI 8« UpeTf run Pilyvitriuy
t w xpotov aito Trjp ‘HXiev /3a-
<n\da( irvWoyitfifutot, /«-
Xpi rrjf 'A\(£dy$pov &ia/3a-
<rftcf ei( 'Atrlav, (paa'ty
ixdpxay puiXitnd. trap
SirpivpicM yioilTpitrxiXlvv. Mv-
9oXoyov<ti Se xai tuv 9tuy Tovp
ptey dpxaiOTaTovp f}a<Ti\iv<rtu
n\t!u ray %iXiuv xa! 8iaxo-
trluy i t S y , To\jp 8e pttTaytyc-
trrepovp ovx iXattw t £y Tpia-
xotrtuy. ’Air/o-rov S’ ovto; toE
xX^9ovp Tuy irSy, Ituxtipmtn
Ttyep Xtytiv 4t» to naXai'iy
ousu t Sjp xepi Toy "HXioy xiyrj-
atup ixeyya<r/xeyyi<, trvvifittiyt
Kara Tijx Trjp fffAijwjf Tttplt&oy
iy « r9at tov lyiamly.
B u t the priests of Egypt, summing
up the time from the reign of the
Sun to the descent of Alexander upon
Asia, calculate it to he about 23,000
years. They pretend, also, in their
fabulous legends, that the most an
cient of the Gods reigned more than
1200 years; and those that came im
mediately after them in succession not
less than 300. Some of them attempt
to abate the incredibility of such a
multitude of years, by asserting, that
in former times, when the revolution
of the sun was not accurately ascer
tained, the year consisted of one re
volution of the moon.—Lib. I. p. 15.
FROM JOSEPHUS.
’A pUvoxpty y a p P a n X e a
itfo « &«<{, c y o p a , xa 'i
$ £ to v to xplvoy a ir o v Trip P a ~
tn x tla p ipla-ai w Toxu-rjirap,
He makes Amenophis king when
this event (the second invasion) oc
curred, giving him a false name ; and
upon this account he presumes not
Digitized by
C H A L D E A N AND EGYPTIAN DYNASTIES. 165
x o i t o i y t I t ) t S» aXkcav / 3 a -
Ci/.fi-y axpifiS-f T a e-ti] rpo<j-
n S e l < , t o u t o u p c ra x T e i t i
k i ; i*.vSo>Jrytuf, iniXaSoptevof
oT i z t r r a M a l o i f ?T€<tj
x ol S c x o o k tu mpirepcy Urro-
prpu y « y f < r & a i t 5 v I I g » -
p itm e(oSoy tip 'U p w o X vfta .
Ttdpu.'O’if y a p ijy /Saa'iX ct;
ere i^ r /te a r.
to define the length of his reign;
though in mentioning all the other
kings, he accurately gives the time of
each. Here, however, he invents some
fabulous relation, not remembering
that he had already stated, that the
exodus of the shepherds to Jerusa
lem took place 518 years before ; for
Tethmosis was king when they went
out— Jot. Contr. Ap. /. 26.
CHALDjEAN AND EGYPTIAN
DYNASTIES :*
FROM BAR-HEBRiEUS.
CHALD.fiAN KINGS. EGYPTIAN KINGS.
1. Nmrud .. years. 1. Phanuphis ............... 68
2. Qmbirus .. 85 2. Auphiphanus .. .. 46
3. Smirus .. .. 72 3. Atanuphus Kusia or
the Cusaean
4. Bsarunus Phrthia 4. Pharoun Brsnus-f- .. 35
or the Parthian 5. Pharoun Karimun .. 4
6. Pharoun Aphintus .. 32
5. Arphazd .. 18 7. Pharoun Aurunkus 33
conqueredby
Bilus the As-
Syrian.
* I have given these dynasties according to the Syriac orthography, and
placed them beside each other, as they are synchonized in the chronicle.
f The Syriac says this king succeeded Auphiphanus, for which the Trans
lator substitutes Atanuphus.
Digitized by G o o g l e
166 CH A L D E A N AND EGYPTIAN DYNASTIES.
ASSYRIAN KINGS.
1. Bilus .. .. 62 years. 8.
2. Ninus .. .. 52 9.
10.
11.
3. Smirm .. .. 46 12.
13.
4. Zmarus .. 38 14.
5. Aria .. .. 30 1.
2.
3.
4.
Pharoun Smunus ,. 20 years.
Pharoun Armnis .. 27
Pharndus the Theban 43
Pharoun Phanus
Pharoun Aisqus .. $1
Pharoun Susunus .. 44
Pharoun Trqus .. .. 44
Satis the Shepherd .. 19
* *
* *
Aphphus theShepherd 14
Mphrus........................12
Tumuthus ..................18
Amnphathis * . . . . 43
Pharoun Phsunu.f
• Amnphathis, in the narrative, is also called Pharoun. The chronicle says
that his daughter Trmuthisa, calledDamris bythe Hebrews, the wife of Knaphra,
was the person who saved Moses,
f Drowned in the Red Sea.
Digitized by Google
EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS
FROM
THE OBELISKS;
AND FROM
MANETHO, CHjEREMON, LYSIMACHUS,
AND OTHER WRITERS.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS.
THE OBELISK OF HELIOPOLIS:
FROM AMMIANUS MARCELLINUS.
'ApXflv dvo rot; Not/gu Btcp-
pcrjnvfxcva €%6i.
2TIX02 nPQTOS TAAE.
*H A I02 paxriMi 'Papeo-Ty,
Aetidtpijuai <
roi dvd vacav
qix.ov{a.£wjv fitTa XaP*f
Xfueiv. A
Ov *HAw$ <pi\€~, xai
’AtoXXajv, Kpazcpos 4n\a\rj-
Orji vio$ "Hpuwf, 0€oy€V€TO?,
Kr/tmjf zvjf olxovpUyqe, *O
v
*HXios vpo€xpi9€v, aXxi/xo(
*A.p€uS fiaaiXelq *PapU
<
rrrtft
T
r\ f t 1 C m
if Tsaaa t/xoTcraxTcu i} yyj
fjLcra d'Axijf Hat Bdptrovp. B a-
a - i A t l f 'P a/«irri)t *HXuv x a jj
aucm
&
fiun.
ITIXOS AETTEPOS.
‘AxoXXiw Kfartpof, o ia-
t£ f &r’ aXijflf/a; iarroryf
S i a S y p a n f , T r jy A ty v ir r a y 8o£-
070$, KtKTijjUityof, dy\ca-
moiri<ia(*HX/ou mAiv, xai kt<-
ff»{ Trjv \onrvjv olMvpUnpi.
SOUTH SID E.
The interpretation begins upon the
southern side.
VERSE THE FIRST.
T h e Sun to King Rhamestes. I have
bestowed upon you to rule graciously
over all the world. He whom the
Sun loves is Horus the Brave, the
Lover of truth, the Son of Heron,
born ofGod, the restorer ofthe world:
He whom the Sun has chosen, is
the King Rhamestes, valiant in battle,
To whom all the earth is subject by
his might and bravery. Rhamestes
the King, the immortal offspring of
the Sun.
VERSE THE SECOND.
It is Horus the brave, who is in
truth appointed the Lord of the Dia
dem ; Who renders Egypt glorious,
and possesses it; Who sheds a splen
dour over Heliopolis, And regene
rates the rest of the world, And ho-
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
1 70 TH E OBELISK OF HELIOPOLIS.
xa)xoXuTW ijcov rol(i»'H \lov
no'Mt 6tol< dntpvpU > 0V(, * 0 y
*HXio{ (piXei.
T P IT O I 2T IX O I.
'Axo'XXay xpanfc, 'Hkini
u a"{ , TTa/M
fxyyyf, "O v “ HXkj?
xpoixpiviv xa) “
Apt]f akxi/Mf
itvpfrato. O
H tA dyaBA
Iv 'Kami tiaptevei xaipiji. 40 y
'A /»/*£» ayoma, itkripdiraf tov
y««ly toC tolvixof dyaBZv.
t Q of 9«oi X
phy^v Hupyj-
a-avro ’Ax^XXuy xpartpof viif
"H
fojvoj, Bao-(Xct{ olxoi/jH
enj;
‘Pa/xocrTJjj, * 0 f itpv\a£tv Ai-
yvKToy, T o t{* aXXoeflyfi; y»-
xrjaaf, *0v “HXio( tpikti. rQ
iroXl/y xptyoy Mvp'Jirayro
0«o), AftmoTtipofxou/*««jf‘P a -
p*.t<T7r$ alcnil
jSio<.
nours the Gods that dwell in Helio
polis : Him the Sun loves.
VERSE THE THIRD.
Horus the brave, the offspring of
the Sun, all-glorious; Whom the Sun
has chosen, and the valiant Ares
has endowed, His goodness remains
for ever, Whom Ammon loves, that
fills with good the temple of the
Phoenix. To him the Gods have
granted life: Horus the brave, the
son of Heron Rhamestes, the King of
the world, He has protected Egypt
and subdued her neighbours: Him
the Sun loves. The Gods have granted
him great length of life. He is Rha
mestes, the Lord of the world, the
immortal.
A N O TH ER SID E .
"AAA02 IT IX 0 2 A ETTEP02.
“HXio; 6tl( /x iy a f, tein ii-
Ti)( oipavov, Afbdprjpial c
r
o
i3iov
dnpiirxopov. ’AiroXXwy xpa-
rtp if, KrSpiOf 8ia8)j/*aT5{, dvcl-
xatTTOf, Tfly i> tp id yra ( d v t-
6ijxty i> tJjSc tj) /SaviXt/jt 8 «a-
wot)j( Alyifirrow Kal Ixlapri-
vey 'HX/ov •ni'ktv, 'Oputut; xa)
a M » *HXioy, ItO Kih^v oipa-
vov, 2ty<T«X<t;Trj!rfy tp y n
i y a &iy 'HX/ow «a7{, jSaai-
Xel; 8i0{.
VERSE THE SECOND.
I, the Sun, the great God, the sove
reign of heaven, Have bestowed upon
you life without satiety. Horus the
brave, Lord of the diadem, incom
parable, The sovereign of Egypt, that
has placed the statues of (the gods)
in this palace, And has beautified
Heliopolis, In like manner as he has
honoured the Sun himself, the sove
reign of heaven. The offspring of
the Sun, the King immortal, Has per
formed a goodly work.
* Gron.—t o DecX
A
ou 13*0u; Vulg.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF THE SYRIADIC COLUMNS. 171*
TPITO S 2T IX 02.
"H
A
m
? &
««?, 8ecrronj? o
£-
(o m C, 'PafjJa~rri fiairi'kiT 8t-
fciprinai To xparo; xai tijv
xara vdrritiv Jfow iar. 40 »
’AvoKKem, S«r-
voTift yj/cyuy, xoi “H ipaim f
o t 2 » 9e£v icairif, upoixpuicy
•nj( riy“Apea. BaarAeii? iray-
Xpfilii 'HXiov xa??, xai iiro
'HAwv tjuXodfinof.
A*HAIflTH2 nPflTOI ITlXOl.
'Odtp* 'Hxiou vi'MUf u.t~
ya? &ri?, btw pdnof, ’
AwoA-
Aa» xpattpo? 'Hp«M? wo?, ox
"HAio? rjyuyri&CY* ox cl Sfoi
JrjpHjo-ax, o iracnj? yjj? )3a-
o-jAftfcy, ox *HAjo? vpoixpiytv,
o aAxifco? 5(A tox “Apea jSa-
n W (. *Ox 1A/xuuv <
piA*~.
Kai o vatufxyyTj( avyxplyaf
aldyuy fiaunXia.
VERSE THE THIRD.
I, the Sun, the God and Lord of
Heaven, have bestowed strength and
power over all things, on King Rha-
mestes: he, whom Horus, the lover of
truth, the Lord of the seasons, and
Hephaestus, the father of the Gods,
have chosen on account of his valour,
is the all-gracious King, the offspring
and beloved of the Sun.
TOWARDS THE EAST, VERSE THE
FIRST.
The great God from Heliopolis,
celestial, Horus the brave, the son of
Heron, whom the Sun begot, and
whom the gods have honoured, he is
the ruler of all the earth ; he whom
the Sun hath chosen is the king,
valiant in battle. Him Ammon loves.
And him the all-glittering has chosen
his eternal king.
OF THE SIRIADIC COLUMNS:
FROM JOSEPHUS.
OTTOI *«£« ??ayaSic) <pvy?c( A ll these (the sons of Seth) being
yijvTt ty/y aiirpyatrtaaiaarci naturally of a good disposition, lived
xaT9
)K)]<rayei8a»/M
wjfl-aj'Tt?--f- happily in the land without aposta-
pifityii airoT;, ayjpi xal t«- tising, and free from any evils what-
XevTTjf, 8v<
rxcXm
i vp<xntc<r(v- soever: and they studiously turned
* Gron— }(xC
y>i»T»Vulg.—Marshall has iy/wii «t ».
f xaroixi)V«T>f lita i/tim a o n Vulg.
• Y
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
172' OF THE SIRIADIC COLUMNS.
r o f' eoeplay t e t1j» nepi rbe
cvpdvia k a ! tjjv rovrtay S ia -
xotrfiri<Tiy Ixeyarjaav. ’T r i p 8i
to S /xij iia ep vye iy* T o t ( a v -
S p u m v f r lt eipijpeeya, per) lie
nfn> fIf y y S a iv cXSf?* <p$laprj-
vau' irpoeipyxorof cupayirpelv
'A ia p u v r S t okay ecrftr& ai,
t8v txey x « t ’ tc~xyjv w p o (, roy
(repay te x a r a p la y x a i xXij-
S t j v f vS a ro f' o-rtjX aj 8u'o ttoi-
y<rdfMyoi, rrjy pity lx vklyH ov,
tijv Sf (repay e x k fc c c y , apupo-
re'paif ayeypaxpay r a evpy]-
peeya. «1 x a i avpipyj rrjy
i t \ i y&/»ijv a p a tu r^ v jy a e i n o
InopePplaf, rj Xi&iM} peel-
yacra napairj£i) peaSeTy reef
aySpam oif r a lyyeypapepeeya,
Ir/.aZo-a. x a i -nkiySlrriy S’ w r’
ai-raiv ayareU rjvae. M evei S’
®%P‘ to u Sevpo x a r a yrjy rr,v
SipiaSa.^
their attention to the knowledge of
the heavenly bodies and their con
figurations. And lest their science
should at any time be lost among
men, and what they had previously
acquired should perish (inasmuch
as Adam had acquainted them that
a universal aphanism, or destruc
tion of all things, would take place
alternately by the force offire and the
overwhelming powers of water), they
erected two columns, the one ofbrick
and the other of stone, and engraved
upon each of them their discoveries;
so that in case the brick pillar should
be dissolved by the waters, the stone
one might survive to teach men the
things engraved upon it, and at the
same time inform them that a brick
one had formerly been also erected
by them. It remains even to the pre
sent day in the land of Siriad.—Jos.
Ant. I. c. 2.
* $uy«iVAl. f Samb.—7 r\^ o g Al.
* IvpiaS* Vulg. Al.—2/jpi8a Malala, Glycas, Cedr. et Vet. Int.— Irfipik
Eust. Ant.—Voss, proposes Eirath.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
MANETHO.
OF THE WRITINGS OF MANETHO.
IIPOKEITAI li Xowrov no)
Ttp'i Tr[t; ray AVytmr/uv ivyct-
trttiaf /unfit tta\aji(7y in
t uy MaytSS toE XfStm/Tou,
o( fa) YlToXefxauov toE <Xa-
tfkipcv &pxitftlf ray iy A'i -
y im tf M u\fiuy ytprnutti<Ttx
fa t ay fa -rQ 73 «»-
fUyuy TTi/Kuy Upf tpr/a-i tia-
'Kenrtpruii UpoypcupMG~sypdu-
fuuri ne%apamripuTfAeyw vxl
Out) toE vpwrov *Ep/jloZ, na)
Ip/A.rptv6(i<ruy pttTit to* yjxta-
xXuo-ptiy fa -rijf UpcL$ itaXfa-
tov t'n T3* ‘EAArpilta tpayijy
ypdftjxxuuv ItpoyXupnuTf, xal
dxoT tiarm fa jS/jSXoic Exo
toE ’AyaBotcUpunf vlov toE
Zantpm ‘Ef/uiv, xarpof 8e toE
TAt tv toE; <&/T0if tSv ttpuv
Alrytrrov, ttpwrt<f>6rti<Tt
a iry ficuriAti 8tu-
rip/p YlTtKt/uzicp fa t j jS/jSXy
It remains, therefore, to make certain
extracts concerning the dynasties of
the Egyptians, from the writings of
Manetho the Sebennyte, the high-
priest of the idolatrous temples of
Egypt in the time of Ptolemaeus Phi-
ladelphus. These, according to his
own account, he copied from the in
scriptions which were engraved in the
sacred dialect and hierographic cha
racters, upon the columns set up in
the Seriadic land, by Thoth, the first
Hermes; and, after the deluge, trans
lated from the sacred dialect into the
Greek tongue, in hieroglyphic cha
racters; and committed to writing in
books, and deposited by Agatho-
daemon, the son of the second Her
mes, the father of Tat, in the pene
tralia of the temples of Egypt. He
has addressed and explained them to
Philadelphus, the second king that
bore the name of Ptolemaeus, in the
.yGoogle
169* OF TH E WRITINGS OF M ANETHO.
rij( 2cS6to; ypatfmy lit) Xt-
£fu; ouru;.
E n ilT O A H M A N E 60 TOT 2E-
BENNTTOT I1 P 0 2 riTOAE-
MAION TON *IA A A EA *oN .
B ao-jX er p te y a X f IlToAe-
ptaltp t iX a ifX ip f a’fSatrrijS
M ave& S apxLepelf x a l yp a ix-
p ta r e l; tS v x a r ’ A ty v itrc v Je-
pSy iS v 'r u y , y lv e i 'ZtfStyvuTti;
xnt&pypy 'H X w v s o XIt i i ;, t Ip
S tm roT j fiov IT toX e p ta lf % ai-
ptIF.
l i t X o y ltfa S c u , p u -
y i r r e jSatriXtE, vep) n a v rv y
2» la y jSoi/Xj y u a i l(era<Tou
rp /xy p ta ru v ' tvdJijTOwr/ trot
•sep) r a y pttXXoyTuy t p nu>
<
r\1
*9
)
ylyyttr^Sat xa~«; IxeX eiio-i;
p u t napoubarrjtrctal trot a cpta-
Sroy Ifp i (3t(3\la y p a tp fy ra VTtb
t o v vpoitaTopo; T ptcriA tyltT rm
*Eppuv. epputrl put i t r n o r i
pmv jSa<nX<2,
book which he has entitled Sothis.
They are as follows:
THE EPISTLE OF MANETHO, THE
SEBENNYTE, TO PTOLEM.EUS PHI
LADELPHIA.
To the great and augustking Ptole-
mseus Philadelphus: Manetho, the
high priest and scribe of the sacred
adyta in Egypt, being by birth a Se-
bennyte and a citizen of Heliopolis,
to his sovereign Ptolemaeus, humbly
greeting:
It is right for us, most mighty
king, to pay due attention to all things
which it is your pleasure we should
take into consideration. In answer
therefore to your inquiries concerning
the things which shall come to pass in
the world, I shall, according to your
commands, lay before you what I
have gathered from the sacred books
written by Hermes Trismegistus, our
forefather. Farewell, my prince and
sovereign. — Syncel. Chron. 40.—
Euseb. Chron. 6.
Digitized by Google
MANETHO.
OF THE SHEPHERD KINGS.
ErENETO f}aa-iM vp ypcTv,
T t/c o o f* ovou.cC) fir! to ijto v o ix
clo’ n u ( o S c o ( a r r c m ic w tv ,
x a ) vapaSo£a:f l x T uv vpof
avaroM jV jctpuv, avSponcoi to
ycvof aanipcoi, x a T o A a p r y a a v -
r »5l x ) tijv x®P%v ifT p a T tv -
<ra.v,\ x a ) p fS i'u f a ,a a j ^ r l
Tavr»;v x e sra x p a ro ; eTXov. K a i
Tots rpyt/JiovevaavTtK Iv a i r y
Xcipoxraucvoi, to Xonov T a f to
roX cif u /c S f Ivcitpyaav, x a ) r a
icpa r a v 5cw v xaTccrxatf/av.
* a < r( 8e t o i { int^uploip tx f y o -
TccTa vo ’( lyjpytravTO, Tovp
u lv a<paC,ovtc(, t S v Sc x a ) t »
r c x v a x a ) y w a T x a f c!( Sov-
Xctocv ayovrcq. H cp a f Sc x a )
fia n X c a cva c { a tr u v Ix o ty -
<rav, tp ovoua yv 2 sfAaTi$. J
x a i ovtq$ Iv Tvj McpupiSi x a r c -
W e had formerly a king whose name
was Timaus. In his time it came to
pass, I know not how, that God
was displeased with us: and there
came up from the East in a strange
manner men of an ignoble race, who
had the confidence to invade our
country, and easily subdued it by
their power without a battle. And
when they had our rulers in their
hands, they burnt our cities, and
demolished the temples of the gods,
and inflicted every kind of barbarity
upon the inhabitants, slaying some,
and reducing the wives and children
of others to a state of slavery. At
length they made one of themselves
king, whose name was Salads : he
lived at Memphis, and rendered both
the upper and lower regions of Egypt
tributary, and stationed garrisons in
* T/ptaioc Al.
I SiSK
t h
itio T p im ta v Vulg.
Vet. Int.
z
Digitized by Google
170 M ANETHO.
ylytro, ti)K tc avu xal Kara
X®Pa*8arpuXoyuy, xal tppov-
pdy iv t o Inirr^im droif
xaTaXcixov rom if' piiXurra.
8c xal r a npop avaroArv ^cr-
tpaXlaaro fieprj, npoopuptcvof
'Atravpim, Tore* fieifyv I<r-
yylyroy, tzoiAtvrtv cxiSc/Aiay
aur^ff jSaaiXeia? c^o'Sou.'j'
efjuv 8e ev vou£ rS 2aiT7j+
xoXiv iiriKaipordrrjv, xcijaenjr
ftex irpof ayat o Xijv t o u Bou-
jHaa-rlrov xoraixov, xaXoo/xenjr
8’ axo Tiro; ip xzla f &eoXoy/a;
Avapiv, § ratfryv c x t uer tc,
xal to~; Tci'^caiv oxt/p&JTaTtjv
lm!titrev lrOMi<ra( avrrj xal
xX5|&o; iirXiruy cl; clxoor xal
TCinrafa; jj.vpiaBa; aytipuv
•itpof <pv\axrjy, ivdccde Kara
Aepeiay rjpxero, ra pey aizz-
ftcrfSv xal /anzSotpoptay xa-
p(X°pcyo;, Ta 8c xal i£oxXi-
Tiai; [| npof tpoftov rZv e^oi&ev
^x ijk o XS; yvptv&^oy.
places which were best adapted for
that purpose. But he directed his
attention principally to the security
of the eastern frontier; for he re
garded with suspicion the increasing
power of the Assyrians, who he
foresaw would one day undertake an
invasion of the kingdom. And ob
serving in the Saite nome, upon the
east of the Bubastite channel, a city
which from some ancient theological
reference was called Avaris; and
finding it admirably adapted to his
purpose, he rebuilt it, and strongly
fortified it with walls, and garrisoned
it with a force of two hundred and
fifty thousand men completely armed.
To this city Salatis repaired in sum
mer time, to collect his tribute, and
pay his troops, and to exercise his
soldiers in order to strike terror into
foreigners.
“Apfa; 8’ cwcaxai8<xa ctij And Salatis died after a reign of
riv y
S
/o
v freX
evTtjo-ar. Mcra nineteen years: after him reigned
rovroy 8c crcpo; ifiao-ikevaty another king, who was called Beon,
t€tr<
rapa xal rerrapdxovra forty-four years: and he was suc-
c t ij, xoXmlueyo; B
ijaSy.^
f jaeS’
’ ceeded by Apachnas who reigned
o
v aX
X
o; ’Axayydf, ef xal thirty-six years and seven months :
rpidbKovractij xal urtya$Inra. after him reigned Apophis sixty-one
• Hud. Per.—iron Vulg.
* Sync.
|| t o u j dxXiVaf Vet. Int.
t Hud. Per. Lowth. pro fipoJor.
§ “A0apiy AI.
If Ba/aiv Sync.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
M ANETHO. 171
(TfiTa 8t xal rA*tapis » KOi
IfqxoxTa, xal 'Iaxi'af * xfxmj-
xoxTa xal pt^jxa exa. 1*2 x a tri
I trial “Airaif'(' tn ta xal Tto--
r a p i x u n a xal ptSjxsKSxo. Kal
.Zt.i /«> if lx a8ro7; lytxij-
rv7*T(X> T
fH
-C
O
l afXflrTff, TTOAf-
f/MtTtf H i xal *o&oExt«{
piaAAax rijt AlyviTou ifapai
t»jx ^ a x . ‘ExaAtiro 81 to
ovpc*ax a&rSv i&»o< T xiru^J
tout. 8*' eoTi f}aai\xTs xtijie-
«{. to yap *Tx § xaS1 JtpAx
ykSaa-aa fiaoi'fja. oni/xcuvei,
to 81 Zol{ || orotpM
jx 1cm xal
*oipttxe; xcztcz rijy xoivijx Sia-
Xoctox, xal o8tu o irrA ipnw
yintrat 'Txaslj" t»x«{ 8c Ae-
yovaiy a iTots “ApajSaf <7xai.
ToEtou« 81 Toli{ TpcxaTojvopiaa-
l*tvtv{ fiaaikias t h is t£x *o»-
pwxax xaXnpUvuv, xal t ov( If
airrSr ytytpityovSr y.pa-njcrai
t?{ Alyvnov (^njor») cnj xpc{
to7$ xertaxoalois ev8fxa.
M rra Tauxa 81, t£x lx t>){
BfySafSo; xal T>j$ aXXi)f Ac-
yvKTW j3a?i}Jx'r ycytrSat
(rprprir) 1*1 toi>{ *ojpic»a?
Ixaxaa-raa-ix, xal *o'A*pwx au-
to7{H irvftayrjvai pcyar xal
ToXv^povtox. 1*1 81 fiatrtktus.
years, and Ianias fifty years and one
month. After all these reigned Assis
forty-nine years and two months.
These six were the first rulers
amongst them, and during the whole
period of their dynasty, they made
war upon the Egyptians with the
hope of exterminating the whole race.
All this nation was styled Hycsos,
that is the Shepherd Kings ; for the
first syllable, Hyc, in the sacred dia
lect, denotes a king, and Sos signifies
a shepherd, but this only according
to the vulgar tongue ; and of these
is compounded the term Hycsos:
some say they were Arabians. This
people who were thus denominated
Shepherd Kings, and their descend
ants retained possession of Egypt
during the period of five hundred and
eleven years.
After these things he relates that
the kings of Thebais and of the other
provinces of Egypt, made an insur
rection against the Shepherds, and
that a long and mighty war was car
ried on between them, till the Shep
herds were overcome by a king whose
• ’loantois Big. H&fh.
t Vet. Int—2&a>s or*A*i$ Sync.— A^Xijs or "Ay^Xijf Afr. Eus.
X 'TxoumU Eus. § oCaa-dj; Eus.
|| O vaawi Eus. Eus. omits.
Digitized by Google
172 M ANETHO.
£ ovofxa elvai *A
\i<T(ppayixov-
Sarif, * rjTrufxtvovf ((fac'i)
•noi[Ae*aq avrcv, ex
jtxcv Tijf aWrjs Alyvnrrov *a-
<
rrjq ixnco-cTv, x araxXaoSijvat
8* eSf TO
Troy, apovpuv €%gvta
[AVptuV T7JV KCplfAtTpOV. A*dpIV
ovo/xa rS roirp. Tovt ov (<pij-
aiv o Mayc^wy) anavra, tc/-
%
€* re fjiiy&Xy xai foxppv **“
pifiaXeTv t o C$ votptevaf,
njv re ycnjaiv anaarav €%
&
><ny
iv oxyp?9 + T^y Xe/av T^y
iavruv.
Toy 8c *AAi<T(f>payfMv5a)-
vevf vibv Gov/xpuM-iv §
prjtrat pcev aCrolf tid •noXiop-
x/a$ 1
1£Xf7y x ara xparcf, oxt«
xai Teao-apctKQYTa [wplcun
TTpocebpeuGairta. to7$ Te/%ecnv*
8t tS}$ iroXiO^x/a^ air-
eyy&j, TroiycrcMrSai (rv[A(3a.<T€i$,
7va rrjv Aiyvnrov ixAnrovTfq
Qitoi ** ftoiiXovrai vdvref d -
p\aj3e~$ aircXStoo-*. rot/f 8^
ctt; ra7$ o[Ao\oytaiq vavoiK€<rip
[Ana ruv x tvj<reuv os5x i\d r -
Ttv{ [Avpiaftuv ovras etaon xal
t ttradfuv gcttg rrj( Alyvim v
rrjy cpypoii elf Ivflay oiotmfi-
name was Alisphragmuthosis, and
they were by him driven out of the
other parts of Egypt, and hemmed
up in a place containing about ten
thousand acres, which was called
Avaris. All this tract (says Manetho)
the Shepherds surrounded with a
vast and strong wall, that they might
retain all their property and their
prey within a hold of strength.
And Thummosis, the son of Alis
phragmuthosis, endeavoured to force
them by a siege, and beleaguered the
place with a body of four hundred
and eighty thousand men; but at
the moment when he despaired of
reducing them by siege, they agreed
to a capitulation, that they would
leave Egypt, and should be permit
ted to go out without molestation
wheresoever they pleased. And, ac
cording to this stipulation, they de
parted from Egypt with all their
families and effects, in number not
less than two hundred and forty
thousand, and bent their way through
• M(a<pgtxy/xovSojai; Eus.— WaQpayjx&ojjie Sync,
f <£ Eus. t t o t -
§ GpoCSwat* Eus.— Toi&fxojffH Sec. Dyn.»—T&/iur<s Theop. Ant.
|1 jroAjofx/ay Eus. tj)> .x o \io g x ( a t Euf.
• • Big. Eus.— Sirtj AI.
Digitized by ^ o o Q l e
MANETHO. 173
a x i * {pe8o'Jixevovf be Trjy ’Acr-
o-tipUu) iu y a a -T fla v , t o t * y a p
iM u /o tf ti j( ‘A r l a ( tip tiT eiy,
b t j yvv ’looSaijt f xaXou-
pUrp iroAiy <
s
i’xo8o/X7)<raf«vou{
T « rat/T ai{ pavpuSuriv dvSspdvoiv
ipM a-ovaav, 'lepoviX o/aa T a v -
Tt)> oyopuitrai.
(’Ex dXXp 8« tiw ^i/SXf
tu y A iy v m a x S v M ay tS slv )
ToSto (ipYiait) e&yc{ to l( «a-
Xovpoevovf *o»f<.<ya<, alyyaoXti-
nvf b t aif UpaTf ccvtuy jS//3-
Xoij yeypdepScu-
M era t8 i£e'k8fiv i t A I-
y v itr m t o y Xcwy r£ y voipetYoiY
elf '\epoao\v\).a, I ix.f3 a \u y
a ir o if i t Aiywrrou fia rtX e b f
T iSpuio-if, J iflcurtXeutj-ey pitT&
r a v r a eri) «»xo<n ireyre x a i
juijy<z{ Tetra-apaf, x a l ireA ev-
TyaeVj x a l ta p e X a ^ t Tijy a p -
%rj> oh/toC u lif Xefiptov eri) 8e-
x a r p la . pu6' ov § ’A/aevoxpif
eixoci || rial p iyva f h e r d . t o v
8
« dbfXtpy) ‘A fa e a a r jf^ « x o -
(jify xa> [ayjvaf l> via. rrj<
i ) M ycppyf * * 8u8exa xaJ /x!j-
v a ; iv yea . t o v be Mrjeppa/aov-
eixotri T.evTe x a !
the desert towards Syria. But as
they stood in fear of the Assyrians,
who had then dominion over Asia,
they built a city in that country which
is now called Judaea, of sufficient size
to contain this multitude of men, and
named it Jerusalem.
(In another book of the Egyptian
histories Manetho says) That this
people, who are here called Shep
herds, in their sacred books were
also styled Captives.
After the departure of this nation
of Shepherds to Jerusalem, Tethmo-
sis, the king of Egypt who drove
them out, reigned twenty-five years
and four months, and then died:
after him his son Chebron took the
government into his hands for thir
teen years ; after him reigned Ame-
nophis for twenty years and seven
months: then his sister Amesses
twenty-one years and nine months :
she was succeeded by Mephres, who
reigned twelveyears andnine months:
after him Mephramuthosis twenty-
five years and ten months: then
Thmosis reigned nine years and
• JioSoitopijaau Eus. f ’louJa/iiy Vulg.
1 9l/iu>ns V at. In t.— A/iaeif Philos.— 'A
yuiSs Afr.—“A /io in t Eus. and
Sync.
§ ToiJt ou 81 V et. In t. || elxooib Afr. Eus.
% ’A/iivirlf El.— ’Ayuiyvh Sync.— 'A p b c r , Theop.
• * Miifp ‘t El.— fl f S ync. f t y iir ffa y /itiS w r is Sync.
Digitized by
1 74 M A N ETH O .
M m . too it 0/xStrn *
in to xai aSjva^ oxtu. too Sc
’AfUtutpif "I" TfiaxoxTa xai
/*5jva{ Sex*. toS Sc T
O^0{ Tpid-
xw ra If xai /«jxa{ acxrc.
ToS Sc Svydryp ‘Axryxpbf +
SuSexa xai pvrjva cva. Tij{ Sc
P < £ 0 u ti; § a&e'/jpof i n t a . t o v
6c ‘A n t y x ^ m 5u6cxa xai /xij-
xo$ tcxtc. tov Sc ’Axtyfflprif
tT tp o f SuSexa xai /i!jxa; Tpt~f.
t o v Sc “A p fu tif T ta a a p a xai
/arjva cxa. tov S i Pa/ccaaij? ex
xai /xijxa; T tw a p o f- t o v Sc
'Appvlaatji Mia/x/uv cfifxoxra
If xai /ctjxaj Sw. tov Sc’A/xc-
yutpif Sexa xa! iwca xa) /aij-
vaf ef. tov Sc 2c'duai(, xai
Pa^ccaoTjj, IxTrixijy xai xavri-
xijx cj^uv Sv'vafuv.
05t«{ tSx /xc'x dit>jpoy“Ap-
ftaiv ivlTporo* Tyj( Alyvrrov
xaTcanjffcx, xai «aaax /xcx
avr$> T)jx aXXijx jSaajXjxijx
vtpiiShjxty ifotw/ax, yao'xox Sc
ivcTciXaro SiaSij^a /xxj <pop(iy,
porfic TTjy jSaajXiSa por/ripa tc
tux Ttxxux dSixcEx, dvixt<r6ai
Sc xai tux aAXux /3oo-jAjxux
craXXax/Sux. avToc Sc 6x1
Kvxfox xai oixixi)x xai xdXix
’A<r<rvplovf tc xai Mi?8ov$ 5
-fa-
eight months ; after whom Ameno-
phis thirty years and ten months: then
Orus thirty six years and five months:
then his daughter Acenchres twelve
years and one month : afterwards her
brother Rathotis nine: then Acen-
clieres twelve years and five months;
another Acencheres twelve years and
three months : after him Armais four
years and one month: after him
reigned Ramesses one year and four
months: then Armesses the son of
Miammous sixty-six years and two
months: after him Amenophis nine
teen years and six months: and he
was succeeded by Sethosis and|| Ra
messes, he maintained an array of
cavalry and a naval force.
This king (Sethosis) appointed his
brother Armais his viceroy over
Egypt: he also invested him with all
the other authority of a king, with
only these restrictions; that he should
not wear the diadem, nor interfere
with the queen, the mother of his
children, nor abuse the royal concu
bines. Sethosis then made an ex
pedition against Cyprus and Phoeni
cia, and waged war with the Assy
rians and Medes; and he subdued
• T oiS/iw ns Theop.—Sync. t ’A/x«cCi$3iifAl.
I ’AX et ’AX«»X<fc>ls Sync.—’Ayxaxifh El-—'AX, YXIP'U Big.
§ PuSus AL || Qy. i x«), who is called.
Digitized by Google
M ANETHO. 175
r (v a -a f, a n a n a s , t o v < p e t them al], some by force of arms, and
to p a n , rob( Sed p a xm 'i,< p c^tp others without a battle, by the mere
St t?{ noXKris iv y a p e u s , in o - terror of his power. And being
xapuvt tAajSt. xai piya elated with his success, he advanced
<^o»i](T
*(i n i r a ts Iv x p a y la if, still more confidently, and overthrew
£t< xai Supa-aM uTcpoy ir o - the cities, and subdued the countries
petitt o * -ton r p i; a ya ro X a s of the East.
m X e is r e r a t x a p a s x a r a -
a~epf<j>opttio(.
Xpoym r e ixayov ytyoyoros, But Armais, who was left in Egypt,
" A p p a i( o x a r a A tu fie is iv Al- tookadvantage ofthe opportunity,and
y v m p , n d r r a ro X p r a X tv ,'\ fearlessly perpetrated all those acts
olf dhcXtpos rapyvei prj o
rtufty, which his brother had enjoined him
aSeSSf ir p a r r e y . x a i y a p r ip not to commit: he violated the queen,
jStunXiSa jSia/»< etr^ev, x a i and continued an unrestrained inter-
rai$ aXKatsraXKaxhriy atpet- course with the royal concubines ;and
8£< SitreXfi ptvc;. rciSo'- at the persuasion of his friends he
peyos St ino ray tplheiy SittSij- assumed the diadem, and openly op-
p a itjxpet, xai avrijpc r S posed his brother.
afifXtptp.
'O St r e r a y p lv o t in i r a y But the ruler over the priests of
U puv J A ly v r r o v , y p d tp a s Egypt by letters sent an account to
/9i/S\loy (n e p \p t r y X tS u crci, Sethosis, and informed him of what
hyj\ay a v r f r d v r a , x a i Sri had happened, and how his brother
a n rip ey a d b fh p lt; a ir o v “ap- had set himself up in opposition to
p a if. n a p a x f i p a olv C nearpt- his power. Upon this Sethosis im-
4 * v ei( nTjXovtrioy, x a i ix p d - mediately returned to Pelusium, and
•njj-ev rrrp M a t; fiatriK etas ij recovered his kingdom. The country
St X& pa ixXrpty] a m ro v a ir o v of Egypt took its name from Setho-
iy o p a ro f K ly vn re p . Xeyet y a p sis, who was called also AEgyptUS, as
o t i o pJev Z e & a x n t § ix a X e iro was his brother Armais known by
Aiytnrros, "A p p a ls St o aSeX - the name of Danaus.—Joseph, eontr.
<
(
tof a ir o v A a y a o f. App. lib. I. c. 14, 15.
* iirorofiSrro Big. Hafh. f rip n a X ty Hafn.
J Hud. from Vet. Int.— Itpirn Vulg. § 2d9ws Big.
Digitized by
176 M A N B TH 0.
OF THE ISRAELITES.
Toih-oy (Aplyaxpty) It iSv- This king (Amenophis) was de-
SitSv ytvtaSat ZezTyjy, sirous of beholding the gods, as Orus,
unrepT
(lpofm«
T
< rS>rpi a£- one of his predecessors in the king-
tov {3ef3iuri\evM
Tu»‘ dveney dom, had seen them. And he com-
KtivSo Try In&vpiay guuvvuv municated his desire to a priest of the
pet/ avrf'Apev&pei, rarplf he same name with himself, Amenophis,
Hdieic(f owi, Sutaf 8e So- the son of Papis, who seemed to
Mvm pe-retrxfiY.eyai <
p
rl<
7
eu
(, partake of the divine nature, both in
xaToi T€ ntplav xai npoyyuaiy his wisdom and knowledge of futu-
t£» iaopevuv. eiiteTt eZv airrS rity : and Amenophis returned him
tovtov tov opunpuy, on Svytj- answer, that it was in his power to
<
rerouSeav( ISeT
y, el xaSapdy behold the gods, if he would cleanse
dm re Aenpuy xai rSy aXAuy the whole country of the lepers and
piapuv dy$pum>y rIjv yylpay other unclean persons that abounded
aracray mirjaeiey. in it.
'Ho-StAtco Sr to» fSanAea, Well pleased with this information,
o rd yra f r o v f r d a u p a r a i "ke'Ku- the king gathered together out of
|Sijf«you? lx. r ift AiytSirrov a m - Egypt all that laboured under any
a y a y u v " yeveaSiai he tov defect in body, to the amount of
5ov; pvpiaH a( i x r u ‘ x a ) roil- eighty thousand, and sent them to the
ro v( e lf r d f Ai&oroou'a; r d f ly quarries, which are situated on the
r f npof dyaroAr/y pepei tov east side of the Nile, that they might
Ne&ov lp@ a'kf~y n ir o y , n u t work in them and be separated from
Ipyd^otyro xou r u y aXXoiy AI- the rest of the Egyptians. And (he
y v n l u y ol ty x e x u p ir p e y e i. says) there were among them some
elyai he nyaf ly a ir o if xai learned priests who were affected
r u y Avyluy iepiuy (<faal,) with leprosy. And Amenophis the
A
btpep. avyxjrfftplyovf. Toy 8e wise man and prophet, fearful lest
'A peyutpiy Ixeiyoy, Toy aotpcy the vengeance of the gods should fall
xai p a y rtx o y duhpa, viroSeftr- both on himself and on the king, if
• Hud. from Vet. Int. - - ‘Op Vulg. f Hud.—naixjot Al.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
M A N E TH 0. 177
S a t otpo( a ir iy r e xai Toy /5a-
iriAfa j^Xoy r a y S e a y, fl fiiour-
S e y r e f it/ySqtrovrai. x a i orpor-
S e p eyo y* tn te iy , o n <rup.jj.a-
Xrjaova! r iy (( roT( piapoT(, xai
•nj{ AiyiSirrili x p a ry ro v e iy I t
t r y ie x a r p ia , p y ToX/djaai
jitey ctvTcy eiveiy r a v r a r 2
fS a riX ei, ypoufnjy 8e xaTaXi-
v i t r a orep'i it& yruy ia v r o t ave-
Xeiv. iy aOvy.li/. §f etvai Toy
fla < n \e a . »
(Kjtxfira xani Xejiv cStsi
yeypaepey'), TaJv 8e raif Xaro-
p!a<<; tl'? %
/joV
o? Ixayo; Sioj\Sey
ra X a ix a p o v yra y , a fc iu S t); o
j9a<riXti/{, Iva t o o ; x a r a h v r iy
dirro7{ xai exem pt axopeplaip
TTjv ro re r a y notpetuy ip tip a -
S eT ra y m k i t , "J" A vapiy a v te -
X u p y n y . e m le f; xo M ( x a r d
rijv S io X o y la t a v u S e t T v ijm -
yio(.
Ol Se elf Tavrtjy t’
lTeX-
S i t Tff, xai roy ro vey rovroy
eif a r u a r a n y ^ e%oyref, ijye-
yJota a l r a t ’
K e y ip e tit n y a r a y
'H X iottoX ita y \epeav 'O a a p e i-
<poy§ ia r t\e r,y r o , xai roirep
•xeiOapxqo-oyref iy r a n y apxo-
uorr.a'av' o 8e otparoy p e l a i -
roTf youoy e S e r o , p y r e vpoir-
xvyeiy Seoiif, prtr e r a y p d \i< r-
it should appear th at violence had
been offered them , added this also in
a prophetic s p irit;— th at certain peo
ple w ould come to th e assistance o f
these unclean persons, and w ould
subdue E g y p t, and hold it in posses
sion for thirteen years. T h ese tidings
how ever he d a re d n o t to com m uni
cate to the king, b u t left in w riting
an account o f w hat should come to
pass, an d destroyed him self, a t which
the k ing was fearfully distressed.
(A fter w hich he w rites thus, w ord
for w o rd :) W hen those th at w ere
sent to w ork in the quarries h ad con
tinued for som e tim e in th at m iser
able state, the king was petitioned to
set ap art for th eir habitation and p ro
tection the city A varis, w hich had
been left vacant by the S h e p h e rd s;
and he g ran ted them th eir desire :
now this city, according to the theo
logy above, is a T yphonian city.
B u t w hen they h ad taken posses
sion o f the city, and found it well
adapted for a revolt, they appointed
for them selves a ru ler from am ong
the priests o f H eliopolis, one whose
nam e was O sarsiph, and they bound
them selves by oath th at they w ould
be obedient. O sarsiph then, in the
first place enacted this law , th at they
should neither w orship the gods, nor
* Hud.—Tcp&i/xvw Vulg. f Hud. from MSS. Vet. Int.—Al. omit.
J A
jroxfltTxaraaiv Hafn. § Hud. from Vet. Int.—’Off’
ipvfov Vulg.
A A
Digitized by Google
178 M A N E T II0.
ra inAfyv'rrp abstain from any of those sacred ani-
U ptH r^vuv & v tx « r 9 a i /Mifiiyot, mals which the Egyptians hold in
n&vra n Stffiv xai cwaXtSjy' veneration, but sacrifice andslaythem
mn&TSTtzBai &
« /xijSeyl o
rX
ijy all; and that they should connect
r a y 0 -vyu/Mtry.eyuy. T c ia v r a S t themselves with none but such as
xouofltTijo-at, xal vXela-ra were of that confederacy. When he
£XX«, fjM X itrra roTf A ly u v - had made such laws as these, and
f/oif iBurjut7j* iyaviuivfMya, many others of a tendency directly
IxtX evtrty *oX
.t^t<p5t ri in opposition to the customs of the
m'Xfif e»»<rw
w
2Jeivre/jp),xal Egyptians, he gave orders that they
irpof voXtpuy eroIpuvf ylyter- should employ the multitude of hands
Sjai to y 'A fj.ty tx p iy f t » inrebuilding the walls about the city,
jB
oarX
e'a. airros St irpoo-X
ajSo- and hold themselves in readiness for
p
u
y<
>
( /xeB' imrcov xai t S» war with Amenophis the king. He
aX
X
av U ptay x a i ov/i/*e/*ia<r- then took into his counsels some
pcyoy, evepupe vpttrfiut vph{* others of the priests and unclean
roiif into TtBpuiacus artXa- persons: and sent ambassadors to
&tyro<§ vol/«><*«, e lf voXly the city called Jerusalem, to those
T
ijy x«X
ou/«v5jy 'ItpocoXv/JM Shepherds who had been expelled by
xa< ta v.a.B
' eaurov x a i r n if Tethmosis : and he informed them
aX
X
ov; r o if mya.TifuurBenaf of the position of their affairs, and
S
rikatraf, ijf/oo a-vyeviavpa- requested them to come up unani-
rti/eiv ipLoBopLaZoy in' Aiym- mously to his assistance in this war
T
oy. ’Eva£eiy\\/AeyolyavTovf against Egypt. He also promised in
in riy y tfa a T o , vpuToy piey e lf the first place to reinstate them in
A vapiy ryjy r^oyovixijy a v r S v their ancient city andcountry Avaris,
v a rp lB a , x a i r a iv i-n 'iie ia and provide a plentiful maintenance
roif o^X
oif o
r
apefcuv aupBoywf, for their host, and fight for them as
vvepiAaxfi<reiT^aL 8e oto Seoi, occasion might require ; and assured
xai pi/Sluf imxeipuy avroif them that he would easily reduce the
rljy%
u
p
o
L
Yvotfmv. ofW(mtp- country under their dominion. The
X
<
*pe‘( yeyineyoi v&trcef vpo- Shepherds received this message with
* Hud. from MSS.—i^Joymois Vulg.
f Hud. from Vet. Int.—M/rtotp/v Vulg. J Hud. MSS.—At. omit it.
} Hud. MSS.— i n A iir r a s Al. || Lowth propose* 4»i£|ii».
Digitized by G o o g l e
M ANETHO. 179
S tlp u f { if u M tri p u p ta ia f itv -
tp a r avre£ d p p jia a y, x a ) p e n ’
ai T fX i rpwy e if A vapiy.
’A p tira tp if S’ o n a y A ly ir r -
r lo t fic u r iX ilf, iif M % { t o l i t
x a n it t )p ix th tm ftfxZoy, otJ
p e r p in t avreyddri, rrjf n a p '
’Aptn& pecnf roe I ld n io f prtftr-
h t i f n p d tffK d a tu f. x a ) n p ir e -
poy a m m y a y u v n X ifio f A ly v x -
n iv r , x a ) )9« iX evrd p ero f p e n d
n a y i y ro vro if tiy tp ir a r , n d
r e U pd %2a n d n p Z n a pi& Kir-
t a t y r u f iepoTf n tp u p e y a S f
y ia v n lx p e m tp y l/a n o , x a )
ro7f x a n d pepof U ptvaiy n a -
prpyytiXey,* o f lu n fx tA t& n a n a
r a y S e a y a v y x p v ^ a i r a £oava.
n'oy t i l lcy 'SaBxv 'f TD
v x a i
P apiaanpy i n i Pdpifieap T°v
na n p o f u vo u a a p ev w n t y r a i n f
a n a , ifid e n o n p if nor tauirdu
tpfrxy. a irrof te i t a j i i f nd lf
a X X u f A ly v x n io tf, o ln y e lf
n p laxorna p v p lc A a f iy tp a y
p a jy p u n d n a y , xa'i note n o X t-
p ie if itn a vrrp ja u iiy oil a v y tfia -
Xty' a X X d p e fA e iy S to p a y jiiy
y o p la a f, a a X itip o p rja a f r/xey
t l f Me p ^ ty . dyocXafitev r e roy-
r t “A m ir, x a ) n il a X X a n it
ix e ta e p e n a n ep u p iey n a Upd
5»«, tiB h f e)f A lB u n ia r aim
the greatest joy, and quickly mus
tered to the number of two hundred
thousand men, and came up to Avaris.
Now Amenophis the kingofEgypt,
when he was informed of their inva
sion, was in great consternation, re
membering the prophecy of Ameno
phis, the son of Papis. And he as
sembled the armies of the Egyptians,
and having consulted with the leaders,
he commanded the sacred animals to
be brought to him, especially those
which were held in more particular
veneration in the temples, and he
forthwith charged the priests to con
ceal the images of their gods with
the utmost care. Moreover he placed
his son Sethos, who was also called
Ramesses from his father Rampses,
being then but five years old, under
the protection of a faithful adherent;
and marched with the rest of the
Egyptians being three hundred thou
sand warriors, against the enemy, who
advanced to meet him : but he did
not attack them, thinking it would be
to wage war against the gods, but
returned, and came again to Mem
phis, where he took Apis and the
other sacred animals he had sent for,
and retreated immediately into Ethio
pia together with all his army, and
all the multitude of the Egyptians ;
• KO
ipfiyythXtt Big. f Big.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
180 M ANETHO.
anan i r
$
> <
rti\tj> xal *Xij0« for the king of Ethiopia was under
run Alyt-mlun anjxflij. xaP
‘Tl obligations to him. He was there-
yap \n u irS imoxelpit( i r£v fore kindly received by the king,
Aldimen flamU£<; <
&
<
>vna- who took care of all the multitude
telapunop, Ha) t o I { ox>
*v< that was with him, while the country
manai imXapuv o
T
? eayf* v supplied what was necessary for their
%&pa t5» aplf &*%puirtrrii> subsistence. He also allotted to him
aptxfiriyIntr-rpleluv, xal mKcif* cities and villages during his exile,
xa) xupux{ npii ttj» run *€- which was to continue from its be-
vpupunun TpurttafikHa fr£» ginning during the predestined thir
d s -nj; apxfu a it o o f cxirra- teen years. Moreover he pitched a
mv avrapvjtn, o£x \rtin ye camp for an Ethiopian army upon
xal orparimtion AWtmixoy the borders of Egypt, as a protection
ttpi( ipvXaHrjy Intrale reif to king Amenophis.
tap' ‘Aptenutpeuf rev @am\iu(
In) t un iplunT sj{ Alyvnnov.
Kal ra jMt xara T
rjy At- In the mean time, while such was
Sioiriay T iia S r a . o! S oX v- the state of things in.Ethiopia, the
p u t a t xartX&oWf* avv roTf people of Jerusalem, who had come
puapotf r u n K tyvtrtC m olru< down with the unclean of the Egyp-
dnomu$X«««dvSpunoif itpoa- tians, treated the inhabitants with
ijnfofljjaav, u<rte tt)» t£v such barbarity, that those who wit-
apoetprripLtyuyKpanjmv x(‘P
‘T~ nessed their impieties believed that
tij» § <j>alyea6at, to"? -tine r i that their joint sway was more exe-
m ir u n a m fiy u a n a S/tupuyoif. crable than that which the Shepherds
n a ) y a p o£ ptinon co'Xej? xal had formerly exercised alone. For
H upiaf evenpria-ay, o d e lepo- they not only set fire to the cities
atAwnef, ode Avpuztyipuyot and villages, but committed every
lia n a &fSy rjpxcvno, dXXd kind of sacrilege, and destroyed the
xal Tolf a iz o tf crm anloif r u n images of the gods, and roasted and
acfiatnevoiAenun lepun %uun fed upon those sacred animals that
Xpupenoi S u r e M iv , x a ) S r ira f were worshipped ; and having contr
* Hud. supposes some word such as r e y a r y in to have been lost here,
f MSS. inserts t i t t }». J Hafn. inserts xal.
§ Hud. from Lowth and Vet. Int.— ypuniy Vulg.
Digitized by Google
M AN ETHO . 181
xa! a tp a y tif t o v t u v itptTf x o i
•spwprriTcts TjyayxaJJox y a t a i a i ,
xa! yifUHivi 7jej9oAov’ A e y tr a t
8
" OTI T7JV 1t0X lT «l'a» X «1 T0ti{
voputvf a fa o T f xarajSaA X o/xoo;
ittd if, t o y tv o f 'HAM M roA/njf,
S n u a 'O ra p ir'u p , d u o to v Iv
*HAlov xo'Afid«o5 ’
Otrlptttf, i>(
[MTtfir] fi’c to E to to y tr o f,
utT treth] t o tvopuz x a ! t^ o o tj-
yoptvOrj M axxrijf.
pelled the priests and prophets to
kill and sacrifice them, they cast them
naked out of the country. It is said
also that the priest, who ordained
their polity and laws, was by birth
of Heliopolis, andhis name Osarsiph,
from Osiris the god of Heliopolis:
but that when he went over to these
people his name was changed, and
he was called Moyses.—Joseph, contr.
App. lib. I. c. 26.
OF THE SHEPHERDS AND ISRAELITES.
(Aeyti it o M
o»0i4» is- (Manetho again says :) After this
X i» .) * O t» p itr a Tavra Amenophis returned from Ethiopia
do o'Aftevoxpif ato A!0ioi»a« with a great force, and Rampses also,
fttrd ptydXyt 8ityduevs, xa! his son, with other forces, and en-
i v&f avroV Pd,u\f^i< xa! ai- countering the Shepherds and the
to?t%on lCvafj.it/' xa! <rufj.fid- unclean people, they defeated them
X
oyT
r; oi 8tlo to7; •K
oifU
/ri xa! and slew multitudes of them, and
roT; puapoif, ivnijaav aCroif, pursued them to the bounds of Syria,
xol »oAao8{ dvoxTtlvayrtf —Joseph, contr. App. lib. I. c. 27.
78»»£ay airov< a%pi t S v opluv
tnj( X v p ia (.
Digitized by
EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS.
OF T H E E X O D U S :
FROM CH^REMON.
META tovtov ejerairaf j9ai/-
\o p a i X aipripoya. x a l y a p
o v t o ( A ly v tir ia x r p (paaxuy !a -
t optar avyyp a tp ciy, x a l vpc,<r-
Srtig TavTo ovofut rov @a.<Ti-
'k tu f o-rcep o M a n B w ; ,' K jxiva -
tpiy, x a l to v vl'ov a ir o v V a -
p eaarjy, <pi]cri>, o ti,
“ K a T a Tobf v m o v( rj “ia i f
l<parr) i S 'A p cy& p et, pe/Mpo-
peyri a ir ily , 8t< t l Ifply a iir jf
(y TV m X e p a x a re ir x a n T a i.
^ptTK pavrrjV* 8e ie p v y p a p p u -
T ea (payai, ea v t u v Tat; p e -
X vapovf ly p y ro v ayBpay x a -
Stapri Try Aiyuirrov TOvVar-
&au ri){ v r o i a f f a i r l y . ’Eiri-
\e (a v r a . 8e r a y liw n v u y p v -
p ia la f e lx o rn te y rt ix/3a\e~v.
A f t e r him (Manetho) I wish to
' examine Chaeremon, who professes
to have composed a history of
Egypt. He gives the same name as
does Manetho to the king Ameno-
phis and his son Ramesses, and says
as follows—
“ Isis appeared to Amenophis in
his dreams, rebuking him that her
temple should have been overthrown
in war. Upon which Phritiphantes
the sacred scribe told him, that if he
would clear Egypt of all polluted
persons he would be delivered from
these terrors. He therefore collected
two hundred and fifty thousand un
clean persons, and drove them out.
Their leaders were two scribes called
* +
/?<
T
0/S
|$T
7|>
', tpiTO /Sim iy, Al. MSS. f w t 6*{ El.
Digitized by U r O O Q l e
EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS. 183
'H ytia S a i 8’
a vrS y y p a y y a - Moyses and Josephus, the latter of
T
<a«Muwriji'tt xoi TaJjiproy, whom was a sacred scribe : but their
xa! to D to v lep cy p a y y a rta . Egyptian names were, that of Moyses
A ly v im a 8’ oCt«( ovo'/xara Tisithen, and that of Josephus Pete-
eltou, t $ yev MdOotj Timflev, seph. They bent their way towards
rf 8e ’I«*njirpri«Ttrfip. Tow
- Pelusium where they met with three
tcu; 8’ tlf IlrWa-uy A8f<>, hundred and eighty thousand men left
xal in iT v x ^ y yvptdot rp ta - there by Amenophis, whom he would
MyTcuv.ru vaTaktAttyevat; not suffer to come into Egypt.
in ti to w ’A y u v o p u f a ( oi & o -
Xtiy Tijy ArywxTor htaxcyt-
£ ir.
O l{ (piXlay a v v B ty tv sv ; l x ) With these they made a treaty and
rip Arywrov <
rrparevrat. invaded Egypt. But Amenophis
T
oy 8« 'AfAfyaxpty oi>
x iiro- waited not to oppose their incursion,
jucivayra t^v cipcicy airuy <i; but fled into Ethiopia, leaving his
Ai0ion/*ytpvycTv xaTaXnro'yra wife pregnant: and she concealed
T
tjy yvyouva tyxuoy. !jyx/iwr- herself in acavern where she brought
T
oueyijy«ytiwi oTnjX
a/oi; re- forth a child and named him Messe-
xth valla,lyoy.a M
eo-oijnjv,* nes, who when he arrived at man
o
r avipuBitna MiSiai rev; hood drove out the Jews into Syria,
T
ow
Saiow
f <i( T
T
jy 'Zvpiav, or- being about two hundred thousand,
rcn A vert fj.vpid.hai;, xal and recalled his father Amenophis
T
o
yvarepa 'Ay.empty in -nj; from Ethiopia.—Joseph, contr. App.
AiSstonla; xaTa8efow&ai.” lib. I. C. 32.
OF THE EXODUS :
FROM DIODORUS SICULUS.
K a ra Tr,r Arywirror to ir»-
Xaioy, Xoiuixri? rntpirraaiu;
ye.vcy.tvT,;, dvtittyvcv oI voX-
Xoi Tijr alr av ruy xaxuy irrt
There having arisen in former days
a pestiferous disease in Egypt, the
multitude attributed the cause of the
evil to the Deity: for a very great
Digitized by G o O g l c
184 EGYPTIAN FRAGM ENTS.
heufMVia*. voXkutr y a p xa*
TavTobavuy xaToixot^vrwv fc-
yajy, xa* S^XXa'y/xcvo^ €&
€<r*
Xpuf^ivuv nttpi to i*
€
/»
o
vxa* Ta$
S v a i a f , . x a T a X tX v rQ a t rt/ve-
jSaive ira^* a iro T f Ta$ vaT-
plovq r a v frcSv rifx a ^. ’'Chrep cl
t5jc x v p a s iy y & c iq uweXajSov,
jbt}/ T0t/$ d}X(Xpv\0V$ [A€-
/ / I v
Tarrv)< rovTai,xpuri> o v k €0
’€(T-
Sa» t£x xax£x. Ei&ij c’x
£en]\aTov[Aevav r u v aAXoe^-
x£x, oi jttex em tpavearaTO i xai
Spaa-rixaraToi ov<rrpcup(VT((
(£(fci<pri<rav ( u f T iv ff (paa-iv)
t l ( rvjv 'EXXdSa, xai Tivaj
J-repoi^ r lito v f i %o vt c l c ; afi&Xo-
yoof riyffLovctSi uv viytZvro A a -
xao< xai Ka5,ao{ tSx aXXax
iv u p a v tr r a r o i,
‘O S
e xoXt{ X
«
«
J
{ llintTev
ei( t!)x xvx xaXoujaexijx ’Ict-
Saiax, oi m fp u fX(v xej^tcxijx
Tvj( A lyv r.ro u , sraxreXSc 8e
epypwv ovtrav x*t’ Jxemit/;
r o i( x f» o v ( . rjy u ro Sf tSj{
dffomia; « orpotrayopovoixeyof
M a o rjf, (ppovyaei 8« sroX
X
Sj xai
avZptlq. n X tia ro v itaupepay.
O lr o f 8i xaTaXajSs^evc; r r y
X v p a v , aXXaj re xoXfi{ cxti«
xai t»;x xi/x ovtrav lnupave< rrd-
tijx, oxoualjofce'xijx 'IepsaoXu/xa.
concourse of foreigners of every na
tion then dwelt in Egypt, who were
addicted to strange rites in their
worship and sacrifices; so that in
consequence the due honours of the
gods fell into disuse. Whence the
native inhabitants of the land infer
red, that, unless they removed them,
there would never be an end of their
distresses. They immediately there
fore expelled these foreigners; the
most illustrious and able of whom
passed over in a body (as some say)
into Greece and other places under
the conduct of celebrated leaders, of
whom the most renowned were Da-
naus and Cadmus.
But a large body of the people
went forth into the country which is
now called Judaea, situated not far
distant from Egypt, being altogether
desert in those times. The leader of
this colony was Moses, a man very
remarkable for his great wisdom and
valour. When he had taken posses
sion of the land, among other cities,
he founded that which is called Jeru
salem which is now the most cele
brated.— Lib. x l . Eel. 1. p. 921.
N.B. The rest of the fragment gives an account of the Jewish polity, laws,
&c. It was the beginning of Diodorus’ history of the Jewish war, and is pre
served by Photius.
,y
Google
EGYPTIAN FRAGM ENTS. 185
OF TH E EXODUS OF TH E JEWS:
FROM LYSIMACHUS.
Ary« yap' ’Exl Box^offoi? He says, That in the reign of Boc-
toS A\yvm(av jS«<riA«a{, tov choris king of Egypt, the Jewish
X
aovt5v ’IovSaxov. X
cw
pot« ov- people being infected with leprosyf
rat xal \pupov(, xal aXXa vo- scurvy, and sundry other diseases,
tT^fjuzTii r n a (xorraf, e\{ r i took shelter in the temples where
kpa xaratpedyorratpcrcuTetn they begged for food; and that in
Tfw
pcjv. Ila^tctc'XXuvScivHpw- consequence of the vast number of
»ay woTjX/jt ittfivea-irrm, persons who were seized with the
Axapniav tv t j Alyvimp ye- complaint there became a scarcity in
tettSou. Boxxopw Sc, tov t5v Egypt. Upon this Bocchoris the
tiy v K T iu v jSauiXeci, eU"Au- king of the Egyptians sent persons
p u n a * m /ju f/a i ecep'i rrj( i x a p - to inquire of the Oracle of Ammon,
*/*{ rdf ftayreviro/Mvovf' tov respecting the sterility : and the god
0eov Sc eWeTvf ta. kpd xa- directed him to cleanse the temples
%apai an SaSipunuv av&y*w of all polluted and impious men and
xal tv o -reflS y, ^xjSaXXo'vra cast them out into the desert, but to
etfrol< lx t3v kpay c!<ronovf drown those that were affected with
ipefuv(, rot; Sc tpvpohf xa) the leprosy and scurvy, inasmuch as
Unpoi( /SiA/o-au, i>
( tov rfK
lov their existence was displeasing to the
AyaraxTovyrof Ini rjj rot'rcm Sun; then to purify the temples; upon
$urj xal t a kpd A y tla a i, xal which the land would recover its ferti-
oCtu Tr,v 'fix xapnofpopyjirttv. lity. When Bocchoris had received the
Tb Sc Boxxopix Tolf j^w
)<r/xols oracle, he assembled the priests and
XajSovTa to!1
( re Upe7( xal attendants of the altars, and com-
/*ij3«^/to{ npoaxaKetrdpoevov, manded them to gather together all the
xcX
cSo-oi ImXoyr^ nmrjaapLe- unclean persons and deliver them over
vov; tui ixaSapruv, to'o to the soldiers to lead them forth into
• "a fA[X(x)*o{ MSS. f *Ep»7v MSS.
B B
Digitized by Google
186 EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS.
iT r p a n u r a if r o v r o if n a p a ie u -
yai x n d ^ e i y a v zc v ; f i ; T ry
epr\fu>y' r e i f 8e X enpeif e lf pu>-
Xvfttii'yovf y jip r a f itS y r a r r a f,
ly a x a S s u n v e lf to neX a/yef.
B v a itrS e rru v So t£v XeetpSy
n<zl \peipuy, Tovf aX X evf or»«-
d p o tr S e y r a f e lf rm rovf Iprj/eevf
ix re S h fy a i in ’ anaX eiq.' 2o-
yayfiteyrotf 8f flov\(v?a<r$ta.i
etepl a u zZ y , yvxro f S' in iy e -
yopeyyf, nZp x a i Xiyp/evf x a u -
< rayraf (pvX drreiy ia v r o v f,
Tyjy t ’ em oZtray y ix r a v/\a -
reva ra yra f i X a m e r h a i r e i f
S e o if, nepi too <ru<rai a i r e i f .
T j 8’ intevr-p pfxeppL M ctiarjy
tiya avpxfievXeZtTai a i r e i f ,
napafiaX Xo/xeyovf p la y 060v
re/xyeiy, a y p if ar * eXxlenriy elf
r e n e v f olxavfjLevcvf, n a p a x e X e i-
GCUT&ai Te a ir e i f, ^ T e &y-
xtpunuy tiw eiyepaeiy, aifre
a p ia r a avfjifiovXevreiv, aX X d
Ta yjupeya' d e S y r e yaoo{ xai
fiu p w if, elf a y n e p irifyu c iy ,
& yarpeneiy. SvvGuxetrdvTa'v
ie r& y aX X uy, lie h e yb e y ra
neuruyraf 8
1
a t?{ ipyfx ov ice-
peveaSlai, Ix a v u f 8e o y /^ S e y -
r a f iX%e~y ei{ Try olxevpUyrjy
y u p a y , xcu TOVf r e ay^spunevf
vfiptC flvraf, x a ) r d lepa n X S y -
r a f x a ) l/enpriirayraf, IxBeTy
the desert; but to wrap the lepers in
sheets of lead and cast them into the
sea. After they had drowned those
afflicted with the leprosy and scurvy,
they collected the rest and left them
to perish in the desert. But they
took counsel among themselves, and
when night came on lighted up fires
and torches to defend themselves, and
fasted all the next night to propitiate
the gods to save them. Upon the
following day a certain man called
Moyses counselled them to persevere
in following one direct way till they
should arrive at habitable places, and
enjoined them to hold no friendly
communication with men, neither to
follow those things which men es
teemed good, but such as were con
sidered evil: and to overthrow the
temples and altars of the gods as
often as they should happen with
them. When they had assented to
these proposals, they continued their
journey through the desert, acting
upon those rules, and after severe
hardships they at length arrived in a
habitable country, where, having in
flicted every kind of injury upon the
inhabitants, plundering and burning
the temples, they came at length to
the land which is now called Judsea,
and founded a city and settled there.
This city was named Hierosyla from
* ay£t a> Sri Big. Hafo.
Digitized by U r O O Q l e
EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS. 187
€if rrp yvy *1ovfialav npotTayo-
ptvou.(V7)y, K zi'iravraf 7
toXiv
iv r a v S x y.'x.Toiv.uy. To 81
a trrv to v to 'Itp o a vX a * ano
z jjf itu iyu y h a 6«r(o>p uyof/uitT-
Stcu' Cirzepoy 8e airrovp e x t-
xpaTrja-ayzaf, yj/oytf Sia'AXd^ai
TTjy oyo/iaatay npop to ju ijJ
owiSj^eo-flat, x a i tijv te xo'Xiy
'Iepouo'Xo/ua, x a i airoiip T «fa-
<ro\vu.ovf npo(rotyopou(a,6a i.
their disposition. But in after times
when they acquired strength, to ob
literate the reproach, they changed its
name and called the city Hierosoly-
ma, and themselves Hierosolymites.
—Jos. contr. App. 34.
OF THE EXODUS :
FROM POLEMO.
Kal ‘EX
X
ijvuv 8* tik; icr-
Topovari K a r a too{ a iro vf yjpk-
yovf yeyi<rOat Moxrea.
IIoX t/tuy p jy iy t j xpeoTj
T o y 'EX.Xijvixuir la-ropiuy \t y u v
* E x i t o v A x i8 o $ Toil Q o p u vtu s.
pyoTpa t o v K iyvnr'iuv orpaToE
l£(ve<rcy XlyvnTov. oi iy Toj
naXai(7
TiVjj xaAovf*f«i tv p iq .,
ov m fp u ‘Apa.f3lcif tpnipray,
avToi SijXovoti o! p u z a Ma-
«&
>{.
Some of the Greeks also relate
that Moses flourished in those times.
Polemo in the first book of his
Grecian histories says, that—“ In the
reign of Apis the son of Phoroneus a
part of the Egyptian army deserted
from Egypt and took up their habi
tation in that part of Syria which is
called Palestine not far fromArabia
these indeed were they who went out
with Moses.—Afric. cited. Eus. Pr.
Ev. lib. 10.
* Quod, Upit otouKoxoujt. Uud.— M
SS.
t M fiaoT cu MSS. J Vet. Int. Hud.—Gr. omitted/oj.
Digitized by G o o g l e
188 EGYPTIAN FRAGMENT'S.
OF THE EXODUS:
FROM PTOLEM^EUS MENDES1US.
KaT€<rxai/'€ i f T7jy A v a -
pty “A f u x n f y a r d tov 'ApytTov
ytn/ji.(yo(“lya xo y, &( iy roTf
Xpoyoif dyiyp a yfxy i M
e»Sij<no{
flT
O
A
f^
taic$.
Amosis, who lived about the same
time with Inachus the Argive over
threw the city Avaris ; as Ptolemaeus
Mendesius has related in his chroni
cles.— Clemens Strom, cited Eus. Pr.
Ev. lib. 10.
OF THE EXODUS OF THE JEWS:
FROM ARTABANUS•
Tot? i l xprpaiMtyovf Tapa, And they (the Jews) borrowed
t Sv Alyvsrlm, m'AXa. /xty of the Egyptians many vessels and
hnuptara, ovx oXlyoy it Ipia- no small quantity of raiment, and
Tir/wy, aX
X
ijv re every variety of treasure, and passed
ya&ay, tiafidyraf tow Kara, over the branches of the river to-
ttj» "Apafilav ororo/M
uf xal wards Arabia, and upon the third
iiafidvraf ixaxoy toW, cV
l day’s march arrived at a convenient
Ttjv tpvSpay rpneutuf IX&tTv station upon the Red Sea.
daXaovat'.
Ka< Mf/uf>nat l**> X
eyeiv And the Memphites say that
• Artabanus, evidently an Alexandrian Jew, is said to have written about
a century B. C. The fragments of his history which have been preserved follow
the Scripture with some few variations and additions. I have inserted the above
fragment on account of the Memphite and Heliopolitan traditions of the Exodus
referred to in it. Its authenticity, however, is very much to be suspected.
Digitized by G 0 0 g l e
EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS. 189
ijtneifov oyra Toy MciWov Tijs
Xfifas, Ty]v a/jLVurt* rrjrftrav-
Ta, Sia hpZ f Tyf SsaXtiaarif
t o nXZjdof i t a p a m T a i.
’HXisinroXiTaf St Xeyay
ficiKaTaSpafAtiy to v jSacriXea
/otra iroXXijf Svya/xeuf a/xa
xai to7( xadttpufxeyoiq £«5oi{
Slut to Tvjy SvapEiy Tolf 'lov-
icu'ovf tu* Alywnuny xp^trauc-
vot>( SiaxOju/£ciy. T£ Se Miwwp
Se/av <
po>
yy\y yeveVSat irara-
{ a i Tr|v &aXoKT<ra> Tij p a fitiy.
to * Se Mutwov dxotiVavTa,
hiBlyoty t 5 fajSSu too £®aro<,
xal oStk to pte» vapca Siao-nj-
yai, Tvjy Se' Swapuy Sia ftjpa<
oSov Topovtadai. Xio<fij3a»-
Tojy Se t£v Alyvmtoy xai
iimiyruy, (fnjtr'i nvp avroTf ix
ray fpmpoa&tv ixXdjj.\pai, tjjv
Se xlaXcurtrav vdXiy ttji 080*
e'xixXwrai. too; Se AtyvxTiovf
v k o to to v mpo( xai Trjf nXy/x-
/xvpi$o( ndyrccf Siouf&apojveu.
ToSf Se ’IooSaiovf tiatpv-
yoyraf tov xivSvyov, Tpiuxovra
er ij & t j ip y /x u iia r p ix f/a i,
flpeXoyrof a£ro7( tov &eov
xpljxyov, o/xoioy eXi’jjup, yjovi
TapauXijo-iov Trjv yjpoay. ytyo-
Moyses being well acquainted with
that part of the country waited for
the ebbing of the tide, and then made
the whole multitude pass through the
shallows of the sea.
But the Heliopolitans say that the
king pursued them with great power,
and took with him the sacred ani
mals, in order to recover the sub
stance which the Jews had borrowed
of the Egyptians. But that a divine
voice instructed Moyses to strike the
sea with his rod: and that when
Moyses heard this he touched the
waters with the rod, whereupon the
waves stood apart, and the host went
through along a dry path. He * says
moreover that when the Egyptians
came up with them and followed after
them, the fire flashed on them from
before, and the sea again inundated
the path, and that all the Egyptians
perished either by the fire or by the
return of the waters.
But the Jews escaped the danger
and passed thirty years in the desert,
where God rained upon them a kind
of grain like that called Panic, whose
color was like snow. He says also
that Moyses was ruddy with white
• Artabanus ? Qy. Does not Eusebios here resume his extract from the
narrative of Artabanus ?
Digitized by Google
190 EGYPTIAN FRAGMENTS.
ytnai te <
f»
i<
r‘ rw M
tivaov, hair and of a dignified deportment:
vvfpa.Y.rt, iroX
uv, xo^'njv, and that when he did these things he
ittu/juvrixov. ravTa Si v/>a(ai was in the eighty-ninth year of his
ittfl C
T
1J mta oySo^xoyra age__Eut. Pr. Ev. lib. 10.
Ivvta..
Digitized by Google
THE FRAGMENTS
O
P
THE TYRIAN ANNALS:
FROM
DIUS AND MENANDER.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
THE TYRIAN ANNALS:
FROM DIUS*
ABIBAAOT T c te u rjira v T o t, o
v!o<a v ro v ESpo>/xo( "J- ^av/Xeu-
a tv ' oZrof r a otpof avaToXac
p i p j -nj( iroXevf J vpo<r(xoi<rey.
xai i^eiXfiy rd a<rrv iroroiij-
xtv, § xai tgu 'O'a v u t iig v Aio?
to isp&
vxafl’eauTo oy iv nj<rp,[|
%u<raui toy jxorafv tottsv, jw -
rjtpr T7
j r.oXei, xai j^vao!'?
&ya9rii*a<Tiy ^xoV
/xj)<re»" axa-
/Sa{ Be et( T oy AlfHayoy uXoto-
fAtjcre ttjv t£v vaSv xara-
oxewjv. To»B
eTupawouvra 'Ie-
porro\v[xo}v 2oXo/x£»a nef/.\pat
rpaur'i trpof Toy Etpvpioy
euyiyfMCTa, xai Trap’ avrov
XajSci* a£iouv‘ t o> So ptij
Sunj^TcvTa Biaxptxai, t i: X
u-
OF HIRAM.
U po n the death of Abibalus his son
Hiromus succeeded to the kingdom.
He raised the eastern parts of the
city, and enlarged the citadel; and
joined to it the temple of Jupiter
Olympius, which stood before upon
an island, by filling up the interme
diate space: and he adorned that
temple with donations of gold : and
he went up into Libanu? to cut tim
ber for the construction of the tem
ples. And it is said that Solomon,
who at that time reigned in Jerusa
lem, sent enigmas to Hiromus, and
desired others in return, with a pro
posal that whichsoever of the two
was unable to solve them, should for
feit money to the other. Hiromus
• Dion. Sync. f 5Ip y/itt Sync.
J Sync, omits riji t 6Kh j i;. ^ Sync.
II ,v Sync. Trap aorovipy K
C
ctrXaj6i7f El.
c c
Digitized by Google
194 THE TYRIAN ANNALS.
r a m yjr^jj-aza izco zlvu v. optu-
X oyy\ravza 8e z'oy Elpoiaov, x a l
[Ay SvtyO tvza X d ra i Tflt a \vty~
p la z a , noXXd r u n ■^puipiazSy
e\( to in ^ y ju ic y iv a X u r a y .
t l z a 8« ’Aj9SrjOAviv * Ti»a Tii-
pio» aybpa z i npoziBovza, X v-
r a i x a l a i z l v aX X a npofiaX tiy'
a pri X i r a r t a zov EoXopwva,
m X X A z p E lpu/xy ocporanorl-
r a i yjprfjfAaza.
agreed to the proposal, but was un
able to solve the enigmas, and paid
treasures to a large amount as a for
feit to Solomon. And it is said that
one Abdemonus, aTyrian, solved the
enigmas, and proposed others which
Solomon was not able to unriddle, for
which he repaid the fine to Hiromus.
—Joseph, contr. Ap. lib. I. c. 17.—
Syncel. Chron. 182.
OF THE KINGS AND JUDGES FROM NEBUCHADNEZZAR
TO CYRUS.
’
Eirl EW u^dXov zov fia r t-
X iu f im X upxtire Na/Sou)joSo-
yoropof zy]y Ti'pm i n rnj 8e-
x a z p l a 'f p u z a zovzov I fi a a l-
X tv re Baa/. tzyj 8ix a . p u z a
zovzov b ix a r z a i x a zo rzd S sri-
r a v x a l ib tx a r a v ' 'Exv!(3aXof
Ba r X a y p v ft?!1
*? Wo, XfX|9t);
’Aj98a/ou pLrjyaf S exa , “Aj3(3a-
po( iipxttpivt; pnjvafzpfif, M u't-
yoyof xal V fpdrzpazof zov 'Aj3-
SyXe/Mv b ix a r za i «tij i f , uv
pieza£v tfiariX ovre BaXdzopof
tviavzov tv a ’ zovzov ztX tvzrj-
ra v zo f, AnozzetXavza; fcere-
nipupayzo Mff/SaXov ix zrjf
In the reign of Ithobalus, Nabu-
chodonosorus besieged Tyre for thir
teen years. After him reigned Baal
ten years. After him Judges were
appointed who judged.the people:
Ecnibalus, the son of Baslachus, two
months: Chelbes, the son of Ab-
#
daeus, ten months :Abbarus, the high-
priest, three months : Mytgonus and
Gerastratus the son of Abdelemus,
six years: after them Balatorus
reigned one year as king: and upon
his death the Tyrians sent to fetch
Merbalus from Babylon: and he
reigned four years: and when he
died they sent for Hiromus, his bro-
* ’A/S$4yU0W GO.
f Several editions omit from Na/Sou^oBoy&
ro^o*.
,y
Google
DIUS. 195
B ajS & u i'o ;, x a l ifia& iX tvovv
! t i ) T ttra-apa. r iv r tv T tX tv -
TrjTarroq, p u T trifA ^p a n o tIx
dbtXcpor a&Tov tSpupuy, of /j9 a -
e iK tw rty c n i ttx o e ty . in ) to i/-
Tfiu Kfyo< T lip vu y ibwdurrev-
r tv .
(O & x a v v i n !p v w a < x t& y0< * Trl
T tr n j K O r r a T ttr tr a p a teal r p t i p *
/M jv tf •wpop a i r o T f . *EjSiip u p
fu v y i p Tfp't -J- Trjf tia fio v /fi-
l o n a i p o v f i w r t 'k r ia p r\p£a,to tto-
X io p x iT y T i!poy‘ r t i r r a p t a - y u u -
ieiuiTf V rr« tt|« ElptZpm
K v p t f i H t p o y j f to */)<{«{ * a p -
jX ajS cy.)
ther, who reigned twenty years. In
his time Cyrus was king of Persia.
(The whole time therefore amounts
to fifty-four years and three months.
For in the seventh year of his reign
Nabuchodonosoru8 began the siege
of Tyre : and in the fourteenth year
of Hiromus Cyrus the Persian as
sumed the government of that king
dom.)—Joseph, contr. Ap. lib. I.
c. 21.
• i£ Hafn. Big.
f liri Hafn.—J. Cappel. reads i/Styay /*!» y fy xeu t i x i r y S th , & c .
Digitized by Google
THE TYRIAN ANNALS :
FROM MENANDER.
TEAETTH2ANT02 ’AjSi-
/3aXou, SicSefaro ttiw /3a<ri-
Xe/av o ti»5 auTou Effxu/M?, £{
P'iuTai <zn1 ntvrriMVTa rpla
fjSaai'Xtuo-fv ?ti) * rpiayoyra
reaaapa.. ovrop c^awe r\v
Evptixvpoy, Toy to
xi'ovtz A to~( rev Aioj are^i)-
y.fy' €Ti "J" Tt uAijy ft/Xav aireX-
S«y (KOipey, airo tow Xcyojweyou
o/)ow
{ Aiftdvov, yilpiva. ftfXa
e/( rd{ r£y «^Sy trriyap. xa-
&(X£y Te t* apxaua Upa,
xaivovf ycu>l( pxoSojittjcre, to'
to too ‘HpaxXeow?, xal ttjj
’AoTajjTojj T€«fyo{ avitpewcv,
xai to /tey tow 'HpaxX«ow{
tipZroy t’roiijiraToJ A to! IIojj-
»ti'^j W
O
'JV
I, d ra to t^{ 'Arrap-
OF HiRAM.
Af t e r the death of Abibalus, Hiro-
mus his son succeeded him in his
kingdom, and reigned thirty-four
years, having lived fifty-three. He
laid out that part of the city which is
called Eurychoron: and consecrated
the golden column which is in the
temple of Jupiter. And he went up
into the forest on the mountain called
Libanus, to fell cedars for the roofs
of the temples : and having demo
lished the ancient temples, he rebuilt
them, and consecrated the fanes of
Hercules and Astarte : he construct
ed that of Hercules first, in the month
Peritius ; then that of Astarte, when
he had overcome the Tityans who
had refused to pay their tribute: and
when he had subjected them he re-
• Hud. from Sync, and Ant.—from jriyT^xoyra was before omitted,
f- «x) Sync.—itrtir a Vulg.
J rp tS rrm T t t >
)> t y i p n t t ow 'HfxxyAfows iiroojirixTo Al.
Digitized by ( o i O O Q l e
MENANDER. 197
r f f , o * o t € T(Tt»!{* ine<rrpd~
revaet, AiroSiSowri r o lf
(popovf. otf icai iiroTaJa; t x i ’T x
Takm avertpe^ev.'f too-
to u S c T ({ ’A jS Sij/m voc o ra l{
viertepof, «fJ EwVat<*irpo/SXij'-
juara, oi iite -ia a a e l e ’
Kopiuv
i ’U
poa’oXvf/.uv SaorXcEf.
turned. In his time was a certain
young man named Abdemonus, who
used to solve the problems which
were propounded to him by Solomon
king of Jerusalem.—Joseph, contr.
Ap. lib. I. c. 18.—Joseph. Antiq.
Jnd. lib. VIII. c. 5.
OF THE SUCCESSORS OF HIRAM.
TeX eunjo’<xvT3{ E lpupov 8<c-
8e£ aro T7
*v jSaarX eiay BaX<<£-
?«(»><§ o viof, t f , (9«j<ra{ e r f
ii'j'Ta.pdv.ovra r p la , ij3a<rl-
Xeiwe» e r f C7TTa. /U T a toE tov
’A ftSdarpaTO f j| i u v to v vVof,
f3iv<raf e r f tltu xn ivvea, l{3a-
<r'i\ev<rev c t f i n i a ,. toE tov oI
■njf r ptxpov a v ro v vloi r t a a a -
pef EirijSooXeEirayTe; aireUXc-
<raK, u» o upetrPirepof IfHaurl-
Xei*rev c rt) Sexatvo. pied’ o tf
’A o ra p T o j o A eX aia<rrapTov,^f
jStw ira; c ti) irevrijxovra
t ea tra p a , tf}a<rl'kev<Tev e T f t i -
S fxa. (Xf r i toE tov o dheXtpof
avroE 'A aipvpiof, * * fti& v a f
Upon the death of Hiromus, Ba-
leazarus his son succeeded to the
kingdom ; he lived forty-three years,
and reigned seven : after him Abdas-
tratus his son reigned nine years,
having lived twenty-nine: against him
the four sons of his nurse conspired,
and slew him: of these the eldest
reigned twelve years : after them
Astartus, the son of Delaeastartus,
reigned twelve years, having lived
fifty-four: after him his brother
Aserumus reigned nine years, having
lived fifty-four : he was slain by his
brother Pheles, who governed the
kingdom eight months, having lived
fifty years :he was slain by the priest
* Tit os El.—Lowth proposes Tup/oif—Titicseos Vet. Int.—'lux/oic ’Hux«/oit
MSS.—’Hl'x/ois Jos. in Ant.
f Sync, omits the eleven lines from r*.
% Sync, and Jos. in Ant. insert A
•).
§ B<x\8&%ipo( Sync.—jSaaAjSdcfifoj Dind.
|| Au'&0 T«fTOf Syn.—’A/S8dearafT0f Din. ’E k to ta r A fr o v Sync.
•• ’A ff^a p v p tO i Din.
Digitized by k j o o g l e
198 THE TYRIAN ANNALS.
ctij T tv a a p a xal TorijxovTa,
ifSatrlhevtTtv “
c n ) l»wa. oZto{
AitwXcto wro Tot aheXipou 4*f-
Xijto{, * cj X
ajStoy tijv fia<n-
Xf.av Jjpfe pM
jvac oxtcS, jS^tfac
tTi) *evT€xo»ra. touto» a«i-
Xcv EJSr»j9aXo{"J" o Tijc ’A t-
Tap-rijf !tp fi(, of, {3a<ri\tvoa(
ctij rp ia w vra Wo, IfH uafv
( T
1
JffIJK
O
V
T
a O
X
T
A
). T
O
U
T
O
VStf'
SefaTO Ba8c$«po{ J mo{, 0{,
/3iora( trrj •zt<T<rap&Mrza
veV re, tfia,trl}*v<Ttv c tij e£.
roifrou Sia8ox°< ytyovt M a r -
yijvo? § o vllf, Of, fii&aaf c ti)
zpiinoma W o, IjiSao'iXtvrai
« tij In fa, tok'tov SiaSo^o? y c -
yove "tt/yputX/a-v, || /3iu<raf S’
tTi) ircxnjxovra tf, if3a<riMv-
tTfv tTij Tt<r<rapaxo»Ta ivza .
iv 8c t)5 is* octroi/ I3 u u ? ctc*
ij aScX^/ij atro l^f tpvyovaa,
in rrj AijSi/i] ffoXiy ^xoSopcijo’f
K apxijS iva.
(Zi/vaycTa* S
r; xa< o yjponof
iso Ti){ EIpufuv j9a<r*Xe/a{
axpi K a p fflttM f Kr(<rfu(, enj
pvt ptijvtt i)7'** ‘Esc* St 8»-
S txiry tr tt t?{ ElpfSpuw f3a-
aiXt/ac iv ‘IcparoXi/pMif 9IK
0S
0-
of Astarte, Ithobalus, who reigned
thirty-two years, having lived sixty-
eight : and he was succeeded by Ba-
dezorus his son, who reigned six
years, having lived forty-five: his
successor was Matgenus his son, who
reigned nine years, having lived
thirty-two : and he was succeeded by
Phygmalion who reigned forty-seven
years, having lived fifty-six: in the
seventh year of his reign his sister
fled from him, and founded the city
of Carthage in Libya.
(Whence it appears that the sumof
the whole time from the reign of Hi-
romus to the foundation of Carthage
is 155 years and 8 months. And since
the temple in Jerusalem was built in
the twelfth year of the reign of Hiro-
• <t>iKhr)T0 i Sync. f E Q 6 $ a X o s Sync.
J bo tki{u jp o ; D in.— B £ \fa p o s Go.
§ M«ti»os D in.— M ^ripos B.— A«t 7>os Go.
|| MvylaXiwt to jc /i* vou> Sync.— H vy/ia K itu v G o. m .— frjai/xapoO * Go.
IF Sc. inserts AiW*. • • H u d . from T heoph. A n t.— * V ulg.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
MENANDER. 199
o r a h ;, yeyortr dir * mus, therefore from thebuilding of the
i v l t5j{ oJito8of*i)<
7€B{ t o r a m temple to the foundation of Carthage
«Xfi Ka^Sovo? xt/«»>{, €T
i) the time is a hundred and forty-three
fxarow T
eo-o-apaxovT
a Tpiaf years and eight months.)—Jos. cont.
pajrtf oxtoS.) Ap. lib. I. c. 18.—Sync. 183.
OF THE INVASION OF SALMANASAR.
Kai 'E/.ouXaic; J oropia
if}a<rl\evtrer erri T p t a x o v r a t f .
dvrof, d r o o r a m i r K<tta la r , §
a rd x\e v < ra f, vp w y jy d y ero a i -
T tl f iraKir. iiii roiSrovf 7
Tfu-
>|/a<(2 qX fjM .m aap) o r S r ’A ir-
rvplur fia triX e if, <toi-
rU yr itoKspSir d tta r a r . o( r i(
<met<rdpi.ero( elpyryr, u f~ d
r d r r u r drexSprjaer ml<ru.
dxeirrri r e Tvplur Sifta? xcw
’Axij 1
1 xai i] IlaXai Tt/po;
xai iroXXau aK K ai m \ e i ( , a t
r y r S r ‘A iravplur e a vru $ 3 a -
n \ e i ra pedaaav. 6io Tv p lu r* *
evX v rte ra ye rru r ir a \ir o 3 a -
a i \ e l f l x a i r o l f vr.ea -7 p a ip e,
ieirieur avfun^ripuiTdrrur ’j')'
a i r y ta v ( l£ y x o rr a , xo!
i v i r S x m f o x T a x e trim ;, a l f § §
inm\eiS<rarres rf Tupioi rava1
Elulseus reigned thirty-six years :
and he fitted out a fleet against the
Cittseans § who had revolted, and re
duced them to obedience. But Sal-
manasar, the king of the Assyrians,
sent them assistance, and overran
Phoenicia: and when he had made
peace with the Phoenicians he return
ed with all his forces. And Sidon,
and Ace (Acre), and Palsetyrus, and
many other cities revolted from the
Tyrians, and put themselves under
the protection of the king of Assyria.
But as the Tyrians still refused to
submit, the king made another expe
dition against them : and the Phoe
nicians furnished him with sixty ships
and eight hundred rowers : and the
Tyrians attacked him with twelve
ships, and dispersed the hostile fleet,
and took prisoners to the amount of
• Hafn. omits. f irri ty \y Theoph. Ant.—p/iy Sync.
1 ’EAjAaios Fr. § Cyprios Sc.—Usher proposes I'lT-Tot/air.
|| Some have"Apxii.. *[ Periz. thinks it should be Biipi/ris.
•• Big. Sarab. and Vat. insert aur*.
f t Epiphanius reads it Phcenicibus exhibentibus.
J* 70. Epiph. §§ ols Epiph.
yGoogle
200 TH E TYRIAN ANNALS*
S e x a S iw , t£ v y a S y r S y d y n -
n d ? .v y S io u n r a p e ia S y , k a y - S a .-
y o v tn y a l x f i a k u T c v s a y S p a f (l<
TrfyTaxwi'oLf. i n e r d i y ; 8>j i i a y -
r S y l y T v p f TijKij 8 ia to u tiz .
d y a £ e v £ a ( S’ o r a y ‘X ir a v p la y
f3x< n\fvs xaTw rrija-f <pv\axa<
i n ! to S h o ta fu iu x a l r£ » L-Spx-
y u y l u y , «S SfcxxoiXwrown Tu-
pioti? ^ x a l t^ l/t o
€Tfs-i n i r r t y t y ip i c m y , i x a p -
zip7)<Ta» nlyovin itc <f>p*<XTvy
i p x n n u y .
five hundred men: upon which ac
count the Tyrians were held in great
respect.* But the king of Assyria
stationed guards upon the river and
aqueducts, topreventtheTyriansfrom
drawing water: and this continued
five years, during all which time they
were obliged to drink from the wells
they dug.—Joseph. Antiq. Jud. lib.
IX. c. 14.
• *Ap&iffSau Vat.—ifCiaSou Fr.
f Aucta hinc apud Tyrios rerum omnium pretia. Grot.
Digitized by V j O O Q l e
CARTHAGINIAN FRAGMENTS:
FROM
HANNO AND HIEMPSAL.
D D
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
THE PERIPLUS OF HANNO.
ANNONOS THE VOYAGE
KAPXHAONIQN BA2IAEQ2
IlE P lnA O T S ,
OF H AN N O, COMMANDER OF T H E
CARTH AG IN IAN S,
TON in ip T a{ 'H paxX eovf
m j \ a ( AtfSvxSSv r ijf y rjf /xe-
pav, ov m i iyf^rjxey h
rov Kpovciv * Tf/xc» « , SrjXotivTa
t a 8 t.
Kap%rj8ov/oi{, *Av-
vwya TrXeiV «£a> 'H p a x -
Xciay, m l iroXfi? x iiC fiy A ifSv-
<poi»txav. m i orX tvvtK , irtn rij-
xorripwf efijxoxTa oiyav, xai
iySpuy x a i y v v a iy S v ,
f\( apA/xov /xvpux&avtp iu y , m i
v i r a , x a i t>jv aAXtjy taprxrr-
xivrjy.
R o u n d the parts of Libya which lie
beyond the Pillars of Hercules,
which he deposited in the temple of
Saturn.
It was decreed by the Carthagi
nians that Hanno should undertake
a voyage beyond the Pillars of Her
cules, and found Libyphoenician
cities. He sailed accordingly with
sixty ships of fifty oars each, and a
body of men and women to the num
ber of thirty thousand, and provi
sions and other necessaries.
'Q{ S
’ a v a y f i l v r a t When we had passed the Pillars
■nuprifM
Lipa.iJLcv, ml on our voyage, and had sailed beyond
rXovn Svoty y /x ip a t iirXev'- them for two days, we founded the
<ra/xcv, ixTio-a/xt* vpa-rip xo- first city, which we named Thymia-
• Junonis Plin. Solinus.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
204 CARTHAGINIAN FRAGMENTS.
Xjv, rjm > a avojjM rajM v 8 v ~
luaTtjfim'* ncSlov S’ avnyj
fjeya. v a ry' n ^ n t n a npof i<r-
nipay aya%S(VT(f, in) ZoXo-
evna Aif3w.lv aYporrvjpiov, kd-
aiov itv$p«n <rwykSopuv, cvSa
noo-fiSSvof Uplv ilpvtdjJtvoi,
nakiv ixefivijMV apis rjkioy
Ayi'trxoyra rjjJ.tpas oj/xiirv, a%pi
lxofxi'<rdi)juei> «lf kijj.WjV oi
mffu Tr)f SakdaTijs xfi/xenjv,
yxO A m v pu<nr\v xoXXoD x o !
jJ.tydkcv. ivyjirav Se x « i ^Xe-
(pavTcf, x a! TaX X a S ty /a re -
jj.lij.tva xdjj.noXka*
Tijv T f kljj.vvp/ n a p a k k d -
E a rref oaoy riputpaf n ko vv, x a -
rtpY'tjaajj.tv "J" nokeis a p is rrj
S a k a t t j j Y a k o v le v a s, K apm ov
r e re ix p s, x a ! IV ttijv , x a !
A n p a v, x a ! M eXiTTay, x a !
“
Apajj.f3vv. xjtfxeJftey S’dva%-
%tvrc(, ykbcjjfy ini piiyav no-
najj.lv Alloy, a no nrjf Aif3vrjs
feovTa. napd S’
auTOv, Noa a -
Sf{ avSpemoi Aif/rai. )9«<rx>j-
ptar evtjjov, nap’ oT; iuelva-
ptty a%pi riyof, iftikoi yevopoevoi.
T o vt &
iv Se xa^’ vnepSev, Ai-
SiWf{ pnovv alfvoi, yrjy vepoo-
jJtvoi Srjpiuh-i] §i(ikrjjj.jjivrjY
optai jJLtydkoif, i£ uv ptTy <paa)
terium. Below it lay an extensive
plain. Proceeding thence towards
the west, we came to Soloeis, a pro
montory of Libya, a place thickly
covered with trees, where we erected
a temple to Neptune ; and again pro
ceeded for the space of half a day
towards the east, until we arrived at
a lake lying not far from the sea, and
filled with abundance of large reeds.
Here elephants, and a great number
of other wild beasts, were feeding.
Having passed the lake about a
day’s sail, we founded cities near the
sea, called Cariconticos, and Gytte,
and Acra, and Melitta, and Aram-
bys. Thence we came to the great
river Lixus, which flows from Libya.
On its banks the Lixitae, a shepherd
tribe, were feeding flocks, amongst
whom we continued some time on
friendly terms. Beyond the Lixitse
dwelt the inhospitable Ethiopians,
who pasture a wild country intersect
ed by large mountains, from which
they say the river Lixus flows. In
the neighbourhood of the mountains
lived the Troglodytae, men of various
appearances, whom the Lixitae de-
• @v/jicnri(ta S t.— Qvpicmifi& s Scyl.
f G em . proposes Y onyxloa/jn.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
H A N N O . S05
Toy A/foy. wc/>l 8£ rA o/n], xa-
TtiiceJv dv&(J£oimK{ a X k a a fJ if-
<pov$ T p u y \e iv r a ( ’ o i( r a y y -
r tp c v f Xmtuy iy fipo/Mif ((ppatyv
el A i ( lr a t.
A a f U r r tf he n a p ' a v r S y Ip-
p rpiea( v a p e n X te fu v Tr,y
«po{ lua-tijJL^plav, 8ifo
7)fu p a (. ix e ~&ey 8e n a X iy n p \
fj\iev iy ia y a r r a , ijfu p a ( ip i-
puty. cy& a ctpcpuy iv pa.iy? n y c (
xaKnev, yqarey puxpay, x v xAoy
e%
oi/o-<xy oraSioy t o r e ' rfy
x a T p x y r a fte y ,* Kepyijy cyepul-
< rarrf(. Ire x fia ip lp ie S a 8’ ai-
Ti)y ^ x t o u irf(>i«>.ou, y a f tOflli
wro’&ai Ka pyijilycp. tfix a
y i p o n \o v ( , ex re K a p y ifil-
y<K, i n i <rrrjfan, xtpxeiSey i n i
Kepyyjy.
To£rreS&ey «/{ iJpanfy tu fu -
xopaSla, 8id Tim? rterapuZ at-
y d h o v iia n \e r l& a n c (, XpcTTff.
tly e y 8e r%<rcv( j) A//xyij r p tif,
l*ct%ov( rnjf Kcpyrif. i<f>' Jy
ypupy<rioy wAwy x a r a r u e a v -
r c f , e»c r ^ y fxu^oy t?}{ X lpunff
}j)& eptty. vncp rjv cpyj fjt'y u rr a
in ttp ir tiv tv , p e r i ^ iy& pucray
a y play, Zeppuira Sryptia in /p i-
fj.itwv, cl te r p e n flaK K evres,
anrjpafcay rfpuif, x a h lc tr e f i x -
{K pai. ix e ib c r n \lc v r t( , <l(
trepey rfK^StfJtv ncrapirn p tiy a y
scribed as swifter in running than
horses.
Having procured interpreters from
them we coasted along a desert coun
try towards the south two days.
Thence we proceeded towards the
east the course of a day. Here we
found in a recess of a certain bay a
small island, containing a circle of five
stadia, where we settled a colony, and
called it Cerne. We judged from our
voyage that this place lay in a direct
line with Carthage; for the length of
our voyage from Carthage to the
Pillars, was equal to that from the
Pillars to Ceme.
We then came to a lake which we
reached by sailing up a large river
called Chretes. This lake had three
islands, larger than Cerne; from
which proceeding a day’s sail, we
came to the extremity of the lake,
that was overhung by large moun
tains, inhabited by savage men,
clothed in skins of wild beasts, who
drove us away by throwing stones,
and hindered us from landing. Sailing
thence we came to another river, that
was large and broadband full of cro
codiles, and river horses; whence
* xonwxlaafxt* Gesn. f yu«£T
T
«Gesn.
fedb
yGoogle
O
206 CARTHAGINIAN FRAGMENTS.
xai nkarvy, yi/jona xpoxo-
8eikoit xai *
'rnioit noraptiut.
oScv 8i) nakiy dnoTpi\]tayTC(,
ei{ Kipyyy cnamjkSoptcy.
’Ex«I$(» St &
r» ntm)nf3p!a(
inkcvTa/Jcy SwSfxa Tj/jcpa/,
tt /v yrjy napakcyopuyoi. r/y
ndtrav xaTtpxovt A\Sionc(,
tptvyotrcf tipcii, xai ov% ino-
aevoyrtf' driycTa 8’ itpSiy-
yotro, xai to~; ij/*Sv Aif-
iratp. t j 8’ o3v TtXtuTaijt
r-uippt, Trpt>
<
TupiJ.!<
T%
r]y.cy opctri
fjcyakotp SaatViv. »;» 8e r i
t£» SitSput £itka ciu8ij T t xai
noixika. ncpin\ci<ratrc( 8e
TaCra rj/jipap Stto, yitoaeSa
It S a X a T T ) j{ x&a/jaTi dpK-
Tpr/rtp, rj( ini Sarcpa npof t j
77), n&iiv rjv, 0&f» wrxTif
dtpeupupiev, nvp dyatfxpo/jevov
itctyTa'/JScv nan’ dnoindaeip,
t o poet nkiot, t o 8’ t X aT T cy.
'Tipevtrapievoi 8’ ix e iS e t, l -
nt.iou.ty e lf ToiptnpoaOet rj/t-i-
p a f n i t r e napot yrjv, d y f i 5J\-
Soptey ti( p ity a t YGt.noy, r.y
e tp xa a v o! ipuvjyicf xa k eT trS a i,
‘Etrnepov K Ip a f. i t Se rovTtp,
trjtrof r/t p te ya kij, x a i i t rij
tr/irtp, kipitvi S a k a tra u ir/p , i t
St TavTT) trjtrof CTcpa, (If rjy
d n o fia tT C f, ri/jip a f pier, oSStv
dtpcupZpuy, I t t pty v k y y 'y u x r e ;
8 e , n vp d t c not.‘
k it naiopteta,
x a i efiwyvjy a i k S r rjxovopict,
returning back we came again to
Cerne.
Thence we sailed towards the
south twelve days, coasting the shore,
the whole of which is inhabited by
Ethiopians, who would not wait our
approach but fled from us. Their
language was not intelligible even to
the Lixitae, who were with us. To
wards the last day we approached
some large mountains covered with
trees, the wood of which was sweet-
scented and variegated. Having
sailed by these mountains for two
days we came to an immense opening
of the sea; on each side of which
towards the continent, was a plain;
from which we saw by night fire
arising at intervals in all directions,
either more or less.
Having taken in water there, we
sailed forwards five days near the
land, until we came to a large bay
which our interpreters informed us
was called the Western Horn. In
this was a large island, and in the
island a salt-water lake, and in this
another island, where, when we had
landed, we could discover nothing in
the day-time except trees ; but in the
night we saw many fires burning, and
heard the sound of pipes, cymbals,
drums, and confused shouts. We
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
H A N N O . 207
xv/x/Sa\av re xal rvpr&vuv were then afraid, and our diviners or-
riraryov, xal xpavyyr pv- dered us to abandon the island. Sail-
plav. 4»'j9of olv “
e\a\9ey ing quickly away thence, we passed
ypaf, xal ol udvreif txeXevov a countryburning with fires and per-
ixkeiiteiv ryv vijcro
v
. ra%i 8’ fumes ; and streams of fire supplied
ixxXfvVavTe;, rapypei^ipeBa from it fell into the sea. The coun-
xtyav Siampo* &vpiapdruv' try* was impassable on account ofthe
perrol 8’ air’ ati-njt mipdien heat. We sailed quickly thence, being
pvaxef, hifiahhcv e'i( ryv %d- much terrified ; and passing on for
Aarray. y yy 8’ im Sippyf, four days, we discovered at night a
d\9aro( yv. ra%v olv xpxeUSev country full of fire. In the middle
dreitherlrapev was a lofty fire, larger than the rest,
rtrrapaq 8
*ypepetf ipepopevot, which seemed to touch the stars.
wxrot ryv yyv dtyeupupev, When day came we discovered it to
<p\oyof perrrjv. tv pietrip 8
’ ijv be a large hill called the Chariot of
jjX
jjSaT
ov ti nvp, rSv aXKuv the Gods. On the third dayafter our
peT^ov, ditrlpevov a( iiixet departure thence, having sailed by
rSv drrpuv’ olrof 8
* iiptpas, those streams of fire we arrived at a
Spot iipalvero ptyurrov, 0tuv bay called the Southern Horn; at the
Sxypa xaAoipevov. rpirouat 8‘ bottom of which lay an island like
ixeeSev, *vp6$ei( pvaxaq tta- the former, having a lake, and in this
pairX
<i/V
avTf{, dtptxopeBa elf lake another island, full of savage
x
o
'X
irov, N
o'rov Kepat \eyope- people, the greater part of whom
vov. it 81 rS pvyS, vyrof yv, were women, whose bodies were
eoiKvla ryj irparij, Xfpvyv ex°v- hairy, and whom our interpreters
<
ra‘ xal tv ravry, vyrof yv called Gorillae. Though we pursued
irepa, perry dvOp&nov ay- the men we could not seize any of
pluv. iroX
t 8e itX
e/ot>
{ yrav them ; but all fled from us, escaping
yvva.~v.ef, Saereiai roif rupa- over the precipices, and defending
«<
>
<
• d f el ippyveet Ivakow themselves with stones. Three women
TopiKKaf" didxovref it, dvbpaf were however taken; but they at-
pev, rvXkafielv oC
x y&vvySy- tacked their conductors with their
pev' a X X a etdvret pev ’£e<pv- teeth and hands, and could not be
yav, xpypvefUdrat ovref, xal prevailed upon to accompany us.
ro't perplotf -f- dpvvipevoi. Having killed them, we flayed them,
* Q y. the earth. t r irp o tf Gem.
Digitized b; Google
208 CARTHAGINIAN FRAGMENTS.
y w a n a f Si rpttf, at S<(kmv- and brought their skins with us to
g-ai n iu) rta^ m u c’d t«v< Carthage. We did not sail further
&yrra< »£x im aSai. on, our provisions failing us.
dwOKTxbmyrtf pirroi avra<,
iZtbtifafuy, Ka< xiif tcptif
{KOfU&a/MV Kafr/fibiva, oi
y&f 3V( in ktvrapn tftr m ifa ,
tm oVt** i\pa( trtfa d rrw .
Digitized by
HIEMPSAL:
F R O M S A LL US T .
OF THE AFRICAN SETTLEMENTS.
S e d qui mortales initio
Africam habuerint, qui-
que postea accesserint,
aut quo modo inter se
permixti sint, quamquam
ab ea fama, quae pleros-
que obtinet, diversum est;
tamen, ut ex libris Puni-
cis, qui regis Hiempsalis
dicebantur, interpretatura
nobis est: utique rem
sese habere, cultores ejus
terrae putant, quam pau-
cissimis dicam. Caete-
rum fides ejus rei penes
auctores erit.
Africam initio habuere
Gaetuli, et Libyes, asperi,
incultique, quis cibus erat
caro et ferina, atque humi
pabulum, uti pecoribus.
B u t what race of men first had pos
session of Africa, and who afterwards
arrived, and in what manner they
have become blended with each
other; though the following differs
from the report which is commonly
current, yet I will give it as it was
interpreted to me from the Punic
books, which are called the books of
King Hiempsal, and will explain in
as few words as possible the opinion
of the inhabitants of the land itself
relative to the matter in question.
But its authenticity must rest upon
the credit of its authors.
The aboriginal possessors of Africa
were the Gaetulians and Libyans, a
rough unpolished race, whose food
was flesh and venison, and the pastur
age of the ground like cattle. They
E E
Digitized by
210 CARTHAGINIAN FRAGMENTS.
Hi neque moribus, neque
lege, aut imperio cujus-
quam regebantur; vagi,
palantes, quas nox coe-
gerat, sedes habebant.
Sed postquam in His-
pania Hercules, sicut Afri
putant, interiit, exercitus
ejus compositus ex gen-
tibus variis, amisso duce,
ac passim multis sibi
quisque imperium peten-
tibus, brevi dilabitur. Ex
eo numero Medi, Persae,
et Armenii, navibus in
Africam transvecti, proxi-
mos nostro mari locos oc-
cupavere. Sed Persae
intra Oceanum magis:
hique alveos navium in-
versos pro tuguriis ba-
buere : quia neque mate
ria in agris, neque ab His-
panis emundi, aut mutandi
copia erat. Mare mag
num, et ignara lingua
commercia prohibebant.
Hi paulatim, per connu-
bia, Gaetulos secum mis-
cuere ; et quia saepe ten-
tantes agros, alia, deinde
alia loca petiverant, semet
ipsi Numidas appellavere.
Cseterum adhuc aedificia
Numidarum agrestium,
were neither restrained by morals,
nor law, nor any man’s government;
wanderers and houseless, taking up
their abode wherever they might
chance to be, when night came upon
them.
But when Hercules perished in
Spain, according to the opinion of
the Africans, his army, composed of
various nations, upon the loss of its
leader, and from the factious attempts
of many to assume the command was
quickly dispersed. From its ranks
the Medes, Persians, and Armenians,
having passed over by shipping into
Africa, occupied the parts bordering
upon our sea. The Persians settled
towards the Atlantic Ocean; and
formed cottages of the inverted
hulls of their vessels ; for they could
neither obtain the requisite materials
in the fields, nor had the means of
buying them or trafficing for them
with the Spaniards : inasmuch as the
magnitude of the sea, and ignorance
of each others language, prevented all
intercourse between them. Within
a short time, by marriages, they
blended themselves with the Gaetu-
lians, and because they frequently
changed their situations, and passed
from one place to another, they as
sumed the name of Numidians. And
to this day the buildings of the wild
Numidians, which they call Mapalia,
are of an oblong form, with roofs in-
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
H IEM PSA L. 21 1
quae m apalia illi vocant,
obloDga, incurvis lateri-
bus tecta, quasi navium
carinae sunt.
Media autern, et Ar-
meniis accessere Libyes.
Nam hi propius mare
A&icum agitabant: (Gae-
tuli sub sole magis, haud
procul ab ardoribus:)
hique mature oppida ha-
buere. Nam, freto divisi
ab Hispania, mutare res
inter se insdtuerant. No
men eorum paulatim Li
byes corrupere, barbara
lingua Mauros pro Medis
appellantes. Sed res Per-
sarum brevi adolevit; ac
postea Numidae nomine,
propter multitudinem, a
parentibus digressi, pos-
sedere ea loca, quae prox-
ima Carthaginem Numi-
dia appellatur. Deinde,
utrique alteris freti, fini-
timos armis, aut metu sub
imperium suum coegere;
nomen gloriamque $ibi
addidere: magis hi, qui
ad nostrum mare proces-
serant, quia Libyes, quam
Gaetuli, minus belbcosi:
denique Africae pars in
ferior pleraque ab Numi-
curvated in the sides like the holds
of ships.
The country occupied by the
Medes and Armenians bordered upon
that of the Libyans, for they occupied
the parts nearer to the African sea,
whilst the Gaetulians were more to
wards the sun, not far from the torrid
zone : and they quickly built cities
for, separated from Spain only by
the straits, they established a mutual
commerce. Their name was pre
sently corrupted by the Libyans, who
in their barbarous language called
them Mauri (Moors) instead of
Medes. The affairs of the Persians
in a short time became prosperous,
and a colony under the name of Nu-
midians left their original settlements
on account of their numbers, and
took possession of that part of the
country which is next to Carthage
and now called Numidia. Moreover,
by mutual assistance, they subjected
their neighbours to their dominion
either by the force or terror of their
arms, acquiring gTeat renown and
glory; those more particularly which
border upon our seas, inasmuch as
the Libyans are less warlike than the
Gaetulians, till at length chief of the
lower part of Africa was possessed
by the Numidians, and all the con-
212 CA RTHAGINIAN FRAG M EN TS.
dis possessa est: victi quered merged in the name and nation
omnes in gentem nomen- of the conquerors,
que imperantium conces-
sere.
Postea Phcenices, alii The Phoenicians afterwards sent
multitudinis domi minu- forth colonies, some in order to dis-
endae gratia, pars imperii pose of the superfluous multitude at
cupidine solicitata plebe, home, others from the ambition of
et aliis novarum rerura extending their empire at the solici-
avidis, Hipponem, Adri- tations of the people and those who
metum, Leptim, aliasque were desirous of innovation, and
urbes in ora maritima founded the cities of Hippo, Adrime-
condidere : eaeque brevi tus, Leptis, and others upon the sea
multum auctae, pars ori- coast, which in a short time were
ginibus suis praesidio, raised to consequence, partly for
aliaeque decori fuere. defence to their parent states, and
partly for their honor.—Bell. Jug.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
INDIAN FRAGMENTS:
FROM
MEGASTHENES.
Digitized by G o o g l e
Digitized by G o o g l e
MEGASTHENES.
OF THE INVASIONS OF INDIA.
2TNAriO*AINETAI Be iru(
xal Meyo<riW«j{ t$5 Aoyf
Tovrf), y u X tilw i m n c i y r a t f
ifX a la tq itepl ’Iy8»y Zo-ro-
O v tc y a p ita p ' "Iy8£y e£a>
oraXrjvai xoTe tr rp a n A v , o u t ’
ireA H ttv e£a>flfv xal xpa-nj-
trai, itA yv r ijf p u f f 'HpaxAe'-
ou; xal A iovvacv, xal ttjj you
/MTa MaxeBo'yair. Ka/ t o i
X c tra rrp tr p«y Toy A lyu x rio y
xal Ttotpxoiya Toy AZ&iVira
E v p u m if xpoeASely. Na-
uoxoBpooopoy Be Toy xapa XaA-
8a/o»{ €u8cx<pug<rayra *Hpax-
A
e'ouf ptaAAoy, xal ?»>
$ )A
w
y
i> Jura i' H*XPl tJL
*v Beupo
xal Tedxpowa cupixeirffai'
ixtivov Be xal fx T?j<’IjSijpi'af
et( Trjy Q p d xtjy, xal Toy Ilo'y-
Toy a y a y tT v tip / arpaTidv.
’I8dv0up<rov Be t ^v 2xt/0tjr
briSpa/xtiv T y{ ’A o -ta f ftej^pj
Alyu-rrou. Trj{ Be ’lyBixijf
M e g a s t h e n e s also appears to be o f
this opinion, informing us that no
reliance can be placed upon the an
cient histories of the Indians.
For, says he, there never was an
army sent forth by the Indians, nor
did ever a foreign army invade and
conquer that country except the ex
peditions of Hercules and Dionysus,
and this of the Macedonians. Yet
Sesostris the Egyptian, and Tearcon
the Ethiopian, extended their con
quests as far as Europe. But Navo-
codrosorus, the most renowned
among the Chaldseans, exceeded
Hercules, and carried his arms as
far as the Pillars: to which also it is
said Tearcon arrived. But Navoco-
drosorus led his army from Spain to
Thrace and Pontus. Idanthursus,
the Scythian, also, overran all Asia
as far as Egypt. But none of all
these ever invaded India. Semi-
ramis died before she commenced
tized by Google
216 INDIAN FRAGMENTS.
pyjStya ralruy aipatrBai. Kol
Etptpapiv 8’ &xo8av(Ty vpo
■rrj< hixopri<r€U(. Xlipaop
Si purOapopovf pin ex typ ’I v -
Sixtji peravtpipaaBai "TSpa-
*a<' fa f~ Si pi) tn parti-
aai, iAX’ £yyl< &&iiy pin*,
yjyU a Kvpt>( ZiXavutv fa ) M a a -
<raylra$. Koi ra %
ep)
'H p a vX fo v i Si, xal Aioyi*rou,
Meya<r&e«j{ piv per oXlyuv
nurra fiytirat' rSr Si aXXaiv
01 TrXfiovfy t!y lar) x a l ’Epa-
t o i atrirra x a i pv&uSy,
xaBistp x a i T a yapa toi(
"EkXriaiy.
the undertaking. But the Persians
sent the Hydracae to collect a tribute
from India: but they never entered
the country in a hostile manner,
but only approached it, when Cyrus
led his expedition against the Massa-
getae. Megasthenes, however, with
some few others, gives credit to the
narratives of the exploits of Hercules
and Dionysus: but all other histo
rians, among whom may be reckoned
Eratosthenes, set them down as in
credible and fabulous, and of the
same stamp with the achievements of
the heroes among the Greeks.—
Strabo, lib. xv. 686.
OF THE CASTES OF INDIA.*
85) (o M e y a rO ty ip )
to tSv ’IvSZv H
?.rj6o( f!(
f a r a pepr) SitjprjrOai' xai
Tot{ npuTOVf "j" p i v T0V( (fuM -
<ritpov{ fiy a i K a ra TiaJjv,
t k a x fm v( Si k»t’ api&p&y'
X pyirSai 8’ aSroij 18i$& p i f
in o u n tp r o lf &tio>ra{, r; too;
iyayXflvras' xoivrj Si toS{ j9a-
o'i\ i a f K a ra r r p p ( y a \ r p \ t -
y o p jyrp avvoSay, xa&’ 5j» too
vtov (to v ( a T ta rret o) tpttoiro-
<poi r S f3a<rihti <rvye\6oyrei; fa )
Megasthenes says—That the whole
population of India is divided into
seven castes: among which that of
the Philosophers is held in estimation
as the first, notwithstanding their
number is the smallest. The people
when they sacrifice and prepare the
feasts of the dead in private, each
makes use of the services of one of
them : but the kings publicly gather
them together in an assembly which is
called the great synod: at which in
the commencement of each new year
• Arrianus alto gives this fragment in his Imlian History, but not so fully
as Strabo. f wpSrrty Vulg.
Digitized by u o o Q l e
MEGASTHENES. 217
%ripa<, o tj an exao-To; airru v all the philosophers assemble at the
truvrafi) tSv xjrqa-lptun, fj t j j - gate (court) of the king ; that what-
pyja-ri *Tpo;'? d e-njptan v.apvun ever each of them may have collected
tc xal nep'i Xjiiw, xal ireXi- which may be of service, or may have
T fia< , * apoatpipoi toEto el; t o observed relative to the increase of
poo-on" o; S’ a n rp )( ty t v a y .t - the fruits and animals and of the
nof a \ S , niy.o( I it t ) <ny<jZn Sick state, he may produce it in public.
jSlav' Ton St n a T o p S tia a n a And it is a law, that if any among
atpopon xal arfXyj xpwova-i. them be three times convicted of
falsehood he shall be doomed to si
lence during life : but the upright
they release from tax and tribute.
Atvrtpav St /«/»{ final t o The second division is the caste of
Tun y tu p y Z n , o' iXeEirroi tt the Agriculturists who are the most
e lm , xal itia te iT T a T o i, o' In numerous and worthy. They pursue
h(TTpa.T(iif. xal aSti'jt tov ip - their occupation free from military
y a fy a B a i, v o k ti pri *poo-lonre<, duties and fear ; neither concerning
pi)8’ aXXj x^f/50, prfi themselves with civil nor public nor
<rt1xo«^- iro/,Xaxi{ yoEv in t S any other business ; and it often hap-
avriji yjponip xal To'-ira, to7; » pens that, at the same time and place,
•napaTCTayfiai a v p fia itfi, xal the military class is arrayed and en-
SiaxixSwtt/tiv xpo; too; woXt- gaged with an enemy, whilst the agri-
p to v ? oi Sc ipova-m yf n e a r .- cultural, depending upon the other for
Toixrtx dxivSoVa;, Tr/jo/Aa^oo; protection, plough and dig without any
?X o»to; itu ln o vf. ’E o-tI Sc Tj kind of danger. And since the land
y fip a jSao-iXix)} n a tr a ' ij.it- is all held of the king, they cultivate
&
oE 8’ airrnjn lv1 TtTa/iTai; upon hire, paying a rent of one fourth
ip y £ ( p n a i ru n xapntun. of the produce.
Tphon to Tun•notfj.inunxal The third caste is that of the Shep-
Sniptvrun, o<; f*o'»oi; cfoTTi herds and Hunters, whose sole occu-
xal SrpepparoT
pe<
f>
eT
n, pation is hunting, grazing, and selling
anui re napixun, xal piaiov cattle, for which they give a premium
?f<
'VI- ’AxtI Sc too Tyn yijn and stipend: for clearing the land
ifavSepovn Srypi'on, xal Tun also of wild beasts and birds which
* Casaub. proposes t o xal Jaw*, xal wop) Sec. f 6ponci xal Al.
F F
Digitized by
S18 IN DIA N FRAGM ENTS.
m npiM 'A oyw Ip ttv r , fUTpiXiy-
t « i ytapd t o o (8 a f i ) J « ( u T tw ,
orX aw jra x a i aT op'/rip n tf/J-
fAfvtn f3loy.*
Mere* >yitp t o o { Slriptvrdf,
xai Tot{ notfM vaf, r e r a p r ly
tpr:T.y elyat fe-epoe, T«i>( ip y a -
%opUyov( r d f reyg/af, xai
TOO{ xamjAiKotif- xai oT{ ixo
t o o < ru/xan( jj Ip yo u rla ' i y
ol /uiv tpopoyf T f \ o v n , xai
X citovpytaf a a p ly a y r a i T a n -
rdf. Toi( 8* oxXoxoioif xai
vaoxiryolc /xicrOol, xai rpoepa)
v a p d fia m X c u f exxovrai,
yi/l iprydfyvT ai. ITa-
p*Xti 8t r d /**» oxXa Toif
r r p a r td r a if o <npar<xpv'Aa£,
r d f be yaV f puaSrov toT{ xXtoo-
<riy i y a tia p x tf, xai r e tf i / i -
aipoif-
T lepim ey i r r i to tu v m -
XepuiTTSy' olf roy aXXov yjpoyoy
ly ff^oXg, x a i t o ' x o i j o jS/o;
i r t ) y I k t o o jSaaiXixoo 8ia i-
ru p eyo if, U f r e r d f l£dSov(,
ir a y a y xp e la , T a y fx f xoieia--
& a i| 7tXtjv r u y r v p d T im jkijSov
aXXo xo/*i£o>>Ta; leap' ia v r u y .
* E xtoi 8’ fic iy ol efpopoi'
TOVTOif 8’ in o v re P a y 8t 8o r a i
r d TtpaTTOfMva, x a i d y a y -
destroy the grain, they are entitled to
a portion of corn from the king, and
lead a wandering life, living in tents.*
After the Hunters and Shepherds,
the fourth race is that of the Arti-
zans and Innholders and bodily La
bourers of all kinds : of whom some
bring tribute, or instead of it, perform
stated service on the public works.
But the manufacturers of arms and
builders of ships are entitled to pay
and sustenance from the king : for
they work only for him. The keeper
of the military stores gives the arms
out to the soldiers, and the governor
of the ships lets them out for hire to
the sailors and merchants.
The fifth caste is the Military;
who, when disengaged, spend the rest
of their time at ease in stations pro
perly provided by the king ; in order
that whenever occasion shall require
they may be ready to march forth
directly, carrying with them nothing
else than their bodies.
The sixth are the Inspectors whose
business it is to pry into all matters
that are carried on, and report them
* The narration of Megasthenes is then interrupted to introduce several
particulars relative to the natural history of India,
f <p4pom Al.
Digitized by Google
M EG A STH EN ES. 219
y i^X c iy \a 5 p a r f fieu n M V
e v n p y o v f m io v /x c m f * tA j
ir a ip a f, TOlf pity ly rrj xa ),fi,
Taf fr TJ X
O
A
C
l, T
M
f St i»
a T p a m f t p Tct( ayroB i. xo-
S lr r a y r o u S’ o! a p io ro t, x a i
TirtiraToi.
"EfO opui S’ ol fnjjxf^vXot
x a i tnlvdlpoi r e v fta a iX e u f, of
& T« a p x fT a , x a i h x a T rrjp M ,
xa) 7j Sio/xqirif tS» Saw,
ODx ea-ri 8’ oSto y a p a ty
i£ aXXov y iym if, otr’ t x t r y -
Itvpua o u t ’ ip y a trla p peera-
’
hanfSopetv aXkrjy {£ aX \y]f,
c£$e vX fto v f pura%eip!%f<r%rai
Toy a i r l y , nXy* t l T oy <pi\t>-
awpuv "j" ti( «i)j" t a tB a i y a p
T w ruy 8i* aptrrjy.
T o y St ap yp yT tn »i ptty
fta iy iy o p a v ip o i, cl S’ Aotu-
vtytoi, ol S’ ixi r a y tr r p a T W
Toy. rQ y ol ftto v o r a /a iif
l£epy££oyraL, xai ava/M T povr t
r ij» ynjy o f ly AVyv'rrf, xai
tA< xK c u rra f Siop vya g , b p '
a y ( I f r a f o y p r d a f r a p u fik -
T tu to Stiop ix u n u x o v c iy ’
privately to the king, for which pur
pose in the towns they employ women
upon the town, and the camp-follow
ers in the camp. They are chosen
from the most upright and honour
able men.
The seventh class are the Counsel
lors and Assessors of the king, by
whom the government and laws and
administration are conducted.
It is unlawful either to contract
marriages from another caste, or to
change one profession or occupation
for another, or for one man to under
take more than one, unless the per
son so doing shall be one of the Phi
losophers, which is permitted on ac
count of their dignity.
Of the Governors some preside
over the rural afiairs, others over
the civil, others again over the
military. To the first class is en
trusted the inspection of the rivers,
and the admeasurements of the fields
after the inundations, as in Egypt,
and the covered aqueducts by which
the water is distributed into channels
* T0/OVjul>OU$ Vulg,
f Arrian gives a different account of it.
MoCw <
r
<
Q
la tv kulrou, ao-
piffr^v ix irovffcs ynfof ytviaSar
I n wj /juiXS&ut TC&t coptffTyrt*
tiff) rot ir fiffta r a , aK hk it &vt o jv
tolKoutcui^toltol.
It is only permitted to them that a man
may become a Sophist for any caste, inasmuch
as the way of life of the Sophists is not agree
able but of all others the most severe.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
220 INDIAN FRAGMENTS.
iiru( f£/<nj;* *a<nv tj tS» for the equal supply of all according
HaTmirapilri &
’ t0 their wants. The same have the
avroi, xai tS» fypurrSv Im- care of the Hunters with the power
HtXnrrou, xai rifc^ xai xo- of dispensing rewards and punish-
Aa<reaif M xvpici to?; ha- ments according to their deserts.
{£>
*<
• xai tpopoX
tycviTi 8«, xai They collect also the tribute and in-
tA; rfoaf raj vep) rrjv yijy spect all the arts which are exercised
f*»j9Xeirowi, ikoripuM , tfxto- upon the land, as of wrights and car-
*•«», ^aXxtay, /xtraXAfirrSy. penters and the workers of brass
'0 8 «roM
S<ri Sr, xai xara 8«xa and other metals. They also con-
(rraSia TTtjXijv r r S iia m , Ta; struct the highways, and at every
lutporcoi xai Ta Siao-Tij/aaTa ten stadia place a mile-stone to point
8
ijW<ra;. out the turnings and distances.
OJ 8’ io-rwo/xoi d( ti irfy- The governors of cities are divided
tASo; iiypi/yrat' xai o! put into six pentads: some of whom
ta iijpxiovpyixa <
rxom
u<
nv, oI overlook the operative works : and
8
«(ao&
oxovo-iy' xai ydp xara- others have charge of all aliens, dis-
yuyh( vl/Mvai, xai to?; jSmi; tributing to them an allowance ; and
irapaxoXevScva-t, vaptipovs taking cognizance of their lives, if they
Sovref* xai tpcmfu.’
iravtT
iv ti give them habitations : else they send
aiml;, (j t A yjprpaara t 5 v them away, and take care of the goods
artSsmimav noaovyruv re of such as happen to die, or are un-
liriptfXovyrai, xai ixoSavlv- well, and bury them when dead.
r a t SavT ova-i. T p k o i S’ The third class take registers of the
elo-h, o5 Ta; ytyc<
rti< xai births and deaths, and how and when
Saratov; lieTogovar, mre xai they take place; and this for the
irSi, tux t t tpopav %
apiy, xai sake of the tribute, that no births
e x u ( pap a<pave~( elev a 1 xp elr- either of good or evil nor any deaths
tov;, xai xe//>ov« y> yal, xai may be unnoticed. The fourth has
S d v a r o i. T e r a p ro i ot nep) the care of the tavern-keepers and
ra; xairrjXe/a;, xai puTaj3o- exchanges : these have charge also
Xa;' ol; pU rpuv pxeXei, xai of the measures and qualities of the
t 5 v upatut ojtb; aite ova a vj- goods, that they may be sold accord-
nA iim . OSx t<
rri-j- 8e ing to the proper stamps. Nor is
• if ic
to
uAl. f oJx/t i Vulg.
Digitized by Google
M EGA8 T H E N E S. 221
r X e la t i v a tr lv u tta fi& tX ttr -
d a i , xXijx ct ittto b p lir o tt-
Xc/ij * tpipovf. TltfAirroi o!
t p o t t t u t t f t u v trjpuovpyovpit-
vuv, x a l to X o Z vrff, xo! ityopd-
JJovrc? t a v r a A*8 awa-tytav,
X P f H pity tit- x a iv i, x uf i i 8*
Tit t a X a t i i ' tip puyvZ vtt W
tflu ta . *Extoi 8c xal C r ta to t,
cl t i t s i t x A t a f lxXtyovt<< t u v
tuX ovpU vuv’ 5 d vato< 8c tip
vX eip a vtt t l t t 'x o f 18/ijt p iv
tx a o to t t a v z a . Koivzj f
h ip u X o v v ta t r S y t t M a y , x a l
tu v ztoX ittxZ v, "J" xal t!jc tu v
izipocrluv im tx tx n jf, ttp u lv t e ,
xa! ily tp a f, x a l X tp tvu v, x a l
Upuv.
M c t A 8c t o ! ( ia tw o p o v p
tp h r j i t t ) tw a p x /a . 1) zttpl
t i i r r p a t i u t t x i t , x a l aSrtj
irevr^inx i£ax>i itu p ttr-
pltvri' uv tr,v p t v p t t i t toZ
v a vip yo v t i t t o v t t , tr,v 8c
p t z i i to v M t u v floixuv 5«c-
y u v , i t ' uv opyava vutpiC ptat,
xa* tptxpii, a ito T f t t xal x tij-
v tfft, xal t a aXXa tA xprjtnpta
ti j i trtpa.tila.ci U ro i 8c, xa!
Totj 8taxivovp J ta p ty fiv tt
TvpuiavitTtcn xuiuvotpipovp,
i n 8c xa! Im o xlp o vt;, x a l
pzftpvozcotobf, xa! t d i ( to i t u v
irn ip e ta p . Ix v tp m o v tl t t orpi;
any one permitted to barter more,
unless he pay a double tribute. The
fifth class presides over the manu
factured articles, arranging them and
separating the stamped from the com
mon, and the old from the new, and
laying a fine upon those who mix
them. The sixth and last exact the
tithe of all things sold, with the power
of indicting death on all such as
cheat. Each therefore has his pri
vate duties. But it is the public
business of them all to controul the
private as well as civil affairs of the
nation, and to inspect the repairs of
the public works, and prices, and the
markets and the ports and tem
ples.
After the civil governors there is
a third college which presides over
military affairs, and this in like man
ner is divided into six pentads, of
which the first is consociated with
the governor of the fieet; the second
with him who presides over the yokes
of oxen by which the instruments
are conveyed, and the food for them
selves and the oxen, and all the other
baggage of the army: they have with
them, moreover, attendants who play
upon drums and bells, together with
grooms and smiths and their under
workmen : and they send forth their
foragers to the sound of bells, recom-
• AxoriWi) Vulg. t 7ro\tT£h Vulg. I AxAouf Al.
Digitized by Google
2 2 2 INDIAN FRAGMENTS.
)u S W o f roi< •xp prekiyw f,
■ti/up x a l xoXchrci to Td% :(
u>T3imwi^f«vt> xal Tijy
dtripdfaiav. Tplroi Sc clo’i oi
T»y xcijoiy ixtpuXorjfxtyti. Tc-
TajiToi 8’ oJ T<5y i*T 4>y. Ilc/XTr-
t oi 8’ dppuiT W . 'E xt oi S’
l\t< p d r r m . Ba a ik m o l TC
rta& puii x a i Jcnroif, xai V
(>/«»<” /3 a a i\n u v 8c x a i o*Ao-
tpnjKdy.M'' vapaSiSowi yip 8
o-rpaTi«Tij4 Tijy t c axcvijy c’
i{
t o iiO M fm X dxuy, x a l Toy Ixiroy
ci f to> i'xirSya x a i to Slrjphy
i/M ittf. X p S y r a i 8’ ajjaAiy^-
to i;‘ too 8’ dpp u xra iy ta~ <
oSok /3ocj cAxowiy* oi 8c ioriroi
airo <
p o p p ia f a y m n a i TOO ftij
•Kaptpw!npa,<r*!ai t o <rxc%),
jUi)8c t o orp & vpuy auTay w ri
t o k apyuxaiy a u .fi\vy ta ~ $ a i‘
bvo S’ ci<riy tTi to dpfjUXTi
a y a fid r a t * w p if ijy io ^ - i
8e t o o 8Ac^ayT0{ ^y»%o; t c -
Taprtf, rptTq S’ oi ax’ aoroo
t o J c i* w tc { .
E 8t c Xc <{ 8c x a r a t ijv 82ai-
T ay oi ’Iy8oi xayrcf.jalA A ay 8’
iy Ta<{ T T paT ta?^ ct 8’
■K tpiTif xp tlp w vi' burntp ci*
xoo’fM oiri.
The relation of Strabo
the laws and customs
extracts from
pensing their speed with honor or
punishment, and attending to their
safety. The third class have the
charge of the infantry. The fourth
of the cavalry. The fifth of the
chariots. The sixth of the elephants.
Moreover there are royal stables for
the horses and beasts; and a royal
arsenal, in which the soldier de
posits his accoutrements when he
has done with them, and gives up his
horse to the masters of the horse, and
the same with respect to his beasts.
They ride without bridles: the oxen
draw the chariots along the roads:
while the horses are led in halters,
that their legs may not be injured,
nor their spirit impaired by the
draught of the chariots. In addition
to the charioteer, each chariot con
tains two riders : but in the equip
ment of an elephant its conductor is
the fourth, there being three bowmen
also upon it.
The Indians are frugal in their
diet, more particularly in the camp :
and as they use no superfluities,
they generally attire themselves with
elegance.
is continued, with an account of
of the Indians; containing some
irrelative to the antiquities.
* * » fu B irtu MS.
Digitized by Google
MEGASTHENE8. 2£3
OP THE PHILOSOPHERS.
’’
Eyyvripu Si n lirrti( <fnj-
<rit i Meycur&ivrii, Sri ol ve-
rape) xaratpipout ifajypa
Xpixrov, xa) in ’ airov tpipof
i n i y o i r o r f f i a u r i h u ' t o Z t o
yip xa) it 'Ifiyptq, evpfiatni.
TUpi Si t 3v <pi\eiro<pw
yen, ro lf p it iptn&p afour,
e
p
e
/jO
’it, ipvrjri^ iivai rev Aio-
ylaot, Saxmrras rtxprjpia’
rfpi dyplat apm\ov erapi p i-
nif afoo~< <pvop(tnp, xa) x » t-
t&v, x a ! Sdtynjt, xa) pi/ffityp,
xa) iri/£ov, x a ! £ X X a ru t da-
& a X 3 x , at priSit avat atpat
toS Hitppdrov et'/Jjr it xapa-
Stiroif orrdvia xa) p e ri iroX-
Xtj$ ix ip t\t!a { nX,lptva.
iu tv n a x it Si, xa) r l ntSo-
vapopeir, xa) r i pirpotoSai
xa) pvpov<T&ai xa) fidnrtaQai
avSira, xa) rolf fia<ri)Jaf
HvSnytxpopaoSai, xa) rvpera-
tfyaSlai K a r a rip Sufftevf.*
Tot( Si mSian'mf rot ’Hpa-
xXia n p ft.
That is much more worthy of cre
dit which Mega8thenes reports, that
the rivers roll down crystals of gold;
and that a tribute is collected from
thence for theking :for this also takes
place in Iberia.
And speaking of the Philosophers,
he says, that those who inhabit the
mountains are votaries of Dionysus
and point out traces of him among
them, inasmuch as with them alone
the vine grows naturally wild as well
as the ivy, and laurel, and myrtle,
and the box, and other species of the
evergreens; of which beyond the
Euphrates there are none except
such as are kept as rarities in gar
dens and preserved with great care.
The following are also customs of
Dionysic origin, to wear linen tunics
and turbans, and to use oils and
perfumes ; andto precede their'kings
with bells and drums when he goes
forth upon a journey. The inhabi
tants of the plain however are ad
dicted to the worship of Hercules.—
Sir. xv. 711.
• IfO m e MSS.
Google
2 2 4 INDIAN FRAGMENTS.
OF THE PHILOSOPHICAL SECTS.
“AXXijv 8« h ialpta-iv n o K ir a i
T f p t t £ v 4>i X o a w p a y, 8 w y tv r \
( p d m u r , S r r o lp u t> Y ip a y ju i-
r a ( xaX <7, zohq 8e r tp u a v a p .
T o8{ pier tl r B paxpidra$ d -
8oxi/m2V, fJLaXX'jy y a p x a i ipxo-
Xo*ytlx i t r o i( hiypiairir' IJSjj 8"
x a ( m o p cio v t e%eir
eVi/AfAijTa; X tylo vf a»8p a t'
ot{ irpoaiovra;, Xoyor pitv in q l-
8ti» 8ax<~» x a i ttjv piyTcpa,
x a i to> xv ip u rm <i{ tir o tv /a x ’
t o 8* a X > a'oxppomd( T iv a;
ira p a ix e x cij, x a i w ro& ijxaf
8iSoxai* t<*{ 8" 5)8iaTa dxpotc-
f*.eva<, ftaXXox eJxexxovf eixai
vopufyirSai.
M rrd 8f t i j x ylvd T ir aX-
Xof{ xai aXXw< 8ia8f%ex&ai
Tjjv litty .i\(ia y , d i i rrjf p t! -
£ovo; • ^A ix/a; xapieaT cpav
TvyypniriK 8iSaaxdXax. A<-
aT/j/jSfiv 8e xofcj QiXoa'oepmf «x
aXcrei vpo xifc no'Xtwf, ivo ore-
ptfil'Acp a-vfAfutTpf, XnS( l(£x-
t * ( a rip d a -i, xai hopaTf,
dittyfiixirm i; ipt^xur xai
deppefii&lar, dxpouptfvovs \o y u r
tnzdx&aluv, p€xa8i8o'xTa{ xai
xo?{ ^&(Xomt(. Toy 8* dxpoS-
Imvov ovre XaXijirai
He makes also another division of
the Philosophers, saying that there
are two races of them, one of which
he calls the Brahmanes and the Ger-
manes.
Of these the Brahmanes are the
more excellent, inasmuch as their
discipline is preferable : for as soon as
theyare conceived they are committed
to the charge of men skilled in magic
arts, who approach under the pretence
of singing incantations for the well
doingboth ofthe mother and the child;
though in reality to give certain wise
directions and admonitions: and the
mothers, that willingly pay attention
to them, are supposed to be more for
tunate in the birth.
After birth they pass from the care
of one master to that of another, as
their increasing age requires the
more superior. The Philosophers
pass their time in a grove of mo
derate circumference, which lies in
front of the city, living frugally and
lying upon couches of leaves and
skins : they abstain also from animal
food and intercourse with females,
intent upon serious discourses, and
communicating them to such as wish:
but it is considered improper for the
auditor either to speak or to exhibit
yGooQle
MEGASTHENE8. 225
iivtt <
iX
X
’ «5
S
«any other sign of impatience ; for, in
TTva-ou' r, ixf3d.KKtvdai rfo case he should, heis cast out of the
avyowmt rrp> *u*i(*v bulrfu assembly for that day as one inconti-
uf dxoXa<naiyoyra. 'Enj 8' nent. After passing thirty-seven years
irrd xai rptibayra, ofruf inthis manner they betake themselves
Xfyrouva, Avaxppib <
>
’< to their own possessions where.they
iavrov xtfm y ftuum ty xai live more freely and unrestrained,
$jy aSf£( xai &Kiftem( they then assume the linen turiic, and
X
o», ruioxxpoptvvTa, xai yju- wear gold in moderation upon their
tTuptpwrra prtplut ly rolf hands and in their eats: they eat
yfpai w
»» T
«?f da-1, xp*a<pepa- also flesh except that ofanimals which
puny rdptcaf, pr)* rSv *po< are serviceable, to mankind, but they
ttjv xjxtay ovtitpySy X,uut, nevertheless'abstain from acids and
hpnmm xai iprurm Itmyfn.. condiments. They use pcflygamy for
puny, raptiy 8
"art the sake of large-families; for they
Tfffa!?loXirrootiav ix troX
X
w
v think that from many wives a larger
yap xai rd tfvevSaux x\f(u progeny will proceed: if'they have
yiW
S'au* &yaliou\ovtri rt tV noservants their place is supplied By
ix Tcxyuy, lj» put i%anrt 8
<
a
{- the service of their own children^for
Kovf, {nr/iptaiay, iyyvtdrca the more nearly any person‘is related
dray vXc/wSdV itapaurxtvi- to another, the more is he bound to
£eaSai. attend to his wants, -
Tok & yvxai£l tai( ya~ The Brahmanes do not'suffer-their
puTaig h i <
rvpuj»\o<
ro<
ptiy wives toattend theirphilosophical dis-
■nif Bpaxpayat' ei yuy juft- courses, lest if they should be impru-
Sepcu ytyotvro, tya py n ray dent they might divulge ,any of their
oi StpuT&y ixiptptuv *k tov< secret doctrines to the uninitiated :
fitfljjktvi' tl 8« <r*«v)a~n»w and if they be; of « serious turn of
xottaXtUouy aihovf. ■OuSoix mind, lest they should desert them :
ydp yfitvrit xai niwu. xvra- for no one who despises pleasure and
rppenprra, uf V aSn>( %
uSjf pain even to the contempt of life and
xai vfaxa-rw
j, iSffuw i<
j> ht- death, as a person of such sentiments
ptptvat’ tommy S
’ tlvai rw as they-profess ought to be, would
otcodaToy, xai rrjy avodalay. voluntarily submit to be under die
• pttixiT‘ Al.
G G
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
2*6 IN D IA N FRAG M EN TS.
nx*Mrrov< 8
*avToif tlrai U- domination of another. They have
yo v( t t f 't d a r d r e u ‘ repdCftr various opinions upon the nature of
p u r y d p 8i| t» p u r i r d d l t death: for they regard the present
filer, i f d r anfM p m e p u te n life merely as the conception of per*
ilr a t' to x i i d d r a z e r y t r t a u sons presently to be born, and death
t l f r lr oYTUf filer, x a i t o as the birth into a life of reality and
tH a lp u r a te~ f tpiXoa-crp^aae-r happiness to those who rightly philo-
id t j sraqm iXflrry yjft'r- sophise : upon this account they are
Sou Tfif to Iret/uStiraTor * studiously careful in preparing for
d y a S 'e r te }j r a r e r ptrfitr death. They hold that there is
etrou i& r a-uptfiatrirzur d r - neither good nor evil in the accidents
S p d r o if’ o i y i p d r to~f a i - which take place among men: nor
toJ{ r o l f pUr d x S e tr S a i, zm if would men if they rightly regarded
W xfitlpar, irvtriitfif irroXij- them as mere visionary delusions
4 * ‘{ IxorzoLf' r d l Tohf a ln o v f either grieve or rejoice at them: they
to “{ a ir e t f t o t i peer & xSt< r- therefore neither distress themselves
S a t , t o t * 8’ aL xalpem p ttz a - nor exhibit any signs of joy at their
fid K h tp u ra vf. occurrence.
TA Si vep) (ftiSa-tr, ta p d t Their speculations upon nature, he
ttr fitiv r ipupalvetr <pr\elr. tv says, are in some respects childish:
tpyeif yitp a in e lf rp tlrzev t, that they are better philosophers in
rj U y e tf tlra i bid pulSur t o their deeds than in their words; in-
voXXo aurrovpurevf. Hip) asmuch as they believe many things
ToXXax Si zeTf 'EaXtjo-iv o/*o- contained in their mythologies. How*
te ( t'r ‘ oti ya p ytYr/iof } ritr- ever they hold several of the same
p u f, xai <f>daprof >Jyuv r<£- doctrines which are current among
relrevf, r a t Stt <r<patpetthfif‘ the Greeks; such as that the world
S, « ZtotrSr a ire r, xai aetur is generated and destructible and of
S te f, it' ZX
ov ltaat<pelznrer a spherical figure; -and that the God
a ir e i' d p xd t Si t Sr pur irvpi- who administers and forms it, per-
a d rru r tzepau, -njf St netrput- vades it throughout its whole extent:
ncoitaf t» Ciup• vpof St toTf that the principles of all things are
ztT a p v t <rTo»xe/oi{, a tp u m i different, water for instance is the
y lf t<rti <pva-Lf, if i t { ovparof, first principle of the fabrication of
• irpbf rip tTo/juop Bdparop MSS.
Digitized by L o O O Q l e
M EG ASTH EN ES. 227
no! Ta ainpa' J’ h pery
’
Hfvrou Tov martin tuu itepi
encpi*aTO< if, xai 4,vX^f
Ipuua. Xcytrai, xai aXXa
xAf/i)' xapaxXtxowjr ic xa)
H&m/f, Smtp xai n?.ari'v
wp* Tf iufAapa-laf if/vX’iSt
xai tSk x a^ aiou xpltrcuy,
Mu aXka. toiavra. Ilfp)
f*f* t » » B p a x / x a n u x T a S r a
Xpyf»,
T o i i f if F c p p u iv a s , tou<
f*fx impumiTiivf *TXoj9iov<
</n)ar» wopu%eo%ai, ^Syraf h)
r a i ( CXaif, £xo (fivk A a iy xai
x a p v S y a y p i u y , icr&Jjroj if
tp X a tu y Z ty b p la y , iu p p u itu lm i
xai aSvov. Toi{ if
/SaorXfSin owfiVai i»’ A y y t -
X»v m v S a y o p t i y o t ( m p ) r a y
q t r t w y , xa) ii* i x t l y u y S c p a -
ntuovcn, x a i X iTaw w iw n to
SfioV.
MfTa it Toi{ "TXo^/ouj,
i t v z e p t v a y xara Ti/xr)» roi;
’Iarftxoiif, xai ir tp ) r l y & y -
S p u n to y , < pi\oa-o< pw f X itov(
JX
fV
, O
C
7
J Aypcci5\ov( if,
xai aKphoif T p f f a p i e y w f a
t u p e y f i y auT0<{ xavra ro>
aiT>)&fvTa, xai vxoSffa/Xfvox
(tyt<
p‘ tivytw&tzt if xai xoXv-
the world; that after the four ele
ments there is a certain fifth nature
of which the heaven and stars are
composed: that the earth is situated
in the centre of the whole: they add
much of a like nature concerning
generation and the soul. They
have also conceived many fanciful
speculations after the manner of
Plato, in which they maintain the
immortality of the soul and the judg
ments of Hades, and doctrines of a
similar description. Such is his ac
count of the Brahmanes.
Of the Germanes he says they are
considered the most honorable who
are called Hylobii, and live in the
woods upon leaves and wild fruits,
clothing themselves with the bark of
trees, and abstaining from venery
and wine. They hold communica
tion by messengers with the kings
who inquire of them concerning the
causes of things, and by their means
the kings serve and worship the
Deity.
After the Hylobii the second in
estimation are the Physicians, philo
sophers, who are conversant with
men, simple in their habits, but
not exposing themselves to a life
abroad, living upon rice and grain,
which every one to whom they apply
freely gives them and receives them
into his house : they are able by the
2 28 INDIAN FRAGMENTS.
•yoM
u
j m
i<
Tv) xal a^yoyinmc, use of medicine* to render women
,«a! &
ijX
tryo'iro<8 ia <paff>axtv- fruitful and productive either of
t i k r i j v tf laTfdav iA males or females: ’but they perform
<riT
€t»»to *\tw, o
i iA <
pap- cures Tather by attention to diet than
fjLcixuv iirrrt\ti<t%ah TS> the use of medicines. Of medicines
4>appdxm
y te fuikirra tCSoxi- they approve more commonly of un-
fifti ra Mxpi<rra, xal ta guents and plasters, for all others
xarorntJurpara' r&XKa le they consider not free from delete-
xamupyiaf m\ii rious effects. These and some others
’A<
nuTy he xal rotrtvf xjlxt/- of this sect so exercise their patience
xafneptav, rrjii re iv ri- in labours and trials, as to have at-
»»{, xa) rrjt b r*t< vmjM- tained the capability of standing in
nai(* £rr' ip f»o{ ryr,pa- one position unmoved for a whole
rof Satinjroy imiekinu rrjv day. There are others also who
jjjow
'fay 2X)j>. vAXXoi>
< 8* pretend to divination and inchant-
eltai nh( pie* payTixotf xal ments, and are skilful in the concerns
Sirfioif, xal run vepl rolf of the inhabitants and of their laws:
xaroi’
/fifilymp Uytm, xal w- they lead a mendicant life among the
pipuiy ipmlpavt, Ivamwvrai; villages and towns; but the better
xal xara xSpa;, xal icoXdf' class settle in the cities. They do
8 i x/xpuinipevs piv roil- not reject such of the mythological
ru» xal iurreunipwf. Oi8 ’ stories concerning Hades as appear
airmn !8^ Smeyfipitwt ray to them favourable to virtue and
saS" 5t’
8ou’f‘ StpMjivpevuy, piety. Women are suffered to phi-
«/ra 8 »xe~ vphf e£tre/3ciay xal loBophise' with some of these sects,
w
noTijTa. Ivpjtyihartxpc'iy 8’ though they are required to abstain
ivtaif x a l yvyaixa(, Smew from venery.— Strabo, lib. v. 712.
piyat x a l avrat Suppoii-
a-luv.
f f&tjy A l.
lized by Google
ijn/uonats A l.
m e g a s t h e n e s . tz v
OF THE INDIAN SUICIDES.
Meya<rdcv>i{ 8’ tv fitv toIj Megasthenes in his account of the
ctm. tlvau H ypo. Philosophers says, There is no pre-
< v iavT&s i££yuv‘ t<&( scribed rule for putting an end to
Si iroiovrraf touto vtavixcvf themselves; but that those who do
xpiW&ai, Tot{ imv m X r i f t it are esteemed rash. The hardy by
rJ <pj<rti tpffo/xtvovf h i wAtj- nature' cast themselves upon the
yhv ti Kfri/u/ov, tc I ( S’ d x i - sword or from a precipice, those
votif h i (3lAlv, -role S i : who areincapable of labour into the
xivovt d xa yxfin ivo vf, rotj Si sea, those who are patient o f hard-
rvp&tif tl( xvp' ubSv/Xtvtvf ships are strangled, while those o f a
v» xai i '
■
ktiXauKi'i"ini- fiery fcmperaihent are thrust into the
)a<rpci Hvbfkvtop, Mal~raf<; first Vrhieh last indeed was the fate
'A X e ( tlv S p tv T^omt^aif StSw- of Calamis an intemperate man, and
XupUvtf. addicted to the pleasures of the table,
at the court o f Alexander.— Str* lib.
Xv. p. 718.
OF TH E PHILOSOPHERS:
FROM CLITARCHUS.
'OS
t KXthapypf tfn]eri, <
-
fM ritpoif* 8« t o ~< B p a yjxa tn v
dvriS ia ip o vvra i Ilp d /tv a ; tpiir-
Tivtovf t n a t, xai tX ty x r ita iS f’
to v ( S i Bp a yjiu iva f rfniaioXo-
y la v x a l d n p o n fu a v davaTv,
Ac c o r d in g to the relation of Clitar-
chus, they place in opposition to the
Brahmanes, the Pramnae a conten
tious and argumentative set of men
who deride the Brahmanes as arro
gant and ridiculous on account of
• f i \ o r t f t u i AI.
Digitized by Google
230 IN D IA N FRAGM ENTS.
y tK u fti:in ' button i f d\a- their studies in physiology and as-
tyvaf* *ai doyTovf. TairvySi tronomy. They are divided into the
Tovf jxi* ifxiHvf xaKtTadai, Mountaineer, the Naked, the Citizen,
ro vf i f y v /x ty r a f, t o if it n o - and Rural sects.
XiT(K0
K xal npofrxoipjovf.
OF THE INDIAN ASTRONOMY:
FROM THE PASCHAL CHRONICLE.
’EN TO* xpomif Trjf nvpyo- About the tine of the construction
noitaf, in to v ytrovf to v ’Ap- of the Tower, a certain Indian of the
tpa(iS, avrip t i ( ’Iv8* ivt- race of Arphaxad nade his appear-
<pdn\ trofpof, &<rrpov4ucf, mi- ance, a wise nan, and an astrono-
/xaTi 'Aniovfidpiof, * xal aw - ner, whose nane was Andubarius ;
typdipaTo npvrof 'lotoTf ’Air* and it was he that first instructed
Tporoftian. the Indians in the science of Astro-
nony.—p. 36.
• iXafjwuf Vulg.
Digitized by Google
ATLANTIC AND PANCILEAN
FRAGMENTS:
FROM
MARCELLUS AND EUEMERUS.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
OF THE ATLANTIC ISLAND:
FROM MARCELLUS.
OTI fiiy i y b t r o roiadryp r i f
yrpG; x a i rrfkiyjxdrr], IrfKcZrl
ru * { r Or IrroptZ yruy r a Xtp]
rij< ZraXdzTTjf. Eivai
yip « u iy roTf a ir u y
pity I t r i rrjcov; iy ixtlyqp T(f
r i K i y t t IIepo-f^wnjf«pi(, t piTf
l i a W a f &1 M ro v (, rrjv pxiv
IIXai'TSw;, Tip i< ’AytpiZyof,
fUmqy l i roirtay oiX ipy Iloo’ei-
la yo f, yp Jiu y a r a lla y r i p U y t-
$o<. KaJ Tot<o lx n y r a t iy airrrj
/oij/ttp r a y Tpoyiyay licu ri^eiy
rip) t?|{ ’ATXimio? ovt«{ y<-
yopunff ix iT yrj<rov T a p ip u y a -
d ir r e ir iK , rp> M loXXif *t-
piAovp h jy d u rr tw a t T&truy
r a y iy ’h r ’
K a y r n y r t k i y u
rljru y. T a v r a puy A y i
MipwXXof iy roT( AfotornuTf
yiyp cu fny.
T h a t such and so great an island
formerly existed is recorded by some
of the historians who have treated
of the concerns of the outward sea.
For they say that in their times there
were seven islands situated in that
sea which were sacred to Persephone,
and three others of an immense mag
nitude one of which was consecrated
to Pluto, another to Ammon, and
that which was situated between
them to Poseidon; the size of this
last was no less than a thousand sta
dia. The inhabitants of this island
preserved a tradition handed down
from their ancestors concerning the
existence of the Atlantic island of a
prodigious magnitude, which had
really existed in those seas; and
which, during a long period of time,
governed all the islands in the At
lantic ocean. Such is the relation of
Marcellus in his Ethiopian history.—
Proc. in Tim.
II H
Digitized by Google
PANCHvEAN FRAGMENTS:
FROM EUEMERUS.
ETHMKP02 f t t t c v v t cju A ot
yeywdf K aavi^fnv fiart-
Aeaf, xai 8ia- Touroyrjyaynatn-
punt TeXfiy fiacriXtudf r&af
XP*‘a t *** l*eyd\af A«oS)j-
juia;, tprjah, exT®iri!T&rjyai
Kara rrfl pucnilA.fipica eif tw
’Oxcaray. e
IK
7rA
€U
cra.vT'x xai
aOroy ix E£8a//«vo{ 'Apa-
filat, mycracrSltu rail wXoSy
Si’ 'Qtuavov vXelevt ypupat,
xai npotrevexSlyyai vrjtroif m~
Kaylaic,' * an pda* {mepeyfiv ‘f
rvpt mcpca^cpt.tV7iv ndcyxatav'
h y reSteacr&cu rmif £wixoCv-
ra t ITayyjxlovf eitrefielcp Sia-
cpepovraf Hal rolf Sreobf n -
fAuvraf ptcyai.o'itpeTierrdraif
Svtrlaif, xai avaSypiacra
aljnXoyotf dpyvpoif re xai
XpvcroTf. Eivai St ryv njtrov
tepdv Steay, xai erepa nXela
E u e me r t js (the historian) was a
favourite of Cassander the king, and
being upon that account -constrained
by his master to undertake some
useful as well as extensive voyage
of discovery he says, That he tra
velled southwards to the Ocean, and
having sailed from Arabia Felix stood
out to sea several days, and continued
his course among the islands of
that sea; one of which far exceeded
the rest in magnitude, and this was
called Panchaea. He observes that
the Panchaeans who inhabited it
were singular for their piety, honor
ing the Gods with magnificent sacri
fices and superb offerings of silver
and gold. He says moreover that the
island was consecrated to the Gods,
and mentions several other remark
able circumstances relative to its an
tiquity and the richness of the arts
» iiicApytmi. f rrXaytats St.—Qy. transversely among the islands.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
EU EM ERU S. 235
^avftaiCfifjjera mardt i t t)jy
a fX a iim iT a mat r r ;y Tijj x a -
T a a tu w jf vrihnexp'uui. xept
w r a t manat ftepo<i in tc u ( %fa
T ovnji; pi£ O w ( a ra yeyp cu p a -
fM». Eimu S’ &
• a u n rj t u n a
Tout Xo^wv vifaXqy xa£f irtep-
£oXyx if/jiy Amj TpmfmiXalav,
m a & t& p vfU n r im ‘ a v r t u m oat'
Jo xaipar i f i c u r t k w t -nj(
titu iu p o H K d v a a t i f , e n t u n a
arOpSmvf Sir. ’Ex t out y ry
S tp f anqhjr etrai XPu<rV ‘,> Sr
j to?{ Ilaiyxoiij y p d p ip u ia iy
i x d p x t t r y t y p a f i f t t r a t r a t r e
O u p a r m m a t Kjnxw xai Aio{
r p d Z tH m t< p a X a n £ v (.
Mcrct r a v r a <p7j<r't x p S ro r
0vparar fiatriX ea yeya rtra u ,
in e n c q n v a arSpa mat tie p y t-
rrp , mat r ijf r S r ourrpur turrj-
r a ; ix u rrrjfM ra ' or mat a p a
r tr O varian nuri<rai rd>( oii-
parlovf &» ?(’ 8
1
0mat O iparor
xpta-aytpevfftjrat. Tlavf S’
a i r y yeretr6ai a r t yvratm a;
'E a r ta ( , t ia r a mat K p trtr’
S v y a r e p a t Si, 'Peax mat Ai}-
ftijTpa r. Kporor So flaa-iKeZ-
a a t jte r 0ip a r tr, mail y rjp ta ra
'fe a r yerrtjcrat A la mat "H par
mat IIo<7fiS£va. Toy So A la
StaSofa^oxov Try fia a iX ela r
tow K/mmii, yrifta i *Hpar mat
Afipurprpau mat B tp u r ' l£ Sr
icuSaf xoiipravSai, Koiiji»)Ta{
displayed in its institutions and ser
vices : some of which we have in part
detailed in the hooks preceding this.
He relates also that upon the brow
of a certain very high mountain in it
there was a temple of theTriphylaean
Zeus, founded by him at the time he
ruled over all the habitable world
whilst he was yet resident amongst
men. In this temple stood a golden
column on which was inscribed in the
Panchsean characters a regular his
tory of the actions of Ouranus and
Cronus and Zeus.
In a subsequent part of his work
he relates that the first king was
Ouranus, a man renowned for jus
tice and benevolence, and well con
versant with the motions of the stars :
and that he was the first who honor
ed the Heavenly Gods with sacrifices
upon which account he was called
Ouranus (Heaven). He had two sons
by his wife Hestia who were called
Pan and Cronus ; and daughters Rhea
and Demetra. And Cronus reigned
after Ouranus; and he married Rhea,
and had by her Zeus, and Hera, and
Poseidon. And when Zeus succeed
ed to the kingdom of Cronus he
married Hera, and Demetra, and
Themis, by whom he had children ;
by the first the Curetes ; Persephone
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
2 36 PANCHjEAN f r a g m e n t s .
piv avb t t h vpaiiK, litpat- by the second; and Athena by the
ipbir/jy Sc i* Trj( Sfvrtpat, third. He went to Babylon where
’Astray Sc a-rrb rns he was hospitably received by Belus ;
’
Ekibyra Sc cl{ Ba^vkSya, and afterwards passed over to the
litiieyudyjyai BijX.fi-xai /xcra island of Panchaea which lies in the
rauTa ei<tijv ndyxauxv yrjo-ov Ocean, where he erected an altar to
rpos 'Oxca»fi xei^cwjn vapa- Ouranus his forefather. From thence
yfybptyov, Oipayov tov lilov he went into Syria to Cassius who
itpm&
Topoi; fSvpA
oy llpvaaaSat. was then the ruler of that country,
K<pxet6ty Sia 2vpi*s IkBcTy from whom Mount Cassius receives
irpbf rby totc Suvaimjv Kda- its name. Passing thence into Cilicia
' tf’iov* oI xal to Kdo-irioy he conquered Cilix the governor of
opo(. 'EAflon-a Sc(Is Kikixiay those parts ; and having travelled
iroXcftfi vixijtrai K/Xixa to- through many other nations he was
*“
<i'k k a Sc %kei<rra honored by all and universally ac-
cfinj irnkSoyra, nap' avatri knowledged as a God.—Diod. Sic.
tijcija-Brjyai, xai &
cov ava- Eel. 681. cited by Euseb. Ercep.
yopovQyjyai. Evan. II.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
THE
CHALDEAN ORACLES OF
ZOROASTER.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by G o o g l e
THE CHALDEAN ORACLES OF
ZOROASTER.
CAUSE
GOD, FATHER, MIND, FIRE MONAD, DUAD, TRIAD.*
I.*J* 'O 8e areo'c i m xe<pa\rjy UpanOf' oLrof Iotis i npSrof,
dtpOaprof, dthiof, dytri)ro(, dptoprif, dyopuiorartf, yyloyfif Harris
XaXoE, dlupoloxrjTOf, dyaBSy dya.6uTa.TOf, tppovlpwy (ppoupu-
TaTOf. eari 8? xai sraTtjp tvyoataf xai inccuoatlnjf, atrohtlaxrof,
tfnxnxlf, xai TcXciOf, xai aorpof, xai IffoC <pvaixoC [Mycf eiptrrjf.
But God is he that has the head of a hawk. He is the first,
indestructible, eternal, unbegotten, indivisible, dissimilar; the
dispenser of all good; incorruptible; the best of the good, the
wisest of the wise : he is the father of equity and justice, self-
taught, physical, and-perfect, and wise, and the only inventor of
the sacred philosophy.—Euseb. Prcejp. Evan. lib. I. c. 10.
* Mr. Taylor in his collection of the oracles (Class. Journ. No. 23.) has
arranged them under the following heads. I. The oracles which he conjectures
may be ascribed to Zoroaster himself. This division includes the collection of
Psellus, and in this collection are marked Z. as in the 8th. II. Oraclea
delivered by Theurgists under the reign of Marcus Antoninus. These relate to
the Intelligible and Intellectual orders : and are here distinguished by a T as in
the 4th. III. Oracles delivered either by the Theurgists or by Zoroaster, here
marked Z or T. as in the 2nd. The rest he has placed together as uncertain or
imperfect in their meaning ; to which he has subjoined a few from the Treatise
of Lydus de Mensibus. We are also indebted to Mr. Taylor for the references to
the authors from whom the collection was originally made, and tor the addition
of several oracles hitherto unnoticed : the latter are distinguished by the letters
T ay. after the reference, as in the 2nd oracle.
f Eusebius attributes this to the Persian Zoroaster. I have added it to
the collection.
240 TH E CllALDiEAN ORACLES
I I . * 07 y e O to v p y o t r ly a t (p en n y, x a i *[XV0V<T1 T tpurfivTtpov
x a i n & rfp m . ««i xvxXotXixToy Toy &«'y xai aiwnov1 xai yoovyra
tI v avp-TSa m a rSv tv t $ xoV a^ xivevptvuv dr.dvTxv dpiO
pov
x a i T f5 { to E to ij d n tp a v T o v r i,y Sw ap.iv x a i ^X
ixociSi) <pa<n
f«Ta T
O
V
T
W
y.
Theurgists assert that he f is a God, and celebrate him as
both older and younger, as a circulating and eternal God, as un
derstanding the whole number of all things moved in the world,
and moreover infinite through his power and of a spiral form.
Z or T. Proc. in Tim. 244.— Tay.
III. ©toy lyxiapuv, alvviov, dxepavt o v .
Ntoy, xai vpiafirlTtiy, IkixotiSij.
The mundane god, eternal, boundless,
Young and old, of a spiral form.
IV. T!){ ydp avfxXtiVroK £w
>){ xai Trjf dTpvrov Swap.ew(, xai
Trjf ao'xyov, xaTa to Xoyioy, ivtpytlaf o Aiwy (aiTia).
For Eternity, J according to the oracle, is the cause of never-
failing life, of unwearied power, and unsluggish energy.
T. Tay.
V. Z iy d p tv e f xaXeiTai into r a y S ltS y, ovtoj o axXiToj &<o;, xai
t$> y£ a w x S tiv XryrTai xai xaTa yovy uovov viro Twy 4/vX ^'y
y w ljjwfal.
Hence this stable God is called by the gods silent, and is said
to consent with mind, and to be known by souls through mind
alone. T. Proc. in Theol. 321.— Tay.
V I. O f X a X S a io i Toy &<oy (A io'yvaov) ’la w X eyovm y, (e fy ri t o v ,
<pS( pyoijroy) T7j $oiyi'xwy yXda'a-y, x a i 2 a /3 a w fl ? t oroXXajjov
* Lobeck seems to be of opinion that neither this nor the one next follow
ing hare any claim to be inserted.
•f yjg6ms Time Tay.—Qy. K p<m . The latter Platonists continually sub
stitute XpAos for K ((m i .
1 The Gnostics used the word Avon itself for their different celestial orders.
See also Sanchoniatho, p. 4.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 241
X e y e r a i, ofov o Sirep rovf (v t a itor.ovp, TOvrfVnv a irj-
jwio!ipyof.
The Chaldaeans call the God (Dionysus or Bacchus) Iao in
the Phoenician tongue (instead of the intelligible light), and he is
often called Sabaoth, signifying that he is above the seven poles,
that is the Demiurgus. Lyd. de Mens. 83.—Tay.
VII. riavTa y a p a v y e y u y t j ia v r o v jjtlt/i r y i {nrap[co>( axponjTi,
K a r a t o V oytov, a ir o p n a p e fo i i i t d p y f i .
Containing all things in the one summit of his own hyparxis,
he himself subsists wholly beyond.
T. Proc. in Theol. 212.— Tay.
VIII. Ta ita v r a pteTpovv n a ) d tp lp fy v , Tot h o y id tpr/tri.
Measuring and bounding all things.
T. Proc. in PL Th. 386.— Tay.
IX. OS yap d iT O v a T p n rji; d p x w aTc'K et ti T p o y a iy i.
For nothing imperfect circulates from a paternal principle.
Z. Psell. 38.—Piet.
X . n<*Trjpo£ tpofiov evBpwtntct, itflBu S’ tiuyjei.
The father hurled not forth fear but infused persuasion.
Z. Piet.
X I...............................‘E a v T o v o v a r r i p r jp v a ir e v
OSS’ h (7} iw a p te i voepfi xXdirat; iSiw irSp.
. . . . The Father has hastily withdrawn himself;
But has not shut up his own fire in his intellectual power.
Z. Psell. 30.—Piet. 33.
X II. Toiouto{ y a p o Itu T ro vp npo lte p y !a ( Ivepyuv, o n
MtjSe Ttpoijx^ey, a \ \ ’ euevey Iv t 5 tcaTpinS j3vri$,*
• Bo&£ Fr- Pat.
1 I
tized by C j O O ^ I c
242 THK C H A LD EA N ORACLES
Kat l» t £ iS vrp p , K a ra Trjv ^eoOplfi[M va triyyy.
Such is the Mind which is there energizing before energy.
That it has not gone forth but abode in the paternal depth,
And in the adytum according to divinely-nourished silence.
T. Proc. in Tim. 167.
XIII. Elar v a t r a m p o f M ( iK y e y a Z r a .
tld y r a y a p l£ e re \e ire etarrip, xai vp napeSuxe
Cseirrepcp, o*etpuroy aXijflJfTai e&yea "J" a»8
pay.
All things are the progeny of one fire.
The Father perfected all things, and delivered them over
To the second Mind, whom all nations of men call the first.
Z. Psell. 24.—Piet. 30.
XIV. Kai to o you, of to y IpLinSpim M trpuy a y e i.
And of the Mind which conducts the empyrean world.
T. Dam. de Prin.
X V. ‘A »oE{ \ e y f t , t & vocir itov X tyet.
What the Mind says, it says by understanding.
Z. Psell. 35.
X V I. ‘H utv yap S ilv a p < n y ixe!yoi(, yovf S’ a n ’ Ixelyov.
Power is with them, but Mind is from him.
T. Proc. in Plat. Th. 365.
X V II. Noo{ aarpof ip a ie if entrxpxIpuyof tSvyrrjptrty
’Axva^CTroi/ GUTTpdLnTOViTiv dueiXiKTOO izvpof oXkoi'(.
The Mind of the Father riding on attenuated rulers
Which glitter with the furrows of inflexible and implacable Fire.
T. Proc. in Crat.—Tay.
X V III...................................Merit Se ra r p ix a f Siavotaf
f Pletho has *•«» y<»t: he omits the first line, which Taylor also gives by
itself in another place.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 243
l y u y a w , ipvxcutra r a ’
K a r r a ,
...............KaTf’^rro y a p
NoEy p i v e v l t p i f t y , 4 v X ily S’ «»< a c i p u n t i p y f ,
'HptSy ly x a T td r p u varrpp iySpiiy T€ &t£v T«.
.............After the paternal conception
I the Soul reside, a heat animating all things.
.............For he placed
Mind in Soul and Soul in dull Body,
The Father of Gods and Men so placed them in ours.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 124.
X IX . ^vyupiarqrat y a p ra <
p
v<
rix&(fya T? yteP
V<
P*YY(‘
ToE ■Karpb(m 'f'v x 'l 7“/>xotrpyaatT a t o fiA yay
O vpayov, xai xotrftsEcra pif t a toE •warpif.
K tp a r a * Si x a i a ir r jf ia-nypixTai a yu .
Natural works coexist with the intellectual light
Of the Father. For it is the Soul, which adorned the great
heaven
And which adorns it after the Father.
But her horns are established on high.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 106.
X X . 'O r . \ p v x v S v y a p ta •K a rp b f o l a a < p a tiyb y,
’A&ok£to{ Tf JU
CW
I, xow S itn m r if Itrt<‘
Kou 1V J yU
o
-p
u
ivxoXAa xAijpu/naTa xo'Xxav.
The Soul, being a bright fire, by the power of the father,
Remains immortal, and is mistress of life,
And fills up many of the recesses of the world.
Z. Psell. 28.—Piet. 11.
X X I. M l y n f x t y u y 8’ o^tTwv, «tip b f c u f A l r o v r p y a TeAoEtra.
The channels being intermixed, she performs the works of in
corruptible fire.
Z. or T. Proc. in PI. Polit. 399.
* Lob. proposes xparot.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
244 TH E CH ALDA;AN ORACLES
X X II. Oi yap el( Skrjy, itvp littvttiva t o itpurov
*E>7» tijyaixiv xaT axX t/ci (pyot(, akka jo y .
NoS ya p yoZ( I t t 'iv o xoVjiiov T ty y h r if orvptiv.
For the Fire which is first beyond did not shut up his power
In matter by works but by mind:
For the framer of the fiery world is the Mind of Mind.
T. Proc. in Theol. 333.—in Tim. 157.
X X III. * 0 { i%m ex&op t 7rpS>T0(
*Ecr<ra/xtt'0( irvpi m p , aw tetr/A u v* otppa Kepaayi
T b iya ta vf apaTrjpas, iov vvp'oi; a v S oj litla x m .
Who first sprung from Mind
Clothing fire with fire, binding them together that he might mingle
The fountainous craters, while he preserved the flower of his
own fire.
T. Proc. in Farm.
%
X X IV . “EvSty m pifAevof apr]<rrrip apt.vtpoTo irvpof avdof,
Kotr/AUV Iv&pwtnioiv K oikuptaai. IIa r r e t y a p ev&tv
“Apyprat ( \ ( t o xctT oi rrfv e iv arrival a y i j T a f .
Thence a fiery whirlwind drawing the flower of glowing fire,
Flashing into the cavities of the worlds; for all things fromthence
Begin to extend downwards their admirable rays.
T. Proc. in Theol. Plat. 171. 172.
X XV . j *H ptoyaf 4m T orpuTUf, o m v aarptKri fio ra f I n ! .
The Monad is there first where the paternal Monad subsists.
T. Proc. in Euc. 27.
• <nj9$iff/juov Tay.
f Oion o/ IluSay^i/o/, 8
<a fxo-
>a8os, xa) S
u
d
tS
of, xa) T^tiZog, rj
&UkiiTOJV 8
<
a toC T
rip
^
T
O
f, xa)
to5 an/fou, xa) too fxixt&
», ^
icpiTtpin yo 8ia to5 Ms xa)
TOD» TTO kkuw xot) TOU tjMOfttVOO,
toDto o/ ■^prjfffxoi ru>» Siaiy $/a
ri}s oirap^iojg xa) lonafxiwg xa)
xa) intpytfag.
What the Pythagoreans signifyby Monad,
Duad, and Triad—or Plato by Bound, Infi
nite, or Mixed; or we in the former part of
this work, by The One, The Many, and The
United; that the oracles of the Gods intend
by Hyparxis, Power, and Energy.—D am . de
P rin .—T ay.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 245
XXVI. T a ya rj i a T ( p to n d f...................$
] Wo y e n $ .
The Monad is extended which generates two.
T. Proc. in Euc. 27.
XXVII. Atia ( yap itapa T^Se xadrjrai, (xai yoepatf atrrpairret ro/Jta'if)*
K ai to xtSep^Tv t o ira v ra , xa< tocttciv oxaoTov (o i la .yp ly.')
For the Duad sits by this, and glitters with intellectual sections,
To govern all things, and to order each.
T. Proc. in Plat. 376.
XXVIII. E/{ tp la y a p yovf liire ita r p o f re/xye/rd a t a ir a y r a ,
01 t o SeAay n a T tK tv e , x a i 5j8ij itdrea freTjoHjTo.
The Mind of the Father said that all things should be cut into
three:
His will assented, and immediately all things were cut.
T. Prog, in Parm.
XXIX. E lf t pla y a p elite »oii$ v a rp o f alBlov,
N£ n a n a xvfSepyuy.
The Mind of the eternal Father said into three,
Governing all things by Mind.
T. Proc. in Tim.
XXX. T rjf 8e y a p l x ip id io f itd v ityev/xa ita iy p Ixepacre.
The Father mingled every Spirit from this Triad.
Lyd. de Men. 20.— Tay.
XXXI. T rjf Be y a p ex rpidB of xl>.itot<riy hcdp%e&‘ d ita ir ta .
All things are governed in the bosoms of this triad.
Lyd. de Men. 20.— Tay.
• The oracle stands in the text as given by Fr. Patricius, Standley and
Taylor. Lobeck shows that the passages in parenthesis do not properly belong
to it. oil TttySir should also be oi raySiy as connected with the succeeding sen
tence in Proclus.
Digitized by L x O O Q l e
246 TH E CHALD& AN ORACLES
X X X II. M y r a y a p in rp ta t r o tf 8e w fie p y a r a ! r e x a i i m .
All things are governed and subsist in these three.
T. Proc. in I. Alcib.
X X X III. 'A pxpuy y a p rptar) t aX( 8f Xa/3oi< hovXiveiv a n a n r a .
For you may conceive that all things serve these three principles.
T. Dam. de Prin.
X X X IV . ’Etc* t £y$( pie i rp iiS o f Septaf itpi rrjf ov<ry(,
0 £ itpdryt;, a X X ' tv t i t p e r p e tr a t.
From these flows the body of the Triad, being pre-existent,
Not the first, but that by which things are measured.
Z. or T. A/ion.
XXXV. Kai itp iyya a y in a ir y y r Apery, xai y g-otpla.
Kai y m hltppuy arpexeia.
And there appeared in it virtue, and wisdom,
And multiscient truth.
Z. or T. Anon.
X X X V I. Ilarx} y i p iy ytirpup Aaptitet r p ta f, y { /xoxa; a/>x«i.
For in the whole world shineth aTriad, over which a Monad rules.
T. Dam. in Parm.
X X X V II.......................J 'Iepef v p v r o f Spopuf, in 8’ a p a fair®
'Hepiot;, r p lr ty a X k c f, %
< ev itvp't r y y p filv a SA'M cei.
The first is the sacred course........but in the middle
Air, the third the other which cherisheth the earth in fire.
Z. or T. Anon.
X X X V III. ‘ApSyy iptipv^ovtra tpaOf, itvp, ai& epa, vitrpm jy.
Abundantly animating light, fire, ether, worlds.
Z. or T. Simp, in Phys. 143.
• Tay— Ti Fr. Pat.
| Jones proposes yeAtm. Hippocrates uses the same expression of Ipi/tic
yAhu.
Digitized by Google
OF ZOROASTER. 247
ID E A S *
INTELLIGIBLES, INTELLECTUALS, IYNGES, SYNOCHES, TELE-
TARCHjE, FOUNTAINS, PRINCIPLES, HECATE
AND DAEMONS.
X X X IX . NotJ$ itoLTpoq ifpolZfltrf, yoijtraq aK/xafo /3ov\y
IIaufxofxpcv^ itijyrjs 5* onto fxiaq d x o irv d a a i
*Ejc&o/>ov. xarpoO ev y a p ty * (2ov\rj tc TfXo'f tc
(A i * uv <rvyditr€Taj t £ ita rp )9 aXXrjy xaT* aXXrjy
ZonjVf onto [Atpi^ofAcvcoy ^xerSJy.) +
*AXX' €[A'Cpi/<r£rv]<raVf votpp ttvp) fMipn&cicrat
EIf aXXat; vo(pd$‘ %
o<T[x<p y a p a>a£ TtoXvuopfpip
Tlpo\j&vjK€v ncxpov Ttmo* cupSiTOVt ot x a r d KOO'/XO*
vI%vo{ CT(iyofA€VO{ fxopfpqq xoS* a J xoVfco$ itpavSi),
T lavroiaiq \ticuiq xe%api<r/xcvo^, w
v u.la itrjyyj,
’Ej rj$ po ityvrra i fxffjuptafxeyai aXXa*, dxXijTOt,
'P yfpivfxevai xoVjUio %fp) a&fxaaiVy a t ittpi noXttovf
JZfXtf&aXtovSj a-fxriyca-aiv ioncviac9 (popeovrai,
T p a ir o v n x€p r apup) itapaarx& oy aXXv&if aXXij,
vEwo<ai yocpal wipy?* xarp ixrjq d * o f iroXt
Aparropuymi xvpof avdof dKO
ifxvjrovxpovovt; axfxrj,
*Ap%€yoyovq H ia q itpcorv) x a r p lq tfiX v r e ra $ 5c
A&totcXijf nrjyy.
T h e M ind o f the F ath er m ade a ja rrin g noise, understanding by
unw earied counsel
• The whole ofthe following division is a system grafted upon the Platonic
doctrine of Ideas. It is composed of six different orders, called Triads, or each
consisting of three Triads, which have different names in the respective theolo
gies of the Modern Platonists, and of those who assumed the title of Chaldseans.
Both regarded the first Cause as the One and the Good ; from whom proceeded
in succession the three first orders which were all Ineffable and Superessential.
f Taylor omits these two lines, which Fr. Pat. and Stan insert.
X /wit« Tay.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
248 THE CHALDXAN ORACLES
O m niform id e a s: which flying ou t from one fountain
T hey sprung fo rth : for from the F a th er was the will and the
e n d ;
(B y w hich they are connected w ith the F a th er
A ccording to alternate life from several vehicles,)
B u t they w ere divided, being by intellectual fire d istributed
In to o th er Intellectuals : F o r th e king previously placed before
the m ultiform w orld
A n intellectual, incorruptible p attern , the p rin t o f w hose form
Is prom oted th ro u g h th e w orld, according to w hich things the
w orld appeared
B eautified w ith all-various Id eas ; o f w hich th ere is one fountain,
F rom this the others ru sh forth distributed,
A nd separated about the bodies o f the w orld, and are borne
T h ro u g h its v ast recesses like sw arm s
T u rn in g them selves on all sides in every direction,
T h ey are Intellectual conceptions from the paternal fountain,
P artak in g abundantly the flow er o f F ire in the point o f restless
tim e,
B u t the p rim ary self-perfect fountain o f th e F ath er
P o u red forth these prim ogenial ideas.
Z . o r T . P roc. in F arm .
XL. IloXXai p e n S
r
)aTSc Irreju/SaiVova-i ( p a f m T i
Koa/Mi; puotevo-au’ xai Iv al( axfoTrjTC} eairi
T p ei( ,
T h ese being m any ascend flashingly into the shining w orlds
A nd in them are contained three sum m its.
T . D am . in Parrn.
XLI. ...............Qpovpoi t u v epyuv cla) rov varpoq
Kflti TOV VOV TOV U07]TOV.
T h ey are the guardians o f the w orks o f the F ath er
A n d o f the one M ind, the Intelligible.
T . Proc. in T h. P la t. 205.
OF ZOROASTER. 249
XLII.* riavra yap i m ouov In xoV/xcu rSiyf yoijTai.
All things subsist together in the Intelligible world.
T. Dam. de Prin.— Tay.
X L III. T w 8f vof~ ita ( vcvf d e w , ou y a p a y f v noof Itr r i w |T « i,
K a i t o v o ijtw oC vov x v t'l t \n ta p y fi.
But all Intellect understands the deity, for Intellect is not without
the Intelligible,
And the Intelligible does not subsist apart from Intellect.
Z. or T. Dam.
XLIV. Oi y a p avev yoof e V x l v o ij t o E ' ov x u P‘< ittd p x e i.
For Intellect is not without the Intelligible : it does not subsist
apart from it.
Z. or T. Proc. Th. Plat. 172.
XLV. NS fJ-in nate^fi t a vturpra, 4* I r t i y t t xl<rpui(.
By Intellect he contains the Intelligibles, but introduces the Soul
into the worlds.
XLVT. N p pciy x a r e x * ‘ T“ r o yra , a ta iijT iy 8’ i n a y u xla-puuf.
By Intellect he containsthe Intelligibles, but introduces Sense into
the worlds. T. Proc. in Crat.
X L V II. Ze/a/SoAa y a p vaTpiKO( yoof etm eipe x a r a xoV/uw,
dO $ r a vovjt oc voeTf y a I cuppaaTa xaXXifiTa*.
For the paternal Intellect, which understands Intelligibles,
And adorns things ineffable,has sowed symbols through the world.
T. Proc. in Crat.
L V IH . ’A pxri n<i<rri( t ptyceus i)8c tj T a f i ; .
This order is the beginning of all section.
T. Dam. de Prin.
• I. The first Order is the In tellig ib le T ria d of the Platonists, but Psellus
says it was venerated among the Chaldseans as a certain P a tern a l P ro fundity,
containing three triads, each consisting of Father, Power and Intellect.
K K
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
2 5 0 T H E CH ALD .SAN ORACLES
X L IX . *H yoyjTrj r d tr y ; r /x y r e v f dp% fi. *
The Intelligible is the principle of all section.
T. Dam. de Prin.
L . T pOtpTi i f TX' vooom TO »oijto'v.
The Intelligible is food to that which understands.
T. Dam. de Prin.
L I. T « k ly ia step) Tuy r a iia y apb to E 0 vpayov a ; cuf& eyxro»
lyfieflparo, xal n p o r t^ x e
S l y t x el f s n r r d .
The oracles concerning the orders exhibits it prior to Heaven as
ineffable, and add—
It has mystic silence. T. Proc. in Crat.— Tay.
L II. 8 i a f t o ; voijTa; c u r ia s to koyiov x a k ti, x a l xpcw vtras d u o
to o varp'os H etty ire' a ir ly .
The oracle calls the Intelligible causes Swift, and asserts that
proceeding from the Father, they run to him.
T. Proc. in Crat.— Tay.
L III. ~j* T d y.tv c irri rocpd x a l ym /rd , o r a yoovrra voctrat.
Those natures are both Intellectual and Intelligible, which, them
selves possessing intellection, are the objects of intelligence to
others. T. Proc. Th. Plat. 179.
LIV . Noci/jacKM io y y f? isarplH ey y o h v n x a i a i r a t'
BouXa?{ d tp H eyxra tri xunv/seyat w a re y m jra t.
The intelligible Iynges themselves understand from the Father;
By ineffable counsels being moved so as to understand.
Z. Psell. 41.—Piet. 31.
• clytt Fr. Patr.
f II. The second order of the Platonists was the Intelligible a nd a t the same
tim e Intellectu a l T ria d . Among the Chaldocans it consisted of the Iynges,
Syonches and Teletarchfc.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 251
LV. “O r i ip y a T i(, o t i enSorif (<rri m p o f IJaij<popm.
" O ri x a i to ^iL tyoyn aXtipci T>j{ 'E xaTi){ xo'Xiroy.
Kal ezifipu Ta~( ^vvoyju'T iy aXxrjy Qqbvpoy m ipof
M e y a S vyapurtio.
Because it is the operator, because it is the giver of life-bearing
fire.
Because it fills the life-producing bosom of Hecate.
And it instils into the Synoches the enlivening strength of Fire
Endued with mighty power.
T. Proc. in Tim. 128.
LV I. *bpovpt7y aZ r
zprlaTrjp<Tiv io if aK porr/Taf eBmtty.
’
Eyxepatraf aXxij?"Sioy /*cvo; (» IvyvppfZaiy.
He gave to his own whirlwinds to guard the summits,
Mingling the proper force of his own strength in the Synoches.
T. Dam. de Prin.
LVII. ’AXXa xou i\c u o iq %aa 8
ooX«/« 2uyo%<Iiri.
But likewise as many as serve the material Synoches.
T.
LVIII. OI Tc X fT a p ya i a vye lX ifin a i n t f X o w /fZ cri.
The Teletarchs are comprehended in the Synoches.
T. Dam. de Prin.
L 1X . TCI yotpuy puzndpay Tnpyri Te poy T f,
H d y r u v y a p zpcrrr) hw d[M i$ xoXxoiny a tp p a o rof;
A<fa/«y»9
, yeyeijy i n i aSty n p c ffe i Tfojjaowray.
Rhea the fountain and river of the blessed Intellectuals
Having first received the powers of all things in her ineffable
bosom
Pours forth perpetual generation upon every thing.
T. Proc. in Crat.— Tay.
f HI. The Intellectu a l T ria d of later Platonists corresponds with the
Fountains or F o n ta l F athers of the Chaldseans.
Digitized by Google
2 5 2 T H E CHALDEAN ORACLES
L X . *Ec7 T( y a p v ip a f rev •garpauZ fivBov* , xa< T tffT ] T o y votpoy.
For it is the bound of the paternal depth, and the fountain of the
Intellectuals.
T. Dam. de Prin.
L X I. . . . . “ E o -t i yap acAx^c
’Apupupaovf W na/M f, yofpaTf a z p d x T iv a a zo p u u m .
. . . . For he is a power
Of circumlucid strength, glittering with Intellectual sections.
T. Dam.
L X II. Norp a if a r r p d w z tt zo p ta if, tpuz<n S’dyriAifirr z d ztd y z a .
He glitters with Intellectual sections, but has filled all things
with love.
T. Dam.
LXIII. ToJr 8( zvp o f voepiv voepoTf trpniozyp&ty a tz a tn a
Elxaflr SovAeva rza , z a z p o f toSijviSi jSoi/Ajj’.
To the Intellectual whirlwinds of Intellectual fire all things
Are subservient, through the persuasive counsel of the Father.
T. Proc. in Parm.
LX1V. ’O itu ( e%ei tu r/xo f yo tp tl( dyaypjaf d y a p n ii^ .
Oh how the world has inflexible Intellectual rulers.
LX V . MrVov T oy v a z tp a y 'Exanjt "j" xtyrpoy tftnpuza*.
The centre of Hecate corresponds with that of the fathers.
T.
L X V I. ’E£ a v zo v y a p 7 td y r t;^ (y.6pontovat et/xtiXtxTot T( xtpavyoi,
Kai 'npTja~TrlpQ$o‘
XlOt xdAiroi itafM p(yyei>( aAx?j{
H aT p o yevo if 'Exanjs* xai intt^tnux; m p d f avBof
"H8t Kparaiov v y (v/xa a i\u v m p !o y rortxciva.
From him leap forth all implacable thunders,
• Bo2o3. Fr. P. f ixdffTijs. Fr. P. J Tay. omits if and trams.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 253
And the whirlwind receiving bosoms of the all-splendid strength
Of the Father-begotten Hecate; and he who begirds the flower
of fire
And the strong spirit of the poles, all fiery beyond.
T. Proc. in Crat.
LXV1I. Ilrjycuey aXXov, ef t o ipyxipua. xitrpuiv a y e i.
Another fontal, which leads the empyreal world.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim.
L X V III. Kau enyyi v tjy S y , x a i r e p a ( m y S y d r a a S y .
The fountain of fountains, and the boundary of all fountains.
T. Dam. de Prin.
LX1X. 'Tw o fiifc yiuy rj ^aoyoyof r tjy ij a e p ie x e ra i ip iy S y .
Under two minds the life-generating fountain of souls is com
prehended.
T. Dam. de Prin.
LX X . "TxmuiTou aircuf ap^iyfa avXSy*.
Beneath them lies the principal of the immaterials.
Z. or T. Dam. in Parm.
L X X I.' Ila r p e y e y e f < fxuf, loX ii y a p pUyot;, ex te a r f a d X xij(
Ap e ^ d p te n f yoov ayOof, qjei rip -J- yeely v a rp ix o y n v y
’Ey iiio ya i •nduraic, t n y a i f re so) d p ^ a T f,
* The last of the Intellectual Triad was the Demiurgus, from whom pro
ceeded the Efiable and Essential orders including all sorts of Daemons. They
are according to the respective systems—
OF THE PLATONISTS. OF THE CHALDEANS.
IV. The Supermundane. IV. The Principles.
V. The Liberated. V. TheAzonic.
VI. The Mundane. VI. The Zonic.
The Demiurgus was the fabricator of the world, and held the same relative posi
tion to the three succeeding essential orders as did the first cause to the three
preceding or superessential orders.
f Qy. t o .— I have so translated it.
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
2 5 4 THE CHALDEAN ORACLES
K a i t o voc<V> d e l T'e (liv e n iim c p trrjXxpdXiyyi.
Father-begotten light, for he alone having gathered from the
strength of the Father
The flower of mind has the power of understanding, the paternal
mind;
To instil into all fountains and principles the power
Of understanding, and of always remaining in a ceaseless revo
lution.
T. Proc. in Tim. 242.
LXXII............................ . Ild< ra( v r /y d f Tt xai dpx<*i
Aiyttv ad te (liven iotnip trrpoepaXiyyi.
All fountains and principles whirl round,
And always remain in a ceaseless revolution.
Z. or T. Proc. in Parm.
LXXI1I. * A ria rfo i e p ya ttrrp u a a t vm jrd
AlaflijToJis ep yo if, xai a u fia a n a/MpevaXinpev.
A ia m p B fiio i ea T U T ff (pavat rip n a r p ) xai SXj.
Kai ta ipupavy, (itfirijia-Ta t u v dtpavuv lpyaXfi(iev<tL.
K a t T* d ep a rt t l { Trjy (fitpayyj h o t (ivnnitav iyypaepevref.
The Principles, which have understood the Intelligible works of
the Father
He has clothed in sensible works and bodies,
Being the intermediate links standing to communicate between
the Father and Matter,
Rendering apparent the images of unapparent natures,
And inscribing the unapparent in the apparent frame of the
world.
Z. or T. Dam. de Prin.
LXXIV. “ O t i T a p ra p o v x a i t ! } { <rv£vyovtn)f t p O vpavp o T vtpdv,
" E s tiv a , i r iv d e t y , olcv XaX8aixij t i { t ptaq eepeptif ir jf a T a x -
r o v f icaarif Svipuovpylaf.
Typhon, Echidna, and Python, being the progeny of Tartarus
and Earth, which is conjoined with Heaven, form as it were a
Digitized by Google
OF ZOROASTER. 255
certain Chaldaic triad, which is the inspector of the whole dis
ordered fabrication.
T. Olymp in Phced.— Tay.
LXXV. ’A xa t£ » d e p lo y dp r/jiV T o n a v y u p h n a u n a i o! aikc/ytn
ic u fu v tf, £10 x>< t o Xoyto'x (prjTiy.
’H epltn (Xdrripa. nxnSv yfim lo y t t xxl typSy.
Irrational daemons derive their subsistence from the aerial rulers,
wherefore the oracle says,
Being the charioteer of the aerial, terrestrial, and aquatic dogs.
T. Olymp. in Phced.—Tay.
LX X V I. To I n S p i y , I x i f u y tS > S d u y , r y jy d x o p i r r l y I x u r r c u r l a y
M e l y c n r c u to o C S a to { . S»s xou to X u y io y vSfojSaTqfa; v .d X e t
rohf Sitol( TajTO
Vf.
The aquatic, when applied to divine natures, signifies a govern
ment inseparable from water, and hence the oracle calls the
aquatic gods water walkers.
T. Proc. in Tim. 270.— Tay.
l x x v ii. Sunt etiam daemones aquei quos Nereides vocat
Orpheus, in sublimioribus exhalationibus aquae,
quales sunt in hoc aere nubiloso, quorum corpora
videntur quandoque acutioribus oculis, presertim in
Perside et Africa ut existimat Zoroaster.
There are certain aquatic daemons whom Orpheus called Ne
reides in the more elevated exhalations of water such as appear
in this cloudy air, whose bodies are sometimes seen, as Zoroaster
thinks, by more acute eyes, especially in Persia and Africa.
T. Fic. de Im. Am. 123.— Tay.
Digitized by L.ooQle
256 T H E CHALDEAN ORACLES
PARTICULAR SOULS.
SOUL, LIFE, MAN.
LXXV11I. T a v r a aa rrip lyviijae, fipoxof 8' oi iypvxvTO .
These things the Father conceived, and the mortal was animated
for him. T. Proc. in Tim. 336.
L X X IX . KaTffifTO y d p vovv t-y ip u ^ y , Iv v u fju in 8c
'TpJau; fyxaT t'Sijxc ita r^ p an ip S y t« d c v y T f.
For the Father of gods and men placed the mind in soul.
But in body he placed you.
LX X X . Zi//x£oXa y a p ira T p n b f ylo( e m n p f TaT( \pv% ai{.
The paternal mind has sowed symbols in the souls.
Z. Psell. 26— Piet. 6.
L X X X I. irvxaToy tnriydrjpa 8u r! xpaurai ipw yoiatf
N}> x a l tt»ct//iaTi S d p , l i p ' oJ( T p tT o y d y y o y ip u r r a ,
2 k>8c tix w v d y r u y i-ni^rjcpa. CIU'.ly t~jrl<iy.
Having mingled the vital spark from two according substances,
Mind and Divine Spirit, as a third to these he added
Holy Love, the venerable charioteer uniting all things.
Lyd. de Men. 3.— Tay.
L X X X II. Ttjv \pvxV" d y a v K y ir a f tp v t i /9aBt~.
Filling the soul with profound love.
Z. or T. Proc. in PI. Theol. 4.
LX X X 1II. 't'vyri i uepoTTvy Seay a y ( c i v5>{ il( ia vryy.
O iSiv S h jt o v tx o v r a oXij Sco'Sey uepUSevaxat.
'Ap/M ylay a t y f l y a p , i<p' r[ T .e A e ir u u a fipixeioy.
The Soul of men will in a manner clasp God to herself.
Having nothing mortal she is wholly inebriated from God,
For she glories in the harmony under which the mortal body
exists. Z. Psell. 17.—Piet. 10.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 257
LXXXIV. A l ftfv ippu[M V(aT(pai \pu%
a't Si' ia v r S y S fu v T a i tod\y-$((,
x a l da -it (ip tT ix v T tp a i “ aor^opKvai Si' a ir ij f aAxr)<" <J{
(pvjai to Xoyioy.
The more powerful souls perceive truth through themselves, and
are of a more inventive nature. “ Such souls are saved through
their own strength,” according to the oracle.
T. Proc. in I. Ale.— Tay.
I.XXXV. To \o y toy t df Tpv%at; d v a y lp teya< Toy o raiaya otStiy.
The oracle says, ascending souls sing a paean.
Z. or T. Olym. in Phced.—Tay.
LXXXVI. t H fcaX a 8^ vu lva l y l fx a xd p T a T a i ta a e u v
'itv ^ d u v orori ya x a v a t ' oipavoBev tp o y fo irra i.
K ciyai 8’ ohtSial t i x a i o i yijfiaT’ ifto v a a i,
" O a a a i a t a i y f . i)<yT0{, a y a f , a l 9 ( v , ij8e x a i ozLToy
’E x Aio{ ffeyeyoxTO, Mi&ou * u f a t o f i t i t tzyayxi);.
Of all souls those certainly are superlatively blessed
Which are poured forth from heaven to earth ;
And they are happy, and have ineffable stamina,
As many as proceed from thy splendid self, O king,
Or from Jove himself, under the strong necessity of Mithus.
Z. or T. Synes de Insom. 153.
LX X X V II. B iJ oti aSS/xa Xttovroiv xa B a p a T a T a t.
The souls of those who quit the body violently are most pure.
Z. Psel. 27.
L X X X V III. "irvxV ( lia a -n jp o f d va tvo o i, (Z'Kvroi d a l.
The ungirders of the soul, which give her breathing, are easy to
be loosed.
Z. Psel. 32__Piet. 8.
LX X X IX . K p y y a p njv8« ipyX*!* i8rj« a t o x a T a o T a a a v ,
’AXX’ aXX>jy i v tr ja i iraT ijp , tv a p lB fx io v ( h a i .
For tho’ you see this soul marlumitted
The Father sends another, that the number may be complete.
Z. or T.
• filrowFr. Pat.
LL
Digitized by G o o g l e
2 58 TH E CH A LD EA N ORACLES
XC. .................. Nrnja e u ra i t a (p ya to v vaTpo<
M oiprtf s ifix ffie v n S t o irrepov epevyovaiv d v a i8 c { ‘
’Ey 8« p xciyrai mpirobf (Xxovaai dxptalov^,
"Ex ira T p o iev xaTioV re; d p ’ Zv p v y r j x a T u r r o iy
'E p w v p itiv S p e v e ra t x a p w u v , ipvyoTjXHpoy ivO o p .
....................Understanding the works of the Father
They avoid the shameless wing of fate ;
They are placed in God, drawing strong torches,
Descending from the Father, from which, as they descend, the
soul
Gathers of the empyreal fruits the soul-nourishing flower.
Z. or T. Proc in Tim. 321.
X CI. To' y e to i n v e v u a to v to t o p v y ix e v , o xai wveuaaTixrjv
i
p v ffiv irpocnjyopevirav of e ib a lp u iv e f, xai 9eo{ xai ia lp iu v
'T«yTo8airo{, xai ei8o>Xoy y l y e r a t, xai raj iroiya; #y TOUTy
T iyei p v y jp . Xp?<r/xo« t o y a p opuxpuyovin xspl a v r o v , T a ip
ovap (p a yT a a ia ip T>jy cxcT Siefayoryijy t ^ { irpo<reixa-
^ovTti'.
This animastic spirit, which blessed men have called the pneu
matic soul, becomes a god, an all-various daemon, and an image,
and the soul in this suffers her punishments. The oracles, too,
accord with this account: for they assimilate the employment of
the soul in Hades to the delusive visions of a dream.
Z. or T. Synes. de Insom. p. 139.— Tay.
X C I I . “ AXX>jy xaT* aX X ijy £ a ijy , a x o pcepiljw/aeyaiv iy je r u y .
“A iuB ey Siyxovrop ex l to x a r ’ a y rixpv
A id to v xtvrpov T yjf yrjp, x a i * wepcxToy jilrrov, aXXoy
nopio%ey, ( v i a x a T e im y-ixpi i"Ka.toiv oyeTSy
Z c
cy
jtp
o
p
o
vitvp.
One life with another, from the distributed channels.
Passing from above through the opposite part
Through the centre of the earth; and the fifth the middle.
• T aylor gives only these tw o last lines from P roc. in T im . 172.
Digitized by C j O O q I c
OK ZOROASTER. 259
Another fiery channel, where the fife-beaming fire descends
As far as the material channels.
Z. or T.
X CUI. Z t o vyp'cv crvfxficAoy' 810 x a j Tore p iy \ij3t£ba xaXouam
avrr/y -njf «Xij< ^uoyovlaf, totc 8f ayiyrjy Tita, tea! IIAaTaw
x a) Tfio nXilTomf 01 Stol.
Moisture is a symbol of life; hence Plato, and the gods before
Plato, call it (the soul); at one time the liquid of the whole of
vivification, and at another time a certain fountain of it.
Z. Proc. in Tim. 318.— Tay.
XCIV. Tf l Tofyojfat in * tj>va-eu(, atifomt, Ttxyaur/Aa.
O man, of a daring nature, thou subtile production.
Z. Psel. 12.—Piet. 21.
XCV. 2o» yap dyytToy &
rjpe< yfioylq am povat.
For thy vessel the beasts of the earth shall inhabit.
Z. Psel. 36.—Piet. 7.
xcvi. Cum anima currat semper, certo temporis spatio
transit omnia, quibus peractis, cogitur recurrere
paulatim per omnia denuo, atque eandem in mundo
telam generationis retexere, ut placuit Zoroastri,
qui iisdem aliquando causis omnino redeuntibus,
eosdem similiter effectuo reverti putat.
Since the soul perpetually runs and passes through all things
in a certain space of time, which being performed, it is presently
compelled to run back again through all things and unfold the .
same web of generation in the world, according to Zoroaster, who
thinks that as often as the same causes return, the same effects
will in like manner be returned.
Z. Ficin de Im. An. 129.—Tay.
xcvn. Voluit Zoroaster aethereum animae indumentum in
nobis assidue volvi.
• ToX/ii^o'raTJjs Psel.—Fr. Patr.
Digitized by Google
MO TH
E C
H
A
L
D
-iC
A
N O
R
A
C
L
E
S
According to Zoroaster, in us the ethereal vestment of the soul
perpetually revolves.
Z. Ficin de Im. An. 131.—Tay.
xcviii. Qui autem a Deo traditi sermones fontem per se
laudant omnis animae empyreas, id est empyrealis,
aetherealis, materialis: et hunc sejungunt ex tota
Zoogonothea, a qua et totum fatum suspendentes
duas faciunt <
reipaf, id est ordines, hane quidem ani-
malem, hanc autem ut diximus poipxTav, id est sortia-
lem, fatalem. Et animam ex altera trahentes, quan-
doque autem fato servire, quando irrationalis facta,
dominum permutaverit, pro providentia fatum.
The oracles delivered by the gods celebrate the essential foun
tain of every soul, the empyrean, the etherial, and the material.
This fountain they separate from the whole vivific goddess*;
from whom also suspending the whole of fate, they make two
series, the one animastic, or belonging to the soul, and the other
belonging to Fate. They assert that the soul is derived from the
animastic series, but that sometimes it becomes subservient to
Fate, whenpassing into an irrational condition ofbeing, it becomes
subject to fate instead of Providence.
Z. or T. Proc. de Prov. ap. Fabr. V III. 486.-—Tay.
MATTER.
MATTER, THE WORLD, AND NATURE.
XC1X. Mifrpa ervKxovo-a t a itd y r a .
The matrix containing all things.
T.
C. ptcp«rpM{ s a l a/aeptorof.
Wholly division, and indivisible.
* Rhea. Tay.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 261
C l. *E»0«v d p ir jy O p t i m a y e v e r t f toXwtoixi'aou 8X
>j{.
Thence abundantly springs forth the generation of multifarious
matter.
T. Proc. in Tim. 118.
C II. O ! Sf m d r o f ia , x a i a l a 6 r \ r d hr][/.iovpyovtrtt
K i l l o-ai/xaTOfi&ij, xai x a r a r e r a y j j U y a O f SXtjv.
These frame indivisibles and sensibles,
And corporiforms and things destined to matter.
T. Dam. de Prin.
C III. N v p u p a i m i y a T c u , x a i h i S i p i a n y e v f i a r a n a n a ,
Kai y fio v to t m 'X tu r e x a i y e p u u x a i v a a v y o t ,
Mi/yaTei rdenji {vtfiyrope( yjt' ^xijStjrai
*TX>){ o£pa>laf re xai iorepiaf, xai afMatruy.
The fontal nymphs, and all the aquatic spirits,
And the terrestrial, aerial, and glittering recesses,
Are the lunar riders and rulers of all matter,
Of the celestial, the starry, and that which lies in the abysses.
Lyd. p. 32.— Tay.
civ. Te x a x o v d/ieyrjyorepov r o v ur o y r o f i a r i v , x a r d t o \ o y i o v .
Evil, according to the oracle, is more frail than nonentity.
Z. or T. Proc. d e Prov.— Tay.
cv. * E7
r#i jxa2rij<rt!f«&a, 8if* i t d y r o f r o v x o r p to v t ijv SXrjv Bnjxtiv,
S r n ie p x a i o l S leo l ( p a r t y .
We learn that matter pervades the whole world, as the gods
also assert.
Z. or T. Proc. Tim. 142.
CVI. 'K r o i f i a r a j i e y l a r i r a . S e t a v a v r a .
X u p i a r a 8’ i y avro ~ < i / x u y e y e x e y M e S e r a t .
M r, ivya/ie'yuf* x a r a t T p ff i v a o -o i/x a ro v i; r u y r u / i d r u v ,
Aia rrjv a-ayxaxixijy elf yy iyextyrplrB rpre, ipvortv.
• iB u /ic 'tiu f F r. P a tr.
Digitized by
262 TH E CHALDJEAN ORACLES
All divine natures are incorporeal,
But bodies are bound in them for your sakes.
Bodies not being able to contain incorporeals
By reason of the corporeal nature, in which you are concentrated.
Z. or T. Proc. in PL Polit. 359.
evil. “Epya yoypraf yap narptxGt; yo'of airoyeyt6\of,
Hacriy iytaxeipe &
e<rpuv wvpiGpiBri (purof,
"O tppa l a n a r c a utyrs, yjivo y Ctf a x ip a v ro v ip u n r a .
Me'vj xierpi* ra itarpif yoepSf ixpatrpeva <ptyytt,
'f l f iv epuri peyjj xotrpav n o i y f i a S e o ir a 'f '.
For the paternal self-begotten mind understanding his works
Sowed in all the fiery bond of love,
That all things might continue loving for an infinite time.
That the connected series of things might intellectually remain
in all the light of the Father,
That the elements of the world might continue their course inlove.
T. Proc. in Tim. 155.
C V III. 'O noil)Tij5 of avrovpyuv re x r y y a r o t w xiapoy.
Kal r If oyxof ojy Zrepof' r a Se x a v r a
A iro v p y u y , Iva artipa t o xoapnw y ixroK vxfvB rj.
KoVjitOf a ' exSijAof, x a ) pi] (palyrirai £/«y«58ijf.
The Maker who, self-operating, framed the world,
And there was another mass of fire : all these things
He produced self-operating, that the body of the world might
be conglobed,
That the world might be manifest, and not appear membranous.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 154.
C IX . ’AipopoLo) y a p ia v r ly , ixeTyo( ix iy ip (v o (
Toy TiiW
oy xfpi€aK \c< r6ai r a y rifiuKvy.
For he assimilates himself, professing
To cast around him the form of the images.
• T. — M rjn Treieri Fr. Patr. f jxbovT« Fr. Patr.
Digitized by Google
OF ZOROASTER. 263
CX. Nov yelp L t/u ru a niXei' to 8c tcjjS cv i%
ct T* edfiarof.
For it is an imitation of Mind, but that which is fabricated has
something of body.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 87.
CXI. “AX>A 8’* cvvopa trtpvov dKOipvjTa tnpotpxKiyyt
Kotrpotf {y6pdtnu.iv, xpaiTvyjV"j" S*a varpcf Ivinr/v.
But projecting into the worlds, through the rapid menace of the
Father,
The venerable name with a sleepless revolution.
Z. or T. Proc. in Crat.
CX II. ‘A t 8* c iv cl t a v tn c iy ftc iv a tS c p c f {vet.
The ethers of the elements therefore are there.
Z. or T. Olymp. in Pkced.—Tay.
CX III. Toil5 Tthtovf tuv xapaxTypav, x a l tSv aX X uv S cla v tpatruaTuv
iv r$> cdScpi tp a lvetrS a t, r d X cyia Xcymxriv.
The bracles assert, that the impression of characters, and of
other divine visions, appear in the ether.
Z. or. T. Simp, in Phys. 144.—Tay.
CXIV. ’E y rctvttf y a p t d d r v T tc n a rtmci/<r6ai.
In this the things without figure are figured.
Z. or T. Simp, in Phys. 143.
«
CXV. T* a ^ fa r a , x a i roc fardc <rv*0vipeara rov xo<r/xou.
The ineffable and effable impressions of the world.
CXVI. Kai o fxi(ro(pav7ji xo<r[//>$, xocl roc <rxoXia ptiQpoc
*T<p' cov TroXXoi xaracrvpoyrai J .
And the light-hating world, and the winding currents
Under which many are drawn down.
Z. or T. Proc,in Tim, 339.
• tornT ay . f xpur11)1 F r. P.
• X xotT
ocettpciT
ouF r. P atr.
Digitized by Google
264 TH E CH A LD EA N ORACLES
CX VII. To» oaov x i r p c y i x n v p l f , x a ) C i a r o f , xa! y r j f ,
Ka! xavTOTpotpov aiSpr/c toifT .
He makes the whole world of fire, and water, and earth,
And all-nourishing ether.
Z. or T.
CX V III. rijv 8’ iv p i t r q i n i f ) f , C bup 8‘ i» y a T a ; xoAxoij,
'Htpa S’ ayuBty tovtuv.
Placing earth in the middle, but water in the cavities of the earth.
And air above these.
Z. or T.
CXIX. nijff 5( xa) tcqXvv ZpuXoy artipny AxAavoJv.
M
>j Taffo Im iciyp noyyptjy
IIl]f71 Of t a dyyjv oix iypvc(ptpta Bat.
To vZp vpo( to iv p ayayxdurot{.
He fixed a great multitude of inerratic stars,
Not by a laborious and evil tension,
But with a stability void of wandering,
Forcing the fire to the fire.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 280.
CXX. 'ExtA yap I f u y x o x r c iraTj)p aTtptupaaa xitrpuy’
Too tipcuoy xvpTcp tryfl/juiTi v(pix\fT<raf.
For the Father congregated the seven firmaments of the world,
Circumscribing the heaven with a convex figure.
Z. or T. Dam. in Parm.
CXXI. Zuuy xa) TtXavvfjLevw vtpemjxcy ^ ttaha.
He constituted a septenary of erratic animals.
Z. or T.
CXXII. To Atcoxtov a vzSy oJtA xtoij a v a xp ip a a a f
Suspending their disorder in well-disposed zones.
Z. or T.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF ZOROA3TBR. 265
CX XIIK * E f o!> tou< irMetrfipr**. t€&0(*o» ypX uv
M
eae/iSoXyraf *2(1.
He made them six in number, and for the seventh.
He cast into the midst the fire of the sun.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 280.
CXXIV. K tyrpyy cup' o j *4< rai * pet%pi( a y rV ffiy 1<rau eatrt.
The centre from which all (lines) which way so ever are equal.
Z. or T. Proc. in Euc. 43.
CXXV. K aJ t a%j< 7/eXiOI *«/)» x jy rp ty , n u t H a t , 6Xflj.
And that the swifl sun may come as usual about the centre.
Z. or T. Proc. in Plat. Th. 317.
CXXVI. Yjvrptj) faL<r*tpx,uy eavriy (parotxeX
.a&
oyrtf.
Eagerly urging itself towards the centre of resounding light.
T. Proc. in Tim. 236.
CXXVII. ‘H eXvx r e fiiy a it, tu u X apirpay <reXytnf*.
And the great sun and the bright moon.
CX X V III. X a lr o u y a p l ( of2 •xeepvxjn tp u r. (9Xe*o»ra<.
For his hairs appear like xaya of light ending in a sharp point.
T. Proc. in PL p 0l. 387.
C X X IX . 'IiX i4 x o » re ktSxXay, x a i perpialuy xa ya yirp eu v.
K oKt iuv T€ Vjtpiutr.
A\9pr)t p e X o f* ijeXiov r e , xa! o%fTw», ij r e tfi/lOf.
And of the solar circles, and of the lunar claahings,.
And of the aerial recesses,
The melody of the ether, and of the sun, and of the passage* of
the moon, and of the air.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 257.
CXXX. O f y e piverrixAraroe r a y \o y u v t x a i t t jv g Xo t ^t o c u v to v rrjy
• Hay. substitutes, xa) irpit i. i pipe* T»y.
M M
Digitized by
266 THE CHALDEAN ORACLES
i t t o T( in stftu xT fjL u if a a p a h e ta K a a it. txc~ y a p o y X J«xo( xo<r-
pof xal t o o ao v <
(>
£
<
;, &( cu tc X a X i a i u t (fnjpai Aeyown.
The most mystic of discourses inform us, that the wholeness of
him (the sun) is in the supermundane orders: for there a solar
world and a total light subsist, as the oracles of the Chaldaeans
affirm.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 264.— Toy.
CXXXI. ‘O aXrjScarepef ?>J0{ crupperpel ru yjpettp ra natra, xpovav
Xpovof at dreypuf, x o t s t r)t vepi avrov ra t Seat opjprqt.
The more true sun measures all things by time, being truly a
time of time, according to the oracle of the gods concerning it.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 249.— Tay.
CXXXII. ‘O SiTxof lit) t5J{ atdarpeu tpeperai, woXii rrj( avXatovf
i\pr}Xerepaf. xai ovra Sr ra t pet nXatupetat oux e£et re
peaet, rpiut 8f ra t w aput Kara rd f reXeariKaf CvoSeaeif.
The disk (of the sun) is carried in the starless much above the
inerratic sphere : and hence he is not in the middle of the planets
but of the three worlds, according to the telestic hypotheses.
Z. or T. Jul. Orat. V. 334.— Tay.
CXXXIII. IXup inpof i\cyj-revpa,
Kai rvpof raptaf.
(The sun is a)* fire, the channel of fire, and the dispenser of fire.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 141.
CXXXIV. f'Evfla Kpetof.
’HeXtOf vdpedpef iitunumeut mXet aytet.
Hence Cronus.
The sun assessor beholding the pure pole.
CXXXV. hS9epief re ip epef xal p y tr ft dnXerof oppr/t
’H epiol re pea1
.
• Tay. insert*. f Taylor omits this and the two following.
Digitized by Google
OK ZOROASTER. 267
The ethereal course and the vast motion of the moon
And the aerial fluxes.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 257.
CXXXVI. A lS yp , r j\u , •nevpsa <rt\rjyrj(, a*pc< a y e t.
Oh ether, sun, spirit of the moon, leaders of the air.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 257.
cXXXVII. Kai arjp, pi\ya 7 i( re ipopuf, teal mXof ijeXuie.
And the wide air, and the lunar course, and the pole of the sun.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 257.
C X X X V III. T«T e» y a p ij S e a r/fXior r e p ity a y x a l Xapurpicy ertXyprtpy.
For the goddess brings forth the great sun and the bright moon.
CX X X IX . 2v\X*yti airo, XapSinva-a aiBfif ptekef*,
’HcX/ou re, < r e X r e , xai ora r)tpt m y iy p r ta t.
She collects it, receiving the melody of the ether,
And of the sun, and of the moon, and of whatsoever things are
contained in the air.
CXL. “A f/fi S’ aZ tj>ia-i( axapuxTij xZapusv re xeu epyuy'
O ipa*0( wppa S c o hpopuv atbioy xa ra yrip u y.
Kai o~x; a y a t aXXai aepioboi •sXripuyrai r/Xlov, aeXijyrn, u p m ,
wxtc$, rjpUpa(.
Unwearied nature rules over the worlds and works,
That heaven drawing downward might run an eternal course,
And that the other periods of the sun, moon, seasons, night, and
day, might be accomplished.
Z. or. T. Proc. in Tim. 4. & 323.— Tay.
CXLI. Notci; S
* a p u p ) 9 t S ( t p i lt r i f asXeTOf r i& p y p r a i.
Immense nature is exalted about the shoulders of the goddess.
T. Proc. in Tim. 4.
* ptpeg Tay.
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
8 6 8 TH E OHAW M AW ORACLES
cxlii. T
C
v Ba/Si&
ovldv ol botupirarot, xat ’O
rrdtvp, m) Zv-
ptKZTTpqs, ayekap kiipiup xaXcUor ra p ittrrptwdp npalpap.
M
H r« nap' trov r(Xetup ayovrat irepi t o vUvrpov pivot napd
rot aupariHot ptytSi;• rj arc rov rvvhrpot nap xat awd-
yayat yj^part^en boypocrt^tjSat nap’ airtSv ray tpvtrtxSv
Xoyojv, op Ayeovp ra ra ra aura aaAovcnv iv rotp ttpo~p
Xoyop' Hard napepnrunv Se to3 yappla, a yyi’
Koup- Atb
oat roup xafl' exaorijv r ouray ayeXuv i^apyovrap atrtepap,
■Hat iatptvap iputlovp dyytXmp, xai apyayyeXovp oipotrar-
y tr p e fa a S a ty e h r t p , ei< r)v i n r a r i v d p tO p o v .
The most ‘
celebrated of the Babylonians, together with Ostanes
and Zoroaster, very properly call the starry spheres herds;
whether because these alone among corporeal magnitudes, are
perfectly carried about a centre, or in conformity to the oracles,
because they are considered by them as in a certain respect the
bonds and collectors of physical reasons, which tbey likewise
call in their sacred discourses herds, and by the insertion of a
gamma, angels. Wherefore the stars which preside over each of
these herds are considered demons similar to the angels, and are
called archangels : and they are seven in number.
Z. Anon, in Theologumenis Arithmeticis.—Tay.
c x l iii. Congruitates materialium formarnm ad rationes
animee mundi, ZoroaBter drvinas illiees appeflavit.
Zoroaster calls the congruities of material forms to the reasons of
the soul of the world, divine allurements.
Z. Fic. de vitceel. comp. 519.— Tay.
MAGICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL PRECEPTS.
CXLIV. M
)} r d n tX d p ta p e r p a yourip into <rtj» tppeva fiaXXov
O v y a p a X vfie’
rpp (pvrov tv) yOov).
M rjre p e rp tt p e r p a ijXiou vuavovap <rvva$poltrap
’Attitp /3ov\y (piper a t narpop o iy eventv ro v.
Mijujf poTCflv eaaov del r p iy f t “pytp dvdyH yp.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 869
'Atrrepim tpo-nipeupa, a iB ti yjdpu oOk I'M y fifa .
AHBpn< ipylBuy t apo-'if ■jrXaTVf oi vet’ dXrjBrx,
Ov %v<rluv <rn'Kd.yx''vv te, topal‘ td $ dBvppata adyta,
’Epjnpnujf dvdtyj( <rrijplypattx' ipovyt aril ravta
M eA A »» tu iTtSiijf Upon napdlfuroy dvotyay.
“EyB’ dpetii, ao^tia to, xal tiaopia avydyovtai.
Direct not thy mind to the vast measures of the earth;
For the plant of truth is not upon ground.
Nor measure the measures of the sun, collecting rules,
For he is carried by the eternal will of the father, not for your
sake.
Dismiss the impetuous course of the moon; for she runs always
by the work of necessity.
The progression of the stars was not generated for your sake.
The wide aerial flight of birds is not true,
Nor the dissections of the entrails of victims: they are all mere
toys,
•The basis of'mercenary fraud: flee from these
If you would open the sacred paradise of piety
Where virtue, wisdom, and equity, are assembled.
Z. Psel. 4.
CXLV. Mfjtf xdtm yeCmif «>? rev pikayavyea xoirpov,
rfl /3v6i( a ih avtatof vvta tputat re xal {
'AuuptYyttpTtf pvniat, eJSwAo^afijf, d»oi)TO{,
Kpr)pyuhvjs, <rxoA<o{, vupbv fidBof, altv ikltnrm,
’At! yvpuptvosy dtpaytf iepat;, apyo» atrytvpay.
Stoop not down to the darkly-splendid world;
In which continually lies a faithless depth, and Hades
Cloudy, squalid, delighting in images unintelligible,
Precipitous, winding, a blind profundity always rolling,
Always espousing an opacous, idle, breathless body.
Z. or T. Synes de Insom. 140.
CXLVI. M y r f w itu vtvatif, Kpyjpyof w ita ytjf vtow itat.
'Eirravopov atlpuv K a ta f3aBp!hi(' rjy vnh $ciyij(
'Aydywijf &pomf ia tl.
Digitized by
2 70 TH E CHALDjEA N ORACLES
Stoop not down, for a precipice lies below the earth,
Drawing under a descent of seven steps, beneath which
Is the throne of dire necessity.
Z. Psel. 6.—Piet. 2.
CXLVII. Mijre* t s -)- T r ji vkr]< a ~ x v € a k o y x p i j y y S x a T a k e i'x p e y
’E o r ! x a ! J eiSaAjj y e p i f ( ! { T o m v d y t p u p a l t r a .
Leave not the dross of matter on a precipice,
For there is a portion for the image in a place ever splendid.
Z. Psel. 1. 2.—Piet. 14.—Syn. 140.
CXLVIII. Mi) (pvtreuc xaAeo-7jf airlmpoy ayaky.ec.
Invoke not the self-conspicuous image of nature.
Z. Pie/. 15.—PZef. 23.
CXLIX. M»j ipvaiy § lytkeipeif, etyapyeyov oivoya T^irSe.
Look not upon nature, for her name is fatal.
Z. Proc. in Plat. Th. 143.
CL. Oi yap %
prj xeuwf ere fiklneiv nxp'iy eruya TeAeoSSj’
*Ore rpv%af Sekyovrcf at) t u v rcket Zv airdyovm.
It becomes you not to behold them before your body is initiated,
Since by always alluring, they seduce the souls of the initiated.
Z. or T. Proc. in I. Alcib.
CLI. Mij Iva yrj ZfioEtra e
’jjr/ T».
Bring her || not forth, lest in departing she retain something.
Z. Psel. 3.—Piet. 15.
CLII. Mtj m tuya yokJvyf yrjrt fiaBvypf to lielmhoy.
Defile not the spirit, nor deepen a superficies.
Z. Psel. 19.—Piet. 13.
* Synes. unites the two, and subjoins Syn yip Tim i» out* ytpitx. For it has
a portion in it.
+ Ou Tm Syn, J ’AAA.! xou Syn. § ipirtw s F t. Pat.
|| The soul.—Tay.
,y
Google
OF ZOROASTER. 271
CLIII. <rv a t ( a y f ttjv eipappievrir.
Enlarge not thy destiny.
Z. Psel. ST.—Piet. 4.
CLIV. OOSe inepf2d%puov r tlia p im u v , hot* Xoyiov el( rij»Sew re& ilav.
Not hurling, according to the oracle, a transcendent foot towards
piety.
Z. or T. Dam. in vit. Isidori ap. S u i d . — Tay.
CLV. ’Ov ip u n a fiapfSapa aXXa£i(,
Kitr! yap cyo u a ra n a p ’ ix d r r o if &eoVSoTa
A v y a u ty ty TfAcraij afpr^Tm ty fiY r a .
Never change barbarous names,
For there are names in every nation given from God,
Having unspeakable efficacy in the mysteries.
Z. or T. Psel. 7.—Niceph.
c e v i. Nec exeas cum transeat lictor.
Go not out when the lictor passes by.
Z. Pic. Concl.—Tay.
CLVII. 'EAttk TpftptT u ire m ployfif a y y e X ix u i»i x^PV-
Let fiery hope nourish you in the angelic region.
Z. or T. Olym. in Phced.—Proc. in A/cib.
CLVIII. 'H m piB aX urif evvota wpuriirTi}v %x(i
Tcu nvp) y a p (3poTot ly .m \d tr a ( BeoBev <pai( e£ei.
AijSiWti y a p f3pm £ xp a nrvoi u a x a p e f reXeBovm.
The fire-glowing conception has the first rank,
For the mortal who approaches the fire shall have light from God,
For to the persevering mortal, the blessed immortals are swift.
Z. or T. Proc. in Tim. 65.
C llX. TlapaxeXevorrat oi S fO i
N'Ai> (parof nporeS eia a v.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
2 7 2 THE CHAIB^AN ORACLES
The Gods exhort us
To understand the preceding form of light.
Z. or T. Proc. in Crat.—Toy.
CLX. X p r j (r e c n e v Z e w w p o ( TOt p a o f x a i i r a T p i f a v y c b f ,
“Eyffey lirepupBri <
roi 4/vX
V
>noXly iera-a/Mvii yovy.
It becomes you to hasten to the light and the rays of the Father,
From whence was sent to you a soul endued with much mind.
Z. Psel. 33.—Piet. 6.
C LX I. Z^T»)(ro» icapexiela-ov.
Seek paradise.
Z. Psel. 20.—Ptet. 12.
C LX II. M a v Q a v c to m rp rb v , I m ) vo'ou e f a i v d p y j u .
Learn the Intelligible, for it subsists beyond the mind.
Z. Psel. 41.— Piet. 27.
C L X III. vE<tt< y a p t! yoojTor, o ire voelv v i m a yO cy.
There is a certain Intelligible which it becomes you to understand
with the flower of Mind.
Z. Psel. 31.—Piet. 28.
CLXIV. ’AAa’ o ix e h r l t y j T a L x ( ly i ) f to d e X e i y ora r p t x o f v o v f,
Me x p ‘i Xijflijs, x a i prj//.a XaXij<r7
]
Myvjuijy ty5((Atyr * vaTpixov (rvyirjpMrtf dyyov.
But the paternal mind receives not herf will
Until she has gone out of oblivion, and pronounce the word,
Assuming the memory of the pure paternal symbol.
Z. Psel. 39.—Piet. 5.
CLXV. Tor's W S A x k t w eSojxe <pdov( yyapter/xa 'K a tla B a t'
T out 8e i m u o y r a f eyjf iv tx a p m < r ty d X x i j f .
• uo%tfiiyr\ Fr. Pat. f The »oul.—Tay.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ZOROASTER. 273
To these he gave the ability of receiving the knowledge of light;
Those that were asleep he made fruitful from his own strength.
Z. or T. Syn. de Intom. 135.
/
CLXVI. * 0 £ 5-tj xfi <
r<
futpiinjT
i rorfr to yorpiir iruivo.
’AXAa roov rayaov t ayay <f>\oyi x a y ra pterpoverr],
n x ^ to yoyjToy ixtiyo. Xprj "j" 8rj tcv to yatjacu'
*H y ip ix fy td jy y t a n w in , xpruiyo m ja d f
O u x a r ty S f . J ’AXX’ dyvar fo ia rp u p o y w ua (ptporra,
2!j{ atiyau xeytov y in to vorpin,
“O<ppa t $voijt ov-
'Ettci vo'ou vtt&pxfi.
It is not proper to understand that Intelligible with vehemence,
But with the extended flame of an extended mind measuring all
things
Except that Intelligible. But it is requisite to understand this:
For if you incline your mind you will understand it
Not earnestly, but it becomes you to bring with you a pure and
inquiring eye,
To extend the void mind of your soul to the Intelligible,
That you may learn the Intelligible,
Because it subsists beyond mind.
T. Dam.
CLXVII- ‘O t T» m ay, o£ rainy yorjaei(.
You will not understand it, as when understanding some par
ticular thing.
T. Dam.
CLXVIII. Oi Toy Cxfpxoapuy xarpirun f3v6oy ia r t wovyrtp.
You, whounderstand, know the supermundane paternal depth.
Z. or T. Dam.
• Patr. joins this with the preceding. f Fr. Pair.
J axTivo.; Fr. Patr.
N N
Digitized by Google
274 THE CHALDfAN ORACLES
CLXIX. 04 y a p fariv iip M T i t a SreTa jSpoTOif rs~ ( <rufxa yoeviriv,
Ka! !<roi y ifu n fT H i v d n e iio v tr i vpo< !npl<.
Things divine are not attainable by mortals who understand body.
But only as many as are lightly armed arrive at the summit.
Z. or T. Proc. in Crat.—Tay.
CLXX* ‘EiT O - a p U w v v & n e u y p v d k x r j v t p a r ' o f KtXaSoym?,
'AXkj vptykfxf Un iJmxV itXlaaurta
IlayToia&Of* c^yB r.ua jSe£X
X
eiy tppev)' u r fi (-ztipsirav
'E/amplm <
ntop4&
rp lyfrotf, d\aA OTiSaprjSly.
Having put on the complete-armed vigour of resounding light.
With triple strength fortifying the soul and the mind,
He must put into the mind the symbol of variety, and not walk
Dispersedly on the empyreal channels, but collectively.
CLXXI. Kct» y a p 8e • n d y r e v x o t , «T« S j c j / t p t .
For being furnished with every kind of armour, and armed, he is
similar to the goddess.
T. Proc. in PL Th. 324.—Tay.
CLXXII. Afljco ov 4^X3? ° X t T 0 V i t i a , t j t u i i rofei > ■
l i f o a t i S ip reilira f,^ ell Tafiy dtp’ Tjf
AI9 if d v a r r y tr r if, U pS X Syy ip y w e v a a a f.
Explore the river of the soul, whence, or in what order,
Having become a servant to body, you may again rise
To the order from which you descended, joining works to sacred
reason.
Z. Psel. 5.—Piet. 1.
CLXXIII. IIoyToSev a n \d a ~ r p \p v tfj rvp o f rjvta Tuyoy.
Every way to the unfashioned soul extend the reins of fire.
Z. Psel. 11_
_ Piet. 24.
• iron.T0
1
0
VTay. 1 t T t i i n x i Fr. Patr.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 275
CLX X IV. 'H yth rO u l/'i'X'K (3a®0{ apiSperex, tp i/x a ra S’ dpbqv
l l d n a in n ercu ro t arm.
Let the immortal depth of your soul lead you,
But earnestly extend your eyes upwards.
Z. Psel. 11__ Piet. 20.
CLXXV. X p j Sc ^aX /nuo-ai \ p v y ^ y flp e r e y e v r a VOIJTOV,
“O ippa p y iyxvprrp jj&ow ivepeoppp d \ k d < radSy.
Man, being an intelligible mortal, must bridle his soul,
That she may not incur terrestrial infelicity but be saved.
Lyd. de Men. 2.—Tay.
CLXXVI. .....................’KxTf/iaj nvpivov tevv
’Epr/ny in ' p tv n o r x a l arSpui<rad<r(i(.
If you extend the fiery mind to the work of piety,
You will preserve the fluxible body.
Z. Psel. 22__Piet. 16.
CLX X VII. 'H TeXco-Tixij ^en) 8*a rev Oelev m p o f dtpayCCfi r d f in rij(
yevi<rco( oLnatrai xijX/Sa;, tip r i /J y iey iiS d r x e i, x a l n d r a v
rrjy aXKorpiey, r)y i<pei\xiSa-aro r ij( \pvv i ( T®m e v p a , xcu
aK er/irroy ipviriy.
The telestic life, through a divine fire, removes all the stains, to
gether with every foreign and irrational nature, which the spirit
of the soul attracted from generation, as we are taught by the
oracle to believe.
Z. or T. Procl. in Tim. 331.—Tay.
C LX X V III. T d r S y 0tSy \ l y i i <pa<ri, e ri 8id rrj; d y ia r e la f ev% yj 4/vx h
IMVOV, d h X a K O I r d a u p u e ra {3<n)6eia( veWrjf x a l aerrrjplaf
d ^ ie v y r a i. X tS^ercu y a p (ip ra t) xal t o m x p d f Shift m p t-
flkyifia Pplreiov. el 0eol v n tp d y yo if napaxfX evlpitvoi ru n
Q cevpyuv x a r e n a y y e W o y r a i.
The oracles of the Gods declare, that, through purifying cere
monies, not the soul only, but bodies themselves become worthy
of receiving much assistance and health: “ for (say they) the
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
2 76 TH E CH A LD EA N ORACLES
mortal vestment of bitter matter will, by this means, be pre
served.” And this, the Gods, in an exhortatory manner, announce
to the most holy of Theurgists.
Z. or T. Jul. Orat. V. p. 334.— Tay.
CLX X IX . fiocTf'oi', K a r a t o Aayiov,
T o 7rX5jdof rS v avSpvituy r u y dyeXijhoy leyruy.
We should flee, according to the oracle,
The multitude of men going in a herd.
Z. or T. Proc. in I. Ale.— Tay.
c l x x x . Qui se cognoscit, in se omnia cognoscit.
Who knows himself knows all things in himself.
Z. 1 Pic. p. 211.— Tay.
c l x x x i . Responsa saepe victoriam dant nostris electionibus,
et non soli ordini mundalium periodorum: puta
quando et dicunt: “ Te ipsum videns, verere.” Et
iterum: “ Extra corpus esse te ipsum crede, et
es.”• Et quid oportet dicere, “ Ubi et aegritudines
voluntarias pullulare nobis aiunt ex tali vita nostra
nascentes.”
The oracles often give victory to our own choice, and not to the
order alone of the mundane periods. As, for instance, when
they say, “ On beholding yourself, fear.” And, again, “ Believe
yourself to be above body, and you are.” And, still further,
when they assert “ That our voluntary sorrows germinate in us
as the growth of the particular life we lead.”
Z. or T. Proc. de Prov. p. 483.—Tay.
CLX X X II. ’AAAa raZza iy d t a z o 8 i dyeXit t u .
These things I revolve in the recluse temples of my mind.
C LX X X III. '( I f yovy (pyja't x a l to Xoyioy, c iify o f e x x tv aXXov d m tr r p i-
<jxTai 8to; a y ip a , xa< yea< tu z z e u n e i a r p a m i f- a< erray
a z d i T t i i f x a l 'n X r ^ u u e X u ; erri t a O e i i r a z a t u v B e a p y ip u ir u y ,
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER. 277
ij Tuy ejly v y , x a i to X tyi/xtyoy, i/tv y r o if r t o p a t r n , ^
d v /irro if xoo-1 ironjaopeB a r y y avcZov. T u y y ip oS tu p u -
TiovTuy, d T tX tif /.« v elo-i h ia fia ireif, K tvai 8e a t oppa),
TixpXat Se ai drpaixol.
As the oracle, therefore, says, “ God is never so much turned
away from man, and never so much sends him new paths, as
when he makes ascent to the most divine of speculations, or
works, in a confused or disordered manner, and, as it adds, with
unhallowed lips, or unwashed feet. For of those who are thus
negligent, the progressions are imperfect, the impulses are vain,
and the paths are dark.”
Z. or T. Procl. in Parm.—Tay.
CLXXXIV. 048" art vac, dya&oc, &eo$ eiSoTf{ draXatpyai
Nijxpare.
Not knowing that every god is good, you are fruitlessly vigilant.
Z. or T. Proc. in PI. Pol. 355.— Tay.
CEXXXV. 0 4 ydp i<p' tlpdprrjV * d y l\ijv vimmxry Qeovpyot.
Theurgists fall not so as to be ranked among the herd that are
in subjection to fate.
Lyd. de Men.— Tay.
CEXXXVI. 0e7o{ oT
*j(IvvcdSof dpidpif c
’x t piuvrpiabuyn\ripovpevo(,x z 1
rdf aK
pO
TiyTaf T
v
j<SeoAoylaf Kara ttjx X 'x/.C aixry (piXoao-
(plccy(&( (p
yjcrivI ITQ
p
<
p
ip
K
>
i) ditO
TU
^uy.
“ That the number nine is divine, receiving its completion from
three triads, and preserving the summits of theology according to
the Chaldaic philosophy, as Porphyry informs us.”
Lyd. p. 121.— Tay.
CLX X XV II. A aijo -’ It \dyotrty ‘E x d -n jf dpcrrjf irtXe mjyij'
“Eydoy ZX
ij plpyovtra., t o vdpBoyox ol •npotiiva..
In the left sides of Hecate is a fountain of virtue,
. Which remains entire within, not sending forth its virginity.
Z. Psel. 13.—Piet. 9.
* Tay. proposes «iyuap/mijv.
Digitized by
278 THE CHALDiEAN ORACLES
CLXXXVIII, A C t o v ( * 8i x&uv KaToSt/WTaif i< r c t c y a p i e x p i f ,
And the earth bewails them even to their children.
Z. Peel. PA.—Piet. 3.
CLX X X IX . A* *o/»ai pcplicuv a y x r a p a i.
The furies are the constramers of men.
Z. Peel. 9.5.—Piet. 19.
CXC. “I r a Iioj jSairri<r& t/<ra x&ovo; olrrpoip, teal tcm j -n jf ^>v<reu(
d v d y x a if (a { iprprl t i ( t£ » d (u v') dnl'K ryrai.
Lest being baptized in the furies of the earth, and in the ne
cessities of nature (as some one of the gods says) it should
perish.
Z. or T. Proc in Theol. 297.— Tay.
CXCI. 'H Iptlaif H ti9 a tlv a i r o l( $a/pu>vaf dyyobp
K a i t d Kctxrjs p \a a -rrj/x a T a %p?i<rrd, xai ler$Xa.
Nature persuades us that there are pure demons.
Even the blossoms of evil matter are useful and good.
Z. Psel. 16.—Piet. 18.
c x c ii. Adhuc tres dies sacrificatibis, et non ultra.
As yet three days ye shall sacrifice, and no longer.
Z. Pic.Concl.— Tay.
CX CIII. A £to{ S’ h itpuTOtf lep clf itvpcf (frya w f}(p ra y,
K v p ta rt p a !y« r5 a nay(pap f3apviix(H + dXfArjf.
In the first place, the priest, who governs the works of fire,
Must sprinkle with the cold water of the loud-sounding sea.
Z. or T. Proc. in Crat.— Tay.
CXCIV. 'Y .v tp yo it(p) ts v 'E xam xov n p iip d K o v.
Energize about the Hecatic Strophalus.
Z. Psel. 9.—Nicep.
• *A«) to(Jo‘8« Psel.— A A tows T ay.
f xariufCtTou Psel. T ay .— xaru/pixrou F t . P atr.
X &
ctp6x%
tT
os Al.—/3«pu^TouSchaef.—^apuri^tros Tay.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ZOROASTER* 279
CXCV. *HWx> V i f x i/ u y tv m playtuty tai'/xo»’ d$ri<rrj<,
0i'e A lSoy Myt^ovpiy in cu Z tiv.
When you shall see a terrestrial demon approaching
Exclaim, and sacrifice the stone Mnizurin.
Z. , . P»el. 40.
CXCVI. rioXX^xK Xefgc I'M aOfijirjK T& .W i y / i m r t a , *
O H i y a p oipayU f xuproi Tore tp a ivcra i v yM (.
’A tr r e p n ov A&jjutovai, t o pirjyrn <p3( yun& kvxrau,
X 6w y ov% e m p u y , ( p A ty tr a ! ^ te a d v r a xepavyaTf.
If you often invoke me you shall see all things darkening.
For neither does the convex bulk of heaven then appear,
Nor do the stars shine, the light of the moon is hidden.
The earth stands not still, but all things appear in thunders.
Z. Psel. 10.— Piet. 22.
CXCVII.............................................. ’Etc S’ a p a koAiivy
T a lrif S p u im o va t y fiiv u i x iy c f, o i h o t ’
Xrj/JLa J fipirtp M p l tc n w r r c f .
...........................From the cavities
Of the earth leap forth terrestrial dogs,
Shewing no true sign to mortal man.
Z. Psel. 23.—Piet. 17.
CXCVIII. U Zp ixeXoy tn ujm jJor § I n ’ y\epoz olipoa \\ TiToumy,
*H x a i %vp arvicuT oy, o8ey tpayypi TpoOeouray,^ f
*H <po( *Aei'<rioy,** d pupufyayefj~J’ foi^aioy,
'A X A h x a i tw% n ItfTy <purof vA iov d r r p a v r o y r a ,
• Lob.—iS p tja m w irra Xiorra Tay. Fr. Patr.— * A m j A txriy Piet,
f (SxArrrdu Fr. Patr. Tay.
1 ff&fjux Fr. Patr.
} oxtfmtTy Lob.
|| S/ut Lob.
^ Lob proposes pans} wpoSiautrir.
• • Qesn. and Tay. have trXijvioi’.
t+ Tay.—i/x p t^ S iit Lob—i/xip) yZr}* Herman.—ippiyZ r,. Vulg.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
280 TH E CHALDjEA N ORACLES.
*H xa! itaila 80011;* kStoi; ImxoufMiOv Initm,
“E/joKvpw ij X
Pva¥ *CTV
x«W
f*nw
« rj itaXtyv/Atov,
*H xal io£(vovja, xal la~njSr’ &r< h5toi{.
A similar fire flashingly extending itself into the waves of the air,
Or even unfigured fire, whence an antecedent voice,
Or light rich, glittering, resounding, revolved.
But when you see a horse glittering with light,
Or a boy, carried on the swift back of a horse,
Fiery, or clothed in gold, or naked,
Or shooting with a bow, or standing upon horseback—
Z. or T. Proc. in PI. Polit. 380.
cxcix. 'H»ixa f^ / x p y f <*T tP d t* p * >
AapottofMvov anipTr^ov oaov x ara /3tv8ea xlr/uv,
KXI9i mpi( (pcorrjv.
When you behold a sacred fire without form
Shining Dashingly through the depths of the whole world
Hear the voice of fire.
Z. Psel. 14.—Piet. 25.
• t h u s F r. P atr.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
F R A G M E N T S
OF THE
HERMETIC, ORPHIC, PYTHAGOREAN,
AND OTHER
COSMOGONIES AND THEOGONIES.
o o
Digitized by Google
Digitized by L i o o Q l e
HERMETIC FRAGMENTS.
FROM THE ANCIENT HERMETIC BOOKS.
n P O t u y oyrai( array x a i t &y
oX
axap^ay, Im 0eo{<
I<
,irp«-
to{ x a i toC w p ir o v 0 eov x a i
fiatrtAeaf, (ix/njT O f fuyo-
T1
JT( T ilt iaUTOU hoTTjTOf pnevay.
o vrt ybvp a i r y tm n A e -
m tr a t, o v t t aX ko t i ‘ ita p a -
itiy jjM he ihpvrat tu v a v r o -
v& Tipof, a ir o y o v w , x a i piovo-
iraropoc 0 mE, toS oyro< A y a -
floE. M<<£oy y a p Ti x a i icpu-
Toy, x a i Ttyjyyj rS » ■warruy,
x a i b TvQfAriv t u v yoovpoevav
v p d r u y tihuy arra y' i v h he
t o v h o i ro ih a v, o a iT & p xq f
0 eo{ eavrov e£cXapt\f* , hio
x a i airrvK&Tup x a i a vrd p xris.
‘ApXV y a p oI t o ( x a i 0 to{
6 eSx‘ putv&f i x t o v evo(, w pa-
ovaiof x a i Apjp; Tyjf aitr!a<‘
el*’ a £ ro 5 y a p ij o w m rtjf x a i
1 overto,' hit x a i yyifT&pyflf
Be f o r e all things that essentiallyexist,
and before the total principles, there
is one God, prior to the first God and
King, remaining immoveable in the
solitude of his unity; for neither is
the Intelligible immixed with him,
nor any other thing. He is estab
lished, the exemplar of the God who
is the father of himself, self-begotten,
the only father, and who is truly
good. For he is something greater,
and the first; the fountain ofall things,
and the root ofall primary Intelligible
existing forms. But out of this one,
the self-ruling God made himself
shine forth; wherefore he is the fa
ther of himself, and self-ruling: for
he is the first principle and God of
Gods. He is the monad from the
one; before essence, yet the first
principle of essence, for from him is
entity and essence; on which account
Digitized by C.ooQle
2 8 4 H ERM ETIC FRAGM ENTS,
wpoaayepeierait Aural |««y
olv tlaiv dpx&‘ wpea€Jrarai
wavruv, a f 'Eppyrjf np» ruv
a\6epluv xai iptrvplov @e3v
wpeararrei xai T«y inov-
pcarluv.
E a r’ aXXijv 8e rd£tv erpof-
rarrei &<o» Toy 'Hpyrp* run
(mvpayfuv SreSv 7]yevp.(YQy’ Sy
<fnja-tv vovv tlvat avToy lavrev
voovna, xai Ta? unja-tif elf
eairov iititrrpeifxniTa. ToZnt
Sf to ev a/Mptf, xai o tjnjci
itpum puzyevpui nperarrei’
oy xai Ei’xTwy ennepuz^et' in p
8>
j to ’
npZ'Tov lari youy, xai to
trpurov vorjrhy, o Stj xai 81A
tri'yijt/xoyi){Sepaireilerai. ’Exl
6c toi/toij T«y epujtauuv S)j-
fximpyiaf aXXoi srposorijxao’iy
yyepiivff. o -yap hrjpuovpyixlf
vevf, xai t?{ dXij&eiaj orpoo--
rarrif, xai <r<xp!af, lpyjtp.eva.
piev M yevanv, xai t^v d<f)a-
yrj Twy x.(x.pvp.piemv }.lyuv 8u-
yap.iv elf <puf aytev, ’ApiSv Ka
ra Tojy rSy Alyvrrluv yXSa-
aay XcycTai. OTivTcXoiy 8e
aipevfiZf exao-Ta, xai reyyi-
x5{ /*ct’ aKrphelaf *EX-
Xijyc{ 8c, elf *H<paiarov p-e-
TaXajKjSayowri Toy <I>Sa, tj5
rc/ilv-p aoiov x^o<rj3aXXoyrc{"
he is celebrated as the chief of the
Intelligibles. These are the most an
cient principles of all things, which
Hermes places first in order, before
the ethereal and empyrean gods and
the celestial.
But, according to another division,
he (Hermes) places the god Emeph*
as the ruler of the celestial gods: and
says that he is Intellect understanding
himself, and converting other'intel
ligences to himself. And before.this
he places the indivisible One, which
he calls the first effigies, and de
nominates him Eicton ; in whom, in
deed, is the first Intellect and the first
' Intelligible: and this One is venerated
in silence. Besides these, other rulers
are imagined to exist, which govern
the fabrication of things apparent: for
the demiurgic Intellect, which pro
perly presides over truth and wis
dom, when it proceeds to generation
and leads forth into light the inap-
parent power of the secret reasons,
is called Amon, according to the
Egyptian tongue: and when it per
fects all things not deceptively, but
artificially according to truth, Phtha;
but the -Greeks change the word
Phtha into Hephaestus, looking only
to the artificial: regarded as the pro
ducer of good things, it is called
* Generally supposed to be a mistake for K»l<p, Cneph.
Digitized by Google
H ERM ETIC FRAGM ENTS.
dyaddy Si * » i i j t i x o { uy"0<rtpt;
xfxXijTai' xai aXXa< St’ aX-
Xa{ Swdput; t ( xat irtpyela;
inaniptla; ”E<m «Z»
xai aXXij t < ( yyc/Mvla nap’
auTot; -rut nepi yivuriv oXuv
crzciyjtduv. xa) tS» &> auxo~
5
Svyapuav, teziapav pur dp-
<renxSy, rcrrdpay Si dy\v-
xuy, rjyrtya dnoycptoixrty'HXip.
Koi aXX«j t^{ <pva(a; oX»j<t5}{
nepi ycyctrtv dpyjlj;, JfxTiva 2«-
Xijnj S1
S0
W 1
. Kaxa jutpij re
Sta\ap*[3dyoyTc; tm ovpavoy el;
Sic ptoipa;, 1) « T T a p a { , 7] 8«S-
8«xa, ^ if xa) rptaxovra, t
j
StnKatria; t o i / t av, npoTar-
t o ih t i irXf/wa{, t i'KaTTcya;,
ndai Si airly vnepeyovTa av-
tS», ?va npoTtdeatrt. xat oS-
t u ; dyadcy dypt ray t eXtu-
Ta/ax ij 7T(p* t£» dpyay A’
l-
yvm'tot; npayptarela, dtp’ eyo;
dpxeTut, xat npoetaty tl( n\jj~
do; t ay noXXSx aZ&i< £^>’
SfaxvfitpYajxeyur, xai nayra-
%«u too doptatoo rpdtrea; ixt-
xpaTovpteyyj; in i Ttvo; apttr-
ptiyoo ptCTpov, xa) t^{ iyarara
iytaia; ndrray atria;. "TXyr
Si napr/yayev o 0co< iiri rtj;
oitrtirriro; ino<rx}Tdei<rq; vXc-
rrjro;, y\y napaAafldy o A>j-
1*1ovpyo; ^urtxriy olray, rot;
ax'Ad; xai dnadti; trtpa'tpa;
i n ’ airy; iSrn*toopyri<re. to Si
285
Osiris, and according to its other
powers and attributes it has different
appellations. There is also, accord
ing to them, another certain principle
presidingover all theelements inastate
of generation, and over the powers
inherent in them, four of which are
male, and four female; and this prin
ciple they attribute to the Sun. There
is yet another principle of all nature
regarded as the ruler over generation,
and this they assign to the Moon.
They divide the heavens also into
two parts, or into four, or twelve, or
thirty-six, or the doubles of these;
they attribute to them leaders more
or less in number; and over them
they place one whom they consider
superior to them all. Hence, from
the highest to the last, the doctrine
of the Egyptians concerning the prin
ciples, inculcates the origin of all
things from One, with different gra
dations to the Many; which (the
Many) are again held to be under
the supreme government of the One:
and the nature of the Boundless is
considered entirely subservient to the
nature of the Bounded and the su
preme Unity the cause of all things.
And God produced Matter from the
materiality of the separated essence,
which being of a vivific nature, the
Demiurgus took it, and fabricated
from it the harmonious and imper
turbable spheres: but the dregs of
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
286 HERMETIC FRAOMENTS.
ta y p .to» a i-n js, t l ; tA yfWTjn* it he employed in the fabrication of
xai <p§apru a-upund SiexoV- generated and perishable bodies.—
prjirf. Jambl. sect. viii. c. 2. 3.
FROM THE MODERN HERMETIC BOOKS. "
Aofa n a v r m o S e o ( , xai
&(7s», xai <pil(Uf b e ta . 'A p y h
t u t oyrvv S & eof, xai o Novf,
xai fj tp im f, xai ?X>j, xai
ivep yela , xa) i u a y w j, xai
TeXof, xai avavfV'tnj. T
H»
yap(Txoto{ atteipm iv afivtr<rtp,
xai SSup, xai irvevpia Xorrov
vocpcv Buvcz/xd, oxra X ao.
'A vefori t-f <p5f ayiov, xai
in a y t] u p ' a/xpip fypaj ov-
ataLf a r o ty e ia .
The glory of all things is God, and
Deity, and divine Nature. The prin
ciple of all things existing is God,
and the Intellect, and Nature, and
Matter, and Energy, and Fate, and
Conclusion, and Renovation. For
there were boundless Darkness in
the abyss, and water, and a subtile
spirit, intellectual in power, existing
in Chaos. But the holy Light broke
forth, and the elements were pro
duced from among the sand of a
watery essence.—Serm. Sac. lib. iii.
FROM HORAPOLLO.
Aoxc< y a p airroTf o xotTpuf
m n e r r a v a i ex re to u a p a e-
vixov xai dqXvxou. ’Exl Se
tTff ’A S ij x o j t o » x a v S a p o v ,
in i 8e 'H<pa!aTov ro> ytiira
ypeupcvm . OJtoi y a p fxwot
& e u v trap' ai/Toi{apirevoSyketf
ita p y p u r w .
The world appears to them (tljp
Egyptians) to consist of a masculine
and feminine nature. And they en
grave a scarabaeus for Athena, and a
vulture for Hephaestus. For these
alone of all the Gods they consider as
both male and female in their nature.
Digitized by
h e r m e t ic f r a g m e n t s . 287
FROM CH^EREM ON.
Xaifrrjfjj^y pcey yap xai cl
aXXoi, oi& aXXo 71 Trpl tSx
cpwpUyuy xirpcuy yyovyrai, (v
apXV Xoyay Tide/Mvoi toI;
A lyvnlvy. o£$* aXAot; &cov;
tX7jv t£» itkaarrpiSy Xtycpctyuv,
xat -ruy avfXTc'hrjpovyroiy roy
iJaSiaxoy, xai ?troi tsvtoi; xa-
fayaTc'XXovo-1. Taf t« fl;
Toiif Stxayov; Tiftaj, xa! rut/;
kcyo/xfyovf xparaiolf riyc/Acyaf.
u» roc iyi/xara iy rcif icXft«-
yi^iaxs?; tftiptrac, xai
xc7ai xa&5y, xai tivaTeXai,
xai 8i/(T<i{, xai fuXkcyray crtj-
|»iw ci(. 'Eupa yap r d f Toy
r[kicy Zvjpuovpyoy tpapctyovf, xai
t& crcpi roy "Oripty xai Tr,y
“liny xai TayTa; rot/; icpacrc-
xot/f pufoovf, f; (!( rov( iarepaf
xai T&; rotSruy <pdva(if xai
xpvtpdf’ xai fiiToXa; IXit-
Topttyovf" ri (!( ra f Tyjf afXij-
yi); aifij«<{ xai jatt£<rei;' ^
(If rrjy rev yklov roprfau rj t o
y( yxnnepiyby yipua'ipaipi'oy, $ t o
ypupiyoy, y roy y t xora/MV'
xai oXa>; nayra e\f l a <
pvnxu.,
xai oOSey ri; aaapuitod; xai
S£u<ra; oirlocf (pufjcchoyraf.
Tfly oi xXeiau; xai to 7^>’ ij/uy
lx Trjf ray aaropciy anyway
Chaeremon and others believe that
nothing existed prior to the sensible
worlds, and they place among the
foremost of such opinions the senti
ments of the Egyptians, who hold
that there are no other gods than
those which are called the planets,
and the constellations of the Zodiac,
and such as these. They say, also,
that the honours paid to the ten great
gods and those which are called
heroes, whose names appear in the
almanacks, are nothing else than
charms for the cure of evils, and ob
servations of the risings and settings
of the stars, and prognostications of
future events. For it seems that they
esteem the Sun to be the demiurgus,
and hold that the legends about Osiris
and Isis, and all other their mytho
logical fables, have reference either
to the stars, their appearances and
occultations, and the periods of their
risings, or to the increase and de
crease of the moon, or to the cycles of
the sun, or the diurnal and nocturnal
hemispheres, or to the river: in short,
that every thing of the kind relates
merely to physical operations, and
has no connexion or reference what
ever to incorporeal and living es
sences properly so called. Most of
Digitized by L . o o Q i e
2 8 8 HERM ETIC FRAGMENTS.
xunj<
r(N
(, o£x 018’ S
tu( ita-- them, also, suppose that some in-
poif ixfootf ixArpty, 1 /1 ti- dissoluble connexion exists between
H
aff/Ltyriv "htymxri, narcot xa- our concerns and the motions of the
ToStjiravTtf, xa) narca too- stars, by a kind of necessity which
roif iyaiparct; to7< Stoi(. they call Destiny, whereby all sub-
ovru \vrfjfai tei^a/ycew|{ lunary things are connected with
fjdvov$, irct U
foT( tta) loavon, these gods, and depend upon them,
xod Totf aX
X
o<( Stpamtvowri. Hence they serve and honour them
with temples and statues and the like,
as the only beings capable of in
fluencing Destiny.—Ecu. Pr. Evan.
iii. c. 4.
Digitized by ( j O O Q l e
ORPHIC FRAGMENTS.
FROM ORPHEUS.*
Zct/$ vpuroq 'yevcTo* Z€V$ vararos apxi**p
Zci>$ K€<pot\ri' Zct< /xcVcra, 8* ^x icavra TCTuxxai.
Zct>$ ap<rrjv ycvtro' Zct/$ atpSiTOS'^ titkcro tv/jupvi*
Zci>{ vvSfAvjv, ]£ y&fa T€ xai ofyavou affTcpoarros'
(Z(i/{ rryoii) 'ffayTwv’ § Zfl$ axccixarov vvpbf opfxr,9
Zci/f novrov p ^a ’ Ztvq J}aio$ ^8c O'cA^wj*)
Zcv$ jSacnAet^’ Zct/$ at5ro$|| a7rayr&>y apr/jyiv&'fon*
*Ey y-pdioq, «?$ 8ai/xa>v *yey€TO, pU yaf ap%oq a ic a rrw .
*Ey 8c 8cfxas (3a<ri\€io*, it $ ra8e tra vra xtncXc?raj,
Ilfy, xa) vhccp, xa) ycua, xai alSrjp, vv( tc xai yj/xap,
Ka) MSJtk npuToq yevcTup, xai *Ep&
>$ 'TroXuTCpxijf.
IlavTa -yap ^y [X€ya\tp Zvjvbq Ta8e rapaTi xcrraj.
Tot/ Stjtoi x€(paXyjv fx*v 18c*y xai xaXa npta-una.
OCpaths auyXrjeis, ot ca* a pupis tZreipai,
"Aarput fxapfxapeut 7rcpjxaXXcc$ rjep&ovTai.
• Eusebius and Proclus omit the fifth and sixth verses between the paren
theses. Aristotle places the fourth before the third.
*
f* a/xBpOTO; Aristot. Stob.
X kip)* Stob.
§ Herm. proposes luf/uSn.
|| ipyhi Aristot.
Proc. has also Zijrfcs 8’ It) y a r ttp t otp^a xtQ uxtt.
V 1
*
Digitized by G o o g l e
290 ORPHIC FRAGM ENTS.
Tavpea S’ apuporepuSe Wo j^pilireia ripara.
’AftoXA) t« $tlm< re Sleuj H o t o vp a v iu vu v.
"Oft.ua.Ta 8’
t
j
c
'
X
i
o
'
(re, xa! a vrltw a a * ?(.Ky\frn
NoD< he ye dtpeiidlft, pariKrjief atpSirot cu&rjp.
Zeus is the first. Zeus the thunderer, is the last.
Zeus is the head. Zeus is the middle, and by Zeus all things
were fabricated.
Zeus is male, Immortal Zeus is female.
Zeus is the foundation of the earth and of the starry heaven.
Zeus is the breath of all things. Zeus is the rushing of inde
fatigable fire.
Zeus is the root of the sea: He is the sun and moon.
Zeus is the king ; He is the author of universal life;
One Power, one Daemon, the mighty prince of all things:
One kingly frame, in which this universe revolves,
Fire and water, earth and ether, night and day,
And Metis (Counsel) the primeval father, and all-delightful
Eros (Love).
All these things are united in the vast body of Zeus.
Would you behold his head and his fair face,
It is the resplendent heaven, round which his golden locks
Of glittering stars are beautifully exalted in the air.
On each side are the two golden taurine horns,
The risings and settings, the tracks of the celestial gods;
His eyes the sun and the opposing moon;
His unfallacious Mind the royal incorruptible Ether.
E u s. P r. E v . I I I .— Proc. T im .— A risto t. de M und.
* H eringa proposes inTou/yoDira.
Digitized by L.ooQle
ORPHIC FRAGM ENTS. 291
FROM ORPHEUS.
IlfU T a p ly dpy^alov XdeO f p e X a v r^ a r o y Cpyov,
'0 ( ix d p e n \* (pvaeii;, S f t ’ oipa*o( l( T fp a ( J)X&£*
rSj< r’ eipvarepyov yevetriv, m id p e y a r e d a \d < m ]('
n p e r fitr a r & y re xal auroTcXj aoXilpririy " E p v r a ,
‘Oerira t ’ etpvrey a ra v ra , iiixptye 8" aXXov aXAoit.
K o l K p n W alvoXenjv, S( r ‘ {<; Ala repmxlpavvoy
^ H X u ^ x ddayaruy pattaptiw j9aanXif»'o< d.pyr:.
First I sung the obscurity of ancient Chaos,
How the Elements were ordered, and the Heaven reduced to
bound;
And the generation of the wide-bosomed Earth, and the depth
of the Sea,
And Eros (Love) the most ancient, self-perfecting, and of mani
fold design;
How he generated all things, and parted them from one another.
And I have sung of Cronus so miserably undone, and how the
kingdom
Of the blessed Immortals descended to the thunder-loving Zeus.
A r g . 419.
FROM ORPHEUS.
|1»- 'A p ya lo v p e y x p S r a Xaot){ d p e y a p top* dyovyyrpy
Kal Kpovoy, o( iXoyei>trev dxeipealourty ixf> oXxolV'f'
A ld e p a , xal hirptfij irepioaea, xvJpox"E p tira
N v x r i f d tyyyrjriif v d r e p a xAi/rov %y p a Q dyrjra
'O aXorepot ndX eow n J j9por«5, erpSrof y a p t y d y d y '
IT B p ip o vf r evtivydroit y o v d f, e p ya d fStjX a
T riyeytvy, ol Xvypiy l x ' O ipayov la r a ia n r o
* M y p u fte y Al. f i r u f i a h n uirl x lX x oif Al.
X•xXriKmat Al.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
292 ORPHIC FRAGMENTS.
iz ip u a yotnrjf to orpoV&cx, oAcx y{vo( l£eytyoxto
© xijtSx, oi w t s ya7ay dvtC pnn at’cx c a a i.
First (I have sung) the vast necessity of ancient Chaos,
And Cronus, who in the boundless tracts brought forth
The Ether, and the splendid and glorious Eros of a two-fold
nature,
The illustrious father of night, existing from eternity.
Whom men call Phanes, for he first appeared.
I have sung the birth of powerful Brimo (Hecate), and the un
hallowed deeds
Of the earth-born (giants), who showered down from heaven
[Their blood,jthe lamentable seed of generation, from whence
sprung
The race of mortals, who inhabit the boundless earth for ever.
Arg. v. 12.
FROM HESIOD.
H t o i jttcx z p u T u r r a Xdo( y i v e r , a i r dp cirtrra
raj” tipv& Ttpvof, z d v r u y c8o{ d<r<pa\cj aid,
(’ASmotii* of iy p v it i zdpi) yupotyzof ’OXv/xxov)
T a p r a p a r* rjip ittn a evpvobciTtf,
’H8’ “Epof, 0{ xdXXurro; tv d d a v d n ia - i S to ia i,
Awtja<X)( 7
rdvTwv Tt SreSy z a v r u y r ' d y S p u zu y
Ad/xvaTai Iv r r y d e a m tin t xa! inlcppova fiovXyy.
’Ex Xd«{ 8
’ ’Epe(3o( t t , jxcXaixd t c Nfcf iy tv o x t o .
N v x T o f 8* aZr’ A I S ijj) t c x a < 'Hpitpuj i^ ty ty m n o ,
O i( T e x t xmrtra/xcxoj, ’U p tfia (^i Xo't i j t i p iy c itr a
T aT a 8c t o i z p £ tov puy iy tiy a r o Itrav ia v rrj
Oipay'oy d<rrcfocx&’, fxa uiv orcpi z d y r a xaXwrro,.
Chaos was generated first, and then
The wide-bosomed Earth, the ever stable seat of all
The Immortals that inhabit the snowy peaks of Olympus,
And the dark aerial Tartarus in the depths of the permeable
Earth,
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
ORPHIC FRAGMENTS. 293
And Eros, the fairest of the immortal Gods,
That relaxes the strength of all, both gods and men,
And subjugates the mind and the sage will in their breasts.
From Chaos were generated Erebus and black Night,
And from Night again were generated Ether and Day,
Whom she brought forth, having conceived from the embrace of
Erebus.
And Earth first produced the starry Heaven equal to herself,
That it might inclose all things around herself.
Theog. v. 116.
FROM ARISTOPHANES.
X uap tjy tta 1N tf "E ptfiip t( fMKap vpuTOV x a l Tdpncapap tvpvp'
r? S' oSS’'Ayjp o
v
S
* Oupavop tjv‘ 'EptjSovp 8’ iv dattlpofft xoKitoip
T ik t o arpuTitrrot* vacrpt/juay N tf rj pttAavoarrtpap urn,
'E £ oZ ntptztKKoftAvaup u p a if t ^ a m v “Epup o voduyap,
St/X/Swv y £ n v antpvyoiy yjpvaaiy tittup d y tu u K tr i Ytyaip.
Q lrop St X a t t m zepoevzi p u y ttp ’f m y yp tta z ii T a p za p o v tvpvv
’E v iiz z tu a rtt ytvap fipttztpay, xai itp u r ay u r q y a y ty ip + (pup.
Xlpbztpav S’ aim yp ytvap a S sa va zu y , apply “Epup iw tfu lp tv § a x a v z a '
B,vjJ-p-tywp.tvuv 8’ iz tp u v iztpatp y t v t z ’ O ipavop, ’ilxta v b p r e ,
Kat r?, acdvruv r t S tu v ptattdpuy ytvap cupSlizav.
First was Chaos and Night, and black Erebus and vast Tartarus;
And there was neither Earth, nor Air, nor Heaven: but in the
boundless bosoms of Erebus,
Night, with her black wings, first produced an aerial egg,
From which, at the completed time, sprang forth the lovely Eros,
Glittering with golden wings upon his back, like the swift whirl
winds.
But embracing the dark-winged Chaos in the vast Tartarus,
• x p v ro» Athenaeun. f p u yiiU Suid.
1 ill Suid. § jv tip u ^ n Suid. Brunck.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
294 ORPHIC FRAGMENTS.
He begot our race (the birds), * and first brought us to light.
The race of the Immortals was not, till Eros mingled all things
together;
But when the elements were mixed one with another, Heaven
was produced, and Ocean,
And Earth, and the imperishable race of all the blessed Gods.
Aristop. Aves. 698.—Suid. v. Chaos.
FROM ORPHEUS.
\ d o ( " f x al fA ty a y d .r u a . n e X u p iw t ySla x ai tv& a.
Chaos and a vast yawning chasm on every side.
Tay.
Ma ia S tS v intaTq, Nef duSpoT f, trup TaSe <ppd^(
IIS f x r i P d B a y d r u y u p f f l y tc p a re p o ip p o y a S l c a S a i ;
AlScpi iraxra v fp i( d<
pdts> XaSe, S’
h ) jjUaaip
OCpavSJ -------
“ Maia, supreme of Gods, Immortal Night, tell me this,
How shall I constitute the magnanimous first principles of the
Immortals ?”
“ Surround all things with ineffable Ether, and place them
In the mid Heaven.”
Proc. Tim. 63.
ORPHIC HYMN TO PROTOGONUS.
Tlptnoyiyw xaXew, bupvyj, jixtyay, aiSepiitAixyxTov,
’Cloyoyrj, y jiT ta ia iy sSyaXXo/xcvoy vrepijyeaGiv,
TavpuTtw, § ytvtfjiv piaxdpay 5vrjr2y t aySpuntuy,
• This cosmogony is delivered by the Birds in the comedy so called, and in
this line they claim the priority of birth before the god9 as well as men.
t Lob. suggests KSrip. J Simplicius has OipcaSy.
§ Tavpe/S&tv Al.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
ORPHIC FRAGMENTS. 295
<Puq To noXv/Ayy/iTToy, TtoAvopyttv 'HpixenaToy' *
“Affarov, Kfwpion ptifyrtpa, otapupaff tpyoj.
‘Oa-o-wy'f' o{ <ntoT»e<r<ray amuxailpoxraf epj'xXqr
IlayTij 8iyi)&ci{ irrepryaiy pinout Kara xotrpoy,
Aapirpoy Ayuv <peu( dyyly, ok^’ oS vf ayijTa xixXijtxm
’H8e Tlplrpnoy araxT a, xal ’Ayrairyijy J lAixonoy
*AXXa /Aetnap ercXt/pi)Ti, woAi/mroff, jSaiyf ytyy/Suf
’E{ TfXeTijy ay'iay otoXwto/iaXoy ipyicnpayzai;.
I invoke Protogonus, ofa double nature, great, wandering througli
the ether,
Egg-bom, rejoicing in thy golden wings,
Having the countenance of a bull, the procreator of the blessed
gods and mortal men,
The renowned Light, the far-celebrated Ericepaeus,
Ineffable, occult, impetuous, all-glittering strength ;
Who scatterest the twilight clouds of darkness from the eyes,
And roamest throughout the world upon the flight of thy wings,
Who bringest forth the pure and brilliant light, wherefore I in
voke thee as Phanes,
As Priapus the king, and as dazzling fountain of splendour.
Come, then, blessed being, full of wisdom and generation, come
in joy
To thy sacred, ever-varying mystery. Be present with the
Priests of thy Orgies.
FROM ORPHEUS.
IlfUTeyoyor ye per offri; inthpam ey updaA puiioiy
El pij Ni>J leprj poifyij' ol 8’ aXXo< a n a y z tt
0ai/pa£cr xaSoptSyTet ly alSepi <peyyof aeXirroy"
Toioy d n e trr p a m e y xpoot a&ayaroio <£ayi)T0(.
* 'Os Ti w
o
A
u
ju
n
iO
T
O
y, sroKui^yioy iupi]Xi H
altty. Vulg.
f *0aowy AI. J ayravyr! AI.
Digitized by T o o e l e
2 9 6 ORPHIC FRAGMENTS.
No one has seen Protogonus with his eyes
Except the sacred Night alone : all others
Wondered when they beheld in the Ether the unexpected Light
Such as the skin of the immortal Phanes shot forth.
Hermias in Phced. 141.
FROM O R P H E U S .*
“E j t i attfp i£ iS c to ’Op-
<pti< T a v ra . " O n i£ dp%rj(
d v e irip fii) rip x p iv y "f" o A lSrjp,
d n i tov 0 t o v &qpumpyifit({‘
x al i m v S i y KpxeTSey tov
A lStpof ijjv X®«{, x a l N v f
^apepa J n d tn a f § xaTei%«
x a l ixdX vnre T a i n i tov A 1-
Slipa' <n\y.n.lvuv t yjy yiys.no. i r p o -
Tfvftv 11' fipipHuf iy t j a iro v
iyi& ioa, dxaTaX tjxrov Tiya,
xal n dsnay vttipnanov isvai, x al
nptr/fyiontpm 81x a l Sijyuiovpyoy
ana vn a y, x al tov A lS ep tf a i-
tov x al N vxtoj, x al n d -
<r>
i< ntj( ino T o y A l^ipa. otsnjf
What Orpheus has asserted upon
the subject is as follows: “ From the
beginning the Ether was manifested in
time,”evidentlyhavingbeen fabricated
,by God: “ and on every side of the
Ether was the Chaos; and gloomy
Night enveloped and obscured all
things which were under the Ether.”
by attributing to Night a priority, he
intimates the explanation to be, that
there existed an incomprehensible
nature, and a being supreme above
all others, and pre-existing, the demi-
urgus of all things, as well of the
Ether itself (and of the night) as of
all the creation which existed and was
* I have given this fragm ent from Malala, in whose text it appears to be less
corrupted. I t was originally preserved by Timotheus, who has evidently en
deavoured to explain it upon Christian principles. His parenthetical explanations
have been considered as part of the Orphic text, and been the cause of its obscurity.
W ithout tam pering with the text, I have endeavoured to restore it in the transla
tion to its original purity. It is, doubtless, the same passage from the theogony
of Orpheus, commented upon by Damascius. See infra,
f Ced.— Suid. omits it.
X <
po(3ipa. Suid.
§ Q y. ?rdvra—wirra 8« Ced.
(| icQQTiQtfaiv Ced. Suid—wpwrtCuv is proposed in Ox. Ed.
f Omitted by Ced.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
ORPHIC FRAGM ENTS. 297
xa\ kaXvjrrOjuenjt xrfoeu'c**
rrjv fcc fijv elmv inih rov <nco-
tov$ dopatov <
H
<
ra»% t(ppa<re
he, on t o <&5$, prison t o v A*-
Sepa, iifitoTitre rrjv r ? v , ’j"
x a ) xdaav Ttjv xxitriy* e\xuv,
ixeTvo eivai t o t o p
rrjf a v
t o v Afoepa, t o v xpoeipr\[/.evoy,
t o ixepxaxov xdvxuv' ov ovoixot
o avT of ’Op(p(V$ axovaaq ix
t $}$ [Aavxeiaq €Jenrc /w} T*va J
(pavai, xd, epixexeu, (MrjTiV,
Qdvnjxa, ’HpixexaTov,) oirep fy-
[xvjveverai rrj xotynj y'Auaa’rj,
BovXrj, &>$, Zcoohoxyp. E*-
xdv iv rrj airrov cx&ca’ei rd f
avxdf rpe7( defaf ray ovo/xd-
ruv hvvdfxeiq, fxtav elyai hvva-
[xiv x a i xpctxoq § t o u [xovov
&eov, ov oCBe*? op^T , ? < r tiv o $
hwau.ecof ovhei$hvvaxai yvuvai
€tS/av||f T
; (piaiv. *e£ airyp
he rrjf hvyaueuq rd xavxa ye-
yenjaSai, xai dpxd$ a<ra-
[xccrovi, xai YjAiov xat aeXyvvjv,
concealed under the Ether. More
over he says, “ The Earth was in
visible on account of the darkness:
but the Light broke through the
Ether, and illuminated the Earth and
all the material of the creation sig
nifying by this Light, which burst
forth through the Ether, the before-
mentioned being .who was supreme
above all things: “ and its name,”
which Orpheus learnt from the oracle,
“ is Metis, Phanes, Ericepaeus,” which
in the common Greek language may
be translated will (or counsel), light,
life-giver; signifying,when explained,
that these three powers of the three
names are the one power and strength
of the only God, whom no one ever
beheld, and of whose power no one
can have an idea or comprehend the
nature. “ By this power all things
were produced, as well incorporeal
principles as the sun and moon, and
their influences, and all the stars, and
the earth and the sea, and all things
* Ced. substitutes for this sentence xal ailroutoo A&
ipos xa) irivrw* tw» wjt’
ocurlv a SSpa.— Suidas omits it altogether.
f Ced. omits r»)> yijv.
X M?tis (oxtp ipurivtiirai jfiouAJj) $d>s, Zwolor^p. Ced.— Suidas has nothing
more than *Omp wv6/xaa%BouA»)v 4>a5* Za^v.— In the Oxford edition of Malala it is
translated, “ Orpheus ex oraculo edoctus edixit, Neminem effort: Ericepeo. quod
vulgari idiomatc signat nobis Consilium, Lumen, Vitae datorem .” The correction
in the parenthesis, proposed by Bentley, is evidently the true reading.
^ Ka) *» xpi.ros vot5ra»v © i Ced.— Ka) «> x^aTos to0 A»jyU<ouoyov nitraiv ©tot/,
Suid.
|| !$/av, Ced.— Suidas omits this and the following sentences, and substitutes
.............©«ou tou x iv x a lx rou /z>j ovros xotpayayirroi tU rl that, o/jara r« xa\
&
6
p
a
rax
ua
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
298 ORPHIC FRAGMENTS.
i £ o v a l a ( , xai a m pa. n a n a
xai yrjv xai BdXaaaav, Ta
opupuva it a&rotf •naurra xai
ta dipara. To Si rov av-
Spor*ov* tl«» Sir’ aCxoS rol
e«o2 t X c u r d J r r a lx yijf x a i
'fa 'X ’l* b e ’ a v r o v X a p u y r a ’
f
Ijrftxry xaAtlf Muayj( I la r-
aotpof if€ & « to T a ir a .
that are visible and invisible in them.
And man,” says he, “ was formed
by this God out of the earth, and en
dued with a reasonable soul,” in like
manner as Moses has revealed.-—
J. Malala, p. 89— Ced.— Suidas v.
Orpheus.
FROM ORPHEUS.:
Mifriv ffircp p ia tp lp tr r a &t£v x X v r'c v , ty r e Q a y r p n
U p u a iy a y o y p u ix a p e f xoXto» x a r d p ta x p ly “O k u p n o v .
Metis bearing the seed of the Gods, whom the blessed
Inhabitants of Olympus call Phanes Protogonus.
In Crat.
Ka* v p S r o f y tv tr u p x a i * E p u ( m \ v r e p n j ( .
And Metis, the first father, and all-delightful Eros.
In Tim. II. 102.
’AjSpsf*Epu< x a i Mijrrf i r d a B a h tf.
Soft Eros and inauspicious Metis.
Ih. 181.
Mrjrif tr s ip p a tp tp tr r a SrriSr, x X tn iy ‘H p tx e a a T c y .
Metis bearing the generation of the Gods, illustrious Ericepaeus.
Ih.
• TU I l a 5 ( 6 n n yf»o». Ced. Suid. There are some other variations of less
consequence.
f For AajSfrro.
1 These four fragments are preserved by Produs.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
ORPHIC FRAGM ENTS. 299
FROM ORPHEUS.
T o ia E ra 'O pipeif h h e U -
WTCU, 1C(f) TOW $aW )T0$ & fo-
Acywv* itp a zo f yovv i &eo; Tragi’
a v z S X^oiuv xe<pa\a$ (pepei oroX-
Xa$ x a l la$ , r avplovf, oiplai;*
X a pm ov T f \e o rro f, x a l n p i-
tUTlV a 710 TOO TipulTOyttOVi toov,
f* f <
T
T
C
tp
fA
.a
Z
l*
Z
f T
O 5«0V
1<TTI.
Orpheus has the following theo
logical speculation in allusion to
Phanes. Therefore the first God
bears with himself the heads of ani
mals, many and single, of a bull, of a
serpent, and of a fierce lion, and
they sprung from the primeval egg in
which the animal is seminally con
tained.
Proc. in Tim.
FROM THE ANCIENT THEOLOGISTS.
'OS/eoXoyof x p u v xal rail- The theologist places around him
pov xal X torrof xal hpaxovro; the heads of a ram, a bull, a lion, and
air$ TKpni$(t(xe(pakd(. Kal a dragon, and assigns him first both
t» avrcp icpirtip to 6rj\v xal the male and female sex.
ajijSex.
0 rj\v e xal yeyezeip xparepof 6 e h ( ’HpixaTraioj.
Female and Father is the mighty god Ericapseus.
ACrf he xal al orrepvyep To him also the wings are first
vpurov. given.
Proc. in Tim.
* Lobeck supposes that the following was the original: KfioOxal Tort/(ou r ’,
•<
P‘0(, yetQQiro0t i \iorrof.
Digitized by Google
OJU’HIC FRAGMENTS.
jJO
O
FROM THE ANCIENT THEOLOGISTS.*
'EwiVoi y a p Nv'xta pniyxa! They, the theologists, assert that
Oip a U v <pa<n fiaaiM ijeiy xal Night and Heaven (Ouranus) reigned,
irpo t o v t u v joy pcyto-Toy avrZn and before these their most mighty
n a -rtp a . father.
T
o~o»'j' l\a y Sieyei/xe ieoif SnjT
oiiri re Koapuiy
Oj TtpuTOf (3aa!\(v<re n tp U X vro f ’H pixcnaTof.
Who distributed the world to Gods and Mortals,
Over which he first reigned, the illustrious Ericepaeus,
M
efl’ m ( Ntf, After whom reigned Night,
ExyirTpoy e^oi/o-’ iy yyps'iv apmpcicif^. ’H
pixctraiov,
Having in her hands the excellent sceptre of Ericepaeus,
M(6’ rjy o OCpay'if, After whom Heaven (Ouranus),
'Of vpZnof j3a<r!\ev<re 6euy pyerd jX ftip a Nt/ara.
Who first reigned over the Gods after his mother Night.
FROM THE ANCIENT THEOLOGISTS.
Postremopotentiam So
lis ad omnium potestatem
summitatemque referri,
indicant theologi; qui in
sacrishoc brevissimapre-
catione demonstrant, di-
centes.
"HXie iravTO xpaTO ji, xoapyov
it v t v u a , xaa-piov h vva p U f, xoV-
plOV <pSf.
In short, that to the power of the
Sun is to be referred the control and
supremacyofall things, is indicated by
the theologists, who make it evident
in the mysteries by the following
short invocation.
Oh, all-ruling Sun, Spirit of the
world, Power of the world, Light of
the world.—Macrob. Sat. lib. i. c. 23.
* This extract from a MS. of Syrianus is given by Lobeck, Aglaophamus I.
577, and a translation of it with the Orphic lines from a MS. of Gale, was first
given by Mr. Taylor, Class. Jour. XVII. 163.
f Gal.—Tov t i y Lob. J Omitted by Gale.
Digitized by L x O O Q l e
PYTHAGOREAN FRAGMENTS.
FROM TIM^US LOCRUS.
T/jm aioi o Aoxpoi; TaSe e<pa‘
8w a lria t; elftev r a y av/tireiy-
ray" Now ftey, r a y ta r c t Xryoy
yiyyofteyav" 'k v d y w z y 81, i u y
Pit/. xaTxi; S v y a u tif r a y tra-
[ta ra v . ro vtcu v St, tov jte y, Ta(
r a y a 6 u * <pv<rto; elftev, 0 e lv
r e In fta lve irB a i, &p%av r e r a y
aplcrruy* ra 8 enafttvd r e xa<
r v y a ln a ., e)( 'k v a y v u tv a v a y e -
<r6ai. ret 81 fuftirayra, ’I8fay,
*TXay AltrflijToy T t, oToyexyoyoy
ro vreu y. x ai to ftey, elftev
a y e v a Toy re x ai axiyaToy, xai
ptevov r e , x a i r a { to i! t5 ip v -
rto$, voarov r e x ai irapdfieiyfta
r a y yevvaftevuv, oxo'tra ly ixe-
ra fio X p evri. TOiotTOy t i
Tay ’iSf’ay \eye< r9al r e x ai
yoeTrSai. r a y S’^TXay, ey.u a -
yeToy x a i ftetrepet, riQ dvav re
Thus says Timaeus the Locrian.—
-
The causes of all things are two; In
tellect, ofthose whichareproduced ac
cording to Reason; and Necessity, of
thosewhichnecessarilyexistaccording
to the powers of bodies. Ofthese the
first is of the nature of good, and is
called God, the principle of such
things as are most excellent. Those
which are consequent, and concauses
rather than causes, may be referred
to Necessity, and they consist of Idea
or Form, and Matter, to which may
be added the Sensible (world), which
is as it were the offspring of these two.
The first of these is an essence un
generated, immoveable, and stable,
of the nature of Same, and the in
telligible exemplar of things gene
rated which are in a state of per
petual change: and this is called Idea
* Tayo&wv Al.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
302 PYTHAGOREAN FRAGMENTS.
x a i y tv y a x ix d y tIpLcy xa< t pt-
x a ( o la to f' it^a fA fy a y y a p TO
iu.oiuiAa.Ta fi{ la v x d y , x a i «lov
ava/xafa^vav.tbroTfAcIWav-
t a * T o ytyyduuxT a. T a vT a y
i t Tav *TXay aiSiov tAty etp a ,
ov ptav a xivaxov' aptoptpoy 'j' Sf
xafi' a v x a v x a i daxflfA dntaxoy,
$f%o/Aeyay 8e vchrav jAOptptiy.
Tciy St irtp'i x a a u p ta x a , [At-
puTTOCV ttfA(V) Ktu T a ( B a x ip u
(pvaoi;. xoxayopovovxi 8e t s v
“TX av, toVov x a i x u p a y . Avo
uy a i 8« a p x a '‘ Iv a v x la t c v ti. ov
TC ^ity kISo^ Xoyoy c^c* a/Sfevo(
t c x a i v a x p o f’ d 8’ *T X a, BrjXtbf
xe x a i /Aarepof. x p lx a Sc c7/xcv,
t o ix xovxuv exyova. T p la St
ovTa, Tpior yyu p i^txB a i" x d y
ftcv’lS eav, yorp xa.x’(T uaTdptay'
to v 8’“TA av, koyur/Au yoBtp, i S
fA^Tu x o t ’ tvBvupiav voeTaBai,
aA A a x o t* d va A oylay. x a 8’
a v o y o n d p ta x a , alaB r/aei x a i
8o£p. IIpiv wv upavrn y ty e a B a i,
A oyp rjux^y ’l 8co r e x a i “T A a,
x a i o 0eo{ iapuovpyof x u |ScA-
r/oyof. firci W to Tipea^vxepoy
xd}pov la x ) x S ye u xlp u , x a i
to xexaypteyoy itpo x u d x d x x o ,
a y a B o f uy o 9 e o (, opuv tc to v
“TX av Str e a t y av Tav ’IStay x a i
aXXoioi//«vav, ita yxo iu f pily,
a T a x T a ( 8c , ^8cit’ to£iv
or Form, anti is to be comprehended
only by Mind. But Matter is the
receptacle of Form, the mother and
female principle of the generation of
the third essence, for, by receiving
the likenesses upon itself, and being
stamped with Form, it perfects all
things, partaking of the nature of
generation. And this Matter, he
says, is eternal, moveable, and of its
own proper nature, without form or
figure, yet susceptible of receiving
every form : it is divisible also about
bodies, and is of the nature of Differ
ent. They also call Matter, Place and
Situation. These two, therefore, are
contrary principles: Idea or Form is
of the nature of Male and Father;
but Matter of the nature of Female
and Mother : and things which are of
the third nature are the offspring of
the two. Since then there are three na
tures, they are comprehended in three
different ways; Idea, which is the
object ofscience, by Intellect; Matter,
which is not properly an object of
comprehension, but only of analogy,
by a spurious kind of reasoning; but
things compounded of the two are
the objects of sensation, and opinion
or appearance. Therefore, before the
heaven was made, there existed in
reality Idea, and Matter, and God
the demiurgus of the better nature;
• raSt Al. f Afx6g<pwrov AI.
Digitized by Google
PYTHAGOREAN FRAGM ENTS. 303
atray aycv, xa.) i t dtphrruy and since the nature of Elder (Con-
/MTapo\dy, ei( upurfxeyay xa- tinuance) is more worthy than that of
T
C
N
T
T
C
K
rai. »’ ifui\oyot rai Younger (Novelty,) and Order than
liaxplireif rSy a-upuiTuy yiy~ of Disorder; God in his goodness
yuyto, xal *ar‘ atropumty seeing that Matter was continually
ipotiaf 8e%
oi»To. ixclijaty m receiving Form and changing in an
ro'vSt t» •/Aa'uov andrat; omnifarious and disordered manner,
Ta^'T/tac, fy°y airly xaraa-- undertook to reduce it to order and
wvd£a< T«{ tw wrof <ptaio{ put a stop to its indefinite changes,
2>a to ndtna rdxka iy atrip by circumscribing it with determinate
« (iM
Xfv, tva, iMiycytyvj, r i \ - figure: that there might be corre-
f ejAifwxiy re xa'i \uyixiy‘ sponding distinctions of bodies, and
(xpetmtya yap rate dyptxu that it might not be subject to con-
xa) dxiyu irriy) xa) aipai- tinual variations of its own accord.
pectSef <rSfia' reXtiorepoy yap Therefore he fabricated this world
royoKKuy axupux-cuyrpi tovto. out of all the matter, and constituted
uy apto-Toy yeyya/xa it the boundary of essential nature,
iteieTy, rovroy imlei Belv yey- comprising all things within itself,
vhtok, ovnoxa rp8apri<
ri/Aeyoy one, only-begotten, perfect, with a
in' aXKv a'nia, etee rS airly Soul and Intellect (for an animal so
trvyreray/xeya} ©t5, el oroxa constituted is superior to one de-
ty'MTo airly bakuey. void of Soul and Intellect): he gave
it also a spherical body, for such of all
other forms is the most perfect. Since,
therefore, it was God’s pleasure to
render this his production most per
fect, he constituted it a God, gene
rated indeed, but indestructible by
any other cause than by the God who
made it, in case it should be his
pleasure to dissolve it.
Digitized by Google
304 PYTHAGOREAN FRAGM ENTS.
FROM PLATO.
4*
1
7
$yap h
yjxerra tov ixAvov You say that, in my former dis-
\oyoy oix •*«»«<aTroSeSeix®
0
" course, I have not sufficiently ex
tra* mp\ t vj$ tov irpuTov tj>
u- plained to you the nature of the
<
rtu<
’ tppaa-Tfw 8>
j tro* 8*
’ First. I purposely spoke enigma-
amyptuy" V ay t* t/ SsXto; ?j tically, that in case the tablet should
iro'vT
ot/fj yfn iv i v a O r , , have happened with any accident,
o dvayvol< jt/ij yvS. alt yap either by land or sea, a person, with-
*xci’ ntp) ToyndvTuy fixvitja out some previous knowledge of the
itdvT Itn), xa'i Ixtlyov tytxa subject, might not be able to under-
■navra" xai f'xtTvoanioy attav- stand its contents. This, then is the
t»iy t Sy xa\Sy. foiSztpoy li, explanation. About the king of all
irep) Ta itvTepa,* xai rplroy things, all things are, and all things
ircpl tA rplra. ij oly ay6pu- are on account of Him, and He is
sr/nj \fnixrj otepi aira opiytTat the cause of all good things. But the
paB tTv mV a r r a ia rrt, |SXe- second is about things of the second
novaa (/{ rd airijf trvyyeyrj, kind, and the third about things of
ay ovity Uayaq “
xe‘- toS fe
rj the third kind. Therefore the human
PaaiXeaf nipt xai ay Amy, soul, from its earnest desire to know
o i l i y t o r * to io v to . t o 8ij p u r d what these things may be, examines
to v t o $ tp^XVi»i<riy. those within itself which are akin to
them, none of which it possesses in
sufficient perfection. Such (imper
fection) however is not the case with
regard to the King and those natures
of which I spoke.—P la t. E p . I I . p.
312.
FROM PLATO.
Tov tuv Ttdvruy Qeov vjyt~ Conjuring the God of all things,
ptova Tuy Tt ovT
aiv xa* Tay the ruler of those which are, and are
* Serranus translates “ secundum ad secunda, See.”—Bekker has “ circa se
cundum secunda, &c.j” but he preserves the accentuation of the text.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
PYTHAGOREAN FRAGMENTS. 305
fiehXovTuv, t o v T f riyt/xovof x x i
ourlov TtaTepa vhpiov iirouyvv-
T a ( .
about to be, and the sovereign father
of the ruler and cause.—P la t. E p .
VI. p. 323.
F R O M A M E L IU S .
‘A ^fX io j Of t^ i t t J k * n o i c i
to v &y[*iovpyov, x a l vovf TpeTf,
fUaTIAeas T p(l(, TOV OVTOt, TOV
iftOVTCt, TOV opuvTOO. hlUCpe-
povm he c v t o i, hiOTi o ptiv
•KpuTOf v o ovt oj i; I o -t i v o l<r-
Tiv. 'O he SeuT€po$, e in t jxev,
To lv a v T f vo’
ij t o v , "yet St to
orpo a h t o v , x a l u -tr s y u irai/Ta{
eveivov, K at S tarooro hevTepo^.
'O St T p h o f, e iT i fttv to Sv
a v T u x a l o J to j i/oijtov. wav
7a o yoSv, t £ o v ^v y o S m voip-jS,
0 aoTo'v la T iv. iy e i hi to Iv
tj5 hevreptp, x a l op$5 to irp £ -
tov. otro; 7a p wXe/a) ij aicl& T a-
<r»{, to to u to to e%ov apivhpo-
Tepov. T o v t o v ^ w v to I ( Tpe~o,
voa$ x a ! hvjptovpyobf u w oti-
S tT a i, x a l to Iv iro ftt Tip
IlXaTOm Tpei( jSaorAe'av, x a l
Amelius makes the Demiurgus
triple, and the three Intellects the
three Kings—Him that exists, Him
that possesses, Him that beholds.
And these are different; therefore
the First Intellect exists essentially
as that which exists. But the Second
exists as the Intelligible in him, but
possesses that which is before him,
and partakes altogether of that,
wherefore it is the Second. But the
Third exists as the Intelligible in the
Second as did the Second in the First,
for every Intellect is the same with
its conjoined Intelligible, and it p o s
sesses that which is in the Second,
and beholds or regards that which is
the First: for by how much greater
the remove, by so much the less
intimate is that which possesses.
These three Intellects, therefore, he
• T his w ord is generally m isquoted as rg(ro», for w hich I can find no au th o rity .
T h e context o f th e discourse evidently requires T pnrlv, having before treated of
th e $<Trb» double D em iurgus o f Plotinus. T h e first four, and last five lines, con
tain th e opinion o f A m elius; th e rest is th e com m entary of Proclus. A m elius was
him self a P latonist, and th e eldest disciple o f P lotinus, though h e w rote before th e
system o f th e m odern Platonists had acquired th e celebrity given it by his
m aster.
It It
Digitized by Google
soc PYTHAGOREAN FRAGM ENTS.
r o l; n ap’ ’O p< pi~rpuf, 4>dn)Ta
xai Oipay'oy xai KpoW. xai
o p iu fa m a n a p ’ a i r S Sij-
puovpyo^, o $d«){ i n Tin.
supposes to be the Demiurgi, the
same with the three kings of Plato,
and with the three whom Orpheus
celebrates under the names of Phanes,
Ouranus, andCronus, though, accord
ing to him, the Demiurgus is more
particularly Phanes.—Proc. in Tim.
II. 93.
FROM ONOMACRITUS.
’O
wwxxpiToj e
’v to7( ’O p-
cpixoi; nvp xai SSap x a i yrjy
t t ]V n d v r u y dpxTjv clyai (/.(-
y fv .
Onomacritus, in the Orphics, says,
that Fire, and Water, and Earth, were
the first principles of all things.—
Sextus. Hyp. III. 4. 136.—Phys. IX.
5. 6. 620.
FROM ION.
* ’Apxlj S i pu>i too Xoyov,
n a n a n pla xai aAeov t'A a n -
nuv xoESf tk& aaw y n ilrccy
Tpiuy iyof ix a n r o v dptny, rpidf,
<ri/«<ri{ xai xpa-ro; xai
This, says Ion, is the beginning of
my discourse. All things are three,
and nothing more or less ; and the
virtue of each one of these three is a
triad consisting of Intellect, Power,
and Chance.
* The emendations to this passage are very numerous. I have translated it
according to Lobeck, as follows: * A p ^ a 8
« /k m t o o Arfyou T ra v T a t p [ a xai n J iio v
•u81v ov81 iXaaaoy rotrw y run rgiuh, ivbf, &c.
Digitized by G 0 0 g l e
PYTHAGOREAN FRAGMENTS. 307
FROM PHILOPONUS.
n ip fx'it x ai yyjy i riappuw -
8i;< Ix eS ’CTo" t a i t a Sf U fjc z
tcU aif<n "luv o X Io{ i rpayo-
Oon'jii't;.
Parmenides holds Fire and Earth
as primary principles: but Ion of
Chios, the tragedian, placed them
after Air.—Philoponus.
FROM PLUTARCHUS.
'H iypa <
f>
v
<
n
f apxb * “ *
clo'a TzavTuv ap-
X ni r i irpura ip ia o-upcxTa
y ijv a e p a x a i nvp imiTjofy.
The moist nature, being the first
principle and origin of all things from
the beginning made the three first
bodies, Earth, Air, and Fire.—Plut.
de Is.
FROM OCELLUS.
"Opoi fla t t p eif, r«Wi{, There are three boundaries, Gene'
’A
xpnj, T
«X
«t/T
^. ration, Summit, Termination.—I. 4.
FROM OCELLUS.
‘H Tptu( npuTri o i y e o o ^ o t v ,
’A p x y v Mf<roTijTa x a i TcAti/-
T Yjv.
The first triad consists of Be
ginning, Middle, and End.—Lyd. de
Mens, p, 20.
Digitized by Google
SO S FYT11AGORF AN FRAGM ENTS.
FROM PLATO.
K ty v u t i t i « { i<( t a n a
i<TT< tA tp d y peara y i y ts p u ta
x a i y etljj-eta x a i y e n ja sp u ta ,
tA p u t tpvati, tA 81 T t ^ v j,
tA St T ^XV'
Some say that all things consist of
those which are in the course ofgene
ration, those generated, and those
about to be generated; the first by
nature, the second by art, and the
third by chance.— Plat, de Leg. X.
FROM ARISTOTELES.
TA tp la t a n a . . . , ta Z sd -
t t p y a p epxait o1 TlvStaycpeui
t o t a t xai tA t a n a i s t f
r p u rit S p u r r a i' to a c v tij y a p
xai pleaor x a i apyjtj tot Apid-
Iuit fxe‘ T
4‘' tonin' TaSr*
81 Tor ty ji TpiaSof.
All things are three: for as the
Pythagoreans say, the Universe and
all things are bounded by three : for
the End, the Middle, and the Be
ginning, include the enumeration of
every thing, and they fulfil the num
ber of the triad.—Aristot. de Coelo. I.
FROM ARISTOTELES.
’A y a fto ! y e x a i trtovtaTot The good and contemplative be-
y ly v o n a t 8iA rpiuv' tA t p ta come so through three things; and
Se t avrei le n t tpiirif, c&
o<, these three are Nature, Habit, and
Xoyof. Reason.—Aristot. Polit. VII.
FROM DAMASCIUS.
T p la t i t t d t a n a , AXA’
t i x ^Er, *Tiraffi{ A v ta p -n xai
’E .ttp yeia .
All things, therefore, are three,
but not one; Hyparxis, Power, and
Energy.—Damas. Quaest. c. 39.
Digitized by Google
COSMOGONY OF THE TYRRHENIANS.
'Icrnpiav Si Tap' airoif
avrjp (jarupot; avreypd^fTO.
"Fxpy] ydp Toy 5tj[/.tovpyov xSy
vavruv ©toy SwSexa xiXioSaf
iviavruf toi( TO.atv airov
( p tX o T tfx r ja a a ^ a i X TtV ftaar,
xa! TavTaf ZiaTtivai totf if?
Myofatvotf oixoi{• xa! Trj /xl>
al y/KiaZt Toijjtrai Toy oipa-
yoy, xa! trjy yyjv' TTj itvrtpp
TOiyjtrai to tTTtpiufia toSto
to cpatvobifvov, xaXtcra; av-
Toy* ovpavov' t j Tphrj Sid-
Xaoooy, xa! ra B
8aTa Ta iv
t5J 7? Tam a' tSJ S', too?
tp u a T r ip a i TO Vf p & y d k o v f , rjXtov
x a l <r«Xi)Mjy' x a ! t«S{ d a r t -
p a f ’ Toj e \ T a a a v ( J a ^ y ir t-
TtiySy, x a ! i p j t t T u v , x a ! Te-
TpauoSa "f", e
’y t$> d e p t , x a !
i v T jj y a j, x a! T o if S i a n ' t j
V*, xoy a v d p o m o y . $aiyexa<
o?y T«i{ /aiy n p A T O f t f y p X i d -
t a ( orpo T r jf to o d v & p u m v
iu x o t/v d o - ta t T a p a X y k v S l c v a t '
T a t; S e X oixaf t f x tX ta Z a t; 8»a-
p ty riy to y ty o ; x £y dt^tpuTon.
tb{ t l r a i xoy T a m a yjpovov t r j f
o w r tX tia f ^ t j ^ i +
8w8cxa.
A certain person among them, well
versed in these matters, wrote a his
tory, in which he says : That God, the
demiurgus of all things, for the sake
of giving dignity to his productions,
was pleased to employ twelve thou
sand years in their creation; and ex
tended these years over twelve di
visions, called houses. In the first
thousand years he created the heaven
and the earth ; in the second he made
this apparent firmament above us, and
called it heaven; in the third, the
sea and all the waters in the earth;
in the fourth, the great lights, the sun
and the moon, together with the stars;
in the fifth, every soul of birds, and
reptiles, and quadrupeds, in the air,
and in the earth, and in the waters;
in the sixth, man. It appears, there
fore, that the first six thousand years
were consumed before the formation
of man; and during the other six
thousand years the human race will
continue, so that the full time shall be
completed even to twelve thousand
years.—Suid. v. Tyrrhenia.
• Kuster proposes avro.
t Kuster proposes TtTpax&wp, which I have adopted in the translation.
I Kuster proposes
Digitized by Google
THE THEOGONIES.
F R O M D A M A SC IU S.
’Ey iaIv To/yinr* ra~ ( <pf-
po/xevaif ravraif parf/Gifo'aif
’Opipmaif (I ScaXoylx 817 t i ;
t n t v , 7i trip) to yoijToy, k<
x*
0! ipiMaotfm 8icpui)ycvoNO'<v
ayr)jnc'v rrj(piia( tuv o\uv ap-
Toy Xpovov Tt&eyTf{, a n )
8
e Tory 8oo?y A l& cfa x aJ X ao (,
a y r l 8c tow oyto? airX Sc to
uov amhoyi^opievoi xa> Tpidha
Tav'T
T
jv irf«Ti)y iroiouyTC?’ ci{
8
e Tijy SctiTffay TcXciy vjtoi to
xvovpK
vov x a i to xtov woy Toy
flew, i Toy a p y riT a J y n u v a ,
rj T>jy vetpcXrjv, o ti 6c Toi^Twy
itiS lp iim ei 0 <
tay i){ ‘ oEAXotc
•yap <xAA*» ircpi toS u €t g v
(piXotrotpcvatv. T o v t o ijy
In the rhapsodies which pass under
the name of Orphic, the theology,
if any, is that concerning the Intel
ligible ; and the philosophers thus in
terpret it. They place Chronus(Time)
for the one principle of all things,
and for the two Ether and Chaos :
and they regard the egg as repre
senting Being simply, and this they
look upon as the first triadf. But
to complete the second triad they
imagine as the god a conceiving and
conceived egg, or a white garment,
or a cloud, because Phanes springs
forth from these. But concerning
this middle (subsistence) different
philosophers have different opinions.
Whatever it may be they look upon
* Lob. om its y.tv ro(wv.
f T h e intelligible triad o f th e later Platonists was divided in th re e sub
sistences, each o f w hich w as also called a triad, an d com posed o f subsistences
bearing analogy to th e w hole.
X B entley proposes payivra.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
FROM DAMASCHJS. 311
ondioy av j , t o v yovv* U(
8€ oraTipa xai 8t'vauiv, aXha
Tiva vpoircmybovvTd; oitxv
tZ 'Optpi'i irpooyxovTa, Tijy
8e rptrrv Toy Mijriv Toy 'Hpi-
xaoeaioyf vf Svya/xiy, t o v
ajojTa d>
f naTfpa.
M ijir o T e 8 t x a i T » p j m o t j v
T p i a 8 a & tT toy x a r a T«» T p -
piopipoy S tl y , to t xvopuyoy (v
t S u S ‘ x a i y a p x a i t o u-tTov
a e i (p avT a^u" a-vyapupojtpoy
t u v a xp u v, u a n tp x a i ro tir o
a u a x a i a o v x a i Tp!pu>p<pO(
i StOf. Kai opqit; on to pt-ty
dov fo r ty to yjvoipotvoy, b 8 f
rplpuipipof x a i mXil/opipot; Tip
oyTi & « { t o 8 i a x f x p / x c W to v
x o i j t o E ' t o 8 e /xeV ov x a T a uey
to dov IT t yyoipieyoy, § x a T a
8 f Toy Seby tjSoj 11 8 i a x c x p /A € m ,
t o 8 c oXoy t'miTy htaxptybpKyov.
T o ia i/T i) ji«i> ^ <n/v>j&ij? *Op-
(ptxrj S to X o yia .
'H 8e x a T a t o > 'Iepimpoy
it as Mind; but for Father and
Power some of them imagine other
things whicli have no connexion with
Orpheus. And in the third triad
they substitute for it Metis, whilst
they place Ericapaeus as Power, and
Phanes as Father. J
But the middle triad is never to be
placed according to the triformed god
(Phanes) as absolutely conceived in
the egg: for the middle subsistence
always shadows out each of the ex
tremes, as should tjiis, which must
partake at once both of the egg and
of the triformed god. And you may
perceive that the egg is the united
(subsistence) or principle of union ;
and the triformed god, who is multi
form about being, is the separated
principle of the Intelligible; but the
middle subsistence, being united as
far as it relates to the egg, and al
ready separated as far as it relates to
the god, may be considered as exist
ing altogether as in the act of sepa
ration : such is the common Orphic
theology.
But the theology delivered by Hie-
• Lob. omits in rbv vow. f ’Hp/xiirotTov. Lob.
J Wolf, and Lob. omit in rlv vow. Taylorplaces it after Mym, and translates
this very obscure passage thus: “ But conceiving him over and above this as
father and power, contributes nothing to Orpheus. But they call the third triad
Metis as intellect, Ericapaeus as pow er, and Phanes e* fa th e r .” I have inserted a
full stop after ^poa^xovra. Lob. does the same, though he gives no translation
of the passage.
§ Tay. inserts rfcrgirov, which he supposes to be omitted. It appears to me
to destroy the argument.
|| ii$«/ W. and Hamb.
Digitized by
312 TH E THEOGONIES
(pcpo[Acvvi x a l 'EX X & ixoy, d m p
u p x a l o a i r i ( i< m v, o u t u (
«%<i. *Timp tjv (pyaiv i ( dpff l( ,
x a l “T/\rj * rj{ e’
Tr^TTi'f' ^ 1 ^ ,
8i/o TavTaf apyfli into ti5 « -
pitvof i t p u m , "Thup x a l I^jy,
TatTTjy /x€y &
>
f <pv<r(( tnit-
haarpy, iy«7yo 8f i f Tai/T,j{
xgXXtjtjxSv T f x al cruvcxTixcy'
T tjy J 8e ja/ay irpo Twy 8vo“y
appvjTov oupiTjfJLV, a vto yap t8
f«)8 e tpdvai irepi av-njf iv-
SfmyuTai airrjp Tyjy dtttyfa-TW
ipvaiy’ t r,y 8« rp/rijy a ^ rjy
fu r d r d ( tvo ytyypTppyai u i v
^x TOifr&ty, "TSarof (pTi/ai xal
r ? f , SpsfxoyTa 8e eiyai m«pa-
X a j ly p y ta •npomeifniy.viaf
ravpzv x a l Xeovrof, c'y ixea-tj)
hi Stov r.pi'jur.oy, iy tiv § 8e
x a l in ) tu v «|ui> m ip a , uvo-
u u a -b a i 8e Xpoyoy|| ayijparoy^f
x a l ‘HpaxXija Toy avToV tro-
yefyat St a iT p Ttjy ’A yayxijy,
<^iViy oZcray Trjy ayrijy x al
’K hpdam iav aai/x aro y 8iaf-
yviuuiyry * • ^y wayTi t £ xoV-
Twy m parity avruv l<f>airro~
/xtyijy" ravrrjy d u a l XiyeaSsai
ronymus and Hellanicus is as fol
lows :—He says that Water was from
the beginning, and Matter, from
which the Earth was produced, so
that he supposes that the two first
principles were Water and Earth ;
the latter of which is of a nature
liable to separation, but the former
a substance serving to congluti-
nate and connect it: but he passes
over as ineffable the one principle
prior to these trvo, for its recondite
nature is evinced, in that there is no
manifestation appertaining to it. The
third principle after these two, which
is generated from them, that is from
the Water and Earth, is a Dragon
having the heads of a Bull and Lion
naturally produced, and in the middle,
between these, is the countenance of
the God: he has, moreover, wings
upon his shoulders, and is denomi
nated incorruptible Chronus (Time)
and Hercules. Fate also, which is
the same as Nature, is connected
with him, and Adrastia, which is in-
corporeally co-extensive with the uni
verse, and connects its boundaries in
harmony. I am of opinion that this
* Lob. inserts (l\6 s ) in a parenthesis. Creuzer proposes to substitute it.
f *7
r<
£y«<Hamb.—Wolf, proposes ujrdfyi/.
X Lob. omits from
§ e%n Hamb.
|| y&fyop W. and Hamb.
% ayljputTOp Mon.
•• hoppytvfxtpT\p Tay.
Digitized by ( ^ . o o Q l e
FROM D AM ASCUS. SIS
nyv rp lry v d p xyv, »“T“ tijv
oiir/ax ir r u a a v , TtAyv o n d p -
atvobyX vv a ir ily in e a r y a a r o .
*j>5{ (vtifiEiv rvj; rs&vrurv y tv -
veTixijj a h la y .
Kai Im X a u p d n u i r y v ly
r a j( paxpoiilaif dcokoylav d -
<
ptTaav r a y tvo r tp u ra i a p x a f
p ttr u r y f f*i3j irpo t5 k 8uo7v
rrjf a iy y $ * n a p a S o d cla yf a m
ryy r p tr y s u t r a ra j St/o Tav-
ri)i iva-ryaaa&ai T7jy dpxy»>
oi( npoiryy fa r ly n I x o ia y t
xal a v a u trp o v npoy a yS p u n u y
axoaj. OJtoj yap »
Ji/ 0iro-
AiiT/fCijToj& Ix tly p Xpovof d y y -
paroi; xa< A\5epo< xai Xaot/j
n a r y p ’ d /a lk a xal xara Tai-
T1
JV0Xpovot ovrof 0 Spaxoiv y fv -
v a r a i, r fm 'k y y o v y v f A iS tp a
tpyai vocplv xal Xaoj avtip o v,
xal rplrov in 1tovtojj vEpf;9o{
o/ju X ku tef' rrjy itw c p a v r a v -
ty/v r p la ta avuXoyov T7
Jn p u ry
T ta p a iliu a t 8vva[/.ixyv ovaav
o>( ix tlv yv na.rpix.yy' 8
1
0 xal
TO rplrov a o rrjf "Epofio'f l a n v
ip u % \Z 8 tf, xal t8 n a r p ix lv r t
x a i axpov A lS yp 0 i% dir\o i(
d W a voepZf' J T3 81 ptttrov
avroSrev X d o f am ipov, d W a
It-yv iv rcv ro if, u ( X e y n , 0
Xpovof aov ly iv v y a tv , too X po-
vov m io v o a y iv v y u a xal a u ry
third principle is regarded as subsist
ing according to essence, inasmuch
as it is supposed to exist in the nature
of male and female, as a type of the
generating principle of all things.
And in the rhapsodies I conceive
that the (Orphic) theology, passing
over the two first principles, toge
ther with the one preceding those two
which is delivered in silence, estab
lishes the third, which is properly
posterior to the other two, as the first
principle, inasmuch as it is the first
which has something effable in its
nature, and commensurate with hu
man conversation. For the venerable
and incorruptible Chronus (Time)
was held in the former hypothesis to
be the father of Ether and Chaos:
but in this he is passed over, and a
Serpent substituted: and the threefold
Ether is called intellectual, and Chaos
boundless, and the dark cloudy Ere
bus is added to them as a third. He
delivers, therefore, this second triad
as analogous to the first, this being
potential as was thatpaternal. Where
fore the third subsistence of this triad
is dark Erebus, and its paternal prin
ciple and summit Ether, subsisting
not simply but intellectually, and the
middle derived from it is boundless
Chaos. But with these it is said
Chronus generated the egg, for this
* t? ff/yji Mon. f t yov^v Mon. m. X vot^o's Mon.
s s
Digitized by Google
3 1 4 T H E THEOGONIES,
>) itapdiotrif x a i Iv tco to i?
TixTOjMygy, ? ti x a l d irl rotf-
r o y tj ip ttr i npititri votjtt,
a p id p . T ! ( o lv a Srrj l a m ; to
o!oy, ij 8oA{ T«y Iv a v r o (pv-
9 (0 v d tfeyo f x a l StyXe/ac x a l
t £y ly p l a y n a r to lo x a n tp u d -
Toy t ! xXij$o{- x a l Tfiroy cxl
Toi/roif S «8y dadpiaT ov, m e -
p v y a f M t o y a p a v ejjovTa
X p v a a f, Of ly p ly ra T f K a y la 1
vpoaxetpvxv'iaf ti%e ra vp o y
xe tp a k a f, I v 1 8e Tyjf x a p a k rjf
Spdxoyra orekopioy irayT oSa-
na Z f poptpaTf Ss-fplav ZySaXXd-
peyoy. Touroy /ily o3y u (
vouy rrjf rplabof im k r/irrlo y ,
i d 8e p l e a •ycVij T a to ttoX-
XA x a l T a 81/0 Trjy bvyapiy,
airro 81 to cloy d p ffiv iraTjnxiJy
t ^ ( rp lrrif aplabof, T avT tjf 8e
tt[{ "Xptnrjf Tf»a8o( Toy aphov
d ’coy, x a l 5j8ij h dcoXoy ta VLpa-
royovoy d y v p y u x a l A ia xaXc~
xoarroy bia rd xT o p a x a l oXou
to u x la p m , 810 x a l I la y a x a -
KtTaSlai. T o a a v r a x a l a S tij
ntp'i t o y yoijT«y d p yfiy lj y t -
vcaX oy/a napla-njaiy.
*H 81 waj>A ry Vltpnra-
■nprixy Eibrjpy* ivayeypap-
p lv rn o f t o v 'O p tb io f oZaa
ScoX oyia x a y t ! yoijToy l v i £ -
relation makes it a procession of
Chronus, and bom of these, in
asmuch as from these proceeds the
third Intelligible triad. What, then,
is this triad ? The egg, the duad of
the natures of male and female con
tained in it, and the multitude of the
all-various seeds in the middle of i t ;
and the third subsistence in addition
to these is the incorporeal god, with
golden wings upon his shoulders, who
has the heads of bulls springing forth
from his internal parts, and upon his
head an enormous serpent, invested
with the varied forms of beasts. This,
therefore, is to be taken as the Mind
of the triad : but the middle proces
sions, which are both the Many and
the Two, must be regarded as Power,
but the egg as the paternal principle
of this third triad. But the third god
of this third triad, the theology now
under discussion celebrates as Pro-
togonus (First-born), and calls him
Dis, as the disposer of all things, and
the whole world: upon that account
he is also denominated Pan. Such
are the hypotheses which this gene
alogy lays down concerning the Intel
ligible principles.
But the cosmogony which is deli
vered by the Peripatetic Eudemus as
being the theology of Orpheus, passes
the whole Intelligible order in silence,
• itlbiKos W olf. H am b.— trjpw M on.
Digitized by Google
FROM DAM ASCIUS. 3 1 5
«ijcrf», i f x c u n d x a a iv a p fa -
t o v * r t xa ) a y v u a t m t p i-
«»>+ xoncc SiefoSoV t c xcu
d x a y y c X ia v ' d u o 8* t ^ j n x -
■tof inoiijtraTO Tijv dp/foy, cup'
yi; xcu o "O fojpoj, <1 x a ) poy
auycpyj weirOHjTai Trjv y t v ta -
A oyiav, u t t ij it iv ' ov y a p diio -
icxT icy J I'.iZ^uov Xeyoyrof §
ori a x o ’tlxca yo v xa ) T ijSuoj
a p rfp ta t' <putvtTai y a p i licit
x a ) t ipy N to cru pcyitTTrp oSt o i
§ cov, i f x a ) t o v A la trepco—
& at 11 airtpy.
as altogether ineffable and unknown,
and incapable of discussion or expla
nation. He commences from Night,
which Homer also constitutes his
first principle, if we would render his
genealogy consistent. Therefore we
must not put confidence in the asser
tion of Eudemus, that Homer makes
it commence from Oceanus and Te-
thys ; for it is manifest that he re
gards Night as the greatest divinity,
which is implied in the following line,
where he says that she is reverenced
by Jove himself—
" f t t f i o y a p p y Nmil d v o ^ ip ia pt^tu.
He feared lest he should excite the displeasure of swift Night.
'AAV "Opitipot pctv x a ) a ir r lt Homer, therefore, must be supposed
dpxttrSu dxo N
w
cro'{. to commence from Night.
'H
<no&
>«$eputt tioxei vpZxov But Hesiod, when he affirms that
y n t o S a i to X a o f iaxopuv r ip Chaos was the first produced, appears
axaT akipsT oy t o u yorprou x a ) to me to regard Chaos as the incom-
ijvaufwp x a y r c X S f <pv<rtv x e x - prehensible and perfectly united na-
Xipxtvat X d o t, ttjv St ture of the Intelligible. From thence
xpuTiiv ixctSiev x a p d y u y St he deduces Earth ** as the first prin-
t ua dpxipv -njt «A
ij( yevcat ciple of all the generation ofthe gods,
t Z v SrtZy- cl pii) a p a X d o f unless, perhaps, he may regard Chaos
p i v t r)v hevTtpav t Z v hvoTv d p - as the second subsistence of the two
%Zv, Tvpv** St xcu T d p ra p cv principles : in which case Earth and
xa'^Epura ri Tpm
XcvvynpcLy, Tartarus, and Eros (Love), compose
• tfpi)XTM Hamb. f t piiroy or TpSxuiv Hamb.
J axotixTlav Hamb. § Xfyorrts Mon. || od icS cu Mon.
If II. xiv. 261. The printed copies of Homer have SpSoi.
** The emendation of yv for ri)> is proposed by Mr. Taylor, and though I
find no authority in the different texts for it, it is evidently requisite not only for
the sense but to accord with Hesiod’s Theogony.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
T H E TIIEOO O NIES,
J I G
tov (/.*>*E pauT a d v u r o v T p h o v ,
i f y ta ic t i'ni<TTp'xf)V))> % e u p o v -
p i v r t v. T o u to y a p o v r u f ovo-
p a Q e i x a i o *O p< pevf i v ToCif
p a i p a t il a i f ' r r jv B^ T?v ayr* t o v
v p u T o v t i f irp u T riv i v <nepe<ji
r m x a ) oua’iwSfi x a ra o 'T ij-
jtxaT» ira 7 €r<7ay* tov Be T a p -
T a p o v avT* tg u p e a o v , i f rfirj *
TFUf ( i f fo a K p u n v ira/)axexiv7j-
jU€VGV.
’Axoucr l X a o f Be X a o f p e v
v itO T t^ fe a ^ fa l p o i Boxer tvjv
i t p u r r p d p y f l v , M f TrdvTvj a y -
vu<Ttov, T a$ Be Buo f x e r d t i j v
p l a i t , *E p€/3 o f p e v tv jv d f p e v a ,
T vjy Be S v jh e ia v N u x t« , T a v -
tijv p e v a itT i a i t e i p l a f , h e Ivyjv
Be avT * ite p a r o f* i n Be t o v t w v
<l>y)<Ti "j* p i y f i e v r u v A i& e p a y e -
ve< T \fai n a i ^ E p u T a n a ) M ?t< v,
T^cif T a r j r a f vovjT ctf vT totr-
r a a - e i f , tv jv p e v d n p a v A i d e p a
•n o iu v , ty ,v Be p ecrvjv ^ E p o jr a
x a r d TYju (pvcn n vjv p e a - o r y x a
t o v u E p a n o f, tv jv Be T p lrv jv
M$}ti v , x aT * J auT ^v vjhvj to v
•ttoXvTtpvjTO V v o v v . ITa p a y e i
Be i n i T o v T o if ex t u v a v r u v
n a l a X k u v S e u v «oXuv§ a p i S -
p o v n a r a tv jv E vh rjp o v l<rto -
f ! a v . \ \
the three-fold Intelligible, Eros being
put for the third subsistence, consi
dered according to its convertive
nature. Orpheus also in his rhap
sodies has adopted a very similar
disposition, for he places the Earth
for the first, being the first that was
conglomerated into a compact and
essential substance, while he places
Tartarus as the middle, as having
already, in a manner, a tendency to
wards disunion.
But Acusilaus appears to me to
regard Chaos as the first principle and
altogether unknown, and after this
one to place the duad, Erebus as the
male and Night as the female, the
latter being substituted for infinity,
and the former for bound; and from
a connexion between these were ge
nerated Ether and Eros (Love), and
Metis (Counsel), these three being the
Intelligible hypostases, of which he
places Ether as the summit, Eros as
the middle in compliance with the
natural intervention of love, and
Metis as the third, inasmuch as it
is already highly-venerable Intellect.
And from these, according to the
relation of Eudemus, he deduces the
vast multitude of the other gods.
* ii' 8
>
j Wolf, llamb. f fti/u Wolf. Hamb.
I xa! Wolf. § jroXXa(i.«. jroXXij») Mon. || Ic n p la Mon.
Digitized by L.ooQle
FROM DAM ASCI US. 3 1 7
Toy 8f ’ETrifcev/Srjy 81lo •npu-
t o ( £j>%a{ iiroSfV&a< 'Aepct
xa< N J x ra , SrjXov oti c iy y
T ift^ a av ra Tijy ja/av irfo t£ v
8vo7y, i£ uv yeyyij&^yai T a f-
Tapov o laai r!jv T f/rijv apxqv,
S ( ti v a punT?jy* ^x Tay Suo7v
(rvyxfaS'cra’ay* of ay 800 r*ya;
TTjy yoTjTvjy f«<roTijTa outoj x a -
X ftrayra, 8(o t i dir’ apupv81a-
Tci'yci to Tc oinpovHal to vepaf,
uv pupfitnuv dXXijXoi< (Joy
yetetrSa 1 touto ineTpo to yo>j-
Toy tJSov o’? aXijdSf, ov
•naXiv aXXtjv •ytyody itpocA-
&e7y.
<foffxt!8»){ 8« 0 2 Of10; ££yT a
ftfy f7y«< d e l x a i X ^o’yoy'f' x a i
X&oyiay T(k{ Tf€<V wpuTaf ap-
X&i, T7]y puav <
p
T
}
[
/.i T
rp
o tuv
8oo~y, x a l T a$ 800 pura Tijy
pitav' Toy 8f Xfovoy n o n jtr a i
7x to o •yo'yoo e«oT0o I lo f x a l
Ilyeo/xa x a l '’TSojf, Tjjy Tfwr-
Xrfy oTftai tp v a iv to o yoijTOo,
i f «y iy ore'yTe fU%o7{ Sirjftj-
fcc'yay ToXX^y y t v c a v aW T tjyai
&«£y tJjv v ty i€ fA ip v % o v ^ x a -
Xoo/xeyijy, Taoroy 8e ?« «{ e<-
nov, T>jy itcvttxtxrpuiv. Ilepi
Epimenides affirms that the two first
principles are Air and Night: whence
it is evident that he reverences in
silence the one principle which is
prior to the two: from which, I con
ceive, he holds that Tartarus is gene
rated regarding it as a nature in a
manner compounded of the two ; for
some, indeed, regard the principle
which is derived from these two as a
kind of Intelligible intermediate sub
sistence or mediety, properly so
called, inasmuch as it extends itself
to both extremities, the summit and
the boundary ; for by their connexion
with one another, an egg is generated
which is properly the very Intelli
gible animal from which again pro
ceeds another progeny.
But Pherecydes Syrius considers
the three first principles to be an
Ever-vital subsistence, Chronusf, and
an Earthly subsistence; placing, as I
conceive, the One prior to the Two,
and the Two posterior to the One:
and that Chronus generated from
himself Fire, and Spirit, and Water,
representing, I presume, the three
fold nature of the Intelligible : from
which, when they became distributed
into five recesses, w
rere constituted a
numerous race of gods, called the
five-times animated order, equivalent
• x a ) jLUxrbp Mon.
\ XgfoovMon. and Tay. which the following passage evidently requires.
J ntvrijuLV^ov Mon. TooTr^v^ov in m.
Digitized by Google
318 TH E THEOGON1ES,
/xlj»6A4
C
.-ujiC
jA
8f t o v t u v aXXo< tirt>( ypaytTrai
xaipof. T a a i r a i puy ovv xai
TocrauTai T a n y /napaXrl<p^'x~
<ra* V r> *1 Wk /J t& u t ‘EX-
Xyyixwy i«oStVei<, xoXXSy xai
aXXuv o ik t v v .
T5y S< Bap€uptn ictxam
Ba£i>X»yioi ^u'r Tip puay T»y
SX
m
» afrffly atyp itapteyai Sup
Sf xoi.iy* TaiAe xai ‘Axa-
tr<
w
y,'I* T^y /«y ’Axaouy aySpa
iij{J Tao&r xoiovyTc;, tok-
T7-y Si pLtfcfpa. HriSy byttfid-
5oyT«{, if 4» pioyoyfyy vaiSa
yeynfirjyat Toy Mon/ftiy, oiToy
clp-ai to y yoijToyxoVjuoy ix rSy
SuoTydpxSyotapayopLtyoy.^ ‘Ex
Si T»y at/ruy aXXijy ytytdy
tpoftSlfiy Aajjijy xai Aa%oy.
EiTa a!! rpiTyjy ix T«y aUTuy1
1
Kxraapyi xai 'A<raupby, if »y
y ty ttr ^ a i r p tif, ‘Ayoy xai "Ia-
Xiyoy xai *
Agy‘ to o Si ’AoS
xai Aauxyf vloy ytyia&ai Toy
BijXoy, oySti/xioupyoy flyout <pa-
<riy.
M a yo t Si xai xay to aptuy
y tn o ft i ( xai to S to yp d tp fi o
ESSijfWf, oi /xiv Tomy, oI Si
XpiyoyxaXoSo-i to yoijToy airay
xai to rpmfjLtyoy- if oi Sta-
x^iSrjyai 1
) &
«oy dyoc^oy xai
to what he might call a five-foldworld.
But another opportunity may perhaps
occur for the discussion of this part
of the subject. Such and of a simi
lar description are the hypotheses
which are received by us relative to
tbe Greek mythological fables, which
are numerous and ^ ry various.
But the Babylonians, like the rest
of the Barbarians, pass over in silence
the One principle of the Universe,
and they constitute Two, Tauthe and
Apason; making Apason the hus
band of Tauthe, and denominating
her the mother of the gods. And
from these proceeds an only-begotten
son, Moymis, which I conceive is no
other than the Intelligible world pro
ceeding from the two principles.
From them, also, another progeny is
derived, Dache and Dachus; and,
again, a third, Kissare and Assorus,
from which last three others pro
ceed Anus, and Illinus, and Aus. L-JJ-.
And of Aus and Dauce is born a son
called Belus, who, they say, is the
fabricator of the world, the Demi-
urgus.
But of the Magi and all the Arion
race, according to the relation of
Eudemus, some denominate the In
telligible Universe and the United,
Place, while others call it Time
(Chronus): from whom separately
* *ix«r Mon. f ix a c in Mon. «»«»£* H. t M p a y T it Mon.
§ Trpcay6/jnvov H&mb. H/xtaaap^ Mon.
Digitized by Google
FROM DAMASCIUS. 319
iatfjLcya %
ay.iv fi <
p
2
<xai mi- proceed a Good Divinity and an Evil
itpi Tovraw iviov$ Xc- Daemon; or, as some assert, prior to
ytn. OJtoi 81 olf xai aito) these, Light and Darkness. Both
fitra -rip diidxpnty rpva-ty the one, therefore, and the other,
tiaxpmfuinp vowva-i njv Sit - after an undivided nature, hold the
•njvawToixV T“>
' KpriTToW’ twofold co-ordination of the superior
ty)c rjytiaSai rlv ’fl/w- natures as separated and distinct,
iu4cr8>|, t^{ Si tIv 'Apufidyiov. over one of which they place Oro-
masdes as the ruler, and over the
other Arimanius.
ZiMwoi 8* k«tA t1» avTtn The Sidonians, according to the
<ruyypa<p(a itpi ttoanny Xpmov same writer, before all things place
vrorl^tirrai xai no'&or xai Chronus, and Pothus, and Omichles,
'Ofilyfav' no'Srou81xai ’Opt- (Time, Love, and Cloudy Darkness).
XKijf fiiyenuy u( SvoTv ipyiHv And by a connexion between Pothus
’Aipat yivitr^ai xai Aipay, and Omichles, as the Two principles
’Atpa /icy aapa-rtty too vor/rov are generated Aer and Aura (Air
itapaSijXmyrtf, A“
pay 81 to and a Gentle Breeze), substituting
If aizov xivoif/ieycy toS xoijtov Air for the summit of the Intelligible,
ZariKoyitpoTvizu/ia. UdXiy 8' and the Breeze arising from it for the
lx toiSt ov d/Mpoiv^ClToyytnyj- vivifying prototype ofthe Intelligible.
dijyat ttazd * tov ywy ol/iat And from these two again is gene-
■tiv voijtov. rated Otus (the Night Raven), re
presenting, as I conceive, the In
telligible Mind.
'Clf 81 efoiStv EiSij^ov T
>
jv But independent of the collections
o iv ix o iv t i p l m t p t t y ta zd MS- of Eudemus we find the mythology
X
ovj'/xti&oXoT'iay, Aldyp Ijy ri of the Phoenicians thus delivered ac-
•xpuToy xai ’Ai/p ai Silo a jra i cording to Mochus. First was Ether
dpxa), If uv ymdzai OiAu- and Air, which are the Two first
o xoojtIj Sreif, airi ilpuxi principles; from these was produced
t o anpov t o v yoijTov' If oj lau- Ulomus, the Intelligible God, and, as
T
<
j>myt\6oyr<t(yeyyri9rjya!tpyjiri I conceive, the summit of the Intel-
Xavtrwpcv,dynyiaapunyyilza ligible: from whom, by a connexion
• p itr i Mon. f /iC^m Mon.
Digitized by Google
320 THE THEOGONIES,
<yoV TOt/TOV fJLtVolfXCtl TO
*V
O
T
jT
O
V
vcZ> X ty c v r tf, rbv Sc ctvoiyta
Xovaa}pont r y v >oy}Ty]> bvvafjuv
a r e itpurify S iaxp/vayav
ahiaxpiroy (pvtriv, t \ [Mf a pa
pt.tra r o tf 8tfo dpx& t to U€V
axpoy A ttiv ayf/M q o «T$, to Sc
fxeaov cl Ivo avepoi Ai'xp re kcu
Noto$* irotovo’t y a p iru f x a i
TOVTOVf* VpO rOVOi)sA>fMV' "j* 0
$€ OvXufAOf avroq 6 yovjrof
c f y j yoZf, 0 8c dvotytvq X o r-
aupO f§ 1} [A trd r 0 >o^roy||
TipdoTTj T a£i{, to Sc wov 0 00-
payof. k e y tr a t y a p auroZ
paytvroq tit; tivo y ty ta O a i ov~
pavof v-a i rill r S y Sl^O TO-
pripuxTuy IxaTcpey.
A i y v r ri4 » * * S i o piey E “-
Ofjjxcf oi8«v a x p i€ if la-Topei,
si 8e A iy v n rto i x.a.6’ yp id f <pi-
Xoo'txpoi y e y w i i t f f ^ y f y x a y
utrSv tr,» dXrjBetay xexpvpi-
fj.tvry e lp ivxe f ey AlywrTiSif
8
ij tic ti \o y o if' i f eirj xstT* a i -
t o i/{ t] pity pila tu y tA uy
afXI 2x o t o { ayyuTT oy Spiyov-
p e r y x a i t o u t o r p if dycupu-
yovpieyov ofiruf' i d f h i hilt
d jrfjd f "Thup xai 'f'a p p icy , i f
with himself, was produced Chusorus,
the firstexpandingprinciple, and then
the Egg: by the latter I imagine
they mean the Intelligible Mind; but
by Chousorus, the Intelligible Power,
being the first nature whichseparates
an unseparated subsistence, unless,
perhaps, after the two principles the
summit may be the one Wind ; but
the middle, the two winds Lips and
Notus (south-west and south), for
sometimes they place these prior to
Oulomus, In which case Oulomus
himself would be the Intelligible
Mind, and the expanding Chousorus
the first order after the Intelligible,
and the Egg Heaven : for it is said,
that by the rupture of it into two
parts heaven andearth were produced
each from one of its two severed
parts.
Of the Egyptian doctrines Eu-
demus gives us no accurate infor
mation. But the Egyptian philoso
phers, who are resident among us,
have explained their occult truth,
having obtained it from certain Egyp
tian discourses. According to them,
then it appears to be this. The One
principle of theUniverse is celebrated
as Unknown Darkness, and this
three-times pronounced as such: and
the Two principles are Water and
* TOUTOIf Mon. f O
uX
tU
ytt/vO
U
§ Xovaojpou Hamb. || t&
v Hijt&v Hamb.
•* Aryvwrfovs Mon.
H. % «i Mon.
Wolfproposes 0
vpady xai yijr.
f t aW tov. Mon.
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
FROM DAMASCIUS. 321
'tipai<nu<' if 8o i uptc^uTt- Sand, according to Heraiscus; but
patairof ’Ao-xXijinaStif, 'Va.y.- according to Asclepiades, who is the
fco»K«i “Tixp, il a* xa! jim
6’ more ancient of the two, Sand and
at 'ytvrrflrrpai to/ tfZnm Ka- Water, from whom, and next in suc-
IA
.ii<
piv'* fita tJ» itirtpava cession after them, is generated the
toi/tou, c’ra Ka) ana rovrou first Kamephis, and from this a second,
tov rpiTov, otf trv/xxXripowto» and from this again a third, which,
oX
ov mijToy 8io£xoay*ov. OEtu they affirm, completes the whole In
jury ’Ao>Xi)Tria8r)f. 'O 81vtu- telligible distribution. Such is the
Tipof 'Hpai<nuf Toy rphov system of Asclepiades. But the
iyo/jiaaBtyTa Ka/Aijip'iy anatcu more modern Heraiscus says that
narpas Ka) tov namov Toy the third, who is named Kamephis
rjX
ioy A al oiCtov Sij- from his father and grandfather, is
otou Toy yavvtov yoijTo'y. ’AXXA the Sun, equivalent in this case to the
T
>
jyfiiy ntp\ tovtoiv aKplfleiat Intelligible Mind. But greater ac-
il ixeiyay X
ijTrro'oy. 'I<7T
«'oy 8* curacy upon the subject can only be
ko.) (Ktivonap) r u v A ly v m tu y , obtained from these authors them-
oti "biaiptriKai t i n oroX
X
ot^oS selves. It must be observed, how-
ta y K a r a ty ttn v itp ta r in a y , ever, with regard to the Egyptians,
Int) Ka) t8 yoijTo'y htypyKany that they are often wont to distribute
df *oXXSy S tu y ffixfTijTaf, »f subsistences according to union, as
e£«TTi /xaStir ixtlvuv when they divide the Intelligible into
a v y y p iiftp ta n y i y r v x tZ n ra~( the individualities of a multitude of
j9ocx«jU
€yo<f, \ i y u i t t j "H p a t- gods, as may be learnt from their own
crxov iyaypcuprj tov A ly v x - writings by those who Will examine
tUv koSi' S
X
oy X
oyov npac, t8> them : I refer particularly to the
flfoVXoy ypatjttlari Toy <
ptXo- commentary of Heraisctis Upon the
anpoy, Ka) tj &plajxirp ypd- Egyptian doctrine addressed to Pro-
(pttrdai trvfMpuylf. in'o 'A<r- clus the philosopher alone, and to
xXoj*ia8ov ray A'lyvmtuy npaf the concordance of the Egyptian
T«vf aXXovf 0taXayav(. writers, begun by Asclepiades and
addressed to the other Theologists.
kaijuf Moil.
Digitized by t j O O Q l e
CHRONOLOGICAL
AND
ASTRONOMICAL FRAGMENTS.
OF THE GREAT YEAR:
FROM BEROSSUS.
B e r o s s u s qui Belum interpre-
tatus est, ait cursu ista siderum
fieri: et adeo quidem id affir-
mat, ut conflagration! atque di-
luvio tempus assignet: arsura
enim terrena contendit, quando
omnia sidera, quae nunc diver-
so8 agunt cursus, in Cancrum
convenerint, sic sub eodem po-
sita veatigio, ut recta linea exire
per orbes omnium possit: inon-
dationem futuram, cum eadem
siderum turba in Capricornum
convenerit. Illic solstitium, hie
brumaconficitur.
Be r o s s u s , who thus interprets
the Babylonian tradition, says
that these events take place
according to the course of the
stars ; and affirms it so posi
tively, as to assign the time for
the Conflagration and the De
luge. He maintains that all
terrestrial things will be con
sumed when the planets, which
now are traversing their differ
ent courses, shall all coincide in
the sign of Cancer, and be so
placed that a straight line could
pass directly through all their
orbs. But the inundation will
take place when the same con
junction of the planets shall oc
cur inCapricorn. In the first is
the summer, in the last the win
ter of the year.— Seneca Nat.
Qucest. III. 29.
Digitized by G o o g l e
ASTRONOMICAL FRAGMENTS. 533
OF THE GREAT YEAR:
FROM CENSORINUS.
Ad jEgyptiorum vero magnum
annum luna non pertinet, quern
Grseci Kwixov Latine Canicula-
rem vocamus. Propterea quod
initiumillius summitur, cum pri-
modieejus mensis, quernvocant
iEgyptii &A5 Caniculae sidus
exoritur: nam eorum annus ci-
vilis solus habet dies ccclxv sine
ullo intercalari, itaque quafjri-
ennium eo fit, ut anno M.ccclxi
ad idem revolvatur principium.
Hie annus etiam Heliacos a
quibusdam dicitur: et ab aliis
i lyiavrcf est. Praeterea annus,
quern Aristoteles maximum po-
tius quam magnum appellat,
quern solis et lunae vagarumque
quinque stellarum orbes con-
ficiunt. Cum ad idem signum
ubi quondam simul fuerunt, una
referuntur. Cujus anni hyems
summa est Cataclysmos, quam
nostri Diluvionem vocant. E s-
tas autem Ecpyrosis quod est
mundi incendium. Nam in
his altemis temporibus mundus
turn exignesere, turn exaques-
cere videtur, hunc Aristarchus
putavit esse annorum verten-
tium duummilliuifatCcclxxxiiij.
In the great year of the Egyp
tians, which the Greeks call the
Cynic, and we in Latin the
Canicular; the Moon is not
taken into consideration : inas
much as its commencement is
fixed when Canicula rises upon
the first day of that month
which the Egyptians call Thoth.
For their civil year has only
365 days, without any inter
calary day; whence the qua-
drennium so adjusts itself, that
in the 1461st year the revo
lution is completed. This year
is by some called the Helia
cal, by others the Eniautus, or
The Year. But the year which
Aristotle calls the greatest, ra
ther than the great, is that in
which the sun, moon and all
the planets complete their
courses, and return to the same
sign from which they originally
started together. The Winter of
this year is theCataclysm, which
we call the Deluge: but its
Summer is the Ecpyrosis, that is
the Conflagration of the world.
For at these alternate seasons
the world is burned and de-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
324 CHRONOLOGICAL AND
Aretes Dyrrhachinus quinque
millium dlij. Herodotus et
Linus x. millium dccc. dierum
xiij. dcccclxxxiiij. Orpheus
centum xx. Cassandrus tricies
sexies centum millium. Alii
vero infinitum esse, nec in se
unquam reverti existimaverunt.
luged. Aristarchus supposes
this periodical revolution to
consist of 2484 years; Aretes
of Dyrrhachium of 5552; He
rodotus and Linus of 10,800;
. . . . . . of 13,984; Orpheus
of 120,000; Cassandrus of
136,000. Others suppose it to
be infinite in duration, and that
the celestial bodies never again
coincide in their original posi
tions.----Censorinus de Natali
Die.
OF THE CHRONOLOGICAL ERAS:
FROM CENSORINUS.
N u n c vero id intervallum tem-
porjs tractabo, quod Historicon
Varro appellat, hie enim tria
discrimina temporum esse tra-
dit. Primum ab hominum prin-
cipio ad Cataclysmum priorem,
secundum ad Olympiadem pri-
raam; quod quia in eo multa
fabulosa referuntur Mythicon
nominatur. Tertiam a prima
Olympiade ad nos quod dicitur
Historicon, quia res eo gestae
veris liistoriis continentur.
I w il l now treat of that interval
of time which Varro calls His
toric ; for he divides the times
into three parts. The first from
the beginning of mankind to
the former Cataclysm. The se
cond, which extends to the first
Olympiad, is denominated My
thic, because in it the fabulous
achievements are said to have
happened. The third, which
extends from the first Olym
piad to ourselves, is called His
toric, because the actions which
have been performed in it are
related in atfAentic history.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
ASTRONOMICAL FRAGMENTS. 325
Primum tempus sive habuit
initium, seu semper fuit; certe
quot annorum fuit, non potest
comprehends Secundum non
plane quidera scitur, sed tamen
ad mille circiter et dc annos
esse creditur a priore scilicet
Cataclysmo quern dicunt Ogy-
gis ad Inachi regnum annis cir
citer cccc hinc ad Olympiadem
primam paulo plus cccc quos
solos quamvis Mythici tem-
poris postremos tamen quia a
memoria scriptorum proximos
quidam certius diffinire voluere,
et quod Sosibius scripsit esse
ccclxxxxv, Eratosthenes autem
septemetcccc.Timaeusccccxvij,
Orethres clxiiij. Et praeterea
multi diverse; quorum etiam ip
sa dissentio incertum esse de-
clarat.
De tertio autem tempore fuit
aliqua inter auctores dissensio
in sex septemve tantum modo
annis versata. Sed hoc quod-
cunque caliginis Varro discus-
sit, et pro cmtera sua sagacitate
nunc diversarum civitatum con-
ferens tempora, nunc defectus
eorumque intervalla retro dinu-
The first period either had
some beginning, or had endured
from eternity ; however that
may be, it is impossible to make
out what was the number of its
years. Neither is the second
period accurately determined,
yet it is believed to contain
about 1600 years; but from
the former Cataclysm, which
they call that of Ogyges to the
reign of Inachus, about 400
years, from thence to the first
Olympiad, something more than
400; of which alone, inasmuch
as they are the last years of
the Mythic period, and next
within memory, certain writers
have attempted more accurate
ly to determine the number.
Thus Sosibius writes that they
were 395 ; Eratosthenes, 407 ;
Timaeus, 417; Orethres, 164.
Many others also have different
opinions, the very discrepancy
of which shews the Uncertainty
in which it is involved.
Concerning the thirdinterval,
there was also some disagree
ment among different writers,
though it is confined within a
period of only six or seven
years. Varro has, however, ex
amined the obscurity in which
it is involved, and comparing
with his usual sagacity the
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
326 CHRONOLOGICAL AND
merans eruit verum, lucemque
ostendit; per quam numerus
certus non annorum modo, sed
et dierum perspici possit.
Secundum quam rationem ni
fallor hie annus, cujus velut in
dex et titulus quidam est Ul-
pii et Pontiani consulatus, ab
Olympiade prima m. est et
xiiij. ex diebus duntaxat aesti-
vis, quibus Agon Olympiacus
celebretur, a Roma autem con-
dita dcccclxxxxi. et quidem ex
Palilibus, unde urbis anni nu-
merantur. Eorum vero anno
rum quibus Juiianis nomen est
cclxxxiij. sed ex die Kal. Jan.
unde Julius Caesar annis a se
constitui fecit principium. At
eorum qui vocantur anni Au-
gustani cclxv perinde Kal. Jan.
et ante diem xvj Kal. Februarii
Ju. Caesar, divi Alius imperator
Augustus, sententia Numatii
Planci a senatu caeterisque ci-
vibus appellatus est, se septi-
mum et M. Vipsano Agrippa
Consulibus.
chronicles and annals of differ
ent states, calculating the in
tervals wanted, or to be added
by reckoning them backwards,
has at length arrived at the
truth, and brought it to light.
So that not only a determinate
number of years, but even of
days can be set forth.
According to which calcula
tions, unless I am greatly de
ceived, the present year, whose
name and title is that of the
consulships of Ulpius and Pon-
tianus, is from the first Olym
piad the 1014th, reckoning
from the summer, at which
time of the year the Olympic
games are celebrated; but from
the foundation of Rome it is the
991st; but this is from the Pa-
lilia (21st April), from which
the years, ab urbe condita, are
reckoned. But of those years,
which are called the Julian
years, it is the 283d, reckoning
from the Kalends of January,
from which day of the year Ju
lius Caesar ordered the begin
ning of the year to be reckon
ed. But of those years which
are called the Augustan it is
the 265th, reckoning also from
the Kalends of January of that
year, in which, upon the 16th
of the Kalends of February
Digitized by t ^ . o o Q l e
ASTRONOMICAL FRAGMENTS. 327
Sed iEgyptii qui biennio ante
in potestatem ditionemque Po-
puli Romani venerunt, habent
Augustorum annorum cclxviii.
nam ut a nostris ita abjEgyptiis
quidam anni in litteras relati
sunt, ut quos Nabonnagarii no-
minant, qui a primo imperii ejus
anno consurgant, quorum bic
dcccclxxxvi est.
Item Philippi qui ab excessu
Alexandri magni numerantur,
et ad hucusque perducti annos
dlxii consumant. Sed horum
initia semper a die primo men-
sis ejus summuntur, cui apud
vEgyptios nomen est Thoth,
quoque hie anno fuit ante diem
vij Kal. Julii cum ab hinc annos
centumUlpio et Brutiopresente
Romae conss. iidem dies fue-
runt ante diem xii Kal. August,
quo tempore solet Canicula in
iEgypto facereexortum. Quare
scire etiam licet anni illius mag-
(15th), the son of Divus Julius
Caesar was saluted Emperor
and Augustus, on the motion of
Numatius Plancus, by the se
nate and the rest of the citizens
in the consulship of himself for
the seventh time, and M. Vip-
sanus Agrippa.
But the Egyptians, who two
years before had been reduced
under the dominion of the Ro
man people, reckon 268 Au
gustan years: for by the Egyp
tians, in like manner as by
ourselves, certain years are re
corded, and they call their era
the Era of Nabonnagarius, and
their years are calculated from
the first year of his reign, of
which years the present is the
986th.
The Philippic years also are
used among them, and are cal
culated from the death ofAlex
ander the Great, and from
thence to the present time 562
years have elapsed. But the
beginning of these years are
always reckoned from the first
day of that month, which is
called by the Egyptians Thoth,
which happened this year upon
the 7th of the Kalends of July,
(25th of June); for a hundred
years ago from the present year
of the consulship of Ulpius and
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
328 CHRONOLOGICAL AND
ni qui ut supra dictum est So
laris et canicularis et trieteris
vocatur, nunc agi vertentem
annum centessimum.
Initia autem istorum anno-
rum propterea notavi, ne quis
nesciat voluntates quae non mi
nus diversae sintquamopiniones
Philosophorum. Idcirco aliis a
novo sole, id est a brumali, ab
aestivo solstitio plerisque ab
aequinoctio verno partim ab au-
tumnali aequinoctio, quibusdam
ab ortu Vergiliarum, nonnullis
abearum occasu, multis a Canis
exortu incipere annus naturalis
videtur.
Brutius, the same fell upon the
12th of the Kalends of August
(21st July), on which day Ca
nicula regularly rises in Egypt.
Whence we know that of this
great year which was before
mentioned under the name of
the Solar Canicular or Trieteris,
by which it is commonly called,
the present current year, must
be the 100th.
I have been careful in point
ing out the commencement ofall
these years lest any one should
not be aware of the customs in
this respect, which are not less
various than the opinions of the
Philosophers. It is commenced
by some with the new Sun, that
is at the winter solstice, by
many at the summer solstice;
others again reckon from the
vernal or from the autumnal
equinox. Some also begin the
year from the rising or setting
of Vergilia (Pleides), but many
from the rising of the Dogstar.
OF TH E NERUS:
FROM JOSEPHUS.
E flE IT A Ka) 8l’ aptryv xal
t t jv fty fifr r la v , 3v intvoovy,
o u T T p o fa y ia f xai y ta /ju e r p la f,
Wh e r e f o r e on account of their vir
tue, as well as for the perfection of
the arts of astronomy and geometry,
Digitized by Google
ASTRONOMICAL FRAGMENTS. 329
irXf'ov Toy Sfov avroif va-
patryjiiv. amp c6k rp a<r<pa-
airoi( tcpoenttiv, /mj 'Cfl-
aatriv cfaxOTiott; hiavrot}(‘ 81A
t o t o i / t o v yap o i*eyaf iviavrof
vhTjpovTai.
which they invented, God permitted
them (the Patriarchs) a longer life:
inasmuch as they would have been
incapable of predicting any thing with
certainty, unless they lived six hun
dred years : for such is the period of
the completion of the great year.—
Jos. Ant. lib I. c. 3.
OF THE SARUS:
FROM SUIDAS.
2AP0I. fte'xp
oy xal apiSipuf S aru s : a measure and number among
napaXafi.tia!oif, oi yapp*! aa- the Chaldaeans: for 120 Sari, make
poi, %3uZ<ny i n a v t o i >< , 2222 years. Each Sarus is there
of ylyovT ai ii\ iy ia v r o i *a) fore equal to 18 years and 6 months,
ju^yaf ?{. —Sutd. v. Sarus.
OF THE RISING OF THE DOGSTAR:
FROM THEON ALEXANDR1NUS.
I1EPI toZ xvvof imTo\rj( F o rm u la to find the rising of the
iv&ciyua.* Dogstar.
’E v i toD p e-rov{ A ioxX yjna- For example, if we would find the
you m p ) t5 js to o w v'of tiriT o\rjf rising of the Dogstar in the 100th
vso&ftyijuxrof tvoccyX
a/*j9avo- year of Diocletianus, we take the
fM
tvta ano M
evotjtptai; tuf rrj( years of Menophres to the end of
\yiea(ACyovarovSutvra im- the era of Augustus. These years
• The treatise containing the demonstration of this rule, 1believe is lost.
U u
Digitized by Google
330 CHRONOLOGICAL FRAGMENTS.
m v a y l p t a ia t e n j l * ‘~
i t p o r r A m p m tA A *i - n j( i p -
X V ( A»«cXijT»ayoE enj p' y/-
v o y r c u l / x m f T i j .c ttp t. Tou'tuv
Xa/s/JeLojuev to &°' p d p o (, 2
l < m u k j-'. T outoi{ x p o r r i -
& i r r t ( r jp ilp a f v i n e , y t y o r r a i
v X a . ‘A v l t w J t v v i ^ x ) J y T f (
Tck{ t2 t6 T tT p a r r r jp tb a s o to -a p
p P , \t> ix lv x a z a X r i i t o v T a i
p a i TX&7, T a irra f A toX otop
a 770 © 0 ) & > ! S lS o 'v T ff (v jilT T U
/« |vl rjfitpixf A , «{ cipltuo’&eu
rr)» iiriToXijy I x i r d f J A io-
xX tjtiouw ‘E x i t p l K&*.
Xoltl lx) OTOl&JXOTf Xfirov.
summed up are 1605 ; to which if we
add the 100 years from the beginning
of the reign of Diocletianus,* we have
1705. Let us take the fourth part of
these, that is 426, and taking them
as days, f add to them 5 more, and
they become 431. From these deduct
the quadrienniums, which are 102,
and there will remain 329 days. Dis
tribute these into months of 30 days
each, from Thoth, the first day of the
year, and it will thus be found that
the rising of the Dogstar in the 100th
year of Diocletianus, falls upon the
29th of Epiphi. Use the same rule
for any other time.—MS. Ex cod.
reg. Gall. gr. No. 2390, fol. 154.
* The era of Diocletianus was a new era, which succeeded that ofAugustus,
f The fourth part or number of leap years gives, of course, the number of
intercalated days, 426.
J Qy. t o ! ( .
Digitized by G o o g l e
AN
I N Q U I R Y
INTO THE
METHOD, OBJECTS, AND RESULT
OF
ANCIENT AND MODERN PHILOSOPHY,
AND INTO
THE TRINITY OF THE GENTILES.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by GoogI
PHILOSOPHICAL INQUIRY.
In the Introductory Dissertation I have ventured to offer some
speculations upon the Trinity and Theology of the Gentiles,
which differ widely from the opinions of almost all who have
written upon the subject; I would therefore lay before the reader
such grounds for the opinion as have induced me to adopt it.
But I find it impossible to do so without instituting a short com
parative inquiry into the method, objects and result of the an
cient and modern systems of Philosophy; and I trust it will not
be deemed misplaced, for I conceive that in the neglected writings
of the ancients there lies concealed a mine of metaphysical know
ledge of such practical utility as would amply repay the trouble
of opening it again.
If we were to ask, what was conceived to be the great engine
of invention and discovery among the ancients, it is highly pro
bable we should be answered that it was Syllogism; and if we
were to ask the same question relative to modern science, we
should be unhesitatingly assured that it was Induction; and pos
sibly at the same time we might be told, that the method of the
ancients was something worse than useless. Yet, when we come
to consider, that in all ages human nature has been the same, and
that such admirable productions have been the result of human
effort both in ancient and modern times, we shall find reason to
suspect that the methods of discovery, or the tools really used in
all ages, have been mufch alike, though their names may have been
Digitized by G o o g l e
331 PHILOSOPHICAL
misapplied, or they may have been used without having had any
distinct appellations assigned them.
By the Inductive method we are supposed to go about to
collect, by experience and observation, all the facts and circum
stances within our reach, relative to the subject in hand. We
must examine them in every light, compare their similarities, and
mark their differences; we must reject whatever does not properly
relate to the subject, and conclude upon the affirmatives that are
left. By these means, from the individuals we rise to some
general proposition, and we rest assured in its truth as proved
experimentally.
To take a common instance : A child that has been burnt by
a flame naturally expects the same result from the same cause;
indeed he is said to feel sure of it from experience: and in the
expectation of the same result from similar causes, he is said to
reason by a species of Induction, though not founded on an en
larged experience. But by trying experiments upon all objects
which have the appearance of flame, he would learn to distinguish
such as are hurtful from such as are otherwise, and excluding
those that are harmless, he arrives at the conclusion, that all such
objects of a particular kind are hurtful.
Now, in this statement of the process, it appears to me that
two very different instruments are used; the first of which seems
to be Analogy, &va\oyta, a reasoning upwards from the known to
the unknown, the great instrument of Invention and Generaliza
tion, which provides, as it were, subjects for the exercise of In
duction ; which Induction, Inayayy, seems to be rather the col
lection and examination of experiments, and the drawing a con
clusion therefrom; and as this conclusion cannot be extended
beyond what is warranted by the experiments, the Induction is
an Instrument of Proof and Limitation. A person that has been
burnt by a flame is positively certain that he will be burnt again
if he try it; he argues only from same to same, and is sure of it
by experience; and it is upon this innate natural expectation that
all physical science is founded. By analogy he argues that all
flames will burn him, he argues from like’to like, he generalizes
Digitized by Google
INQUIRY* 335
and draws an inference; and I conceive it is by this analogical
reasoning that all science is advanced. The inference which he
thus draws a priori, is merely an hypothesis, a supposi
tion, probable indeed, but far from satisfactory. But when he
brings it to the proof by induction, and collects experiments, he
either confutes, proves, or limits this hypothesis to something
not quite so general.
This analogical reasoning, when it is extended only from in
dividual to individual of the same species, is commonly called
experience, and not analogy; and from the perfect uniformity of
nature, perhaps not improperly: thus, we say, we know by ex
perience that all stones gravitate to the earth. But when we ex
tend it from species to species of the same genus, it is analogy
properly so called. If from the gravitation all stones we reason
to that of apples, we reason by analogy, from like to like; we
obtain a probable conclusion, not satisfactory till experiment be
directed to the point, and it be proved. Having thus included
apples as well as stones, we may proceed from one species to
another by the same process of analogy and proof, till all bodies
upon the surface of the earth be included under the general law
of gravitation, whence we may rise to more general propositions.
And I am inclined to think that such has been the common pro
cess of discovery in all ages of the world.
When Sir I. Newton, from the fall of an apple, was led to
the consideration of the moon’s gravity, he is said to have made
the discovery by Induction; which is true as far as the proof of
it went. But it is manifest, that at first he merely formed a pro
bable hypothesis by Analogy, and then laboriously brought it to
the test of observation; and it is highly probable that the hy
pothesis he formed was, that the moon gravitated to the earth
with a constant force, instead of a force varying inversely as the
square of the distance; which most likely was the result of an
other hypothesis, after he had proceeded so far as to ascertain
that she did really gravitate, but not according to the law pre
sumed.
When Harvey observed the valves in the veins he is com-
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
33C PHILOSOPHICAL
monly said to have made the discovery of the circulation of the
blood, by reasoning from Final causes, or by asking of nature for
what purpose such valves could be intended: but perhaps he
might have asked the question for ever, unless the analogy be
tween the valve and that of a pump had suggested a plausible
hypothesis, which he proved by repeated experiments directed to
the point.
Analogy, so much slighted and overlooked, and to which such
an inferior part in the advancement of science has been assigned,
and that too with so much suspicious caution, appears to be the
great instrument of generalization and invention by which hy
potheses are supplied, which are most commonly the subjects for
the exercise of Induction. By Induction, as usually understood,
we make it a rule to exclude all hypotheses : first of all, we col
lect the experiments, and having obtained these, we are next to
examine them and compare them; we reject the irrelative and
negative, and conclude upon the affirmatives that are left. By this
means, says Lord Bacon, we question nature, and conclude upon
her answers: yet I would venture to suggest, that, ninety-nine
times out of a hundred, the Analogy or comparison precedes
the collection of the experiments; some resemblance is observed,
some hypothesis is started, which is the subject that is brought to
the test of Induction. By this the hypothesis is either proved, or
confuted, or more commonly limited to something less general.
I would not be understood to assert that the common inductive
method is barren, for, no doubt, discoveries are sometimes so
made; but thousands and thousands of inventions are brought
into play, the result merely of analogy and a few experiments, or
a single experimentum crucis. By the common method proposed
we take too wide a range, we embrace the whole subject at once,
and require the completion of its natural history, but by the
proper use of Analogy as a guide, we step cautiously but from
one species to the next.
Induction has two instruments of operation; Experiment for
all things within our reach, and Observation for those beyond us.
And of these Observation is less efficient than Experiment, for it
Digitized by
INQUIRY. 337
is comprehended in it. By Induction without Analogy we first
ask innumerable irrelative and impertinent questions of nature,
and then make use of Observation upon the experiments in hand;
but by Induction with Analogy we try Experiments for a specific
purpose, and obtain specific answers to the point.
Having thus obtained a general law or fact for an entire
genus, we may proceed in the same manner from this genus to
the next, till the whole order be included under the same or
some more general law : thus at length we may arrive at certain
most general laws, beyond which it may not be within our power
to proceed. And the progress of science in the ascending scale
consists in rising from Individuals to Generals and Universals.
Having obtained these general laws or universals, from them
we may extend discovery in what may be termed the descending
scale: and here Syllogism, in its common acceptation, has its
use. Thus, in the science of mixed Mathematics, having obtained
certain general laws, physical facts, &c., these, with the common
principles of pure mathematics, serve as data from which mathe
matical discovery may be extended downwards. Every mathe
matical demonstration by Synthesis is no other than a chain of
Syllogism. And as an instrument of invention Syllogism may in
this case supply corollaries; as in the former, Induction might yield
discoveries without the help of analogy. Yet a very slight con
sideration will show, that here also Analogy is the-great engine of
invention by which hypotheses or suppositions are supplied;
and that in the descending scale Syllogistic Demonstration, as
Induction in the ascending, is the grand instrument for confuting,
proving, or limiting those hypotheses.
But among the ancients Syllogism is said to be the great en
gine of discovery: and though I have not had sufficient oppor
tunities ofinvestigating the truth of the supposition, it has often
struck me, that by the Syllogistic method the ancients meant
neither more nor less than this combination of Analogy and Proof;
and that the method of reasoning from Individuals to Universals,
was supposed to be conducted by Syllogism no less than from
Universals downwards. Aristotle expressly informs us that we
x x
Digitized by U j O O Q l e
338 PHILOSOPHICAL
can leam nothing but by Induction or Demonstration; by De
monstration from universals to particulars, i. e. in the descending
scale; by Induction from particulars to universals, or in the
ascending scale. Hence, says he, a person who is defective in any
of his senses cannot use Induction, and therefore cannot theorize
to Universals, or by abstraction obtain general propositions, hence,
also, his progress in the scale of Demonstration must be equally
defective with his data. Now if the Syllogistic method was held
to be the only method of discovery among the ancients, and this
method was a process of reasoning from known to unknown, I
conceive that, in this respect, the terms must have a more com
prehensive signification than is generally allowed.* Though I
can find nothing to warrant the supposition, that they accurately
divided their Syllogistic method into Analogy and Induction in
the ascending scale, and into Analogy and Demonstration in the
descending scale; yet I think they imagined, as has generally
been the case in modern times, that by their method they went
precisely to the point, and no further; instead of going something
beyond it by too extensive a generalization, as we are led by
Analogy, and then retracting to the point determined by the
Proof.
The great abuse of Analogy is resting in its hypotheses with
out bringing them to the test, and building systems upon such
hypotheses ; and it is a fault of modern, as well as of ancient phi
losophers. But when we consider the Eleatic or Dialectic method
ofexamining any proposed hypothesis or idea, explained by Plato
in the beginning of the Parmenides, we shall find the rules of
examination as strict, and perhaps more comprehensive, than any
method that has been suggested in modern times.f
* Some papers, entitled Vindiciae Antiques, in the Classical Journal, throw
some light upon this subject, though I cannot concur with the author of them in
his opinions of the perfection of ancient science, much less in his abuse of modem
philosophers.
•j The method is this—Either, I., The subject is, as it is supposed ; or II,
it is not. On the first supposition that it is so, we must examine w h a t happens—
1st. To it with respect to its e lf: 2d. To it with respect to all other th in g s:
3rd. To all other things with respect to i t : 4th. To all other th in g s with re-
Digitized by L.ooQle
INQUIRY. 339
Another more fatal abuse of Analogy is arguing from indi
viduals to genera, or from genus to genus, when these genera'are
too remote ; whichis skipping to generalities instead of cautiously
proceeding from species to species. But the most dangerous of
all is arguing from Matter to Mind, between which there is no
natural similarity. Thus, the common supposition of the Mind de
termined by motives, as a balance swayed by weights is false; for
so far from arguing from like to like, from species to species, we
argue not even from genus to genus in the most remote degree,
but from one thing to its contrary; false, also, in as much as the
motive is a final cause, and the weight an antecedent. This ob
jection, however, to the use of Analogy may be pushed too far:
but of the proper use of suph reasoning we have an example in
one of the finest metaphysical works in the English language,
Butler's Analogy.
I would observe, also, the great laxity in the significations of
the word Theory. It is sometimes used for a general law or
principle obtained by Induction, and as something almost sy
nonymous with hypothesis. In this view it might be looked upon
as a proved hypothesis; in its other and more general significa
tion it implies the chain of reasoning from general laws and prin
ciples, and sometimes the result of such a chain. Its real sig
nification seems to be the Survey itself.* In the descending
scale the result of the survey is termed a Theorem, : and
in the ascending scale the general law obtained, the result of the
survey, might perhaps likewise be termed a Theorem: whilst
spect to them selves. Four similar cases will result when we examine what does
not happen ; and four more, when we examine what does, a nd a t the same tim e
does not happen. Upon the supposition th a t it is so, we must investigate its re
lations in all their bearings; and we must pursue the same method of investiga
tion upon the second supposition, that i t is not so. And if it were done according
to certain categories, a more thorough investigation could not possibly be devised:
and the method is equally applicable to Experimental philosophy as to Intellec
tual science. For a method of obtaining ideas for examination, see a description
of Socrates among some hopeful pupils in one of the comedies of Aristophanes.
* See an excellent paper upon the subject in Blackwood’s Magazine,
August, 1830.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
340 PHILOSOPHICAL
the Theory, Sueupla, the Survey itself, may be taken for the whole
chain, which, as it proceeds, every now and then, as it were, de
posits these theorems. From one or more general laws or data
we deduce certain results or theorems, such as the different ex
pressions for the range, velocity &c. of a shot, in the theory of
Projectiles : and each of these expressions would be practically,
as well as theoretically true, but for the innumerable other cir
cumstances to be taken into consideration. It is therefore only
an approximation to practical truth. From a certain other
set of general laws we deduce a theory of Resistances, and by a
combination of these two Theories we approximate still nearer to
practical truth. And by adding theory to theory relative to the
powder, form, texture, elasticity, &c. of the shot, climate, &c. &c.
and other circumstances, we might still nearer approximate.* And
all these Theories taken together might be termed the Theory of
Gunnery.
An Hypothetical system differs from a Theory as does an
Hypothesis from a General law or Fact, and is dependant upon
Hypotheses instead of Facts ; and its productions are of the same
description.
• It is utterly impossible, upon the surface of this earth, by Theory, to ar
rive at practical results, even in the most simple of all practical sciences, Me
chanics ; particularly, as it sometimes happens, when the results of each Theory,
instead of being Theorems, are themselves merely approximations. Of this the
ancients were perfectly aware, for both in ascending and descending, they ex
cluded the individuals, as objects of sense and not of science. Much less is
it possible in Politics, or any other moral or intellectual science; where not
only so few general laws, universals, or data, are ascertained, but the springs
of action are so manifold and various, independently of the free-will and per
versity of the individuals, that human intellect can scarcely hope to form even
a likely approximation to the truth. The speculative philosopher, as is
justly observed by Stewart, possesses a fund of knowledge, invaluable in all
untried cases, which will guide him a certain way in approximation to the
truth. But if he suppose that such theoretical principles are applicable to prac
tice, of course he fails in every instance, and produces nothing but confusiou and
mischief; of which the state of this kingdom, at this moment, is a most lament
able proof: and the probable result of persevering in such a course cannot be
contemplated without the utmost alarm, the more anxiously, as many of the
systems still acted on are not true theories, but are built upon false principles and
are merely hypothetical systems.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
INQUIRY • 341
Thus far I have spoken of the Method of proceeding, and I
have used the terms Laws, Facts, Universals, and the like, in
their common acceptation. But these terms are so confounded
with each other and with Causes and Effects, that we scarcely
know what we are in search of; and some of the ablest views of
Bacon’s Novum Organum have become almost as much lost to
the world, as have some of the very finest speculations of the
ancients. I would therefore say a few words upon the Objects
or Aim of science.
Causation is a subject upon which there is a strange mis
understanding between the ancients and moderns. By the word
Cause the ancients appear to have understood that without the
co-operation of which no sensible phenomenon could be pro
duced :* and they divided Causes into the Efficient, the Formal,
the Material, and the Final. And this division was excellent,
and in perfect keeping with a system which held a Soul of the
world as the prime mover of Efficient causes. The Final cause
or ultimate object and end of every action, I shall dismiss without
further consideration, as less properly a cause than a motive,
and equally admitted in all systems in which nothing is referred
to chance, and as unconnected with the Physical subject I have
now in hand.
This division of causes has been supposed to be superseded
among the moderns; and, since the time of Hume, by the word
Cause they seem sometimes to understand the Bond o f connexion
between one event and its preceding; and in this view it is as
serted that no causes of things have ever been discovered; and
that science lies not in the discovery of causes, but only in the
discovery of the facts and general laws of nature ; and the same
* See the 67lh epistle of Seneca, wherein he explains the common and
Platonic division of causes, and nnjustly arraigns both, because he conceives
Space, Time, and Motion, ought to be included. Motion, however, is included
in the Efficient Cause, and Space and Time are but the measures of that motion,
and the Law of the Motion, when strictly limited and defined, involves conside
ration of the measure only, and of nothing else.
Digitized by L.ooQle
3 4 2 PHIIfOSOPHICAL
assertion is likewise made, because no one can pretend to have
discovered the first of secondary causes. In another view the
Cause is looked upon as implying nothing more than an ante
cedent phcenomenon, and that these phenomena, under the names
of Cause and Effect, are continued in an endless chain of suc
cessive connexions. For example, when we hear a clock strike,
if we attend to the chains of successive causes—to go no farther
back—they may he traced in the stroke of the hammer, which
causes the vibration of the bell, which causes the undulatory
movement among the particles of the air, which causes a vibratory
motion on the organs of hearing and on the brain; a certain sensa
tion follows, and the soul perceives that the clock has struck.
Now, for the production of this ultimate effect, we may observe
not only one, but three distinct chains of what the ancients would
call Causes. 1st. The chain of the material substances whose
matter is in contact with one another, and without which matter
the phaenomenon could not have been produced, viz. the matter
of the hammer, of the bell, of the air, of the auditorial nerve,
of the sensorium,* and these are the successive Material causes.
Again, each of these portions of matter is indued with certain
qualities, without which also the effect could not have been pro
duced ; and these depend upon what the ancients would call the
form, and they consist of the form, texture, elasticity, vibratory
and other qualities of the bell, of the air, nerve, &c. These are the
Formal causes. To these must be superadded the particular
accidents by which they are affected, viz., the fall of the ham
mer, the vibration of the bell, and the others, by which motion is
successively communicated: and of this chain of causes each
accident is nothing else than motion, modified by the body
through which it passes, and may be regarded as a proximate
Efficient cause. In this phaenomenon, therefore, we may trace
the Material, Formal, and Efficient Causes of the ancients; all
which are necessary for the production of the effect: and we may
• I use the term as Newton uses it, and not as Leibnitz in his dispute with
Clarke.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
i n q u i r y . 343
perceive that the ancient and modem doctrines upon the subject
of Causation may not be inconsistent with one another: but we
must carefully distinguish whether the Cause be defined as the
Accident itself, or the Instrument affected with the accident—
the Vibration of the bell, or the Bell in the act of vibrating.
Such is a general view of this phenomenon : but we may ob
serve still something more, relating to that Bond o fconnexion which
has been so great a stumbling-block among the moderns. When
we come more narrowly to inspect this triplicated chain of
Causes, between each link there is a joint, if I may so call it:
for instance, the aggregate motion of the hammer is, in the bell,
converted into atomic motion. Now this cannot be performed
simultaneously, though the manner or lam according to which it
is performed, escapes the observation of our senses. This is the
Latens Processus, or the latent process which Bacon is so anxious
to have investigated ; and it is often noticed among the ancients,
particularly by Plato in the Parmenides and Phaedo. The Latens
Schematismus of Bacon, the latent form or structure, refers to the
latent properties of the bodies, or other unknown circumstances,
through which motion is communicated. And as grosser bodies
are said to be incapable of contact, a kind of Latens Schematis
mus at every joint in the chain, becomes also an object of inquiry.
The inquiry into the Efficient cause, the Matter, the latent pro
cess, and the latent structure, constitutes Physics, according to the
notions of Bacon; Which differs but little from the ancient doc
trine. But, if we combine the two, we shall'have Physical science
to consist in investigating the Nature and the Continuity of the
Material, Formal, and Efficient causes, together with the Laws
according to which the chain of efficient causes is propagated,
and this, not only in the Links but in the Joints.* If it were done
* To this might be objected, that the common example of the ancient causes,
viz. of a founder casting a statue, does not quadrate with what I have advanced f
for in the example, the Efficient cause a quo is the Founder, the Material ex qua
is the brass, the Formal in quo is the shape. A more attentive consideration, how
ever, will show that it is only a particular case of the more general that I have
taken. The Platonists added to the above the Ideal or Exemplary cause,
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
344 PHILOSOPHICAL
through the successive links only, we should in a manner have
perfected the grand outline of science, through the more delicate
parts, the latent processes, and forms, and substances, at the
joints, which constitute the bonds of connexion, should forever
be concealed. Yet they need not be despaired of.
If it should be asked why it is thus to be presumed a priori,
that this triplicated chain of causes is continued throughout na
ture, the only answer to it is this,—that in every branch of science
which has been investigated, and is thoroughly understood, such
is the case; and as we can only reason but from what we know,
we reason by analogy, from this known to the unknown, and
draw a strong presumption in its favour. It may be false, and it
cannot be proved otherwise till all science is perfected ; but the
burden of finding and demonstrating an exception lies with its
opponents, who might thus confute or limit it.
In modern experimental Philosophy it is often laid down as a
maxim, that the Ians of nature are the only proper objects of
human inquiry: and all investigation of causes is stifled by the
dogma which maintains, that human nature is incapable of in
vestigating their nature—a strange fallacy, which seems to be an
ignoratio elenchi. The laws of nature, or general facts, as they
are called—under which obscure expressions are often included
the qualities of bodies as well as their matter and the accidents
by which they are affected—may be sufficient for the mathema
tician, as they afford the data from which his propositions may
depend. He can rise no higher than his data; nor is it within the
compass of his science to prove any simple physical proposition.*
In the brilliant discoveries of Sir Isaac Newton certain general
laws and qualities of matter gathered by induction, together with
the common principles of mathematics, form the data from which
the propositions of the Principia depend. And the discoveries
secundum quod, according to which it is fashioned, which commonly related to
the metaphysical, and not to the physical forms. It might also be objected, that
the Vacuum, Gravity &c. are at variance. I speak of them presently.
• We often meet with such attempts: all the mathematical proofs of the
parallelogram of forces, for instance, are vicious, and merely augments in a circle.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
INQUIRY. 345
deduced by mathematical operations may be pushed on by his
successors to a greater degree of accuracy and approximation to
the truth than they have been already, yet are they merely de
ductions and links in the descending chain and calculations of
effects. But among the data themselves is where we must look
for any great advancement of science.
In those branches of science which have attained to any de
gree of perfection, such as Mechanics, Acoustics and some others,
we are not content with the mere fact, but we attend to the suc
cessive links in the chain of accident, tracing the motion whence it
is derived, and to what it is communicated; and investigating also
the law according to which it is propagated: and we trace also the
chain of being, in the existence and contact of its matter, and in
its qualities and form, as in the example of the Bell. But, not
withstanding the mighty strides which modern science has taken
in the Operative division of Philosophy, it is manifest what little
real progress has been made in the Speculative division in the
ascending scale ; though every step therein opens almost a new
era of discovery.
I will now turn to the Result. That Matter or Substance,
by which Qualities are supported, exists, is one of the prime
articles of belief among mankind, though its existence can only
be inferred from the qualities which it upholds. And it is in this
branch, by the chemical resolution of compound substances into
more simple substances, that science has of late years made its
greatest advancement.
Chief of the Qualities o f Matter were resolved by the ancients
into its Form: and by the union of Form with Matter the Sen
sible world was supposed to be produced. As I endeavour to
bring forward those parts only of the ancient philosophy which
may be turned to account, I omit mention of their ingenious
metaphysical speculations upon the nature of Form and Matter,
Bound and the Boundless, and shall merely observe that the
system would naturally tend to resolve all the qualities of Matter
Y Y
Digitized by Google
3 46 PHILOSOPHICAL
into the pritnary ones of its Extension, Form, and the absolute
Hardness or Impenetrability of its component parts, substance, or
atoms.*
Besides the obvious formal qualities of matter, there are cer
tain other qualities, which may be termed supposititious, assumed'
or occult,f inasmuch as the words Elasticity, Colour, Inertia,
Gravity, and many others, are words conventionally assumed to
express some unknown causes of effects which have been traced
no higher, but which still remain desiderata to which the attention
of science should be directed; for they may perhaps be resolved
into some immediate formal cause, or into several intermediate
links in the chain of accidental causes, latent processes &c. Sir
Isaac Newton thus attempted to resolve the elasticity of Light,
as far as it concerned Reflection, into a latent process, the at
tractions of a fluid upon the surfaces of bodies.
• Of the ancients, the Epicureans alone are supposed to have held the exist
ence of atoms: if I mistake not, the Pythagoreans did likewise, though not
such a wilful democracy of Atoms as that of Epicurus ; nor am I aware that any
of the ancients held the infinite divisibility of matter. Neither of these opinions,
perhaps, can be brought to the test of proof, we can rest only in analogy; but I
think the accuracy of the results and calculations upon the Atomic Theory,
plainly induce us to prefer the atomic opinion, upon the same grounds that our
faith in the law of Gravitation is strengthened, by the accuracy with which the
Planetary movements coincide with their calculated courses, i.e . it rests upon ob
servation. The conclusion also, drawn by analogy in favour of atoms, from a
substance, always dividing and compounding at the same angle, is far superior to
an argument drawn from the infinite divisibility of a mathematical line; inasmuch
as it is a fair analogy between two physical propssitions : the latter is only a ma
thematical illustration of a physical proposition ; they are not at all of the same
kind; the subject under consideration is purely material, the illustration purely
ideal. The same may besaid of Euler’singenious argument, “ Allmatter isendued
with extension. It therefore possesses all the qualities of extension : one of
which is infinite divisibility." For it does not follow that because all matter is
endued with extension in the concrete, that it has all the properties of extension
in the abstract; only that it might have had, if it had pleased God to make it so.
f The occult qualities of Aristotle are not the nonsense usually fathered
upon him; but I prefer the word supposititious, i. e. hypothetical, not only to
avoid offence, but in better keeping with what I have written upon theory and
hypothesis.
Digitized by Google
INQUIRY. 347
Again, in the phenomenon of Colour, the Metaphysical dis
tinction drawn between the Sensation and Perception by the Mind,
and the Quality of the body, which was the cause of that per
ception, between the redness with which the senses are affected,
and the supposititious quality of the body, which so operates upon
light as to produce that sensation and perception, cleared away
several strange incumbrances. But the grand discovery, that
redness or any other colour may be communicated to several
bodies by the mere alteration of their superficial texture, has
gone far to resolve the colouring quality into the texture or form
ofthe superficies, and to merge the supposititious and conventional
quality into a formal cause, one ofthe primary qualities of matter.
From the perception of colours we may trace the chain of antece
dent causes of Matter and Form through the optic nerve, through
the eye, to the light, to the coloured body, and again to the light.
And we may trace also the descending chain of accidents or mo
tion from the general unmodified motions of the light, as first
admitted into a chamber, before it strikes upon the body, its
alteration at the body, every point of which becomes a centre
from which a sphere of motion is propagated, of such a nature,
as, when passed through the eye and optic nerve, to produce the
perception of colour.
In England, till within the last few years, the Newtonian hy
pothesis of Light has had a very general ascendancy; but at pre
sent that of Huygens bids fair entirely to supplant it. From the
similarity which obtains in nature between one fluid and another,
I would venture to suggest, that these two hypotheses may not
be altogether and fundamentally opposed, but are capable of being
reconciled, at least in part; and that light has not only a pro
gressive, but a vibratory motion also: that to its progressive
motion are to be attributed the phaenomena of brightness, il
lumination, shadow and some instances of reflection: and that
upon its vibrations depend the phaenomena of colour, sight and
the like; and that the vibratory motion requisite for the pro
duction of Vision, is caused by the progressive, reflected, and
impeded motion of the sunbeams, by a change from the aggre-
Digitized by G o o g l e
318 PHILOSOPHICAL
gate progressive motion of the rays into the atomic vibrations of
the fluid. Such an hypothesis is afforded by the analogies of air
and water, in their progressive motions of wind and streams, and
in their vibratory motions of sound and waves. It is a fair hy
pothesis, which, if it be confuted when brought to the test of ex
periment by Induction, may afford some results upon which
something more plausible may be offered.
The most remarkable of the supposititious qualities of Matter
are Inertia, Gravity, and Attraction. The conceptions of Sir
Isaac Newton upon the subject of Gravity and Attraction are
perfectly clear and defined. He uses the words—not for the
effect itself, as Dr. Clarke in his controversy with Leibnitz affirms
—not for any inherent quality with which matter may be endued
—nor for any accidental motion with which it may be affected :
but he uses them merely conventionally for the antecedent cause
of the effect ofgravitation : whether the cause be a formal cause,
or whether it be motion or force communicated through an ante
cedent chain of being, or whatever it may be hereafter ascer
tained. By the universal effect of gravitation or the tendency
itself, proved by Induction from Experiment and Observation
upon bodies within our reach, and extended by Analogy confirmed
by Observation to the celestial bodies and those which are beyond
us, it is evident that such a cause exists: and the knowledge of
its existence, and of the lam according to which it acts, are suf
ficient for all the purposes to which in mathematics it can be
applied.
Sir Isaac Newton laid down as one of the rules of philoso
phizing, that no other causes ought to be introduced than such as
are true, and necessary to account for the phenomena. And he
followed his predecessors in maintaining the Inertia of Matter
as exerted in the first law ofmotion, as an inherent, though it may
be supposititious quality. But to account for the undiminished
motions of the planets he was compelled to assert a Vacuum, or
at least a quasi vacuum. Yet he hesitated to maintain Gravity
as an innate quality of matter, as it would be inconsistent with his
own ideas of causation, as expressed in his own rule. He there-
Digitized by Google
INQUIRY. 349
fore left directions to succeeding philosophers to seek its cause;
and pointed out as a fit subject for speculation an hypothetical
subtile ether, with which the supposed vacuum might be filled,
as capable of supplying the deficient links in the chain of causa
tion. Many of his professed followers, sufficiently alive to
the physical inconsistency, hesitated not to assert the absolute
vacuum, and gravitation as an inherent quality of matter ; not ad
verting to the insuperable metaphysical difficulty thus introduced,
that they eventually maintained two distinct and independent
chains of causation, continually crossing each other and assuming
each other’s offices : by one of which motion was communicated,
through matter in contact, by impulse and vibration, in endless
succession ; and by the other through vacuum by means ofoccult
qualities commonly so called ; by either of which the same effects
might be produced. Euler and most foreign philosophers, more
sensible of the real difficulty of the case, rejected without a
scruple such a version of Sir I. Newton’s opinions, upon the ex
press grounds, that two secondary causes of motion, one from
Inertia the other from Attraction, were utterly incongruous and
inadmissible: and such has generally been the opinion of all
Metaphysicians. Stewart, equally sensible of the same insuper
able difficulty, strangely proposes to resolve all such phenomena
into attractions and repulsions, upon the principles of Boscovich.
But I shall merely observe, that the experiments from which it is
deduced, that the grosser bodies never come into contact, prove
it only, because they prove, that there is some substance inter
vening.
If we turn our attention to the Chain of Accidents, we shall
find that it consists of Motion, which implies Force, communi
cated through different portions of the material world. And
here I would mark a distinction in the word Force or Power.
Where motion is actually produced, the Force by which it is pro
duced is nothing else than the Momentum, or quantity of motion
communicated from one body to another in a connected suc
cession. But there is often a Force exerted where no motion is
actually produced, the Force being counteracted in its effect. It
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
350 PHILOSOPHICAL
produces, however, a continual Stress and Endeavour, and is the
Cause of a continued series of such Stresses, Endeavours and
Tendencies among bodies in contact, and it is only requisite that
some impediment be removed, that motion may take effect.
All motion and tendencies may perhaps be ultimately traced
to the forces of Animals, Gravity, Inertia, and the Etherial
powers of nature.
The natural or common motion and pressure of Water is
evidently resolvable into the forces of Air, Gravity and other
causes. The natural or common motions and powers of the Air
may be again resolved into those of Gravity, Elasticity and Heat.
Galvanism, Electricity and certain Chemical phaenomena, might
perhaps, if science were properly directed to the investigation,
with little difficulty be resolved into a chain of varied accident or
motion of one and the same etherial fluid, of which fire is but
another form : inasmuch as chief part of the results appear to
be but the conversion of aggregate into some species of atomic
motion, and the reconversion of this atomic motion into aggre
gate. The phaenomena of Magnetism might perhaps be similarly
resolved. Now in these phaenomena the great dispute among
philosophers does not so much concern the chain of accident and
motion, as the chain of being through which the accidents are
propagated; whether the motion be communicated through the
grosser particles of matter, or through some subtile fluid which
pervades all nature, or through several different fluids endowed
with different properties, such as the Galvanic, Electric, Mag
netic and other fluids. From the sameness of many of their
effects, and from the consideration that they all appear equally
extended throughout the universe, if we should presume that
they were but one and tbe same fluid, we should start an
hypothesis indeed, but an hypothesis particularly worthy of at
tention, for unless such be the case we shall have in nature
several fluids co-extended through the universe, all of which can
perform each other’s offices, that is to say, several different causes
more than are necessary for the solution of the phaenomena.
Gravity, in the present state of science, is an anomaly in
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
IN Q U IRY . 351
nature, to which no parallel exists; for we are acquainted only
with its laws, without a trace of the antecedent proximate links
in the chains of Being, and Motion or Force. I have before
observed, that a Vacuum is purely an hypothesis; and it is an
hypothesis, resting not upon experiment or proof, nor even upon
any analogy in nature, but it is a deduction by a chain of argument
from the ascertained fact of the undiminished motions of the
planets, from the supposititious quality of the inertia of matter,
and from the unwarranted assumption, that perpetual motion can
only be sustained in vacuo; an assumption, chiefly taken from
a few experiments, in what may, without much difficulty, be
shewn to be the absolute plenum of an air-pump. But it is
far from evident that a man could move any one of his limbs if
it were placed in perfect vacuo ; whilst thousands of experiments
prove, that even a perpetual motion * might be preserved by
Fire, Steam, Air, Electricity and other powers of nature, but
for the wear and tear of the machinery, the lack of fuel and
other extrinsic circumstances: and this, in many instances, in
spite of friction; but in all, an absolute plenum of one or more
fluids is necessary for the production of the effect.
Of the Force of Animals, it may well be questioned whence
it is derived, whether it be originally communicated by the Soul
of the animal itself to the material world through its connexion
with the body, or whether the soul has power only to influence
and divert the motion and force with which that body may be
surrounded.
Of the Etherial powers of nature, I must observe, that
wherever a Fire is lighted, a wonderful kind of motion com
mences among the elements, very different from what can be
supposed to have been communicated by the agent that pro-
• When I say perpetual motion, of course, I do not allude to the frivolous
attempts often made to produce it by mechanical combinations acted upon by
gravity. If there were no friction ofthe machine or air, Gravity and Inertia would
always produce a perpetual motion in pendulums, or machinery whose centre of
Gravity is at rest; but it could produce nothing more. If, therefore, friction is to
be superadded, it must produce som ething less.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
352 PHILOSOPHICAL
duced the spark, or could have resided within the spark itself.
Light issues on all sides from the fire, and an incessant draft of
Air sets into it ; and there ensues a motion continually accumu
lating and increasing, and communicated to the{objects around
it; and instead of losing motion by such communication, the
longer it continues the more violent, intense and extended it
becomes, producing such a variety of movements by the descent
of walls and timbers, by the overthrow of houses, trees and all
obstacles within its reach, as to bid defiance to all ordinary rules
of action and re-action, cause and effect: “ and no man knoweth
whence it cometh, or whither it goeth.”
To the ancients who held the World to be their God, Matter
its body, and the Etherial powers of the heavens its soul, little
difficulty could occur in resolving the motions and forces of the
elements and gravity, as well as all individual animal force into
the powers of this present universal Deity. By such a solution,
it is true that the ancients completed and perfected their bastard
system of Physics; and reduced all causes to one simple tripli
cated chain: and the Efficient, the Formal and the Material
might be successively traced from the highest intellectual opera
tion to the lowest sensible phenomenon.
To us, however, who hold the Spiritual world perfectly dis
tinct from the Material, it must be the grand object of Philo
sophy to trace the chain of causes from matter to matter, to the
first of secondary causes. When a clock has struck, the vibra
tions are conveyed along the auditorial nerves to the Sensorium;
and according to other systems besides those of the Materialists,
motion is communicated to the Soul itself. Yet analogy, I may
say experience upon all natural bodies, would rather lead us to
presume that the motion, after a momentary concentration in the
sensorium, is again communicated through the brain and skull
to the surrounding air, and that no part of it can be lost to the
material world by being communicated to the immaterial.
The cause of Gravitation, whatever that may be, causes a
strain and tendency in every body which it does not actually put
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
IN Q U IR T . 353
in motion. By this a stress is exerted upon water in a vessel; by
which the like stress or pressure is exerted against the sides of
the vessel: and if one of its sides be removed, motion instantly
ensues. Now it is evident that this strain or stress, as well as
the motion, must be referred to the same cause. And if future
discovery should ever show that the antecedent link in the chain
of being through which this strain is propagated, is an etherial
fluid of the heavens, we should immediately conclude, that, ex
cept where motion was actually produced, there was a continual
strain.
In the legitimate use of analogy we are entitled to start such
an hypothesis: and it is the business of Philosophy to bring it
to the test of Experiment or Observation by Induction; by which
it may be confuted, proved, or limited to something less general.
But if on such an hypothesis we should argue that the unaccount
able effects of fire, in its wonderful motions before observed, are
to be resolved into the same force or strain impressed upon the
heavens—if, supposing no motion is communicated from the
material to the immaterial world, as far as we and other animals
are concerned, we should argue to the reverse, that no motion is
communicated from the immaterial or the souls of animals to the
material,* but that living creatures are only endowed with the
faculty of diverting and appropriating the force with which they
are surrounded—if we should argue that, in short, all motion
among material bodies may be ultimately traced to the etherial
powers of nature, so adjusted as to constitute the mainspring of
the machine of the universe ; that they are a fluid whose material
substance pervades every thing and all space, and perfects the
chain of being, endowed with no other qualities than those of
form, but impressed with a continued force which is not an in
herent quality, though it can be traced no higher; from which
all other force and motion amongst things are borrowed, and to
* Query! Might not the term Analogy be applied to arguments proceed
ing upon the relations of contiguity and contrast, as well as upon the relation
of resemblance?
Z Z
Digitized by G o o g l e
354 PHILOSOPHICAL
which they are again returned; and into whose operations may
be resolved not only the chain of accidents, bnt all the supposi
titious qualities of matter—or if, with the school of Hutchinson,*
we should resolve this force itself, this strain upon the heavens,
into the expansion caused by the motions of the Solar triad of
Fire, Light, and Spirit, three conditions of one etherial fluid; I
say, we should be tacking one supposition to another; we should
be weaving but an hypothetic system; we should be using analogy
not in its legitimate province, but, as Lord Bacon calls it, for the
purpose of anticipating nature; and we should be running into
the common error of the ancients, of proceeding from one step to
another without stopping to prove our progress.
• That all force is dependant upon the powers of the heavens
is no new hypothesis, but as old as Heathenism itself, for the
Heathens resolved all forces, both of nature and animals,- into the
powers of the etherial Soul of the universe: and the hypothesis
properly modified, may be even of still higher antiquity.
Nothing, perhaps, is more uniformly insisted on among the
Heathen, than that their Trinity was a triad subordinate to a
Monad ; which monad was clearly one of those two independent
principles,which were conceived to have existed before the forma
tion of the world, and was the Etherial Intellectual principle of
the Universe; which was in a manner superseded by the Triad.
The Triad is likewise maintained to be Phanes or Eros, the Sun;
the Soul and Ruler of the world.
To ascertain the persons of this triad, then, I shall merely
place the most ancient speculations upon the subject under one
another; but at the same time I would observe, that it is one of
those questions which, for want of sufficient evidence, is incapable
of being brought to the test of absolute demonstration.
• The discovery of the component gasses of the Air has overturned this system
in its original extent) yet I conceive that the substitution of the word Caloric for
Air might suggest a modification worthy of attention: but there are a great many
steps which must be proved before this part of the subject can be even approached
legitimately.
Digitized by Google
IXQUIBY. 355
From the different Orphic fragments we find that the Orphic
Trinity consisted of
Metis, Phanes, or Eros, Ericapseus.
which are interpreted
Will, or Light, or
Counsel, Love,
From Acusilaus,
Metis, Eros,
From Hesiod, according to Damasoius,
Earth, Eros,
From Pherecydes Syrius,
Eire, Water,
From the Sidonians,
Cronus, .Love,
From the Phoenicians,
Ulomus, Chusorus,
From the Chaldaean and Persian Oracles of Zoroaster,
Fire, Sun, Ether.
Fire, Light, Ether.
From the later Platorusts,
Power, Intellect, Father.
Power, Intellect, Soul or Spirit.
By the ancient Theologists, according to MaCrobius, the Sun was
invoked in the Mysteries, as
Power of Light of Spirit of
the world, .the world, the world.
To which may perhaps be added, from Sanchoniatho, the three
sons of Genus.
Fire, Light, Flajne.
Life, or
Lifegiver.
Ether.
Tartarus.
Spirit, or Air.
Cloudy darkness.
The Egg.
By omitting the Earth, Water, and other materials, which, in
the formation ofthe world, are elsewhere disposed of, and passing
ever the refinements of the Pythagoreans, who sometimes e$en
deviated so far as to place the raya&iv, the final cause, as the
Monad, and the three concauses as the Triad, I think we may find
in the above enumeration sufficient ground for maintaining the
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
356 PHILOSOPHICAL
opinion, that the persons of the Trinity of the Gentiles, viewed
under a Physical aspect, were regarded as the Fire, the Light, and
the Spirit or Air of the Etherial fluid Substance of the heavens:
which in a Metaphysical aspect were held to be no other than the
Power or Will, the Intellect or Reason, and the Spirit or Affections
of the Soul of the World; accordingly as the prior Monad was
contemplated in its Etherial or Intellectual subsistence.
Metaphysicians have at length approximated to a truth,
which, in the Metaphysics of Christianity, is laid down with as
much perspicuity and decision, as is the Immortality of the Soul,
or as any other of those points which have been so continually
agitated among philosophers, modern as well as ancient. The
distinction between the Intellect, and the Emotions or Affections,
to which, simple as it may appear, such laborious approaches
have been made through the mazy paths of Metaphysics, is
clearly drawn; and the respective seats of them are assigned, it
may be figuratively, but most naturally, to the Head and Heart.
The old division of the Mental Powers into those of the Will
and the Understanding, has long been superseded by the division
of the school of Reid into the Intellectual and Active Powers.
But under the name of the Active Powers, the Will and some
part of the Emotions have been also confounded by that school.
Later writers, who have drawn the distinction between the In
tellect and the Emotions, appear generally to regard the Will as
a subordinate appendage to the Emotions, connected perhaps
with the material structure of the Animal.
There is an ambiguity in the word Will or Volition, which
may be divided into the Wish, and into the Power to act. The
Soul thinks, wishes, acts ; and the Power to act appears, to me
to be a mental Power, as distinct from the Wish or any of the
Emotions, as it is independent of any material structure or
combination. We may conceive a disembodied spirit with the
Intellectual Powers, the Train of Thought only, without the
Emotions; and again such a spirit, with the Intellect and Emo
tions, without the Power of action; and such a being might be
susceptible ofevery sentiment terminating in contemplation, such
IN Q U IRY . 357
as all intellectual Tastes, Memory, Regret, and a variety of
others. Stewart, in his speculations upon persons dreaming,
supposes the Intellectual Powers with the Train of Thought in
exercise, while the Active powers are suspended. But, of the
Faculties and Powers which he confounds under that name, it is
manifest that the Emotions are not suspended: and though the
Power over the material frame is very generally unexercised
during sleep, it is a very singular phenomenon, that when the
Wish to do any particular action is notified, the Soul presently
takes it for granted that the deed required is actually done, and
the train of thought is influenced and diverted by some internal
power, though the wish is not really gratified. And there is
nothing more common in nature than to have the wish without
the power to act, or the power without the wish.
I speak only of the immortal and immaterial soul: but if we
look more closely into the matter we may observe, in the involun
tary motions of the body, in its animal appetites, sensations, and
desires, and perhaps in its perceptions, something of a material or
corporeal spirit or frame of life, acting independently, though
subject to the immortal soul, and whose operations appear to be
carried on solely by the powers of nature. And it is this which
appears to be so continually leading men astray into Materialism.
And herein Plato’s disposition is curious. He places the Intel
lect in the Head; a Soul endued with some of the passions, such
as fortitude, is supposed to reside in the Chest, about the Heart:
while another soul, of which the appetites, desires, and grosser
passions are its faculties, about the Stomach and Spleen. The
more refined Emotions he confounds with the Intellect; which I
believe is likewise the case with Kant.
The numerous passages in the Scriptures in which the Persons
of the Christian Trinity are shadowed forth by the same natural
and mental powers which I suppose to constitute the original
triad of the Gentiles, are too numerous to require to be speci
fically referred to.—The Father is continually typified as a Fire
accepting the sacrifices, consuming and punishing the guilty, as
the Lord of all power and might, to whom all prayers are com-
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
8 58 PHILOSOPHICAL IN Q U IRY .
monly addressed;—the Son as Light, as a Mediator and a Teacher,
enlightening the understanding, addressing himself more par
ticularly to the Intellect, pointing out the distinctions between
good and evil;—the Spirit, as Spirit or Air, a mighty rushing
wind, operating upon the Affections, Feelings, or Emotions. We
are commanded by the Christian faith to look to the Son for
knowledge, to obey his instructions, and to accept the conditions
of Salvation he has offered—to the Spirit, for grace to influence
us in all our feelings, wishes and intentions—and to the Father,
our prayers are to be directed for the power to act.
1 would not presume to lay stress upon any of the hypotheses
Xmay have advanced or adduced in this inquiry. Man is apt to
indulge his fancy in building systems which he conceives may set
forth the wisdom or magnify the power of his Creator; but when
be brings them to the test, and finds the truth itself, be finds it
infinitely more sublime than the happiest flight of his imagina
tion. Yet as we must necessarily take all our ideas, as well as
our language, from the sensible world—as we are taught that it
it is a glass, in which things spiritual are purposely, but darkly,
shadowed forth—and as we are assured that man is formed in
the express image of his Maker; I deem that we outstep not the.
bounds of true philosophy, when we humbly trace, in the glorious
works of the Almighty, a confirmation of his word.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
I NDEX
OF T H E
ABBREVIATIONS AND OP THE AUTHORS AND EDITIONS
CITED OR REFERRED TO.
See Introduction, p. lvii.
A. —Syncelli Codex Parisitinua (1711.)
Abydenus. See p. xiii.
Acusilaus, A. D. i.
Acusilaus, B. C. viii.
Asmilius Sura.
Africanua, A. D. ii.
A1—Alii. Others.
Alcibiades.
Alexander Polyhistor, B. C. ii.
Amelius, A. D. iii.
Ammonius Saccas, A. D. iii. ob. 232.
Anon.—Anonymous.
Anticlides.
Antiochenus—Theophilus.
Antoninus, ob. A. D. 161.
Apion, A. D. i.
Apollodorus, B. C. ii.
Apollonius Molo, or Melo, B. C. i.
Apollonius Rhodius, B. C. ii.
Aretes.
Argonautica—Orpheus
Aristarchus.
Aristophanes, B. C. v.
Aristoteles, B. C. iv.
Arius, A. D. iv.
Armenian.—Trans. Eusebius.
Arrianus, B. C. ii.
Artapanus.
Asclepiades.
Athenaeus, A. D. ii.
Athenagoras, A. D. ii.
Aucher, Ed. Arm. Eus. 1818.
Autolychum—Theophilus ad.
B.—Syncelli Codex Paris. (1764.)
Bacon, Adv. of Learning and Novum
Organum.
Bar-hebrseus Syriac Chron. Ed. Brun
and Kirsch. 1789.
Baa.—Basil, Ed.
Bekker, Ed. Plato.
Berossus, B. C. iv. See p. x.
Bentley, Epist. ad Mill, at the end of
the Oxf. ed. of Malala.
Big.—Lectiones Emend Bigotii.
Blackwood’s Magazine, Aug. 1830.
Bochart. Phaleg.
Bougainville, Maps and Papers in
Acad, des Inscrip. Vol. xxvi.
Bruce’s Travels.
Brunk, Ed. Aristophanes.
Bryant’s Mythology.
Calvisiua Chron. 1617.
Capell.
Casaubon, Ed. Strabo.
Cassandrus.
Castor, Rhodius, B. C. i.
Cedrenus, A. D. xi.
Censorinus, A. D. iii. Bonon. Bene
dict, 1487.
Chieremon, A. D. i.
Choronensis, Moses.
Chron.—Chronicle.
Chrysostomus, A. D. iv.
Cicero, B. C. i.
Clarke, S., Papers between him and
Leibnitz.
Classical Journal.
Clemens, Alex. A. D. H.
Clitarchus, B. C. iv.
Col.—Ed. Eusebius, Cologne, 1688, by
Vigerius.
CraL—Cratylus of Plato.
Creuzer.
Critodemus.
Cumberland’s Sanchcmiitttd.
Damascenus, Nicolaus.
Damascius, A. D. vi.
Digitized by Google
3 60 INDEX.
riif) Xfttait, De Principiis. Kopp,
1826.
In Parmenidem.
In Vitam Isidori.
D'Anville’s Atlas.
Dicssarchus, B. C. iv.
Dindorf, Ed. Syncellus.
Diodorus Siculus, B.C. i. Ed. Hanover,
1604.
Diogenes Laertius, A. D. ii. Ed. Stepb.
1593.
DIus.
Dodwell’sDissertation on Hanno’sPeri-
plus.
Ed.—Edition.
El.—MS. Josephus, from Library of
More, Bishop of Ely.
Enoch, SpuriousAntediluvian books of,
Epicurus, B.C. v.
Epigenes.
Epimenides, B. C. viii.
Epiphanius, A. D. iv.
Eratosthenes, B. C. ii.
Eu. A t .—Armenian Ed. Eusebius.
Eudemus.
Euemerus, B. C. iii.
Euler.
Eupolemus.
Eusebius, ob. A. D. 338.
ChronicleArmenianAucher, 1818.
Chronicle Scaiiger, 1658.
Praeparatio Evangelica, R. Ste-
phanus, 1544.—Vigerius, 1628.
— Cologne Ed. of Vigerius,
1688.
Ezekiel, Tragedy of.
Faber’s Pagan Idolatry, 1816.
Fabricius Bibliotheca Graeca.
Falconer, Ed. Hanno’s Periplus.
Ficinus, ob. A. D. J499.
De immortalitate animi.
De vita cselesd comparand.
Fr.—Codex Josephi, Lib. K. of France.
Fr. Patricius Nova Philosophia, 1591.
Gale.
Jamblichus.
Opuscula Mythologica, 1588.
Gallseus, Ed. Sibylline Oracles.
Gepner, Conr. Ed. Hanno’sPeriplus.
Goar, Ed. Syncellus.
Gronovius, Ed. Plinius.
Grodus.
Hafn.—Codex Hafniensis (Copenha
gen) of Josephus.
Hamb. MS. Hamburgensis of Da-
mascius.
Hanno’s Periplus. See Int. p. xxvii.
Ed. Falconer, 1797.
Hecataeus Milesius, B. C. vii.
Hellanicus, B. C. v.
Heraiscus.
Heringa.
Herman.
Hermes,Genesisof.—AncientEgyptian
Recotds.
Hermetic Books, Ancient from Jambli
chus, Modern from Fr. Patricius.
Hermias, A. D. vi.
Herodotus, B.C. v. Ed. Oxon. 1817.
Hesiodus, B. C. ix.
Hiempsal.
Hieronymus.
Hieronymus, A. D. iv. Vers. Euseb.
Chron. Ed. Scaiiger, 1658.
Homerus, B. C. x.
Horapollo, A. D. iv.
Hudson, Ed. Josephus, 1720.
Hume.
Hutchinson.
Jablonski Pantheon jEgypdacum.
Jackson’s Chronology.
Jamblichus, ob. A. D, 333, Ed. Gale.
Jones of Nayland, Essay, 1762.
Josephus, A. D. i. Ed. Hudson, 1720.
Isidorus, A. D. vi.
Julianus Chaldaeus, A. D. ii.
Julianus Theurgus, A. D. ii.
Julianus Imperator, A. D. iv.
Kant.
Kirsch, Ed. Syriac Chronicle.
Kopp, Ed. Damascius.
Kuster, Ed. Suidas.
Lat.—Ladn translation.
Leibnitz.
Linus.
Lobeck Aglaopliamus, 1829.
Lowth, Bishop. . . .
Lydus, De Mensibus MS. 2 y *
7
Lysimachus. '
M.—Margin.
Macrobius, A. D. iv. Ed. Bipont, 1788.
Malala, A. D. vii. Ed. Oxon. 1691.
Manetho, B.C. iii.
Marg.—Margin.
Marcellus.
Marcellinus Ammianus, A. D. iv.
Marsham’s Chronology.
Megasthenes, B. C. iv.
Menander Ephesius.
Mochus.
Molo Apollonius.
Digitized by
INDEX. 3 6 1
Monacensis (Munich) MS. of Damas
cus.
Montacutus, Rd.
Moses Choronenaia.
MS.—Manuacript.
Newton, Principia.
Nicephorua, A. D. xiv.
Nicolaus Damaacenua, B. C. i.
Ocellus Lucanus, B. C. v.
Olympiodorus.
. In Phaedon. MS.
Olympius, A. D. vi.
Om,—Omits.
Onomacritua.
Orellius, Ed. Sanchoniatho, 1826.
Orethres. •
Orpheus.
Oxon.—Oxford Editions.
Parmenides of Plato.
Paschal Chronicle, A. D. iv.
Paterculus, Velleius, A. D. i.
Patricius, Fr.—NovaPhilosophia, 1591.
Perizonius.
Pherecydes Syrius, B. C. vii.
Philo Byblius.
Philo Judaeus, ob. A. D. 42.
Philoponus, A. D. vii.
Philostratus.
Photius, A. D. ix. Bibliotheca.
Picus of Mirandula.
Conclusiones. See his works.
Plato, B.C. iv.
Pletho.
Flinius, A. D. i.; Gron. 1669.
Plotinus, ob. A. D. 270.
Plutarchus, A. D. ii.
Polemo, B. C. iii.
Pomponius Mela, A.D. i.
Porphyrius, ob. A.D. 303.
Porter’s, Sir R. K., Travels.
Priscianus, A. D. vi.
Proclua, ob. A. D. 485.
In Alcibiadem. •
Cratylum.
Euclidem.
Parmenidem.
Politics.
Timssum.
Theologiam Platonia.
Ptolemaeus Geographus, A.D. ii.
Ptolemseua Mendesiua, A. D. i.
Pythagoras, B. C. vi.
Qy.—Query.
Reid.
Richter, De Berosso.
Sallustiua, B. C. i.
Salmaaiua, ob. A.D. 1653. Notse.
Sambuci Exemplar, Imperial library
v. Hud. Jos.
Sanchoniatho. See p. viii.
Scaliger, Ed. Eusebius Chron., &c.
Scylax, B. C. vi. Periplus.
Seneca, ob. A. D. 65, Ed. Morell.
Serranus, Ed. Plato.
Sextus, Hyp.
Sibylline Oracles, Ed. Gallseua.
Simplicius, A. D. vi.
Solinus, A. D. i.
Stanley’s Lives of the Philosophers.
Stephanus, R. Ed. Euseb.
Stephanus, H.
Stobseus, A. D. iv.
Strabo, ob. A. D. 25, Ed. Amsterdam,
1707.
Suidas, A. D. x. Ed. Kuster.
Symmachus, A.D. iv.
Syncellus, Georgius, A. D. viii. Ed.
Dindorf, 1829.
Synesius, A. D. v. De insomniis.
Syrianus.
Tacitus, A. D. ii.
Taylor, Ed. Oracles of Zoroaster, v.
Class. Journ. No. 32.
Tatianus, A.D. ii.
Thallus.
Theon, Alexandrinus, A. D. iii.
M. S. Codex Paris. (2390.)
Theophilus Antiochenus, A. D. ii. Ed.
Oxon.
Timseus Locrus, B.C. vi.
Timseus. Plato’s.
Timotheus.
Valpy, Ed. Stephani Thesaurus.
Varro.
Vat.—Vatican MSS. 8tc.
Velleius Paterculus, A. D. i.
Vet. Int.—Vetus Interpretatio.
Vigerius, Ed. Eusebius Prsep. Ev.
Vossius, Gerrard, J. De historicis, 1677.
Vossius, Isaac.
Usher, Abp. Chronol.
Vulg.—Vulgo.
Walknaer.
Wolfius.
Zendavesta.
Zoroaster.
Digitized by
E R R A T A .
P. v. 1. 20,fo r hypothesis read hypotheses.
1. 23,/or hypothesis read hypotheses.
Yi. 1. 17,/or hypothesis read hypotheses,
vii. L 2,fo r hypothesis read hypotheses,
xix. note *,/or 170 read 165.
xxrii. 1. 19,fo r Nebucbadnesser rea d Nebuchadnezzar,
xxxii. 1. 14, fo r 1641 read 1461.
----- , 1.15, fo r 1640 read 1460.
x x x y . 1. 3,fo r loveliness read loneliness.
21, line 18,/or that read and says that.
40.1. 15, fo r Appion read Apion.
64.1. 1, f o r Cselo-Syria read Ccelo-Syria.
108.1. 8, fo r Among rea d After.
149.1. 10, dele have.
172, note §, fo r Sec Dyn read See Dynasties.
204, note f, fo r Gem read Gesn.
239, note •, 1. 4, fo r 8th read 9th.
240, note I, fo r p. 4 read p. 5.
244, note f, line 3, fo r or Mixed read and the Mixed.
250, note f, fo r Syonches read Synoches.
268, 1
. 13, fo r whether read either.
295, 1. 20, fo r as dazzling read as the dazzling.
324.1. 2 & 4, Heraclitus occurs in some copies instead of
Herodotus.
344.1. last, fo r augments read arguments.
346, note •, 1. 7, fo r induce read induces.
327,fo r presente read Prsesente.
328, 1. 1, fo r Brutius read Brutius Praesens.
— , 1. 26,fo r Vergilia read Vergilise.
At p. 84 add the following line:
lo r n 'H paxkhtri; irq is called Heraclides. He reigned 18 years.
FAINTED BY T. G. WHITE AND CO.
C n u Court, F lnt Stm t,
LONDON,
Digitized by L x O O Q l e
