{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__jervis___remarks_in_refutation_of_extraordinary_story_of_supernatural_appearance.pdf","mytitle":"Remarks In Refutation Of Extraordinary Story Of Supernatural Appearance","mylang":"de"}
R E M A R K S
IN REFUTATION OF
an extraordinary story
z>. % ' '
OF A
s u p e r n a t u r a l a p p e a r a n c e ,
RELATED BY
The Rev. RICH ARD W AR NER, F.A .S.
IN HIS
“ LITERARY RECOLLECTIONS J
By t h e R e v . THOMAS JERVIS.
ST. PAUL’S CHURCH”YARD.
1832.
/
/
*
*y
i
PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,
RED MON COURT, FLEET STREET
To John D isney, Esq.
M y D e a b S ir ,
As to you I am indebted for drawing my attention,
several months ago, to a statement of some circum­
stances in the “ Literary Recollections ” of the Rev.
Richard Warner; I make no apology for troubling you
with a few observations resulting from the perusal of
that gentleman’s account of, what he calls, “ a singular
fact/’ connected with an interesting event which took
place many years since, in the family of the late Mar­
quis of Lansdowne, at Bowood Park.
The work referred to contains much to approve, and
much to admire; it is fruitful in biographical anecdote,
and in lively and pertinent remarks upon men and
manners, expressed with point and energy; in which
the writer has displayed the happy talent of arresting
the attention of his readers, while he combines instruc­
tion with amusement. I am, however, compelled to
add, that the satisfaction which many parts ofit afforded
me, was not wholly unmixed or unalloyed. Not having
the pleasure of his personal acquaintance, my know­
ledge of Mr. Warner is grounded on the reputation he
has justly established by the various productions of his
fertile pen, which has often been honourably and suc­
cessfully employed, in adding to the common stock of
useful knowledge and improvement, stimulated by an
ardent zeal in the cause of piety and virtue. With
high respect for his character, it is not without consi­
derable reluctance that I undertake the ungracious task
of animadverting upon anything that he has advanced.
But I trust he will be disposed to receive my observa­
tions with candour, and consider them as proceeding,
not from a disposition to cavil, but from a sincere re­
gard to truth, and an earnest desire to maintain it.
a 2
4
Mr. Warner does not profess to have h
knowledge of the circumstances which
to have given them merely upon hearsay evidence }
a case therefore where he has manifestly been led
involuntary errors by the overheated imagination,
fanciful representations of others, I am persuaded h
e
will readily admit the propriety of correcting themb
y
an accurate statement of facts.
The traits of character interspersed through the foh
lowing pages, and more particularly developed in th
e
.conclusion, have arisen out of the detail of circum
.
stances, of peculiar interest to myself, and which cannot
be wholly uninteresting to those who are capable of
appreciating the value of high intellectual endowment*,
or who love to contemplate the fairest forms of m
oral
excellence, purity, and innocence.
In connexion with the present subject, you will n
ot
think it strange that my mind reverts to another a
n
d
more recent instance of domestic privation* The sim
i­
larity which, in some points, may be traced will natu­
rally awaken in your breast, as it has in mine, th
e
recollection of an event in which you were yourselfm
ost
nearly and painfully concerned. But I forbear totouch
further upon a circumstance so deeply interesting to
you, fearing to open afresh those wounds which tim
e
has in some degree healed, and for which reflection
alone can find an adequate remedy.
I have only to hope that the following remarks will
.be found to have been dictated in the spirit of Christian
.moderation, and expressed in that tone of liberality a
n
d
,courtesy which should ever regulate and harmonize the
.mutual intercourses and communications ofliterarym
en.
I am, my dear Sir,
Very sincerely Yours,
■
dny personaj
he relates, but
Brompton, July 1831.
EXTRACT
From Mr. Warner9
s 11 "Literary Recollections."
“ M y sincere respect for the memory o f the Rev. Joseph
Townsend, would, were I to follow its impulse, lead
me into a length o f remark upon his character and at­
tainments, incompatible with the nature o f my work:
I will therefore close this biographical sketch with the
communication o f a very singular fact, related to me,
in the first instance by h im ; but which has since been
confirmed, by a voucher scarcely to be resisted,*—an
indisputably true report, of D r, Alsop’s viva voce de*
claration on his dying bed.
“ Lord W illiam Petty was the third son of the old
Marquis of Lansdowne, and brother o f the present
highly gifted Lord o f Bowood. He had attained the
age of seven or eigh t years; as remarkable for the
precocity o f his understanding, as he was unfortunate
in the delicate state o f his constitutional health* The
Marquis, called to London by his parliamentary duties,
had left the child at Bowood, for the winter, with Mr.
Jervis his tutor, and suitable domestics. The late Dr,
Priestley also, the Marquis’s librarian, made one of the
party. On an ill-omened day, beautiful and brilliant,
6 f
but intensely cold, the gam ekeeper, in compliance wift |
Lord W illiam’s request, took the lad before him 0a
horseback. His Lordship rode w ith h is waistcoat open
and chest exposed, and an inflam m ation on the lungg |
was the immediate consequence o f th is incaution.
“ On the first appearance of indisposition, Mr. Alsop
ofCaine, the family apothecary (himself much attached
to the child), was summoned to attend his Lordship, l
His treatment promised a favourable result; and after
a few days he left him, in the forenoon, apparently out I
of danger. Towards evening, however, the symptoms I
becoming decidedly worse, the family were alarmed; I
and Mr. Jervis thought it right to call for Mr. Alsop’s
immediate assistance. It was night before this gentle- I
man reached Bowood; but an unclouded moon showed
every object in unequivocal distinctness. Mr. Alsop l
had passed through the Lodge gate, and was proceed­
ing to the house, when to his utter astonishment, he \
saw Lord William coming towards him, in all the f
buoyancy of childhood, restored, apparently, to health
and vigour, *I am delighted, my dear Lord/ he ex- \
claimed, to see you; but, for Heaven’s sake, goim- .
mediately within doors; it is death to you to be here
at this.time of night/ The child made no reply; but, :
turning round, was quickly out of sight. Mr. Alsop,
unspeakably surprised, hurried to the house. Here,
.all was distress and confusion ; for Lord William had
expired afew minutes before he reached the portico.
“ The sad event being, with all speed, announcedto
the Marquis of Lansdowne, in London, orders were
7
soon received at Bowood for the interment of the corpse,
and the arrangement o f the funeral procession. The
former was directed to take place at High W ickham,
in the vault which contained the remains o f L o rd W il­
liam's mother: the latter was appointed to halt at two
specified places, during the two nights on which it
would be on the road. Mr., Jervis and Dr. Priestley
attended the body. On the first day o f the melancholy
journey, the latter gentleman, who had hitherto said
little on the subject o f the appearance to Mr. Alsop,
suddenly addressed his companion, with considerable
emotion, in nearly these words. ‘ There are some very
singular circumstances connected with this event, Mr.
Jervis; and a most remarkable coincidence, between
a dream of the late Lord W illiam, and our present
mournful engagement. A few weeks ago, as I was
passing by his room door one morning, he called me to
his bedside. “ D octor,” said he, “ what is your chris-
tianname?” “ Surely,” said I, “ youknowit is Joseph.”
“ Well, then,” replied he, in a lively manner, “ if you
are a Joseph, you can interpret a dream for me, which
I had last night. I dreamed, Doctor, that I set out upon
a longjourney; that I stopped the first night at Hunger-
ford; whither I went without touching the ground; that
I fl§w from thence to S alt-H ill, where I remained the
next night; and arrived at High Wickham, on the third
day; where my dear mamma, beautiful as an angel,
stretched out her arms, and caught me within them.”
‘Now/ continued the Doctor, *these are precisely the
places where the dear child's corpse will remain on this
8
and the succeeding n ight before we reach his mother**
vault, which is finally to receive I f /
“ I make no further rem ark on this singular narra.
tive, than to assure the reader o f m y own solemn belief
p f the truth o f all its particulars.”
9
The narrative in question is given in a detached,
isolated, and totally unconnected passage, which is in*
troduced by way of episode, in the second volume of
the work, chap. xiv. pp. 114— 119, and is marked
throughout by so great a degree of incorrectness/ that
it can scarcely be allowed to pass without notice. It
is especially desirable to set this matter in its true
light, because of its manifest tendency to revive; even
in these idays. of ^boasted light and progressive know­
ledge, the dark and exploded notions of supernatural
agency; to enslave the minds of the weak and igno­
rant by the diffusion of error, and to raise in the timid
and credulous, wild dreams and fanciful delusions, and
all the unreal mockery ” and mystery of a gloomy
superstition. ' . . r : > ^ 'h: ^
It is not a little remarkable that this strange story^
having no foundation but the slender and fallacious
grounds of vague fancy and report, should have been
brought forward, though in this “ questionable shape,”
under the sanction of a writer of acknowledged intel­
ligence and taste ; who gravely assures us of his u own
solemn belief o f the truth 'o f all its particulars
Mr. Warner states his account as, “ related to him
in the first instance by the Rev. Joseph Townsend,
rector of Pewsey in Wiltshire.” The writer of these
remarks was well acquainted with Mr. Townsend, and
highly esteemed him as a man of great worth and re­
spectability, of various and extensive information, par-
10
ticularly on subjects of natural science and philog0 i
But those who knew him best, and respected him^
will allow, that the ardour and enthusiasm of hisnatuf
predisposed him to entertain some visionary androm
a
iJ
tic notions ofsupernatural appearances. Mr. T
ow
nsend
was, on various occasions, a visitor at Bowood; butth
e
present writer has no recollection of his having be^
there about the period when these extraordinaryoccur­
rences are said to have taken place;— he therefore
also have received them as matter of hearsay a
n
d
doubtful report. Be this as it may, it is nowtoola
te
to institute an inquiry. This worthy man has lo
n
g
been gone to that land of darkness and oblivion,
€t whence none return, and whither all must go.”^^ !a
The author has faultered even on the thresholdofh
is
details, by mis-stating the address,'designation, a
g
e,
and disorder of the young nobleman who forms theim
­
mediate subject of his narrative— whom he styles
“ Lord William Petty, third son of the M
arquis o
f
Lansdowne. ” The Earl of Shelburne, afterw
ards
created Marquis of Lansdowne, had, by his first m
a
r­
riage, with Lady Sophia Carteret, daughter of L
o
rd
Viscount Granville, only two sons, viz.: John H
enry,
Lord Viscount Fitzmaurice, and the Honourable W
il­
liam Granville Petty.. His Lordship’s third son w
a
s
the offspring of his second marriage, with Lady L
ouisa
Fitzpatrick, daughter of the Earl of Upper O
ssory—
the present Marquis, now a distinguished membero
f
His Majestys Government, who succeeded to thetitle
on the demise of his brother John Henry^itawaw*)
the late Marquis. ,
11
The Honourable William Granville Petty finished
his short career of life not in the eighth, but in the
tenth year of his age, when the dawn of reason held
out the early promise of a bright intellectual day, and
disclosed a splendid prospect of blooming virtues, and
the fondest hopes. It is next said, this young gentle­
man “ rode before the gamekeeper, with his waistcoat
open and chest exposed; and that inflammation of the
lungs was the immediate consequence.” In this there
is a material deviation from the fact. The complaint
which terminated so fatally, was inflammation— not of
the ta g s —but of the bowels: of the other circum­
stances in that account, it will be a sufficient refutation
to add, that such occurrences were wholly incompa­
tible with the plan of personal and domestic discipline
which, as well as the studies of his pupils, it was the
province of Mr. Jervis their preceptor to conduct and
maintain.
After all, these are circumstances of trivial impor­
tance, further than as they may be considered strong
indications of the very slight evidence upon which the
whole story has been received.
The reader will be no less surprised, when he is
informed, that the particulars of a conversation which
is said to have passed on the road, (not to Wickham,
but to High Wycombe in. Buckinghamshire,) are “ as
idle tales,”wholly without foundation. The fact is, that
neither Dr. Priestley, nor Mr. Jervis attended the fu­
neral : the former.continued with his family, and the
latter remained with his surviving pupil at Bowood,
now severed from his brother by the hand of death,—
“ one taken and the other left; ” while the remain
the much-lamented deceased' were conveyed to \y°*
iV ia o n r l J a n n S l f o r ] I A f l n ' a # 1 1 . 1 . 1
combe, and deposited near those of his excels
mother, in the family vault.
The subject of that supposed conversation is eq^j
remote from t r u t h n o communication of the nat^
alluded to was ever made to Mr. J. on this oranyoth
e?
occasion; and such was the free and friendly inter,
course subsisting between these two gentlemen, th
at
had such a circumstance occurred to either, it w
ould
have ,been unreservedly" imparted to the ether. It
is stated:in the account, that as Dr. Priestleyw
as
passing the chamber door of the young and interesting
sufferer, “ he was called into his rCom, and' cheerfully
accosted by him.” :To this it may suffice to observe,
that Dr.: Priestley had no apartments in the m
ansion
at Bowood, nor was he ever accustomed to sleep th
ere"
;
but resided in a house at Caine. It may also he con
fix
dently asserted, that Dr. Priestley never saw Mr;Petty
during his short and fatal illness. In justice to tins
truly enlightened and upright man; let me add, that
his cheerful temper, his calm and philosophic toneof
mind, would not easily be misled by the weakness
of credulity, or the delusions of a morbid and distem
­
pered imagination../
There is yet ariothe'r instance in this remarkable
case, where the testimony of a medical man is brought
forward as irresistible evidence. ” It is‘ stated that
“ Mr. Alsop’s treatment promised a favourable result;
and after a few days he left his patient, in the forenoon,
apparently out of danger. Towards evening, however;
13
the symptoms becoming decidedly worse, the family
were alarmed; and Mr. Jervis thought it right to call
for Mr. Alsop’s immediate assistance; ” and, on this
his “ last visit/* a remarkable circumstance is said to
have been observed by him. Mr. Alsop’s account, as
reported, by the author of the “ Recollections,” relates
to two circumstances,-r-one previous to. the crisis ofthe
disease, the other to an extraordinary, phenomenon
subsequent to that period. On. the subject, of the
latter, the /* appearance to Mr. Alsop,” as it is termed,
the narrator asserts that,.the information received, in
the first instance, from a most respectable quarter, was
“ confirmed by a voucher scarcely to be resisted,— an
indisputably true report of Dr. Alsop’s viva voce decla­
ration on his dying bed.”
, Without going into the minutiae of. this detail, it
may be briefly observed, that if the incident mentioned
by Mr. Alsop had really occurred, it is not a little sin­
gular that it should have remained a mystery to the
present writer, who never heard of any such occurrence
till now ;■
—no distant rumour, not even a whisper of
the kind, ever reached him, even “ by the hearing of
the ear,” till pointed out by a friend, within a few
months past, in Mr. Warner’s late publication.
Mr. Alsop was a practitioner, of considerable skill
and experience in his profession? and, as such, was
called, in to attend the family at Bowood on all occa­
sions where medical aidwas required. He was ofcourse
sent for at the commencement of Mr. Petty’s attack;
but so short was the illness of the youthful sufferer,
14
that Mr. Alsop had no opportunity of seeing his patie^
more than once ! Mr. A lsop was a man of strong min(j
while in the possession o f health and the exercise of
his mental faculties, and apparently not subject to fa^
ciful illusions; but, how far he m ight have been re*
duced by sickness and debility at a later period, no one
can say who had not an opportunity of witnessing the
last hours o f his life. It is however very possible, that
his mind, weakened and impaired, his ideas confused,
and his judgm ent clouded by infirmity or disease,
might give way to the suggestions of fancy and the de­
lusion o f an imaginary scene. This worthy man has
long been d ead ; and though the writer avows himself
entirely unacquainted with the time or circumstances
of his death, yet when it is considered how many inac­
curacies, in the former part o f Mr. Warner's Narrative,
he has been enabled to contradict by facts, he sees no
impropriety in ascribing the extraordinary u appearance
to Dr. Alsop,'' to a supposition at once the most pro­
bable and the m ost rational. '
W hether it be or be not in itself of any importance,
after the lapse of so many years, when the means of
further inquiry are no longer attainable, to revive these
anxious recollections; or to give a corrected statement
o f circumstances, which, in common with all the oc­
currences o f this passing scene, have long been carried
down the rapid stream o f tim e ; might perhaps be
questioned, had they not excited a degree of surprise
and curiosity in the minds o f some readers. The
writer further acknowledges, that, influenced by senti-
15
merits of consideration and deference towards persons
0f higli respectability, whose names are severally intro­
duced, he feels himself called upon to protest against
such misrepresentation, from whatever cause arising,
and to correct the errors into which the worthy author
has been so unaccountably betrayed. In addition to
these considerations, he cannot regret, that a legitimate
opportunity is now afforded him of paying a just tri­
bute of respect and regard to the memory of one,
whose name should not be allowed to sink into silent
oblivion.
Having been resident at Bowood for some years
previous to this lamented event, engaged in the office
of preceptor to the two sons of the first Marquis of
Lansdowne, the writer trusts he shall be pardoned for
expressing himself with confidence and freedom. The
facts connected with this case being familiar to his:
mind, and still fresh in his recollection, he presumes to
think he is justified in asserting his competency to bear
his testimony to the truth of what he has adduced, and
which he hesitates not to say could not be supplied
from any other source.
It now only remains to give a brief outline of some
ofthe leading circumstances which occurred, narrated
with the simplicity of truth,— from which the reader'
may draw his own conclusions. <
The Honourable William Granville Petty, second
son of the Marquis, and younger brother of Lord Fitz-
maurice, though of a florid complexion, and to all ap­
pearance enjoying a state of good general health, was
16
A
7
not of a robust constitution. His intellectual faculty
were naturally vigorous and alert; while athoughtf^
turn of mind occasionally disposed him to contempt
tive habits very unusual at bis age. His countenance
was animated and intelligent, and when lighted up
adverting to any elevated sentiment or generous action,
bore the significant impress of his mind. In therou.
tine of recreations appointed for these young noble- I
men, riding was their constant and regular exercise, !
without either a too rigid attention to, or an incon.
siderate disregard of, the state of the weather. O
n,a
fine winter’s morning in the month of January, frosty,
but under the influence of a clear sky and a bright sun,
carefully protected by warm and suitable clothingM
r,
Petty mounted his favourite pony* in companyw
ith
his brother and Mr. Jervis, ..and, attended by th
eir
groom, took his customary ride,
^Though sensible to the cold while on horseback,
he returned home apparently as well as usual; an
d
at dinner conversed freely, and with his wonted cheer*
fulness, with Lord Fitzmaurice and their mutual friend,
in whom he uniformly placed the highest confidence,to
*
wards whom he always evinced unqualified esteeman
d
attachment, and by whom he was tenderly beloved.
He discovered no symptom of indisposition till latein
the evening, when he complained of internal pain toa
faithful and respectable domestic, his personal attend­
ant, whose care was constant and unremitting. M
r.
Alsop was sent for; who, observing no indications at
that time that could reasonably create apprehension o
r
17
alarm, administered some medicine, and took his leave.
The application afforded temporary relief, and some
abatement of pain; but these favourable symptoms
were of short continuance. Inflammation soon ensued/
which baffled the power of medicine ,• so violent and
so rapid in its progress, that the fatal result took place
on the evening of the second day,— within twenty-four
hours after the first appearance of indisposition,— and,
in his tenth year, terminated a life of the highest pro­
mise, and ofinestimable value]
The attack was so sudden, that no. real danger was
apprehended till it .was too late to profit by the mean3
of human aid; and before Mr. Alsop came to make a
second visit, his interesting,, patient was removed from
all mortal suffering.
The Marquis had very recently left Bowood to pass
the remainder of. the winter in London; and it was
Mr. Jervis’s painful task to communicate the account
ofthis distressing , event, by. an immediate ,express to
town. It were vain . to. attempt to .state the effect
which intelligence so overwhelming had upon the noble
father,for whom his young heart was impressed with the
genuine sentiments of high veneration and the wannest
filial affection,—rthe. sure indications pf a generous and
noble nature. ...It . will however, be readily believed,
that this severe and unexpected stroke inflicted a deep
and lasting wound upon, the mind of the Marquis,—-
the painful remembrance of which never ceased occa­
sionally to interrupt his tranquillity through the sub­
sequent period of an important.life, honourably and
o
18
\
I
usefully spent in a course of vigorous and manly e
iions in the cause of patriotism, liberty, and peace! '
“ Though now no longer life’s warm current glides
Through the fair frame which the cold marble hides;
O let not man in ignorance complain
That virtue dies,— that innocence is rain!
He lives!—where angels shall a brother greet,
#Where parted friends to part no more shall meet;
And where, as heaven’s blest inmates undefiled,
Again the Father shall behold his child.”—Calamy.
The character of this young nobleman was m
arked
by strong indications of virtue, genius and acquirem
ent !
far above his tender years. With the spotless p
u
rity
and innocence of childhood, he combined the fin
est
moral and mental feelings, and the admirable principles I
of undeviating rectitude of purpose and of conduct j
Endued with a quick perception of what was, due to i
propriety and decorum, and influenced by a strict re­
gard to the deceits atque verum in morals and. inm
an
­
ners, he revolted at the slightest departure fromtta
rules of probity and integrity. A sacred love.of tru
th
,
a high sense of honour, elevated notions of liberty, jus­
tice, and humanity, and an unaffected piety, invariably
inspired his youthful breast. An energy of mind, a
vivid imagination, a singularly retentive memory, a
fondness for reading, and a love of knowledge, w
ith
an insatiable desire of acquiring it by close attention
and diligent application,—-were qualities by whichbe
was no less eminently distinguished. To 'these w
ere
added the engaging influence of a gentle, yet ani:
mated disposition, -an artless, undesigning temper
j
19
and a generous, feeling heart. He discovered great
quickness in the discrimination of character, and uni­
formly showed a marked distinction between those
tfhom he thought entitled to regard, and those whom
he considered less worthy of esteem.
The sentiment so happily expressed by a celebrated
poet, in his pointed and appropriate eulogy on his
friend, may be justly applied on this occasion :
“ In wit a man, simplicity a child.”
So early a development of talent, and so rare a com­
bination of manly virtues and shining qualities, as
thosewhich adorned the character of this incomparable
youth, cannot be regarded without admiration and de­
light, and clearly prove he was a being of no common
order;—in whom we might contemplate “ virtue in its
ownshape lovely,” and attractive. And, had it pleased
Providence to have spared a life so precious, he would
no doubt have been an ornament to his country, the
prideof his family, and an honour to human nature 1
—
“ Qui summam spem civium, quam de eo jam puero
habuerant, continued adolescens mcredibili virtute su-
peravit ;— Quid dicam de moribus facillimis, de pietate
in Patrem, liberalitate— bonitate in suos, justiti4 in
omnes?,,# . .
* It may not be unworthy of notice, that Mr. Petty had been
reading^ with his preceptor, the interesting chapter in Cicero’s Essay
fromwhich the above passages are cited, within a day or two only of
his'death.' (Cic. de Amicitia, cap. 3.) ...
b 2
20
It has often been remarked, that precocity of
lect and extraordinary powers of mind are unfavour^/
to the duration of human life ; that they tend to in ^
the constitution, exhaust the bodily frame, and im
pe(j
its progress to maturity;— an observation painful]
exemplified in the affecting instance of Mr.
A la s ! how soon w ere th e fond anticipations of hope
withered b y disapp oin tm en t, o f w hich even the distant
recollection <c m aketh th e heart sick I ”
B y h is early rem oval, h e escaped the perils and
disasters to w hich h e m ig h t have been exposed, andthe
various evils o f a corrupt and unfeeling world, which
would have d eep ly w ounded a spirit so tenderly alive
to every virtuous feelin g, and all the generous sensi-
b ilities o f our nature.
“ Ere sin could blight, or sorrow fade,
Death came with friendly care,
The opening bud to heaven convey’d,
And bade it blossom there.”—C o l e r id g e .
H is earthly race w as. on ly ju st begun, ere he a
r­
rived at th e fatal goal, and h is brief career was ter­
m inated in the grave. There, “ quietly; muraed”
am idst the tom bs o f his fath ers, he is numbered w
ith
the m ighty dead !— -P eace to h is memory ’—Though
h is perishable rem ains have long since been resolved i
into their original elem ent, y et we m ay rejoice in the
reflection, that he still lives in the wide world of im
­
mortal and intellectual bein gs ; arid think of himas
gone tb his native hom e, the abode o f eternal purity
21
and truth. May we not here ask, in the touching and
impressive language o f the great master of Rom an
eloquence ;— “ Cm censem us cursum ad deos facilio-
rein fuisse, quam S c ip io n i ? n
Those who knew, and could appreciate the uncom­
mon excellence o f tins amiable and engaging child,
endeared by many interesting recollections, m ay surely
still lie permitted to regret the loss o f one, th e remem­
brance of whom can never be obliterated b y any di­
stance of time, but w ill tie cherished so Ions* as life
'x
J
itself shall last, with a devotedness o f affection, sacred
anil indelitile!
THE EN D .
PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,
RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
