{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__stella___horary_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"Horary Astrology","mylang":"de"}
THE
ASTROLOGIAN’S GUIDE
IN
_ @mmm ﬁshmlmlgy,
BEING THE
Full Disclosure of that Science whereby a True Answer may
be obtained to every Question relating to Futurity, and
by which the Student may also discern Things past
and present.
BY'
RUFEBI‘US 5—1321-135
“ Proba ventatem mm.”
I ’5 t: 5; (“Q'igrpf m . '
LONDON:
SIM PKIN AND MARSHALL.
I MDCCCXXXII.
G. (TRAWSHAW, PRINTER, LEEDS.
\ My“
PREFACE.
A CONCISE, and at the same
time useful and intelligible work on
Horary Astrology, has long been a
desideratum with the lovers of the
Astral Science, there being no work to
our knowledge in print solely devoted
to that art, the present treatises dwell
ing chieﬂy on Nativities, and being so
trammelled with prolix and conﬂicting
’ rules, &c., as to deter most persons
from a perusal of their otherwise in
structive pages. So thoroughly have
IV
we been impressed with the truth of
this, that the compilation of the follow- _
ing work was originally commenced
for private use, and the hope that it
might Prove equally useful to others,
has now induced us to present it to
the ublic. How far it may meet with
their approbation time will disclose;
but whether it has the honour of
enjoying the patronage of the readers -
of “Heaven’s Golden Alphabet,” or
sinks into the Lethe of oblivion, this _
we can boldly assert, that nothing (so
far as our abilities extended) has been
wanting to render it worthy of the
subject ;——this volume, containing the
very marrow of those elaborate works ‘
by Bonatus, Ifaly, Lilly, Ball, &c.,
which have now become so scarce as
to be almost unattainable.
V
To the chosen few who are deeply
read in the mysteries of Nature we
can say little; but if this our humble
attempt should come under their cog
nizance, may they look benignly on
it, and remember the words of old
Haydon, the Rosicrucian, who says
“ the Nativity of Books is like unto
that of children, they both lisp at ﬁrst,
I though their parents speak never so
well." I
It is not our intention, neither do
we think it advisable, considering the '
intention of this work, to run into a ‘
long defence of the science; let those
who deny its truth ﬁrst understand it,
'_ and then an argument may be held
with them with some degree of pro
priety, (but we feel a strong persuasion
that in most cases they will decline
VI
the meeting, and “ rat,-”) in the mean
time we will ask them, why the various
astrological rules have remained unal
tered for ages, when, if they were
fallacious, they would have been re
modelled and changed times without
number, for the purpose of at length
coming at the truth P And again we
would ask those learned sceptics,
whether the occasional errors of astro
logical professors aﬂ'ord any argument
against the science itself? seeing that '
they themselves, in the very plenitude
of their wisdom, ‘have also erred in
processes which one would suppose
required far less skill. We wish to
be impartial, and will allow that to one
ignorant of the science its pretensions
may at ﬁrst appear ridiculous; we
ourselves were at one time disbelievers
VII
of this class; but “ facts are stubborn
things,” and after a candid and prac
tical examination of the subject we
were convinced that
“There were more things in heaven—
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”
Among a number of other remark
able instances in favour of this study,
we have observed one which seems
worthy of particular notice, and that is,
the surprising similitude of conﬁgura
tion between a Nativity and Horary
Figure, for if on examining the Horary
Figure we therein observed a certain
event promised to occur at a certain
time, the same has also on examina
tion been invariably promised by the
Geniture of the Inquirer!
VIII
As to PLANETARY INFLUENCE,
we consider it a doubtful point to
establish, and are much inclined to -
give it as our opinion, that the Celestial
Wanderers are more to be considered
Indicators than having any directeiTect; u
but, be this as it may, the truth of the
science remains unshaken, and will so
remain, as long as there are impartial,
bold, and independent men to assert
their belief, in despite of “ The world’s
loud (we might add empty) laugh !”
- ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES.
THAT branch of the Astral Science of
which the following pages are about to treat,
our readers are already aware is known by the
name of QUIM‘Q Sastrolngy, which in con
tradistinction to Gmetbltanal astrology,
or the doctrine ofNativities, teaches the solution
of any question without the necessity of the
enquirer being furnished with that diﬂicult
thing to ascertain, the precise time of birth;
A
2
and it is called ‘QM'M‘Q' because of the
ﬁgure being erected or set for the hour when
the question is asked.
Now, as the nativity is the birth of the
body, in like manner an Horary Question
seriously propounded is the birth of the mind:
but, “ gentle reader,” let not trivial and frivol
ous enquiries induce you to tamper with the
heavenly intelligence; the works of Providence
are serious, and not to be made the ridicule
of the inconsiderate, or subservient to our
levity.
Having premised thus far, we now direct
our attention to the ZODIAC, which is an
imaginary circular belt nearly sixteen degrees
broad, consisting of twelve signs or constella
tions, running round the ﬁrmament, in which
the Moon and Planets always appear to move,
'the Sun also directing its course along the
centre of it without materially deviating.
The signs which constitute the Zodiac are
known by the folloWing characters and names,
3
the Sun during a year passing through the
whole twelve, as follows :—
Snma- 8m".
q, Aries. é Libra.
25 Taurus. 111 Scorpio.
11 Gemini. 1‘ Sayitt‘ary.
svmn. WINTER
% Cancer. Vj’ Capricornus.
sL'Leo. as." Aquarius.
ml Virgo. 96 Pisces.
The ﬁrst six of these signs q, 3 n 25 $1, and
111, are called northern and commanding signs,
being north of the Equator, and are considered
by some of a more noble nature than the
remaining six 2111 1‘ We“: and )6, which are
southern and obeying signs.
Each of these signs is divided into thirty
equal parts, called degrees, each degree is
divided into sixty equal parts, called minutes,
each minute into sixty seconds, and so on ad
inﬁnitum ; so that the breadth of the Zodiac
is in every part almost a degree more than
half the length of a sign.
A 2
4
The signs are again divided according
to their four TRIPLICITIES, each Triplicity
being composed of three signs, which are of
the same nature.
4
Fiery Triplicity......q’ $1, 1‘ Hot and Dry:@ 0
. Earthy Triplicity... s rm'vy Cold and Dry. % Q
Airy Triplicity.,....n * the Hot and Moist. 5/
Watery Triplicity...% m X Cold and Moist: Q
And if a circle be drawn, divided into
twelve equal parts, and. the characters of the
Zodiac marked successively in each, a line 1
drawn from 'r to 51,, then to 1, and from
thence to in, would form an equilateral or
perfect triangle, being the FIERY TRIGON or
Triplicity; and so on of the rest.
q: 11 SL ¢ 1‘ :2, these ﬁery and airy signs
are masculine and fortunate.
8 25 191 711W x are earthy and watery
signs, and considered feminine and unfor
tunate.
5
The signs have also the following attri
butes :—
Equinoctial, ............ <y> A
Tropical, ......... ... .......... .. QB Vj’
Fixed, ........... ..... .. 3 51,1113
Common, ...... ...... .... .. 11 1111 1 x
Moveable,........ .............. .. q, 25 -'_- 115*
Fruitful, m...“ .... ........ .. 95 W], X
Barren,... ...................... .. II $1,133
Humane o‘r Courteous,.'....'.... mix 1:
Mute'or slew of speech,.... .. 95 111 X
Broken,............ ......... 5L )6
Whole, ...... 2 A“: II ml
W'eak, ......................... .. (Y1 1‘ W
Strong, ._................... 51,1113.”
Bestial, ............................ .. 8 V9
DOUBLE Bonlsn' SIGNS are II, X, and 1‘ ,
though some consider theﬁrst part of 1 only,
to be bicorporeal; $1, and the latter'part 0f 1‘
are feral or brutish.
Q 51, ml * m I are signs of right ascen
sion.
A 3
6
1/9.": X q> 3 11 are signs of oblique
ascension.
The commencer in this science must ﬁrst
become thoroughly acquainted with the cha
racters of the signs, and also of those of the
planets, &c. here following, before any further
step can be taken:
The Sun....“ 9 3‘
Mercury...... t; Jupiter......... 2‘
Venus.... 9 Saturn ..... l?
The Moon ... I) Herschel .... .. lg
53 The DRAeon’s HEAD, or Moon’s north
node, being the point where she crosses the
path of the S\un.
29 The Damon’s TAIL, or Moon’s south
node, where she crosses again, diametrically
opposite to Q.
(B The PART or FORTUNE; the expla
nation and mode of calculating the place of
which, will be given hereafter.
The erratics or, planets, together with the
Sun and Moon, in their unceasing progress
7
through the Zodiac, are incessantly forming
CONFIGURATIONS, or what are called Aspects,
one with another, which are known by the
following names and characters, viz :—
Conjunction <5 Sextileéé Quartile r3 Trina A
and Opposition 8
A CONJUNCTION <5 , though always called
one of the Aspects, does not in strictness come
under that name; for when two or more
planets, &c., are both in the same degree and
minute of a sign they are said to be in con
junction, and in such a position they of course
cannot (astrologically speaking) aspect or
direct their rays to each other. This con- '
ﬁguration is either good or bad, as the planets
&c. forming it, are friendly or the contrary _to
each other, a. table of which will be found at
the end of this part of the work.
A SEXTI‘LE -)(- is formed when two or more
planets, &c., are sixty degrees one from the
other. This aspect is of benign inﬂuence, and
in many cases equal to a Trine.
8
A QUARTILE ASPECT :1 consists of ninety
degrees, or one-fourth part of the Zodiac. It
is an aspect peculiarly evil, and seldom can its
malign indication be lessened by the interpo
sition of more friendly rays.
A TRINE ASPECT A is the distance of 120
degrees, or four signs, between two heavenly
bodies, and is universally allowed to be pecu-
liarly indicative of good ; and a contemporary
writer says, that a trine of 74 is in most cases
sufﬁciently strong to eradicate an evil position
of I).
An OPPOSITION 8 is the distance of six
whole signs, or 180 degrees, being one-half
of the Zodiac, and constitutes a very evil and
unfortunate aspect.
These are the ﬁve most notable and power
ful conﬁgurations, and though there are others
of minor importance, yet we shall refrain to
mention them, knowing that they will do
9
little more than confuse and perplex the young
student.
It very seldom however occurs that at the
time a question is proposed, all the aspects
that appear are each perfectly composed of
their exact number of degrees; in such case
they are still in aspect as long as they con
tinue within the moiety, or equal half-part of
their orbs; this is called a Platick aspect, in
contradistinction to a Partile or perfect aspect;
yet it will be necessary to observe, in these
Platick aspects, whether the co-operation of
the two planets is going off or coming on, as
that will materially affect the matter under
consideration. Suppose for example 1? be in
15° 1?, and 2 in 10° 11, they are said to be in
Platick Aspect; for the orbs of I; , as will be
seen by the following table, are ten degrees,
the half of which is ﬁve; the orbs of 5? are
eight, half of which is four, which added to
half the orbs of Saturn, make nine degrees;
so they are within the orbs of a Sextilc, when
they are nine degrees distant; and in like
manner of the other aspects.
10
.
TABLE or run onus sun MEAN MOTION or rm:
MARIN-‘5.
cbrhs. Mean Mutton.
Saturn, ...10° 0' ....... .. 0° 3' 0”
Jupiter, ...12 O ....... .. 0 4 59
Mars, .... .. 7 O ....... .. O 38 0
Moon,.... ..'12 30 ....... ..14 23 0
Venus,.... .. 8 O l 15 0
Mercury... 7 3O ....... .. l 19 0
Sun, .... ..l7 0 ....... 0 59 8
TABLE or THE FBIENDSHIPS AND ENMITIES OF THE
PLANE'IS.
memes. ﬁumntes.
Saturn, .... .. 1L 6) ii D 8‘ 9
Jupiter.... “i I; Q 2 if D 8‘
Mars....... .. 2 l2 74 (D 3? 1)
Sun ..........‘zi3\e§))b
Venus..... ..l 74 8‘ (9 § D i?
Mercury....l 17 2L 9 2 D 3‘
Moon...-.....l It 9 9 E! i? 8‘
Whereby may be seen that the friends of
SATURN are Jupiter, Sol, Mercury, and Luna ;
his enemies are Mars and Venus. And so of
the rest.
NATURE
OF THE
TWELVE ZODIACAL SIG-NS.
Each of the signs has a particular eﬂicacy
0r virtue, and possesses certain attributes pecu
liar to itself, and though this may be considered
highly absurd by many, yet time and experi~
ence have proved it to be true, and established
it as a ﬁrm and unvarying rule. Each sign
has also respectively a planet which bears
rule over it, and is called its “ inrh,"
as the sign is called the “ ﬂange,” for
which Porphyrius, in his Treatise “ De ﬂntro
Nympharum,” gives the following curious
reason: “There are two extremities in the
heavens, viz. the winter’s solstice, than which
12
no part of heaven is nearer to the South ; and
the summer's solstice, which is situated next
to the North. But the summer tropic, that
is, the solsticial circle, is in Cancer, and the
winter tropic in Capricornus. And since
Cancer is the nearest to the Earth, it is
deservedly attributed to the Moon, which is
itself proximate to the Earth. But since the
southern pole, from its great distance, is
invisible to us, Capricornus is assigned to
Saturn, who is the highest and most remote
of all the planets. Again the signs from
Cancer to Capricornus are situated in the
following order :—The ﬁrst is Leo, the house
of the Sun; afterwards Virgo, the house of
Mercury; Libra, of Venus ; Scorpio, of Mars;
Sagittarius, of Jupiter; and Capricornus, the
house of Saturn. But from Capricornus, in
an inverse order, Sagittarius is attributed to
Saturn; Pisces to Jupiter; Aries to Mars;
Taurus to Venus; Gemini to Mercury; and
last of all, Cancer to the Moon.”* As it is
*See also some further very curious information on
this subject, “Macrobius in Somm'um Scipionis,” Lib.
1. cap. XII.
l3
highly necessary that every one commencing '
this study should be able immediately to name
the house belonging to any particular planet,
we have placed them conspicuously at the
commencement of each sign, for the purpose
of immediate reference, in case the’memory
proves delusive, by which it will be observed
that all planets have each two houses; 9 and
(( only one.
‘v @rfEQ—the House of 3‘
This sign, when it ascends in a question
or nativity, describes a person of a mean
stature, lean and dry body, strong, large bones
and limbs, piercing eyes, a swarthy com
plexion, and sandy or light coloured hair.
The ﬁrst part of the sign gives the body more
gross or fat than the latter. This sign inclines
a man to anger, but makes him witty, ingenious,
and quick ofapprehension. If I; or3‘ is there,
the signiﬁcation is altered for the worse;
if 21 or 9 , for the better. If the planets or
their aspects full strongly into any sign, they
B
l4
quite change its nature and eﬂ'ects ; if none
of these happen, then the sign Aries, and the
rest, unalterably pursue their own nature.
The DISEASES produced by this sign are
small-pox, falling-sickness, apoplexies, head
ache, all diseases of the head and face, hair-lip,
ring-worms, measles, fevers, convulsions, trem
bling, madness and melancholy.
In man it governs the head and face.
a Mums—the House of g.
It signiﬁes a short thick stature, full face,
dark curling hair, a swarthy complexion; of
qualities somewhat unfeeling, melancholy, and
slow to anger, but when once enraged, violent,
furious, and irresistible as a bull, difﬁcult to be
appeased.
The DISEASES incident to this sign are
cold and dry, melancholy habits, wens, king’s
evil, consumptions, quinsies, and all disorders
of the neck and throat.
In man it governs the neck and throat.
15
11 memj—the House of t! .
It deﬁnes or personates a tall, straight
body, rather dark complexion, arms long,
hands and feet short; a ﬁne dark hazle bright
eye, and lively wanton. look; the understand
ing excellent, a ﬂuent tongue, and judicious in
' worldly aﬁ'airs.
The DISEASES common to this sign are
all inﬁrmities of the arms, shoulders, and
hands; frenzy, fevers, fractures, and disorders
of the brain. '
In man it governs the hands, arms, and
shoulders.
<15 Gianna—the House of (K.
This sign produces a fair and pale person,
of a small or short stature ; round sickly face,
brown hair, grey eyes, bad teeth, and the
upper part-of the body generally too large in
proportion to the lower, an eﬂ'eminate con
stitution, small voice, inconstant and un
ﬁxed; if a woman, inclined to have many
children.
B 2
16
DISEASES peculiar to this sign are all
those peculiar to the breast and stomach;
cancers, dropsies, surfeits, impostumes, asthmas,
and consumptions.
In man it governs the breast, lungs, ribs,
liver, and the whole region of the stomach.
5L Elm—the House of 9
Under this kingly sign are generally sig
niﬁed persons of a large, full, masculine body,
broad shoulders, and austere countenance,
dark hair, large commanding eye, sprightly
look, strong voice; the visage oval and ﬂorid;
a resolute, courageous spirit; aspiring mind;
free and generous heart; with an- open, bold,
but courteous disposition.
The DISEASES incident to the sign Leo
are convulsions, tremblings, swoonings, violent
fevers, qualms, plagues, eruptions of the skin,
sore eyes, and complaints of the heart, pains
\ in the back, ribs, and bowels; and those
arising from cholor.
17
In man it governs the heart, back, vertibrze
of the neck, and pericranium.
’"Jl Virgil—the House of g5
When this sign ascends it personates a
slender, well composed body, of the middle
stature; a ruddy brown complexion; black
or dark, lank hair; the face somewhat round ;
the voice small and shrill; a witty, ingenious,
studious, but rather unstable disposition; and
if the ascendant be ‘free from the malevolent
aspect of b, and this sign ascend with 35
therein and (I be in 25, the person who has
them so situated at his birth, will be an excel
lent orator.
DISEASES of this sign are those produced
by worms, wind, and obstructions; hardness
of the spleen, cholic, hypocondriacis, melan
choly, and iliac passion.
In man it rules the abdomen, bowels, spleen,
omentiun, navel, and diaphragma.
B 3
18
* amid—the House of 9
At a birth it produces one of a tall, well
made body; round handsome face; a ﬁne
sanguine complexion in youth, but in old age
full of pimples, or a deep red colour in the
face; the hair yellow or ﬁaxen, long and
lank; grey eyes; of a friendly affable dispo
sition, with a mind just and upright in all its
pursuits, yet conceited.
The DISORDERS common to this sign are
all those occurring in the loins, bladder, and
kidnies, weakness in the back, 810.
In man it governs the parts before
mentioned.
m gtﬂt‘lliU—ihe House of 5*
It gives a strong, robust body, of a middle
stature; broad visage; brown complexion;
brown curling hair; hairy body; short neck
and legs; reserved and thoughtful in con
versation. '
The DISEAsEs incident to Scorpio are
stone and gravel; the worst kind of syphilis;
19
all secret and violent diseases; ﬁstulas, rup
tures, scurvy, piles, and obstructions of the
intestinal canal.
In man it governs the groin, bladder, and
organs of generation.
1 ﬁagittarius—the House of 1;
When ascending it endows the native with
a well-formed body, rather above the middle
stature; a handsome countenance, rather long
and ruddy; chesnut hair, subject to baldness;
the body strong and active ; he is generally a
good horseman, stout-hearted, intrepid, and
careless of danger.
The DISEASES proper to this sign are the
sciatica, gout, fevers, and disorders produced
from intemperance; liability to broken bones,
caused by falls, particularly from horses.
It governs the thighs, hips, and os-sacrum.
v9 mapmnmus—ﬂw House of b
It describes a slender stature, of a dry
constitution; long thin visage; small beard;
dark hair; long neck; narrow chin and breast;
20
with a witty, subtle, saving, but changeable
disposition; very liable to melancholy and
curious dreams.
The Drsisasss peculiar to Capricornus
are gout, sprains, fractures and dislocations;
cutaneous eruptions and cold chills; disorders
of the chest and lungs; melancholy; hysterics.
In man it governs the knees and hams.
w thtat‘lttﬁ—the House of I;
It denotes a person well-set and robust;
long face; pale delicate complexion; with
bright, dark, ﬂaxen hair; hazle eyes; and
generally of an honest disposition.
Its DISEASES are lameness, and bruises
about the ancles; fractures; dislocations; .
putrefaction of the blood; cramps; rheu
matism.
In man it sways the legs and uncles.
X ﬁling—the House of 2;
It produces a native of a short stature;
pale countenance; round stooping shoulders;
21
ﬂeshy body; brown hair; and a singularly
formed skull.
The DISEASES produced by this sign are
all those of the feet; lameness; biles pro
ceeding from evil blood; and all cold, moist
diseases.
In man it bears rule over the feet and
toes.
The Egyptians appear to have formerly
paid a much closer attention to the Zodiac
than we modems at present do; maintaining
that not a single degree of that circle could be
varied in the rising, but some eminent varia
tion must happen, especially to him or her who
should be born at that time. As a proof of this,
Diodorus Siculus mentions that when Cambyses
conquered Egypt, B.C. 525, he destroyed an
immense circle of gold, being a cubit in thick
ness, and three hundred and sixty-ﬁve cubits
in circumference, so that upon the space of a
cubit might be inscribed the days of the year
successively, what remarkable stars rose and
22
set on each day, their signiﬁcations, and the
time of their rising and setting, &c. At each
sixtieth part of a cubit, which answered to a
degree, there was ﬁgured an hieroglyphic, from
which they drewtheir predictions. For instance,
to the ﬁrst degree of Aries was assigned the
ﬁgure of a man, holding a reaping hook in his
right hand, and a sling in his left ; to the second
degree, aman with the head of a dog, his right
hand stretched forth, and in his left hand a
staff, &0. &c., so that he (said they) who had
the ﬁrst degree of Aries ascending in his Horo
scope, should be some part of his life a hus
bandman, and the rest of it a soldier ; he who
should be born under the second degree of -
Aries should prove contentious, quarrelsome,
and envious, 8:0.
28
TABLE or THE nssnn'rur. roarrrunns or run
I’LAIIB'IS.
m- l -
@— < U2
{2 Colonial 5%
< Home! H q Tripliciﬂes.
i :14 mi
1? w w A
u 1 x e o It or St 1
8 a” TYL W 2 J) 8 ma W
® 81. ‘Y’
9 3 & X l? 25 11 =2 x7
55 II “12 1131 8‘ QB lYL X
a s a .
Essential I'ortitudes.
TABLE or THE ESSENTIAL DEBILITIE§ or run 7
PLANE'I'S- l
netﬂment- A;
l2 °i> 8L ‘Y’
1t 11 1111 w
8‘ =1- 8 EB
G) A“: i.
S? ‘Y’ 111 '"31
32 1‘ X X
W - "1.
I: nential Debﬂltics.
24
The DRAGON’S HEAD has its exaltation in
n, and fall in 1 , the Damon’s TAIL just
the contrary.
15 is supposed to have the same fortitudes
and debilities in all cases as T; ; but a." seems
to be his “exceeding great delight.”
In these Tables the ﬁrst column will beseen
to contain the planets; the next their several
celestial houses; after that their exaltations;
and then the planets ruling the Four Tripli
cities, marked in the last column of Essential
Fortitudes. Of these fortitudes or dignities, the
House is the strongest of the whole, either on
the cusp of the ascendant, (that is, the eastern
horizon) or any other part of the ﬁgure; next
to tliis in power is the Exaltation; and then
the Triplicity; and the planets being found
in those signs of fortitude, which are placed
opposite to them in the table, are eminently
strong, fortunate, and powerful; while their
being in those signs, marked as their debilities,
either Detriment or Fall, render them more
weak if naturally benign, or if of a contrary
nature, more evil and unfortunate than in any
25
other sign of the heaVens. And this must be
particularly observed, for if a. planet which is
a signiﬁcator, be posited in any of his dignities,
such planet being an indicator of evil, the
malevolent effect is materially weakened; et
contra.
Some consider another kind of Dignity,
which they call Accidental, and that is, when
planets are casually in an angle or succedent
house, free from combustion.
The Ancients also considered two other
situations of the planets, which they thought
affected their nature ; these were the “ Phases”
and the “ Terms," which, together with some
few other fallacies, are rejected by modern
astrologers, it being now the general opinion,
that before the discovery of as, effects were
continually observed, the causes of which it was
difﬁcult to account for, and consequently those
otherwise learned men would frequently attri
bute partial effects to false causes, whenever
they found the known benevolent indication of
c
26
IL or 2 so unaccountany impeded. These
Phases and Terms were a certain number of
degrees in each sign, which were thus thought
to have peculiar effects, and so if 2!. waswithin
the ﬁrst six degrees of (Y’, he was then said to
be in his Terms; if 9 was between the sixth
degree and the fourteenth of the same sign, she
was in her Terms ; in both cases denoting, that
the person signiﬁed by the planet thus located,
participated rather in the nature and quality
of the planet, than in the wealth, power, dig
nity, or honour, indicated thereby. The Phases
were in like manner another portion of a sign,
which, when a planet was therein, showed the
person, &c., signiﬁed by it to be in great dis
tress, danger, or anxiety: 3‘ in the ﬁrst ten
degrees of 111, was said to be in his Phases; and
9 when in the degrees intervening between
the tenth and the twentieth of the same sign,
&c.
THE
SUN, MOON, PLANETS, 840.
WITH THEIR
NATURE AND E FFE CTS.
As we suppose that no one would under
take the reading or study of this work without
having some little knowledge of Astronomy,*
" For those who wish to aequire in a pleasing
manner a general knowledge of this sublime branch of
the sciences, we would strongly recommend “Astronomy,
as it is known at the present day,” by G. G. Carey,
8vo., which, not being very abstruse, conveys nearly all
the information necessary for any one but a professor.
The young student will also ﬁnd a celestial globe, of
not less than twelve inches in diameter, a. valuable
acquisition to his study.
0 2
28
i
v
(which, though not absolutely necessary, will
be found considerably to facilitate his labours),
we shall merely lay before the tyro a table of
the magnitudes, periods, and revolutions of
, the planets, and then go forwards with the
original intention of the work ; after observing
that the .Ptolemaic System, of the Earth
forming the centre of the planetary orbits,
which was at one time almost universally
believed, is now entirely exploded, and the
only true system, originally discovered by
Pythagoras, and afterwards revived by Coper
nicus, which places the sun in the centre, is
now received without an opponent.
.5552:
21%
oeqegsmw;
2
3.8
:saassim
.E:
s
2
8%;
23¢an
a
$5:
......555m
.5
we
a;
25%
guesses“,
E
33
£53
.25
Q:
Assamese“
2
$5
.255
5:5
men
indoasem
2
5e;
£850
.285
33
messages
o
53
.25
again
.wmm
80.313“
a
new;
.12;
.56
as
was
838.3"
we
ewe
.......s_<2
.s
2
.1
as
was
838.8
e
e3
£62
a
as
sea.»
6858.3
e
8m
.555
ass
is
was.“
“2.55%
2
3s
:...85>
awe
.Be
is
mi.”
Guiana
as
5..
2852
$551
.sasQ
com-3cm
16.55
.EQESQ.
3:3me
:52
wow.-
G225,
.mBHZQAﬁ
HE.
mo
mzoiaaogx
Pi
eroEmE
£22222
8:.
mo
mqmdﬁ.
The diameter of the Sun is 886,149 English miles,
and its diurnal rotation 25 days 14 hours. The four
lately discoyered planets, VESTA g Juno 1* CERES p
and PALLAS Q are so small that they have not as yet
been observed to exert any sensible inﬂuence.
c3
r
30
Quartet, or arenas.
HERSCHEL, Iii or URANUS, being only dis
covered in 1781, no one can positively say what
are its exact effects, but from the observations
already made, we have every reason to con
sider him replete with evil; possessing the
combined effects of l? and §: but this evil is
always peculiarly strange and unaccountable.
A person born under 1%! inﬂuence is of a very
' eccentric disposition, romantic, unsettled, and
incessantly searching after novelty; ‘If he
be joined in good aspect with K or 21 the
natives, or those born under him, generally
prove excellent chemists, and often great
admirers of the occult sciences, endowed with
extraordinary magnanimity and loftiness of
mind. If (( be afﬂicted by him, or he be in
the seventh house of the ﬁgure in a. question
of marriage, he causes every thing but happi
ness, at the same time producing these effects
from the most strange and unnatural causes.
In love he has the same tendency, and appears
to be “ sworn foe” to the fair sex. I may
31
here conclude with the judicious remark of
Mr. Smith, in his “ Manual of Astrology :”
“ \Vhen we consider how much this planet
must have baffled the judgment of the ancient
astrologers; and when we reflect also, that
there may be also other planets equally poWer
ful, beyond his orbit, as yet undiscovered, we
cannot help remarking the extreme ignorance
I and folly of those persons, who require from
the astrologer what they expect from no one
else—infallibility.” ,
imam
SATURN b is cold, dry, melancholy,
earthy, masculine, solitary, malevolent, and in
short, saturm'ne, being the most malignant of
all the planets. He represents one of a middle
stature, of a. dark or pale complexion; small
black leering eyes; lowering brow; thick
nose and lips; large ears ; dark hair; broad
shoulders; thin beard; small thighs and legs;
and a melancholy expression. If well digni
ﬁed, either' by house or benevolent aspect, the
32
person signiﬁed by I; will be constant both
in attachment and hatred, acute, penetrating,
grave and sober, but withal austere, rigid,
and covetous. lg and 12,1 combined, produce
the conﬁrmed miser.
If ill digniﬁed, the native or querent will
be sordid, base, jealous and envious; a coward
ly, dissembling, lying, malicious person, and
immoveably stubborn. Saturn also causes the
native to see every thing'in its worst light,
which generate among other evils, fear, dis
trust, and repining. If I? be much afﬂicted it
often produces suicide. Observe further, when
he is signiﬁcator of travelling, he betokens long
and laborious journeys, perilous adventures,
and dangerous conﬁnement.
He governs the spleen, right ear, bones,
and retentive faculties, and those born under
him have generally had and painful teeth.
The DISEASES lg indicates are all those
proceeding from cold, and obstructed perspira
tion; melancholy, epilepsy, black jaundice,
33 \
leprosy, ﬁstulas, pains in the limbs and joints,
gout, deafness, and insanity.
gunner.
J UPITFR 74 is next to Saturn the most
powerful planet in the system, yet of a far dif
ferent tendency, being hot, moist, and san
guine. He describes one of an erect, tall
stature; beautiful complexion; an oval coun
tenance; high forehead; full grey eyes; soft
thick brown hair; handsome yet robust per
son; and if well digniﬁed, of very engaging
manners and disposition, magnaniinous, just,
and upright.
If ill digniﬁed the'native will be hypo
critical, profligate, licentious, dull, conceited,
and according to time and place, a sycophant
or a tyrant. If 7.]. be near violent ﬁxed stars,
it renders the person rash and ﬁckle.
He rules the lungs, liver, reins, and blood ;
also the digestive and natural faculties.
s.“
34
The DISEASES under him are affections of
the internal viscera, and all those complaints
which originate through a plethoric habit and
con-upt blood ; pleurisies, apoplexies, inﬁrmities
in the back and arteries.
When signiﬁcator of journies in any ques
tion, he denotes pleasant travelling, success,
health, safety and mirth.
Wars.
Mans 3‘ is a hot, dry, ﬁery, masculine,
malignant, and violent planet; the lesser in
fortune, as l? is the greater; the author of quar
rels, battle and bloodshed. The evil produced
by 3‘ however, is never of so long continuance :
the effect of I? being compared to a slow but
fatal consumption, while that of 3‘ is like
unto a burning fever, slacking its thirst in the
life-blood of the patient. He produces a
person, strong, well set, and though of short
stature, not fat, but muscular with large bones ;
35
the face brown or ruddy, round, and of a bold
expression; red or light hair, and sharp hazle
eyes. When well digniﬁed the person signi
ﬁed will be possessed of an active, bold, and
intrepid soul, careless of danger, so that he
may but triumph over his enemy; yet
magnanimous, and at the same time prudent
in private concerns. But when ill digniﬁed,
either by position or an evil aspect of 1g or
7? then the native is of a ferocious counte
nance, and wholly destitute of virtue; prone
to violence, treachery, robbery, murder, trea_
son, and every species of cruelty and wicked
ness, fearing neither God nor man. 7
3\ rules the gall, face, and left ear and
hand, smell, imagination, ,_ and attentive
faculties.
The DISEASES under him are fevers,
plagues, and other inﬂammatory complaints;
jaundice, cutaneous eruptions, diabetes, stran
guary, burns, scalds, wounds and_bruises. When
signiﬁcator of a journey, he portends danger
of robbery, accidents, and loss of life.
36
ataxia or the New.
The Moon (( is cold, moist, feminine,
watery, and possessed of no signiﬁcation or
inﬂuence in herself, but is fortunate 0n the
contrary, as she falls in with the conﬁgurations,
or is aspected by other planets: and under
these circumstances (particularly in Horary
Astrology) she becomes one of the most
powerful of all the heavenly bodies. She
produces a full stature; fair, pale complexion;
round face, grey eyes, short arms, thick hands
and feet, and a body inclined to corpulency;
and if afﬂicted by (9, blemishes in or near
the eye, or a peculiar weakness of sight is
often the result.
Well digniﬁed she makes the native or
querent of engaging manners, easily fright
ened, well disposed, fond of novelties a'iid
travelling. Her 6 * or A to 2; is exceed
ingly propitious.
Her being'ill digniﬁed represents an idle,
drunken, beggarly person, hating labour, and
of a mean spirit.
37
Old professors say she governs the brain,
stomach, bowels, left eye of the male, and right
eye of the female.
Her DISEASES are rheumatism, consump
tion, complaints in the bowels, palsy, dropsy,
scrofula, and lunacy, as also those diseases
peculiar to young children.
Farms.
VENUS g is a. feminine planet, cold and
moist, the lesser Fortune, 2‘ being the greatera
She describes a handsome, well formed, but
not tall person; a lovely dark eye, beaming
with a certain expression from a beautiful face ;
the hair of a light colour, and a sweet voice.
\Vhen well digniﬁed the native will be of
a guiet, engaging, sweet disposition; endowed
with every accomplishment, amatory, but truly
virtuous: though if a lady be signiﬁed, she
will unfortunately he tormented with jealousy,
even without cause. ' -
1f the planet be afﬂicted or ill digniﬁed,
then the person born under or indicated by her
I)
38
will be riotous, proﬂigate, regardless of credit
or reputation, and in principles an atheist.
2 , according to old authors, rules the
reins, spine, generative system, neck, throat
and breast.
The DISEASES of Q are seated in the back,
loins, and the aforesaid parts, she also causes
heartburn, palpitation, dislocation, and certain
disorders peculiar to luxury and free living.
In journies she promises pleasure, proﬁt,
and safety.
ﬁerwrg.
MERCURY 3f is cold, dry, and melancholy,
and mler of the whole rational and intellectual
faculties; he is variable in nature, being mas
culine or feminine, fortunate or unfortunate,
as his position in the heavens happen to be,
or as he is in aspect with evil and mischievous
planets; or in 8 with infortune. He repre
sents one of a tall, straight, thin body, narrow
face, long nose, thin lips and chin; littlebeard,
39
brown complexion, with hazle or chesnut
hair, and the limbs and extremities long and
slender.
This planet being well digniﬁed also giVes
a strong, subtle imagination; incomparable
understanding and retentive memory, the native
often proving an excellent orator or a skilful
philosopher. But if g! be ill digniﬁed the
person represented will be of weak intellect,
and withal a slanderer, boastcr, liar, sycophant,
and very much addicted to “ petit larceny.”
2: rules the brain, tongue, hands and
feet. All disorders of the brain, defects of
memory, imperfection of speech, headache,
gout, and whatever impairs the intellectual
faculties are attributed to him.
$01, or the 5am
The SUN (9, that resplendent luminary,
whose glorious eﬁ'ulgcnce induced some of the
eastern nations to worship him as a type of
the Eternal God, is considered by astrologers
D2
40
to be masculine, temperately hot and dry, but
indicative of no real good or evil as to his own
nature, being changeable according to dignity
and aspect, and a most powerful source of ill
fortune when afﬂicted with evil planets, or in
his debilities. When presiding at a nativity,
or indicative of an inquirer, 810., he generally
describes one of a large, bony, strong body;
sun-burnt complexion; large high forehead,
Shaded with light or sandy curling hair, which
falls off at a comparatively early age; a ﬁne,
full, piercing hazle eye, and the limbs straight
and well proportioned.
If he is well digniﬁed, the person will be
noble, magnanimous, generous, humane, bene
volent, affable ; in friendship faithful and
sincere, in promises slow but punctual, and
often thoughtful, secret, and reserved; in con
versation he will say little, yet, when he does
speak, it will be conﬁdently and to the purpose ;
his gait is majestic ; he is a lover of sumptu
ousness and magniﬁcence, and superior to any
thing sordid, base, or dishonourable.
41
If G be ill digniﬁed, then will the native
be mean, loquacious, proud, arrogant, restless,
troublesome, domineering; of no gravity;
inclined to cruelty, mischief, and ill-nature ; a
sycophant to his superiors, at the same time
disdaining them. Many planets in *, or
within that distance from 9, causes the native
to be of an eminent name: an 8 of many
planets to Q typiﬁes the contrary, and such a
conﬁguration is peculiarly unfortunate.
His DISEASES are palpitations of the heart,
fainting and swooning; weakness of sight;
fevers; disorders of the brain; cramps; and
disorders in the mouth and throat.
He is said to govern the heart, back, reins,
right eye of man and left eye of woman.
ﬂit): Bragnn’s ﬂeas am! Bragon's
died.
The DaAeox’s HEAD {,3 is masculine,
and of the conjoined natures of 1!. and 2 , but
the DRAGON’S TAIL 29 is feminine and of a
malignant tendency. As before stated, they are
two imaginary points,3diamet1'ically opposite
D
42
to each other, where the Moon crosses the
ecliptic or path of the Sun. These points are
moveable at the rate of three minutes and
eleven seconds daily, or nineteen degrees and
twenty minutes in a year, moving round the
ecliptic in eighteen years and two hundred and
twenty-ﬁve days : the Moon therefore at every
lunation crosses at a different place, and an
Eclipse never occurs but when she is in, or
very near these points: an Eclipse of the
Sun when the Moon is in her ascending node
or 53, and one of the Moon when she is in her
descending node or 23.
William Lilly, the great astrologer of
Charles the First’s time says, the head of the
Dragon is of a benevolent nature, and almost
eduivalent to one of the Fortunes (Hand 2 ),
and when in aspect to evil planets is found to
abate' their malignant effects in a very eminent
degree. But the Dragon’s Tail we have always
found of an evil tendency; whenever joined
with evil planets, their malevolence is doubled ;
when joined with good,their beneﬁcial inﬂuence
is much abated.
43
After all this, either of these points
being possessed of any inﬂuence, has been
very much doubted by modern writers, parti -
cularly in nativities, though we are of opinion
that in Horary Questions they ought not to be
totally disregarded.
an: we of Jurtum GB
This is also an imaginary point in the
Zodiac, and rejected (together with '53 and 23
before treated of) by some modern professors
of the astral science. It may demand less of
our regard than the two nodes, but in that
branch of astrology on which these pages
treat it undoubtedly ought not to be oVer
looked, particularly in some questions where
the signiﬁcators for and against appear to
counterbalance, in which case, the PART OF
FORTUNE can alone decide. ’
The cause of such an imaginary point
having any inﬂuence, or properties generally
understood by that name appears to be, that Q
I) and the eastern point of the horizon, being
44
the prime conduits through which the stream
of life ﬂows, this seat of the Part of Fortune
is the harmony of all three, concentrating and
uniting their natures in one point, which,
when it is found to fall among fortunate stars,
is indicative of good, and if it be found in the
ﬁrst, ﬁfth, or eleventh house of the ﬁgure, then
it promises success in health or wealth, honour
or offspring; and so on with respect to any
other of its looations. I
As its place is now seldom inserted in the
almanacks, we shall give the mode of calculat
ing it in a subsequent part of the work, when
the reader has become a little more acquainted
with the technical words of the science.
SIGNIFICA'I‘ION
OF THE
SUN AND PLANETS IN THE TWELVE HEAVENLY
CONSTELLATIONS.
N.B. The fortunate planets, by their propitious
rays, modify the otherwise haneful inﬂuences of the
malevolent planets; and on the contrary, the fortunes
are materially lessened in benignity, by evil rays and
aspects.
PERSONS DESCRIBED BY
SATUBRtn the Twelve Signs.
I? In ARIES represents one of a moderate
stature, ruddy complexion, but Somewhat
obscure, high forehead, great eyes, dark hair,
but little heard; a spare person ; greatly boast
ing in his actions; ill-natured, quarrelsome,
and contentious.
46
I; In TAURUS represents a mean stature,
lean body, a heavy lumpish person, dark hair;
generally inclined to vicious and sordid actions,
and delighting in all sorts of dissipation.
I? In GEMINI represents one of a middle
stature, oval face, dark hair, a well propor
tioned body ; humane, ingenious, but perverse
in disposition, and generally unfortunate.
b In CANCER signiﬁes a middle stature,
of a sickly and sometimes crooked body, thin
face, brown hair; vicious, and inclined to
malice and hatred.
I; In LEO, one something tall, large boned,
but not a fat person; the hair of a light brown;
his temper and disposition tolerably good, but
somewhat passionate and malicious : he has an
appearance of nobility.
I? In VIRGO discovers a tall, thin, melan
choly, malicious person, with a swarthy com
plexion and dark hair ; he will be inclined to
study; when angry, difﬁcult to appease:
sometimes he proves a thief, and is generally
unfortunate.
47
I? In LIBRA represents a large, well com
posed body, oval face, large forehead, and
brown hair; he is high spirited and very con
ceited ; rather prodigal, inclined to anger and
controversy, and often victor.
I? In SCORPIO signiﬁes a person of a low
stature, broad shoulders, and brown or black
hair; quarrelsome, fond of debate, and sordid.
I? In SAGITTARY represents one well c0111
posed, rather tall, with brown hair ; courteous,
but will not take any provocation; he is ch0
leric, but soon reconciled, and merciful.
I; In CAPRICORN represents a not very tall
‘ person, with alean body and long face, little
eyes, dark hair, and a sallow complexion; he
is silent, covetous, melancholy, peevish, angry,
and grave.
I; In AQUARIUS gives a middle stature,
inclined to fatness; a courteous disposition,
ingenious, yet conceited in his ingenuity, and
a lover of the arts. 5'.‘ _
48
I; In PISCES produces one of a middle
stature, pale countenance, dark hair, and a
great head; malicious, contentious, and dis
sembling.
man in the Twelve Signs.
It In ARIES denotes a middle stature; a.
ruddy, oval visage; lightish hair, quick sharp
eye; a very obliging person, of a noble dispo
sition, and a lover of friendship, peace, and
tranquillity. .
21. In TAURUS represents one of a disagree
able, swarthy complexion and mean stature,
with brown hair; wise, discreet, and humane,
but a lover of women. I
2; In GEMINI denotes a rather tall and
handsome person; brown hair; courteous,
obliging, and a lover of arts, sciences, and
women.
1;. In CANCER represents a middle stature,
pale, oval countenance, and dark hair, a very
pleasant person withal, aspiring at great things,
but a busy body.
‘ 49
It In LEO signiﬁeth one of a tall, hand
some stature, with light hair, something curl
ing; ﬁne eyes; of a ﬂorid complexion, and
good disposition; bold, delighting in valiant
actions, and very desirous of honour.
74 In VIRGO gives a well-composed body
and dark coloured hair; he is much given to
learning, but choleric, covetous, and ambi
tious ; generally handsomef
It In LIBRA represents a neat person, of
a pleasant, oval countenance, and light hair;
good disposition, delighting in all pleasant
exercises and recreations; and by his good
behaviour, beloved of all men.
It In SCORPIO denotes a. middle stature,
inclined to corpulency: a dusky complexion ;
brown hair; one of an ill~nature, covetous, '
conceited of his own actions, and thinking
himself above his superiors.
It In SAGITTARY represents one of a tall
stature, ruddy, oval visage; chesnut hair;
E
50
'good manners, just, fond of horses, and natur
ally a good horseman.
2!. In CAPRICORN represents a little per
son, thin, pale face and brown hair ; weakly,
peevish, and sickly.
74 In AQUARIUS sheweth a middle stature
and well set ; a good complexion, and brown
hair; of a merry disposition, delighting in
good company; veryjust.
24 In PISCES repreSents one of amean
stature, inclined to fatness, the hair light
brown; he loveth mirth, music, the arts and
sciences; is very ingenious, fond of good
company and pleasant recreations, and is
fortunate by water.
MARS in the Twelve Signs.
3‘ In ARIES signiﬁes a middle sized,
large boned, and well set person, of a swarthy
complexion: sometimes the hair is red, or of
a light colour, and curling; a sharp hazle eye,
51
bold countenance, ambitious of rule, a lover
of war and contests.
3‘ In TAURUS signiﬁes a middle stature;
dull complexion; broad vface; great wide
mouth; black hair; and n0 very pleasant
person; he has often a mark from some
weapon on his face; a treacherous, false,
dissembling person; gluttonous, luxurious,
and debauched.
3‘ In GEMINI denotes one of a tall stature,
dark coloured hair; of a wandering, unsettled
mind, choleric, rash, and turbulent.
3‘ In CANCER describes a short, dispro
portioned body, sometimes crooked; the hair
brown; the complexion light; a sottish, dull
spirited, quarrelsome, mean person.
3‘ In LEO represents a tall, strong person,
with light brown hair, and a large face, and
large eyes; very hasty, though free hearted
and generous; he delighteth in shooting, and
all warlike exercises.
E 2
52
3‘ In VIRGO giveth a well proportioned,
middle sized person, of a dark complexion;
soon angry, and then difﬁcult to appease; one
sufﬁciently ill-conditioned; and unfortunate
in most of his actions.
3‘ In LIBRA describes a somewhat tall
person, with an oval countenance and light
brown hair; of a. sanguine complexion; a
pleasant, cheerful countenance ; loving women,
and ambitions of praise.
3‘ In SCORPIO represents one of a middle
stature ; swarthy broad face; black curling
hair; ungrateful, revengeful, and quarrelsome,
yet Very ingenious in several of the arts and
sciences.
3‘ In SAGITTARY describes one of a tall
stature, and in every part well proportioned,
an oval visage, brown hair, and of exceeding
good complexion; he is fond of good merry
society; of a hot disposition, and joyeth in
war and warlike sports.
3‘ In CAPRICORN discovereth a mean,
spare body; thin face, little head, black hair,
53
but indifferent complexion; of a good spirit,
ingenious and sharp; fortunate in his actions.
3‘ In AQUARIUS represents a middle sta
ture, well proportioned; a good complexion,
with red or sandy coloured hair; he is very
quarrelsome, and much given to controversy,
which often proves to his own prejudice.
3‘ In PISCES describes a short, ﬂeshy,
unhandsome looking person, with light hair;
he is of a dull, stupid understanding; dis
sembling; and delights in lewd company.
LUNA in the 'I'welve Signs.
D In ARIES represents one of a middle
size, round face, light brown hair, and good
complexion ; in disposition choleric and churl
ish, ambitions of honour, but not very for
tunate in his actions.
1) In TAURUS describes one of a middle,
well composed, strong, corpulent stature,
black or dark brown hair: aperson of good
behaviour, sober, obliging, and just, whereby
E 3
54
he sometimes obtains prefermeut, and is uni
versally beloved.
I) In GEMINI represents a tall well pro
portioned person, with dark brown hair and
a. good complexion; but cress, crafty, and
deceitful; ingenious, but unfortunate.
1) In CANCER sheweth a well made per
son of middle stature ; inclined to fatness, but
of a pale complexion, round face, and dark
hair: of a good disposition, wise, prudent,
just, and fortunate.
Dln LEO ; a large handsome man, san
guine complexion, full face, large eyes, and
light brown hair; proud, ambitious, domineer
ing, hating subjection to any; beloved by few
and seldom fortunate.
I) In VIRGO describes a large person of
an indifferently good complexion, oval face,
and dark hair: covetous, pensive, melancholy,
ingenious, unfortunate.
» In LIBRA denotes a rather tall person,
sanguine complexion, light hair; of a good
55
disposition, delighting in pleasant recreations,
as music, dancing, &c., taking much pleasure
in women’s company, but not very fortunate
in his aﬁ'airs.
D In Sconrro represents a little (and
oftentimes very fat) person, obscure in com
plexion, dark hair, and of an evil disposition;
malicious, treacherous, and sottish.
D In SAGITTARY describes one of a mid
dle stature, well made, sanguine complexion,
oval countenance, and light brown hair: some
what choleric and hasty, but soon pleased
again ; ambitious ; and very obliging.
D In CAPRICORN represents one spare,
lean and diminutive, with dark hair; he
has often some defect in the knees; given to
drinking, &c. ; idle, and delighting in nothing
good.
D In Aquaaws represents amiddle sized,
well composed, though corpulent body, of a.
sanguine complexion and brown hair; he has
a searching fancy and is ingenious, courteous,
56
delighting in moderate recreations, hating evil
actions, and beloved by many.
1) In PISCES represents a little person
inclined to corpulency, of a pale complexion
and bright brown hair; he is idle, taking
pleasure in no good actions, and unfortunate.
VENUS in the Twelve sign-
2 In ARIES represents one slender and
middle sized, rather well proportioned, of a
good complexion, light hair; sometimes a
lover of company, and very extravagant and
unfortunate, because Venus receives her detri
ment in fr.
9 In TAURUS discovereth a middle sized,
well proportioned, comely person, with a good
complexion, and dark brown hair: he is well
disposed and obliging, beloved of every one,
and fortunate in his actions.
2 In GEMINI signiﬁes a tall slender well
formed person, good complexion and brown
57
hair; he is loving, free hearted, just, merciful,
charitable, and honest.
Q In CANCER describes one short in
stature, and inclined to fatness; pale, round
face and light hair; mutable, inconstant, glut
tonous, idle, loving jovial company and vain
sports.
9 In LEO represents a rather tall, well
formed body, a good complexion; round face,
sometimes freckled ; a full eye and light hair ;
he is angry, but soon appeased, generous, free
humoured ; sometimes proud, and sickly.
9 In VIRGO denotes one moderately tall
and well composed, of an obscure dusky com
plexion, oval face, and dark hair ; very ingeni
ous, but often crossed in his understanding,
an active, subtle person, of a searching fancy.
9 In LIBRA describes a well proportioned,
tall, upright person, of a sanguine complexion,
oval visage with dimples in the cheeks and
beautiful brown hair; sometimes freckles in the s
face; courteous, respectable, and virtuous.
58
9 In SCORPIO representsa middle stature,
well set person, somewhat fat, a broad face,
dark hair, and dusky complexion; quarrel
some, hateful, envious, contentious, and un
worthy.
Q In SAGITTARY denotes one tall, and
well set, of a clear skin, oval countenance, and
light brown hair; good disposition, noble spirit,
delighting in pleasant recreations, but a little
proud and passionate, yet will not continue
long in his anger.
$2 In CAPRICORN discovers a middle sized,
lean, sickly person, thin face, dark hair; a
lover of women; given to drinking, and talking
of his pleasures, but not very fortunate.
2 In AQUARIUS describes a handsome
person, with beautiful complexion and light
hair; of good disposition, courteous, loving
peace and good actions, delighting in civil
recreations.
9 In PISCES denotes one of a middle
stature, good complexion, round face, and
59
sometimes a dimple in the chin, and light hair ;
well disposed, ingenious, just, and loving
tranquillity. '
MERCURY in the Twelve Signs.
§ In ARIES describes a short lean person,
with oval face, clear skin and light brown hair;
one quarrelsome, discontented, lying, thievish,
and contentious.
§ In TAURUS represents one middle sized,
well set and corpulent, of swarthy complexion,
and dark hair; loving company, ease, and
women.
§ In GEMINI; a Well composed and rather
tall person, of good complexion and light hair;
he is ingenious, loving the arts and sciences,
and will easily attain them without a master.
§ In CANCER; a mean stature, bad'com
plexion, thin face, sharp nose, little ‘eyes, and
dark hair; given to malice, knavery, drinking, .
lying, stealing, and dissimulation.
60
§ In LEO represents a large stature,
swarthy complexion, round face, large eyes,
and light brown hair; a choleric, proud, con
tentious, mischievous person.
s In VIRGO represents a tall, slender,
well composed person; of obscure complexion,
long visage, and dark hair; ingenious, and
delighting to go in good apparel.
t; In LIBRA gives a moderately tall stature,
well proportioned; a sanguine complexion,
and light brown hair; he is wise, well disposed,
ingenious, just, virtuous, a lover of learning,
and a hater of vice.
§ In SCORPIO describesa person of middle
\stature, well set, and strong; swarthy com
plexion, dark curling hair, ingenious, loving
company and the ladies.
§ In SAGITTARY ﬁgures forth a tall stature,
ﬂorid complexion, oval visage, large nose, and
brown hair; a person quarrelsome, whereby
he sometimes proves an enemy to himself.
61
§ In CAPRICORN represents a little, thin,
bow-legged person; ruddy complexion, and
light brown hair; sickly, peevish, and unfor
tunate in many of his actions.
§ In AQUARIUS describes one of a middle
stature; corpulent, ﬂeshy body; full face,
brown hair, and good complexion; he is very
ingenious, obliging, and a. person well beloved
of his friends.
:5 In PISCES represents a little, sickly,
pale person, with brown hair; one much given
to drinking and the like, whereby he often
wasteth his estate.
50!- m the Twelve Signs.
(9 In ARIES represents a middle stature,
strong and well composed, a good complexion,
hair very light; one of a noble disposition,
glorying in war, and gaining much honour
and renown therein, being the terror of his
enemies.
62
Q In TAURUS describes a well-set, comely,
though short stature, broad face, wide mouth,
great nose, dull complexion, and brown hair;
one bold, conﬁdent, warlike, and victorious.
(9 In GEMINI describes a person of large
stature, sanguine complexion, brown hair, and
well composed body; he is well disposed,
courteous, not very fortunate, yet contented,
and will pass by slight abuses.
Q In CANCER denotes a little, unhealthy
person, of a bad complexion, and often some
defect in the face; brown hair; good natured,
delighting in merry company, sports, pastimes,
and women ; a free humoured jovial person.
(9 In LEO represents a strong, well made
person, with a full face, large eyes, light hair,
and sanguine complexion; he is faithful and
just to his friend, courteous to all men; per
forms his promises fully; desirous of honour,
and fond of society; he hath sometimes a scar
on his face.
63
G) Ill-VIRGO shews one well proportioned,
not large or fat, with abundance of dark hair,
and a good complexion ; well disposed, pleasant
and ingenious.
G In LIBRA describes one of an erect body,
good complexion, oval visage, full eye, light
hair : he is unfortunate, particularly in warfare,
loosing his honour, and exposed to much
danger therein.
9 In Scoarlo represents a middle sized,
well-set person, of a cloudy complexion, he
bath a full face, brown hair, and is inclined
to fatness ; of a rugged nature, but ingenious,
desirous of honour, expert in war,.physic, and
chemistry: fortunate on the sea.
0 In SAGITTARY describes a handsome,
tall person, with an oval countenance, and
light brown hair; he is high-spirited, proud,
ambitions of honour, 'and delighting in war;
active, pleasant, but will take abuse from no
one.
Q In CAPRICORN describes one little, lean
and spare, not very well proportioned, the face
F 2
64
oval, brown hair, and white complexion; very
ingenious, victorious, and well disposed, at the
same time of an undaunted spirit.
9 In AQUARIUS sheweth a corpulent,
middle sized body, of a good complexion, full,
round face, light hair; and desirous of bearing
rule over others.
(9 In PISCES describes one of low stature,
rather good complexion; a round face, light
hair, and corpulent body; he delighteth in
merriments, sports, games, and women’s com
pany, and is expensive and prodigal.
\Vith the preceding description of the
planets in the signs, and the assistance of the
following table, taken from a valuable old
author, the student will be able to describe
any particular person (a thief for instance)
with such accuracy, that he may almost (if
he be an artist “ to boot”) delineate his features
though he has never seen them.
65
TABLE, snnwrso THE oneness MAsceusn,
FEMININE, &c., IN men star: or run ZODIAC
.5 ,3; >'.l . e: e ' _
g Q- m 43 :50 E - 5 +3 E
a 6-2 g5 ,3 Q 51> 5: 3' 1-4 _ 5 g 5
we“ a; p s {it so” @522
I" Q g Q a: =~ E a”. "‘ '2 '~ ‘7" ’4 3b“
a 2 Fe 2.” E.” @012" gm ‘3? Q gag;
Q Q 51" Q in 5'"
8.15: 9 8.20. 3 24 6.11.16 19
‘Y’ 30 I 22 29 | 16 _ 30 23.29
3 11.21: 517 7.1" 3 12 5.12 6.7.8 3.15
30 24 2s 30 20 24.25 9.10 27
n 16 5.22 4.12 7 -16 212.17 11
26 so 22 27_ '30 26.30
_ 9.10.11
0. 2.10 812 12 14 2018121723 12131.23
4’26.30 27 2s 30 26.30 14.15 4.15
5.15 s , 6.13.15 18.27 2.5.7
9v 30 23 3° 1° 20120222328 28 19
12 s —s 5 £10 8.13.16 T14
"31 30 20 16 30 2227 21.22 20
MT Tux—IT 17 3.15
* 30 27 27 21 3° 20.30 21
m 4.17 14 s a 2414 9.10.22 19 7.18
30 25 22 30 29 23.27 28 20
2.12 5 9.19 , 7.12.15 1.7.8 1
f 30 24 30 ‘2 23 24.27.30 18.191320
__1T _ .10— 7.22 I 7.17.22 26.27 wt
V9 30 19 19 30 1535 24.29 28.29 14.20
M 5.2115259—21 1 . 1.12.17 7.16
M .27 30 30 13 4i2i’22.24.29 18'191720
‘1073 WEEK?" .- 4.9.24 .—
9‘ 30 | 28| 2s 30‘ i2" 27.28 15-2“
F 8
66
The foregoing table is also ofparticular use
in nice and doubtful questions, as will appear
when its use is explained.
In the ﬁrst column, next to (r, you ﬁnd
8. 15. 30; and in the second column, against
w, you ﬁnd 9. 22: which intimates that the
ﬁrst 8 degrees of <7) are masculine, the 9th,
feminine; from 9 to 15 masculine, from 15 to
22 feminine, from 22 to 30 masculine: and
so of the other signs.
In the fourth column, under “ Degrees
light,” against 17>, you ﬁnd 8. 20. 29; and
and in the ﬁfth column, against <Y>, you ﬁnd
3. 16; which shews that the ﬁrst three de
grees of <Y’ are dark, from 3 to 8 light, from
8 to 16 dark, and from 16 to 20 light, &c.
The 8th, 9th, and 10th columns exhibit the
degrees of the Ecliptic that are deep or pitted,
lame, deﬁcient, or azemene, and those degrees
which increase fortune, as the title directs.
The use is as follows :—
Vthn a question is proposed concerning
theft; if the thief be a man or a woman P—or
67
if a woman he ensient of a boy or girl"? When
the testimonies of your ﬁgure are equal, then
consider the degrees of the cusp of yourhouses
relating to the question, and the degrees
wherein you ﬁnd the principal signiﬁcator;
and if the major part of them be in degrees
masculine, it is a male: if feminine, a female,
8w.
If the degrees ascending in a nativity or
question, be those which are termed light, the
person signiﬁed thereby will be more clear and
fair; if dark, &c., the complexion dark,
cloudy, &c.
If the degrees ascending are termed void,
the person will be of a weak understanding,
and deficient in intellect.
If the degrees ascending, or the principal
signiﬁcator, be deep or pitted, it denotes the
querent or native will be imperfect in body or
mind; perhaps both.
When you ﬁnd any degrees, &c., as before,
lame, &c., the person represented is defective
68
in some part of the body: crooked, lame, or
blind, 8:0.
And lastly, if you ﬁnd the cusp of the
second house, or the Lord of the second, or
63, or his Lord, or 2;, in any of those degrees
that increase fortune, it is an argument of
much wealth, and promises great prosperity.
It may not be considered desultory to in
sert here, at the close of the description of the
signs and planets, an explanation of the mean
ing of the hieroglyphieal characters by which
they are known ; particularly as some writers
have given explanations of late, which we can
not help but consider very erroneous, and
indeed absurd. \Ve also ﬂatter ourselves with
the hope, that such explanation may not prove
altogether useless in impressing on the memory
of the young student, the recollection of the
various characters.
Pr This character obviously represents the
curled horns of the Ram, and about the time
the sun enters Aries the lambs begin to follow
the sheep.
69
3 In this character the rude and hasty
delineation of a Bull's head and short horns
may be seen, and when the sun has advanced
far, the time approaches for the cows to bring
forth their young.
11 \Vhat two things can be more alike than
two straight lines of the same length P This
sign was originally two kids, signifying the
season of the goats bringing forth their young,
which are usually two at a time.
Q The meaning of this is doubtful, but
some consider it a symbol of the twisting,
sidelong, and retrograde motion of the Crab :
and when the sun has obtained this sign, he
begins to return again to the south as a Crab
walks backwards.
$1, The hind quarter and tail of a. Lion.
The Lion being a furious animal, denotes the
irresistible heat of the sun during his progress
through this sign, in the month of July.
n1 What this has to do with a. Virgin or
cars of wheat we are at a. loss to imagine,
70
though this character is said to shadow forth,
three ears of wheat. The virgin-gleaner aptly
indicates the time of the year, when the golden
harvest rapidly falls under the hook of the
reaper.
2 Here we have delineated the beam of a.
Balance, which evidently denotes the equality
of length in the days and nights during the
Sun’s progress through Libra.
111 Most antiquaries have agreed in con
sidering this character to represent the many
legs and sting of the Scorpion; which typiﬁes
the malignant diseases that often prevail at
“ the fall of the leaf.”
.1‘ This either represents the Centaur’s
javelin or the Archer’s ﬂrrow; and at the time
the Sun is in this sign, the sportman’s arrow,
in olden time, whistled sharp after the game.
1/5' The meaning of this character is doubt
ful, though its fantastic form puts one strongly
in mind of the droll and capricious friskings
of the Goat. It is placed in this part of the
’ 71
Zodiac to indicate, that the Sun having attained
its greatest southern declination, begins again
to climb to the north; as the wild goat is
always found climbing and ascending some
mountain as it browses.
.ctt'These undulating lines, shew the succes
sive Riples of Water, which usually prevails in
the form of rain, &c., at this season, sometimes
to our exceeding great annoyance.
X We see rudely drawn in this hierogly
phic two Fishes tied together, which indicates
that when the Sun gets into this sign the winter
is drawing to a close, and though the ﬂocks do
not yet yield their store, yet the seas and rivers
are open, and ﬁsh maybe caught in abundance.
The Zodiacal Signs were not, as some have
supposed, invented by the Egyptians, but by
the Chaldeeans ;' for why should the Egyptians
invent a zodiac inapplicable to their own
climate P For instance ml evidently points to
the season of harvest; but in Egypt, where the _
fertility of the country depends on the annual
72
overﬂowing of the Nile, the period of harvest
is in March. Also ,c'x', by which is meant the
chilling rains of winter; whereas hardly any
rain at all falls in Egypt ; and their winter is
the ﬁnest season of the year. Hence it is
evident that the Egyptians were not the inven
tors, or if they were, it must have been in
some primeval country, inhabited by them
before their migration to the banks of the Nile,
which we are informed by the most sacred
authority was Chaldaaa.
We will now go on to explain the meaning
of the planetary characters ; commencing with
the Sun in the centre, and proceed progres
sively to the verge of the system.
Q Represents a round Shield with a Boss
in the centre, which in ancient times was
polished so as almost to rival the Sun in
splendour, to the intent that it might dazzle
the eye of the enemy.
73
- {5 This is the Caduceus of the mythological
Mercury, being a staff, with two serpents
twisted contrariwise round it.
9 has been said to be ayrude representation
of “ a female ﬁgure with a trailing or ﬂowing
robe l” but who could think it was any thing
else than the looking-glass of the fair goddess i’
D The meaning of this is obvious.
3‘ Either the spear or shield of the warrior
god, or “ a man holding a spear protruded!"
judge, “ gentle reader."
21. No one has yet been able to give a
solution of this symbol; some say it is a
thunderbolt.
1; The scythe that levels all things.
lg The initial of the Discoverer’s name,
with an orb suspended from it.
53 23 These characters have evidently been
corrupted, and were originally two semicircles ;
G
'74
the convex one representing the arch described
by the Moon in her passage through one-half
of her orbit, north of the equinoctial; and the
concave one the other half of her orbit which
runs south of the equinoctial.
69 The ret'olving wheel of Fortune.
A LPHABETICAL LIST
OF THE TECHNICAL WORDS AND TERMS MADE USE
0? BY ASTROLOGICAL WRITERS.
APPLICATION signiﬁeth the approach
ing of two planets together, either by conjunc
tion or aspect, and is of three kinds; the ﬁrst
is when a planet swift in motion applies to one
of a slower progress, which is termed a direct
application; the second kind is formed by two
retrograde planets,and thisis termed a retrograde
application; the third kind is occasioned by
one planet going direct in motion, and meeting
another planet that is retrograde; and these
two last are deemed evil applications. Observe,
the superior planets never apply to the in
ferior, but by a. retrograde motion; whereas
the inferior planets apply both ways.
G 2
76
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE is the
distinction between the right and oblique
ascension of any star or planet, reckoned on the
Equator.
BE SIEGED‘ is when a planet has 3‘ within
ﬁve degrees on one side of it, and I? or @
within ﬁve degrees on the other.
CAZIMI; that is, when a planet is situated
in the heart of the Sun, or only 17 minutes
before or after it: a planet in Cazimi is forti
ﬁed; but a planet COMBUST is of a malignant
indication.
COMBUSTION; a planet is said to be
combust when it is within 8 degrees 30 minutes
of the Sun's body, either before or after their
conjunction: but a planet is more aﬂiicted
when applying to his body, than when it is
separating from combustion.
DIRECT, is when a planet moves accord
ing to the succession of the signs, from west to
77
east, or from 4y, to 3 , from 8 to 11; and out
of 5 degrees to 6°, 7°, 8°, and forward.
DE CLINATION is the distance a planet
swerves either north or south from the Equator
or Equinoctial Line.
FRUSTRATION, is when a swift or light
planet approaches to an aspect with one more
slow and ponderous, but before it can approach
near enough to form that aspect, the weighty
planet is joined to some other, by which the
i ﬁrst aspect is frustrated, and utterly destroys
every thing promised by it.
HOROSCOPE, is a ﬁgure 01' scheme of
the Twelve Houses of Heaven, wherein the
position of the Heavens are collected for any
given time, either for the purpose of calculat
ing inativities, or answering horary questions;
it also signiﬁes the degree or point of the
Heavens rising above the eastern point of the
horizon, but this is now usually called the
Ascendant, or cusp of the First House.
G 3
78
INCREASING IN LIGHT, is when a
planet is departing from the Sun, or the Sun
from a planet.
INFERIOR PLANETS are those moving
within the orbit of the Earth, that is, 2 and
§ ; the Moon is also an inferior.—See Superior
Planets.
ORIENTAL and OCCIDENTAL. A
planet when Oriental riseth before the Sun;
when Occidental, sets after the Sun, and is
seen above the horizon after the Sun is down:
when Oriental, it is east; when Occidental,
west.
Whalley, in his Annotations on Ptolemy’s
Quadripartite, lib. Leap. 6. says “ In the vulgar
Astrology, a star or planet is esteemed oriental
from the Fourth House to the ascendant, and
from the ascendant to the mid-heaven; but by
Ptolemy only such as proceed from the hori20n
to the meridian are said to be Oriental."
OBLIQUE ASCENSION, is the degrees
and minutes of the Equinoctial Line that comes
79
to, or rises with the degree of longitude of any
star or planet in the horizon; or it is the
degree of the Equinoctial that comes to the
horizon with any star or planet in an oblique
sphere.
OBLIQUE DECENSION, is the degree
ofthe Equinoctial Line that sets in the horizon,
with the degree of longitude of 'any planet or
star in an oblique sphere.
PE RE GRIN E, is when a planet is situated
in a sign where it has no essential dignities,
either by house, exaltation, or triplicity. In
all questions of theft it is very material to
know the peregrine planet, for it has been
found, that the thief may almost constantly be
discovered by the peregrine planet posited in
an angle, or in the second house.
PROHIBITION, is when two planets are
applyng by body or aspect, and before they
come to their partile aspect, another planet meets
with the aspect of the former, and so pro
hibits the completion of the matter inquired of.
80
Asg‘in10°q’;$5° KY’; and 315° m; hereQis
applying to a d of 3‘ ; but before they come
in perfect conjunction, § being swift in
motion, comes to a conjunction with 3‘ before
52, and consequently prohibits her. Also
9, being a body swift of course, frequently
impedites the other planets, either by body or
aspect. I
RETROGRADE, is when a planet appears '
to move backwards, from 10 degrees to 9°, 8°,
7°, &c., and so, contrary to the succession of
signs, out of Taurus into Aries; and is noted
in the Ephemeris, or Ahnanack, thus R.
RE FRANATION, is when a planet is
applying to the body or aspect of another, and
before he comes to it he falls retrograde, and
s0 refrains to form the aspect expected.
RECEPTION, is “dien two planets that
are signiﬁcators in any question, are in each
other’s dignities, either by house, exaltation,
or triplicity, as $01 in Cancer, and Luna in
Leo; here they are in reception by house; or
81
Sol in Taurus, and Luna in Aries, this is
reception by exaltation, &c. In practice the
use of this is considerable : for instance, if the
event is denied by the aspects, the thing
desired may shortly come to pass by reception,
to the satisfaction of all concerned.
RIGHT ASCENSION, is the number of
the degrees and minutes of the Equinoctial
Line, reckoned from Aries, that comes to the
meridian with the Sun, Moon, stars, and
planets, or any portion of the Ecliptic.
~ SEPARATION, is when two planets have
been lately in conjunction, or aspect, and are .
just separating from it; as Saturn in 19
degrees of Libra, and Mercury in 12 degrees
of 'Libra: here Mercury is separating from a
conjunction with Saturn; but they are still in
platick conjunction so long as they remain
within their orbs. The exact knowledge of
the separation of these aspects is of the utmost
consequence in giving judgment upon various
important occasions. For example; suppose
it were demanded whether a certain treaty of
82
'marriage would take place or not; when all
the aspects are collected in the horoscope or
ﬁgure, and the two planets that are signiﬁcators
of the parties are found applying to each other
in conjunction, and in common or ﬁxed signs,
angular, and approaching swift in motion to a
conjunction, it may then be consummated in
a 'very short time; but if the signiﬁcators are
separated from a conjunction, only a few
minutes of a degree, one may safely conclude
that there have been great probabilities only a
few days before, that the marriage would have
taken place; but by this aspect the parties
appear to be in suspense, or a dislike has
taken place; and as the signiﬁcators gradually
separate from the partile and platick conjunc
tions, in the same gradation will the affection
of the parties alienate and wear away, and by
the comparative time the aspect will be before
it entirely leaves, will the time be so many
weeks, months, or years, before the parties
shall wholly relinquish the connection.
SINISTER ASPECT is an aspect pro
jected by a planet progressively with the signs
83
of the Zodiac, and is said to be of inferior
power to aDexter aspect, which is on the
contrary an aspect reverse to the order of the
Zodiac.
STATIONARY, is understood of a. planet,
when, to the eye or sense of a beholder on the
Earth, it appears to stand still ; a planet in this
case is said to be in its station, which are the
two points in which it is farthest removed from
the Sun on each side : planets are always
stationary before and after retrogradation.
SUPERIOR PLANETS, are Herschell,
Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, they are also called
the ponderous planets, and govern or over-rule
the Inferiors,—Which see.
SWIFT OF COURSE, is when a planet
moves more in twenty-four hours than his
mean motion ; and he is consequently
SLOW OF COURSE, when he moves
less in twenty-four hours than his mean
motion. It has been said that when a planet
84
is but very slow in motion or stationary, it
causes it to operate more strongly, and hence
I; and 2‘ being slow, have effects much more
powerful than the inferior planets.
TRANSLATION OF LIGHT AND
VIRTUE, is when a lighter planet separates
from a weighty one, and immediately applies
to another superior and ponderous planet, and
so translates the light and virtue of the ﬁrst
planet to that which he applies to, as Saturn
in 20 degrees Aries, Jupiter in 30", and Mars
in 14°, of the same sign; here Mars separates
from a conjunction with Jupiter, and trans
lates the light and virtue of that planet to
Saturn, to whom he next applies. The effect
of this in practice will be, that if a matter
or thing be promised by Saturn, then who
ever was represented by Mars shall procure
all the assistance that the good planet Jupiter
could bestow, and translate it to Saturn,
whereby the business in hand would be the
better effected, and more happily concluded;
and this being a very fortunate position of the
85
planets, is very proper to be known, since it
promises much in law-suits, marriages, and all
other questions of the kind.
UNDER THE SUN’S BEAMS. A
planet is under the Sun’s beams 'until it is
removed seventeen degrees before or after his
body.
VOID OF COURSE, is when a planet
is separated from the body or aspect of another
planet, and does not during its continuance
in that sign form any aspect with any other.
This most usually happens with the Moon;
and in practice it is observed, that if the
signiﬁcator of the thing propounded be void
of course, the business under contemplation
will not succeed, nor be attended with any
satisfactory or pleasing consequences.
EXPLANATION
eat the Muslim: 20mm; of Qatar,
AND THE ASTROLOGICAL SIGNIFICATXONS AND
PROPERTIES THEREOF.
HOROSCOPE.
10
With a view that the reader may form a
clear idea of what is meant by the Twelve
87
Houses;* ﬁrst, let him suppose the whole
Heavens, or a celestial globe, divided into four
equal parts by the horizon and that line passing
through the two poles, and intersecting the
Sun’s place at noon, called the meridional line;
these four equal parts he must again suppose
to be each divided into three equal parts, by
lines drawn through the mutual intersections
of the horizon and meridian, and thus the
whole celestial sphere will be divided into
twelve parts, which constitute what are called
the TWELVE Houses or HEAVEN, “ and
these Houses, long observation and experience
(says Christopher Heydon) abudantly show,
make up that great Wheel qf Nature, whereon
depend the various fortunes contingent to all
sublunary matters and things.”
The drawing at the commencement of this
article, will probably be familiar to most of our
readers, and by counting the lines, he will
observe twelve, which correspond to the twelve
* The student must carefully distinguish between
these Houses, (which are of the Figure) and the Houses
of the Planets.
n 2
88
divisions already explained. Upon each of
these lines are written the degrees and minutes
of the sign found to be cut by them in the
Heavens, and in the spaces intermediate, the
exact places of the planets, &c., at the time the
ﬁgure is erected. These lines are called the
cusps of the Houses; as the cusp of the
Ascendant, the cusp of the Tenth House, &c.
The TWELVE Houses of a Figure are each
distinguished by their respective names, and
therefore are Angular, Succeedent, or Cadent.
The angular houses are four, namely, the First
House, marked with the ﬁgure 1 in the
Diagram, called the Ascendant or Eastern
angle; the Imum Ca’h', or bottom of Heaven,
being the Fourth House or northern angle, and
the point corresponding to midnight; the
DeScendent, or Seventh. House, called the
western angle; and the Medium lei or Mid
Heaven, being the Tenth House, or southern
angle, and corresponds to mid-day: these
four angles are deemed by far the most power
ful of all the houses. The Succeedent Houses,
89
namely, the second,ﬁﬁh, eighth, and eleventh,
are ranked next in force and virtue to the
angles. Lastly, the Cadent Houses are the
third, sixth, ninth, and twelfth, and are con
sidered of the least ctlicacy. All these houses
are numbered from the ascendant downwards,
according to the direction of the signs, as the
student by referring to the Diagram and Fron
tispiece will observe.
Now, to use the words of that learned
philosopher, Morinus, “In the construction
of man we discover four affections, viz. Life,
Action, llIarriage, and Passion ; these agree
with the rise, perfection, declination, and
termination of all things, and comprise the
whole effects and operations of Nature. But
to be brief: Lifie, in the system of nature, is
regulated by the east angle of the heavens,
called the Ascendant; Action, by the south
angle, or mid-heaven; Alarriage, by the west
angle; and Passion, by the north angle of the
Heavenly Frame: and hence arise Four
Trigons of the same genus or generical nature,
n3
90
and twelvo houses. The First Triyon is of
the eastern angle, attributed to Infancy, called
the TRIGON OF LIFE, and includes the ﬁrst,
ninth, and ﬁfth Houses, which behold each
other in a partile trine. The Second Trigon
has the government of the seVenth, third, and
eleventh Houses ; in this stage of life, man
is joined in a tie or obligation, in body, in
blood, and in friendship. The fourth and
last Trigon is that of Passion, and includes
in it the! fourth, twelfth, and eighth Houses;
and these constitute, as well as the rest, a
partile trine in the Equator: it comprehends
the three classes of human afﬂictions ; decay
of life, sorrow, and death. \Vherefore, accord
ing to the second motion of the planets, from
west to east, an entrance is made out of the
eighth into the ninth house, which is the
House of Life in God, where the immortal
spirit must return to that Divine Being who
gave it.”
By this the student will perceive, that each
house has respectively a signiﬁcation peculiar
to itself, and therefore, whatever be the ques
91
tion, he must ﬁrst direct his attention particu
larly to that house which signiﬁes the subject
enquired of.
The First House bears signiﬁcation of the
Life of Man; stature, complexion, form, shape,
and thoughts of him who propounds a question ;
and in short all questions that relate to Life or
Adventure, are to be answered from the First
House.
The Second House_ relates to Wealth or
Poverty, Prosperity or Adversity, Loss or Gain,
in any undertaking that may be propounded
by the querent, and also concerning moveable
goods, Money lent,0r employed in speculation.
In suits at law or equity it shews a man’s
friends.
The Third House gives judgment upon all
questions relative to Brethren, Sisters, Kindred,
and Neighbours ; and of all inland J ournies ;
and of removing one’s Manufactory orBusiness
from one place to another.
92
The Fourth House resolves all questions in
any way relating to the Father of the querent ;
also all inquiries concerning Land, Houses, ,or
Estates; or to Towns, Cities, Castles, or In
trenchments besieged, or Treasures hidden in
the ground; and all other things relating to
the earth are answered out of this house, ‘which
is called Imum Cazlz', 0r Angle of the Earth.
The Fifth House discloses every thing
relative to Children and to Pregnant Women,
and also questions- concerning the present
health of absent Sons or Daughters, or the
future health of those at home; also inquiries
relating to the real and personal effects of one’s
Father, or concerning the success of Mes
sengers and Ambassadors, or respecting the
Ammunition or Strength of a place besieged,
are all answered from this house.
The Sixth House resolves all questions that
in any respect appertain to Servants, Cattle of
the smaller sort, or the state of Sick persons,
whether curable or not, the nature of the
disease, and whether of short or long duration ;
93
particulars relating to Uncles or Aunts, and all
kindred on the Father’s side; also concerning
one’s Stewards, Tenants, &c.
The Seventh House enables us to resolve
all questions on Love affairs and Marriage, and
to describe the person of either man or woman
that the querent will be joined with in mar
riage; it likewise answers all inquiries of the
defendant in Law Suits or Litigations, or con
cerning our public Enemies in time of war; in
Thefts, it enables us to describe the person of
the Robber, by his shape, stature, complexion,
and condition of life; and it discovers Fugitives,
Outlawed men, and Offenders escaped from
justice ; it also signiﬁes Grandfathers.
The Eighth House resolves all inquiries
concerning Death, its time, quality, and nature,
with all matters relating to Legacies, \Vills, or
who shall inherit the fortunes or estates of the
Deceased. Inquiries as to the Portion of
Maids and Widows, in law suits relative to the
Defendant’s success and friends, and questions
respecting public or private enemies, or con
94
earning the substance and security of those we
connect ourselves with in businm, are all
answered by the situation of the planets in
this house.
The Sinlh House enables us to resolre all
questions on the safety and succes of Voyages
and Travels into foreign countries; concerning
the Clergy, Beneﬁces, Preferments, Advowsons,
8w. ; and all questions relative to kindred on
the \Vife’s side, (or husband’s, if the wife is
the querent); and all matters relating to the
Arts and Sciences, Books, 820.
The Tenth House, being the .lIedium Ca'Ii,
or most elevated part of the whole Zodiacal
Circle, resolves all questions concerning Kings,
Noblemen, Judges, Magistrates, and all other
persons in power and authority; it signiﬁes
the querent’s Brother; and also hath signiﬁca
tion of Honour and Preferment, if attainable
or not.
The Eleventh House answers all inquiries
relative to Friends, Hope, Trust, Expectance,
95
or Desire; also whatever relates to the Perﬁdy
of Friends.
The Twelfth House, being the House of
Tribulation, resolves all questions of Sorrow,
Afﬂiction, Anxiety of mind, Trouble, Distress,
and Imprisonment, Persecution, Malice, Secret
Enemies, Suicide, Treason, Assassination, and
all the misfortunes of mankind; it also answers
inquiries concerning large Cattle, and Relations
on the Mother's side.
TABLE
SHEWING THE QUARTERS OF HEAVEN SIGNIFIED
BY THE
Signs of the Zodiac and Twelve Houses.
it'gms.
‘Y’ East.
8 South by East.
11 West and by South.
9’5 North
51, Eastand by North.
ml South and by West.
-'_\- West
m North and by East.
1‘ East and by South.
W South.
32’ West and by North
X North and by West
39011525.
First is East.
Second is North East by East.
Third is North North East.
Fourth- is North.
Fifth is North-VVest by W'.
Sixth is West North~“'est.
Seventh is West
Eighth is South-“'est by S.
Ninth is South South-West.
Tenth is South.
Eleventh is South-East by E.
Twelfth is South South East.
The essential use of this Table will be seen in a
subsequent part of the work.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR
ERECTING OR CASTING- THE FIGURE,
AND PLACING THE PLANETS, 81(3- THEREIN, IN ORDER
TO ANSWER. AN
39mm; QMestinu.
Many have been the modes given for this
important operation, but it has been almost our
invariable practice to erect the ﬁgure by a
celestial globe; not only on account of the
great perspicuity of this mode, which places
the whole Heavens before us at one view, but
also the impossibility of mistakes occurring
from the inaccuracy of tables, &c. And more
over, tables being generally calculated for the
latitude of London, (Le. 51°. 32’) they of
course cannot be used with any degree of
certainty, for latitudes that differ more than
1
98
ﬁVe degrees from that place; whereas a globe
may be set so as to serve every possible lati
tude. But, for the accommodation of every
one, both those who are possessed of a globe
and those who are not, we shall give each
mode of calculation. And ﬁrst by the celes
tial globe.
Elevate the pole according to the latitude
of the place; ﬁnd the place of _the Sun in the
Zodiac for the day given, either by the wooden
horizon or an almanack ;* bring the same
degree, found on the globe, to the eastern
edge of the brazen meridian ; and turn round
the hour circle till the ﬁgures XII. are also
just under the eastern or graduated edge of the
brazen meridian. If the time of the day given
" White’s Ephemeris is the best and most copious
forthc use of the general astrological student, but to
students in the Horary Art we prefer Partridge, on
_account of its containing the lunar aspects for every day
in the year; Rogerson’s Temporis Calendari‘wm is no
despicable substitute. They are all published annually
with, and possess the same tables of feast days, 8w. &c.,
as the other almanaoks. '
99
be after twelve at noon, then turn the globe
round westward; if before twelve or morning,
turn it eastward, till the brazen meridian cuts
the given time on the hour circle.
Thus the globe will be in the position the
heavens are at the time given, and the
eastern side of the wooden horizon will cut
the degree and sign of the Zodiac on the cusp
of the First House or Ascendant.
Then ﬁx the circle of position* on the
graduated side of the meridian, at its intersec
tion with the horizon, and counting thirty
degrees from the eastern horizon up the
* Half ofa. split cane may be used in the place of
this instrument, inserting the end of the cane at the
southern intersection of the horizon and meridian, and
then, (the ﬂat side being next the globe,) bending it
over the degree counted on the Equator.
While setting the ﬁgure it will be found necessary
to ﬁx the globe steady, by means of a small wedge of
cork, which we always keep ready for the purpose,
suspended to the brazen meridian by a short string.
12
100
Equator, elevate the circle of position to that
point, and it will cut the degree and sign on
the cusp of the Twelfth House. Again elevate
it thirty degrees higher on the Equator, and
the circle of position will cut the degree and
sign on the cusp of the Eleventh House.
Look what point of the Zodiac is under the
brazen meridian, and that will be the degree
and sign on the cusp of the Tenth House.
Now remove the circle of position to the other
side of the meridian, and counting as before,
thirty degrees from the western horizon up
wards on the Equator, elevate the circle of
position to that point, and it will shew what
degree and sign is on the cusp of the Eighth
House; elevate it thirty degrees higher, and
you have the degree and sign on the cusp of
the Ninth House.
These must all be inserted in the ﬁgure
as they are ascertained, and you will ﬁnd that
thus the cusps of six Houses will be occupied,
viz., the ﬁrst, twelfth, eleventh, tenth, ninth
and eighth. The other six, being opposite to
101
the former, are always furnished with the same
degrees of the opposite signs, as follows :—
The 4th House is opposite to the 10th.
5th ............... llth,
6th ............................ .. 12th.
1st ..... ....................... .. 7th.
2nd ................. ... ........ .. 8th.
3rd .................. ... ....... .. 9th.
<Y' is opposite to i
g ................ .. m
n ................ .. 1
QB ................ .. V9
31 ............ a."
1111 ................ n X
And let not the young student he astounded,
if he ﬁndeth not the cusp of each house
possessed of a different sign, for sometimes (on
account of the obliquity of the Zodiac) one
sign will run the length of three houses !
This mode was introduced by the great and
learned John .Muller, surnamed Regiomontanus
1 3
04,2
/ 4; I
'102
(from Mons Regius, in Franconia, where
he was born, in 1436) and has now univer
sally superseded the more ancient system
of dividing the Zodiac, taught by Novarese
Campano, Chaplain to Urban IV, who main
tained that the thirty degrees ought to be
counted vertically from the east and west
points up towards the zenith.
Nothing now remains but to place the Sun,
Moon, and Planets, Dragon's Head and Tail,
in their proper degree and sign ; which
may be instantly done by referring to the
Ephemeris, where their places are calculated
for every day at noon; and, though for nice
purposes, it will be found necessary to refer to
the table of their mean motion, inserted at the
end of the “ ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES," yet,
in most horary questions, they may be placed
in the Horoscope as they are found in the
Ephemeris, except the place of the Moon,
which as she moves very rapidly in proportion
to the erratics, must have thirty-six minutes
taken from or added to her place found in the
103
Ephemeris, for every hour that the ﬁgure is
set before or after noon.
All is now ready for judgment; but in
questions where property is concerned, one
thing is still wanting, and that is the Part of
Fortune; the rule for calculating the place of
which is as follows :— '
Add the Ascendant to the-Moon’s place,
and from their sum subtract the Sun's place,
and the remainder will be the place of the
Part of Fortune.
Signs. Degrees.
Frontispiece, we observe that 15
the Ascendant is
The Moon's place added,......... 7 18
By looking at the example in the} . 4
7
Their Sum,... 14 33
The Sun’s place subtracted, .... .. 3 15
Place of the Part of Fortune, ll 18
104
which signiﬁes that the Part. of Fortune
is posited in the eighteenth degree of Pisces.
YVhen subtraction cannot be made, 12 signs
must be added.
We now proceed to giVe instructions for
erecting a ﬁgure by the tables; which would
probably be best understood by an example :
for instance; the day of the month and time
of the day being precisely stated, which we
will suppose in this case to be the 7th of July,
at three hours ﬁfteen minutes P. M-., that is,
a quarter past three-in the afternoon; we ﬁnd,
the place of the Sun for that day to be ﬁfteen
degrees Cancer: the minutes, when less than _
I thirty, may be rejected without any material
error; and when more than thirty, may have
as many minutes added as will make up a
degree. Now enter the table of Houses sub
joined; and in the part headed “ Q in ﬁ,"
look for the column that has the sign Q at the
top, which is the second; run down this
column until you come to the ﬁgure 15, that
is the degree the Sun is in for'the day given,
:/ n 6"
¢ I .
<' ' '
s"
105 -v; ,- ‘7‘5'
and immediately to the left is 7 .. 5. headed
“ Time from Noon." This seven hours ﬁve
minutes must be added to the time of the day
given; unless that time be exactly noon, in
which case no addition is required, but the
numericals are to be placed in the ﬁgure, just
as they occur in the table; but the time
given in this case being three hours ﬁfteen
minutes after twelve o’clock, we must add this
time, reckoning from noon the preceding day,
to the said 7 hours 5 minutes, and, the sum
making above twenty-four hours when added
together, you must subtract twenty-four, and
the remainder will be the hours and minutes
to be sought for in the columns headed “ Time
from Noon," opposite which will be found the
degrees of each of the twelve signs, as then
posited upon the cusps of the Horoscope :—
‘ Hours. Min.
Time opposite 15 degrees 25 7 5
Time from Noon of preceding day 27 15
34 20
Subtrap, . . 24 O
10 2o
106
If after the addition the sum is less than
twenty-four, then take the amount, and enter
the table immediately; but in this case,
subtraction was also necessary, and the result
is, ten hours twenty minutes, for which search
in the columns under the title “ Time from
Noon,” and in a line with 10 .. 20, on the
right hand, will be found 3, and looking at
the top of that column we see 10 1131, signify
ing that m: 3°, must be placed on the cusp of
the Tenth House. In the adjoining column,
in a line with 3 1131 is found 5, and at the top
11¢, so that #52 must be placed on the
cusp of the Eleventh House. Following the
same rule, in the next column, it is found
that 228° will occupy the Twelfth House.
You now come to that column headed
Ascendant, with TYL marked underneath, and
in a line with the cusps of the other Houses
already found, is 15 .. 29, consequently "1
15° .. 29’ is on the cusp of the Ascendant.
And the second and third Houses are ﬁlled up
in the same manner, by the help of the two
remaining columns.
107
Thus six Houses are furnished with their
proper signs and degrees; and according to
the rule laid down when treating of the mode
of setting the ﬁgure by a celestial globe, the
six remaining Houses are instantly ﬁlled up
with the opposite signs,'each of which, as was
before said, have the same number of degrees
as the sign to which they are opposite.
The ﬁgure is now set, and the planets, &c.
must each be entered in their proper places, as
was previously taught, and by occasionally
referring to the frontispiece, and after a few
trials, we hope that the young student, will
be soon able to enter upon the momentous task
of delivering judgment.
108
TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude Qfél Degrees 32 Minutes.
@mv 9mg
Tf;$,§10'11|12 41:511- 2 31};‘,f‘,;101112l Awn- 2 3
moor-Tits n J SLmszmzsnga 5L mm
HIDI‘T'O o o I c o HIMIT o o o 1 o o
0 0 0I 92226 28
0 4 lilu all 29
0 7 21112428 2
0 11 31212528 1
0 15 4182529 2
0 18 51426 051 1 2
0 221 61527 0 8
0 26 71628 1 4
0 29 817.29 2 5
0:13 91825 2 6
0 3710191 1 3 7
0 401120! 1 3 8
0 44 12221, 2 4 9
0 481323’ 3 5 10
0 511424 4 5 11
0 5515.25 5 v6 1
0 501626 6 7 12
1 31727 6 7 1:1
1 618,28 7 8 14
1 101920 8 9 15
1 142011 9 9 16
1 1821 11010 0 17
1 2122 21011 1 2218
12523 31111 2 2219
1 2.024 41212 :1 2320
1 3325 518-13 3 24121
1 3626 61413 4 2925122
1 41-27 71414 5 122628
1 4428 71515 5 2724
1 4829 81615 6 311127 25
1 5230 91716 7 221-2825
109
, TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 llIinutes.
@inn l @inQB
{ﬁne 10!11!12 Ascen- 2'3 {111131011 12 Ascen. 2 3
NoonH|05iSL "12 r112._1~100n%51,n12 * Am
“H‘LITITio— 5 1 Tlolﬂuu. o o o o 1 o 9
3510911722 0660 02424
355 1 9'12 9 6‘ 17 7 0 472525
4 0 210,12 9 50 2 s 9 1 332626
4 4 311013 9 34 s 9 9 2 192727
4 9 411|1410 19 41010 9 5272s
4 12 511211511 3 51110 9 512929
416 6113i1611 47 61211 4 27291
42171141712 31 71512 5 231111
425 9[15[1713 16 91419 6 9 1 2
429 9i161814 1 915146 552:1
4331017l1914 46 101615 7 40 2 4
4 39111I18‘2015 31 111616, 9 26 s 4
4 42112193116 16 121716 9 12 4 5
44612202117 1 13191719 57 5 6
45114212217 46 14191910 41 6 7
45515222519 31 152019}11 29 7 8
4 5916232419 17 16212012 14 s 9
5 317212520 4 172221112 59 810
5 919252620 49 e‘=“"1a 45 911
51219252721 35 19242214 301012
51620262922 20 202521315 141113
52121272923 6 212624115 591214
52522282923 51 2272516 441315
5292329111124 37 25292617 291316
5 342451, 125 25 24 92719 141417
53925 1 226 920,1 25n312818 591518
5 4326 2 326 5520207 26 129,19 4216 19
5 4727 a 427 4121217 27 229,20 2617 20
5 51,29 4 429 27'222 129 3221 1019 20
5 5629 5 529. 13129239 529 4 1,21 5419 '21
6 030 6, 630 024,249 930 5. 222 39195
1 10
TABLE or HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes.
{
@1551 @1an
Egg“ 101112 new 213 1,231,“; 101112 Mom 2 3
Noon Slui- m1 Noon fulﬁl-é m
H.M. a O O O I Dacia-M‘ O O I O O
9 9 0 5 222 39192210 9 0 22613 3013120
913 1 5 323 2220231012 1 32614 91421
917 2 6 324 521241016 2 42714 491522
9213 7 424 4922251020 3 52915 291623
925 4 9 525 3223261024 4 52916 916221
829 5 9 626 1623271028 5 6‘29“; 4817
934 610 726 59242910316 711117 291926
939 711927 4225291035 7 9119 91927
942 912 929 2326le039 9 9 219 4920-29
946 913 929 627 11042 910 219 292029
95010141020 4927 104610113 0 821::
954111511 01113029 10501111 420 4922 1
9591216121 1329 10541212 4 1 2623 2
9 2131712 1 552 10571313 522 524 3
9 6141913 2 36 1 11 114114 622 45124 4
91015191 3 19 2 11 51515 723 2425 5
914161913 4 0 2 11 91616 724 426 6
919172016 4 41 3 11121717 924 4327 9
922192116 5 21 4 11161917 925 2329 9
926192217 6 4 51 1120l19 181026 12910
9302 2319 6 45 511112320191026 4117911
934212419 7 26 612112721201127 221012
939222519 9 6 7131131'22211229 1} 113
941252620 9 47 9,14113423221329 401214
945242721 9 29 9'1'113929231329 20‘ 315
94925292210 81916114225231429 59 416
95326292310 4910171145262415 0139 517
95721292311 29111 1149272515 1 19‘519
10 129¢2412 9121911531292616 2 9 619
10 529 12512 5012201156292617 2 39 7‘20
10 930 22613 30132 12 0302717 3 10 921
ll 1
TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes.
[— @1111- 9mm J
{51" 1011124116811 1112 48m. 2 3
Noon 24km 1‘ CS‘X
H.M. O D O O I O l O ‘0
12 0 02717 3 1 25 151027
12 412818 359 26 51128
12 7 2919 449 26 5012011
1211 3111120 520 27 4714 1
1215 12062 28 39152
1218 5121643 29 3116 4
1222 6 222 724 0 18 5
1226732385 118196
1229 8 423 846 2 13|20 8
1233 9 524 928 3 10:22 9
12371 6251010 4 62310
1240116251052 5 32511
12441 7261135 6 12613
124813 8271218 7 02814
125114 91281259 8 02915
12551510281343 9 2194 17
12591 11291426 10 5 318
13 3171111510 11 9419
13 61812 11554 12 14 621
13101 13 11639 13 21 822
13142014 21723 14 29 923
13182115 318 8 15 371124
1321- 16 41851 16 461326
13252316 41939 17 581127
13 2 17 52026 19 111623
13332 18 62114 20 271729
13362619 722 1 21 43193
134027 0 72249 23 321 2
13442821 82337 21 2422 3
134829 I 92426 i25 4624 5
13523022102515 27 1026 6
112
TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minules.
Qinl‘. Q in v5.
lohiuz
11177
Ascen. 10
15’
11 r Asa-nag 3
E ‘Y’ 18 n
O
Noon
11 M. ° ° °
1 0d816
19917
220.9
3h119
42210
59311
62912
@2513
826,14
92716
102917
1129MB
13 1&20
14 221
15
16
1655
1659
17 417
17 919
1711n9
171620
172021
17302591
17342412
17392513
17 43 26 14
17472715
1751281610
1756291711
Q§70§01813
3
4
5
7
8
12Vﬂ19
17252210 1
30
w
i
{gg
"XN
v-In-Ir-db-n—
mam—ovewenl
010C!»
H‘DNU‘NH
O 01711
3ﬂ19h3
1920h4
552215
292311
22217
372619
72919
20
21
0
2
5
9
20:16’1020 529
01711 0 930
22
23
43
42
40
31
20.
7
52
33
13
49
131818
141920
152121
162323
182525
192726
202828 22
21'Y>29 53
23 2 1112372311
'OQQGUIAWIQh-Iéi
MM
1-1
0
;_
24 4 2 502412
113
TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes.
Q in 332‘ Q in )6.
Time Ascen. ' Time! ‘ Ascen
f 101112 2 3 fm 10,1112 2 3
99.12.9971 H u ‘ZBNodii.le 3 ‘15 as $1,
H~M‘T¢T?lo I o o“_M‘1o|o 070 o
20 9 021 4‘ 2 50g241222 8‘ 0, 320 445,20 8
2013 125 6i 4 14251 2212‘ 1i 421 53521 8
2017 227 7‘ 5 3726132216 2[ 623 623.22 9
2021328 9'16 58271422203f724 7122310
2025 429111 8 17128152224| 4‘ 825 8 02311
2029 5X13 9 3329162227, 5 926 8482412
2034 6 211410 4925172231: 610 28 9352513
2038 7 316,12 3 1182235 71229102226 14
2042 8 418113 14 21 2239 813K 11 7‘26 14
2046 9 619,14 24' 3202242 914 1115212715
2050 10 72115 32‘ 19212246 1015 2123712816
205411. 82316 401 42122501117 3132212917
205812 92417 46l 52222541218 414 72918
21 213112618 51 (1:15:571319 51452'SL19 '
21 614122819 56, 72423 1114:20 61535 1191
211015132920 58] 8‘25 23 5115,21 71617 220
211416158 22 0; 926 3 91623 817 1 221
2118 1716, 2 23 0110,272312l17124 91744 322
21221817 4 23 5910‘2823161825101826l 4 23
21261919 524 581128232019261119 9' 524
21302020 725 55122923232027121952 524
2134 2122 8‘26 5113 51,2327212913 2032 6 25
213822231027 4714 1233122'8 14 2114 726
214123241128 41,15 >3423‘ 1152156 727
214524 2513 29 36‘15 2338 24l 216 2237 8 28
21492526141 0252916 4234225! 317 2318 9 8
2153262815 1 2217 4234526l4182359 929
21572729 16 2 1418 5234927‘ 519243910012
22128‘Y’18 3 419 62353281620252111 1
22 520 219 3 5619;72356291821'26 212 2
22 830 3201 4 452078124 030' 922-264212‘3J
3x
THE
97167 9322019915; 99012911 autetinua.
In commencing this serious and important
department of the work, we will in the ﬁrst
place, direct the student’s attention to a
few introductory and general remarks, which
apply to all cases, and afterwards, proceeding
in systematic order, disclose the rules by
which he will be able to resolve any Questions,
relative either to things past, present, or to
come; the answers to which are either the
essential or accidental. The Essential Answer
is always one of the three following, concern
ing which the inquiry is made; ﬁrst, To be,
or not to be ?—-Second, Either good or evil P
and third, Whether true or false ? The Acci
dental Answer is that which appertains to the
accidents of the business in hand, and is
always deﬁned by—Where? When P How?
115
or \Vhy P and whoever attempts to extend his
judgment further, strains art beyond its
limits.
Now, as the student may have previously
observed, (when we were treating of the oper
ation of the Twelve Houses) the consideration
of the matter inquired of is taken from that
house which has relation to and signiﬁes the
same; and this signiﬁcation is divided into
simple and compound. The simple signiﬁca
tion of the Houses is that which relates only
to the person of the querent or inquirer.
Compound signification is that which has
relation to the matter, the quesited, or in
other words, the thing inquired of. For
instance; the simple signiﬁcation of the First
House is the Querent’s life and person;
the Second House, his substance; the Third
House, his kindred, &c. &c. The Compound
signiﬁcation is derived from the simple, by
considering what house signiﬁes the matter,
and accounting that, be it whatsoever it may,
the First House or Ascendant; it rising at the
time the Figure is set, on the part of the
116
Heavens signifying the thing inquired of;
and so ascribing the signiﬁcation of the First
House of the Figure to it; doing in like man
ner to all the other Houses in order: thus,
for example, if a question relate to a brother
or relation, the Third House is then his
ascendant or ﬁrst, and shews his life and per
son; the Fourth House (in this case the
second,) his substance or estate; the Fifth
House, (his third) his relations, 8:0.
As to the proper time for erecting the
Figure, much has been said, and many
opinions given. The true time however is
that moment when the Question is asked ; or
if the inquirer casts his own Figure, it should
be the moment when he determined on doing
it, whether he did it at that time or not;
because it might not be then done for want of
opportunity.
If, however, a letter be received desiring
the solution of a Question, the most advisable
time for erecting the Figure seems to be the
precise moment when, on reading the letter,
117
you come to the Question proposed: unless
the qucrent is aware of the necessity of
stating a time, and consequently does so in
the letter.
These things being laid as a foundation,
we come now in the ﬁrst place to a rule, which
must always be attended to before undertaking
to deliver any answer, and that is—
Whether the Question is Radical, or ﬁt to
be Judged.
If you ﬁnd the Lord of the House signify
ing the quesited, and the Lord of the Ascend
ant, of one and the same Triplicity; or if the
sign and planet ascending describe the person
of the Querent, then you may safely give
judgment; otherwise the question is proposed
through ridicule, there being no truth in it,
or no possibility of its coming.)r to pass.
If either the very beginning or extreme
end of a sign ascend, (unless the Figure be
carefully erected by a large Celestial Globe,)
or if the moon be [1 or 8 with the Lord of the
118
Seventh, or if ))be void of course or combust
then, though the question may not be proposed
through ridicule, yet it would be as well to
decline answering.
I; in the ascendaut, impedited or aﬂiicted ;
and whenever the Lord of the ascendant is
combust or retrograde, shews the same, or
that the subject is past hope. But the student
must always compare testimonials for and
against, and judge according to the greater
number.
_____,,14__
Rules for Solving General Questions.
QUERY 1. Is the subject qf inquiry to be,
or not to be .P
The completion or perfection of the subject
of inquiry may be affected several ways, viz.
by application, translation, reception, and '
position.
The Ascendant, his Lord, and the Moon,
always signify the querent; and that house,
119
and his Lord to which the question belongs,
the quesited; consider what application is
between the signiﬁcators; and if they apply
to d in angles, swift in motion in any of
their dignities, it shews the matter inquired of
will be brought to perfection speedily; if in
succeedent houses, not .so soon; if in cadent
houses, with much loss oftime.
\Vhen the signiﬁcators apply by -)(- orA
from good houses, and they in any of their
dignities, free from evil rays of 131, b , or J ,
it is an argument the matter will soon be
completed.
If the signiﬁcators apply by U in good
houses and essential dignities, the thing
inquired after will be perfected, although not
so easily nor so successfully.
Sometimes things are brought to perfection
when the signiﬁcators are in 8 , but this
happens when such signiﬁcators are in mutual
reception by houses; but if it is perfected, it
is with much trouble, and the querent will be
sorry he sought after it.
120
Matters, are also brought to perfection by
translation of light and virtue; and you may
judge the perfection will be effected, by such
a person as the planet signiﬁes, which thus
translates the light and virtue of one signiﬁ
cator to the other.
And further, the subject may be brought
.to perfection by position; that is, when the
signiﬁcator of the thing is posited in'the
Ascendant, or if the Lord of the Ascendant
be posited in the house of the quesited; but
this single testimony seldom perfects the busi
ness, without some of the aforesaid arguments
happen, or the two signiﬁcators cast their
several aspects to some more weighty planet
than themselves, with whom they are both in
reception, and then the person signiﬁed by
that planet who collects both their lights may
bring it to perfection.
QUERY 2. What shall be the destruction or
hindrance of a matter inquired after P
The thing inquired after is destroyed by
prohibition, frustration, refranation, aspect.
121
separation, translation, and combustion, any
of which are sufﬁcient to destroy, more espe
cially if some or all of these happen to be in
ﬁxed signs, and in a cadent or succeedent
house.
For instance, when you ﬁnd the signiﬁ
cators applying to d or other aspect, and
before they attain it, some other planet comes
to the d or other aspect of one of the signiﬁ
cators, and that planet hinders the thing from
being brought to perfection; consider the
nature of that planet; also what house he is
Lord' of, and from thence you may know what
kind of person will be the hindrance.
Also, if it be the Lord of the third, it
shows some neighbour, brother, &c.; if it be
the Lord of the fourth, the querent's father, &c.
will be the hindrance, and described by the
impeding planet.
When the signiﬁcators apply by body or
aspect, and before they come to it one of these
signiﬁcators falls retrograde, and so prevents
1.
122
the completion of the thing inquired after if
the Lord of the Ascendant falls retrograde, the
querent will seldom proceed further in the
business.
Separation, though never so little, denotes
the full and entire destruction of the matter
inquired of, which we seldom or ever ﬁnd to
fail; and Combustion is an equal, if not greater
afﬂiction.
QUERY 3. Is the matter good or e'vil 1’
Consider the house to which the thing or
quesited belongs, its Lord, and the planet
therein; also consider the house signifying
the matter of the end, its Lord, and planet or
planets therein; and if the house signifying
the thing be fortiﬁed by the presence or beams
of good planets, or if 53 be there located, it
shews good ; but the contrary indicates evil.
QUERY 4. Is the report true or false 1’
If any planet be in the house signifying
the matter concerning which the report is,
or 53 be there, or the Lord of such house he
123
angular, or in conjunction or aspect of any
planet, then the matter or report is true; but
if the report was good, and the said signiﬁcator
or planet posited in the said house be either
retrograde, slow of course, combust, peregrine,
or cadent, in evil aspect of 0. more weighty
planet, or in d with 23, or if 28 be posited in
the said house, any of these signiﬁes the report
is false.
The Moon angular generally signiﬁes the
report to be true, if the report be evil,
especially if she be in evil aspect; or good,
if she be in good aspect with It. or 2 .
The Moon in a ﬁxed sign, and in conjunc
tion with 53, sheweth truth; but moveable,
void of course, and in conjunction with 29,
sheweth falsehood.
Qunav 5. Where, or which way, and how
far of P
Wherever the signiﬁcator is, there is the
thing. The house where he is posited sheweth
the quarter of heaven, or point of the compass,
L 2
124
which way the thing (whatsoever it may be) is.
If both the house and sign agree, this judg
ment is more ﬁrm ; if they disagree, consider
the position of the Moon, and with what she
most agrees, give judgment accordingly. If
the Moon agrees neither with the sign or
house in which the signiﬁcator is located, then
consider the Part of Fortune in the same
manner as you considered the Moon, and
judge accordingly.
The distance is discovered from the prox
imity of the signiﬁcators to body or aspect,
considered as they may be either angular,
succeedent, or cadent; respect being had to
their latitude, whether little or great, north or
south.
Great latitude shews obscurity, and great
difﬁculty in ﬁnding what is sought for; if it
be north latitude, diﬂiculty only, not impos
sibility; but if south, then all the labour of
seeking is in vain, unless the signiﬁcators be
angular, and near in aspect. Angles signify
125
nearness; Succeedent Houses, further elf;
Cadent Houses, beyond all imagination.
The signiﬁcator Angular, and without lati
tude, shews some paces; if north latitude, some
furlongs; if south, some miles distant.
The signiﬁcator Succeedent, and without
latitude, shews some furlongs, if it hath north
latitude, some miles; if south latitude, some
leagues.
The signiﬁcator Cadent, and without lati
tude, shews some miles; north latitude, some
leagues; south, some degrees.
These rules however are to be considered
chieﬂy with respect to things which have life.
Now, if it be required to know the true
number of paces, furlongs, miles, leagues, or
degrees distant, carefully consider the number
of degrees and minutes between the body or
aspect of the signiﬁcator ; and according to the
number of degrees which are between the J ,
*, E], A, or 8, so many paces, furlongs,
miles, leagues, or degrees, is the thing sought
L 3
126
after distant from the place from whence it was
lost, or from the person making inquiry, &c.;
and so many minutes as adhere to the degrees,
so many sixtieth parts of the same denomina
tion of the measure which one degree signiﬁeth
is to be accounted and added to the former
number.
QUERY 6. When or in what time P
The limitation of time is taken either by
house and sign, or by aspect. If the signiﬁ
cator hath latitude, the measure of time hath
its limitation from house and sign. If whether
things are to be brought to pass or destroyed,
the time be signiﬁed by house and sign, such
time must be calculated as the signiﬁcator is
angular, succeedent, or cadent—having move
able, ﬁxed, or common signs. Angles signify
suddenly ; succeedent houses, a long time, and
with much dilﬁculty ; cadent houses, scarcely
at all, or with vexation. Again, angles shew,
ifithey are possessed of moveable signs, some
days; if common signs, some weeks; and if
ﬁxed signs, some months. @ucceedent houses,
127
if possessed of moveable signs, shew some
weeks; if common signs, some months; and
if ﬁxed signs, some years. Cadent houses
having moveable signs some months, common
signs years, and ﬁxed signs when all hopes
are past, if at all.
Now, most inquisitive inquirer, if thou
wouldst dive “ Deeper, and deeper still," into
the bespangled and glittering roll of Fate,
searching to ascertain the number of days,
weeks, months, or years, consider the degrees
and minutes between the body or aspect of the
signiﬁcator; and according to the number of
degrees which are between their (5 , *, D, A, I
or 8, even so many days, weeks, months, or
years, shall it be before the matter inquired of
is accomplished or destroyed. Great south
latitude often prolongs the time; great north
latitude often cuts it shorter; therefore if the
.signiﬁcators have no latitude, the exact time is
made simply by the aspects. ‘
Some however reject and take no notice
of the latitudes in either ,this case or any
other.
128
As a summary of the foregoing rule, and
in order to make it as plain as possible to
our readers, we will suppose, by the accom
panying table, that 3; ‘is in the fourteenth
degree of 1p, in application to a A of 131, who
is ﬂngular in the Fifth House and sixteenth
degree of Q ; their distance (i. e. the inter_
eepted are) between the Partile and Platick
aspect being 2°, denotes that two days would
elapse, before the event promised by the appli
cation would take place: had the very same
aspect fallen in the Ninth House, the time
would have then been two months.
arable
For the Measure of Time above referred to.
Angles . Succeedents . Cadents.
Moveable Signs. Moveable Signs. Moveable Signs.
W’*@WY@*W‘P@*W
Days. Weeks. IlIonths.
Common Signs. Common Signs. Common Signs.
HTmIXntmIXnmzix
Weeks. Months. Years.
Fixed Signs. Fixed Signs. Fixed Signs.
8 81. "L 4"" 3 81. "l M"? 8 51. T". :5“
Months. Years. Unknown.
129
QUERY 7. How, by what means, or why 1’
The planets which cause the frustration,
are those that signify him, her, or the thing,
which shall hinder the business inquired of;
which we have before explained : but observe,
that whatsoever has been said of the hindering
planet, or the person signiﬁed by it, the same
holds good of the helping or adjuvant planet.
CURIOUS AND ASTONISHXNG RULES FOR
DISCOVERING THE
faults on any iﬂemnu’s stung.
' This is a most remarkable fact, that moles
or marks are all discovered by the signs and
planets which prevail at the time of birth ; and
though a nativity is the safer and more sure
ﬁgure to judge upon, yet we have generally
found this rule wonderfully accurate, even in
an Horary Figure.
Note, that as the following rules will hold
good upon the body of the querent, so will they
agree upon the body of the quesited. Suppose
a person inquires concerning a wife or sweet
heart, the Seventh house will be her First
House, and so judge by variation.
RULE. Observe what sign is upon the Cusp
of the Ascendant when you have erected your
131
Figure, and in that part of the body the sign
governs, the querent will have a mole. For
instance, if q“ ascend, the mole will be on the
head or face, if 3 , on the neck or throat, &c.,
and so upon any other part of the body the
sign ascending governs, which will immediately
be ascertained by referring to that department
of the work which treats of them.
Observe next in which of the Twelve
Houses the Lord of the Ascendant is posited,
and in that part of the body the sign governs
which falls upon the cusp of that house, will
the querent have another mole.
Again, observe the sign descending on the
cusp of- the Sixth House, and in whatsoever
part of the body that sign governs, the querent
will ﬁnd another mole. '
Also, look for the situation of the Lord
of the Sixth House, and accordingly in the
part of the body signiﬁed by the sign in which
the 10rd of the sixth is, there will be another
mole.
132
In whatever sign the querent ﬁnds the
Moon, will also be another mole.
The colour ofeach mole may be also easily
discovered by the planet signifying it; thus if
Saturn be signiﬁcator of the mole, it is black
or dark in colour; if Mars, and he be in a ﬁery
sign, it will rather resemble a cut, scar, or
wound in the ﬂesh, than a mole, but if Mars
be in any other sign, then it is ared mole. If
Jupiter signify, the mole is of a purple or blue
colour: if Sol, it will be found of an olive or
chesnut: if Venus, yellow; if Mercury, a pale
leaden colour ; if Luna, of a whitish colour;
but here you are to mix her signiﬁcation
according to the planet with which she is in
aspect. The planet which gives the mole being
much impedited or afﬂicted, shews the mark
or mole will then be large and more visible.
The signiﬁcator masculine, or in a mascu
line sign, indicates the mark or mole to be on
the right side of the body; if feminine, on the
left.
133
If the signiﬁcator of the mole be above the
horizon, the mole, 8w. is visible to the eye, and
on the fore part of the limb or body; but if
under the earth, then on the back of the body.
If only a few degrees of the sign ascend
upon the horoscope, or descend on the Sixth,
or if the Lord of the Ascendant, the Lord of the
Sixth, or the Moon be posited in the beginning
of any sign, the said mole or mark will be
found upon the upper part of the member
those signs govern. If half the degrees of a
sign ascend, or the signiﬁcators are posited in
the middle of any sign, the mole or mark will
then be in the middle of the member; but if
the last degree of a sign ascend, or the signiﬁ
cators are in the latter degrees of a sign, the
said mark or mole will then be situated on the
lower part of the member such sign governs.
The preceding rules we have also found
infallible in discovering whether the question
he radical or the contrary; for if you ﬁnd not
the moles, in the places indicated by the signi
ﬁcators thereof, you must then ﬁrmly decline
deliveringjudgment be it onwhat subject it may.‘
‘ M
184
We shall now direct how to give judgment
on particular and stated questions, belonging
to each of the Twelve Houses.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
first mouse.
The First House has signiﬁcation of the
life, stature, health, &c. of every person, and
therefore the following, among a number of
other questions of a similar nature belonging
to this house, may serve as rules, which, if well
understood, will give the young astrologian
sufﬁcient light, whereby to judge of any other
question proper to this house : and as it would
be imp0ssible to give rules for solving every
question that may be stated, we .shall conﬁne
ourselves through the whole of this part of the
work to a few of the most important questions
that may arise, and are answerable by directing
the attention to that house to which they respec
tively belong, And these rules, being varied
according to the circumstances of the case, will
be found applicable to any other question that
can possibly arise or be proposed.
135
1. 0f the length of the Querent’s Life.
In resolving this question, and in all
others, the Cusp of the Ascendant, his Lord,
and the Moon, are always the querent's
signiﬁcators.
If in a question seriously propounded you
ﬁnd the Lord of the Ascendant and D free
from combustion, and from d, :1, or 8, of
Lord of the eighth, sixth, twelfth, or fourth
houses, you may judge the querent’s life will
be long, and that he has a healthy constitu
tion; especially if you ﬁnd the aforesaid
signiﬁcators in their essential dignities, and in
good houses. \Lz.
2L, 9 , or $3, in the aseendant, well forti
ﬁed, and lords of good houses, is also an
argument of long life.
The Lord of the Ascendant in the ascendant
or fortunate planets, particular 7.]. or Q , in
-x- or A to the ascendant, his Lord, or D , is
also another argument that your querent will
have a long life.
M 2
136
But if you ﬁnd I) , or Lord of the Ascend
ant, peregrine or combust in the eighth house,
or the Lord of the eighth unfortunate in the
Ascendant, or in E] or 8 to 1), or Lord of
the Ascendant, it is a strong indication of a
short life to the querent.
And if you ﬁnd 23, b, or 3‘, in the
'ascendant, or with D, or the Lord of the
ascendant, peregrine or retrograde, and they
or any of them be Lord of the sixth or eighth
houses, or having dignities therein, you may
judge the querent’s life will be short, or that
some grievous sickness or misfortune is ap
proaching; but for some further information
on this head, refer to our judgment on the
eighth house, passim.
3. Is an Absent Person dead or still
living 1’
In resolving this question, be careful to
consider what relation the querent bath to the
person inquired of. If it be a brother, the
Third House and its Lord; and if the party
137
inquired after be no relation, take the ascend_
ant, his lord, and )), to be signiﬁcator of the
person absent.
If the Lord of the Ascendant or D, be in
d with the Lord of the Eighth House, and
no good conﬁgurations of the benevolent
planets intervene, then the absent person is
certainly dead.
Or when D and the Lord of the Ascendant
are in 8 to the Lord of the Eighth, from the
second or eighth, or from the sixth or twelfth
Houses, the absent person is dead.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the
Fourth House, and D in the seventh, in E]
to him, it sheweth great danger, if not absolute
death.
When an evil planet shall translate the
light of the Lord of the Eighth House unto
the Lord of the Ascendant, or of the Lord of
the Ascendant to the Lord of the Eighth, it is
most probable the absent person is dead.
M3
138
And if you ﬁnd the Lord of the Ascendant
and ) combust in the Fourth or Eighth House,
or joined with the Lord of the Eighth, then the
quesited is undoubtedly deceased.
If none of these positions happen, and
you ﬁnd all the signiﬁcators strong and well
placed in the ﬁgure, and in good aspect with
2,! and 2 , then the person inquired of is alive
, and well.
If the Lord of the Ascendant, or D,
separate from the Lord of the Sixth House,
the person absent hath been sick; if from the
Lord of the Eighth, he has been in danger of
death; if from the Lord of the Twelfth, he has
been in prison, or suﬁ'ered muph in mind; and
thus by varying the rule, his condition, accord— '
ing. to the application and separation of the
signiﬁcators, will be correctly and wonderfully
found.
3. To what Part of the World shall the
Querent direct his course, to prosper .P
Herein you must be particular in inquiry,
before proceeding to erect the Figure, what
139
the querent hopes to attain by his travel;
for by such information only will you know '
where to direct your particular attention in the
Figure.
Then, if the journey be for Health only;
observe the Lord-of the Ascendant and D; if
they be strong, and in good aspect of the
benign planets, they direct the querent’s
course to that part of the world where the
aforesaid signiﬁcators are; that is, if they be
in the First House, then travel Eastward; if
in the Second, North-East by East; and so
on, as will fully appear by the table at the end
of our description of the Houses.
If for Riches, behold in what quarter you
. ﬁnd the Lord of the Second House, and G).
If for Honour, observe in what quarter
the Lord of the Tenth House and Q are.
If for Friends, Consider the Lord of the
Eleventh, 8:0.
But, 0! let the querent carefully eschew
that quarter in the Horoscope where are 5,
140
3‘ , or 23, particularly if they be the Lords of
the Twelfth, Eighth, or Sixth Mansions, and
inlj or 3 to D, or the Lord of the
Ascendant.
4. Shall the Quere-nt ﬁnd the person at
home with whom he desires to speak 5’
This rule is of great importance, particu
larly to tradesmen and the like. It is unerring
as far as we have observed, having never yet
found it to fail. The judgment is as follows :
If you would speak with a person with
whom you have familiar or constant dealing,
but are not related to, take the Seventh House,
and its Lord, to signify him; that is, the
Seventh from the Ascendant. If the Lord of
the Seventh House be in any of the four
Angles, namely, the ﬁrst, seventh, fourth, or
tenth houses, the person with whom you would
speak is then certainly at home.
If the Lord of the Seventh be in any of
Succeedent Houses, viz. in the second, ﬁfth,
eighth, or eleventh, he is not then at home,
141
but very near home, and may be found, if .
sought after.
But if the Lord of the Seventh be in any
Cadent House, viz., third, sixth, ninth, or
twelfth, the party is not at home, but far
distant therefrom, and consequently not to be
spoken with.
If the Lord of the Ascendant apply to the
Lord of Seventh by d, or good aspect, you
may then conclude you will meet with the
person, or hear where he is, by the way.
The Moon or any other planet, transferring
the light of the Lord of the Seventh House to
the Lord of the Ascendant, you shall know
where the person is with whom you would speak,
by such an one as that planet represents who
transfers his light, according to the sign and
quarter in which he is posited, whether mascu
line or feminine, or whether man or woman,
will inform you ; and judge by the greater and
greater number of testimonies.
142
The person inquired after being a relation
alters the case; the Lord of the Seventh is not
then to be taken, but the Lord of that house
signifying such relation. If it be a Brother,
the Lord of the Third House must be referred
to; if a Father, take the Lord of the Fourth;
a Mother, the Tenth; if Son or Daughters,
observe the Lord of the Fifth, and so on, and
according to their positions, judge, as before
shown forth.
5. Ofa ship at sea, her Saﬁzly or De
slruction.
Before entering on this Question it is
necessary to observe, that the various parts of
the ship, have, by the ancient professors, been
placed under the signiﬁcation 0f the Twelve
Signs of the Zodiac, in the following manner :
<7, The Breast of the ship.
3 Under the Breast towards the water.
I! The Rudder or Stern.
25 The Bottom or Floor of the ship.
51, The Top of the ship above the water.
ml The Belly of the ship.
143
A That part above the Breast in the water.
111, Where the Mariners abide.
1‘ The Mariners.
V9 The End of the ship,
a.“ The Captain or Master.
)6 The Oars.
The Ascendant and )) are signiﬁcators of
the vessel and her burthen generally; but the
Lord of the Ascendant is signiﬁcator of the
persons that sail in her. ‘When all these
appear fortunate, they signify that the ship is
safe and in prosperity; on the contrary, if they
are found impedited or afﬂicted, the vessel
and all in her are in imminent danger, if not
lost.
If an evil planet, having dignitics in the
Eighth House, shall be in the Ascendant, or
the Lord of the Ascendant in the eighth,
in evil aspect with the Lord of the eighth,
twelfth, sixth, or fourth, or if the Moon be
combust under the earth, all these are indica
tive of danger, and denote the ship to be lost,
or in a very desperate situation. But when
144
all the signiﬁcators are free, and in no way
impedited, then conclude that the ship and
all on board are in a good and prosperous
condition.
If you ﬁnd the Ascendant and the Moon
unfortunate in the ﬁgure, but the Lord of the
Ascendant strong and in a good house, it
denotes the ship itself to be in jeopardy, but
the men on board her will do well, and come
home in safety.
And on the contrary the Moon fortunate,
and the Lord of the Ascendant unfortunate,
shews the vessel will do well, or is in safety;
but that her crew are in danger of death by
some fever, or of being taken by the enemy.
As to the inquiry whether a voyage shall
prove prosperous, or not, the student must
direct his attention more particularly to the
ninth house, where he will ﬁnd the rules
necessary.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
Serena thﬁt.
1. Shall the Querent be Rich or Poor 1’
The party’s signiﬁcators are, as usual, the
ascendant, its Lord, and Luna; the second
house, its lord, and Q, together with the
planets posited in the second, and the planets
in aspect to the signiﬁcators, represent his
estates.
If you ﬁnd the lord of the second, and 9,
in angles, essentially strong, it is a good
argument of riches.
If the lord of the ascendant, or D , apply
to the lord of the second house either by d
or good aspect, from good houses in the ﬁgure,
this is another good argument ofriches.
The lord of the ascendant, or D, in the
second, in their essential dignities, in d , -x- , l
or A to It or 2; the Moon or any other
N
l 46
planet transferring the light of the lord of the
second to the lord of the ﬁrst or ascendant, the
querent shall attain riches, and live in esteem
beyond his capacity ofbirth.
2;, who naturally signiﬁeth riches, or 9 ,
or {3, free from the malevolent beams of lg ,
J or 1g, and posited in the second house,
sheweth the querent will be rich ; and if this
happen in lixed signs, so much the better, for
his riches will continue.
115, lg , 3‘ , or 23 , in the second, peregrine,
retrograde, or afﬂicting the lord of the second,
2;, 9 , or (B, either by body or aspect, is a
very strong argument of poverty.
2. How, 01' by what means shall he obtain
Riches P
Now, if by the foregoing rules you have
found that the querent shall obtain riches, you
may know from whence it will come by the
following—p
The Lord of the Second House in the
second, shews the querent will attain his
147
riches, or an estate, by merchandise, or his
own industry. ’ '
The Lord of the Second House in the ﬁrst,
' free from combustion or other afﬂiction, indi
cates that he shall have riches in a manner
unexpectedly.
The Lord of the Second House in the third,
well aspected, shews that his wealth- will be
derived from his neighbours or kindred, or
by inland journies.
The Lord of the Second House in the
fourth, fortunately placed .in good aspect of
the lord of the fourth, and not afflicted as
aforesaid, the querent shall attain riches by
his father. And thus in like mannerofthe rest
of the houses.
The student, however, must be careful in
observing to answer this query, if possible, by
the same ﬁgure with which he answered the
ﬁrst question, that is, whether the querent
would be rich or poor ?
n2
148
3. Shall the Querent obtain the money lent, -
or due for goods sold and delivered P
The ascendant, his lord, and D , as before,
signify the inquirer. If it be a friend, or a
person with whom you are conversant, though
not related to, take the seventh house and its
lord to signify the quesited person, and his
ascendant. Therefore the eighth (the second
from the seventh) shall signify his estate,
money, and the like.
This rule of varying the ascendant of the
quesited, and consequently the signiﬁcation of
all the other houses, must be particularly
observed in every question, else the young
student will bring both himself and the science
into great danger of ridicule, by delivering
false judgment.
The Lord of the Ascendant, or D, in d ,
* or Awith the lord of the eighth, or with
a planet in the eighth essentially digniﬁed;
then the querent shall attain the goods or
money inquired of.
149
The Lord of the Eighth House in the
ascendant, or in the second, in reception with
the Lord of the Second, is a great argument
that he shall get his money or goods; and if
the aforesaid signiﬁcators applying by U or
8 , with reception, it denotes the same, but not
with much ease.
If the Lord of the Seventh or Eighth
House shall be posited in the ﬁrst or second,
and not be received by the Lord of the Ascend—
ant, or D, or Lord of the Second; it shews
the querent will not only go without his desire,
but, if he pursues the business, he will sustain
much loss and detriment.
4. Will a. Ticket in a Raﬂle or other Lottery
prove a Blank or a Prize P
This question being of the same tendency
as those respecting cards, dice, &c., one would
have thought was most properly solved, by
directing the attention to the ﬁfth house and
the conﬁgurations thereto, but seeing that
authors have preferred the second, to that we
N 3
150
niust have regard, where, if$fa11 well aspected,
and at the same time the lord thereof be in
a good house, and also well aspected, there is
little doubt of the querent’s good fortune,
especially if his signiﬁcators (the ascendant,
its lord or lady and D) are also well digni
ﬁed and aspeeted.
The Part of Fortune in Medium Cwli, or
many planets in angles, is also a favourable
prognostic, and if the Moon be at the same
time free from affliction, and in good aspect to
the Sun, it makes the probability still stronger.
If the Lord or Lady of the First, or Second,
63, and D be in afﬂiction either by house,
sign, or aspect, then the reverse is indicated,
and you may safely venture to foretell of the
ticket being drawn a blank.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
with ﬁance.
1. Shall the Querent, his Brother, 50.
agree?
The Moon, the ascendant, and its lord, are
the signiﬁcators of the querent; the third
house and its lord of the quesited.
The question is thus solved :—If the Lord
of the Third House be a benevolent planet, and
v in the ascendant, or D be in d, *, or A
with a fortunate planet in the third; the
querent, and his brothers, &c. will agree well.
When the Lord,.0f the Ascendant, and the
Lord of the Third Mansion of Heaven are in
* or A to each other, and in mutual reception,
or the Lord of the Third beholds with a * or
A the cusp of the ascendant, and the Lord of
the Ascendant or D beholds with the same >
aspect the cusp of the third mansion; then \it
argueth great unity, love, and concord between
the parties inquired of. i
152
\Vhen a. good planet is in the ascendaut,
and the Lord of the First casteth abenign aspect
to the cusp of the third, or applieth in a friendly
manner to the Lord of the Third; it argueth
a good disposition in the querent, and sheweth
that he is desirous of harmony and friendship;
and if a fortune (that is 74 or 9) be in the
third, and the Lord of the Third apply har
moniously to the Lord of the First, the brothers,
&c. are most indulging.
Those persons whose signiﬁcat-ors do not
apply, are most imperious, and apt to disagree ;
and those persons whose signiﬁcators make
application, are ﬂexible, being willing and
desirous of peace and concord.
When Iii, l; , 3‘ , or 29, in such a question,
shall be found located in the eastern angle, it
denotes the inquirer to be obstinate, and averse
to a friendly agreement; but if any of them
be located in the 'third hoiise, the brothers,
&c., are of the malicious disposition ; and if it
so appear that lg, 11; , or 3‘ be peregrine,
retrograde, or combust, the malice or mischief
they threaten will be the more baneful.
153
\Vhen 1g is in the third, the relations are
deep designing, and mysterious. When I; or
29 are in the third the neighbours are clownish
and obstinate ; the kindred covetous and spar
ing. When 3‘ is in the third, the neighbours
are dishonest, and the kindred treacherous;
and this is positive if they are out of their
dignities.
2. Is the Advice of a. Friend good or
evil 1’
Now, ifyou desire to know, when in distress
of mind or other dilemma you have applied to
a friend for advice, whether such advice is to
your beneﬁt or he be deceitful, erect your
ﬁgure to the moment of time he giveth you his
advice, and judge as follows.
The tenth house signiﬁeth the counsel,
therefore consider if that house is fortunate or
aﬂlicted.
If Q), It, 9 , or $3,be in the tenth house,
or if Luna apply by body or aspect to the Lord
of the First, the advice, counsel, or persuasion
\
154
is good ; or if either ofthe fortunes, so posited,
shall apply by * or A to the Lord of the
First or Ascendant, it denotes the same.
But if 131, b, 3‘, or 29, be peregrine or
retrograde in the tenth, then you may con
clude your pseudo-friend is a knave, full of
deceit, and only pretending to friendship.
The sign ascending being a moveable sign,
and the Lord of the First House and the Moon
located in moveable signs, justify you in pay
ing the same judgment.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
quurﬂ) Muse.
1. Shall the Querent hire or lake the House,
Farm, Land, or Place desired, or not; and
what is {he qaulity or goodness of it 1’
The ascendnnt, its lord, and the Moon,
are the querent’s, the seventh house and the
10rd thereof are the signiﬁcators 0f the person
who hath the letting of the house, farm, &c.
The tenth house and his Lord signify the
proﬁt 01' advantage arising from the querent’s
taking it. The Fourth House signiﬁes the
house, &c., itself inquired after.
If you ﬁnd the Lord of the “First in the
fourth, or the Lord of the Ascendant or the
Moon casting their * or A to the degree
ascending, or 69 free from the malevolent rays
of the Infortunes, it showeth plainly that the
querent will gain by his bargain, farm, house,
purchase, &c.
156
An Infortune, (I; or 3‘ , and I? will have
the same effect) or 28 in the seventh house
denotes the contrary. -
The Lord of the Seventh House benevo
lently beholding the Lord of the First, or the
Lord of the First so beholding a planet in the
Seventh, sheweth the querent will obtain
favour from his landlord, and generous deal
ing, Ste.
A fortunate planet in the tenth mansion,
01-in* or A to the cusp thereof, is a good
argument that the querent will conclude a
bargain.
Wm. Lilly says, that if an Infortune he in
the Medium Coeli, the parties will disagree
about repairs or buildings.
The goodness of the place contracted for
is ascertained by the situation of the Lord of
the Fourth House, if aﬁ‘licted or not; and the
nature of the sign on the cusp of the fourth,
viz. The Fiery Triplicity tr, $1,, and 1,
denotes the place to be hilly, ham], or dry;
157
the Earthy Triplicity 8 , m1, and V9, denotes
good, level land; the Airy Triplicity II, -'_‘-;
and x, denotes that the ground is neither
very high or low, but middling good; the
Watery Triplicity e5, "1, and X, sheweth
that the estate abounds with water.
2. Toﬁnd a Thing lost, hidden, or mis
laid.
In answering this question you must care
fully consider to whom the lost property or
thing belongs. If to the Father, take the Fifth
House to indicate the thing lost, because the
ﬁfth is the second from the fourth, (which is
the Father’s ascendant) and his house of sub
stance. If ’tis the querent’s own goods that
are lost, &c., then judge as under.
The lord of the second house being found
in any of the four angles, shews that the
thing inquired after is in the house of the
querent, particularly if the dispositor of 9 cast
his good aspect to him there.
~ 0
158
The 10rd of the second posited in the
ascendant, or in conjunction with the lord of
the ﬁrst, or disposed of by him, sheweth the
thing to be hidden or mislaid in that part of
the house which he himself most frequents.
If a gentleman be the inquirer, and the
10rd of the second house or the Moon be in the
tenth, then the thing lost is in his dining
room: if a trader inquire, it is in his shop,
warehouse, 8:0. But in either case if the 10rd
of the second he in the seventh, the articles
are hid or mislaid in that part of the house
his wife qr maid-servants frequent, or are
generally in: and if the signiﬁcators be in the
fourth, where the Father, “ ancient men,” or
most aged lodge, or in some decayed part of
the house.
The nature and kind of place where the
things are to be found, is known by the nature
of the signs in which you ﬁnd the lord of the
second, j), or $, posited. If you obserVe
,the major part of the signiﬁcators in q’, 31,,
and 1‘, then the things lost are near the
159
chimnies, or where iron is laid; if in n, i,
and aw, in the upper part of the house, upon
high shelves, or above the ground ﬂoor; if in
25, m, and X, it is in or near some dairy,
wash-house, moist place, or water; if in
3, ml, and 115’, near some pavement or ﬂoor
laid on the ground, or under the earth, as in
the cellar. '
If the signiﬁcators be observed going out
of one sign into another, the thing is fallen
betwixt two other things, or near unto the
going out of the room, and is higher or
lower, according to the nature of the sign,
whether ﬁery, watery, earthy, or airy. And
the quarter or part of the house where the
thing is hid, lost, &c., is known from the
nature of the signs and quarter they respec
tively signify, as we have before explained in
another part of this volume.
Thus having diligently observed where
the signiﬁcators are posited, you are to judge
by the major testimonies; and they will direct
02
160
you to the quarter of the heavens, and nature
of therplace, wherethe thing inquired of is to
be found, as we have ourselves proved true
by repeated experiments; and Lilly says he
has found this judgment prove correct, when
he has even tried it out of sport.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
may £01m.
1. Is the Querent a Virgin or not!”
If you ﬁnd the ascendant, the ﬁfth house,
and the lords or ladies thereof ﬁxed or in
ﬁxed signs.
Many planets Angular ; or the Lord 01'
Lady of the Ascendant, or ﬁfth house with (9.
§ or 74 in his own house and triplicity;
each or all are testimonials of chastity, though
if 131,1? , 3‘ , or 29 be in the ﬁfth mansion, it
shews she has had great trials.
If a barren sign be on the cusp of the
ﬁfth house, then judge she has had no children
at least.
The 6 being found in the seventh house,
or the lord of the seventh in the ﬁrst, is a
certain proof of a woman’s constancy to 'one
man.
0 3
162
The ascendant, the ﬁfth house, and the
lords or ladies thereof, moveable or in moye
able signs; a fruitful sign in the ﬁfth house,
or 2 in the ﬁfth,evilly aspected by ‘3‘, lg , 3‘ ,
or 23 shews she is unchaste.
2. If a Woman inquiring be ensient or
not?
The answer to this question is ascertained by
the following rules :—The ascendant, his lord
or lady, and the Moon are the signiﬁcators of
the woman inquiring; and any one of the
following, are arguments in the afﬁrmative.
The 10rd or lady of the ﬁrst house, or Moon,
applying to the lord of the ﬁfth, by d , * , or
A, from good houses; or I), 01' lord of the
ascendant in the ﬁfth. A planet in Cazami,
or the 10rd of the ﬁfth with its dispositor.
The signiﬁcators applying friendly, or
posited in fruitful signs, or houses which are of
that nature, as the ﬁfth, seventh, and eleventh,
or It there.
163
The Moon and lords of the triplicity in
which she is, well posited in signs of many
children or fruitful signs, that is 25, 111,
and x.
Likewise if It and 2 be in angles, free
from malign rays of 1g, b, or 3‘, you may
answer in the afﬁrmative; but if It and 2
(particularly )4, who is the natural signiﬁcator
of children) be cadent or aﬁlicted, the woman
inquiring is not ensient. And the following
conﬁgurations have the same indication.
- The signiﬁcators afﬂicted by @, l; , 3‘ , or
29. Also 13!, I? , 3‘ , and 23, in the ﬁfth house
or angular. -
If it appear that the testimonials for the
querent being ensient, are greater in number
and power than those that signify the contrary,
they then threaten abortion, or miscarriage;
and the same is shewn, when the evil planets
aﬂlict 2 , ), lord of the ﬁfth, or 10rd of the
ascendant.
164
3. Is the Woman ensieut ofa boy or girl?
To answer this question, (after having con
sulted the previous rules) observe the ascend
ant, his lord, and the ﬁfth house or lord of it,
together with Luna, and the planet to whom
she applies; for if they, or most of them, be
in masculine signs, the querent is ensient of a.
boy; butif in feminine signs, ofa girl.
But the said signiﬁcators, though they be
found feminine, or in feminine signs, if they
are in aspect of masculine planets, and in
houses masculine, the woman will have a male
child. Masculine planets are I; , lg, c; , 1;,
and Q ; feminine planets are 9 and D .
Mercury is in his nature convertible, and- is
therefore masculine or feminine, according to
the planet with which he is in aspect.
Signs of a masculine nature are (Y’, H,
51, as, 1 , and w.
Signs of a feminine nature are 3 , 9, n31,
111,, V9, and X.
These planets and signs being well observed,
you cannot fail.
165
4. Shall a Person gain or lose at Cards,
Dice, or any other Game r’
In resolving this question, you are to give
the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon to
the querent; the ﬁfth house and lord thereof
shall signify his loss or gain by any game or
play; and the seventh house and his lord, the
person with whom he plays.
If you ﬁnd the Lord of the Ascendant in
the ﬁfth, or the Lord of the Fifth in the
ascendant, in their essential dignities, no way
afﬂicted by the presence of the evil planets, or
their malevolent rays, it is an argument the
querent will gain by his play, &c.
Likewise, if you ﬁnd the Lord of the
Ascendant in d , *, or A, to the Lord of the
Fifth, especially if they apply to the aforesaid
good aspects, essentially digniﬁed; or if they
be in reception, you may pass the same judg
ment.
If you ﬁnd the Lord of the Fifth separating
from any good aspect from the Lord of the
166
~ Eighth, (which is the quesited’s house of sub
stance) to the Lord of the Ascendant, or Lord
of the Second, it is an argument that the
querent will win by his play.
If a benevolent planet is posited in the
ﬁfth house, having essential dignities therein,
and casteth his benign aspects to the Lord of
the Fifth, or Lord of the Ascendant, judge
the same.
But if, on the contrary, you ﬁnd the Lord
of the Ascendant, the Moon, or Lord of the
Second, afﬂicted by the Lord of the ﬁfth,
seventh, or eighth house, it is an argument the
querent will lose by his play, &c. or if you
ﬁnd the Lord of the Fifth in the seventh, or
in reception with the Lord of the Seventh, or
in good conﬁguration or aspect thereunto; or
if you ﬁnd the Lord of the Fifth separating
from the Lord of the Second, and applying by
d , >|<, or A to the Lord of the Eighth, it is a
proof the querent will lose money by his game
or play.
167
If you ﬁnd equal testimonials, you may
judge the most powerful signiﬁcator wins the
game; but if there happen to be three of one,
and four of the other, always decide in all
questions in favour of the greater number of
reasons or testimonies.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
itxt‘b amuse.
1. What part of the body is Jﬂicted P
Having erected the Figure, observe the
ascendant, the sixth house, and place of the
Moon, for they are naturally the signiﬁcators
of the disease; then judge in the following
manner. -
The Horoscope, that is, the cusp of the
First Mansion, afﬂicted by the presence of 1g,
1; , 3‘ , or 23, indicates clearly that the disease
lies chieﬂy in the head, and in that member
or part of the body described by the Zodiacal
sign ascending; for each of the twelve houses
govern the various parts of man’s body pre
cisely the same as the signs of the Zodiac, the
ﬁrst house having the same governance as Ir,
and consequently presiding over the head and
face; the second house governs the neck,
throat, &c., being possessed of the same indi
169
cation has 3; the third house governs the arms
and shoulders the same as n, &c. &c.
But, to proceed; if you ﬁnd the Moon in
aﬂliction from evil conﬁgurations of the Infor
tunes, the sick person is aﬂlicted in that part
of the body which the planet governs from his
own house.
For example, suppose m, to be ascending
on the cuSp of the First, and 3‘ and 9 be in
111 or in the Sixth House, in this case the
disease would be said to lay in the head,
bowels, and generative organs; because 3‘
rules over these members in either place;
which mle holds good with all the other signs
and planets.
The diseases naturally belonging to the
signs and planets have been fully particularised
when treating of them. And, permit us again
to remind the young Astrologian, always to
reckon the ascendant as signiﬁcator and ruler
over the head, face, &c., let what sign will
ascend, and so in succession, attributing the
P
170
second house to 3 , the third to n , the fourth
to Q5, &c.
2. What is the cause of the Disease or
Disorder?
The cause of the disease is ascertained
from the position of the signiﬁcators (after
you have seen, as before, in the Figure already
set, the part afﬂicted ; which Figure must also
be used for this question) in the four Trigons
or Triplicities, for therein shew they the
humours predominant.
If most of the signiﬁcators are found to be
posited in the Fiery Triplicity, they declare
the disorder to have its origin from cholor;
whence saith the old astrological physicians-—
fevers and such sort of “ ailments” proceed.
If they are the Airy Triplicity, blood is
then too predominant in the body, and causes
gout, leprosy, &c.
When the signiﬁcators of sickness are in
the Earthy Trigon, they strongly indicate the
cause of the disease to proceed originally from
171
melancholy; and those diseases are long and
tedious, bringing on, say they of the “olden
time," consumptions, agues, nervous affec
tions, 8:0.
The signiﬁcators being mostly found in
the \Vatery Triplicity denotes the disease to
proceed from cold and moist causes, as
phlegms, coughs, phthisics, and all diseases
of the stomach, and frequently those of .the
bowels. ‘
3. Shall the sick person die, or recover of
the Disease 1’
You are to consider the ascendant, the
lord thereof, and Luna, as signiﬁcatprs of the
sick person. If you ﬁnd 2‘, 9, Q and ),
in the ascendant, and not afﬂicted .by the
Lord of the Eighth House, nor yet the Lord
of the Eighth itself afﬂicted, it promises a
speedy recovery. '
Luna, or the Lord Iof the Horoscope,
separating from an evil planet, or from the
Lord of the Sixth House, and applying to a
P 2
1‘72
Fortune ( 21 or 9 ) well placed in the Figure,
denotes the same.
If you ﬁnd the Moon angular, well posited,
free from the body or beams of 131, I; , and 3‘ ,
or the Lord of Death, that is, the Lord of the
Eighth House; it is a good sign of recovery,
especially if the Man be in her exaltation.
The benevolents stronger than the malevo
lents, and beholding the Lord of the Ascend
ant or the Moon with friendly aspect, is also an
argument of recovery.
In respect to death, the Lord of the As
' cendant and D combust of G we have invari
ably found to denote death, unless there be
some reception between 9 and them; and if
D with Lord of the Ascendant be in conjunc
tion with the Lord of the Eighth House,
unless 74 and Q interpose their friendly beams,
the same is shewn. Indeed we have repeat
edly observed, when, on erecting the Figure
the Moon was found combust, that death has
followed, though no other malign conﬁguration
173
occurred, unless the Moon was relieved from
the afﬂiction as aforesaid.
The Lord of the Eighth House in an
angle, and both the Moon and the Lord of the
Ascendant cadent, or afﬂicted of the Infortunes,
presages mortality.
The application of the lord of the ascend
ant, or the Moon, unto the 10rd of the eighth,
by evil aspect, is a strong indication that no
hope is left for the sufferer; and if the lord of
the eighth be an Infortune, it puts the subject
beyond all manner of doubt.
The Lord of the Horoscope in the fourth,
sixth, or seventh houses, and aﬁlicted, por
tends dissolution. And the Lord of the Horo
scope in the eighth house, or the lord of
the eighth in the Horoscope, also gives judg
ment of mortality.
It has been said by an ancient professor
that if D be afﬂicted, by I? in the three ﬁrst
degrees of 111 there is no hope left, but in
God.
P 3
174
This question may be also answered by a
ﬁgure erected for the precise time the disease
invades the patient, or conﬁnes him to his bed
or room ; the ﬁgure thus erected is called a
Decumbiture ; and an old author observes that
if in such case a moveable sign is found ascend
ing or hearing rule otherwise, the sick party
shall either speedily die or speedily recover.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
5211mm £01152.
1. Shall the Querent .Marry 1’
Consider the position of the lord of the
ascendant, the l), 9 , and-the part of mar
riage, which is the seventh mansion of heaven,
ifall, or the major part of these signiﬁcators,
be in proliﬁc or fruitful signs, and in the ﬁrst,
ﬁfth, tenth, or eleventh houses, it is a great
argument that the querent will marry.
If the Moon or the lord of the ascendant
be in * or Awith Q, or either 2; or g , the
party inquiring may' marry.
When the lord of the ﬁrst house, the Moon,
or g , are in the seventh, or in the dignities of
the lord of the seventh, and the lord of the
seventh be in the ascendant, or in >|< or A to
the said signiﬁcators, the querent will most
certainly marry.
176
But, if none of these conﬁgurations appear,
and the signiﬁcators are in barren signs, in u
or 8 to the lord of the seventh house, then
the party inquiring is averse to, or will not
marry.
2. What kind of Person shall the Querent
Illarry .9
If a man ask this question, you must con
sider what planet the Moon is nearest in
aspect with ; if a woman ask it, consider Sol ;
also with what planet the lord of the ascend
ant is nearest in aspect, or the planet in
the ascendant; and here judge, as at all times,
by the strongest arguments, or in other words,
the greatest testimonies, and those which are
in the best reception. After this, consider
the nature of the planet signifying, in what
sign he is, and how aspected or afﬂicted; and
by the due consideration hereof you may
describe the person, his or her appearance,
quality, disposition, &.c., in a. most surprising
manner.
If the lord of the ﬁrst house or the Moon
be ind or in >l< or A with 2, the person will
177
be affable, pleasant, &c.; if so posited with
respect to Q, then the person will be noble,
generous, &c.; Mars is rash and furious, &c.;
and so on, as we have most fully developed
in the course of this work.
The signiﬁcator in the ninth or third
house, or peregrine, having no essential
dignities, portends the inquirer shall marry a
stranger, or one not born in the same county
or country as himself.
3. Shall two parties agree, and be success
ful in Partnership .3
The lord of the ascendant and the lord
of the seventh house being friendly to each
other, as may be immediately discovered by
referring to, the table at the end of the Ele
mentary Principles, and in reception or d,
*, or A with each other, declare the parties
shall agree together, and gain considerably
by their connexion and undertaking.
On the contrary, if they be enemies by
nature, and are devoid of good rays towards
178
each other, and in no reception, it is a con
clusive argument that they never will agree,
but will be incessantly jarring, and prove
injurious to each other.
If the lord of the ascendant be a more
weighty planet than the lord of the seventh
house, and better digniﬁed, it indicates that
the querent will proﬁt more by the partner
ship than his companiou will; on the other
hand, the lord of the seventh being observed
to be the most ponderous planet, and better
digniﬁed, indicates that the querent will be
the least fortunate of the two.
Mars or Mercury being lord of the second
house, and afﬂicting the lord of the eighth,
shews that the querent will cheat his partner ,'
and again on the other hand, if either 3‘ or
if he lord of the eighth, and aﬁlict the lord
of the second, the partner will cheat the
querent. The reason of all this will be per
fectly clear to the experienced student, because
§ being awicked planet when signiﬁcator of
money, will, when afﬂicting the quesited's
179
second, (that is, the eighth of the Figure,)
afﬂict the quesited's pocket also.
,
Lastly, he whose signiﬁcators are strongest
will prbsper and be most fortunate in the part
nership undertaking; and he whose signiﬁca
tors are the weakest will be injured, if such
signiﬁcators are posited in evil places in the
Figure.
4. Who is the Thief, and of what dye,
and Sex F
The planet or planets afﬂicting the signi
ﬁcator of substance, (which is the second house
and the lord thereof,) or the Part of Fortune,
signiﬁes the thief, whether such planet or
planets be peregrine, or essentially digniﬁed;
and this is more certain, if at the same time
the aﬂiicting one hath dignities in the seventh
house.
Now, if no planets afﬂict the second, his
lord 01' Part of Fortune, see if there be a pere
grine or errant in an angle, for then he shall
be admitted as signiﬁcator of the thief; and if
180
none of these are observed, take the lord of
the seventh for the thief, and by his dignities,
detriments, aspects, &c., describe the culprit
accordingly; yet prefer the peregrine planet
'in the ascendant before any in other angles ;
'the tenth next; then the seventh; and lastly,
the fourth; and we would have you to pay
particular attention to the planet afﬂicting the
Part of Fortune, and his lord.
If you ﬁnd many peregrine planets pos
ited in the angles or afﬂicting the house of
substance, its lord or 69, you may thereby
conclude there are many thieves ;—-and double
bodied signs, particularly II, in the seventh,
we have often found to show the same.
If the planet afﬂicting the substance, &c.
be of a masculine nature, and in a masculine
sign and quarter, the thief is a man; if the
planet and sign be feminine, a woman.
Saturn being signiﬁcator of the thief shows
he is old, except he be posited in the beginning
of a sign.
181
If Sol, Jupiter, or Mars be signiﬁcath of
thief, then say he is about thirty years of age,
or something more.
If Venus and Mercury signify, he is young.
Luna discovers the age of the thief by her
own; if she is in her ﬁrst quarter the thief is
a child, if she be in the beginning ofa sign;
if otherwise a youth; if in her second quarter,
twenty or thirty years old; in her third,
between thirty and forty-ﬁve; in her last,
between forty-ﬁve and sixty.
But you may describe the rascal to a nicety,
by making use of the table given and fully
explained in the former part of the work.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
92mm was»;
1. 0f the Querent's length of Life and
man-nor of Death !"
In this question there is some little diﬁi
culty, as also in that relating to the length of
the Querent's life, and we would scarcely
advise the student to attempt the solution of
either question, by an Horary Figure, if he
could procure the Nativity, it being by far the
safer ﬁgure to go upon, in all questions inti
mately relating to the personal fortune of the
inquirer. Brit as many would consider the work
incomplete without some rules on the subject,
we have inserted the following :I—
If the Moon be in her nodes, combust, or
in eclipse, then conclude, if it be a child you
inquire of, that it will die in its infancy. And
the Moon in conjunction with 1g, b , or 3‘ , in
the sixth, eighth, or twelfth house, indicates
the same.
183
All the planets under the earth, and neither
9 or 1) in their dignitics, also signiﬁes the
death of the infant; and l; in conjunction
with lg or 3‘ in the ascendant, has the' same
eﬂ'ect.
If none of the foregoing evils are observed,
_ and they not being very violent, and if 9 or
D be strong in dignity, free from afﬂiction,
and assisted by 24 and 9 , then the querent
or quesited will have a long life.
Yet, if you ﬁnd the ascend‘ant, Q, or 1),
atliicted by aspect, position, or conﬁguration,
and many violent ﬁxed stars with, or not more
than ﬁve degrees off them, the length of life
will be materially shortened.* And for the
" Though it must be observed, that the signiﬁcators
being posited near or with ﬁxed stars of a benign nature,
have consequently a favourable cﬂ'ect ; and this eﬂ'ect is
always of the nature mentioned in the table. The ﬁxed
stars are, however, seldom taken notice of in Horary
Questions, but in Nativitics they must by no means be
overlooked. ZlIr. Smilh observes, that a skilful amateur
in the science, supposes their influence to contribute more
Q2
184
r.
convenience of the young Astrologian, we
have inserted the opposite table, contain
ing the most powerful ﬁxed stars, their places
in the heavens, and their nature, which also
describes their colour; for if a star be of
the nature of 3‘, then you will ﬁnd it of a
red colour; if of the nature of I; , of a dull
leaden colour, &c.
Now, as to the manner of death, whether
natural or violent, either the lord of the eighth
house, or the planet posited thcrein, sheweth
it; due reference being given to the planet or
planets beholding him or them. If the signi
ﬁcator be It or 9 in their essential dignities;
or if the eighth house or lord thereof be free
from aﬁliction, then the querent will die a
natural and easy death, except violent ﬁxed
stars are near them.
If 1; be the signiﬁcator, he denotes death
1) atruc, dro s , or consum tion; if 3‘ b
y c P y P y
particularly to the destinies of kingdoms and nations,
than to individual fate, an idea which seems to be
favoured by Ptolemy.
185
fevers, &c.; the Q by pleurisies, or obstruc
tions of the bowels; if by frenzy, madness,
phthisic, &c. ; and D by drowning, or diseases
of a cold and moist nature.
Fiery Signs shew death by ﬁre, guns, &c. ;
watery signs, by water.
The signiﬁcator of moi‘tality in n , 51,, or
the last part of 1*, by a horse; and if the
greater and lesser luminary be posited in violent
signs, not beholding each other, this presages
a violent death.
2. What shall be the fate of the Sick
Person’s Will?
The answer to this question would be most
rationally given, from the position of the
heavens at the time the invalid performs the
last act of execution, i. e. when he places his
ﬁnger on the seal : the Rules are as follows :—
The Moon, ﬁrst or eighth house, or the
lord of either, (but particularly the Moon and
ascendant) being in moveable signs denotes
mutability, and thatafter a short time the
0. 3
186
\Vill shall be re-made; but regard must be
here had as to whether the testator will recover
from his indisposition or no, for if you observe
in the same ﬁgure the Moon, the ascendant
and its lord, to be afﬂicted, it denotes the
speedy death of the party, and thus the \Vill
shall stand, especially if 3 be not in the
aseendant or aspects it, but is joined by body
to the Moon, yet though it is kept, in a short
time it shall be lost or.stolen;,if lg aﬂlict
the ascendant the Will shall be altered.
If T? be bodily with the Moon 01' lord of
the ascendant, and in no aspect to the ascendant,
it signiﬁes that the sick person shall yet live,
and the W'ill then made shall not be revoked, _
but continue in force after his death.
2.; and <3 so posited intimates that the
testator shall recover, and some time after
he shall destroy the former Will and make
another.
187
3. Shall the querent obtain the expected
Legacy or not P
In judging this question we cannot too
greatly impress on the student’s mind the
absolute necessity of directing his attention to
the proper house. If the querent expects a
legacy from his own mother, then the tenth
house of the ﬁgure signiﬁes her, and conse
quently the eleventh, her substance, property,
&c. If it be the querent's wife’s mother, then
the student must consult the fourth house of
the ﬁgure, which, being the tenth from the
seventh,\(his wife’s house) constitutes the
ascendant of his wife’s mother 5 and so forth.
If the ascendant, its lord, and D, which
are the querent’s signiﬁcators, be strong in
their own houses, unafilicted by body or aspect
of lg, l2, 3, or £9, and if the lord of the
quesited be friendly with D or lord of the
ascendant, and aspect her, or him by >I< or
or join with her or him in d , it sheweth that
the legacy will be left as desired.
188
And the lord of the eighth house, being in
the ascendant, or in good aspect with Q, 2;,
or lord of the ascendant, unaﬂlicted, shews the
same; as also does many good planets posited
in the eighth.
Yet, you must also observe, whether the
querent's second house, its lord, or 63, be
afﬂicted, and then, collecting the testimonies,
judge accordingly.
The eighth and second houses, their lords,
and Q, being afﬂicted, and the querent’s and
quesited's lords being enemies by nature, shews
that the inquirer will not obtain the hoped for
legacy; and the student will be able to say
what will be the hindrance in this matter, by
consulting other aspects and parts of the ﬁgure,
for which purpose the rules immediately pre
ceding these will we hope be found of some
use.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
Ninth wanes.
1. Of the success ofa Book 01‘ olher literary
undertaking.
(This question may be correctly answered,
either by setting the ﬁgure to the time when
the writing of the book was commenced, its
publication, or when the author felt a sudden
and ardent desire to know its fate. And the
following question respecting the voyage, may
also be answered in a similar manner, either
by setting the ﬁgure for the time when the
vessel sailed, or at the time when the querent
felt very desirous to foreknow the prosperity
n' adversity of the voyage.)
The quesited is signiﬁed by the ninth
101138, its lord, and the planet or planets
herein posited.
'If 25 and Q be in the ninth house, or 3;
lord thereof, well digniﬁed, and unalilicted
190
by evil planets, or lords of the fourth, eighth,
or twelfth; or if t! be in his own house or
dignities, and at the same time Cazami of the.
Sun, in good aspect to the lord of the ninth,
then fear nothing,—the work will prosper.
Good planets in the ninth house in A to
§ in the ascendant, or § in the ninth, wcll
aspected by good planets in the ascendant, is
also a favourable prognostic.
But if you ﬁnd 35 the planet of wisdom
afﬂicted, and in a cadent house; and if evil
planets be in the ninth; or that most of the
planets have withdrawn their light, and are
under the earth, afﬂicting tlfe ninth house or
its 10rd, there is then a dreary prospect,
and the book will get well seasoned and dry——
.alack! perhaps worm-eaten,——on the upper
shelves of the publisher.
The planet or planets causing this, and
particularly the one afﬂicting § and the lord
of the ninth, will discover the cause of the
calamity.
191
2. Will the voyage prove prosperous or
not? ‘
Upon the vessel’s ﬁrst setting sail, you
must observe the angles of the ﬁgure; and if
the fortunate planets, and the Moon (for saith
the ancient writers, “ she is the Lady of the
Seas”) are found therein, and the unfortunate
planets cadent, combust, or under the Sun’s
beams, not at the same time afﬂicting the Moon,
or the Lord of the Horoscope, you may safely
conclude that both ship and cargo will arrive
safe in the desired haven. >
But if 1&1, l}, or 3‘ be angular, or in
succeedent houses, she will meet with some
misfortune in her voyage, and the misfortune
will take place in that part of the ship, or to
those persons, &e. signiﬁed by the sign where
the malevolent erratick is posited, for which,
see the question numbered 5, in the rules for
solving inquiries belonging to the ﬁrst house.
If 72 or 3‘ aﬁlict the lords of the angles,
the mariners will be in danger of death,
enemies, or pirates.
192
If the tenth house he vitiated by 3‘ , and
near violent ﬁxed stars, 3‘ being at the same
time in a. humane sign, the ship will be in
danger of being burnt by the enemy.
If 3‘ be so posited, but not in a humane
sign, then the ship will be in danger of ﬁre
by lightning, or accident.
You may also discover in what part of the
vessel the ﬁre will commence, by considering
the sign wherein the maleﬁck planet is placed
in the ﬁgure.
Again, ifit appear that there is a 1:1 or 8
between the lord of the ascendant and the dis
poser* of D, without .reception, there will
then arise discord and contention among the
seamen, or there will be so much dispute
between the captain and his crew, as often to
cause an open mutiny.
* A Dispositor or Disposer is that planet who is Lord
'of the Sign where another planet chances to be; c. g.
suppose the Moon be in 11, § would then be called her
Disposer. ‘
193
In this case the strongest signiﬁcator will
overcome; that is, if the sovereign of the
ascendant is more fortiﬁed than the disposer
of )) , the men will overcome; but if the dis
poser of Luna be stronger than the sovereign
of the ascendant, then the captain will prevail,
and the mutineers be put down.
The signiﬁcators in movable signs indicate
a short voyage; in common signs in a reason
able time ; and in ﬁxed signs, a long and
tedious voyage. If the signiﬁcators be oriental,
a quick return may be also expected; if in
occidental, not in near so short a time.
Note, that all long journies and voyages
belong to this house; short journies of a day
or two, properly belong to the third house.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
went!) yeast.
1. What Trade or Profession will the
Querent follow?
Studiously consider the tenth house, its
lord, and the place of the Moon ; for according
to the quality of the stars, either in the tenth,
or aspecting its lord and the Moon, as also the
nature of the sign in the tenth, and the sign
in which its lord and the Moon,are located,
so will the profession or occupation of the
querent be.
Therefore, in the ﬁrst place, 131 denotes a
business (as he does every thing else) quite
out ofthe common way, and so, often produces
the astrologer, and lover of nature’s secrets.
1? denotes persons professing ancient
matters, and those occupations wherein money
is obtained with great difﬁculty.
195
1; denotes honourable and lucrative occu
pations, which are generally places of dignity
and trust.
3‘ denotes, if ill digniﬁed, workers in
metals, particularly iron ; if well digniﬁed,
soldiers both in the army and navy, as the sign
in which he is posited is of the ﬁery or watery
triplicity.
2 denotes occupations which require an
elegant and cultivated mind, as music, &c., if
she be in airy signs; painting, if in earthy
signs, &c. But consider how she is digniﬁed
in the ﬁgure.
2: denotes all literary and scientiﬁc occu
pations if he be well digniﬁed; if the con
trary, one subsisting by theft, or at best by
light, easy, and almost worthless occupations.
)) denotes various professions, according
to the sign in which she is posited, but in all
cases the person signiﬁed by her will be
changeable and unstable; if in her dignities,
through the nature and necessity of his em
R 2 '
196
ployment; if on the contrary, through idle
ness, &c. In watery signs, QB, 1'1, X, 5118
denotes those relating to sea-faring and naval
occupations; or dealers in liquids; in other
signs her nature is altered accordingly.
Lastly, (9 denotes a ruler of the state,
under the state, or over some public body of
men; as a captain or general, if he be well
aspected by or in d with 3‘ , &c.
Though the above are the several signiﬁ
cations of the planets and luminaries found
separate, yet they will in m0st cases, be found
conjoined with others either by body or aspect,
and in such cases, a dexterous mixture of each
signiﬁcation must be effected, before the truth
can be attained. A close attention must be also
paid to the dignity of the signiﬁcators, as was
,previously observed, &c. And if you ﬁnd 63
and the signiﬁcators afﬂicted, then conclude
that the querent will be unfortunate in his
trade, business, or profession.
197
The following miscellaneous maxims, from
various authors, may be also found amusing,
and in many cases useful :—
The signiﬁcators being in %, -'_\-, q), or
W, shews that the querent will be very inven
tive; and 171 gives a great love for chemistry ;
if I? be also there then an alchemist is
produced.
The signiﬁcators strong, in the eastern
01' southern angle, denotes great eminence in
the profession, whatever it may be.
Evil planets in 8 to the same angles
threaten but a mediocrity in the occupation;
the same is also indicated if the signiﬁeators
are in cadeut houses.
D in 1‘ and X, maketh mourners, and
those moved of devils; also D being signiﬁ
eator, and posited in 111 or "L, denoteth a
diviner, and one having foreknowledge.
If 5! be signiﬁcator, and aspected by lg,
it denoteth wicked sorcerers, poisoners, and
R 3
198
deceivers; if she be aspected by 74, cham
pions, and those promoted to honour by women.
If the 10rd of the fourth mansion be in
the ﬁfth, thou wilt be fortunate in tilling of
the earth, or in navigation.
7.; in the ﬁfth, doth make a man fortunate
in embassies.
But, after all, this question is best answered
from the nativity of the querent.
2. Shall the Inquirer obtain the Oﬁce,
Place, or Prqferment desired, or not .9
The ascendant, his lord, and the Moon, are
always the querent’s signiﬁcators. The tenth
house, his lord, and 9, who is the natural sig
niﬁcath of honour and dignity, representeth
the place, &c., inquired after.
The Moon, or Lord of the Horoscope, in
any of their own dignities, free from evil
rays, is an argument that the querent shall
obtain the prefer-ment, &c.
199
If you ﬁnd the lord of the tenth house in
the ascendant, or the 10rd of the ascendant
in >|< or A to Q, or to a. benevolent planet
in the Medium le2', then conclude the querent
shall obtain, &c. And if you ﬁnd the lord of
the ascendant or the Moon in >|< or A to the
lord of the tenth house, it is another strong
conclusion.
Luna, or any fortunate erratick, separating
from the 10rd of the Medium Coeli, and apply
ing to the Lord of the Horoscope, either by
body or aspect, denotes the same.
\Vhen the signiﬁcators behold each other
by D or 8 , and without reception, it sheweth
that the preferment will not be obtained.
131, ‘2, or J in the .Medium Cceli, and
__ afﬂicting the lord of the ascendant, 01' the Moon,
or 23 in the same, denotes very little hope to
the inquirer of obtaining the ofﬁce or prefer
ment desired.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
name; Qnuse.
Among others, the following deserves the
most attention.
Shall the Querent obtain what he hopes
for :"
When this question is propouuded in a
general manner, then let the ascendant and
his lord, with the planet 0r planets posited in
the eleventh mansion and his 10rd, be the
signiﬁcators. But if the Inquirer in propound
ing any question, tell the particular thing he
hopes to obtain, then the rules must be varied,
as the subject many require.
If, after erecting the Figure you see the
lord of the ﬁrst or D applying to a * or A
of the lord of the eleventh, the querent will
obtain the thing hoped for, whatever it may
be.
201
t The lord of the ascendant or I) in the
eleventh house, and no way aﬁlicted, but in
reception with the lord of the eleventh, denotes
the very same.
Fortunate planets in the eleventh, in good
aspect to the ﬁrst, also predict that he shall
obtain. '
And, the lord of the ﬁrst house, or I),
received in ﬁxed signs, shew that the querent
shall obtain what he hopes for, and that com
pletely.
On the contrary, if you ﬁnd the lord of
the mansion of hope in U or 8 to the lord of
the ﬁrst mansion, or ), without reception
the querent will not obtain.
Evil planets or 8 in the eleventh, or the
lord of the eleventh peregrine, retrograde, or
combust, or aﬂiicted by the infortunes, denotes
the same.
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE
3mm!) muse.
Of a Prisoner or Debtor, Captive, é'c.
when shall he be set at liberty?
Among other questions relating to afﬂiction,
we deem the rules for answering this of the
most essential importance.
Observe, the lord of the ascendant, or Moon
swift in motion, denotes freedom in a short
time, especially if the lord of the twelfth house
is in a moveable sign, and at the same time in
good aspectl to a fortunate planet.
The lord of the ascendant, or Moon, in any
of the cadent houses, denotes a long conﬁne
ment.
The lord of the ﬁrst house afﬂicted by ’3‘,
b, or 3‘ , or under the sun’s beams, or if it
be retrograde, it also shows long imprisonment.
203
And, if the Infortune be lord of the eighth
house, or mansion of death, the quesited will
die in prison,—by what means will be ascer
tained from another part of the ﬁgure.
A ﬁxed sign ascending, denotes long re
straint, especially if its lord is a ponderous
planet; a common sign, not so long; and a
moveable sign, short imprisonment.
The manner of ascertaining the precise
length of time before the party inquired of
be released from “ durance vile,” is by observ
ing the degrees intervening between the signi
ﬁcator and the fortunate planet, or Q, and
according to the signs in which they are found,
that is, ﬁxed, common, or moveable ; all which
has been fully explained in a previous part of
the work, when giving rules for the judgment
of general questions.
A PARTING WORD WITH THE
aspirant.
Our work is done,—but not so your study ;
be not deceived with the vain idea that this
celestial knowledge is to be acquired by a
desultory reading ;—cast far from you the
thought, that it possesses any of the light
frivolities of “ card divination,” or other such
“ ﬁgments.” Read this volume seriously and
attentively; for he who would con the Ever
lasting Scroll, must not expect to accomplish
his desires without much study. Though the
knowledge of the rudiments are essential, it is
not suﬁicient merely to possess the faculty of
gabbling over the names of the twelve signs;
it is not sufﬁcient merely to know how many
degrees constitute a sextile or trine aspect,
&c.; it is not sulﬁcient merely to be able to
erect a ﬁgure; and though you may know all
this,—-yet it is not sufﬁcient. To be expert
and unerring in the science, a full, clear, and
205
deep knowledge of the signiﬁcation of the
houses, the signs, the planets, and their digni
ties, with their various signiﬁcation, when
located in this or the other part of the heavens,
or when joining their rays with other planets,
&c., &c., must be diligently acquired—Then
comes the reward—
“ Who can satiate sight
In such a scene, in such an ocean widc
0f deep astonishment!” YOUNG.
.
What a superiority must the Astrologian
feelaover his fellow-mortalsl—And 0! what
an intensity of feeling, what an expansion of
soul is experienced in the calm autumn-even
ing, when the sun has set in glory, and the
crimsoned clouds have sailed away! when all
is still—very, very still,—and the starry host,
the Suns of other worlds, begin to glimmer
forth from their deep blue-sanctuaries.
“ Oh ! ye glorious torches, by whose heavenly light
We read the volume of futurity!
Ye golden sanctuaries of knowledge, safe
And inaccessible, ’midst all the change,
S
206
The ebb and flow of mortal accident !
When the vast deluge spread its mighty wings
Over the earth, ye tracked a path of light
On the abyss, o’er which the hallow’d ark
Floated in safety; when proud Babel fell,
And accents strange to human ears were dropt
From human lips, ye spake one language still,
And told the same bright tale 5 when Omar gave
The Alexandrian wonder to the ﬂames,
Ye spread your ample volume o’er his 'head
In broad derision; bidding him advance
His torches, and add fuel to his pile,
To shrich up your shining leaves, and melt .
The glitt’ring elasps of gold that guarded them l”
NEELE.
And, permit us to advise you, if on erecting
a ﬁgure, whether it be for yourself or any
other inquirer, most resolutely to cast away
all thoughts of the present or past, and all
partiality, by which you may be inﬂuenced
in the judgment, and collecting the testi
monies, ﬁrmly and candidly give your opinion,
without any reference to other indications but
those of the ﬁgure, however they may appear
to conflict with present circumstances. So
deeply was Bonatus impressed with this, that
207
he thought it unadvisable for the " artist" to
judge his own question and ﬁgure, fearing
that he might be led away by outward ap
pearances ; therefore of this let the student
beware.
And now, kind and indulgent reader, fare
well ;—may the “ stars, which are the poetry
of heaven," under the guidance of their Great
Creator, look down with a favouring eye on
you and your studies;-may you feel the
satisfaction we have felt in their contempla
tion ;——and
“ When the moon is on the wave,
And the glowm‘orm in the grass,
And the meteor on the grave,
And the wisp on the morass;
When the falling stars are shooting,
And the answer’d owls are booting,
And the silent leaves are still
In the shadow of the hill,”
Brnon’s Mauritian.
may that indescribably calm and serene feeling
steal over your delighted soul, as you “look
through Nature, up to Nature’s God 1”
“ s 2
. I
,féi'i‘tsl,
,{~“_. 6*,
. (:51 Jinn}
~ - as
.g',
\chev?
INDEX.
PAGE
PREFACE .............................. m
ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l
Explanation of the Aspects, Partile and Platick 7
Nature of the Twelve Zodiacal Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . 11 f"
Essential Dignities and Debilities explained. . . . . . ‘24
The Sun, Moon, and Planets, &c., with their Nature
and Effects .-........................ 27 r
signiﬁcation of the Sun and Planets in the Twelve
Heavenly Constellations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 I
Explanation of the meaning of the symbolical
characters made use of to represent the
Signs, Sun, Planets, &c........-........ 68
Alphabetical List of the Technical Words and
Terms made use of by Astrological Writers 75
Explanation of the Twelve Houses of Heaven, and
the Astrological Signiﬁcations and Properties
thereof.........................-.... 86
Instructions for erecting the Figure, and placing
the Planets, 8w. therein. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . 97
210
PAGE
The Art of Resolving Horas-y Questions.
Introduction .............................. 114
To know whether the Question is Radical or ﬁt to
be Judged.......................... ll7
RULES FOR. SOLVING GENERAL QUESTIONS.
Quere 1. Is the subject of inquiry to be or
not to be'! .................. 118
2. What shall be the destruction or
hindrance ofa matter inquired of’! 120
3. Is the matter Good or Evilt. . . . . . . . 122
4. Is the report True or False’!. . . . . . . . 122
5. “’here, or which way, and how far
off? ........................ 123
6. When or in what time?. . . . . . . on , 126
7. How, by what means, or why i. . . . . . 129
Curious and astonishing Rules for discovering
the Moles on any Person’s Body. . . . . . . . . . 130
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE FIRST HOUSE.
Quere 1. Of the length ofthe Querent’s Life! .. 135
2. Is an absent Person dead or still
livingt...................... 136
3. To what part of the world shall the
Querent direct his course to
prosper? ..............--.-.. 138
211
PAGE
Quere 4. Shall the Querent ﬁnd the person at
. home with whom he desires to
speak?...................... 140
5. Of a. Ship at Sea, her safety or
destruction? ................ 142
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE SECOND HOUSE.
Querc 1. Shall the Querent be rich or poor'!. . 145
2. How, or by what means shall he
obtainRiches?................ I46
3. Shall the Querent obtain the money
lent, or due for goods sold and
delivered! .. 148
4. Will a Ticket in a Raﬁie, or other
Lottery, prove a Blank or a
Prize@..............-....... 149
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE THIRD HOUSE.
Quere 1. Shall the Querent, his Brother, &c.
agree@...................... 151
2. Is the Adviceofa Friend good or bad!. . 153
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE FOURTH HOUSE.
Quere 1. Shall the Querent hire or take the
House, &c., or not; and what is
the quality or goodness ofit ? . . . . I55
2. To ﬁnd a thing lost, hidden, or
mislaidl.................... I57
212
PAGE
QUESTIONS PROPER ron THE FIFTH HOUSE.
Quere 1. Is the Querent a Virgin or not'!. . . . 161
2. Ifa woman he cnsient or not ’5. . . . 162
3. Is the woman cnsient ofa boy origirll 164
4. Shall a person gain or lose at Cards,
Dice, or any other Game 2. . . . . . 165
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE SIXTH HOUSE.
Quere 1. What part of the body is afﬂicted ’.l 168
2. What is the cause of the Disease or
Disorder? . ................ 170
3. Shall the sick person die, or recover
ofthe Disease! ......,....... 171
QUESTIONS PROPER for the SEVENTH HOUSE.
Quere 1. Shall the Querent marry ’5. . . . . . . . 175
2. What kind of person shall the
Querent marl'yi.......... 176
3. Shall two parties agree, and be suc
cessfulin Partnership 1' . . . . . . - . 177
4. Who is the Thief, of what age and
sexL....................... 179
QUESTIONS PROPER FOB\ THE EIGHTH HOUSE.
Qucre 1. Of the Quercnt’s length of Life and
manner ofDeath-....-.-.- n“ 182
213
PAGE
Quere 2. What shall be the fate of the sick
person’sWillt................ 185
3. Shall the Querent obtain the ex
pected Legacy or not? . . . . . . . . 187
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE NINTH HOUSE.
Quere 1. Of the Success of a Book or other
literary undertakingt. . . . . . . . . . 189
2. Will the voyage prove prosperous or
not?...........'............. 191
QUESTIONS PROPER FOR THE TENTH HOUSE.
Quere I. What trade or profession will the
Querent follow? 194
2. Shall the Inquirer obtain the Ofﬁce,
Place, or Preferment desired or not i. . 198
QUESTIONS PROPER for theELEVEN'I‘H IIOUSE.
Shall the Querent obtain what he hopes for t... 200
QUESTIONS PROPER for the TWELFTH HOUSE.
Of a Prisoner or Debtor, Captive, &c., when
shall he beset at liberty?.... . ...:.. 202
A PARTING WORD wrru run ASPIRANT 204
214
Peer:
LIST OF THE TABLES.
Orbs and Mean Motion of the Planets . . . . . . . . . . 10
Friendships and Enmities of the Planets. . . . . . ibid
Essential Fortitudes of the Planets . . . . . . . . . . 23
It Essential Debilities ........................ ibid
i" Magnitudes, Periods, and Revolutions of the
Planets ..............-....--.......... 29
Degrees Masculine, Feminine, &e., in each Sign
oftheZodiac.......................... 65
Quarters signiﬁed by the Signs of the Zodiac
and TwelveHouses 96
Table ofHouses for the Latitude of London . . . . ‘- . 108
Measureof Time 128
Powerful Fixed Stars .................._.... 184
')
FINIS.
