{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__judson___alphabet_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Alphabet Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
ALPHABET
OF
PHRENOLOGY.
A SHORT SKETCH OF THAT SCIENCE,
FOR THE USE OF BEGINNERS.
BY H. T. JUDScfN, M. D.
..,
" The mind is nobler than the universe."
Channing-.
~ehl:;~orll:
CHARLES S. FRANCI~-252 BROADWAY.
MUNROE & FRAN'..!l~00ST,-Jt{.
·- ··
::.'c~ia.
Entered, according to.Act of Congress, in the year 1833, by
CHARLES S. FRANCis, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New-York.
CLAYTON & VAN NORDEN, PRINTERS,
49 WrLLUM-STREET, NEw-YoRR.
' /~:\----;;---~----~:~~-\
., / 34- ,/33 \, _,/ 33 \ \'\
/'-J ( - ----,~>-·-"--:---- -----1---.j ...
: \__--\- :37 \ j(J ,: 3J / J.z :/6 :
·-.\~tl:f,\~:,:_:;;~:-~f,~;~~rK
-:\.~A~;\ f,'®o~>j,,
" ~~ ~
~)
"C::SJ
: /+ J /ff /
;;;l<~~-?~7'~2~:.?·-..~
: / j!l / Jfj : 8 ,' 12 >-----..:.3
~~~\~672;\____j .-----:/----:----( 4 '>-
,~;\221'J
',,,! 7 v/~
-----6-; .f' ··-·•. / 2
.. ~./1. ,' '·: ("(\ ' __:_ __ _
';; f7'2i'':, ~:-~, \:·-~ -,
~/_)
_
__./
....../
L'JJ~(J~ry'.r .Zt!Jv.vY.Ye>r.k .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE.
CLASS I.-PROPENSITIES.
I. Amativeness.
2. Philoprogenitiveness.
3. 9oncentrativeness or Inhabi- (
tlveness. S
4. Adhesiveness.
5. Combativeness.
6. Destructiveness.
7. Constructiveness.
8. Acquisitiveness.
9. Secretiveness.
., Not established, but supposed
by Dr. Spurzheim to be the organ
of the de;;;ire for food and drink, and
called Alimentiveness.
CLASS II.-SENTIM:ENTS.
10. Self-esteem.
11. Love of approbation.
12. Cautiousness.
13. Benevolence.
14. Veneration.
15. Hope.
16. Ideality.
17. Conscientiousness.
18. Firmness.
34. Wonder or Marvellousness.
CLASS IlL-INTELLECT.
p.ART I.-PERCEPTIVE F.ACULTIES.
19. Eventuality and Individuality.
20. Form.
21. Size.
22. Weight.
23. Colouring.
24. Locality.
25. Order.
26. Time.
27. Number or Numeration.
28. Tune.
29. Language.
P.ARTII.-REFLECTINGF.ACULTJES.
30. Comparison.
31. Causality.
32. Wit.
33. Imitation.
N. B. The organs are situated in this plate as in Dr. Spurzheim's, but they are numbered differently, to cor-
respond with the arrangen~ent of the present work.
3
A VIEW
()F
PHRENOLOGY.
I DESIGN to present a general view of phre-
naJogy, its origin, nature, and progress.
The literal signification ofthe term, is-a dis-
course concerning the mind. By phrenologv,
however, is usually understood that system ~of
mental and moral philosophy, which recognises
the brain as a congeries of organs, by which
the mental and moral faculties are manifested,
during the connexion of the mind and the
body. It makes no pretension to ascertain the
nature of the mind itself, nor to determine
whether it be material or immaterial, destined
to immortality, or to perish with the body.
Wisely does it leave these interesting inquiries
to be solved by knowledge of a different kind.
As phrenology, in connexion with other
branches of science, such as those of insanity,
legislation, and education, may be regarded
as the greatest and most important discovery
of modern times, it becomes us to attend to the
1•
A VIEW OF
history of its origin and progress. The ho..
nour of the discovery is unquestionably due to
Dr. Gall, of Vienna. Dr. Spurzheim and Mr.
Combe merit the praise of-!Iaving been the most
successful cultivators of the science.
Dr. Gall, from an early age, was disposed
to observation. He noticed the fact, that his
brothers, and sisters, and schoolfellows, were
each distinguished by some peculiarity of ta-
lent or disposition. He found that the schq-
]ars with whom he had the greatest difficulty
in competing~ were those who learned by heart
with much facility ; and such individuals fre-
quently gained from him, by their repetitions~
the places of honour and commendation, to
which he had juHly gained a title by the merit
of his original .compositions. His schoolfel-
lows so gifted were observed to possess pro-
minent eyes, and subsequently, in similar cases,
he found this to be uniformly true. This fact,
we are told, suggested to him the propriety of
looking to the heads around him for other or-
gans, either of intellect or of s~ntiment. From
the first he referred the cause to the brain, and
not to the bones o[ the head, as it has been ab-
surdly represented by the opponents of the
system. ·
Dr. Gall studied the metaphysical writers
with but little satisfaction. Being fully con-
vinced there was a natural difference between
t\ . \
•
PHRENOLOGY, 'i
individuals as to talents and dispositions, and
f-inding those writers not acknowledging this
principle, but speaking of all men as born '~:ith
equal melltal faculties and moral susceptibili-
ties) and maintaining that the differences ob-
servable between them were owing either to
education or to accidental circumstances, he
laid aside all reliance upon their theories, anrl
devoted himself to the studv of nature. "He
visited prisons, and resorted to schools; he was
introduced to the courts of princes, to col-
leges, and the seats of justice; and wherever ,
he heard uf an individual distinguished in any
particular way, either by remarkable endow-·
ment or deficiency, he observed and studied
the developement of his head. In this manner,
by an almost imperceptible induction, he con-.
ceived himself warranted in believing that par-
ticular mental powers are indicated by particu-
lar configurations of the head." Anatomical
investigations next occupied his attention, and
he made several important discoveries respect-
ing the structure ofthe brain and nerves. The
fibrous constitution of the brain has by him
and Dr. Spurzheim been demonstrated to the
satisfaction of all anatomists, even of them who
continue opposed to the peculiar doctrines of
phrenology.
Dr. Gall did not, as l1e has been falsely re-
presented, first map out a head and assign a fa-
A VIEW OF
culty to each part, according to his fancy or
caprice; on the contrary, he remarked an
agreement between certain mental faculties or
moral dispositions, and certain forms ofthe cra-
nium, and they were located one by one as they
were presented to his observation.
Dr. G. Spurzheim began the study in 1800,
as a student of Gall, and has been an indefati-
gable labourer in the field of phrenological
investigation, and a strenuous and successful
advocate of truth and humanity. He has lec-
tured in France, Great Britain, Ireland, and
the United States. He arrived in New-York
in July, 1832, and proceeded to Boston, where,
after lecturing several weeks, he terminated his
valuable life. Worthy of all eulogium and of
all regret, he sleeps in our land : but his works
survive, and may be considered as a valuable
bequest to the friends of wisdom and virtue.
His powers of analysis were great ; and much
of th~ order .and harm~ny of the science may
be fatrly attrtbnted to htm. Nor were his mo-
ral sentiments less valuable or endearing. In
tbis country (and I am proud to mention the
fact) he was received with enthusiasm, enter-
tained with cordiality, and lamented with sin-
cere esteem, as well as heartfelt sorrow. "Re-
quiescat in pace."
In 1816, Mr. George Combe became a con-
vert, and he has publish~g a treatise on phre-
PHRENOLOGY. 9
nology, which is one of the best written and
most interesting books in the English lan-
guage. The Phrenological Journal and 1\'Iis-
cellany has also contributed to the wide diffu-
sion of knowledge on this increasing, and, as I
firmly believe, enduring science.
Dr. Charles Caldwell, of Kentucky, and
others in this country, have given it their de-
cided approbation; and we may confidently
say that the subject has received an impu1se
which will render its continuance perpetual,
its progress certain, and its triumph comple·te.
When we reflect upon the capacity and en-
ergy of the mind; when we remember its
boundless range and high destiny; when we car-
ry our thoughts forward towards its nobler anti-
cipations and glorious endowments, and at the
same,time realize how unsatisfactory have been
the speculations of metaphysicians, and how
inadequate consciousness is to reveal its nature
and properties ; we cannot but highly value the
inestimable benefits which phrenology has
bestowed upon the science of mind, and the
brilliant light which it has shed over the men-
tal, and moral, and physical constitution of
man. The time of ridicule has passed away.
A sneer is no shiehl for ignorance; and who,
I inquire, is wise, that'is ignorant of himself?
I have never known a perwn disparage the va-
lue of phrenology, who was not unlearned in
10 A. VIEW OF
its principles, or prejudiced against its truth.
All the writings of metaphysical authors, how-
ever valuable they may be as testimonies of
the nicety of thought and of the power of the
human intel1ect, leave us almost in total dark-
ness regarding the composition of the mental
faculties. The perusal of these authors has,
however, some advantage; and1 at present, a
person who has never turned his attention to
subjects of this kind, can hardly be regarded
as a man of lmowledge and learning. Locke,
in my opinion, is decidedly the best of these
writers in the English language, nor am I
conscious he has any superior in any other.
Neither Reid nor Stewart has improved upon
him on the whole, though in sorpe particulars
of no great importance it may be conced-
ed they have ,brought forward some useful
thoughts. Brown was a man of greater depth
and reach of thought than either Reid or
Stewart; but it may be doubted if he has es-
sentially improved the cause of true know-
ledge. These authors have all failed in their
researches, because they neglected the mate-
rial organization of the brain and nervous sys-
tem. They have merely drawn from the foun-
tain oftheir own consciousness, at'd such streams
can never extend to the real fertilization of the
mental field. Phrenology, on the other hand
is founded upon the simple fact, now scarce};
PHRENOLOGY. 11
denied or doubted, that the brain is the organ
of the mind, or, more correctly, that it is a con-
geries of organs, each one of which is subser-
vient to a particular function.
Phrenology does not assert that the mind is
material, or that it cannot exist and act sepa-
rate from the body. It only states, that, while
united with the body, it employs material or-
galls for its manifestation. It is impossible to
define the nature of the soul, or to decide upon
its duration by scientific research. Would we
know the truth on these recondite subjects, we
must consult a higher source; and by faith in
divine revelation, we have our desires gratified
in the most satisfactory manner.
For my own part, I believe the soul and spi-
rit dwell in clay until the death of the material
frame, and then are not found naked, but im-
mediately are "clothed upon" with a spiritual
body, or inhabit a " house not made with
hands, but eternal in the heavens," there to
abide, as enduring as the days of t>ternity, and
as blessed as the beatitude of God. l speal{,
of course, of those who are justified, sanctified,
and saved.
We may then believe that the mind uses the
eye to see, the ear to hear, the hand to feel: and
the brain to think; and, if so, why not one
part of the brain to enjoy the pleasures of
friendship, another part to raise the emotion of
12 A VIEW OF
benevolence, and still another to qnicken the
energy of resentment?
The brain is, therefore, a congeries of or-
gans: these are numerous and multiform:
phrenology collects and arranges them in three
great classes. The first class embraces those
organs which give rise to the animal propensi-
ties, and are nine in number. The second
class contains those of the moral feelings or
sentiments, nine or ten in number. The third
class comprehends the intellectual organs or
faculties, which are subdivided into the know-
ing and the reflecting organs. Generally
speaking, we say, the animal propensities are
situated in the lower and posterior parts of the
head, the moral sentiments in the superior la-
teral parts, and the intellect in front. All arise
from the medulla oblongata at the base of the
scull, and are mostly extended to the surface
of the cranium. Having indulged in these
preliminary remarks, we shall now proceed to
mention the various organs in their order, and
shall briefly notice their functions and con-
nexions. It should be remembered that they
are all double, that is to say, that one of each
name exists on either side of the brain. The
brain is divided into two hemisphet·es by the
falx, a.nd the opposite sides are connected by
commtssures.
But this rather belongs to the anatomy of
PHRENOLOGY, 13
the brain, of which we cannot speak particu-
larly at present.
CLASS I.-PROPENSITIES.
No. I.-AMATIVENE SS.
This is the organ of sexual love. The cere~
bellnm is its seat at the lower and posterior
part of the head. It is very small in children,
attains its full size between the ages of four-
teen and twenty-four, and in old age often
diminishes. It is less in females than in males.
Dr. Spurzheim says, " It is impossible to unite
a greater number of proofs in demonstration of
any natural truth, than may be presented to
determine the function of the cerebellum."
This organ exerts an influence manifestly be-
neficial, giving rise to politeness an rl mutual
good feeling between the sexes. Like the
other faculties, it is liable to abuse. There
is a connexion between this portion of the
brain and the eyes, so that these sometimes
convey all necessary intelligence from the lover
to the beloved object.
No. 11.-PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
This long namP- simply imports love of off-
spring. The attachment of several species, in-
2
14 A VIEW OF
deed of most species, of animals to their
young, is worthy of admiration. The instinct
of nature, as it has been called in them, is
but another name for the activity of this or-
gan. · The love of children is innate, arising,
not from reason, nor from a sense of duty, but
spontaneously. It is larger in females than
in males, among all classes of animal exist-
ence. It was discovered and established by
Dr. Gall. Sometimes it has been deranged;
and women under this derangement have ima-
gined themselves mothers, nurses, &c. Were
it not for the exercise of this faculty, the con-
dition of helpless infancy would be truly de-
plorable. It is situated in the posterior ex-
tremity of the cranium, above the first-men-
tioned organ.
No. III.-CoNCENTRATIVENEss OR INHABI-
TIVENESS.
Dr. Spurzheim observed this part to be large
in those animals and persons who seem attached
to particular places, and hence named it inha-
bitiveness, or sense of habitation. Mr. Combe
observed that some persons possess a natural
faci~ity of .concentrating their thoughts . and
feelmgs, Without the tendency to distraction
by the intrusion of ideas, or emotions foreign
PHREl'fOLOGY. 15
to the subject under consideration; and find-
ing this portion large in such persons, has
called it concentrativeness. Dr. Spurzheim
does not :ldmit this power of continued atten-
tion as a primitive faculty, but supposes each
organ to have the power within itself of direct-
ing its own attention. The truth may be, that
this organ comprises two faculties, and that
one part of it is concerned in inhabitivenesst
and is large in birds of severall<inds, and also
in animals, while another part is the source of
the power of intense attention, as supposed by
Mr. Combe ; and if this be true, the difference
can be readily reconciled. Nothing but ob-
servation can decide the question. Abstruse
reasoning is not admitted as proof in our sci-
ence, which is built upon induction. It lies
above philoprogenitiveness and between the
organs of adhesiveness.
No. IV.-ADHESIVENESS.
When very large, two anular protube-
rances will be found above philoprogenitive-
ness, near the lamdoidal suture. If the
neighbouring organs are large, then only a
general fulness will be observable. " This
faculty gives rise to the instinctive feeling of
attachment, and causes us to experience the
greatest delight in a return of affection.n It
16 A VIEW OF
prompts to attachment, even to inanimate
things ;-hence the love of the girl for her
doll, and the devotion ofthe adult for his coun-
try and familiar institutions and manners.
Patriotism is a compound emotion, and em-
braces benevolence, conscience, and fortitude.
]\'Iorbidly acute, it produces home-sickness and
country-sickness in those who are banished
from their native land and the home of their
youth. The soldier on the field of battle dies
remembering his home, and sweet recollec-
tions of his distant country return to his mind,
with mingled sw~etness and regret. This organ
is larger in women than in men. Those in
whom it is largely developed, become mutually
good friends, while those in whom it is deficient
may have many acquaintance, but they will
never enjoy the delights of pure friendship. In
the inferior -animals, as the dog, for instancE',
it exists oftentimes very strongly marked. It
is the boud of union, and canses animals to
herd together, and maintains harmony and
peace.
No. V.-Col\1BATIVENESS.
This is the propensity that leads to combat.
~ t.hink it .can ~e better un.derstood by viewing
1t m relatiOn with destructiveness. It is placed
partly behind the ear and above the mastoid
process.
PHRENOLOGY. 17
o. VI.--DBSTRUCTIVENESS.
Above the orifice of the ears, giving the
disposition to destroy. Combativeness in-
spires courage, and, when properly directed
and controlled by the moral and mental
powers, enables us to maintain the right and
the truth. It is indispensable to the form-
ation of an energetic character. Its undue
excitement leads to war; ·\-Varlike nations have
combativeness and destructiveness large. Com-
bativeness gives resolution to meet danger
unappalled, and to resist it; destructiveness
renders the onset perilous and terrible. Com-
bativeness enables us to encounter difficulty,
and, having overcome it, is satisfied; destruc-
tiveness prompts us to exterminate our adver-
saries. Destructiveness gives energy to the
will, and, if combined with firmness, results in
persevering activity in the pursuit of any ob-
ject.
Children frequently exhibit the possession of
destructiveness and of combativeness. Their
fondness for soldiers and warlike display,
and their tendency to destroy their playthings,
are evidences of the activity of these organs.
In men, these faculties give the propensity to
witness battles, either of other men, or of the
inferior animals. To destructiveness must be
2~
18 A VIEW OF
attributed the desire to see a fellow being .suf-
fer the extreme penalty of human law; and
I am sorry to add, this desire is by no mean~
confined to the stronger sex. This has been
regarded as unaccountable. Phrenology re-
veals the cause of the. fact, which is too noto-
rious to be disputed. Destructiveness is large
in wilful murderers, and therefore was at first
calle,d tbe organ of murder. Now phrenolo-
gists ask for facts. If the science be not
true, certainly it would not be difficult to pre-
sent one case in which murder had wilfully
been committed by a person of comparatively
small destructiveness and large benevolence,
with ~n ordinary endowment of the mental
and moral faculties. Such a case, however,
never has been adduced! If we compare the
head of an herbivorous animal with that of a
carnivorous one, we shaH at Qnce perceive how
much the head of the latter exceeds in size the
head of the former at this particular part of
the brain.
The pleasure taken by the ancient Romans
in gladiatorial games depended upon their
large destructive organs. The spectators were
by no means the refuse of the people, but the-
intelligent and the illustrious composed no
small portion of the admiring and almost en-
raptured assembly. Even the vestal virgins
had their appropriate seats, and all classes
PHRENOLOGY, 19
seemed equally to enjoy the bloody spectacle.
'l'~he agony and death both of men and beasts
contributed to the general excitement. Mo-
dern civilization has abolished these cruel-
ties.
No. VII.-CoNs'rRucTIVENEss.
This is the faculty of construction. It is an
essential ingredient in, mechanical ingenuity.
It gives birds the capacity for building nests,
and beavers their wonderful instinct in con-
structing their convenient habitations. Com-
bined with ideality and causality large, it
bestows the taste for ornamental architec-
ture. Neither the hand nor the employment of
any tool or instrument will supply the deficien-
cy ofsize in this organ. They are not the pow·
er, but simply the means by which architectu-
ral designs, originating in this faculty, are car-
ried into execution. It seems to be altogether
wanting in such animals as make no attempts
at building or any kind of construction. It
lies in front of destructiveness, and is covered
by a consid;rable mass of flesh or muscle, for
which due allowance should be made in esti-
mating its size.
20 A VIEW OF
No. VIII.-ACQUISITIVENESS.
At first this was denominated the organ
of theft, or pt·opensity to steal. This being
only the abuse of the faculty, the name was
changed to the present very appropriate ap-
pellation. The function of it is the desire to
accumulate.
When properly restrained and directed by
the higher faculties, it leads to frugality and
well-ordered economy. When uncontrolled
and of high activity, it hurries its votary into
dishonesty and shame. Some persons have
almost an irresistible propensity to steal, even
when their circumstances and rank in life
would seem to preclude all possibility of such a
crime. This organ is large in misers, and is
apt to increase with increase of years. For
the most part, it should be repressed in chil-
drP-n, but, unhappily, some endeavour to foster
selfishness, and to smother all generous feel-
ings in their offspring. Phrenologically speak-
ing, such parents repress the action of benevo-
lence, and stimulate acquisitiveness. This is
the reverse of what ought to occur. There
can be no danger that mankind sho.u]d be too
much disposed to deny themselves for the be-
nefit of others. Selfishness will grow and
spring with sufficient luxuriance, uncultivated,
PJIRENOLOGY. 21
and, like the poisonous upas, spread its baleful
vapour on all around. This organ is found
in several animals, as in the s~irrel tribe, and
in monkeys, and also in some mrds; hence do-
mesticated crows, &c. are often found to be ar-
rant thieves. Drs. Gall and Spurzheim present
us with many )nteresting anecdotes respecting
the organ under consideration. It is placed
somewhat behind and above constructive-
ness and ideality.
No. IX.-SECRETIVENRSS.
Immediately above destructiveness we find
this organ, which bestows the instinctive feel-
ing of desire to conceal our opinions, ac-
tions, and wishes. When too large, it leads
to hypocrisy. It is the organ of what is com-
monly called cunning. It contributes to
form a prudent character, and is an essential
ingredient in the constitution of human nature.
"It prompts," says Dr. Gall, "the general of
an army to use stratagem to deceive the ene-
my, while it leads him to conceal his move-
ments and enterprises, to make false attacks
and counterfeit marches." lVIanifestat~ons of
the faculty in the insane are described by au-
thors on that disease. The cunuing shown by
them in concealing their O\Yn state is ofte-n
truly asto1iishing.
22 A VIEW OF
CLASS H.-SENTIMENTS.
This class corresponds to the emotions of
metaphysicians. Some are common to man
with the inferior animals, and others are pecu-
liar or proper to man. These emotions or af-
fective powers are numerous ;-they do not
form ideas or think, but feel ; they are blind,
and require to be directed by the intellect en-
lightened by knowledge.
No. X.-SELF-ESTEEM.
It is situated at the summit of the poste-
rior part of the head : it inspires the feel-
ing of self-esteem and self-satisfaction, and,
when in excess, produces pride and arrogance.
A due endowment produces that degree of
complacency with our own character and va-
lue, which leaves the mind open to the enjoy-
ment of the bounties of Providence, and the
amenities of life. It aids in giving dignity in
the eyes of others, and restrains from low and
degrading vices, and thus is productive of ex-
cellent results. It is usually larg-e in states-
men and in conquerors. In so~ne animals,
such as horses, turkey cocks, &c., it is mani-
festly in operation. The noble steed shares
with his rider the pleasure and the pride, as.
PHRENOLOGY. 23
Pope says. When this part of the brain is
disordered, men imagine themselves frequently
to be princes, kings, &c. Some even fancy
themselves angelic or superhuman beings. It
was under thP. infiuenee of this infatuation that
Menecrates imagined himself the son of Jupiter,
and requested Philip, King of Macedon, that
he might receive divine honours. Philip, will-
ing to humour him, invited him to a feast, and
placed him at a table furnished with incense
while the other guests were entertained with
more substantial fare. At first he was highly
delighted; but, growing hungry, he felt himself
to be but a man, and withdrew in his. right un-
-derstanding. Thus Philip became a judicious
physician.
No. XI.-LovE oF APPROBATION.
Placed on each side of number X., and dif-
fering from it as vanity does from pride. It
bestows the desire to please and to be agreea-
ble. It is large in females, and is an ingre-
dient in an amiable character. If too large or
too active it occasions a fidgetty anxiety to
know what others will think and say of us.
Combined with large secretiveness it gives ori-
gin to unmeaning compliments. It is possessed
by the lower animals, and several of them evince
tol{ens of pleasure when caressed. Children are
24 A VIEW OJ'
commonly much influenced by it, and therefore
its proper direction and exercise require great
attention on the part of parents and teachers.
It is a powerful motive of action, and should be
directed, therefore, to pursuits truly noble and
beneficent. Never should it be allowed to
supersede the rlictates of reason or the appro-
bation of conscience. Public applause highly
gratifies this feeling in those who have it large,
and some require no other reward for serYices
reudered to the public. It is generally large
in popular public speakers, and is perhaps a
necessary stimulus to the orator. It affords
a meo.ns. of government in the education of
children, and needs constant address on the part
of educators, lest, on one hand, it be immode-
rately gratified, and be made to "grow on what
it feeds on," and, on the other, lest it be too much
crossed and outraged by injudicious treatment,
or unmerited reproach.
No. XIL-CAUTIOUSNESS.
·This lays the foundation of the cardinal
~irtue of pn~dence.. Someti~nes it degenerates
Into coward1ce. It IS large m children· hence
their timidity, which is not unfrequen'tly ag-
gravated by the frightful tales told them of
witches, ghosts, and robbers. I am confident
that I have found this portion of the brain
l'HRENOLOG Y. 25
diseased, and gtvmg rise to mehmcholy and
low spirits, attended with an indefinable kind
of dread or anticipation of evil. It lies partly
over number V. and IX., and occupies the cen-
tre of the parietal bone.
No. XIII.-BENEVOLENCE.
Its name indicates its function. Si!_uated
at the upper part of the frontal bone, and form-
ing the summit of the forehead. It is a
source of happiness to the possessor-making
him realize the "luxury of doing good." Li-
berality of sentiment flows from it, as from a
fountain. Adhesiveness gives us individual
attachments, but benevolence binds us to our
species, and produces kindness towards all men.
It exists in the lower auimals, and, when large,
renders them geutle and docile. It can be re-
cognised in the horse, by a fulness in the centre
-of the forehead. Horses which are deficient
in this organ will be ill-tempered and vicious.
It is sometimes morbidly excited in man, and a
wasteful expenditure and giving away of pro-
perty is often the first symptom of insanity.
3
26 A VIEW OF
No. XIV.-VENERATION.
At the middle of the coronal aspect of the
head. It prompts to the feeling of rever~nce
towards superior beings. This fee1ing is innate.
Nations the most savage and unenlightened
have some idea of a superior power, and fol-
low some form of religious worship. " It is,"
as Dr. Gall observes, "an indirect proof of the
existence of God." The Creator has bestowed
it, and is himself the proper object of its exer-
cise. This organ also produces the feeling of
awe on viewing ancient majestic works of art.
The lofty mountain, the deep valley, the yawn-
ing abyss, anu the mighty cataract, call it
into activity. When misdirected, it leads to
superstition. It is usually largest in females.
No. XV.-HoPE.
This is located on each side of firmness,
and inspires delightful anticipation of the fu-
ture. It gil~s ~nd ado~ns every prospect.
Large and.actt~e 111 yo.uth, Its possessors spring
forward w1th vigour 111 the race of life, and
are only repressed by the hard lessons of ex-
perience. It has been sung by the poets and
rejoiced in by all. Deprived of this fa~ulty
life would he a blank, and existence a curse.
PHRENOLOGY. 27
No. XVI.-IDEALITY.
This is the organ of poetry. It is on the
side of the head above VII. It is found
large in celebrated poets, and in many po-
pular orators. Those in whom it is small
can ·scarcely form any conception of its true
function. It inspires enthusiasm and ardom~
in pursuit of the beautiful and romantic. It
Jelig hts in imaginary excellence.
WoNDER is in the neighbourhood of the
above organ, !Jut is not numbered in Mr•.
Combe's plates. Dr. Spurzheim regards it
as established, calling it marvellousness, and
we have numbered it XXXIV. It disposes
mankind to admire, to be astonished, and to
believe in ghosts and supernatural events. It
lies in front ofhope, and obliquely above ideality.
Those who have it very large are disposed to see
apparitions.
No. XVII.-CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
Upwards from No. XII. and backwards
from No. XV. The discovery of this organ
is attributed with justice to Dr. Spurzheim.
It is the organ of conscience. When mis-
directed, it may make a conscience of unim-
portant matters, when very deficient, honesty
and fidelity will be wanting~ Philosophers
28 A VIEW OF
have been divided in opinion whether man has
any conscience naturally, or moral sense at all.
Conscientiousness requires to be enlightened
and instructed. It were as absurd to suppose
man destitute of a faculty to feel moral differ-
ences, and then attempt instructing him in mo-
rality, as to endeavour to impart a knowledge
of the various colours of the rainbow to a per-
son totally destitute of eyes.
No. XVIII.-FIRMNESS.
It is at the top of the head between self-
esteem and veneration. It bestows decision
of character. Perseverance in enterprise and
coolness in danger attend him who possesses
it large. In excess, it leads to self-will and
obstinacy. In deficiency, it lt>aves us a prey
to circumstances, and renders us fickle and
changeable.
.lVote.-The faculties ofveneration, hope, ide-
ality, with wonder and conscientiousness, have
been regarded as peculiar to man, and as con-
stituting the superiority of his moral nature.
Mr. Combe says, these convolutions of the
brain are entirely wanting in the inferior ani-
mals. On this subject I entertain some doubts.
Do not animals exhibit firmness? and is not
even "dogged obstinacy" a proverbial expre~­
sion for unreasonabl~ self-wi1l? Does not the fear
PHRENOLOGY. 29
of man arise in some degree from an obscure
or rudimentary feeling of veneration towards
the lord of creation, as his own pride has called
him ? Does not the dog hope for the appro-
bation of his master, and the horse for rest
and refreshment after his daily labour; or are
these the operation simply of fear and the result
of habit? Is conscientiousness, or a sense of
right and wrong, altogether wanting? It seems
to me that it is chiefly, if not entirely, in the pos-
session of this last faculty that man is distin-
guished from the brute. I am inclined to believe
that animals have much more intelligence than
is usually attributed to them. Tint, after all,
these are mere speculations, and the inquiries
can be answered alone by experience.
CLASS III.-INTELLECTUAL FACPL-
TIES.
Before I p1·oceed to the enumeration and de-
scription of the organs which compose this
class of important endowments, it will be ne-
cessary to notice the organs of tbe senses, as
they are called. These are all external to the
brain, and brought into connexion with it by
means of appropriate nerves. External objects
are presented to these sensitive organs, and im-
pressio-
ns made upon them, or rather upon their
nerves, are transmitted to the brain, which
3*
30 A V1EW OY
forms ideas, or in other words perceives their
existence and properties. The internal organs
in the brain rea1ly take knowledge of these
external things, and reflect, or judge of theit·
relations-hence are subdivided into knowing
and reflecting organs.
The extemal senses are the eye, the ear, the
nostril, the tongue, and the skin. The eyes see,
the ears hear, the nostrils sme11, the tongue tastes,
and the skin feels. Thus, we have the sense of
sight-hearing-smelliug-tasting-and touch,
or feeling. All these are capable of improve-
ment, and are all iustruments or means by which
we are brought into relation with the external
·world. These alford inlets for knowledge,,
which is received, and digested, as it were, and
incorporated by the brain ; and thus eternity is
impressed upon knowledge. It becomes part
and parcel of the soul, and is therefore more
precious than rubies. '" Wisdom is the prin-
cipal thing."
PART I. oF CLASS III. -PERCEPTIVE FA-
CULTIES.
No. XIX.-INDIVIDUALITY.
This organ since its dtscovery has been
divided into individuality and eventuality.
When the upper portion of it, or eventuality,
PHRENOLOGY. 31
is large, it gives the power to observe facts
and occurrences with facility, and of remem-
bering them long and distinctly. ! ndividuality,
the lower portion, takes cognoscence of persons
and things. Together they confer a talent for
minute obiiervation-hsnce their importance to
the natural philosopher, to the chemist and the
historian. They enable the counsellor or advo-
cate to apprehend the \'arions topics of his argu-
ment, as wel1 as to recollect the statements ofhis
adversary or of the witness. These organs ought
to be well developed in the physician; accurate
observation of symptoms, &c. is indispensable
to his success. Persons who have these organs
large, and the reflecting organs deficient, may
acquire much learning, but will never become
profoundly wise. They may collect the thoughts
of others, but will not be deep thinkers them-
selves. They dwell on small circumstances and
minute events, but do not form broad, and en-
larged, and comprehensive views. These or-
gans are situated in the middle of the forehead,
extending upwards from the root of the nose.
No. XX.-FoRM.
,..fhis lies between the orbits of the eyes
at the root of the nose. It gives knowledge
of the configuration or form of bodies. It
is useful in the arts, especially in engraving,
32 A. VIEW OF
painting, sculpture, &c. Children wh?se eye
are widely separated are fond of drawmg, and
often show a talent for these employments.
No. X XL-SIZE.
It takes notice of the size and proportion
of bodies, gives capacity for per pective, ~11d
informs us of the relative distance of bod~es.
It is a small organ.
No. XXII.-"\VEIGHT.
This gives the sense of equilibrium, ;md
forms conceptions of the gravity of things.
It is affected iu intoxication, and probahly an
irritation commenced here is the primary link
in the chain of nausea or ea-sickness. \Yith
the last it is a small organ, <~nd lies in the viciuity
of the eyebrows, near the internal angle towards
the nose.
No. XXIII.-COLOURING.
The eyes do not conceive of colours, of
their harmony or discord. This organ , iew ·
the glorious spectacle produced by the va-
riety and arrangement of colours. Some
people, with no defect in their eyes, cannot
niscern the ditferences between colours. 1\lr.
PHRENOLOGY. 33
Combe gives several cases, and I have beard of
a gentleman who purchased and wore scarlet
pantaloons, supposing them to be drab. "The
faculty of colour is necessary to painters, ena-
mellers, aud to all who are in any way occupied
with colours. It is through its agency that we
are charmed with the beauty of the flower-gar-
den, and the variously tinted landscape, and
show good taste in the choice of colours for
our dress, and the furniture of our houses."
Its seat is about the middle of the eyebrow.
No. XXIV.-LOCALITY.
This imparts the power of recalling places
to the memory. It is large in emiment ma-
thematicians. Where it is deficient the person
is easily lost or bewildered. It is possessed
by the lower animals. Sheep and dogs fre-
quently return to their homes after having
been carried a long distance. The superior-
ity of one of Dr. Gall's companions in find-
ing places and remembering localities first
called his attention to this organ. It produces
desire to travel and see distant places. It is
above size, and extends to the middle of the
forehead on either side. It was very large m
Capt. Cook, the circumnavigator.
A VIEW OF
No. XXV.-ORDER.
This gives the love of arrangement.. It
is gratified when every thing is in its place,
and suffers when confusion 1·eigns. It is use-
ful to authors and orators. It is essential to
neatness. When too small, the affair£, the
clothes, and the furniture are never as they
should be-hence its importance to the femalet
and to the order and harmony of household
arrangements. It lies next to colour, over the
orbit and under the eyebrow.
No. XXVI.-TIME.
The ability to conceive of time, and of re-
membering circumstances connected by no
link but the order of succession, is the proper
function of this organ. Time in music is
recognised by the same faculty. The deaf
and dumb frequently can keep good time
in dancing, thereby ~roving that the hearing
is not the source of this power. It is a special
organ.
No. XXVII.-NUMERaTION.
The organ of number includes wba tver
relates to calculation, unity and plurality, &c.
I'HRI~NOLOG Y. 35
Remembrance of dates and of chronology
depends upon it. Those who have it small
cannot call to mind numbers, nor readily per-
form the operations of arithmetic. It is si-
tuated at the external angle of the eye.
No. XXVIII.-TuNE.
It is large in those fond of music, espe-
cially in those skilled in the art of musical pel'-
formances. The faculty of hearing in general
and this faculty are distinct. Those who can
hear acutely often are entirely destitute of
any relish for music, and incapable of distin-
guishing harmony from discord.
No. XXIX.-LANGUAGE.
This was the first organ discovered, and
its history and location have been already
given. It enables us to express our ideas
in words. It confers ability to learn differ-
ent languages. Those who are deficient in
this organ, although men of talent and of
information, make but a poor figure in the
world. Those, on the contrary, having it largely
developed with a good endowment ofthe know-
ing faculties, often pass for men ofgreater abi-
lities than they really are. It is usually large
in females. Dr. Spurzheim supposes it consists
A VIEW OF
of several portions, one of which is devoted to
proper names.
PART.II. OF CLASS IlL-REFLECTING FA-
CULTIES.
No. XXX.-CoMPARISON.
It gives capacity for perceiving resem-
blances, similitudes, and analogies. It takes
a wide range. It is highly useful to orators
and authors, enabling them to present their
subject in an attractive form, and to embel-
liiih it with beautiful or splendid illustrations,
especially if ideality be large. It is situated in
the upper middle part of the forehead. It is
more rarely deficient than any other of the re-
flecting organs. The Scriptures are replete
with comparisons, fi g ures, and similitudes. It
must have been large in the author of Pilgrim's
Progress.
No. XXXI.-CAUSALITY.
It prompts to inquiry respecting the cause
of phenomena, and thus leads us to admit
a great pr.imary Cause or D~ity.. The power
of reasonmg, and of drawmg mferences is
possess.e~ in very di!f~rent . degrees by differ-
ent individuals. Ind1v1duahty and comparison
PHRENOLOGY.
take cognisance ofthings, and causality searches
after the cause of their existence, relation, and
dependence. It is large and active in men dis-
tinguished for great mental power. Such were
Socrates, Bacon, Kant. This organ is the
fountain of resources. It enables us to apply
our knowledge, and confers the ability to think
deeply and to argue logically. Causality, in-
dividu!!lity, eventuality, cautiousness, and firm-
ness, form the stamina of true wisdom.
Some, it is true, pass for wise men, in whom
this organ is not very much developed; but,
when strictly examined, they will be fonnd to
be men of information, having large knowing
organs, rather than men of great sagacity.
They are clever and useful, but never give tone
to their age. They acquire information, and
if language be full, they can readily communi-
cate it to others, but are not original thinkers.
If the animal propensities are very large,
while the moral sentiments are deficient, and
causality large, the person so constituted
probably wi11 be a ringleader in iniquity. If
the propensities are moderate, the sentim€nts
small, and this organ full, the man wi1l be dis-
tinguished for mental ability, but his sincerity
and integrity may be questionable. If the pro-
pensities be moderate, the moral powers large,
and the knowing and reflecting organs abo
large, the individual so endowed wil1, unless
4
38 A VIEW OF
circumstances be very unfavourable indeed, at-
tain the full perfection of his nature. Moral
worth is as essential to true greatness as intel-
lectual ability. Causality lies just outside of
comparison.
No. XXXII.-WIT.
"Every body," says Mr. Combe, "knows
what is meant by wit, and yet no word pre-
sents more difficulty in its definition." The
moderate size and exercise of this organ in-
duces a current of pleasing thoughts through
the mind. It was first called "gayety," and
seems peculiar to man. Dr. Spurzbeim re-
garded it as a moral feeling rather than an
inte11ectua1 faculty; but the Scotch phrenologists
have classed it with comparison and causality.
By these gentlemen, especially by Mr. Scott,
comparison is supposed to take notice of simi-
larities and resemblances, and wit to be occupied
with differences and contrasts; while causality,
lying bet\veen them, judges of connexion and
causation ; and thus collectively the three are
considered the highest manifestation of intel-
lect. Accordingly, in the busts of celebrated
statesmen and philosophers, these organs, occu-
pying the superior portion of the forehead, are
represented large. Even the statues of heroes
and of the gods among the ancient Greeks aud
PHRENOJ.OGY. 39
Romans, possess this configuration. Whence
did this arise? Evidently from the study of
nature. Such men as were distinguished for
intellectual power were observed by artists to
have large foreheads, and as the gods were
supposed to excel men in understanding, they
likewise were represented with ample brow and
expanded front.
No. XXXIIL-IMITATION.
Children and the young of many animals
are prone to imitation. It is important, there-
fore, that children should have good exam-
ples set before them. This organ is large in
good mimics and actors. It is situated above
causality and next to benevolence externally.
When large, and benevolence also large, the
upper part of the forehead will be full and
handsomely rounded. This, in the monkey and
some other animals, appears as a propensity
rather than an intellectual faculty; and in man,
perhaps, it ought not to be regarded as an attain-
ment of the higher order of excellence.
.No. XXXIV.-WoNDER, see page 27.
tJSES OF PHRENOLOGY.
WE have passed in review the several organs,
and pointed out their specific functions-we
have seen that man is a compound being, not
only composed of body of various parts and
structur~.s, and of mind in a mysterious con-
nexion, but also that the mind itself embraces
several classes of faculties, and that each of
these faculties has its appropriate seat in the
brain. Such is phrenology! Some there
are who are ever ready to inquire, "what is the
use? where is the utility? &c." To such, and
all others, phrenologists reply, that TRUTH is
valuable for its own sake, and ought always to
be so considered. Knowledge of truth is not
only power, but happiriess,-not only a m~ans,
but an end. Here we might rest our defence,
but we are not without an answer of a different
1\:ind. I believe that the science is of immense
importnnce, and I will briefly point out some of
its uses.
Phrenology is of paramount importance in
its influence apon medicine, law, education,
and the general welfare of mankind.
In the treatment ofthe insane, a know]edo-e
.ofphrenology is absolutely indispensable. Tl~is
A VIEW OF PHRENOLOGY. 41
is now beginning to be understood. In most
forms of mania, one or more of the primitive
faculties are diseased, anrl phrenology explains
the seat of the lesion, and exhibits the nature
and extent ofthe operation, whose result is erro-
neous judgment or morbid feeling. Thus it
txnveils the true theory of insanity. Is not this
an important benefit? Who is there, having a
friend, brother, parent, suffering under tbis
dreadful malady, that could undervalue the
light which phrenology sheds upon mind, in
either its healthy or diseased state? Is it of no
use to be put in possession of such a means of
combating mental disorder, and of restoring
the insane to their friends, to their usefulness,
to themselves? Let the inmates of the lunatic
asylum answer. Imagine an interval in their
madne5s, in which this question should be put
to them, and what think you would be the
reply?
Nor is phrenology less important in a legal
point of view. The question of insanity is of-
ten involved in criminal proceedings. Surely,
every means of investigation, promising hope
of success, where the life of man is jeoparded,
should be hailed with joy, aud employed with
undel'standing and zeal. Sorue one faculty may
be diseased, while other faculties are in health-
ful exercise ; and we may be enabled, by an ac-
quaintance with this subject, to determine to
4')(!
A VIEW OF
what extent such partial derangement ought to
be a shield from punishment fiJr any crime com-
mitted in such circumstances. To deprive a
person of life, who is a suitable inmate of a
hmatic asylum, is revolting to every feeling o(
humanity. Here, then, our science appears
the friend of the most miserable and pitiable of
the human family. But this is not all. A
skilful phrenologist would be able to detect,
with a considerable degree of certainty, any
imposition that a knave or criminal might at-
tempt to make. Thus the ends ofjustice would
be answered. Not only criminal legislation,
but legislation of every kind, might receive
much assistance from a knowledge of the true
constitution of man. Political economy also
draws largely upon the stores of phrenolo·
gical truth, in its endeavours to promote the
best outward interests of man ; but I cannot
dwell upon this interesting relation of two
sciences.
Education will eventually owe much to phre:
nology. Physical education, which prepares
the body for activity and usefulness, demands
far more attention than it has hitherto received.
The mental powers should. not be too early
task.ed. Let ti:e young enJoy the springtide
of l1fe. Exercise, and sport, and play com-
pose not merely their delight, bnt best' good.
By exercise, their forms are expanded, their
-organic structure develDped; and their tnuscles
strengthened. Confinement to a sitting pos..
ture, and constant attention to books; are alto...
gether wrong, and utterly injurious. Moral
culture has not yet obtained that assiduous care
which its importance demands, Phrenology,
Naving discovered the mental and moral or...
gans, and having ascertained that they exist in
different relative propDrtions in different indivi..
duals, reveals the correct principle and plan of
education. Every child should be educated in
n.ccordance with his physical, moral, and intel-
lectual constitution. Some faculties require
J.'estraint, others to be urged into action. It is
absurd to endeavour to qualify children for
such stations in society as nature never in-
tended they should occupy. A uniform sys'-
tem of education is as ridiculous as it is nuga-
tory.
The knowing faculties should be directed
to the acquisition of information; and the re-
flecting f~culti·es he taught to compare; ana-
lyze, and determine. A person of great mus-
cular power and small mental endowment,
uught to be trained to hard labour. He is
fittP.d for it. It is his proper calling by the
voice of nature. He who possesses superior
moral worth, or mental greatness, with less
physical force, owes it to himself at~d to m~n­
ljnd to take the exalted place ass1gned h1m
44 A VIEW OF
I
in the scale of being, and to devote himself to
the cultivation and improvement of his fellow
creatures, in some department of usefuluess or
other.
The present system of education often re-
verses all this; it is of course absurd aud de-
trimental. Phrenology is destined, soon ~ or
]ate, to revolutionize the common course of
education, and to render man, physically, mo-
rally, and mentally pre-eminent in this lower
world. Compared with the present, of such a
consummation it may be said, that men will
become wiser and better-" NON DOCTIOR,
SED Il.VIBUTUS MELIORA DOCTRINA."
In conclusion, we may say, that phrenology
has unfolded to man his true character as a
moral and intellectual being, and has taught
him the important truth, that his highest hap-
piness, and best interest, as well as his reputa-
tion and consciousness of rectitude, lead him
to repress the animal propensities of his nature,
and to cultivate those nobler faculties, which
give him the dominion over the creatures, and,
to a considerable extent, the events which pass
before him. The Creator intended the moral
sentiments and tbe mental powers should have
the supremacy, and constituted man in such a
manner as to enable him, by the exercise of
these taleuts, to enjoy himself, w
·hilst he bene-
fits others. Thii is the true, 1be only true
rHRENOLOGY.
theory, of morality; and when it is well tm-
derstood, and diligently practised, the rich and
glorious imaginations of the poet and the phi-
lanthropist will be literally realized. Mankind
have hitherto supposed that their own interest
was to be purch.
ased at the expense of the wel-
fare of others, and have acted accordingly.
What wonrler, then. that violence, and strife,
and hloodshedt form so large a portion of the
history of the human race ! This error has
been adopted by the governments of the earth,
and is as mischievous in national diplomacy
as in the social circle. But a brightet· dawn
bas arisen upon the destiny of man, and he
will yet become wise and virtuous, and there-
fore happy~
DlH.~CTlU l~~
FOR
SURVEYING
.AND
MEASURING THE HEAD.
As it is believed that size bestows power in
proportion to its extent, it is necessary that
the relative size of the organs should be known.
From the situation of the various organs: as
already explained, and especially from a care-
ful examination of the plate, the learner can
readily recognise, in the heads of those whom
he may wish to examine, the proportion which
the animal propensities, the moral sentiments,
and the intellectual faculties, bear to each
other. If there is a greater quantity of brain
behind the ear than in front, and if the base of
the head is larger than the superior part, it
may be inferred that the lower faculties ot·
propensities predominate. If, measuring from
the hole of the ear to the top of the head, the
height be large, then the moral sentiments must
47
be well developed. If the space from the enr
to the eye-brows be long, the perceptive fa-
culties are large : and if the space from the
ear, not only to the eye-brows, but to the up-
per portion of the forehead, is large, and the
forehead broad, in this case the superior intel-
lectual faculties,-as comparison, causality, and
wit,-will be found in great power and perfec-
tion. The orifice of the ear, therefore, may be
regarded as the point of departure in a gene-
ral survey of the head. The absolute size of
the various organs may be ascertained by
means of calliper compasses, which will mea-
sure the distances of them from the medulla
oblongata, or that part of the brain in the base,
from which they all originate. The phrenolo-
gist also measures their width with a consider-
able degree of accuracy :-thus, ifthe organs
of ideality, for example, measure, across the
forehead, over five and a halfinches, they may
be considered large, or rather large.
The following expressions of size are em-
ployed,-viz. very small, small, full, rather
large, large, very large, according to the size
of the organs respectively.
