{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__zadkiel___grammar_of_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"Grammar Of Astrology","mylang":"de"}
5 3 1 £ /
THE
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
CONTAINING
ALL THINGS NECESSARY FOR
CALCULATING A NATIVITY
BY
COMMON ARITHMETIC.
By ZADKIEL THE SEER,
Author of the “ Herald of Astrology .”
DEDICATED TO SIR JOHN HERSCHELL, Bart. &c. &c.
LONDON
SHERWOOD, GILBERT, AND PIPER,
PATERNOSTER ROW.
1833.
COMPTON & RITCHIE, PRINTERS, MIDDLE STREET, CLOTH PAIR,
LONDON.
s\\
TO
SIR JOHN HERSCHELL, Bart.
&c. &e. &c.
SlR,
THE indefatigable industry of your highly
honoured father and yourself, to render the know-
ledge of Astronomy complete, must rank your names
among the benefactors of mankind in all after ages.
The great correctness with which the places of the
planets may now be calculated, offers a means of
examining into the truth or falsehood of the doctrines
of Astrology, which did not exist in the days of
your able predecessor in Astronomy, Kepler, who,
as you are aware, was one of the great men who
have believed in and studied Astrology. The intent
a 2
IV DEDICATION.
of this work being to open the way to a more genera!
knowledge of that ancient but at present little-
known science* I have thought I could not do better
than connect it with the name of one of the first
philosophers of my own day. With the highest
respect* I beg leave then* Sir* to dedicate to you this
Elementary Essay on the Science of Nativities.
I am not aware what your own opinions on the
art of foreseeing future events by the heavenly
bodies may be ;
but if you should choose to amuse
yourself* or unbend from your severe studies by
examining it for yourself* the present work* I believe*
will give you a ready means. In that case* I would
recommend as a first effort* the Nativity of Prince
George of Cumberland* as the time of birth*
having been particularly well noted* and published
by authority, may be considered authentic. The
figure of the heavens at Berlin for the moment of
DEDICATION. v
the young prince’s birth, and the places of the
planets at the time, were carefully calculated and
published by me in the “ Herald of Astrology for
1832 and you will observe. Sir, that the Moon
being in close square aspect to the evil planet Mars,
together with other circumstances, has, in strict
accordance with the rules of the science* caused the
royal native to become blind. And it is worthy of
especial notice, that, on the very day the prince had
the misfortune to receive a blow in one eye (14th
September, 1832), which has eventually led to the
loss of sight, the Moon was on the place of Mercury
at birth, and at the last birth-day ;
on which birth-
day the Moon was on the place of Mars at birth,
and the Sun in square aspect to Saturn : these,
together with other exact agreements with the
rules of Ptolemy, occur in this royal and authentic
nativity. To common minds they may appear
accidental coincidences ;
but to your superior un-
VI DEDICATION.
derstanding, as you are,, of all men, best aware of
bow little we know of the immensity of the universe,
or the objects or modus operandi of many of its
magnificent parts, they will, I hope, appear to
deserve farther consideration.
I remain. Sir,
Your very obedient Servant,
THE AUTHOR.
PREFACE.
The science of Astrology consists of four
branches, or distinct parts, which are essen-
tially different from each other: they are—1,
Nativities,
or the art of foreseeing, from the
figure of the heavens at the moment of birth,
the future fate and character of individuals ;
2, Mundane Astrology,
or the art of foreseeing
by the positions of the heavenly bodies at cer-
tain periods, the circumstances of nations, such
as wars, pestilences, inundations, earthquakes,
&c. &c. ; 3, Atmospherical Astrology,
or the
art of foreseeing by the positions of the planets
at the periods of the Sun and Moon being in
mutual aspect, and some other circumstances,
the quality of the weather at any required time
or place ; 4, Horary Astrology ,
or the art of
foreseeing by the positions of the heavens at
any period when an individual may be anxious
PREFACE.
viii
about the matter, the remit of any business or
circumstance whatever.
The Grammar of Astrology is intended
to teach the principles of the science of nati-
vities, and to render them so plain, by divesting
them of the trash which designing or ignorant
men have introduced, that persons of an ordi-
nary capacity and a common share of industry,
may examine and decide for themselves,whether
there be any truth in astrology or not. To those
who consider it sufficient to decide without
examination, merely because others have de-
cided before them, this work has no recom-
mendation, inasmuch as the gauntlet of argu-
ment is not thrown down. But to those who
think experience a safer guide than reason in
natural philosophy, it will be peculiarly accept-
able ;
as herein they will find the briefest
possible rules and the best decided principles
for judging, which have yet appeared before
the world, as far as the author is capable of
forming an opinion from many years’ experience
and the examination of many hundred nativities.
If the present haughty style of declaiming
against a science which the greatest men have
PREFACE. ix
taken a pride to cultivate in all ages and all
countries, should, by this endeavour to open a
clear path to its examination, receive a check,
such as the power of truth only can offer to
the headstrong course of prejudice, it will not
have been written in vain ; and if the cause of
truth should thereby be assisted, either through
public demonstration by the test of experiment
of the utter fallacy of the doctrines of Astrology,
or, on the other hand, by the conviction of the
honest portion of mankind that the Almighty
does, indeed, choose the heavenly bodies as the
instruments of his will in bringing about the
ends of Providence ;
this little wr
ork will very
well bear the lash of critics, whose pride will
not believe that “ There are more things in
Heaven and Earth than are dreamed of in their
philosophy.”
In perfect but humble confidence in the pu-
rity of his intentions in endeavouring to gain a
hearing for Astrology, the Author can contem-
plate with perfect calm the bitterness of abuse
of some men who call themselves, par excellence
philosophers ;
since he knows that there are
many who will soar above prejudice, and resolve
X PREFACE.
on seeing with their own eyes. To them he
begs to dedicate the fruits of his labour, and
to remind them—if they would, indeed, be cer-
tain whether the influence of the stars is a
chimera or a reality —of the words of the great
Bacon,—;fiat experimentum.
If this work be well received, which, from the
number of applications already made to my
Publishers, and other circumstances, I have no
doubt of, I shall prepare elementary works on
the other branches of the science.
ZADKIEL THE SEER.
N.B. To those who wish to pursue the science
farther, I recommend the Tetrabiblos of Pto-
lemy and the Primum Mobile of Placidus.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BOOK THE FIRST.
Page
Chap. I.... ..The alphabet
Chap. II. . . .The signs of the zodiac
Chap. 111. . . .The natures of planets 8
Chap. IV... . .Of the aspects 16
Chap. V. . . . .The qualities of the aspects . .
Chap. VI .. . .Of the figure of the heavens. . 23
Chap. VII.. . .Of the twelve houses of heaven 25
Chap. VIII. <> .To erect a figure of the heavens at birth 27
Chap. IX ,. To find the planets’ latitudes, declina-
tions, &c
Chap. X To judge the future fate by the figure
of the heavens at the moment of birth 44
Chap. XI. . , .To judge of the effects of directions.. 63
Chap. XII... .Of mundane aspects and directions.... 68
Chap. XIII.. Of the mundane parallels 71
Chap. XIV.. .Of the Part of Fortune . . 72
Chap. XV....Of the hyleg and the hylegiacal places 75
BOOK THE SECOND.
Chap. I Zodiacal directions 77
Chap. II To direct © to any aspect in the zodiac,
except a parallel 78
Chap. III... .To direct © to a parallel in the zodiac 85
Chap. IV. . . .To direct ]) in the zodiac to any aspect
except a parallel 88
Chap. V. To direct J)
to parallels of declinations 93
Chap. VI To direct the ascendant to aspects in the
zodiac 95
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
xu
Chap. VII..
Chap. Vlll.
Chap. IX...
Chap. X. ..
Chap. XI. ...
Chap. XII..
Chap. XIII.
Chap. XIV..
Chap. XV..
Chap. XVI
Chap. XVII,
Chap. XVITI
Chap. XIX.,
Page
, .To direct the mid-heaven to aspects in
the zodiac ... * 98
. . Of mundane directions to the angles, that
is, to the ascendant or M. C 99
, .To direct © or ]) to any aspect in the
world (except parallels), by converse
motion 105
..To direct © or ]) to any aspect in
mundo (except parallels) by direct
motion 109
, .To direct © or J) to mundane parallels,
converse ..Ill
, .To direct © or ]) to mundane parallels,
direct l\S
.To direct © or ]) to parallels in mundo,
that is, to parallel distances from the
meridian by rapt motion, called rapt
parallels ....... ...114
.Of directions to the Part of Fortune .. .119
. Of turning the arc of direction into time,
to learn at what age its effects will be
felt 121
.Of secondary directions ..122
.Of revolutions, lunations, transits, Ac. 124
, .To rectify the estimated time of birth to
find the true time 128
.A judgment for marriage in the nativity
of Lord Byron’s daughter * * .135
ABBREVIATIONS.
A. R. signifies Right Ascension.
Asc.
M. C. ..
Mer. Dist.
S. S. Q.
S. ..
The Ascendant.
The Medium Coeli or Mid-heaven.
The Meridian Distance.
A Sesquiquadrate aspect.
A Semi-quartile aspect.
INTRODUCTION.
It is not intended here to enter upon any laboured
argument to prove the antiquity of the science of
the Stars ;
it is enough for my present purpose
(which is to teach the mere outline of the art, which
may be filled up as the student has inclination) if I
state that Astrology existed for many centuries
prior to the Christian era, about which time it
appears to have been taught chiefly by tradition,
being handed down from father to son by word of
mouth, as the art of palmistry now is among the
gipsies. There is no good evidence of any perfect
system of Astrology having been reduced to written
rules, depending on mathematical principles, before
the first century ;
though Sir Isaac Newton admits,
in his Chronology, that it was in existence nearly
900 years before that period. Somewhere about
the year 133, or as nearly as possible 1700 years
before this present year 1833, that celebrated astro-
nomer,geographer, and astrologer, Claudius Ptolemy,
XIV INTRODUCTION.
compiled his notable work entitled “ The Tetra-
biblos, or Quadripartite, being Four Books of
the Influence of the Stars*.” In this work he
seems to have collected all that appeared of impor-
tance to him which was then known of the science ;
but as Ptolemy did not devote the whole of his
time to this study, which, however, would require
the entire application of any man’s time to make
himself thoroughly and entirely master of it, we
may fairly suppose that some of the less important
rules had not been tested by him personally, but
were merely adopted as the current opinions of the
day. This accounts for a few of his doctrines being
in some degree erroneous ;
although the majority of
them are true to nature, and, if rightly understood,
never did or can fail, while the system of the uni-
verse remains unchanged.
The principles of Ptolemy’s doctrine do not
appear to have been ever clearly understood, or
acted upon free from the superstitious trash of the
Arab writers before the years 1647 and 1657, when
* Translated by J. M. Ashmand.
INTRODUCTION. xv
Placidus de Titus, a Spanish monk, first published
the true system of astrology founded on Ptolemy’s
mathematical calculations. His principal work
was printed in Latin, and called the Primum
Mobile, or First Mover, translated by J. Cooper.
It is remarkable that the only subsequent works of
any value on that part of astrology which is of
most importance, nativities, were written by an
Englishman, Mr. Partridge, whose Almanack is still
in existence. His works, the Opus Reformatum and
the Defectio Geniturarum, are evidently made up
from Placidus; but they are full of the soundest
doctrines, and contain numerous examples.
No good translation of Placidus appeared in
English until that made by Mr. John Cooper in
1816; nor did any copy of Ptolemy’s book, from
which all we know of Astrology is originally derived,
until 1822, when Mr. Ashmand’s excellent work
appeared. The interest taken in the science has
already called for another translation of the great
master, which Mr. Wilson has recently published.
This gentleman published a very useful and clever
XVI INTRODUCTION.
work, called the “Dictionary of Astrology/’ in
1819, but it is rather dogmatical. The old tran-
slations of Ptolemy and Placidus, especially those
by Dr. Sibly, are detestable, and have made nu-
merous erring astrologers, and done the science
infinite injury. All the host of English astrologers,
such as Lilly, Colley, Sibly, Gadbury, White, &c.
were immersed in error when they treated on nati-
vities
;
they embraced the follies of the Arabian
astrologers, which consisted in mixing up the system
of divination, called horary questions, with the ge~
nethliacal art, or the science of nativities ;
and those
who open any of their works only lose their time.
In short, there exists no brief, cheap, elementary
work on the science ;
which numbers require who
would willingly learn it if they knew how to begin
:
such the Grammar of Astrology will become. It is
intended to be clear to the commonest capacity, and
to contain nothing that is not founded on actual
experience.
Grammar of astrology
FIRST BOOK.
CHAP. I.
THE ALPHABET.
This consists of twelve characters, which represent
the twelve Signs of the Zodiac they are these
Northern.
W Aries 25 Cancer
& Taurus Leo
n Gemini ti^ Virgo.
Southern.
=*= Libra Capricorn
1U Scorpio zz Aquarius
f Sagittary X Pisces.
Also of eight others, which represent the Planefa,
as follow :
—
y Herschel
T? Saturn
% Jupiter
$ Mars
0 Sol, the Sun
? Venus
$ Mercury
D Luna, the Moon.
And five others, which represent the Aspects, or
positions which these planets bear to each other, as
follow : —
Conjunction, or when two planets are in the same
place.
* Sextile, or when they are 60 degrees or two signs
apart.
B
2 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
Square, or when they are 90 degrees or three
signs apart.
A Trine, or when they are 120 degrees or four signs
apart.
8 Opposition, or when they are 180 degrees or six
signs asunder.
N.B. There are also some other aspects, called the
new aspects, because unknown to the ancients : they
were discovered by the great Kepler, one of the ablest
astrologers of modern date, and are as follow :
—
The Semi-Sextile or 30 degrees, the Semi-Square or
45 degrees, Sesquiquadrate or 135 degrees, and the
Quintile or 72 degrees, mud Biquintile or 144 degrees.
The power of these is not so great as that of the old
aspects. The Moon’s nodes are thus marked-—
Q
north, £5 south. Lastly, there is another character,
which is called the Part of Fortune ®.
The learner should practise writing the cha-
racters,
and become well acquainted with the
signs which are opposite to each other.
CHAP. II.
THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC.
It is presumed that the reader has, at least, a
common-place knowledge of the nature of the zodiac
and the solar system, which may be acquired in a
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 3
few hours by perusing any common school book on
astronomy ;
therefore, I will at once proceed to
describe the astrological nature of the signs.
These may be divided into north and south. The
first six, from Aries to Virgo, are northern the latter
six, from Libra to Pisces, are southern this is be-
cause the Sun and planets, when in the first six, are
north of the equator, and when in the last six, they
are south of that line. When the Sun is in northern
signs he is longer above the Earth than below, and
the days are longer than the nights ;
when he is in
the southern signs, he remains longer below the
horizon than above, and the nights are longer than
the days.
Of course, when any other planet is in a north sign
it remains longer above the Earth than below ;
and,
vice versa, when it is in a south sign its stay is longer
helowr
the Earth.
Each point of the zodiac rises and sets once every
24 hours, occasioned by the Earth turning round on
its axis once every day ;
therefore, when any given
point be rising, the opposite point must be setting.
As the zodiac consists of 360 degrees from the
first point of Aries until you come to that point again
and as these are divided into 12 portions or signs,
they must consist of 30 degrees each. It is found that
each of these signs, when it arises at the birth of an
individual, possesses a certain influence or secret
power to produce a particular form of body, and
b 2
4 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
some peculiar mental inclinations. There is no
reason to suppose* however* that the influence of
Aries* or any other sign* proceeds merely from that
sign alone ;
but it is more probable that when that
sign is rising the whole face of the heavens is such
as to produce a certain effect. This may be caused
as much by the distant stars in the milky way (that
large shining band seen in the heavens on a fine
night* which consists of innumerable millions of stars*
and of which our sun is supposed to be one) as by
any others. In fact* Ptolemy speaks of these effects
being produced by the “ ambient*” which means the
entire of the heavens, and not the ascending sign
alone.
GENERAL RULE FOR JUDGING THE EFFECT OF
EACH SIGN.
Aries.—This sign produces a dry* lean body* middle
stature* strong limbs* large bones* long and meagre
face* sharp sight* neck rather long and scraggy*
dark eyebrows* swarthy complexion* hair reddish
and wiry ;
disposition angry and violent as the
Ram.
Taurus. —A short* full* well-set person ;
full face
and eyes, thick neck and lips* wide nose and
mouth* swarthy shining face* a short* thick* broad
hand; dark* harsh* and generally curling hair.
Given to eating* unfeeling, melancholy and slow
to anger* but when enraged furious as the BidL
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 5
Gemini. —A tall, upright, well-made body, with good
carriage, long arms, but hands and feet generally
short and fleshy; hair blackish, eyes hazel, and
h aving a sh arp, quick, penetrating look : if a female,
she has very flne eyes, body strong and active,
step smart and quick ;
understanding good ;
ima-
gination powerful; said to beget or bear Twins.
Cancer. A short, small person invariably ; with pale,
sickly complexion, round full face, and generally
small features ;
sad brown hair, small grey eyes ;
the upper part of the body larger than the lower
constitution weakly : if a female, prolific. Dull
and timid as the Crab.
Leo.—A large noble person ;
full, tail stature, well
proportioned ; shoulders broad and well set, hair
yellowish and bushy ;
eyes large and staring, yet
quick sighted; countenance fierce; head round;
complexion ruddy ;
step firm and majestic ;
dispo-
sition free and courteous ;
heart bold and courage-
ous as the Lion.
Virgo.—Middle stature, inclined to be tall ;
slender
figure, neat and well formed; dark brown hair;
dark complexion, well favoured, but not hand-
some ;
face more round than oval ;
voice weak and
unmusical; mind ingenious; pleasant in conver-
sation ;
given to study ;
fond of learning ;
but
fickle— and bashful as a Virgin. \
Libra.—Tall and elegantly formed, rather slender
hair smooth, and a light auburn or flaxen ;
face
6 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
round and lovely,, having great beauty; fine, clear
red and white complexion, which in old age be-
comes pimpled; eyes generally blue and beautiful
;
mind well principled ;
temper even as the Balance.
Scorpio.—
T
hick, well-set, middle sized person;
strong and robust; face somewhat broad and
square ;
complexion dusky ;
hair dark brown,
curling, bushy and plentiful ;
thick neck ;
coarse
hairy legs, often bow-legged or club-footed, or ill-
made feet ;
mind thoughtful, reserved ;
active and
deceitful as the Scorpion.
Sagittarius. —
W
ell-formed person, rather tall;
strong active body ;
rather long face and hand-
some, with generally a straight Grecian nose ;
fine
clear eyes, and good fresh-coloured complexion
;
chesnut coloured hair, growing off the temples;
inclined to baldness ;
daring and intrepid, fond of
horses and hunting.
Capricorn.—
S
hort, slender, ill-formed person ;
long
thin face ;
generally ugly ;
chin long and pointed ;
thin beard ;
neck long and small ;
hair black and
lanky; narrow breast; weak in the knees, with
crooked ill-formed legs ;
mind subtle and witty,
but capricious as Capri, the Goat.
Aquarius.—
P
erson stout, well-set, and comely, rather
tall, not very, but never short ;
robust, strong,
healthy appearance; a long and rather fleshy face
;
complexion clear and delicate, somewhat sanguine ;
hazel eyes ;
sandy or darkish flaxen hair. This
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
sign gives more beauty than any other, except
Libra; disposition gentle and benevolent; said to
take delight on the Water,
Pisces.—Person short ;
large pale and fleshy face
the face is always full, but sometimes sanguine in
complexion; a stooping, heavy gait, holding down
the head when walking. If a female, the face is
generally plump, and the skin clear and lucid, but
very white; hair dark; eyes sleepy; shoulders
round; arms and legs short and fin-like; disposi-
tion indolent, and too often given to drink, like
the Fishes.
Caution.—These descriptions are rarely to be met
with exactly. Every planet which throws an aspect
to the ascendant has an influence both on mind and
body ;
and if any planet be rising at birth, it im-
presses its own character most powerfully On both.
If the latter part of a sign be on the cusp of the
ascendant, a portion of the next sign must be also in
the ascendant ;
and then the native will partake of
both influences. A person, for instance, having the
latter part of Sagittary rising, and the whole of
Capricorn in the ascendant, may have a fine head of
hair and handsome forehead, but the rest of the face
and person extremely ugly. The disposition also
depends chiefly on the Moon and Mercury.
8 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
CHAP. III.
THE NATURES OF THE PLANETS.
Herschel.—This is the most distant planet from the
Sun ; his motion is extremely slow, as he takes 83
years and a half to go through the 12 signs. He
c is frequently retrograde, appearing to go back-
ward in the heavens. His diameter is four times
that of our Earth.
The nature of Herschel is extremely evil. If
ascending at the time of birth, he causes the native
to be of very eccentric disposition, pursuing ex-
traordinary and uncommon objects; one who
despises the track of custom, and is very abrupt
in his manners. Whatever good he may produce,
when well aspected or situated, will be of a sudden
description, and quite out of the common course of
things. Persons whose minds are influenced by
this planet are unsettled in life, partial to travelling,
witnessing many strange scenes, and very romantic
and extraordinary in their ideas, and partial to the
study of antiquity, but yet likely to strike out
many novelties.
Saturn.—This planet is next to Herschel. He is at
a great distance from the Sun, and is about 1000
times as large as this Earth. He gees through the
zodiac in 29 years and a half.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 9
The nature of Saturn is far more evil than that
of Herschel : he is called the Greater Infortune ;
and he is undoubtedly the cause (subservient to the
will of Providence) of the greater portion of
human suffering. When he is rising or setting at
birth, the person born will suffer much lingering
sickness, and be very subject to blows, bruises,
and falls. If he be on the meridian, or coming to
the meridian, he causes perpetual trouble and dis-
grace ;
all the native’s affairs go wrong, and,
unless there be some very strong aspects of other
planets to counteract this evil position, the native
is the complete child of misfortune. If he be in
the opposite situation, that is, near the north me-
ridian, or cusp of the fourth house, his effects are
nearly as evil. Persons born under his influence
are nervous, fearful, bashful, cowardly, melancholy,
and given to shed tears. They suffer from chronic
diseases, and are liable to mental infirmities. Their
dispositions are thoughtful, malicious, and re-
served, and they are firm and obstinate in their
opinions, and adhere strongly to their attach-
ments.
Jupiter.—This planet is next to Saturn in the solar
system. He is the largest of all, being nearly one
thousand five hundred times as large as this globe.
He is very nearly 12 years in going round the
zodiac.
10 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
His nature is eminently benefic, and lie is called
the greater fortune. When rising at birth, he
confers much strength of constitution, enabling the
native to overcome very evil directions, which
would otherwise prove fatal. The persons under
his influence are healthy, cheerful, and jovial in
disposition, and are open, sincere, generous, and
quite free from fraud or meanness of any kind.
They are generally much esteemed, from pursuing
always very honorable magnanimous conduct;
and they are the favorites of fortune. If Jupiter
be approaching the meridian at birth, the native
will (unless very evil aspects occur to counteract
his influence) become extremely wealthy, and
arrive at distinction. This is verified in the na-
tivities of the Duke of Wellington and the Princess
Victoria.
Mars. —This planet is between the Earth and Ju-
piter ;
he is rather less in size than our globe, and
goes round the Sun in about six weeks less than
two years. His red, fiery appearance renders
him very conspicuous in the heavens.
Mars is a very evil planet ;
but his nature is
quite different from Saturn. He causes all hot and
violent diseases, and the persons under his influence
are subject to cuts, burns, and other violent acci-
dents. They are rash and angry in disposition,
and always ready t(> rush into quarrels and blood-
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 11
shed. If Mars be in the ascendant of any person’s
nativity, he makes them liable to receive cuts or
hate marks in the face; they are fond of war and
danger : if in the 10th house, or on the meridian,
they are generally observed as warlike characters,
and may gain honors as such. In George the
Third’s nativity he was so situated, and it is well
known that during his reign England was per*
petually at war.
Venus.—This beautiful planet is situated nearer the
Sun than is the Earth. She goes round the Sun
in 32 weeks, and is very nearly the same size as
our globe. Her nature is decidedly benefic, but
her power nothing equal to that of Jupiter. She
assists to strengthen the constitution if ascending
at birth, but she gives such a strong inclination for
pleasure, that the native often injures his health in
its pursuit. She was ascending when George the
Fourth was born, and gave him that remarkably re-
fined taste which he possessed, arid also a fondness
for dissipation. The persons born under her in-
fluence are generally of a mild, quiet disposition.
If on the meridian, she renders the native respect-
able in life, unless in ill aspect to Saturn, when he
will generally be very mean in his conduct. She
partakes very much of the nature of those planets
to which she is in aspect, and no judgment can be
formed of her effects without taking this into full
12 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
consideration. If well aspected, the native will
gain chiefly through the means of females.
Mercury.
—
This planet is the nearest to the Sun of
any yet discovered. He is very small, being only
about 3000 miles in diameter, and travels Very
swiftly, going round the Sun in 12 weeks and 4
days.
His influence, when in no aspect with any other
planet, and if in the ascendant, causes great rest-
lessness and desire of change ;
fondness for tra-
velling, and a busy turn of mind, addicted to lite-
rature : but as this planet is the chief ruler of the
mental faculties, great care must be taken to note
what aspects he forms with other planets, for on
that will chiefly depend the mental disposition of
the native. If close to the sun, the native never
has any great abilities for science ;
his mind is
rather contracted, though he may be very well
adapted for any kind of plodding business. If at
the same time he be afflicted by the evil aspects of
the malefics, and the moon also be weak and
afflicted, the native will be of very weak mind
;
and if the ascendant also be afflicted by the pre-
sence or ill aspect of evil planets, and there be no
good aspect between the Moon and Mercury, or
between them and the ascendant, the native will
be an idiot, or become insane. This may be the
case even where Mercury is distant from the Sun,
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 13
as occurred in the nativity of George the Third,
where Mercury was 12 degrees and a half from the
Sun. In that king’s nativity. Mercury had the
sextile aspect of Jupiter, which preserved his
mental faculties for several years; but being in
conjunction with Saturn, and in semi-square with
Mars, and the Moon being also in square to Mars
and in no aspect to Mercury, and neither of them
in aspect to the ascendant, the royal native, under
ill directions, lost his reason.
The Sun.—The glorious body which gives us light
and heat is less noticed than the Moon in the
judgment of a nativity ;
though, if astrology were
all fancy, his appearance would have been likely
to say much in his favor. This Earth is distant
about 95 millions of miles from the Sun, which is
about one million and a half times as large as the
Earth; and although Jupiter is about 1500 times
the size of our Earth, the Sun is 1 100 times as large
as Jupiter. The human mind strives in vain to
comprehend its immense bulk. Just as difficult is
it to comprehend how he keeps all the planetary
bodies in perpetual play around his centre ;
for
although the terms of attraction and gravitation
have been long in use, they are still as full of
mystery as is that of planetary influence. The
specific influence of the Sun is small ;
but it seems
to be similar to that of Mars. If in the ascendant,
or in aspect to it, he causes a degree of pride
14 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
when in good aspect to the Moon, he causes suc-
cess in life ;
but if in evil aspect, he gives rash-
ness, and injures the native’s fortune. If in con-
junction with any planet, he destroys the power of
that planet, in a great measure, and assumes the
nature of the planet himself, to a certain extent.
It is highly important that the Sun should be free
from the ill aspects of the malefic planets, to pro-
duce success in life ;
and it is better that he have
no aspect whatever to them, unless it be to Mars,
when the Sun is near the meridian, as this may
cause military preferment.
The Moon.—This beautiful globe goes round the
Earth in 27 days, 7 hours, and 43 minutes. Her
distance is about 240 thousand miles from us ;
and
she is nearly 50 times her own size smaller than
this earth.
She has most powerful influence on every per-
son, according to her situation at birth as regards
this earth, or what is termed her mundane posi-
tion ;
that is, her rising, setting, &c. ;
and also,
as regards her aspect with other planets. If she
be nearly in conjunction with the Sun, the native
will be of weak constitution ;
and, if not very
well aspected, and the Hyleg not strong, of very
short life. Persons born during an eclipse of the
Sun, when the Moon is nearly in a direct line
with the Sun, are invariably very weakly, and are
said never to live many years. The Moon has
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 15
certainly, at all times, much to do with the sta-
mina of the native’s constitution ;
and, if she be
much afflicted, his health will rarely be good, and
his fortune will be as poor. The sensual faculties
depend almost wholly on the Moon; and if she be
afflicted, the native will be idle and given to drink-
ing, gluttony, and debauchery. The good as-
spects of Mercury and the Moon to each other are
important, to give wit and ingenuity. If the
Moon ascend at birth, the native will be very fond
of novelty and roaming about; and if she be
weak, will lead a very dissolute life. If the Moon
be on the meridian, or approaching it, and at the
same time in good aspect to Mercury, the native
will be clever, and fortunate through his own ta-
lents ;
if in good aspect to Jupiter, he will gain
wealth ;
to the Sun, he will meet preferment ;
to
Venus, he will have many female friends, and be
very agreeable in his manners ;
to Saturn, if Sa-
turn himself be strong, he may gain by elderly
persons, legacies, buildings, or agricultural pur-
suits ;
to Mars, he may succeed in warfare, or as
a surgeon, cutler, &c. But in all these cases, if
there be any evil aspects to the Moon, or to the
meridian itself, the good will be materially dimi-
nished, or perhaps destroyed.
When evil aspects are found between the Mc)on,
Mars, and Mercury, the native is inclined to dis-
honesty. The Moon in good aspect to Mars gives
16 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
courage ;
and if Mars be evilly affected by other
planets,, boldness and impudence.
CHAP. IV.
OF THE ASPECTS.
The aspects in the zodiac consist of certain dis-
tances, at which, when two bodies are found, they
produce a peculiar effect. Many objections have
been made to this part of the science; the adver-
saries asserting that these aspects are merely arbi-
trary measures, and that they have no foundation in
nature, there being no difference whatever in ma-
thematics between the distance of 120 degrees and
the distance of 122 degrees which can be the foun-
dation of that peculiar effect which astrologers de-
clare that the aspect called a Trine does produce.
Many attempts have been made to shew that the
aspects are produced by a division of the circle,
which is analogous to the measures in music; and
that they are aliquot or equal parts of the circle, &c.
But though these ideas are ingenious, they are not
satisfactory; and though the old aspects produce
aliquot or even divisions of the circle, and also of
the twelve signs, yet the new aspects will not do the
same.
The number 360, being the degrees contained in
the circle of the zodiac, may be divided equally by
the old aspects 60, 90, 120, and 180 degrees. The
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 17
number 12, the number of the signs/ may also be
divided equally by the old aspects ;
a sextile being 2
signs, a square 3 signs,, a trine 4 signs, and an op-
position 6 signs. But when we come to try these
divisions with the new aspects, they cannot be made
for example, a quintile, 72 degrees, will divide the
circle equally, but not the signs; and a sesquiquad-
rate, 135 degrees, will not give an equal division of
either : hence this idea of an equal division is not
founded in nature, and the adversary’s objection re-
mains triumphant.
I do not think it would be very satisfactorily an-
swered, even if this pretended harmonious division
could be established ;
nor, on the other hand, is the
objection itself of any great consequence.; for, if it
can be proved (which it certainly can), that when
the Moon, for example, arrives at a trine aspect of
Jupiter, or 120 degrees from that planet in any na-
tivity, certain remarkable effects appear which do
not appear when she arrives at the distance of 122 or
123, or any other number of degrees, this fact de-
monstrates that there is something peculiar in the
angle formed by 120 degrees, which constitute a
trine aspect.
Having closely investigated this subject, 1 have
discovered a very remarkable peculiarity in the angles
which form both the old and the neio aspects; and I
now, for the first time, publish it to the world. The
fact is, that every astrological aspect forms the
c
18 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
EXACT ANGLE, OR SUPPLEMENTAL ANGLE, OF A RE-
GULAR POLYGON, WHICH MAY BE INSCRIBED IN A
CIRCLE.
Regular polygons (which are figures whose sides
are of equal length), if they contain 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9,
10, or 12 sides, may be inscribed in a circle, which
they will, of course, divide equally ;
but if they con-
tain either 7 or 1 1 sides, they cannot be so inscribed,
and produce at the same time an equal division of the
360 degrees of the circle. Now each of the poly-
gons, or figures of 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, or 12 equal
sides, will be found to contain the same number of
equal angles ;
that is to say, a figure of 3 equal sides
will contain 3 equal angles, a figure of 4 equal
sides will contain 4 equal angles, and so of the re-
mainder ;
and it is a fact, that each of these angles,
or its supplement, is exactly the amount of an astro-
logical aspect
!
The following is a Table of the Aspects and
the Polygons whose Angles they measure : —
*
30 deg. A semi-sextile, the supplemental angle of a
regular duodecagon, or figure of 12 sides.
45 deg. A semi-square, the supplemental angle of a
regular octagon, or figure of 8 sides.
60 deg. A sextile, the angle of a regular triangle,
or figure of 3 sides.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 19
72 deg. A quintile the supplemental angle of a re-
gular pentagon, or figure of 5 sides.
90 deg. A square, the angle of a regular quadrangle,
or figure of 4 sides.
120 deg. A trine,
the angle of a regular hexagon, or
figure of 6 sides.
135 deg. A sesquiquadrate ,
the angle of a regular
octagon, or figure of 8 sides.
144 deg. A biquintile the angle of a regular deca-
gon, or figure of 1 0 sides.
Note . —180 deg. the opposition, the amount of 2
right angles* which is the sum of the 3 angles of
every triangle.
There is one polygon, a figure of 9 sides, that
forms an angle of 40 degrees, which have not yet
been found to constitute an astrological aspect ;
but
I am far from certain that it may not be so consi-
dered.
No person can deny that this is a very curious and
remarkable agreement between the aspects and the
angles of regular polygons ;
and those who under-
stand geometry, and who reflect on the properties of
the triangle and other polygons, and on the nature
of the circle itself, will find in it room for admiration
of the works of the Almighty Creator, “ whose ways
are past finding out.”
The student will perceive that these facts are
merely offered as proof that the aspects are not arbi-
trary, but are, indeed, intimately connected with the
c 2
20 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
great principles of geometry, upon which the archi-
tecture of the universe itself is founded.
CHAP. V.
THE QUALITIES OF THE ASPECTS.
The benefic aspects are the semi-sextile, the
sextile, the quintile, the trine, and the biquintile .
When planets are found situated at these distances
from each other, they operate beneficially for the na-
tive ;
and if the aspect be not yet complete at births
hut may be wanting a few degrees, then the effect is
less powerful ;
but it will be found to take effect at
that period in life when it becomes complete, which
will be explained under the head of “ Directions .
5
9
If the aspect be past, the planet which, by its more
speedy motion, is separating from the other, will still
retain the effect of the aspect until it has separated
several degrees.
The Malefic Aspects are the semi- quartile or
semi-square, the square ,
the sesquiquadrate,
and the
opposition. When planets are found at the distances
which constitute these aspects, they act evilly for the
native. The same observations hold good with re-
gard to the approaching and separating as are made
in the last paragraph.
Observe.— The more perfect or exact is the aspect,
the more powerful will be the effect, whether good or
evil.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 21
The Conjunction.—This is when two planets are
in the same longitude; that is, in the same de-
gree and minute of any sign. If either of the
lights (the Sun and Moon) be in conjunction with
an evil planet, it injures the native’s constitution;
and if an evil planet be conjoined with the Hyleg,
the native will be very liable to illness all through
life.
If the Hyleg be conjoined with Jupiter or
Venus, the constitution is strengthened thereby;
but, if it be the Sun which is Hyleg, his conjunc-
tion with the benefic destroys its power to do good
in a great measure, and its favourable aspects to
the Moon, mid-heaven, ascendant, or part of for-
tune, are of less avail.
The Semisextile.—This aspect is the weakest
of all ;
it is of no importance in directions ;
but if,
at birth, the Hyleg have an exact semi-sextile to a
benefic, the health will be benefitted.
The Semi-quartile. —This, whether found at
birth or formed by directional motion, is evil ;
but
if the aspect be between the Hyleg and Jupiter, it
rather strengthens the constitution.
The Sextile.—This is a powerful and benefic
aspect.
The Quintile.—This is benefic, but if to the evil
planets is of. no avail, as it is much less powerful
than the sextile.
The Square or Quartile.—This is a very power-
22 GliAMMAK OF ASTROLOGY.
ful and evil aspect; and if the planet casting it be
Saturn, and he in the 10th house, and the planet
receiving it be the Hyleg, the native will always
be ailing, unless very powerful aspects counter-
act ; and even then the native will suffer greatly
from ill health, especially if Saturn’s nature be
rendered more evil by ill aspects to Herschel or
Mars.
The Trine.—This is the most powerful of the
good aspects.
The Sesquiquadrate. —This is just like the
semhquartile.
The Biquintile.—Consider this just like the
quintile.
The Opposition.—This is the most powerfully
evil aspect. If the Hyleg be in opposition to
Saturn or Mars, the native will be of very weak
constitution.
The Zodiacal Parallel.—This was formerly
termed the anti-scion. The old writers, whose
works I advise the student to avoid, did not pro-
perly calculate these parallels, as they omitted the
planet’s latitude : this caused continual error, as
they never could be correct except on those rare
occasions when two planets were exactly on the
ecliptic. The zodiacal parallel signifies a parallel
distance from the equator, or being in the same
degree of declination ;
and whether of the same
name, north or south, is of no consequence. The
23
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
student should pay very particular attention to the
declinations of the planets* as the zodiacal pa-
rallel is of more importance than any other as-
pect. The effect of this position is exactly the
same as that of a close conjunction* but more
powerful.
CHAP. VI.
OF THE FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS.
This was formerly termed a horoscope* and is
sometimes called a scheme of the heavens. It is no-
thing more or less than a map or plan* in which is
depicted an accurate representation of the heavens at
any required time ;
as* for example* at the moment
a child is born. It* of course* will shew what stars
are rising* setting* or coming to the meridian ;
and*
also* what positions are held by the Sun* Moon* and
planets* and also by any comet which may happen to
be visible at the time.
It has two grand divisions* which are the diurnal
and nocturnal hemispheres. The former is all that
space contained between the eastern and western
horizons above the earth ; the latter is all the re-
mainder of the-heavens which are* of course* below
the earth. It has two other great divisions caused
by the meridian ;
they are the south and the north
points. The former is that at which the Sun arrives
every day at noon* being then in an exact south di-
24 GRAMMAR of astrology.
rection from the spectator on this side the equator
;
and the other is that point which is directly opposite
to the south meridian, and is, of course, the north
meridian, where the sun is at midnight.
These four divisions, the east, south,
west,
and
north, are evidently formed by nature. The east is
that point where the Sun rises or ascends, and be-
comes visible ;
the south is that where he ceases to
ascend, and, after appearing for a moment to be
stationary, begins to descend ;
the west is that where
he sets and disappears ;
lastly, the north is that where
he ceases to descend, and begins again to ascend
and approach the eastern horizon.
Astrologers divide the heavens into twelve com-
partments, which they term Houses : these four
points are the most important of those twelve
houses, and are called the Angles. Planets, when
found in the angles at birth, are far more powerful
to good or evil, according to their natures, than in
any other part of the figure. The most powerful
angle is the south, or when a star is on the meridian
above the earth ;
the next is the east, or when a star
is ascending ;
the next is the west, or when a star is
setting ;
the least powerful is the north, or when a
star is on the nadir, or on the meridian under the
Earth.—{See the plate, fig. 1.)
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 25
CHAP. VLI.
OF THE TWELVE HOUSES OF HEAVEN.
Having divided the Heavens into four quarters,
which we have shewn to be formed by nature, we
shall now shew how these are again subdivided into
three each, comprising in all twelve divisions, called
the Twelve Houses.
If the first degree of Aries, the beginning of the
zodiac, be rising in the east, the opposite point of
the zodiac (which is the first degree of Libra)
must
be setting at the same moment. If, then, we exa-
mine the heavens, we shall find that on the meridian
(north) will be found the first degree of Cancer, and
on the opposite meridian (south) will be found the
beginning of Capricorn. Each of the meridians,
therefore, are 90 degrees distant from the east point,
or ascendant ;
but, for the sake of clearness, we will
consider only the south meridian. If the Sun be in
the first degree of Aries when rising, and the Moon
be in the first degree of Capricorn at the same time,
she must be on the south meridian, and be also at
90 degrees distance from the Sun, which is a square
aspect to that body. If the Sun rise in the first de-
gree of Aries, the day and night are then equal, each
being 12 hours long. The Sun rises, in this case, at
6 o’clock, comes to the south meridian at 12, "and
26 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
sets at 6 in the evening ;
and if we suppose the
Moon to remain fixed on the meridian, the Sun will,
two hours after rising, be within 60 degrees of her,
having passed one-third of the distance from the
ascendant to the meridian or mid-heaven: this is a
sextile aspect. It appears, therefore, that one-third
of the half of the arc formed by the Sun in his daily
course being completed, he is found at a sextile as-
pect to the meridian. Of course, he must then be
30 degrees (a semi-sextile)
from the horizon, or
ascendant. Now this, being one-third of one quar-
ter of the heavens, is one-twelfth part of the
Whole ;
and thus constitutes one house. In two
hours more the Sun proceeds upwards another 30
degrees, and arrives at the distance of 60 degrees
from the ascendant, and 30 degrees to the mid-hea-
ven. This forms another third of the quarter con-
tained between the east and the meridian, and be-
comes another house. When he arrives at the mid-
heaven, at noon, he has passed a third house ; whence
it appears that there are three houses between the
horizon and meridian, and the beginning of each is
in aspect to both of those points. It is this circum-
stance of their being in aspect, and being found to
operate certain effects which they do not when other-
wise situated, that, no doubt, first gave rise to the
division of the heavens into twelve houses. It is
plain that, in passing from the mid-heaven to the
western horizon, similar positions are formed ;
as
GUAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 27
also in passing from the western horizon to the north
meridian, and again from the north meridian to the
place of Sun rise, in the east. Each quadrant of the
heavens produces three houses —each hemisphere
contains six; there are, of course, Twelve Houses.
Notice.—It matters not whether the Sun or any
star be on the equator, and so divide the heavens
into equal portions to constitute the houses, or be
distant from the equator, and so divide the heavens
into unequal portions ;
since one house in the course
of any heavenly body will always measure exactly
one third part of the arc that body forms between
the horizon and the meridian If it be more than
180 degrees, or 12 hours, above the Earth, it must
be exactly so much less than 180 degrees, or 12
hours, below the earth ;
because it must be 24 hours
(equal to 360 degrees) in passing from the meridian
to that same meridian again. Hence, if you know
the extent of half its diurnal arc,
you have only to
take that from 180 degrees (or, if it be given in time
instead of longitude or right ascension, from 12
hours) to find the extent of half its nocturnal arc,
CHAP. VIII.
TO ERECT A FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS AT
BIRTH.
This is merely to draw a map of the heavens as
they may appear at the moment a child was born
28 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
and according to the situation of the signs of the
zodiac, the Sun, Moon, and other heavenly bodies,
will be the destiny of the native or child then born,
unless by care and prudence any portion of that des-
tiny, being foreseen, may be avoided.
Take a pair of compasses, with a pen attached to
one leg, and draw a circle to represent the heavens
;
within which draw a second smaller circle, to repre-
sent the Earth. Then draw a straight line through
the outer circle (as in Jig.
1) to represent the hori-
zon ; E being the east, where the Sun rises, and W
the west, where the Sun sets. Then draw another
line at right angles from the first, to represent the
meridian ;
S being the south, where the Sun is at
noon, and N the north, where the Sun is at mid-
night. These four points are the angles, or cusps,
or beginnings of the 1st, 4th, 7th, and 10th houses
;
which are of most consequence in every figure of
birth or nativity. Proceed to divide each of the four
quadrants of the figure into three parts, by drawing
four other lines, which are represented by the dotted
lines in the plate. You will then have the twelve
houses ready for representing the planets and signs
as they may happen to be situated .
—(See Jig. 2.)
TO IN8ERT THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC.
1st, Look in White’s Ephemeris for the year of
birth, for the degree and minute of longitude the
Sun was in at the noon preceding the time of birth;
GRAMMAll OF ASTROLOGY. 29
and then find, in the table of A. R., what degree and
minute that answers to : note this down. Then take
the time of the birth after the last noon, and turn it
into degrees and minutes by Table I, or by multiply-
ing it by 15; add these sums together, and the
amount will be the degree of right ascension on the
meridian at the moment of birth.
Remark. —The true moment of birth is that when
the child first draws breath, which is generally known
by its crying ;
and this may happen before the lower
extremities of the child are born. This time must be
corrected for the equation of time, by adding the
time the clock is after the Sun, or subtracting the
time the clock is before the Sun, previously to add-
ing it to the Sun’s right ascension at the previous
noon, as above directed. This equation of time will
be found in White’s Ephemeris for every day at
noon.
2d. Having found the right ascension of the me-
ridian, or mid-heaven, at birth, look in the table of
houses what degree of longitude it answers to, and
write that down on the cusp of the 10th house or
mid-heaven, and the same degree of the opposite sign
on the opposite (the 4th) house.
3d. In the next column in the table of houses you
will find the degree on the 1 1th house, and at the head
of the column, or in some part of the column, above the
line of figures you are using, the sign which is on that
house, which write down accordingly, and the same
30 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
degree of the opposite sign on the opposite (the 5th)
house.
4th. In the 4th column you will find the degree of
longitude to be placed on the 12th house ;
place the
same degree of the opposite sign on the 6th house.
5th, In the 5th column you will find the degree
and minute of longitude on the ascendant,, or which
is actually rising at the moment of birth, and its op-
po site is, of course, on the 7th house, or descendant.
6th. Take the degree in the 6th column for the
longitude of the 2d house, and its opposite for that
on the cusp of the 8th.
7th. Take the degree in the 7th column for the
longitude of the 3d house, and its opposite for the
9th house, and you will then have completed the
cusps of the twelve houses. —[See fig. 3.)
Example.—In “ Moore’s Life of Byron” will be
found a letter, written by Lord Byron, dated Pisa,
10th December, 1821, which contains these words
—
<<r
This day and this hour (one on the clock), my
daughter is six years old.” We will, therefore, take
this as a well authenticated nativity, and erect a
figure of the heavens for 1 hour, p.m., 10th Decem-
ber, 1815, at London.
1st. Referring to White’s Ephemeris for the noon
preceding the time of birth, which was the noon of
the 10th Dec. 1815, we find the Sun’s longitude was
17 deg. 37 min. of Sagittarius. The right ascension
of 17 deg. of that sign is found to be 255° 52', that
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 31
of 18 deg*, of the same sign is 256° 57' ;
then, by
the rule of three, say, if one degree or 60 minutes
give the difference between these numbers, 65 mi-
nutes, what will 37 minutes give? Ans. 40 minutes,
which, added to the first number 255° 52', makes
256° 32' for the Sun’s right ascension at noon. And
as the Sun is always on the meridian at noon, this
was the right ascension of the meridian or mid-heaven
at noon.
The time of birth, 1 hour after noon, is now to be
corrected for the equation of time, as it was the time
by the clock, and we require the time by the Sun,
The clock at noon was 7 min. 9 seconds after, or
slower than the Sun, and on the next day it was 6
min. 42 sec. slower: the difference is 27 seconds;
hence, as 24 hours give 27 sec., one hour will give 1
sec., which taken from the 7 min. 9 sec., leaves the
clock after the Sun 7 min. 8 sec., which must be
added to the time of birth, 1, p.m.
Thus, time of birth . . . . * . 1 0 0
Add for the clock too slow 0 7 8
17 8 equal to
16 deg. 47 min.
Then to right ascension of mid-heaven
(or Sun) at noon
Add the right ascension for time of7
^ ^
birth after noon 5
The sum is the right ascension of the 7
^
meridian at the given moment of birth i
32 GRAMMAll OF ASTROLOGY.
2d. This right ascension is found to answer to
3 deg. of the sign Capricorn : we, therefore,, enter
yy 3° on the cusp of the 10th house or mid-heaven
(see the figure), and the same degree of the oppo-
site sign 93 on the 4th,
3d. In the next (3d) column will be found 22°
;
which shews that on the 11th house must be placed
yy 22., and the like number of the opposite sign 93
on the 5th house.
4th. In the 4th column will be found 17 deg. of
Aquarius, as that sign is given at the head of the
column; place this on the 12th house, and 17 of Leo
on the 6th or opposite house.
5th. In the 5th column you find 7° 55', which de
notes that 7 deg. 55 min. of Aries were ascending in
the east ; and after placing T 7° 55' on the 1st,
place =2= 7° 55' on the opposite or 7th house.
6th. On the 2d house place what you find in the
6th column, viz. 22° Taurus ;
thus 8 22°, and on its
opposite place IR 22°.
7th. On the 3d house place what you see in the
7th column, n 15°, and on its opposite $ 15°. The
figure will then display the signs of the zodiac as
they were in the heavens at 1 p.m. 10th Dec 1815,
at London.
(See fig. 3.)
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 33
TO PLACE THE PLANETS IN THE FIGURE.
Preliminary Observation. —The Ephemeris being
calculated for the meridian of London (or Greenwich,
which is the same thing in effect)., if the birth take
place as much as 15 miles to the eastward or west-
ward of London, the time of birth must be corrected
for the longitude of the place,, to ascertain the time
it was in London., before we find the planets’ places.
Rule. —If the longitude be east of London, sub-
stract 1 minute from the time given for every 15
miles of longitude ;
but if it be to the west of Lon-
don, add 1 minute for every 15 miles of longitude.
Example. —If the birth be at Liverpool, the longi-
tude of which is 3 degrees west, or 180 miles, add
12 minutes to the time given (since 180 divided by
15 gives 12), and you will have the time it was in
London, for which the planets’ places must be
found.
Tofind the Planets' Places at Birth.
Rule.-—Find the amount of longitude in the zodiac
traversed by each planet between the noon preceding
and that which follows the time of birth. Then say.
If 24 hours give that amount, what will the time of
birth from the preceding noon give? and add the
result to the planets’ longitude at the preceding noon.
Example, —In the nativity of Lord Byron's
D
84 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
daughter, © ’s longitude at noon on the 10th Decem-
ber was 4 17° 37' (the seconds when less than 30
may be omitted ;
if above 30 call them one minute,
and add it to the minutes); on the 11th it was $
18° 38', the difference is 61 minutes; then, If 24
hours give 61 minutes, what will 1 hour 7 minutes
give ? Answer, 2 minutes 50 seconds, which, added
to the 0 ’s place at the preceding noon, gives © ’s
place in the zodiac at birth.
Thus © at noon preceding f 17° 37' 21"
Longitude gained since noon 2 50
©’s longitude at birth . . 17° 40' 11"
The•*
same by Proportional Logarithms.
To the arith. comp, of the log. of 24 hours 9.1249
Add the log. of longitude made in 24 )
2 2481
hours—1 hour, 1 minute . . 5
And the log. of the time since noon—1 )
^ 2073
hour, 7 minutes ... 5
It gives the log. of 3 minutes . . 3.5803
N.B. For rules to work these logarithms, see
chap, ix, book 2.
Another brief Method used by the Author.
Divide the amount of longitude made in 24 hours,
and also the time since noon, by 12 ;
then multiply
the quotients together, and the result is the answer
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 35
in minutes of a degree, the last figure being a de-
cimal.
Example , —.Longitude made in 24 hours 61 mi-
nutes, divided by 12, gives 5 ;
time since noon, 67
minutes, divided by 12 gives 5J ;
then 5J multiplied
by 5 gives 27J : the last figure being a decimal, the
answer is 2.7J, or 2 minutes and 7J tenths of a mi-
nute, which may be called 3 minutes.
In like manner find the D
?
s longitude at birth.
Thus longitude on the 10th is T 5° 5', ditto on
the 11th, T 17° 20', difference in 24 hours 12° 15';
this divided by 12 gives 1°
1J', which, reduced to
minutes, is 61J, and multiplied by 5J produces 33.6f,
or 33 minutes 6| tenths, equal to 34 minutes: this,
added to ]) longitude on the 10th at noon, T 5° 5',
gives her longitude at birth T 5° 39'.
Having found the other planets
5
places, proceed to
place them in the figure as follows
1st. ©. On the cusp of the 9th is $ 15°; but as
© is farther on in $ ,
place him inside the house :
if he had been in less than 15° of $ , he would have
gone by the cusp of the 9th, and should be placed
just outside.
2d. D . On the ascendant is T 7° 55' ;
and as
]) is not so far on in the sign, she appears to have
passed the cusp, and must be placed just above the
1st house.
3d. $ is not so far on as the cusp of the 9th, and
must be placed just outside the same.—N.B. His
d 2
86 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
place is only given for the noon of every 10th clay
at page 32 of the Ephemeris ;
but as his motion is
very slow, his longitude is easily calculated.
4th. Tp is in zz 8° 36', and falls just outside the
cusp of the 12th house, which is in zz 17°; he is^
therefore, in the 11th.
5th. If. in tr 2° 15', and ? in tR 1° 32', both
fall in the 7th, because ir 22° are on the cusp of
the 8th.
6th. $ being farther on in T than the cusp of the
1st, is in the ascendant, in T 20° 26
7th. £ being in $ 0° 82', falls farther outside
the 9th than does Ijl, and is near the middle of the
8th house.
Q> . The ’s north node is in $ 24° 57', and falls
in the 9th house, farther on than © ;
the £S/the south
node, is always opposite to it, and is of course in n
24° 57' in the 3d house. The figure is now com-
plete. ( See fig. 3.)
CHAP. IX.
TO FIND THE PLANETS’ LATITUDES,
DECLINATIONS, &c. j
1st. The Latitude.
—
This is given in the Ephe-
meris for every day at noon for the Moon ;
and the
proportional part may be found by either of the
rules given for finding the longitude.
The Sun never has any latitude. The other pla-
nets’ latitude is given for every 6th day; and the
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 37
proportional part may be found by the golden rule,
with great ease.
Example. —The latitude of Mercury on the 7th of
December, 1815, was 1° 33' north, and on the 13th
it was 0° 49' north, difference 44 minutes ;
then if
6 days give 44 minutes, what will 3 days and 1 hour
(the time between the 7th day at noon and the time
of birth) give ? Answer, 22 minutes, which, taken
from the latitude of Mercury at noon on the 7th, as
he is decreasing in latitude, leaves his latitude at
birth 1° IF north.
Observe.—Yi the planet pass from north to south,
or from south to north latitude, add the amount of
each to find the difference.
2d. The Declination.—On this depends most of
the other data for ascertaining the arcs of direction,
by which the period of the various events in life is
known. It should be accurately calculated. In
Wilson’s Astrological Tables it is given for every
even degree of longitude and latitude in which the
planets can be found ;
but as they are seldom in an
even degree, it is necessary to take the proportional
part both for the longitude and latitude.
Example 1.—The Sun is in $ 17° 40', the de-
clination of $ 17° is 22° 50', that of $ 18° is
22° 56', difference 6 minutes ;
then say. As one de-
gree or 60 minutes are to 40 minutes, so are 6 mi-
nutes to the number sought, 4 minutes, which add to
the declination of $ 17°, as the Sun is increasing
38 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
in declination, and the Sun’s declination will be 22®
54', and, as he is in a southern sign, it is south.
Example 2.—To find the Moon’s declination in the
nativity of the Hon. Miss Byron, look for the Moon’s
longitude T 5° 39' in the Table. Opposite the
longitude of 5 degrees of T? under the column of
5 degrees south latitude (nearly the latitude of the
Moon), are found 2° 36' ;
and in the same column op-
posite 6 degrees are found 2 Q 12', the difference is
24 min. ;
then say, If 60 min. (one degree) give 24,
what will 39 minutes give ?
60 : 24 : : 39
24
156
78
60)936
Answer 15.36, or 15 min. 36 seconds minus.
Next look for the difference between 5 degrees of
latitude and 6 deg. opposite the 5th degree of longi-
tude : this will be found to be 55 ; then say. If 60
give 55, what will 11 (the Moon’s latitude over and
above 5 degrees) give ?
60 : 55 : : 11
55
55
55
60)605
Answer 10.5 plus.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 39
Then, as the difference for the minutes of longi-
tude is minus, and the difference of the minutes of
latitude is plus, subtract one from the other.
15' 36
,/
minus
10 5 plus
And you will have, diff. 5 31 minus, to be taken
from the first number 2° 36' which is opposite 5 deg.
longitude, and in the column of 5 deg. latitude. As
the seconds are over 30, call this correction 6 min.,
which, taken from 2° 36', leaves the Moon’s true
declination 2° 30
;
, which is south, since the Moon,
though in a northern sign by longitude, is still south
of the equator by reason of her great south latitude.
Observe. —If both corrections be plus, or both
minus, add them together to find the true correction,
which if plus add to, and if minus take from the
number opposite to the even degrees of longitude and
latitude which the planet has just passed.
3d. The Right Ascension.-—-This is found in Wil-
son’s Tables by the same process as the declination
if less than 180 degrees it is north, and if it exceed
180 degrees it is south. It is counted from the be-
ginning of T, and is the measure of a plain sphere
or circle, which passes over the meridian once in 24
hours ; and, as it amounts to 360 degrees, it follows
that 1 hour is equal to 15 degrees, and one degree
being the equivalent to one-fifteenth part of an hour,
is equal to 4 min. in time. Hence it follows, that an
40 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
error of 4 mil*, only in the supposed time of a birth
will cause an error of one entire degree in the right
ascension of the meridian. And as all the aspects
of the planets to the meridian or to the ascendant
are measured by right ascension, the error of only
one minute in noting the time of a birth will cause
an error of 15 minutes of a degree, or one quarter of
a degree in the arc of direction ;
and as the time of
events is ascertained by the right ascension of the
Sum, which increases about one degree in one day,
and as one day after birth answers to one year of
life, the result is, that an error of one minute in the
time of a birth will cause an error of a quarter of a
year in the expected time of an event. This causes
predictions to be incorrect as to time, unless the es-
timated time of birth be scrupulously exact, or the
true time be found by comparing the arcs of direc-
tion with some events which have occurred to the
native.
4th. The Meridian Distance.—This is found by
taking the difference between the A.11. (right ascen-
sion) of the mid-heaven and the planet, if it be above
the horizon ;
and the difference between the A.R. of
the cusp of the 4th house or north meridian (called
also the lower heaven), if the planet be below the
horizon. The A.R. of the lower heaven, or 4th
house, is found by adding 180 degrees to A.R. of the
mid-heaven or 10th house, and, if it exceed 360 de-
grees, take that number from it.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 41
Example. —To find the meridian distance of Sa-
turn in the nativity of Lord Byron’s daughter :
A.R. Saturn . . 3 IP 17'
A.R. of the Meridian . 273 19
Saturn’s Meridian dist. 37 58
6th. The Semi-Arc. —This is the half of the planet’s
duration above or below the horizon, and may be
measured in hours and minutes, or in degrees and
minutes of a degree.
Rule 1.—Seek in the Table of Ascensional Dif-
ference for the elevation of the pole (which means the
latitude of the country) where the native was born,
and opposite to the declination of the planet will be
found the ascensional difference.
Rule 2. —Bear in mind that, if tib^^lanet have no
declination, it is on the equator,-?midFmust be just 12
hours (or 180 degrees) above the Earth, and the same
space below. But if it have declination, it must have
ascensional difference, which is the extent of time (if
turned into time) it will be above 6 hours in passing
from the horizon to the meridian, or less than 6
hours in so doing. If taken in degrees, it is the ex-
tent above or beneath 90 degrees, which it describes
in passing from the horizon to the meridian.
Rule 3.—-If the planet be above the Earth, and in
north declination, add the ascensional difference to
90 deg. to find its semi-arc ; and if it be in south de-
42 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
clination* subtract the ascensional difference from 90
degrees for its semi arc.
Rule 4.—If the planet be below the Earth in north
declination* subtract ;
but if it be in south decli-
nation, add the ascensional difference to 90 deg. to
find its semi-arc.
Note. —Having found its semi-arc* either above or
below the Earth* you may find its other semi-arc by
subtracting the one you have from 180 degrees.
Example 1.—What is the semi-arc of Saturn in
the Hon. Miss Byron’s nativity?—Saturn is above
the Earth* and in south declination ;
he is a shorter
time above the Earth than below ;
therefore his asc.
diff.* which is found under the pole or latitude of
London 51° 32'* and opposite Saturn’s declination
18° 57
/
to be 25° 36'* is to be taken from 90°, which
leaves 64° 24' for his semi-arc diurnal.
Example 2. —The Sun’s asc. diff. under the same
latitude and 22° 547
declination is 32° 5'* which*
taken from 90°* gives 57° 55' for the Sun’s semi-arc ;
this doubled is 115° 50'* and turned into time is 7
hours 43 min. 20 seconds* the time of the Sun’s stay
above the Earth.
These are the only data required to proceed to
calculate the arcs of direction* by which not only the
nature of the events which shall befall the native may
be foreseen* but also the period when they shall oc-
cur (to within a few days) may be undoubtedly ascer-
tained.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 43
For the purpose of reference we will here give
them all in
A Speculum ( or Table of Data) in the Nati-
vity of Lord Byron's Daughter.
a
O' s « O
o>
c
aJ
3 a
v
Right scensi
a a
13
S3
1
Remarks.
s ft <1 Sq
0 /
21.35 S
o /
27.16
The Moon, though
¥ 0.4 N 246.3 60.8 D above the Earth,
apparently by her
h 0.51 S 18.57 S 311.17 37.58 64.24D
longitude, is in re-
ality under the ho-
U 1.8 N
rizon, owing to her
11.12 S 210.27 62.52 75.34D great latitude : she
is, in< fact, farther
$ 0.25N 8.23N 18.42 74.37 79.19N from the horizon
than Mars, as will
O * * 22.54 S 256.35 16.44 57.55D
be found by taking
her meridian dist.
2.35N
86° 4* from her se-
? 9.36 S 210.17 63.2 77.43D mi-arc 93° 9/ ; the
diff., which is al-
2 1.11N 19.7 S 238.24 34.55 64.8 D ways the planet’s
dist. from he hori-
D 5.11 S 2.30 S 7,15 86.4 93.9 N zon, being 7°
while the diff. of
© — 2.30 S 81.54 11.25 93.9 N Mar’s merid. dist.
and semi-arc is only
40 42/.
44 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
CHAP. X.
TO JUDGE THE FUTURE FATE BY THE FIGURE OF
THE HEAVENS AT THE MOMENT OF BIRTH.
Remark.
—
The word fate does not here imply
inevitable fate ;
for though the planets produce a
certain influence on the native’s affairs, yet that in-
fluence is capable of being opposed by the human
will9 and may by that means be either overcome
entirely or greatly mitigated. If, however, it be not
attended to, but allowed its full scope, it will then
certainly produce its full effect ;
and the reader must
remember, that astrologers, in predicting events,
always pre- suppose that this last circumstance will
be the case.
RULE TO JUDGE OF THE PERSON.
Consider the planets in the ascendant, if there be
any, and the sign ascending, and also those planets
which throw an aspect to the cusp of the ascendant
;
and make a judicious mixture of these.
Example. —In the nativity of Lord Byron’s Ada,
we find the Moon and Mars ascending, and placed
in T • The native will be of moderate stature, rather
lean neck, &c., and her eyes quick and darting, with
a resolute glance. She will have some colour, occa-
sioned by Mars ;
but yet the Moon tends to give pale-
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 45
ness ;
and I have no doubt that she has some cut or
mark in the face. Her hair will be rather strong,
and of a reddish tint, though the Moon again tends
to correct this, which is produced by Mars. The
Sun is on the cusp of the 9th house, throwing a trine
aspect to the ascendant, and Saturn, being in the
9th degree of zz, throws a sextile aspect to the
ascendant. The Sun causes a bright golden-tinted
hair, and Saturn causes dark hair : the result is, that
I judge that her hair is what is called a bright auburn
colour, inclining to redness in a very small degree.
The words of Ptolemy are, “ Mars, ascending, gives
a fair ruddiness to the person, with large size ;
blue
or grey eyes, a sturdy figure, and a moderate growth
of hair.” He says, “the Moon generally contributes
better proportion and greater delicacy of figure.”
Hence, I conclude that this native is a well-made
elegant girl, of extremely good carriage. There is
a conjunction of Venus and Jupiter in the figure;
and I have observed this produces fine blue eyes.
She has, then, in addition, beautiful eyes ;
and I have
no doubt is a fine specimen of the beauty of English
females.
RULE TO JUDGE OF THE MIND.
Consider the sign ascending and the planets in the
ascendant (if there be any), and those which aspect
the ascendant ;
but consider chiefly the Moon and
Mercury, how they are situated, and how they are
46 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
aspected; and remember, before judging of the effect
of any planet upon the ascendant, the Moon or Mer-
cury, to observe how that planet is itself affected by
aspects of other planets ;
because the rules in Chap:
III are to be understood of the planets when pure
from the admixture of others. Every planet acts
upon every other its aspects, except the Moon and
Mercury, which are purely passive.—N.B. g governs
the intellect, and D the sensual faculties.
Example. —In Ada’s nativity we find Mars in the
ascendant in trine aspect to the Sun : this in the words
of Ptolemy renders her “ noble, imperious, irascible,
warlike, versatile, and powerful in intellect.” The
Sun in trine to Mars, “ co-operates to increase pro-
bity, industry, honour, and all laudable qualities.”
The Sun being in good aspect to the ascendant, causes
a degree of pride or feeling of dignity. Mars has
the zodiacal parallel of Yenus, which Ptolemy says
“renders the mind cheerful, docile, friendly, com-
placent, joyous, playful, frank, delighting in songs
and dancing, amorous, fond of the arts and of dra-
matic personation, * * brave * * * sensible, cau-
tious, and discreet ;
* * * quick in anger,
extra-
vagant in expence, and jealous.” The Moon having
the conjunction of Mars, will render the native bold
and enterprising, and the more so as it falls in the
ascendant. To this the good aspect of the Sun con-
tributes to add an indomitable spirit, which, if occa-
sion should offer, will display the native to the world
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 47
a perfect heroine. The Moon and ascendant being
in a moveable sign will, however, add to the versatile
character of the native, “who will be,” says Ptolemy,
“susceptible of change.” The most remarkable
feature in this nativity, as regards the situation of
Mercury, is his trine aspect to the Moon ;
as good
aspects between the Moon and Mercury are the best
evidence of intellectual ability. The native has un-
doubtedly great talent. A farther proof of this is.
Mercury being several degrees from the Sun, as this
planet, when within a few degrees (6 or 7) of the
Sun, is much weakened. Mercury in conjunction with
Herschel, and the Moon in trine to Herschel, renders
the native eccentric and fond of curious studies.
The close zodiacal parallel of Mercury with Saturn
will tend to add seriousness to the native’s character,
and, says Ptolemy, she will be “inquisitive, loqua-
cious, studious * * mystical * * improvident, cunnings
familiar with business, quick in perception, petulant,
accurate (in judgment), meditative, fond of employ-
ment.”
In short, this is no common-place nativity; this
scion of the great Byron will inherit much of his
wonderful mind, and be a shining star among the fair
nobility of England.
48 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
THE DURATION OF LIFE.
This point sh ould be decided, if it be the nativity
of a child we are about to judge, before any other
matter ;
as, if the heavens deny life, other matters
are of no consequence. The hyleg being supported
by benevolent planets in conjunction, parallel, or
good aspect, and being at the same time angular and
free from affliction, that is, the evil aspects of evil
planets, is the chief sign of life continuing; and in
proportion as the luminaries and ascendant are well
aspected by the benefics and among each other,
and free from evil aspects of malelics, the benefics
being in angles, will the constitution be strong; If
the hyleg, the lights, and the ascendant be . all afflicted,
the evil planets being angular, their ill aspects close,
and there be no assistance to the hyleg by the good
planets, the child will die in infancy : if there be
some assistance, but yet the evil exceed the good,
the constitution will be weak, and the first train of
evil directions will destroy. The last aspect formed
by the O and D is of great importance, and must
be well considered.
N.B. Weigh well all the testimonies before you
decide.
Example. —In Ada’s figure of birth, the Sun G be-
ing in the 9th house, is the hyleg. He has the mun-
dane sextile of Jupiter and Venus nearly, being
within 9° 2T of the $ of and 11° 14' of that of J .
He has also the semi-quartile of the benefics in the
zodiac, which assists to strengthen the constitution.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 49
for any aspect of the benefics has this effect, but
the good aspects most. The benefics being in an
angle, and in conjunction with each other, are power-
ful, but their power is something diminished by being
in aspect to Saturn. The Sun has also the trine
of the Moon in the world, the Moon being 7° 5' inside
the ascendant, and the Sun 2° 34' inside the 9th, which
houses are 4 houses apart, a a aspect. There is nothing
more to strengthen the Sun, and as he has nearly a
aspect of T? , being only 7° 2' off, and is within
9° 10' of a parallel to Saturn from the meridian by
rapt motion, and is in semi-quartile to Saturn in the
zodiac, and in zod. parallel to Herschel, who is evil,
though not so much so as Saturn, the hyleg is cer-
tainly not very strong in this nativity. The evil of
Saturn is somewhat abated by his having a mundane
A to the two benefics. As to the Moon and ascend-
ant, they are so near that they may be judged of
together. The presence of the Sun in A to them
both certainly strengthens those points ;
but Mars
being in the ascendant and close to the Moon, and
Saturn within 5° 46' of a semi-quartile, and jg and
Herschel near the middle of the 8th in sesquiquadrate
to the ascendant, weakens both of them extremely.
The evil clearly preponderates, and (as may be seen
in the table of directions) there being many ill direc-
tions in infancy to the hyleg (the Sun) and to the
Moon and ascendant, I am certain that this lady had
much ill health in infancy, and that she has by no
E
50 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
means a strong constitution
;
consequently she cannot
be expected to be free from many serious attacks of
illness, and it may be judged that she will not live to
a great age.
HURTS, INJURIES, AND DISEASES.
The ascendant and its opposite, and the planets
afflicting the hyleg, must be considered ;
and judgment
must be inferred from their general character. If
the Moon be afflicted by the Sun, the native is liable
to injuries in the eyes, especially if at the same time
she be afflicted by malefics and near nebulous stars,
such as the Pleiades. And if the ©, being hyleg, be
afflicted by Saturn, that evil planet being angular, the
native is liable to die of consumption. If the © be
setting at birth, and in the sign Leo (particularly when
in close <5 with Assellus in 6° of Leo), and be afflicted
by evil planets, the native is liable to injury byfire
;
and if the Moon at the same time be much afflicted
by Mars, and Mars be descending, the native is ex-
tremely likely to be burned to death. Observe, that
if both © and D be afflicted in the ascendant, the
native is liable to violent injuries or hurts ; and that
if the lights or afflicting planets are in or near the
7th, especially near the cusp, then considerable dis-
eases ensue*.
* As this work is merely to teach the elements of the
science, the student is referred to Ptolemy (Rook iii, chap. 17),
or to Wilson’s Astrological Dictionary, for further information
on this head.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 51
Example. —In the nativity we have been consider-
ing the Moon being in the ascendant, in close con-
junction with Mars (only 1° 34/ distant), I judge that
the native will be liable to suffer some injury or
accident by a blow or cut in the face, and may even
lose the sight of an eye, or have to undergo a sur-
gical operation. The period when this is most likely
to occur depends on the directions.
DISEASES OF THE MIND.
Observe the positions of Mercury, the Moon, and
ascendant. If these be unconnected with each other,
and be afflicted by Mars and Saturn, these evil stars
being in angles, and no assistance given by the be-
nefics, the persons born will be subject to epilepsy
or falling fits, and to insanity. If ^Saturn be so
posited by day and Mars by night,” the former dis-
eases will occur ;
but “ when Saturn may have domi-
nion by night or Mars by day (especially if in Cancer,
Virgo, or Pisces), the persons born will become
insane.” (See Ptolemy, Book iii, chap. 19.)
Example.—George the Third was born at 7h. 46m.
a. r, June 4th, 1738. Mars was on the cusp of the
meridian, squaring the ascendant, and in zodiacal
square to the Moon. Mercury was conjoined with
Saturn, and neither the Moon nor Mercury in any
aspect to the ascendant, or to each other. Under ill
directions the royal native became insane, according
e 2
52 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
io Ptolemy’s rule ;
and but for g having* a $ of %
,
he would have been so much earlier in life. The
conjunction of $ with Mercury assisted also., but
being with Saturn and applying to zod. of $ , she
could not prevent the disease entirely. ( See the
figure.)
THE FORTUNE OF WEALTH.
The position of the part of fortune,, the Sun and
Moon., and the aspects to these, must be referred to
for this matter. If they be in good position, that is,
angular, and well aspected of the benches, and
among themselves, the native will enjoy much wealth.
If they have a cadent situation, be under the earth,
and afflicted by ill aspects of the malefics, without
any assistance from the benehes, the native will always
be poor. Lf there be a mixture of these circum-
stances, the native will have a middling portion of
riches.
Jupiter has most power to give wealth. If he be
with the ©, and in parallel with or good aspect to
the Moon and angular, then wealth will flow in upon
the native amain.
Saturn, when strong, will, if throwing good aspects
(not being in conjunction or parallel), give the native
wealth by agriculture, buildings, &c. and, if % assist,
by inheritance.
Mars in the same way gives wealth by military
means. “ Venus by means of friends, especially
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 53
females, and by the dowry of wives. Mercury by
the sciences and by trade.” The D with 2(1 in an
angle brings riches ;
if with T? ,
poverty.
THE FORTUNE OF RANK.
The disposition of the luminaries, and the re-
spective familiarities, exercised by the stars attending
them, are to be considered as indicative of the degree
of rank or dignity/’ (Ptolemy, Book iv, chap. 3.)
In addition to this rule I consider the mid-heaven.
If the luminaries be well placed and aspected, and
there be good stars on the mid-heaven or approaching
thereto, or in good aspect to that point, and the lu-
minaries be in good aspect to each other, the native
will rank high in the world. If the lights be cadent,
and in no good aspect to the benefics or each other,
and the meridian have no good aspect of the lights or
benefics, the native never gains any fame ;
and if
afflicts the meridian, he meets disgrace. If Mars be
strong, and in good aspect to the meridian and the
lights, he may gain martial fame. % on the mid-
heaven, and the Sun and Moon in * to each other,
the Moon having the A of If, is one of the best po-
sitions for rising in the world. This was the case
with Arthur Duke of Wellington, who rose by the
power of his stars to the highest rank. I have never
seen this in any other nativity. % in the 10th house,
if not much afflicted, will alone cause the native to
54 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
do extremely well in the world. T? in that house,, if
not extremely well aspected, will bring him to shame
and beggary.
THE QUALITY OF EMPLOYMENT.
The planet nearest the Sun and that which is in
the mid-heaven (or aspecting), especially if in fami-
liarity with the Moon, has most influence in this ques-
tion. If Mercury alone rule, he makes writers and
travellers, merchants, &c. ;
connected with Saturn,
he causes them to “ become managers of the affairs
of others." If Jupiter aspect him, they will be
pleaders, painters, &c. or hold office about eminent
personages. Venus ruling makes wine-merchants,
dealers in colours, dyes, perfumes, drugs, &c., and
dealers in garments or apparel. See.
:
if connected
with Saturn, she makes persons have to do with
amusement, players, jugglers, &c. : if with Jupiter,
persons attending exhibitions, &c. ;
and I believe
priests who have much personal decoration —as ca-
tholic priests, bishops, &c. and they will gain by
females. Mars ruling alone makes martial men, and,
if in Cancer or Pisces, naval men. The Sun joined
with him, being near the mid-heaven, or in aspect,
makes persons dealing with fire or metals, the latter
especially if in Taurus or Leo. “ If Mars be sepa-
rated from the Sun, he makes shipwrights, smiths,
agriculturists, stonemasons, carpenters, and subor-
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 55
dinate labourers, &cP “If Saturn bear testimony,
in addition to Mars, persons become mariners, workers
in wells, vaults, &c. under ground, painters, keepers
of cattle, cooks, butchers, &c.” If Jupiter join with
Mars, they will be soldiers, innkeepers, tax-gatherers,
mechanics, &c. If Mercury and Venus become
joint arbiters of employment, they produce musi-
cians, dancers, poets, weavers, and painters, &c.
Jupiter in connection with them makes magistrates
and senators, as also teachers of youth. Mercury
joint with Mars makes surgeons, statuaries, boxers,
&c. N.B. If Mercury be most powerful, they will
be scientific ;
and if Mars be strongest, they will be
more violent or wickedly inclined, and cruel in their
practices. If Saturn join these two, they will be
thieves (especially if the Moon be in ill aspect to
Mercury) and swindlers ;
if D be in ill aspect to $ ,
they will be robbers or assassins. If Jupiter join
$ and $ , they engage in honourable warfare, and
are industrious. If Venus and Mars rule together,
persons will be dyers, workers in tin, lead, gold,
silver, medical drugs, and also physicians. Saturn
with them makes undertakers, grave-diggers, mutes,
&c. Jupiter will bring them support, by being
placed to govern over women, &c. and holders of
sacred offices.
If the D be near the mid-heaven, she causes many
changes of employment ;
and in Virgo or Scorpio, says
Ptolemy (to which maybe added Gemini and Pisces),
56 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
and in connection with $ (and especially if $ be on the
mid-heaven), she makes astrologers*. This is the more
likely, if Herschel be strong and aspected by g or
even D .
Observe. —These are merely the general elements
of the science on this head ;
and if the learner would
ascertain farther particulars, he should study Ptolemy
(Rook iv, chap. 4). And here let me advise him to
make due allowance for the different state of society
under which Ptolemy wrote ;
and not trust to Mr.
Wilson’s strictures on that great philosopher.
MARRIAGE.
As regards men, observe the Moon and Venus. If
}) be found between the eastern horizon and meri-
dian, or in the opposite quadrant, she causes them to
marry early in life, or, after they have passed their
prime, to women younger than themselves. If she
be in the other quarters of the figure, they will marry
late in life, or to women older than themselves. If
she be configurated with Saturn, it delays marriage
;
and if within a few degrees of the Sun, or in evil
aspect to the Sun, the same : if both these testimo-
nies concur, the D being at the same time occidental,
they never marry. If D be oriental, and especially
* It is remarkable that $ was in the mid-rheaven at the birth
of the late author of the Prophetic Messenger, and the author
of the True Prophetic Messenger, and also of Zadkiel the Seer
;
the Moon in each case having much connexion with J and y,
and also some other similar affections.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 57
if angular,, and in aspect to many planets, they being
strong, and she be situated in n, $ , or X, they may
marry more than once. If D apply to T? by aspect,
the wife will be morose and grave; if to l£, well
conducted and economical; if to <£, bold and re-
fractory ;
if to ? , cheerful and handsome ;
and if to
, a clever sensible woman. If $ be connected with
It, I?, or $, the wives will be provident and
attached to their families. If she be connected with
$ , they will be violent and ill-conducted, especially
if it be by evil aspect. If the ]) be in good aspect
to the ©, and the © be not afflicted, the native
marries a person of respectable connexions. If good
planets be found in the 7th house, the individual
(whether male or female) is happy in marriage ;
and
if evil planets be there, the reverse. Herschel in the
7th is evil ;
and if he afflict the Moon in a man’s na-
tivity, or the Sun in a woman’s, he destroy s domestic
happiness.—N.B. This, however, is a secondary
judgment.
For the marriage of women regard the Sun,
Venus, and Mars. If the Q be oriental, they marry
early, or to men younger than themselves ;
if © be
occidental, they marry late, or to elderly men. If
the Sun be angular, and in aspect to many planets,
especially from n, $ , or X, they marry more than
once. Saturn configurated to the © (if the© applies
to him) gives steady husbands, but morose ; Jupiter
gives honourable, noble characters; Mars violent.
58 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
rash, unfeeling men ;
Venus amiable, handsome
husbands ;
and Mercury clever, intelligent, and pro-
vident characters. If ? be with T? , or in aspect to
him, the husband will be dull and laborious ;
if with
%, just and honest ;
if with $ , rash men and adul-
terous ;
if with $ , clever, but fond of change.
—
N.B. If O or D apply to $ , the wife or husband will
be eccentric. If the Q have no aspect with Mars,
and Mars be weak in the figure, the female native
does not do well in marriage ;
and if O be in ill
aspect to 1? at the same time, she will be likely to
live single.
Example. —In the figure of the heavens at Ada’s
birth we find the © in A aspect to $ , this planet
being angular and strong ;
and this is a proof that
the native, if she live, will marry. As the O is occi-
dental and cadent, I judge that she will not marry
very early in life, or, if she do, that it will be to a
man some years her senior. The 0 has no other
application than the A of $ , and therefore, though
he be in f , I judge that she will never marry more
than once. The planet the O applies to being $
,
does not promise a very good husband ;
but yet as
there is a benevolent conjunction of % and $ in the
7th house, I believe that the evil effect of Mars will
be corrected; and besides, as $ has the parallel
declination of $ , who is very powerful, being an-
gular and joined with l£, the native’s husband will be
a good man, fond of his wife, and well conducted
;
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 59
but he may be what is called hasty* and at times a
little irregular. $ in T shews a man who is very
respectable* and probably one who holds some high
military rank. He will be a tall* fine-looking man*
with bushy* curling hair* reddish ;
one who is noble
and courageous.
CHILDREN.
The 10th and 11th houses* and their opposites*
must be considered. If no planets be in the 10th or
11th* consider whether there be any in aspect to
them* or placed in or aspecting the 4th or 5th houses.
The )) * , and ? give offspring ;
and O* $ ,
and
T? * deny children* or allot but few. $ acts accord-
ing as he may partake of the nature of the three former
or three latter ;
and if oriental he gives children* if
occidental he does not. If children are promised by
other planets* yet $ or T? be found in the 5th house*
especially in SI or n&* the native will lose many
children, and have much trouble by them. If the
benefics only be in the 5th* the native has much
happiness by his children.
Example, —In the nativity of Lord Byron’s
daughter* we find T? in the 11th house, and <£ in
aspect to the cusp of the 5th : these are testimonies
of no children ;
but as % and $ throw a ^ to the
10th* she may have some children born ;
but I judge
that she may hardly expect to have above one who
will live to adult age.
60 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
TRAVELLING.
The Sun,, Moon, Mars, and Part of Fortune, are to
be considered. If they, or the most of them, be
cadent, the native will travel. If the © alone be
cadent, it will cause many journies ;
but the Moon is
the chief significator of journeying and voyages.
Examples. —In the nativity of the Hon. Miss
Byron, w(? find the Sun cadent in the 9th, and ©
cadent in the 3d ;
hence I conclude that she will
take several journies in the course of her life, a,nd
be rather given to travel. In the nativity of this
young lady’s celebrated father, the Moon and Mars
were both cadent in the 9th, and the Sun in the 3d,
while the © was just fallen from the 7th angle; and
he, it is well known, spent most of his days in tra-
velling.
THE KIND OF DEATH.
If the ascendant and the hyleg be well aspected,
and if 2£, § , D , or g , well aspected, be placed in
the 8th house, the native dies a natural death. A
violent or remarkable death happens when both the
malefics attack both O and D , or even only one, and
at the same time the ascendant be afflicted. If an
evil planet be placed in the 8th house, it is an addi-
tional testimony of a violent death ;
but if it be
there when the other testimonies do not occur, then
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 61
it merely shews a painful death. T? causes slow
lingering deaths, and, $ causes them to be more
sudden.
Rule.—The nature of the death is to be judged
of chiefly by the directions in operation at the
time :
Saturn causes all cold diseases, coughs, agues,
rheumatism, consumption, dropsy, &c. ;
and if violent
symptoms are perceived, he brings death by blows,
falls, suffocation, &c.
Jupiter brings death by quinsey, impure state of
the blood, liver complaints, diseases of the lungs, &c.
If violence attend the death, it may be by sentence
of a judge.
Mars causes death by fever, wounds, spitting of
blood, erysipelas, childbirth, &c. If by violence,
he kills by gun-shot or swords, suicide or fire .
Venus produces death by cancer, scurvy, dysen-
tery, diabetes or wasting away, fistula, and putrid
diseases. If violence attend, she causes poison.
Mercury kills by fury, madness, melancholy, epi-
lepsy, coughs, and obstructions. If violence concur,
he brings death by accident in sport or by robbers.
The Moon. —When the ascendant or © be hyleg,
the Moon will assist in causing death by cold phleg-
matic diseases, and if she be placed in S3 , tR, or K ?
by drowning.
The Sun will assist to cause death by his ill aspects
to the ascendant or ]> if they be hyleg, and then he
62 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
acts like Mars, and if in Leo, will produce death by
fire, if other testimonies accord.
Observe.—The benelics cannot cause death of
themselves; and their or <§> aspect will frequently
save life when they fall amidst a train of evil direc-
tions. But if the influence is too powerful for them
to save, or they be themselves vitiated or too weak to
save, then they assist to cause death in the manner
described. Herschel cannot kill by himself, but his
ill aspects assist to destroy life ;
and where they
concur, will produce something- sudden, singular, or
extraordinary in the nature of the death.
Rule.—Death is always created by a train of
EVIL DIRECTIONS TO THE IIYLEG AND OTHER VITAL
points. And remember, that if the hyleg be not
afflicted, the life will not be destroyed, however evil
the directions, and however much they may injure
the health.
Example.—In the nativity of Ada, we find the
Moon in conjunction of Mars in the ascending
angle ;
and the Sun (hyleg) applying to a parallel of
Saturn; thus we may conclude that the native will
die, eventually, of some feverish complaint; and
though it may carry her off rather suddenly, yet I
judge that it will proceed from natural causes. It
is not unlikely that the position of Mercury in
the 8th house (he having- the declination of Saturn,
and therefore partaking of his evil nature) may bring
on the disease through a severe cold or cough, and
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 63
that considerable delirium may attend. —N.B. This
judgment is necessarily only of a general nature ;
as,
according to the rule, we must look chiefly to the
directions in operation at the fatal period.
CHAP. XI.
TO JUDGE OF THE EFFECTS OF DIRECTIONS.
Rule. Consider well the general nature of the
planet casting the aspect, and also the manner in
which he is situated as regards other planets at birth
and observe, also, what other directions are near at the
time ;
and then, according to the native’s situation
in life, judge of the effect.
1st, Saturn to an ill aspect of the ascendant brings
cold diseases and lingering complaints; in a watery
sign, danger of drowning, dropsy, &c. ;
in a fiery or
airy sign, danger of falls, blows, &c.; in an earthy
sign, accidents by being crushed or bruised, or
buried alive. His ill aspects to the M. C. cause
injury to the native’s affairs by death of relations,
being wronged by elderly persons, and a general
tendency to trouble and misfortune. His ill aspects
to the Sun produce similar effects, with much evil to
the native’s father, quarrels with persons in power,
or with his relations, especially his father. To the
Moon, much mischief to the native’s health, and
many troubles ;
his affairs go wrong, and he is gene-
64 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
rally unfortunate. To the ©, loss of property by
various means, often imperceptibly. The A or * of
Saturn to the ascendant or the D renders the native
grave and steady, and these aspects to either of the
five moderators (viz. Q, D, ©, ascendant, and
M. C.) will produce benefits by old persons, lega-
cies, &c. also by dealing in land or houses, or with
saturnine people or things.
2d, Jupiter The good aspects to either of the
moderators produce prosperity, increase of wealth,
new friends, honourable employment, the birth of
children, or their settlement in life, and an improved
state of health and much happiness. The semi-
quartile, , § , or sesquiquadrate, will cause quarrels
with clergymen, magistrates, landlords, &c., losses
in trade or by travelling, &c. ;
but, unless If. be ex-
tremely ill aspected at birth, his ill aspects by direc-
tion will not cause any permanent evil.
3d, Mars. —His evil aspects produce accidents by
fire, fire-arms, cuts, blows, injuries by animals, &c. ;
also violent diseases, especially if it be to the hyleg,
death of relations, &c. In airy signs he causes falls ;
in fiery, fevers, hurts by fire ;
in earthy, pestilential
complaints; in watery, scalds, fluxes, peril by water,
and inflammations. He causes losses by robbers,
fraud, &c. ;
and by means of military men, or persons
in power, he brings various injuries. But although
his conjunction with O is reckoned an evil aspect, it
will (if he be well aspected at birth) sometimes cause
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 65
military honors, or success in the native’s trade or
profession, when it is to the mid-heaven. His # or
A causes military advancement, the birth of children
(generally males), journeys, and success in trade or
employment, especially if a surgeon, chemist, or dealer
in metals. His good aspects frequently cause mar-
riage, especially in a female nativity, except those
to 0, which give increase of wealth only.
4th, The Sun. —The Sun acts in a medium manner
between the natures of Jupiter and Mars. If he
come to 6 of the Ascendant, being at birth well
aspected, he may give fame and reputation, and the
native is successful in all matters connected with
people in power. If he be ill aspected, he is likely
to give disease in the head ;
and if in a fiery sign, or
if the Sun be afflicted by Mars, it causes fevers. The
<5 with the M. C. will cause honours, if well aspected
at birth ; but if in conjunction with Mars at birth,
he may very likely cause evil. The O coming to
<5 with , will cause journies ;
and if D be well
situated, it gives some preferment ; if otherwise, it
brings sickness, especially humours in the head,
diseases in the eyes, &c. It frequently happens that
the native marries under this direction, especially if
others tending to produce marriage accompany it ;
but as it generally makes him fickle and extravagant,
such marriages are not fortunate, unless D be very
well situated at birth. The good aspects of the Sun
to the Ascendant, M. C., D , or 0, also his arrival by
F
66 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
direction to his own produce benefits, preferment,
increase of wealth, marriage, children, &c. If he be
well placed and aspected at birth, his return to his
own declination will also cause benefits, good success,
&c. His evil aspects cause disease, disgrace, loss
of friends, deaths of relations, and many evils. His
arrival at his own semi-quartile is evil: his own
square extremely so.
5th, Venus. —Her good aspects produce health,
and give an inclination to enjoy pleasure and amuse-
ment. She causes benefits by females, marriage, the
birth of children, their settlement in life, &c. Her
evil aspects cause trouble by females and by free
living, producing disease and discredit, disappoint-
ment in marriage, slander, and many vexations. If
the train of directions which causes death have
amongst it a or g of Venus, and she be evil at
birth, it may cause the native to be poisoned.
The M. C. to the § of $ will sometimes cause
marriage, but then it is rash and attended with
trouble.
6th, Mercury.— The good aspects cause journeys,
removals, much activity in business, and successful
law-suits. Also satisfaction by means of children
or young persons, literary characters, booksellers,
&c., and literary fame or success. His evil aspects
cause trouble by similar means, and also frauds by
young persons, servants, &c. The situation of $
at birth must be particularly noted, especially those
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 67
planets he is in zodiacal parallel with, as lie partakes
strongly of the nature of those planets he is con-
nected with by aspect or declination, and will act
accordingly. If he be evil at birth, and should come
to A or ill aspect of the D or the hyleg, he fre-
quently causes mental diseases, epilepsy, &c.
7th, The Moon. —Her good aspects to the Ascend-
ant or M. C, generally cause changes in life for the
better, long journeys, voyages, removals, &c. ;
to
the Sun, they give honors and emoluments, profitable
employment, popular favours, &c. and marriage ;
to
the 0, the same, or benefit by females, going to sea,
&c.; to her own % or parallel, either in the world or
the zodiac, the same ;
but these latter will depend
on her condition. Her ill aspects cause the reverse,
and if to the hyleg, will give cold, or dropsical
diseases; if in a watery sign, danger by water.
Her A with the O will cause fevers if the Sun be
evil at birth, and the Moon be hyleg. It causes an
unsettled state of his affairs, losses, many changes,
journies, and much vexation, if the Sun be evil
also diseases in the eyes, if it fall near the Pleiades,
Hyades, or other nebulous fixed stars. If the Sun
be fortunate at birth, it may give marriage or pre-
ferment, and profitable journies.
8th, Herschel,—This planet is not yet thoroughly
understood. His conjunction, parallels, or ill aspects
produce evil, generally of an unexpected, sudden, or
uncommon nature, but in a far less degree than
f 2
68 GRAMMAR OR ASTROLOGY.
either Saturn or Mars. They very frequently cause
the death of relations. His good aspects produce
benefits in the same way.
9th, The Dragon's Head £3 .—This can have no
elfect on any thing but the Moon. When she
arrives at that degree it was in at birth, fortunate
events are said to occur : I am not certain that
they do.
10th, The Dragon's Tail £$ .
—This also can only
affect the Moon. When she arrives at the degree
it was in at birth, evil is said to attend : I have seen
only one instance, where a child lost her father at
the time. It is worthy of the student’s attention.
CHAP. XII.
OF MUNDANE ASPECTS AND DIRECTIONS.
The positions of the planets as regards their
relative distances from each other in the twelve
houses produce another kind of aspects extremely
powerful in their operation. If they occur at birth,
they act upon the native all through life ;
if they are
found afterwards, they influence him for some weeks
(sometimes months) at that period of life to which
their arc extends.
A mundane ^ is when two planets are two houses
apart. Thus O on the meridian at noon and % on
the cusp of the 8th house are in mundane * . If 0
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 69
be half through the 9th, and If. half through the 7th,
they are still two houses apart and in mundane *
If © be on the cusp of the 9th and if. be in the 7th,
he will, when he arrives at the cusp of the 7th, be
arrived by direction at the O’s : and if If. at birth
be just belowr
the' 7th and the O in the 9th, he will,
when he arrives at the same distance below or past
the 9th (in proportion to his semi-arc as compared
with l{.’s semi-arc), be also arrived at l£’s
A mundane is thfc distance of three houses apart.
Thus, if D be rising at noon or midnight, when O
is on the meridian, they are in mundane , being
three houses apart ;
the same if D be setting at those
times. Example: In Ada’s nativity we find y a
short distance outside the cusp of the 9th, and T? a
short distance outside the 12th house ;
they are,
therefore, nearly in mundane ;
and as it is an evil
aspect they mutually increase each others evil.
A mundane A is four houses apart. Thus in
Ada’s figure of birth the © being near upon the
cusp of the 9th and 5) near the 1st house (which are
four houses apart) we say that the luminaries are in
mundane A. The effect is fortunate, and upholds
the native’s honour and character.
A mundane $ is six houses apart. Thus, a star
rising and another setting are in mundane opposition*
A mundane semi-quartile is one house and a half
apart
70 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
A mundane sesquiquadrate is four houses and a
half apart.
A mundane quintile is one-fifth of two-thirds of the
semi-arc of the planet you direct more than the * .
A mundane biquintile is one-tenth of the planet’s
semi-arc more than the sesquiquadrate.
Remark.—These mundane aspects are all measured
by the semi-arcs of the planets ;
therefore
A semi-quartile is one-half of a planet’s semi-arc.
A # is two-thirds of ditto.
An is an entire semi- arc.
A A is equal to a semi -arc and one-third more.
A sesquiquadrate is equal to a semi arc and a half.
And observe, that whenever an aspect is measured
between two planets, any other aspect may be ascer-
tained, if it also fall in the same hemisphere, by
merely taking the requisite proportion of the semi-
arc of the planet to be directed. Thus, if we know
the distance between two planets, that is the arc of
direction to the conjunction
;
then one-half of the
semi-arc of the planet which is directed added to that
will give the arc of direction to the semi-quartile ; by
adding one-sixth part of the semi-arc to this we have
the arc of direction to the % ;
one-third more of the
semi-arc will give the , and another third the a;
to which add one-sixth for the sesquiquadrate.
N.B. If the planet directed should pass the horizon
in forming either of these aspects, that is, if the arc
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 71
of direction should be longer than the planet’s dis-
tance from the horizon, then its other semi-arc must
be used for those aspects which fall beyond the ho-
rizon. Great care is to be taken to avoid errors
by taking the wrong semi-arc : this may always be
done by observing, that if the aspect falls above the
earth, the semi-diurnal arc is to be taken ;
and if
below the earth, the semi-nocturnal arc is to be
taken of that planet which is directed.
CHAP. XIII.
OF THE MUNDANE PARALLELS.
These are as important as any mundane aspect in
their effects, both at birth and when found by direc-
tion. They consist of equal proportional distances
from the meridian ; thus, if two stars, having the
same semi- arcs, are at an equal distance from the
meridian on opposite sides, they are in mundane
parallel.
Example.— O’s semi-arc be 60°, and he be 20°
distant from the meridian, while D , having also the
semi-arc of 60°, be 20° distant from the meridian,
they are in mundane parallel. If, however, the O be
so situated while the D has the semi-arc of 120°, or
double that of ©, she will require to be 40° distant
from the meridian, or double the O’s distance, to be
in mundane parallel with him.
Example. —In the nativity of Ada, T? is placed
72 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
in the 11th,, at the distance of 37° 58' from the
meridian, his semi-arc being 64° 24'. The Sun is in
the 9th, approaching to a parallel distance from
the meridian with Saturn ;
the © has the semi- arc of
57° 55', which is less than that of T? ;
therefore,
when the Sun is at a distance of 34° 9' from the
meridian, he will be in mundane parallel with T?
,
because the O’s semi-arc bears the same proportion
to 34° 9' as T? ’s semi-arc bears to his distance from
the meridian, which is 37° 58'.
CHAP. XIV.
OF THE PART OF FORTUNE.
If the ©be exactly ascending at birth, the place
of © will be exactly that in which the Moon is at
that time ;
therefore, whatever distance the Sun is
from the Moon (measured by oblique ascension), so
far is the Part of Fortune from the Ascendant : hence,
to find the right ascension of ©, observe the fol-
lowing
Rule.—Add 90° to the A. R. of the M. C., and it
will give the oblique ascension of the Ascendant.
From the oblique ascension of the Ascendant subtract
the oblique ascension of the Sun (having first added
360° to the former, if it be less than the latter) ;
to
the remainder add the A. R. of 1) : the sum will be
the A. R. of ©
.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 73
Example.—In Ada’s nativity, the A. R. of
the M. C. is 2730 19'
To which add 90 0
363 19
Subtract 360 0
It gives the oblique ascension of the Asc. 3 19
Add 360 0
363 19
Subtract O’s oblique ascension 288 40
Remainder ...» 74 39
To which add D ’s A. R 7 15
It gives the A. R. of 0 81 54
To find the Situation of the Part of Fortune
in the Figure at Birth.
Rule. —Find its distance from the nearest meridian
bearing in mind that the 0 is always under the
horizon before the full Moon,, at which time it is on
the cusp of the 7th house, and that after full Moon it
is always above the horizon.
Example. —In Ada’s nativity the 0 is under the
horizon, because the D had not reached the full. The
A. R. of the meridian under the earth is 93° 19', from
which, if we take the A. R. of 0 81° 54', the re-
74 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
mainder is 1 1° 25', the distance of © from the meri-
dian, which, as it does not amount to one-third of
the semi-arc of © (93° 9'), shews that ® is in the
3d house,
N.B. The semi-arc of © is always that of the D ,
if they are both above or under the horizon; but if
one be above and the other under the horizon, the ®
will have the opposite semi-arc to D ,
which may be
found by taking the semi-arc of D from 180 de-
grees.
Observation. —-Mr. Wilson, in his “Dictionary of
Astrology/5
p. 306, says that the Part of Fortune
“is really nothing but a phantom hatched in the
figurative brain of Ptolemy, which has no influence
whatever.” I certainly must demur to this dictum,
as I have found by experience that, if calculated in
the manner 1 have here explained, and the directions
to it be correctly calculated also, and no false direc-
tions made (such as aspects in the zodiac, which do
not apply to ©), there will be found very consider-
able eflects. I respect Mr. Wilson as a friend of
truth ;
but I think that in treating on Astrology he
has, in some few instances, thought too much of
reason and too little of experience. It is true, that
we cannot explain the influence of ©, nor can we
explain that of any planet ;
but we must remember,
that “two bodies, at a distance, will put one another
into motion by the force of attraction ;
which is un-
explicable by us, though made evident to us by
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 75
experience, and so to be taken as a principle in
natural philosophy.” These are the words of the
great Locke ;
and they justify our faith in the influ-
ence of © if made evident “ by experience though
it be, indeed, “ unexplicable” by reason, in our
present state of knowledge.
CHAP. XV.
OF THE HYLEG AND THE HYLEG1ACAL PLACES.
The hyleg, or giver of life, is 1st the O, if found
in a hylegiacal place ;
2d, the D , if she be so found,
when O is not ;
lastly, the luminaries being neither
of them in hylegiacal places, the degree ascending
becomes hyleg. The hylegiacal places are from 5
degrees above the ascending horizon to 25 degrees
below it, measured by oblique ascension ;
also from
half way between the ascendant and mid-heaven unto
5 degrees beyond the cusp of the 9th house; lastly,
from 5 degrees below the 8th house to 5 degrees
below the 7th or descendant.
N.B, The ascendant or ]) receiving evil aspects by
direction will at all times be likely to affect the health,
whether hyleg or not. And if the Moon be beyond
the exact 5 degrees of any hylegiacal house, yet if
within a short distance, she will cause a great deal of
danger ;
and if the hyleg be at the same time
afflicted, though only slightly, the native will very
76 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
probably die. It bas been said that if ® be in a
hylegiacal place when neither luminary is so situated,,
it becomes hyleg. I do not deny the possibility of
this doctrine* though it has never yet been confirmed
by my own experience ;
nor should I direct to it as
hyleg, because I have hitherto found that its chief
effects were upon the native’s pecuniary circum-
stances.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY, 77
SECOND BOOK.
CHAP. I.
ZODIACAL DIRECTIONS.
The O, D * ascendant, and mid-heaven, only can
be directed in the zodiac. The principle on which
these directions are to be made is the subtraction of
the oblique ascension of the moderator, taken under
its own pole, from the oblique ascension of the place
of the aspect taken under the. same pole.
The pole of the O or D is a certain elevation they
have from the meridian towards the horizon ;
hence,
if they be exactly on the meridian they have no pole,
and the arc of direction must be found by right
ascension : hence also the mid-heaven itself, having
no pole, must be directed by right ascension only.
If the O or D be exactly on the horizon, they will
have the polar elevation of the horizon itself ;
which
is always the latitude of the country. Hence the
ascendant, when it is directed in the zodiac, must
always be directed under the pole or latitude of the
place of birth.
Observe.—The place of the aspect or promittor
must be taken without latitude in all directions in
the zodiac, except those of the ]) ;
for when D is
78 GRAMMAR of astrology.
i
directed to any point, the latitude she will have
when she arrives at that point must first be ascer-
tained. If the D be directed to the conjunction of
any planet, and when she arrives at the longitude of
that point she should have great latitude of an oppo-
site nature to the planet, so that there shall be 8 or
more degrees difference of latitude between them,
the direction will have little or no effect. If, for
example, $ have 5 degrees north latitude, and D
when she comes to £ of $ have 5 degrees of south
latitude, then the £ will have no power. If it
should be to an 8 , however, then the exact opposite
place of J would have 5 degrees of contrary lati-
tude, and the aspect (if D had 5° south and ? 5°
north latitude) would be perfect. Therefore we
must observe that if, on coming to an § , the I) have
extensive latitude of the same name as the planet, the
direction is weak.
TO DIRECT 0 TO ANY ASPECT IN THE ZODIAC,
EXCEPT A PARALLEL.
First. Find the O’s polar elevation from the me-
ridian, termed the Sun’s pole, by the following
Rule 1.—-As O’s semi-arc is to 90 degrees, so is
O’s meridian distance to the difference between its
circle ofposition and that of the meridian.
CHAP. II.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 79
Rule 2. —Find the difference between this differ-
ence and ©’s meridian distance, which is the O’s
ascensional difference in his pole.
Rule 3. —Find the logarithm sine of this ascen-
sional difference ;
add thereto the logarithm co-tan-
gent of O’s declination: the sum is the logarithm
tangent of the O’s pole.
Example. —In Ada’s nativity (from which we will
take all our examples), the O’s semi- arc is 57° 55',
and O’s meridian distance is 16° 44'.
1st. Then add the arithmetical comple-
ment of the proportional logarithm
of O’s semi-arc 9.5075
To the proportional logarithm of 90° . . 3010
And the proportional logarithm of
O meridian distance 1.0317
.8402
The sum is the proportional logarithm of
the difference of its circle and that of
the meridian 26° O'
2d. The difference of the circles of position
is 26° O'
The O’s meridian distance , .... 16 44
The difference is O’s ascensional differ-
ence in his pole 9 16
80 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
3d. The logarithm sine of this ascen-
sional difference is 9.20691
Add the logarithm co-tangent of G’s
declination 22° 54' 10.37426
The sum is the logarithm tangent of
the pole of O = 20° 52' 9.58117
Second. Ascertain the oblique ascension of O
under his own pole, if he be ascending, or his oblique
descension, if he be descending. — N.B. 0 is ascend-
ing from midnight till noon, and descending from
noon till midnight.
Rule 1.—Add the ascensional difference to the
A. R. if the declination be south, but subtract it from
the A. R. if the declination be north; the result is
the oblique ascension.
Rule 2. —For the oblique descension do the re-
verse : add the ascensional difference if the declina-
tion be north, subtract it if the declination be south.
Example. —The 0’s A. R. is 256 35
The declination is south, subtract the
ascensional difference 9 16
It gives G’s oblique descension under
his pole 247 19
Third. Find the declination of the place of the
aspect, and look in the tables* for the logarithm of its
* These tables may be had in any common book of navigation,
&c. with instructions for their use.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 81
tangent to which add the logarithm tangent of O’s
pole. The sum will be the logarithm of the sine of
the aspect’s ascensional difference under that pole.
With this ascensional difference find its oblique
ascension or descension, as you did that of O.
Lastly. Subtract that of O from that of the aspect,
and the remainder will be the arc of direction.
Example. —Direct the O to of ]) in the zodiac.
The D is in T 5° 39' : when O comes to 5° 39', he
will form a aspect to the place of D at birth.
The declination of the aspect Vf 5° 39'
is 23° 21/? its logarithm tangent. . 9.63519
The logarithm tangent of the O ’s pole
20° 52' is . 9.58117
Their sum is the logarithm sine of the
ascensional difference of the aspect
under O’s pole 9° 28' . , . . ...... 9.21636
Then from the A. R. of V 5° 39', which is 276 9
Subtract the ascensional difference as its
declination is south . 9 28
It leaves the oblique descension of the
aspect under O’s pole 266 41
From which subtract the oblique descen-
sion of O under O’s pole 247 19
And this will be the arc of direction
of O D in zodiac. 19 22
82 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
To those who think the above a tedious operation,
wr
e observe, that if the G’s pole, &c. be once found,
in all other of the directions you have only to go
through the last two heads of the rule. But here
follows
A Method to direct 0 in the Zodiac without
recourse to Tables of Logarithms.
First. If the birth be any where in Great Britain,
it will fall within the latitudes of 50° and 58° north.
Then by referring to the table of poles of houses, at
the end of this work, you will find the poles of the two
houses between which 0 may be situated. Find the
difference between these poles, also the distance the
G is situated from that to which he is nearest. Then,
to find the G’s pole, say.
As one-third the G’s semi-arc is to the difference
of pole between the two houses, so is G’s distance
from the nearest house to a correction.
Apply this correction to the pole of the house to
which 0 is nearest, subtracting it from the pole of
the house if 0 be not past the cusp of the house,
but adding it if 0 be past the house ;
and the result
will be the pole of O very nearly.
Example. —In the nativity of Ada the 0 is in the
9th house, being less than one-third of his semi-arc
from the meridian ;
he is moreover very near the
cusp of the 9th.
GUAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 88
Pole of the 9th house for lat. of London 23 47
Pole of the 10th house 0 0
Difference of pole between two houses. . 23 47
As the one-third of O’s semi-arc 19° 18' is to the
difference of pole between the two houses 23° 47', so
is O’s distance from 9th house 2° 34' to a correction
3o 10'.
Thus,, as 19 18 are
© i
to 23 47, so are
0 /
2 34.
60 60 60
1158 1427 154
154
5708
, 7135
1427
1 1 58)219758( 189 or nearb' 190 mi-
1 i nutes of a decree,
1105
which are 3° 10'.
10395
9264
11318
10422
896
84 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY*
This correction must be subtracted from the pole
of the 9th; as the ©, not being* one-third of his semi
arc from the meridian, is not past the 9th house.
Pole of the 9th house 23 47
Correction to be subtracted ...... 3 10
Pole of the © very nearly ....... 20 37
N.R The true pole of the © is 20° 52', so that
this method leaves an error of 15 minutes of a de-
gree, which might throw out the arc of direction a
month; and the error in the pole when the star
is near the middle of a house may be more con-
siderable.
Second. Having the ©’s pole., find his oblique
descension (since he is descending) under this pole,
by subtracting the ascensional difference from the
A. R.
N.B. The ascensional difference for the declination
of ©, which is 22° 54' S., gives, by Wilson’s tables,
p. 40 (after making proportion), just 9° 9'.
Then A. R. of © 266 35
Subtract ascensional diff. (dec. being 8.) 9 9
Gives O ’s oblique descension in his own
pole of 20o 37
r
247 26
Third. Let the aspect be the of D ;
then as ])
is in °f 5° 39', the falls in VS 5° 39', the declination
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.. 85
of which is 23° 21'. Now find the oblique descension
of this aspect: first* its A. R. is 276° 9'* and its
ascensional difference (found in the same table as that
of O after making proportion) amounts to 9° 20'.
Then A. R. of aspect of D is .276 9
Asc. diff. of aspect under pole of Q . . 9 20
Oblique desc. of aspect under O pole 266 49
Subtract the oblique descension of 0
under his pole 247 26
And it leaves the arc of direction of 0
D zodiac 19 23
N.B. This is sufficiently correct* as it comes
within one minute of the arc when worked by loga-
rithms* which is 19° 22'* as may be seen at page 8L
CHAP. III.
TO DIRECT 0 TO A PARALLEL IN THE ZODIAC.
Ride 1.—-Look in the table of declination for the
declination to which you desire to direct the 0* which
you will find in the column marked 0 at the top
then note what longitude it answers to in the first
column* and find the A. R. answering to this lon-
gitude.
Rule 2. —Find the logarithm tangent of the re-
quired declination ;
add to it the logarithm tangent
86 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
of the pole of 0 ;
the sum is the logarithm sine of
the ascensional difference of the aspect under that pole.
Rule 3.—Find the oblique ascension or descension,
according as the © is ascending or descending ;
and
from it take the oblique ascension or descension of
the O : the remainder is the arc of direction.
Example.—Required to direct the Sun to the pa-
rallel declination of Herschel, in Ada’s nativity.
The declination of $ is 21° 35' south, which is
the declination 0 will have when he reaches Vf 22°
30', the A. R. of which is 294° 19'.
To the logarithm tangent of the declina-
tion 21 0 35
7
9.59725
Add the logarithm tangent of the pole of
0,200 52'... 9.58117
The sum is the logarithm sine of the as-
censional difference of the aspect under
the pole of 0, 8° 40'. .......... .. 9.17842
Then from the A. R. of the aspect 294 19
Take the ascen. difference as above found 8 40
It gives the oblique descension of the
aspect under the pole of 0 285 39
From this subtract the oblique descen-
sion of 0 under his pole 247 19
And there remains the arc of direction of
0 to a zodiacal parallel of § 38 20
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 87
To work the above without Logarithms.
The pole of ©, as already found by the Rule of
Three, is 20° 37' ;
then under this elevation of the
pole, and opposite the declination of y 21° 35', will
be found the ascensional difference, after making-
proportion, 8° 33'.
From the A. R. of the aspect 294 19
Take its ascensional difference in O ’s pole 8 33
It leaves the oblique desc. in that pole . . . 285 46
From which take 0’s oblique descension
as found by the tables 247 26
It leaves the arc of direction of © paral-
lel $ zodiac 38 20
N.B. The tables here used are those under the
title of “ Tables to be used in Calculating Nativities
compiled by the Author, and published by Messrs.
Sherwood and Co.
88 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
CHAP. IV.
TO DIRECT THE MOON IN THE ZODIAC TO ANY
ASPECT, EXCEPT A PARALLEL.
First. —
A
s in case of O* find the D ’s pole and
her oblique ascension or descension under her pole.
1st. To find the pole of ]) > add the proportional
logarithm of ’s semi-arc (taking its arithmetical
comp.) to the proportional logarithm of 90 degrees^
which is 30 10,, and the proportional logarithm of
D
?
s meridian distance ;
the sum is the proportional
logarithm of the difference of the circles of position.
2d. Find the difference between the meridian dis-
tance of D and the difference of the circles of posi-
tion, and that will be the ascensional difference of
D under her pole.
3d. Take the logarithm sine of the ascensional dif-
ference; add to it the logarithm co-tangent of the
]) ’s declination : the sum is the logarithm tangent
of ]) ’s pole.
Example.—Find D ’s pole in Ada’s nativity.
Proportional logarithm of ]) ’s semi-arc 93° 91
(its
arithmetical complement) a 9.7139
Proportional logarithm of 90 degrees 3010
Prop. log. of ]) ’s merid. dist. 86° 41 3204*
Prop. log. of the difference ——
—
in circle of position 83 10 3353
}) ’s asc. diff. in her pole 2 54 log. sine of this 8.70409
Add log. co-tangent ]) dec. 2°30/
.. 11.35991
Sum is log. tangent of ]) 's pole 49° 12' ........ 10.06400
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 89
Second.—1. To find the oblique ascension of D
in her pole, add the ascensional difference if the decli-
nation be south ; subtract the ascensional difference,
if the declination be northt
to or from the A. R.
2. To find the oblique descension, do the reverse.
Example. —-A. R. of D 7 15
Declination south,
plus ascens. diff. . . 2 54
Sum is oblique ascen. of D in her pole 10 9
Third.-- Find the oblique ascension or descension
of the aspect under the pole of ]) ;
and subtract the
D ’s oblique ascension or descension from it : the
remainder is the arc of direction.
N.B. The latitude of the D in the aspect must be
first noted to find her true A. R. and declination
therein.
Example. —Direct J to a £ of $ in Ada’s nati-
vity.
Mars is in 20° 26' of <YS at which, when the D
arrives, she will have 4° 45' south latitude, and
3° 34' north declination ;
then add to the loga-
rithm tangent of this declination .... 8.79470
The logarithm tangent of the pole of D 10.06400
%
The sum is the log. sine of the ascensional
difference of the aspect in D ’s pole . . 8.85870
Which is 4° 9'
90 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
The A. R. of 20° 26' with 4° 45>
south 0 ,
latitude is 20 40
From which take the ascensional dif-
ference, the declination being north . . 4 9
The sum is the oblique ascension of the
aspect in pole of D . 16 31
Lastly.
—
Take from the aspect’s oblique
ascension in the pole of]) 16 31
The oblique ascension of D in her pole, 10 9
The remainder is the arc of direction of
}) 6 $ zodiac 6 22
To direct the > to Aspects in the Zodiac (the
Parallel excepted) by common Arithmetic.
To find the pole of D
,
say. As the one-third of
the semi-arc of }) is to the difference of the poles of
the two houses between which she is situated, so is
j) ’s distance from the nearest house to the correction
;
then apply this correction by adding it to or sub-
tracting it from the pole of the house, according as
is past the cusp or not.
Example. —In Ada’s nativity, as one-third of }) ’s
semi-arc 31° 3' is to the difference of pole between
the 2d and 1st houses, 10° 40', so is ’s distance
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 91
from 1st house (to which she is nearest) 7° 5' to the
correction 2° 26'.
0 1 0 1 0 I
Thus, 31 3 : 10 40 : : 7 5
60 60 60
1863 640 425
640
17000
2550
1863)272000(146 min. or 2° 26'.
1863
8570
7452
11180
11178
2
Pole of the ascendant to which D is nearest 51 31
Subtract the correction. ... 2 26
The D ’s pole, very nearly 49 5
N.B. This comes within 7 minutes, as ) ’s true
pole is 49° 12'.
Then, to find the ]) ’s ascensional difference under
this pole, look for it under that polar elevation and
the Moon’s declination, 2° 30'.
92 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
The tables give (after making proportion) 2° 53
true to within one minute.
To the > ’s A. R 7 15
Add the ascensional difference 2 53
And you have D ’s oblique asc. in her pole 10 8
Next find the A. R. of the aspect (suppose 6 $)
20° 26' <*r ,
in which ]) will have 4° 45' south lati-
tude,, it is 20° 40', and the declination is 3° 34' north.
The ascensional difference of this declination by
tables under the pole of 49° 5' is 4° 7', which take
from the A. R. 20° 40', as the declination is north,
and it leaves the oblique ascension of the aspect
under 3) ’s pole 16° 33'.
Lastly, from the aspect’s oblique ascension 0
under ])’s pole 16 33
Take the ]) ’s obi. asc. under her pole . ... 10 8
It leaves the arc of direction of D 6 $ zod. 6 25
N.B. This differs 3 minutes from that worked by
logarithms, and will throw out the time of the event
about a fortnight ;
but the student may think himself
very correct if he can come within a month in his
prediction by the primary directions. The secondary
directions and progresses, transits, lunations, &c.
will often enable him to come within a week of the
time of the event.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 93
CHAP. Y.
TO DIRECT THE MOON TO PARALLELS OF
DECLINATION.
Rule 1.—Look in the Ephemeris for the days suc-
ceeding the birth, and see at what time the D falls
on the declination you require ;
then calculate by
proportion the latitude and longitude she will have
at that time.
Ride 2.—Find the A. R. for that latitude and lon-
gitude, and take from or add to it the ascensional
difference given by the required declination under the
D ’s pole : the result will be the oblique ascension or
oblique descension of the aspect. The D ’s oblique
ascension or descension taken from it will leave the
ARC OF DIRECTION.
N.B. Find D ’s pole as taught in chap. iv.
Example —1 desire to bring D to a parallel of
$ ’s declination in Ada’s nativity.
I find that D ’s declination on the 12th December
is 7 Q 22', and on the 13th it is 12° 16'; then. If the
difference 4° 54' is equal to 24 hours, what will the
difference between the declination at noon on the
12th, 7° 22', and the declination of <£
8° 23', which
is 1° 1', amount to? Answer : 4 hours 59 minutes ;
at which time, on the 12th, I find the X> is in longi-
tude 2 J
36' # , with 4° 10' south latitude.
94 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
The A.R. answering to this latitude and longitude
is 31° 58 .
Then to the logarithm tangent of the
declination $ 8° 23' 9.16841
Add the logarithm tangent of the D ’s
pole 49° 12' 10.06400
It giyes the logarithm sine of the
aspect’s ascensional difference 9°50/
=9.23241
Now, from the A. R. of the aspect 31 58
Take the ascensional difference under
]) ’s pole 9 50
It leaves the oblique ascension under
X> ’s pole 22 8
From which subtract the D 's oblique
ascension in her pole 10 9
The remainder is the arc of direc-
tion of 3) to the zodiacal parallel
of $ 11 59
N.B. There are no directions more powerful than
the parallels in the zodiac ;
they merit the greatest
attention. It is observed that their effects are felt a
few weeks before the arc of direction is complete.
*** To work this direction by common arithmetic,
see the rules in Chap. iv.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 95
CHAP. VI.
TO DIRECT THE ASCENDANT TO ASPECTS IN
THE ZODIAC.
Rule 1.—Add 90° to the A. R. of the mid-heaven
at birth, and it gives the oblique ascension of the
ascendant under the pole (or latitude) of birth.
Rule 2. —Look in the Table of Declinations for
the declination of the aspect, which is found in the
column marked 0 at the top, opposite its longitude.
Rule 3. —Find the A. R. of that longitude without
latitude.
Rule 4. —To the logarithm tangent of the pole of
the 1st add the logarithm tangent of the delination
of the aspect: the sum will be the logarithm sine of
its ascensional difference.
Rule 5. —Take this ascensional difference from the
A. R. if the declination be north, or add it thereto if
the declination be south: the result is the oblique
ascension of the aspect under the pole of the country.
Lastly.—'Subtract the oblique ascension of the
ascendant from the oblique ascension of the aspect,
and the remainder is the arc of direction.
Example. —Direct the ascendant to I? in the
zodiac.
1. The A. R. of the mkLheaven is 273° 197
, to
which add 90°, and we have 363° 19' : as it is be-
96 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
yond 360°, deduct the circle from it, and we have
3° 19' for the oblique ascension of the ascendant
under its pole.
2. The of T? falls in 8° 36' of g > the declina-
tion of which is 14° 23'.
3. The A.R. of 8° 36' of g is 36° 12'.
4.
To the logarithm tangent of the pole
of the 1st house, 51° 3T 10.09965
Add the logarithm tangent of the de-
clination of 8a
36' g 14° 23' .... 9.40900
It gives the logarithm sine of its ascen-
sional difference 18° 49' 9.50865
5.
From the A.R. of the aspect 36 12
Take the ascensional difference, the
declination being north 18 49
It gives the oblique asc. of the aspect 17 23
Lastly. From this take the oblique as-
cension of the ascendant ........ 3 19
The remainder is the arc of the as-
cendant T? zodiac 14 4
To work this Direction without Logarithms .
The 1st, 2d, and 3d heads of the rule are the same
as in last example.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 97
4th. Look in the Tables of Elevation of the Pole
for the declination 14° 23', under the pole of 51° 31':
it gives the ascensional difference, after making pro-
portion, just the same as by the logarithms, 18° 49'.
Having found this, proceed to the end as above.
N.B. For the benefit of the young student, we will
here give the calculation from the Tables to shew
how it is to be made.
The ascensional difference opposite 14° of decli
nation, and under 51° Elevation of the pole, is 17°
56' ;
under the same pole and opposite 15° of declina-
tion is 19° 19'; the difference for one degree is there-
fore 1° 23' of ascensional difference. Then say. If (one
degree) 60' give (1° 23') 83', what will 23', the
amount of declination beyond 14°, give? Answer:
31 minutes 49 seconds.—Next find the difference of
ascensional difference between the pole of 51° and
52°; opposite 14° of declination 51° gives 17° 56',
and 52° gives 18° 37'
;
the difference is 4F. Then
say again. If 60' give 41 ', what will 31' give? An-
swer: 21 minutes 11 seconds. Now add this cor-
rection for the 3T of polar elevation above the even
51° to that for the 23 minutes of declination above
the even 14°; thus: 3F of pole give -f- 2F 11"
23' of dec. give -f 31 49
Total + 53 0
This is to be added to the ascensional difference
H
98 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
for the even 14° of declination and 51° of Q
polar elevation, which is 17 56
Add the total correction 0 53
It gives the exact ascensional dif-
ference of the aspect with declina-
tion 14° 23' under the pole 51° 31' . 18 49
A little practice will enable the student to make
these corrections by a mental calculation, by merely
taking the aliquot parts of the degree.
CHAP, VII.
TO DIRECT THE MID-HEAVEN TO ASPECTS IN
THE ZODIAC.
Rule. —Take the difference between the A. R. of
the M. C. and the A. R. of the aspect for the arc of
direction.
Example. —Find the arc of the M. C. of $ in
the zodiac.
The of $ falls in pf 20° 26'; its A, R. is 292 7
Subtract the A. R. of M. C. 273 19
The remainder is the arc of direction . 18 48
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 99
CHAP. VIII.
OF MUNDANE DIRECTIONS TO THE ANGLES ;
THAT IS, TO THE ASCENDANT OR M. C.
These are merely the divisions of the semi-arcs of
the planets : thus, J is a semi-quartile ; | a ^ ; the
whole of the semi-arc a ;
one semi- arc and ^ of
another a A ;
one semi-arc and a half, a sesquiqua-
drate, &c. A semi-arc always bearing the same
proportion to the 12 houses as 90 degrees do to the
circle or 12 signs of the zodiac, it follows that § of
it form a # aspect, as § of 90° are 60°, a * in the
zodiac, &c. &c.
To find the Arc of Direction to a Semi-qncir-
tile of the M. C.
Rule. —The difference between half the semi-arc
and the meridian distance of the planet is the arc of
direction ;
because, when the planet is exactly half
its semi-arc off the M.C., it is in semi-quartile aspect
to that angle.
Example.—I? semi-arc is 64° 24" ;
half is 32° 12',
which taken from J? ’s meridian distance 37° 58',
gives the arc of M C. to the semi-quartile of £
5o 46\
100 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
To find the Arc of Direction to a * of M. C\
Rule.—The difference between the planet’s meri-
dian distance and § of its semi-arc is the arc of direc-
tion.
Example.—From O 5
s meridian distance 16° 44
;
to § of its semi-arc 38° 37', the difference is 21° 53 7
;
the arc of direction of M. C. >{<0.
To find the Arc of Direction to a of M. C.
Rule. —The difference between the planet’s meri-
dian distance and its semi-arc is the arc of direc-
ti0n '
0 ,
Example.—The semi-arc of If is. .... . 75 34
The meridian distance of If is. .... . 62 52
The diff. is the arc of M. C. if . . 12 42
To find the Arc of Direction to a a of M, C.
Rule.—If the planet be above the Earth, add one-
third of its semi-arc (nocturnal) to the arc for its
of M. Ca If under the Earth, the difference between
its meridian distance and § of its semi-arc is the arc
of direction.
Example.
— If being above the Earth, to
the arc of M. C. if . 12 42
Add J of the semi-arc of Of (nocturnal) 34 49
The sum is the arc of M. C. a If . . 47 31
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 101
INFERIOR ASPECTS.
Tofind the Arc of the Quintile to the M. C.
Rule.—If the quintile be in the 7th house, take ^
of the semi-arc from the arc for the . If it be in
the 12th house, subtract from £ of the semi-arc the
distance the planet is from the ascendant.
0 1
Example 1. —The O’s semi-arc is . . . 57 55
O meridian distance. 16 44
Arc of M. C. 0 ...... . 41 11
Subtract ^ of © semi-arc 11 35
Arc of M. C. quintile O 29 36
Example 2.—Semi-arc of the (diurnal)
is 86° 5 V, of which £ is 17 22
Then 17° 22' is the distance the D must
be from the ascendant to form the
quintile with the M. C. ;
and as ])
is not yet risen, her distance from
the ascendant 7° 5' must be added
to it 7 5
Arc of M. C. quintile of the D ..... 24 27
102 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
To find the Arc of the Sesquiquadrate to
the M. C.
Rule
.
—If in the 2d, subtract ^ of the semi-arc
from the arc for the A ;
if in the 5th, add ^ of the
semi-arc to the arc for the a .
Another Rule.—Take half the planet’s semi-arc,
and find the difference between it and the planet’s
meridian distance, which will be the arc to the semi-
quartile of the 4th house, or sesquiquadrate of the
M. C.
Example.—| of the semi-nocturnal arc of % is
17° 24', which, added to the arc for his A to M. C.
47° 31', amounts to 64° 55', the M. C. to the sesqui-
quadrate of %.
To find the Arc of the Biquintile to the M. C.
Ride.—To the arc for the sesquiquadrate add ^ of
the semi-arc if the aspect fall in the 5th house, and
subtract ^ of the semi- arc if it fall in the 2d house.
N.B. This direction is of no consequence with the
evil planets ;
it is but weak with the benefics.
To find the Arc to the 6 or $ of M. C,
Rule. —If the planet be ascending, its meridian
distance is the arc to the 6 M. C.; and if it be
descending, its meridian distance is its arc to the g
of M. C. This needs no example.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 103
TO DIRECT THE ASCENDANT IN MUNDO.
To find the 6 or the 8 of any Star with the
Ascendant.
Rule.—If the planet be between the 4th house and
the ascendant, the difference between its semi-arc
and meridian distance is the arc to the <5 . If it be
between the 10th house and 7th house, the difference
between its semi- arc and meridian distance is the
arc to the 8 •
Example. —Mars is between the 4th and 0 ,
ascendant, its semi-arc is 79 19
The meridian distance of $ 74 37
The difference is the arc of direction
of the ascendant <$ $ ......... . 4 42
To find the * or a of any Planet to the
Ascendant.
Rule. —If above theJSarth, take \ of its semi-arc
from its meridian distance. If below the Earth, and
east of the 4th, tske its meridian distance from ^ of
its semi-arc ;
but if west of the 4th, add its meridian
distance to ^ of its semi-arc, for the .
If above the Earth, and east of the 10th, add its
meridian distance to ^ of its semi arc ;
but if west
of the 10th, take its meridian distance from J of its
104 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
semi-arc. If under the Earth, take 1 of its semi -are
from the meridian distance for the A
.
The quintile to the ascendant is of the planet’s
semi-arc from the meridian, either above or below
the Earth.
The sesquiquadrate is the semi-quartile from the
M. C. if it fall in the 8th house ;
if it fall in the 5th,
it is the sesquiquadrate from the M. C. or semi-quar-
tile from the 4th house.
The semi-quartile is the semi-quartile from the
M. C. if it fall in the lltli ;
if it fall in the 2d, it is
the sesquiquadrate from the M. C.
The biquintile is of the planet’s semi-arc beyond
the middle of the 8th or semi-quartile from the M. C.
If it fall in the 5th, it is of the planet’s semi-arc
to be taken from the arc to the sesquiquadrate of the
M. C.
N.B. The shortest way is to find one direction to
the ascendant or M. C., and then add or subtract the
portion of the planet’s semi-arc to find the others.
Example.
—O’s semi-arc to a of ascendant is
2° 34*; add J of the semi-arc of O 19° 18', and it
gives 21° 52% for M. C. * 0, which is O’s distance
from the 8th ;
add J again, and it gives 41° IF, the
arc for M. C. 0 or ascendant § 0. Take from
41° 11' the £ of O’s semi-arc, it gives 29° 36' M. C.
quintile 0. Take \ O’s semi-arc from 41° IT, and
it gives 12° 14', the M. C. semi-quartile 0, which is,
of course, ascendant sesquiquadrate 0.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 105
CHAP. IX.
TO DIRECT O OR D TO ANY ASPECT IN THE
WORLD (EXCEPT PARALLELS) BY CONVERSE
MOTION.
When O or ]) above tbe Earth are moved onwards
to form the aspect, from the east towards the west, or
below the Earth from the west towards the east, it is
termed a converse direction.
Rule I. —As the semi-arc of the planet to whose
aspect O or D is directed is to that planet’s distance
within or without a certain house, so is the semi-arc
of O or D to the second distance from the house
which forms the required aspect with that from which
the planet’s distance is taken.
Rule 2.—Find the apparent or primary distance
from the said house, and take the sum or difference
of the two distances according as the O or D falls
short of or passes the cusp of the house, for the arc
of direction. If the aspect is formed before the
© or D passes the house, the difference, but if they
pass the house to form the aspect, the sum must be
taken.
Example 1.—Required the arc of © I? con-
verse?
106 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
As the semi-arc of T? 64° 24\ propor-
tional logarithm (arith. comp.) 9.5536
Is to T? ’s distance from the 12th (outside)
4° 58' proportional logarithm 1.5592
So is the semi-arc of O 57° 55' prop. log. 4925
To the O’s second distance from
the 9th outside 4° 28' 1.6053
As the O has to pass the 9th to
form the , add the distance of
the O from the 9th, which is
the arc of ascendant A O . . .
.
2 34
The sum is O T? converse .... 7 2
To those who have not tables of proportional loga-
rithms,, it will be useful if we work this example by
the Rule of Three.
As 64° 24' is to 4° 58', so is 57° 55' to the Ans. 4° 28
/
.
60 60 60
3864 ”298 3475
298
27800
31275
6950
3864)1035550(268
7728 60, gives 40.28/,
ttr
'
Mr
the same as b>
r
the
262/5 logarithms.
23184
30910
30712
198
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 107
Example 2.—Required the arc of direction of D
to the of O by converse motion ?
As the semi-arc of O 57° 55' proportional
logarithm (arith. comp.) 9.5075
To Q’s distance inside the 9th = 2° 34',
proportional logarithm 1.8459
So is the semi-arc of the D (diurnal) 86° 51',
proportional logarithm 3165
To the second distance of ]) inside the I2tlr,
3° 51' 1.6699
To find the j)’s primary or actual distance
from the 12th, add b her semi-arc diurnal
to her distance from the 1st house 7 5
180° less ]>
semi-arc nocturnal 93° 9' zz
86° 51', of which i.. — 28 57
Moon’s primary distance from the 12th zz 36 2
Take away her second dist. to the 12th zz 3 51
Leaves the arc of 1) O converse 32 11
N.B. That semi-arc, whether diurnal or nocturnal,
must be taken where the planet is when the aspect is
completed. The D at Ada’s birth was under the
Earth, but when she formed the with the place
of © at birth, she was near the 12th house ;
of course
her diurnal semi-arc must be taken.
1
108 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
To work the proportional logarithm s, the rule is
to add the logarithms of the 2d and 3d numbers toge-
ther, and take from their sum the logarithm of the
1st number, which will leave the logarithm of the 4th
number. But a shorter method is to take the arith-
metical complement of the logarithm of the first num-
ber, instead of the logarithm itself ;
and then add all
three logarithms together, and the result will be the
same. The arithmetical complement of a logarithm
is what it wants of 10.0000. The common way to
find it is to take each figure from 9, beginning at the
left hand, except the right hand figure, which must
be taken from 10.
Example.—What is the arithmetical complement
of the proportional logarithm of J? ’s semi-arc 64°
24' ?
Its proportional logarithm is 4464. As there is
no index, the arithmetical complement will have 9. in
the index ;
then 4 from 9 are 5 ;
and 4 from 9 are 5 ;
and 6 from 9 are 3 ;
and 4 from 10 are 6 ;
which
will stand thus, 9.5536. If the index amounts to 10
or more, reject 1 0 in the index ;
for instance, in the
second example of D O converse, the logarithm of
the D’s distance inside the 12th is 11.6699, which
we call 1.6699, by rejecting 10 in the index.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 109
CHAP. X.
TO DIRECT THE SUN OR MOON TO ANY ASPECT
IN MUNDO (EXCEPT THE PARALLELS) BY
DIRECT MOTION.
When the O or D are supposed to remain fixed in
the place they were at birth,, and the planets I?,
, $ , ? , or , are moved on to form the aspect,
according to the regular motion of the heavens, the
direction is called Direct Direction.
Rule 1.— As the semi-arc of the O or D is to its
distance from a certain house, so is the semi-arc of the
planet directed to the second distance of that planet.
Ride 2.—Add or subtract it from the planet’s ap-
parent (or primary) distance, according as it passes
or falls short of the cusp ;
the result is the arc of
DIRECTION.
Example 1.—Direct the O to 6 T? by direct
direction.
As the Q’s semi-arc 57° 55', proportional
logarithm 4925 (arith. comp.) 9.5075
Is to the 0’s meridian distance 16° 44',
proportional logarithm 1.0317
So is the semi-arc of T? 64° 24' prop. log. .4464
To the second distance of I? ,
past the
M. C.. 18° 36' ~ .9856
As T? passes the cusp of the 10th,
add his apparent distance,
which is his meridian distance 37 58
The sum is the arc of O 6 h D.D. 56 34
110 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
N.B. Having worked one direction, others may
generally be had from it by the proportional part of
the semi-arc of the planet directed :
— 0 ,
Thus, from the arc of the O 6 T? D. D. . . . 56 34
Take of T? ’s semi-arc (64° 24') ...... 32 12
It leaves the arc of © semiquartile of 7? D.D. 24 22
From this semiquartile take l of T? ’s
semi-arc 10 44
It leaves the arc of 0 * 7? D. D 13 38
Example 2. —Find the arc of i> ]? D.D.
1. As the semi-arc of p, 93° 9' propor-
tional logarithm (arith. comp.) .... 9.7139
To dist. of D from the 1st house, 7° 5' 1.4050
So is the semi-arc of 7? ,
64° 24' ,4464
To the second distance of 7? to the 10th,
4° 54' 1.5653
2. The apparent distance of 7? is his me- 0 ;
ridian distance 37 58
From which take his second distance . . 4 54
Leaves the arc of ]) b D. D 33 4
Taking l of J? *s arc from this 21 28
Leaves the arc of D * 7? D. D 11 36
Taking ^ of 7? ’s arc from this. . . . , . . «, 10 44
It leaves the arc of D semiq. 7? , D. D. 0 52
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. Ill
N.B. As this latter arc is within one degree, it
came into operation in the first year of life ;
and will
act all through life to the injury of the native, it be-
ing a radical position, by which T? vitiates the D
Its effects are mitigated by the * of T? to D in
zodiac.
CHAP. XL
TO DIRECT THE SUN OR MOON TO MUNDANE
PARALLELS CONVERSE.
These have been already described in Chap. XIII,
Book l (which see).
Rule 1.—As the semi-arc of the planet to whose
parallel q or D is directed is to its meridian dis-
tance, so is O or D ’s semi-arc to the second distance
of 0 or D from the meridian.
Rule 2. —The difference between 0 or D’s meri-
dian distance and second distance is the arc of
direction ;
or if it pass the meridian to form the
parallel, the sum must be taken.
Example 1.—Required the arc of 0 to parallel J?
converse.
112 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
As the semi-arc of J? 64° 24 proportional
logarithm (arithmetical complement) . . 9.5536
To the meridian distance of T? 37° 58'. ... 6759
So is the semi-arc of O 57° 55' 4925
To the second distance of 0. . .
.
34° 9' .7220
The O’s meridian distance. ... 16 44
Leaves the arc of O par. T? conv. 17 25
Example 2. —Required the arc of D parallel $
converse.
As the semi-arc of $ 79° 19', proportional
logarithm (arith. comp.) , 9.6441
To the meridian distance of $ 74° 37' 3824
So is the semi-arc (diurnal) of j) ,
86° 51' 3165
To the second distance of 81° 43' 3430
As the aspect falls above the Earth, the D ’s diur-
nal meridian distance (found by taking her meridian
distance from 180°) must be taken.
0 /
The D’s diurnal meridian distance is ... , 93 56
From which take her second distance, ... 81 43
It gives the arc of D parallel $ converse 12 1
3
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. lie
CHAP. XII.
TO DIRECT THE SUN OR MOON TO MUNDANE
PARALLELS DIRECT.
This is merely reversing the operation of the con-
verse parallels.
Rule I.—As the semi-arc of © or D is to its me-
ridian distance, so is the planet’s semi-arc to its
second distance.
Rule 2. —The difference between the planet’s me-
ridian distance and second distance, or, if it pass
the meridian to form the parallel, their sum, will be
the ARC OF DIRECTION.
Example. —Find the arc of © parallel 1? D. D.
As the semi-arc of ©, 57° 55' propor-
tional logarithm (arith. comp.) 9.5075
To ©’s meridian distance, 16° 44' «... 1.0317
So is the semi-arc of J? 64° 24' 4464
To the second distance of ]?, 18° 36' . . .9856
° /
From the meridian distance of J? ..... 37 58
Take the second distance of 18 36
It gives the arc of Q parallel h D. D. =19 22
i
114 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
CHAP. XIII.
TO DIRECT THE SUN OR MOON TO PARALLELS
IN MUND.O
;
That is ,
to Parallel Distances from the Meridian by Rapt
Motion, called rapt parallels.
This name of rapt is an old term, meaning carried
away ; and it signifies those parallels which are
formed by both the significator (as q or j are
termed) and the promittor (as the planets
$ , ? , and $ , are termed) being carried away by the
motion of the Earth on its axis from the places they
were in at birth, till they come to equal or parallel
distances from the meridian.
Rule 1.—Add together the semi-arc of the © or
D and that of the planet, and take half their sum.
Rale 2.—Find the difference between the A. R. of
the G or and that of the planet, and take half
that difference.
Rule 3.-—Note the semi-arc of the body which
will be applying towards or approaching the meri-
dian when the parallel is formed, and take half of it.
Rule 4.—Then say. As half of the sum of the
semi-arcs is to half the semi-arc of the body applying
to the meridian, so is half the difference of A, R. to
JPI X
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 115
half the second distance of the body applying to the
meridian, which must be doubled.
In other words, add to the arithmetical complement
of the proportional logarithm of half the semi-arcs
the proportional logarithm of half the semi-arc of the
body which applies to the meridian, and the propor-
tional iogarithm of half the difference of A. R.; the
sum will be the proportional logarithm of half the
second distance of the body applying to the meri-
dian.
Lastly. —Take the second distance from the ap-
parent distance of the body from the meridian, and
the remainder will be the arc of direction.
Example 1.—Bring the O to the rapt parallel of
T? in Ada’s nativity.
To semi-arc of Jp 64 24, £ of it is 32 12 A.R.of Jp 311 17
Add semi-arc of © 57 55 A.R. of © 256 35
2) 122 19 2) 54 42
Half 61 9 p.iog. (A.C.) 9.5311 Half 27 21
| of Tp ’s semi-arc 32 12 prop. log. . . . 7474
% of the diff. A. R. 27 21 prop. log. . . . 8183
P. log. of ^ the second dist. of Ip 14° 24/
rzl.0968
X 2
~—
Second distance of Jp 28 48
116 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
Lastly, From the apparent or meridian Q f
distance of T? 37 58
Take the second distance of T? from the
meridian 28 48
It leaves the arc of direction of 0 rapt
parallel T? . . . . 9 10
N.B. These rapt parallels are most powerful di-
rections, and never fail to produce important effects.
This direction it was which caused the death of the
native’s noble and talented father, as it will be seen
by the rules for turning arcs of direction into time,
that it came up exactly at the period of Lord Byron’s
death. All parallels act like conjunctions ;
good
with good planets, and evil with evil planets.
Example 2. —-Required the arc for the rapt paral-
lel of D to # . The body of $ is nearer the ascend-
ant than that of D ;
and he therefore rises first, and
will form a parallel distance to the M. C. according
to his semi-arc (diurnal, as he will be above the
Earth), with that formed by ])
to the meridian under
the Earth, according to her semi- arc. But as the
opposition of D will be at an equal distance from
the I Oth or diurnal meridian, as her body is from the
4th or nocturnal meridian ;
and as the rule requires
the arcs used to be both diurnal or both nocturnal,
we take the § of D instead of the ]) herself to work
with.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 117
Then to the semi-arc(diurnal) 0 f
of $ 100 41
Add the semi-arc (diurnal)
of the § of ]) ,
which is her
own semi-arc, nocturnal. . 93 9
A. R. $ 18 42
Add.... 360 0
378 42
A.R.of D’sg 187 15
2)193 50 2)191 27
Half.. 95 43
Half 96°55'—P. log. (A.C.) 9.7311
Half semi-arc $ .... 50 20 5534
Half A. R 95 43 2743
Half the second distance 49° 43' .... 5588
x 2 —
The second dist. to meridian 99 26
A. R. of $ (with the circle) 378 42
A. R. of the meridian (diurnal) 273 19
Apparent or primary distance of to
meridian * 105 23
Take away $ second distance 99 20
Leaves the arc of D rapt parallel $ . . 5 57
Example 3. —Find the rapt parallel of 0 to 1L
When % sets* he will apply to the nocturnal meri-
dian, and soon form a parallel distance with the O to
the diurnal meridian. The opposite place of O must
be worked with as if he were in the 3d house, as the
nocturnal arcs are used.
118 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
To semi-arc of If. (nocturnal) 104 26 A. R. of If. 210 27
Add the semi-arc of 0 g . . 57 55 A. R. of § O 76 35
2)162 21 2)133 52
Half.... 8110 Half.... 66 56
To half the sum of the semi-arcs 81° 10'*
proportional logarithm (arith. comp.) . . 9.6541
Add half the semi-arc (nocturnal) of Tf. as
he approaches the meridian when the
aspect is formed* 52° 13' 5375
And the half difference of the A. R. 66° 56' 4296
The sum is the proportional logarithm of
half the second distance* 43° 3J' 6212
If. ’s second distance 86 7
The A. R. of If. is 210 27
A. R. of nocturnal meridian 93 19
If.
9
s apparent meridian distance. 117 8
Take away his second distance 86 7
Arc of 0’s rapt parallel If. 31 1
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 119
CHAP. XIV.
OF DIRECTIONS TO THE PART OF FORTUNE.
The 0 is a fixed spot in the heavens, and, like
the M. C., it has no motion of itself. Bodies of pla-
nets may be carried to it, or form aspects with it
;
but it cannot itself move onwards, either in the zo-
diac or by converse motion in the world. The 0
therefore has nothing to do with the zodiac, and
forms no zodiacal aspects ;
it is capable of direct
direction only. The 0, D, or any planet, may be
brought to its 6 or or any other aspect in the
world, except the rapt parallel. (
See Book II, Chap.
XIV.)
To direct o , > , or any Planet, to an Aspect
of ®.
Rule 1. —As the semi-arc of 0 is to its distance
from any house it may be near, so is semi-arc of the
planet directed to the planet’s second distance to the
house which is in aspect with the house to which 0
is measured from.
Rule 2. —Add or subtract the second distance
from the apparent, according as the planet passes or
falls short of the house ; the sum or difference is the
ARC OF DIRECTION.
Example. —Required the are of 0 to A 0 in
Ada’s nativity.
120 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
As semi-arc 0 93° 9', proportional loga-
rithm (arithmetical complement) 9.7139
Is to distance of 0 from 4th house, 1 1° 25' 1.1977
So is semi-arc of 0 57° 55' . 4925
To 0f
s second distance past the 8th house,
where he will be four houses (a a asp.)
from© 7° 6'= 1.4041
Add to this second the 0’s apparent =
distance to 8th house or # M. C. 21 52
The sum is the arc of 0 A 0 .... 28 58
To direct any Planet to a Parallel of ©.
Rule 1. —As the semi-arc 0 is to its meridian dis-
tance, so is the planet’s semi-arc to its second dis-
tance from the meridian.
Ride 2.—Take from or add this to the planet’s
meridian distance as before for the arc of direction.
Example. —Bring 0 to parallel of T?.
As semi-arc of ©, 93° 9
l
9.7139
To its meridian distance, 11° 25'. . .... LI 977
So T? semi-arc, 64° 24' 4464
Toll’s second meridian distance, 7° 54':izl.3580
0 t
The meridian distance of 1? is 37 58
The second distance of J? to the meridian,
when he forms a parallel to 0 7 54
Arc of 0 parallel to T? 30 4
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 121
CHAP. XV.
OF TURNING THE ARC OF DIRECTION INTO
TIME, TO LEARN AT WHAT AGE ITS EFFECTS
WILL BE FELT.
This is termed equating the arc of direction. It
is a measure of time, and depends on the apparent
motion of O in the zodiac.
Rule. —To the A. R. of O at birth add the arc of
direction, which will be the A. R. of O when the
aspect is complete. Find in how many days and
hours after birth the Sun acquires this A. R., and
allow for each day one year of life, and each two
hours one month. To find this time, look in the
Ephemeris for the longitude answering to this A. R.,
and from the day and hour when 0 reaches this
longitude take the day and hour of birth ;
the differ-
ence is the number of days and hours after birth,
which are to be turned into years and months, to
know the age at which the direction will operate.
Example.—Required the time of life when the
direction of 0 rapt parallel of T? in Ada’s nativity
will be in operation.
The A. R. of 0 at birth 256° 35'
The arc of 0 rapt parallel 1? 9 10
A, R. of 0 when the aspect is complete 265 45
122 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
The longitude answering to A. R. 265° 45' is f
2
6
3
7', and the O arrived at this longitude at about
half past 8 o’clock on the evening of the 18th of
Depember 1815.
Then from Dec. 18 15 . 18 days, 8J hours
Take the day and hour of birth 10 days, 1 hour
There remains 8 days, 7J hours;
which, at the rate of 1 year for 1 day, and 1 month
for 2 hours, is very near the age of 8 years and 4
months, which was the 10th of April, 1824. Now
on the 19th of April 1824, Lord Byron (the native’s
father) died, which shews the time of birth to be
correctly noted ;
as primary directions can rarely be
brought up to nearer than a month of the time of the
event.
CHAP. XVI.
OF SECONDARY DIRECTIONS.
All the directions we have hitherto considered are
termed primary directions ;
and they are found to
operate for several weeks, and sometimes for many
months ;
especially the mutual aspects of O and D ,
which, owing to their apparent magnitude, generally
come into operation, and remain so for 6 or 8 weeks,
at least, before and after the time the direction is
perfect. The directions of T? are generally slow and
tedious, bringing a continuation of sickness or trouble
to the native, according as they may act. Those of
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 123
Mars are generally soon over,, but sharp and sudden
in their effects. Parallels in the zodiac sometimes
continue a great length of time in operation, as, when
they fall near the tropics, the G or D sometimes lie se-
veral days nearly in the same declination ;
and the effect
will be to cause a certain chain of events to befall
the native, at times, for 7 years or more together.
Secondary Directions are merely the aspects
formed by the ]) after birth, and they are far less
powerful than primary directions ;
and if these are
opposed to them in nature at the time, they have little
or no effect. But if the primary and secondary di-
rections agree in nature (for instance, if the Q were
in (5 or parallel, &c. of T? in the primary and the D
in parallel of O’s declination, or in ill aspect to $ or
Ip, &c. in the secondary direction), the event is
generally shewn when the influence is most powerful
;
viz. when the secondary direction is complete, se-
condary directions endure only a week or two.
To calculate Secondary Directions.
Rule. —Observe the day and hour after birth when
D forms any aspect either with the ascendant or
M. C. or her own place at birth, or those of O or any
planet, and take the day and hour of birth from it
;
the difference will be the arc of direction. This arc
is to be turned into time, at the rate of 1 year for 1
day, and 1 month for 2 hours. The Moon also forms
aspects in the heavens after birth, independent of the
places in the figure of birth ;
and these also must be
124 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
noted, and the arc of direction found in the same
manner.
Example. —In Ada’s nativity the ]) comes to the
parallel declination of O at 8h. 33m. p.m. on the
18th of December, 1815. And from her birth that
measures 8 days 7 hours and 33 minutes, equal to 8
years 3 months and 23 days, which is the 2d of April
1824, within a fortnight of the time of the death of
Lord Byron. At 9h. 42m. p.m., which measures to
19th of April, 1824, the day of the father’s death,
she had 23° 17/ declination ;
and on that very day
she had also 23° 17' declination at noon
!
CHAP. XVII.
OF REVOLUTIONS, LUNATIONS, TRANSITS, &c.
The Revolution of the Sun is his return to his
place at birth. This may readily be estimated
to within a trifle, and the figure erected with the
same A. R. of M. C. as at birth, and the places of
the planets marked in ;
and according as the 0, D ,
Ascendant, and M. C., &c. are well aspected by the
planets at the time, will the native be influenced
during the following year. If the revolution accords
with the directions operating, it gives them greater
power, as it is an additional influence ;
if, however,
there be no close aspects at the revolution, it has
little effect either way.
Example.—In Ada’s nativity G returned to the
place he was in at her birth exactly at llh. 30m. a.m.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 125
on the 10th of December, 1823 ;
and here follow the
places of the planets at that revolution.
Planet T? n o ? 5 D
kf 8 25 X n t X
Long.
0 1
10 19
0 /
18 20
o /
8 23
o /
24 4
o /
17 40
0 1
1 14
0 /
16 0
0 /
14 12
Dec.
0 1
23 25
0 1
15 0
o /
23 5
0 /
4 18
o /
22 54
0 l
9 30
o /
23 35
o /
2 15
Observe, that we find % in parallel with O ;
but
his benefic nature is vitiated by being- in g to $ ;
and
both g and y having the declination of © , do much
afflict that luminary, and in a child’s natus tend to
injure the father. The Moon is separating from a A
of It, and applying to a close of © in the radix or
figure of birth ;
she is in also to the place of y at
birth : and having returned to her own declination,
she is rendered more able to do evil ;
as the Moon
upon her own place at any time has more power for
good or evil, as she may be aspected, than in any
other situation. The Q also is in to $ , who is more
evil by being in sesquiquadrate aspect to the radical
place of Saturn: and, lastly, D is farther afflicted by
being in close to $ . All these very evil positions,
and some others which I have omitted to notice, de-
noted much trouble to the native that year; accord-
ingly in four months after she lost her father.
Lunations.
—
The new or full Moon immediately
preceding any important event, will generally shew,
by the positions of the luminaries as regards the
128 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
planet’s places in the radix and at the revolution, the
nature of the events about to follow.
Example.—-The full Moon preceding Lord Byron’s
death was at 3h. 47m. p.m. on the 13th of April, 1824 ;
and we find that © was in 23J0 of the radical
place of $ , the D being, of course, in 23J
0 of =£=, the
8 to 8 at birth ; $ and § had the same declination
3^°, which is close on that of D at birth, and at the last
revolution. D ’s declination was 13° 45', close to that
of T? at the revolution ; © and g 9°, that of $ at birth.
Transits.—These are the passing of any planet
over any important part of the radical figure, or the
revolutional figure, such as the places of the ©,
D , ascendant, M. C. &c. Unless, it be within
two or three weeks of the birthday, transits over the
radical places have little or no effect; but if near the
birthday, they are very important, in subordination
notwithstanding to the directions at work.
Example.— On the day Lord Byron died, D having
just gone over the of the place of $ and sesqui-
quadrate of T? at the revolution, is found at noon of
the fatal day in 10° 4', exactly the place of y at the
revolution ;
and in parallel to g and $ at that time,
and her own dec. in the secondary direction 23° 17'.
N.B. The place 0 has arrived at by directional
motion in the zodiac is also worthy of notice ;
as
transits over and in aspect to it have important
effects. For example, we find that © has arrived at
$ 26° 20' by his motion in the zodiac at the time
this native lost her father ;
as may be seen by bringing
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 127
(D to that point by oblique ascension in his pole, as
directed in Chap. 11, Book II. Now, on the 17th of
April, 1824, D passed that point in the zodiac, being
at the time in to $ ;
and on the day when the
native's father died the evil $ is found to transit the
of that very point, being in 26° 10
7
R. : his
being retrograde added to his evil nature.
Thus by the primary direction of © rapt parallel 1?
,
which measures exactly to the time of the father’s
death ;
by the evil secondary direction of )) parallel
O ;
by an evil revolution, in which O was in to S'
,
and D in to O, $ , and $ , with other ill testi-
monies ;
by a very fatal lunation, the full Moon on
the 13th April, 1824, and by violent transits over
the of O’s place in the zodiac by direction, and
also of D over the body of 1$ at the revolution, her
exact declination in the secondary direction, and y to
that of O at birth, do we find an abundant harvest of
evidence in this nativity of the wonderful harmony
and power of planetary influence. The student may
rely, that when he meets with persons who deny its ex-
istence, they have never given it a fair examination,
and, in all probability, no examination whatever; yet
*-c
none should condemn who do not understand !”
Progresses.—These are the positions the D forms
in her progress, by allowing one synodical lunation for
one year of the native's life ;
but as they are rather
of a complex nature, involving several proportions to
bring them out, and as they are not always im-
portant, I thought it better to omit giving rules for
128 GRAMMAR of astrology.
them in this elementary work. But if I publish a
second edition, I may add these also.
Planets Places when Lord Byron died.
Planet B i? n $ o ? 2 D
Long.
k?
0 1
15 46
8
0 /
23 35
25
o /
5 19
m
0 1
26 10
0 /
29 21 i£°
r>
-4
8
0 /
7 20
kf
0 1
10 4
Dec.
o /
22 55
o /
16 52
o /
23 30
o /
3 40
o /
11 15 o°
o /
14 2b
o /
23 17
CHAP. XVIII.
TO RECTIFY THE ESTIMATED TIME OF BIRTH
TO FIND THE TRUE TIME.
Unless the time of a child’s birth be accurately
noted by an astrologer, or for astrological purposes,
it is very likely to be incorrect ;
and as an error of
half a minute may throw a direction out six weeks,
and an error of two minutes cause the direction to
be wrong by six months, it becomes important to
know how to learn the true time of birth, when we
have only what may be termed the estimate time.
To effect this purpose, erect the figure of the
heavens for the estimate time, and complete the
speculum of the planet’s places for that time; then,
if the birth be that of a person who has lived a few
years, learn some two or three important events
which have happened to the native, and the periods
at which they occurred, and then calculate the solar
arc for each of those periods.
GRAMMAll OF ASTROLOGY. 129
To calculate the Solar Arc.
Rule.
—Turn the age at which any event happened
into days and hours after birth, by allowing a day
for a year, and two hours for a month ;
add this
number of days and hours to the time of birth, and
look in the Ephemeris for the longitude the Sun will
have arrived at at that period; then find the A. R.
corresponding to that longitude, and subtract the 0
A. R. from it : the difference wT
ill be the solar arc
required.
Example. —In the nativity of Ada we have the
estimate time as given by Lord Byron (see Chap.
VIII, Book 1), which is one hour, p.m., 10th of
December, 1815 ;
for which, having erected a figure
of the heavens, and found the planets' places, &c.,
we will proceed to rectify, to find the true moment of
birth.
The death of the native’s father took place on the
19th of April 1824, at which time the native was
8 years 4 months and 9 days old. Call this 8 years
4 months, which will be equal to 8 days 8 hours of
time after birth.
Days Hour
Time of birth December 1815, at 10 1
Add the time of the father’s death 8 8
Time of the accident . . . ...18 9
130 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
The 0’s longitude at 9 hours p.m. on the 18th of
Dec. 1815 was $ 26° 9', the A. R. of
which is 265° 48'
From this take O A. R. at birth 256 35
There remains the solar arc for the time
of her father’s death . 9 13
Having found the solar arc, see if any direction
falls near, the nature of which corresponds with the
nature of the accident, according to the rules “To
judge of the Effects of Directions” (Chap. XI,
Book I) ;
and then, if it be a direction to any of the
angles or a rapt parallel, you have only to find the
difference between the solar arc and the arc of
direction, to know the error of the estimate time of
birth.
Example. —Solar arc for the father’s death 9° 13'
The arc for 0 rapt par. I? . . . . . 9 10
Error in minutes of a degree 0 3
Thus, if we add 3
;
to the arc for the 0 rapt parallel
Tp , which is done by taking 3' off the A. R. of the
M. C., we shall make it correspond exactly to the
solar arc
:
hence it appears that the time of birth is
given too late by 3' of a degree, which, when turned
into time,
are only 12 seconds; so that the true time
of birth of this young lady was Oh. 59m. 48s. p.m.
15th December 1815.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 131
This error, being so trivial, will cause only about
a fortnight error in the predictions made from direc-
tions to the angles ;
and it will have no sensible effect
on the other directions, and none at all on those made
to 0 or 1) in the zodiac.
If, however, you would be correct, add 3' to the
arc of direction for each rapt parallel and for each
aspect to the ascendant or M. C. The directions to
the parallel’s converse and direct should be wT
orked
over again, as they may require a correction ot 5?
each, equal to a month in the native’s life.
Should no direction to an angle or rapt parallel
apply nearly (for it is rare that births, if noted at
all, are not correct within 5 minutes),' you must see
whether any mundane parallel or other aspect applies
to the accident ;
and if you find it does, but that the
error exceeds 10' of a degree (or, if you choose to be
very correct, if there be an error of above 2 or 3
minutes of a degree), apply the following
Rule to find the True Time of Birth .
Rule I.—Reduce the mer. dist. of O or D , which-
ever you bring up the direction to, into minutes, by
multiplying it by 60, and call it the first position
;
then add to or diminish that mer. dist. by 1 degree,
and, after reducing that also to minutes, call it the
second position ;
then opposite the second position
place the error of the arc of direction, multiply them
k 2
132 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
together, and call the amount A. Work the same
direction over again with the altered mer. dist.
(taking care to add to or lessen by 1 degree the mer.
dist. of the planet employed also) ;
find the error of
that arc of direction, and place it opposite the first
position. Multiply these also together, and call the
amount
Rule 2.—If both errors be greater or less than the
solar arc, find the difference between the errors, and
make it a divisor ;
find also the difference between
A and B, and make it a dividend : the quotient will
be the true mer. dist . of 0 or D at the moment of
birth, the difference between which and the amount
of the mer. dist., which was made the 1st position, is
the error of the A. R. of M. C. at the estimate time
of birth.
Ride 3.—But if one error be greater and the other
less than the solar arc, take the sum of the errors
for a divisor, and the sum of A and B for the divi-
dend; and the quotient is the true mer. dist. as
above.
Observe. —When you have gained the true mer.
dist. of © or D by this operation, and found how
much you have to add to or diminish the M. C. to
ascertain the true A. R. of M. 0., turn that correc-
tion into time, and add it to or deduct it from the
estimate time of birth, and you will have the true
time of birth. And observe also, that all the direc-
tions you may have worked to the angles, in-
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY*: 133
eluding rapt parallels, must be corrected by that
amount*.
Example —Suppose the estimate A. R. of M. C.
273° 19', mer. dist. of © 16° 44', mer, dist. of
I? 37° 58', and that I find the arc of © to parallel
1? D. D. to be 19° 22', while the event which
[ believe it produced gives a solar arc of 19° 10', the
1st error is 12' too great.
Add 1° to the 1st position, and the 2d error will
be 1° 55', or 115' too little.
1st Position 16 44 or 1004 X 2d error 115 B = 115460
2d Position 17 44 or 1064 x 1st error 12 A — 12768
127 ) 128228(1009 or
127 nearly 10L0'.
1228
1143
The 1st error is greater than the solar
^
85
arc, and the 2d error less than the f
solar arc
;
hence the sum of the two (.
errors is taken and the sum of A, R. J
The quotient 1010 divided by 60 gives 16° 50' for
the true mer. dist. of © at the time of birth; the
difference between which and 16° 44' is 6 minutes,
to be added to the A, R. of M. C. as estimated; and
by turning this into time, we have 24 seconds, to be
added to the estimated time of birth to find the true
time of birth.
* The other directions must be worked over again, and the
poles of 0 and ]) and the meridian distances corrected.
184 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
Observe. —The best directions to rectify the esti-
mated time of birth by are those of $ , as the effects
do in general answer very closely to the time of the
direction. Whereas in directions to Saturn the event
may come on slowly, and the direction may measure
some minutes more or less than the solar arc. And I
advise to correct by accidents to the person, if they
can be known ;
such as serious falls or hurts, sudden
attacks of disease, &c. The measles, scarlatina, or
small-pox, are generally caused by $ , but sometimes
by ©, especially if he be aspected by $ . It is
generally found, that if © or $ come to semi-quartile
or sesquiquadrate of the ascendant in the early part
of life, such complaints fall out at that time. The
death of the native’s parents, if it have occurred, is
also a safe accident to rectify by, as it generally
happens upon some powerful directions. But l re-
commend to take at least two, and, if you can, three
events, or accidents,” as they are termed by astrolo-
gers, to rectify the given time of the nativity by. And
bear in mind, that if you do not at length get the
true time of birth, to within half a minute, you cannot
possibly be correct in your predictions of the time
at which many events w ill happen to the native in the
course of his existence.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 135
CHAP. XIX.
A JUDGMENT FOR MARRIAGE IN THE NATIVITY
OF LORD BYRON S DAUGHTER.
It may serve as a useful praxis for the young stu-
dent, if we examine the directions in this lady’s nativity
which promise marriage. They are as follow :
—
D par. 14. D D. 20° 39'
D par. % Con. 21 42 ^
M. C. * O ... 21 53 >M. C. * O 2l°53‘
D par. ? D.D.22 28 ) A. R. of © 256 35
D par. ? Con. 23 29
278 28 a. R. of isf
7° 46', at which 0
arrives 19d. 17^h.
after birth,which will
be at the age of 19
yrs. 9 mths.
Remarks. —The above train of directions will be
in operation from the age of 18 and 6 months until
that of about 21 years, during which the native will
be fortunate, and receive offers of marriage; and
the most powerful direction, being M. C. * Q> will
be the means of effecting that circumstance. If
we wish to ascertain the time nearer, we have only
to look what beneficial secondary directions occur at
or near the time. Now, by reference to the Ephe-
meris, I find that the Moon comes to her own square,
which always causes changes, and to * of % at 10
o’clock on the morning of 30th December 1815, and
to 6 O at 2h. 51m. p.m., which will in all probability
point out extremely near the time of the native’s
marriage.
136 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
To enable the learner to work these secondary
directions,, I shall here give a
Rule to calculate the Time d forms the Aspects.
Rule 1 .
—Take the amount of the D
y
s motion in 24
hours, from which subtract the amount of the planet’s
motion (but if the planet be retrograde, add them),
and the difference or sum is the D ’s acceleration.
Rule 2.—'Then find how far the D was from the
aspect at the noon previous to her forming it. And
say, If the ]) ’s acceleration give 24 hours, what will
the D ’s distance from the aspect give? The answer
is the time after the noon previous, when the aspect
will be formed.
Example. —Required the time D forms a sfc with
% on the 29th of December 1815 ?
]) ’s place at noon, 30th Dec 6° 38'* If. . .
5° 35Y
]) ’s place at noon, 29th Dec £ 23 58 . . If. .
.TTf 5 26
]) ’s motion in the 24 hours * .... 12 40 lf.’s motion 9
'If.’s during the same 24 hours 9
As ]) ’s acceleration 12 31 ......
.
.8.8422
Of/s * at noon 29th 5° ...to 24 0 .8751
]) ’s place ditto 23 58 f
]) ’s distance from 'If.’s jfc 11 28 J.... so II 28 .1.1958
D. H. M. .9131
To time of ^ being formed 21 59
Add the day 29 0 0
29 21 59
From this take the time of birth 10 1 7
Remains time after birth of ]) % If. • • • • • 19 20 52
# To make this subtraction, borrow 30°, and then from 36° 38' take
23° 58/
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 137
This, at the rate of a day for a year, is just 19
years 10 months and 13 days, which age the native
attains on the 23d of October, 1835; and as at the
age of 20 years and 26 days, or the 5th of January
1836, the D is in i with O, in the secondary direc-
tion, it is not at all improbable that the former of
these periods may be that of the engagement being
formed, and the latter that of its consummation.
I shall here give a few directions in this fr.ir lady’s
nativity, for the student to practise in ;
and I advise
him to bring each up for his own satisfaction.
DIRECTIONS IN THE NATIVITY OF LORD
BYRON’S DAUGHTER.
0 t
Remarks.
D 6 $ Conv. 1 34 |
These came up in early in-
Asc. ^ O 2 34 > fancy, and would cause several
Asc. S.S.Q.y 2 48 1 slight illnesses.
Asc. (5 £ . 4 42 This measures to 4 years and
3 months ;
and from that age to
4 years and 6 months rendered
the native subject to the mea-
sles, scarlet fever, small-pox,
&c. I think it probable that
the native may have taken
the latter disease.
138 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
0
Asc. S. I? 5
D rapt par. $ 5
Oaf? conv. 7
Asc. 6 D .7
O rapt par. T? 9
O * 11 D. D. 9
G d § conv. 9
Q * ? D.D. 11
)) par. $ zod. 11
i
46 } These measure to the age of
57 5 years, at which time she
may have suffered illness. But
the native’s mother is denoted
by D ,and no doubt she had much
trouble under these aspects;
for, in the nativity of children,
the influence ofdirections,which
do not affect the health, falls on
the parents or guardians, fa-
mily, &c.
2) These came into operation
5) at six years old, when I have
no doubt the native suffered
in her health seriously. The
influence lasted great part of
the 7th year. And the family
(particularly the father, who
is always signified by the Sun)
were afflicted by domestic dis-
putes, &c. &c.
10 This caused the death of the
native’s father, at 8 years and
4 months of her age.
21) 1 judge that these caused the
32) native benefit by her father’s
will being in her favour.
14) These are favourable to the
41) family affairs; but I think the
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 139
Asc.S S.Q.O 12 131
Asc. 8 % 12 42)
Asc. ^zod. 14 3)
D b zocL 14 48)
Asc. § ? 14 41)
Od 5 conv. 14 48)
O * zod. 15 36
Asc. * T? 16 30
latter, in her 11th year, caused
affliction to the mother of the
native.
These, in the 12th year, I
think, caused pecuniary losses
and vexations; not very ma-
terial: the worst at near 12
years old ;
also ill health.
At about 12 years and 9
months appears to have brought
illness, or some blow or bruise;
and also much trouble in the
family, with the death of some
relation, when about 13 years
old, or at 13 and 2 months.
And all the early part of the
14th year the native appears
to have suffered in her health
by the effect of these direc-
tions, which cause weaknesses
incident to young females,
coughs, &c.
But this good direction, at
about 14, did greatly improve
the native’s health and spirits.
And at 15 years of age she be-
came very grave and thought-
ful in her demeanour, and was
140 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
benefited by elderly friends,,
0 f
or received a legacy, &c.
O par. T? con. 17 25 But by this ill aspect, at 15
and 6 months, and for a few
weeks after, especially about
July, 1831, the native appears
to have affliction. I think she
may have lost a relation by
death ;
and her own health was
not by any means good.
Op. bD.D. 19 22) These two very evil direc-
O D zod. 19 22) tions come up about the end of
May, 1833 ;
but they will re-
main in operation for some time
during the spring and summer
of 1833. Indeed, about April
they appear to bring trouble,
as D came to the parallel of h
in the second motion at that
time ;
and I fear that the native
may have considerable illness
and vexation. She will be sub-
ject to some complaint in the
eyes, probably from taking
cold ;
and she may fear much
trouble to a near friend,
pro-
bably the death of such an one.
The train following have been
GUAMMAH OF ASTROLOGY. 141
already spoken of as likely to
bring about the native’s mar-
riage; and therefore I shall
0 t
name no others but the
©rapt.par. ])27 32) which I leave the student to
©rapt.par. $ 27 53) equate. They will have a
powerful effect, and, indeed,
are extremely dangerous.
142 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
A GLOSSARY OF ASTROLOGICAL TERMS,
APPLICABLE TO NATIVITIES.
Affliction.—Any planet being ill aspected by another, or
being in an unfortunate situation, is said to be afflicted.
Airy Signs.
—
n, and
Ambient.—
T
he heavens, when spoken of in a general manner.
Angle.—The 1st, 4th, 7th, and 10th houses. When planets
are therein, they are more powerful than in any other
situation. Their order of strength is 10th, 1st, 7th, 4th,
Application.—To apply. These terms mean the approach
of any planet to the body or aspect of another, or to , the
cusp of any house.
Ascension, Right.—The distance any body or point in the
heavens is from the beginning of the ecliptic, or first point
of Aries. It is measured in degrees and minutes of a
degree. It is thus abbreviated, A. R.
Ascension, Oblique.—If a star be not on the equator, it
will, when it rises, form an angle with that part of the
equator which is rising at the same time, and this is called
its
Ascensional Difference.—This, added to its right ascen-
sion (A. R.) if it have south declination, but subtracted
therefrom if it have north declination, gives its oblique as-
cension.
Ascendant.—-The first house, or that space between the
eastern horizon and one-third of the distance towards the
meridian under the Earth.
Benefics. —The good planets 2f_
and £ .
Cadent.—A planet which has passed any angle, and remains
within one-third of its semi-arc of the cusp of that angle.
The whole space of the 3d, 6th, 9th, and J2th houses.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 143
Circles of Position.—An astronomical term used in cal-
culating the polar elevation of any planet.
Combust.— Being within about 8J degrees of the ©, when the
planet loses part of its pow er (owing to the burning quali-
ties of 0), which is transferred to that luminary. If the
planet have great latitude, the © has not much power on
it beyond the distance of 7 degrees.
Converse Motion is that which is caused by the diurnal ro-
tation of the Earth on its axis, which makes the ©, J),
<&c. appear to rise, approach the meridian, set, &c. It
applies particularly to the © and ]) ,
when they are car-
ried towards the promittors or their aspects.
Cusp.—The beginning of any house. Thus the eastern horizon
is the cusp of the 1st house; and the meridian, where the
© is at noon, is the beginning, or cusp of the 10th house.
Declination.—The distance any body is north or south of
the equator. The © never has more than 23° 28 of de-
clination, which is when he is in one of the tropics, antf
is caused by the pole of the Earth being inclined from the
plane of the Earth’s orbit.
Descension.—The going down of any body from the meri-
dian above to that below the Earth ;
for though the © is
lost sight of at sunset, he still descends till he reaches the
meridian at midnight.
Descension, Oblique.—The reverse of Oblique Ascension
(which see).
Descendant.—The 7th house, or that space from the western
horizon to one-third of the distance towards the meridian
above the Earth.
Direction.—The measuring the space between the bodies or
aspects of any two planets, or that between any two parts
of the heavens, to ascertain at what period of life the
promised effect will appear. This distance is a certain
number of degrees of the A. II. of the©, which, when
144 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
he has passed over, the direction is complete. It is
called the Arc of Direction
.
Direction, Secondary.—The aspects formed by the Moon
in the days immediately succeeding the birth. Each day
between the birth and the time the aspect is formed is
equal to one exact year of life ;
thus, if the ]) form a
good aspect with If., exactly 21 days after birth, the na-
tive will feel its effects just about his 21st birthday.
Direct Motion.—This is in reality converse motion, but is
so called to distinguish the case of the promittors being
carried towards the bodies or aspects of the 0 or ]),
which directions are considered somewhat less powerful
than those by converse motion.
Diurnal Arc.—Is the length of time that part of the heavens
in which any planet is at birth is above the Earth ;
and it
is usually measured in degrees.
Earthy Signs.— y ,
tip, and J^f.
Equation of Time. — Owing to the irregular motion of the
Earth round the Sun, this latter body does not always
come to the meridian exactly 24 hours after its last pas-
sage over that point ;
but as all calculations in the Ephe-
meris of the places of the planets are made for the time
the 0 is on the meridian (or at apparent noon), the watch
will sometimes be several minutes before or after noon at
that moment. This difference between the apparent
noon, or that shewn by the 0, being on the meridian, and
the mean noon, or that shewn by a correct watch, is the
Equation of Time. The amount to be added to, or
taken from, the time shewn by the watch is given for every
day in the Ephemeris. If the Ephemeris says, “ clock
before 0,” then take the time mentioned from the time of
birth; but if it say, “clock after 0,” then add the time
mentioned (which is the equation of time) to the time of
birth, as shewn by fhe watch.'
—
Example. The Ephemeris
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 145
gives the equation of time for November 2, 1833, “ clock
after © 16m. 16s.” : hence, if the time of birth by a watch
were the 2d of November, 1833, at 6 o’clock p.m., the
apparent time of birth would be 6h. 16m. 16s. p.m., to
which time all the planets’ places, &c., and the figure of
the heavens, must be calculated.
Fiery Signs.— <y, £1, aad
Figure of the Heavens.—A map or picture of the hea-
vens as they exist at the moment any one is born ;
shewing
the points of the zodiac rising, setting, and on the meri-
dian ;
also those on the cusp of each house, and the situa-
tions of the planets.
Houses. —The divisions of the heavens which form ( , or
A ) aspects with the meridian or ascendant; or, in other
words, those spaces which shew the one-third part of any
planet’s semi-arc, either above or below the horizon.
They are also portions of oblique ascension, consisting of
30 degrees each, or one-twelfth part of the whole circle
of 360 degrees ;
being thus each equal to one sign of the
zodiac; and, like them, they are twelve in number; and
are reckoned from the eastern horizon towards the left
hand, in the order of the signs, the ascendant being the
1st house. (See figure 2.)
Hy leg.—That body or point which is the giver of life.
H ylegiacal Places.—The 1st house, from 5° above to 25°
below its cusp ;
the 7th house, from 5° below to 25° above
its cusp; the 9th house, from 5° outside its cusp to half
way between the mid-heaven and the ascendant.
Latitude, on the earth,
is the distance of any place north
or south of the equatorial line ;
in the heavens,
it is the
distance of any body north or south of the ecliptical line.
Longitude, on the earth is the distance of any place east or
west of Greenwich ;
in the heavens,
is the distance of any
body from the first point of the zodiac cy% 6° O'.
Lights or Luminaries.—The ©or]).
L
14(> GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
Lunation.—-The £, ,
or g of © and ]) ;
also the length of
time J) is going round the ©, or round the zodiac.
Malefics.— y, T?, and
M. C. or Medium Cieli, or Mid-heaven.—
T
he meridian
above the earth.
Meridian.—That point which is always south (where Q is at
noon) is the meridian above the earth ;
and that point which
is always north (where Q is at midnight) is the meridian
below the Earth.
Meridian Distance.— The distance any body is by A. R.
from the meridian.
Moderator.—The 0, ]) ,
Asc., M. C. or 0, because each
acts in a mode peculiar to itself.
Nocturnal Arc.—The length of time any point in the
Heavens is below the Earth, from its setting till it rises
again, ft is usually turned into degrees.
Node.
—
That part of the ecliptic where a planet passes out of
north into south latitude is its south node ; that where it
goes into north latitude is its north node.
Occidental, Oriental.—From the 4th house eastward to
the 10th is oriental; and from the 10th westward to the
4th is occidental. But © or ]) are oriental between the
1st and 10th, and its opposite quarter, and are occidental
between the 10th and 7th and its opposite quarter.
Parallels, in the zodiac,
are equal distances from the
equator, or having the same declination, whether of the
same name or the opposite. In the world,
they are equal
distances from the meridian, in proportion to the semi-
arcs of the planets which form them.
Polar Elevation or Pole. —The pole of a country is its
latitude ;
that of a body in the heavens is a certain ele-
vation from the meridian towards the horizon.
Promittor.—The planets y, Tp, If., $ , 5 ,
and g. If 0
or J) are directed to each other, the one directed to may
be termed a promittor ;
so if 0, Asc., or M. C., be
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 147
directed to 0 or ]), these become promittors; because
they promise the event.
Radical; Radix.—The figure at birth is the radix or root
from which every thing is judged ;
and the term radical
refers to it.
Rapt Parallel.—Parallels formed by the motion of the
earth on its axis, where both bodies are rapt or carried
away by the same until they come to equal distances from
the meridian.
Rectification.—The correcting the supposed time of birth,
to find the true time.
Retrograde.—The backward motion which the planets appear
to have sometimes, in consequence of the position and
motion of the Earth.
Revolution.—The turning round the 0 by the Earth, which
makes the 0 appear to revolve and return to his place at
birth once a year ;
very near the time of birth.
Semi-arc.—The half the arc a planet would form above the
Earth if it remained fixed in the zodiac from the time of
its rising until that of its setting, is called its semi-arc
diurnal. The half of the arc it would, in like circum-
stances, forip under the Earth from its setting until its
rising, is called its semi-arc nocturnal. If a planet were
to be on the mid-heaven, and not to move out of its place
in the zodiac, it would set, and then descend to the north
meridian in exactly 12 hours, because the Earth is 12
hours in turning half round ; consequently whatever time
the planet took in going from the mid-heaven to the horizon,
if that time be taken from 12 hours, it would shew the
time it takes to go from the horizon to the meridian below
the Earth. Hence, if we know the length of a semi-arc,
by deducting it from 180° (which are half the circle), we
have the other semi-arc of that part of the heavens.—
N.B. The spot a planet was in at birth is to be considered
l 2
148 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY,
as the planet itself, because its influence is fixed in that
spot during the life of the native, however the planet
itself may move on in the zodiac, &c.
Separation.—When an aspect is past, the planets, &c. are
said to be separating from that aspect ;
and observe, that
in a nativity the influence of any aspect to the moderators
is more powerful if it be a few (8 or 10) degrees past,
than if it be not yet formed.
Significator.—This is that body or point to which a direc-
tion is made, as it signifies the nature of the direction’s
influence. This is a term that has been grossly abused
in the science ;
and might, perhaps, be dispensed with.
Succeedent.—Those houses which lie between the angular
and cadent houses, viz. 2d, 5th, 8th, and 11th, and planets
in them.
Superiors and Inferiors.
—
y, If., and $ are called
the former, being beyond the Earth ; and § , g ,
and ])
are called the latter, being between the Earth and the 0,
The former are far more powerful and durable, in general,
in their effects.
Transits.—These are the passing over the place of any mo-
derator or planet, or their aspects, either in the radix
or revolution, &c. by any other body.
Watery Signs.—gs, Itf, and X*
A Description of the Twelve Houses.
1st.—-This influences the person, health, and character of the
native. Good planets shew a good constitution and bene-
volent disposition; evil planets the reverse.
2d. —Influences in some degree the property of the native. If
good planets be there, they assist to give wealth, according
to their nature ;
evil planets the reverse.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 149
3d.—This influences the native’s journies, and his brethren or
near relations.
4th.—This influences the native’s father, and his property in
land or houses, his inheritance, &c.
5th. —This affects his children, and the good or evil he may
receive thereby.
6th. —This will shew something of the nature of the diseases
he may be subject to.
7th.—This has some influence on the native’s fate in marriage.
8th.—This points out, in part, the quality of his death.
9th.—This has something to do with his distant voyages, and
his pursuits in science, law, &c.
10th. —This has much influence on his honor or credit, and on
his trade, profession, or employment.
1 1 th. —This house will shew the character of his friends, whether
true or false.
12th. —This is the house of private enemies, and according to
the quality of planets therein will the native meet with
persons to do him secret mischief.
Observation. —The student must be cautious not to rely too
much on the effects of the houses, asThat has been one of
the great follies of the Arabian and old English writers
on the science. When a direction is complete, the house in
which the body directed falls will help to point out the
character of the circumstances it will produce ;
thus, if
0 or J)
come to an ill aspect with § in the 9th, or with
^ (he being in evil aspect to g at birth), it may very
probably produce a law-suit. If evil directions fall in
the ascendant, they generally affect health.
Sunrise.
150 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
Fig. 1.
Noon.
S
N.B. The Q, D , and planets rise at E, are on the
meridian at S, set at W, and are again on the me-
ridian (under the Earth) at N. This appearance is
produced by the Earth in the centre turning round on
its axis once in every 24 hours.
Sunset.
East,
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY 151
Fig. 2.
South.
West,
152 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
A. R.
Fig. 3. 273° 19'
/o
93° 19'
A. R/ of N. Merit!
.
N.R. I am not certain whether this birth took place
in London or not; but if it were atNewstead Abbey,
the figure of the heavens would be very nearly the
same, and the time of directions very little different.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY L53
A TABLE TO TURN TIME INTO DEGREES AND
MINUTES, OR TO TURN DEGREES AND
MINUTES INTO TIME.
Deg. H.M. Deg. H.M. ^eg. H.M. peg. H.M. Deg. H.M Deg. H. M.
Min. M.S. Min. M. S. Min. M.S. Min. M.S. Min. M.S. Min. M. S.
1 0. 4 31 2. 4 61 4. 4 91 6. 4 121 8. 4 151 10. 4
2 0. 8 32 2. 8 62 4. 8 92 6. 8 122 8. 8 152 10. 8
3 0.12 33 2.12 63 4.12 93 6.12 123 8.12 153 10.12
4 0.16 34 2.16 64 4.16 94 6.16 124 8.16 154 10.16
5 0.20 35 2.20 65 4.20 95 6.20 125 8.20 155 10.20
6 0.24 36 2.24 66 4,24 96 6.24 126 8.24 156 10.24
7 0.28 37 2.28 67 4.28 97 6.28 127 8.28 157 10.28
8 0.32 38 2.32 68 4.32 98 6.32 128 8.32 158 10.32
9 0.36 39 2.36 69 4.36 99 6.36 129 8.36 159 10.36
10 0.40 40 2.40 70 4.40 100 6.40 130 8.40 160 10.40
11 0.44 41 2.44 71 4.44 101 6.44 131 8.44 161 10.44
12 0.48 42 2.48 72 4.48 102 6.48 132 8.48 162 10.48
13 0 52 43 2.52 73 4.52 103 6.52 133 8.52 163 10.52
14 0.56 44 2.56 74 4.56 104 6.56 134 8.56 164 10.56
15 1.0 45 3. 0 75 5. 0 105 7. 0 135 9. 0 165 11. 0
16 1. 4 46 3. 4 76 5. 4 106 7. 4 136 9. 4 166 11. 4
17 1. 8| 47 3 .8 77 5. 8 107 7. 8 137 9. 8 167 11. 8
18 1 12 48 3.12 78 5.12 108 7.12 138 9.12 168 11.12
19 1.16 49 3.16 79 5.16 109 7.16 139 9.16 169 11.16
20 1.20 50 3.20 80 5.20 110 7.20 140 9.20 170 11.20
21 1.24 51 3.24 81 5.24 111 7.24 141 9.24 171 11.24
22 1.28 52 3.28 82 5.28 112 7.28 142 9.28 172 11.28
23 1.32 53 3.32 83 5.32 113 7.32 143 9.32 173 11.32
24 1.36 54 3.36 84 5.36 114 7.36 144 9.36 174 11.36
25 1.40 55 3.40 85 5.40 115 7.40 145 9.40 175 11.40
26 1.44 56 3.44 86 5.44 116 7.44 146 9.44 176 11.44
27 1.48 57 3.48 87 5.48 117 7.48 147 9.48 177 11.48
28 1.52 58 3.52 88 5.52 118 7.52 148 9.52 178 11.52
29 1.56 59 3.56 89 5.56! 119 7.56 149 9.56 179 11.56
30 2. 0 60 4. 0 90 6. 0 120 8, 0 150 10.0 180 12. 0
154 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
Explanation of the Table to turn Degrees and
Minutes into Time, or the reverse.
Rule to turn Degrees into Time.—"Look in the
column marked deg. min. for the number of degrees
required, and opposite to them, in the next column to
the right hand, will be the hours and minutes
.
Rule to turn Minutes of a Degree into Time.—
Look in the column marked deg. min. for the num-
ber of minutes required, and opposite to them, in the
next column to the right hand, will be the minutes
and seconds cf time.—N.B. If the degrees are above
180, take that number from them, and find the time
for the remainder ;
then to that time add 12 hours.
Example. —What is the time answering to 49
degrees and 27 minutes? The number opposite 49
degrees is . . . 3h
16m 0s
The number opposite 27 min. is 1 48
Answer . 3 17 48
Rule to turn Time into Degrees, dfc.—Look op-
posite the required hours and minutes for the degrees
in the column before it ;
and if the time be minutes
and seconds, that column will shew minutes of a de-
gree.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 155
A TABLE OP THE POLES OF THE HOUSES FOR
EVERY HALF DEGREE OF LATITUDE IN
GREAT BRITAIN.
Ascendant, or
7th House.
3d, 5th, 9th, or
11th House.
2d. 6th, Sth, or
12th House.
0 / 0 / 0 /
50 0 22 : 33 39 : 14
50 : 30 22 : 58 39 : 46
51 : 0 23 : 21 40 : 18
*51 : 31 23 : 47 40 : 51
52 : 0 24 : 12 41 : 24
52 :: 30 24 : 44 42 : 4
53 :: 0 25 : 6 42 : 32
53 : 30 25 : 32 43 : 5
54 : 0 26 : 1 43 : 39
54 :: 30 26 : 30 44 : 13
55 :: 0 26 : 59 44 : 48
55 : 30 27 : 29 45 : 24
56 : 0 28 : 1 45 : 59
56 : 30 28 : 33 46 : 36
57 :: 0 29 : 6 47 : 13
57 :: 30 29 : 40 47 : 50
58 : 0 30 : 15 48 : 27
* The Latitude or Pole of London.
156 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY.
Explanation of the Table of the Poles of
Houses.
This table will serve for any place in Great Bri-
tain, for which it may be desired to erect a figure of
the heavens. The 1st column shews the pole of the
1st and 7th houses, which is always the latitude of
the country ;
the 2d column shews the pole of the
3d, 5th, 9th, or 11th houses; and the 3d column the
pole of the 2d, 6th, 8th, or ] 2th houses. If the lati-
tude of the place fall any where between an even de-
gree and half degree, a proportion may be readily
calculated for the difference : thus, if the latitude be
that of Liverpool, 53° 25', and it be required to find
the pole of the 12th house, say. As 30 miles are to
the difference between the poles of the 12th, for 53
degrees and 53° 30', which is 33 minutes, so is the
difference of latitude 25 to the difference of pole 27 J
minutes, to be added to the pole of the 12th for «^3
degrees. Hence the pole of the 12th at Liverpool
is 42° 59J', which is correct with that found by trigo-
nometry to within half a minute, its true pole being
42° 59'. The chief use of this table is, to find the
polar elevation of the © and D ;
but this may be
done more accurately by trigonometry.
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 157
Rules to Calculate the Longitude of the Cusps
of the Houses, for persons not possessing a
Table ofHousesor; if the birth befar distant
in latitude from the place for which the
Table of Houses is calculated.
Rule. 1. —The oblique ascension of the house is
found by adding 30° to the A. R. of the M. C. for
each house distant; thus,, 30° for the 11th, 60° for
the 12th, 90° for the ascendant, 120° for the 2d, and
150° for the 3d.
Rule 2.—Find the distance of the cusp of the house
from T* or ;
the former by taking its oblique
ascension from 360 if above 270°, or the latter by
taking it from 180° if above 90°.
Rule 3. —Add the log. cosine of the oblique ascen-
sion of the cusp of the house (reduced as by Rule
2) to the log. co-tangent of the pole of the house
:
the sum is the log. cotangent of angle A.
Rule 4.—If the oblique ascension be less than 90°
from Aries, add 23° 28' to angle A ;
if it be less than
90° from Libra, take the difference between 23° 28'
and angle A: the result call angle B.
Rule 5.—xAdd together the arithmetical complement
of the log. cosine of B, the log. cosine of A, and the
_
log. tangent of the oblique ascension of the cusp of
the house : the sum will be the log. tangent of its
158 GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY*
longitude from Aries or Libra, according as it was
nearest to either by oblique ascension.
N.B. If angle B exceed 90°, take the log. sine of
the excess above 90° instead of the log. cosine, and
find its arithmetical complement. And in this case
the longitude must be reckoned from the opposite
equinox to that of the oblique ascension ;
if the oblique
ascension was measured from W', reckon it from
and if the oblique ascension was measured from
reckon the longitude from T.
jExample. —If the A. R. of the M. C. at Liverpool
be 273° 19', what degree of the zodiac is ascending ?
A. R. of M. C 273° 19'
Add 90° for 3 houses 90 0
363 19
A. R. ofvOoO' 360 0
Oblique ascension of ascendant 3 19
Log. cosino of 3° 19
/
9.99927
Log. co-tangent ofpole ofLiverpool 53° 25' 9.87053
Log. co-tangent angle A, which is 53° 28'... 9.86980
Angle A 53° 28'
Add (the oblique asc. being nearest °f
i
). . 23 28
GRAMMAR OF ASTROLOGY. 159
Log. cosine angle B (A comp.) 0.64573
Log. cosine angle A 9.77473
Log. tangent oblique asc. from ^=3° 19'.. .8.76306
Log. tangent of longitude fromTzi 8° 4r...9.18352
It will be seen that the longitude of the ascendant
differs only 46' from that of London ;
which makes no
difference, except in bringing the D to the ascendant
by second motion, as it is the A. R. of the M. C., or
oblique ascension of the ascendant, and not the lon-
gitude, which is used in working directions.
FINIS.
160
Just Published., by Sherwood & Co. Price 5s. plain, and
5s. Gd. coloured,
RAPHAEL’S
ROYAL BOOK OF FATE
:
QUEEN ELIZABETHS ORACLE OF FUTURE EVENTS,
A WORK OF THE GREATEST INTEREST,
WITH A LARGE HIEROGLYPHIC PLATE,
Containing Sixty-four Antique, Quaint, and Mystioal Emblems,
relating to Riches, Love, Marriage, Happiness, Dreams Foretold,
and all subjects of Fate, Chance,
and Mortal Destiny ;
with Five
Thousand correct Answers to the most important Questions,
shewing the future fate of Human Life, performed in a Simple
and Pleasing Manner, by the Artof Sortiligy, by Cards, and by
Lots or Points, entirely divested of every thing that can render
the subject abstruse or difficult, being the final part of an ex-
tremely valuable, rare, old, Illuminated Manuscript (formetly
belonging to the celebrated Earl of Essex, who was beheaded
for high treason in the reign of Queen Elizabeth), and which was
known to have been consulted by the “ Virgin Queen,” and her
Courtiers, on every momentous occasion ;
A RARE RELIC OF OLDEN TIMES,
Faithfully Compiled from the Original' (which cost Twenty
Guineas), and
Edited by RAPHAEL, the Astrologer of the 19th Century.
Third edition,
to which is added,
RAPHAEL’S NATIVITY, •
By ZADKIEL THE SEER,
Author of the “Grammar of Astrology.”
Compton & Ritchie, Printers, Middle Street, Cloth Fair, London.
