{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__a_graduate___a_word_decisive.pdf","mytitle":"A Word Decisive","mylang":"de"}
A /
WORD DECISIVE
OI TH!
PRES ENT PRETENSIONS
THE GIFTS
OI
SPEAKING WITH TONGUES
AID
PROPHESYING.
BY A GRADUATE.
v~
OXFORD,
PUBLISHED BY w. BAX'I‘BR:
so“) ALuo av unssns. HATCBARD .um son, LONDON.
1834-.
A
WORD DECISIVE,
Sic.
+
BY the word of God and reason, I purpose
trying these pretensions.
Considered antecedently then, is it a righteous
thing with God, or is it a sign of piety towards
him, to demand miraculous interference? Hap
pily, our Saviour has in the following words an
swered this inquiry; “ an evil and adulterous gene
ration seeketh after a sign ;” and yet again saith
he, in utter disparagement of the efﬁcacy of such
interference, “ if they hear not Moses 'and the
Prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though
one rose from the dead.” It is then a sign not
of holiness, but of a want of faith; not of a trust
ful bride, but of a faithless adulteress, to ask a
sign from heaven.
A miracle can be demanded for only two pur
poses ; either to accredit words, or to satisfy our
physical necessities or wishes. Moreover, those
words must contain direct prophecy, not mere
spiritual doctrine. A spiritual saying requires no
credentials, having its own sufﬁcient witness in
every devout and faithful heart; whereas a direct
A 2
4
prophecy of some event to come requires external
support. Reason will tell us, that to demand a
miracle, is either to evidence a distrust of God,
or to be guilty of the presumption and impiety of
beseeching our heavenly Father, as we are dissa
tisﬁed with what he hath already revealed, to
grant us a new revelation, or to enlarge the for
mer one. Is it not impious, wantonly to ask God
to satisfy our curiosity respecting things future ?
or, if we regard it as a request for further spi
ritual light, are we to understand from it that the
pious applicants have fulﬁlled to their utmost ex
tent all the precepts, and that they have mastered
all the spiritual doctrines, of Christ and his Apo
stles; aspiring to greater things than did Paul, or
the rest of the noble army of martyrs ?
To me it appears, that St. John, in the closing
words of Revelation, has uttered his stern denun
ciation against all future attempts, which he even
then foresaw, to add any thing to the then full
and perfected amount and measure of recorded
inspiration. Bishop Jeremy Taylor understood
the prophet to convey this in his last words: “ If
any man shall add unto these things, God shall
add unto him the plagues that are written in this
book.” (Rev. xxii. 18.) As the Apocalypse closes
the canon of Scripture, it might be, perhaps, al
lowable to consider this awful deprecation as ex
5
tending to the whole of Revelation. If it was so
considered, it would only accord with the univer
sal expression of mankind, in calling God’s mul
tifarious revelation of such various matters, and
of such various ages and authors, notwithstanding
this as yet only one book. Moreover, though
the full expression is “the prophecy of this
book,” that by prophecy is denoted in Scripture
all manner of divine instruction, is sufﬁciently
known to every reader of the Bible. The Law
and the Prophets are generally set in-contradis
tinction, yet the lawgiver called himself a pro
phet. “ The Lord thy God will raise up unto
thee a Prophet from the midst of thee, of thy
brethren, like unto me.” (Deut. xviii. 15.)
Again, “ the Law and the Prophets were until
John,” (Luke xvi. 16.) though we know that
a large amount of prophecy was delivered after
wards. Our argument is, however, wholly inde
pendent of this ampliﬁed interpretation. I have
only proposed it as a view that may be enter
tained. In their narrowest meaning, the words
relate to the Apocalypse. If God had designed
any future addition, how could these words have
been written? for in that case a man would have
added thereto, and not have inherited “the
plagues.” Let it be also remembered, that to
“ add,” it is not necessary to utter prophecies
6
relating to a remoter period than that within
which all these predictions shall be terminated.
He also “ adds,” who enlarges upon, or deve
lopes, or explains, or in any way casts light upon,
these oracles, if he pretends that such light has
descended from above. But it is maintained,
that inspiration which may be spoken, may never
theless not be written. The words of the prophet,
however, will not help them to such equivocation.
He speaks of additions; his curse is against ad
ditions, however conveyed. We will cut short
this point.
Do they maintain, that this oral inspiration is
to be “mixed with faith” in them that bear it? Is
not then the Apocalypse added to, in the minds
of those, no matter how few their number may
be? And does not then the pretended prophet
incur the full denunciation? This point then is
sufﬁciently cleared, that it is no mark of piety,
but of the reverse of it, to ask for any addition
to the existing revelation ; and that even were
such a request in its moral nature indifferent, yet
the Spirit of God has laid all such pretensions
under the ban of a very ominous malediction.
Next let me ask, But what is the actual state
of the case ? Has God infact actually encouraged
us to ask for further miracles, or for a fuller in
spiration ? I quote the text on which the oppo
7
site party most conﬁdently rely ; “ go ye into all
the world, and preach the Gospel to every crea
ture. He that believeth and is baptized shall be
saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned.
And these signs shall follow them that believe:
in my name shall they cast out devils; they
shall speak with new tongues; they shall take
up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing,
it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on
the sick, and they shall recover.” (Mark xvi.
17, 18.)
Now this promise is limited to the hearers
of the Apostles, even to those on whom the
Apostles might hereafter choose to confer these
extraordinary powers. Christ commanded them
to preach the Gospel to every creature, and
promised that certain signs should follow those
that believed them, that is to say, the Apostles
themselves ,- not those who should believe future
preachers, but those who should receive gladly
the very men to whom this discourse was ad
dressed. If I promise something to a selected
audience, to induce them to cooperate with me
in some great and perilous enterprise, is not this
promise, by the nature of the case as well as by
the language, restricted to those to whom it is
addressed? Observe the reason which existed
for it. It was a deserved compensation, a well
8
merited preference, a gracious consolation,
granted to those who received the infant Gospel
in the face of power, beset with dangers, and
environed by countless forms of death. Who
does not see, that the language of the text limits
it; that the greater difﬁculty that was to be en
countered by the ﬁrst believers sanctioned the
difference? We retain that which is eternal; the
temporary support is withdrawn, now that that
which hindered has been graciously taken out of
the way.
Mark too the signiﬁcance of our Saviour’s
expression, “ follow.” He does not command
them to ask for miraculous powers, but he
promises that such powers shall follow their
belief. They were to form no subject of their
prayers, but would come “ unasked for, if they
came at all.” Is it ever said that the spiritual
blessings of peace, meekness, purity, love, would
present themselves uncalled for, and without the
aid of prayer? No; the one kind are wholly gifts,
the other kind constitute the very essence of the
religion itself. The former are gifts in no-wise
tending to the believer’s advantage, inasmuch as
it is not of their nature to increase holiness, but
they were designed for the propagation of the
faith; and Christ, the Head of the Church, being
alone able to judge in what measure they were
9
required to that end, promised arbitrarily to
dispense them.
But it is asserted, that the aforesaid mira
culous powers are promised for all times, by the
words, “ and, lo, I am with you always, even
unto the end of the world.” Are ye who thus
think aware that you are profanely confounding
the “ I,” the personal Jesus, the spiritual Agent,
the Word of the Father, with matter and its
inert powers? Have you yet to learn, that Jesus
is a person, not a thing? That it is blasphemy
and profanity thus to confound his essence, which
is spiritual, with material substances or physical
agency ? When Christ says, “ I will be with you
always,” He means Himself, that is to say, his
Spirit, never to be confounded with the command
over lifeless nature.
What is a miracle? Is it not reversing a
material law? Is it any thing more than altering
for a moment the properties of matter? Is it a
tongue that is given for utterance? Is this any
thing more than to have a command of certain
sounds, to effect certain vibrations of the air?
Do ye see God a whit nearer to you in this?
Ye must, or ye would not so covet it. Be con
sistent ; go forth to worship the sun, or kiss your
hands to the moon “ walking in her brightness.”
God is not in the sign, or in the sound, or in the
10
wonder, but He is discernible only by the Spirit.
How durst ye so profane the Idea of Him, whose
name is Jealous, by conceiving, that when He
said, “ I am with you always,” He included
therein extraordinary physical powers, as it seems
to your minds the better half of the donation, the
accompaniment, without which even His presence
would be tedious and unacceptable!
Again, if this promise was designed for all
times, it was equally designed for' all persons;
nay more, the words would imply, that the full
assemblage and congregation of the gifts were
the heritage of every believer; so that every
baptized man and woman is entitled to receive
all these signs, and the Church would be obliged
to consider such as heathen and unbelieving, who
cannot produce these external wonders. Let
St. Paul determine it. “ Are all Apostles ? are
all Prophets ? are all teachers? are all workers
of miracles ? Have all the gifts of healing ? do
all speak with tongues P do all interpret ?” (I Cor.
xii. 29, 30.) Thus this promise was not granted
to all, even in the generation of him who spake
it. That which guided the various distribution
of supernatural aids was the principle of utility.
“ But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to
every man to proﬁt withal.” (1 Cor. xii. 7.) It
is, however, contended, that these signs were
ll
promised to be the heritage of the Church in all
ages for her own advantage, and not for the bene
ﬁt of unbelievers. Whereas again Scripture says,
a few lines after, that “ they conﬁrmed the words
with signs following,” or, in other words, it was
for the sake of authenticating the doctrine.
It only remains to inquire after the fact.
Have all believers received them since these
words were spoken ? It cannot be said that they
failed to receive them for want of faith, otherwise
they would have been no believers at all. Who,
after any consideration, can admit so monstrous
a proposition ?
We will next examine the much-vaunted pas
sage of Joel, as quoted by St. Peter on the day
of Pentecost; “ and it shall come to pass in the
last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit
upon all ﬂesh: and your sons and your daughters
shall prophesy, and your young men shall see
visions, and your old men shall dream dreams;
and on my servants and on my handmaidens I
will pour out in those days of my Spirit; and
they shall prophesy.” (Acts ii. l7, 18.) The
Apostle Peter declared, that what they then
saw and heard was the fulﬁlment of this pro
phecy; and when a prophecy has once been
fulﬁlled, may every idle questionist, in order
that the power of God may supersede his own
12
reluctant efforts, demand to see the same ﬁre
descend from heaven, or to be able ’to summon
“ spirits from the vasty deep” as oft as he will?
But among the words which in their minds
fully secure to them this envied endowment, not
of working righteousness, but signs and portents,
is that which St. Peter says, “ for the promise is
unto you, and to your children, and to all that are
afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall
call.” (Acts ii. 39.) The mere quotation of the
preceding verse will at once clear this matter;
“ then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be bap
tized every one of you in the name of Jesus
Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall
receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.” (Acts ii. 38.)
What is the gift promised? It is the Holy Spirit.
And what is the Holy Spirit? Is it aught mate
rial? a voice—a phenomenon—physical agency?
It is none of all these; but, as our Lord else
where says, “ That which is born of the ﬂesh is
ﬂesh ; and that which is born of the Spiritis spirit.”
(John iii. 6.) And again, “ God is a spirit;
and they that worship him must worship him in
spirit and in trut ;” (John iv. 24.) an admoni
tion, be it observed, by such as seek for signs,
shamefully disobeyed. What they worship is
physical power; but God dwelleth not in the
power, the highest end of which is to win cre
“13
dence to a doctrine, and so to testify “ his hidden
residence.” The Apostle, in the ﬁrst part of
his discourse, establishes the new religion, on
the ground of the promised prodigies; in the
second place, he abridges the history of Christ ;
and in the last, he exhorts them to embrace the
religion itself, with its great and gracious gift of
the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in their hearts ;
and this promise, says he, is designed for you
and your posterity, even to the latest generation.
Unless, then, we confess ourselves unable to dis
tinguish between the Spirit of God and the laws
of matter, there can be no controversy in this
case. Observe, it is not said, the “ gifts,” but
the “ gift” of the Holy Spirit. Even had the
I plural been used, this phrase would not neces
sarily have included any miraculous endowment ;
- for those internal qualities of the soul which are
the fruits of the indwelling Spirit are not one,
but many. If we may use a phrase once applied
to hellish occupants of the breast, they are
“legion,” for they include peace, love, joy,
meekness, purity, and whatever else is of good
report; but the singular noun is used. That
then which constitutes the eternal possession of
the Church, is to have the spirit of her Founder,
who is one, though his operations may be mani
fold. It comes shortly to this, that, the Gospel
14
being given for the renovation of the spirit of
man—that object being the sole end and
purpose of the religion—the promise is of the
gift of that which is able to effect such purpose.
Miraculous power has no such tendency. Spirit
can alone come in contact with spirit. The
devils see greater displays of the divine power,
at least in the region of matter, than ourselves,
and yet still remain unbelievers, not indeed in
the physical power, but in the love and goodness
of their Creator. The signs were only the ac
companying credentials; and, when an ambas
sador is once accredited, is he required to repro
duce his credentials, on the occasion of every
interview that he may hold? Why should it be _
otherwise in spiritual concerns ? If one merchant
pledged himself, at’stated seasons, to remit money
to another merchant, should we conceive the pro
mise violated if the money was not always con
veyed in the same box, or if, instead of gold and
silver, the merchant transmitted a bill of ex
change? In either case the conveyance may be
varied, so long as the substance remains. The
case, however, is even stronger than this; for a
miracle is a credential, and not a conveyance. It
is even so, because matter and spirit are alto
gether heterogeneous. Having scrutinized these
two passages, which are universally admitted to
15
favour most the views we reject, and having
proved that they contain no such doctrine, but a
denial of it, it is needless to examine any more
on that head.
I now advance to the third part of our inquiry.
What is the nature of the alleged manifestations?
Before I proceed to examine this, let me be
seech the inquirer to scrutinize these alleged
gifts, without any reference to his opinion of the
soundness of the former argument. If the scales
seem equally suspended, let us recur to foreign
assistance, but not otherwise. We will conduct
our scrutiny of these gifts by proposing certain
heads of inquiry. What supernatural proof has
been aforded, that the utterances are those of the
Spirit of God? It is alleged by the believers of
them, that unknown tongue is given as a sign
and credential from heaven. Then what tongue is
it? It is a collection of sounds oftentimes inar
ticulate, as the writer himself can testify by his
own hearing, and which are absolutely indisco
verable in any known language of the world.
Any man would here ask, What ground then
have we for believing that these unknown sounds
are any language at all ? There is no ground for
believing it. In many utterances there appears
an intermixture of Spanish and Hebrew words,
that is to say, of utterly diverse sounds and Ian
16
guages ; but in Scripture is any hint afforded of
indiscoverable and unintelligible sounds? No
thing like such an idea appears. It was, indeed,
a great mistake, and an indication of intense ig
norance, to believe, that the phrase of our trans
lation, “ unknown tongues, ever meant unin
telligible sounds, or rather no tongues at all. Y I
say “unknown tongues,” for no such phrase
occurs in the original. The word thus rendered is
77.0mm, a language ; but as these languages were
a gift, it of course means foreign languages. On
the day of Pentecost, every foreigner heard in his
own language “ the wonderful works of God.”
If they admit that such was the nature of the
Pentecostal gifts, yet doubt whether the same
rule obtained in the case of the Corinthian
Church, let the great Apostle decide; “ There
are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the
world, and none of them is without signiﬁcation.
Therefore, if I know not the meaning of the voice,
I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian,
and he that speaketh shall be a barbarian unto
me.” (I Cor. xiv. 10, ll.)
This utterance then is no sign. But what shall
we say of the English utterance? Let us be thank
ful to these new prophets, that they do not al
ways speak in these ﬁne languages, but some
times condescend to use even the tongues of
l7
flesth men. Having in our hands a written
revelation, we are the better able to judge of
what may he thought worthy to come from God.
Open the Bible where you will, and you see a
power of genius and of soul not to be rivaled.
The words of it appear to be thought, and ut
tered by more energetic men than now dwell
upon the earth. In the eloquent language of
Bishop Heber, it is at once perceived “ how
hopeless it is by mortal ﬁres to try to emulate
heaven’s own inimitable lightning.” The phrases
are so memorable, that they at once ﬁx them
selves in our hearts, and defy the power of obli
vion. Its expressions have all passed into house
hold words. Even seen in a translation, they are
more exact and forcible than can be framed in
our own mother tongue. Reason at once teaches
us, that what comes from God must be worthy of
God. And has not Revelation fulﬁlled the pledge?
Under this head, I lament that I cannot refer my
readers to any record of these utterances. All
former revelations have been so given, that their
divine Author has amply provided for their pub
licity and preservation. Whether revelations to
individuals touching their own safety or fortunes,
and which concern no public interest, would ne
cessarily be preserved, does not enter into the
question; but that a revelation which concerns
a
18
all men, and is addressed to the universal Church,
should be preserved for the use of all, as it cer
tainly was the case of all previous inspiration;
so our reason must tell us, that if any future one
were granted, equal means would be afforded,
under some recognized channel, for its conserva
tion and universal accessibility. Great numbers,
however, have heard these utterances, and many
of them have been taken down at the time, and
brought before the public ; and how do they cor
respond to the dignity of a revelation ? They
pretend to original power; but what are they,
the bulk of them, but repetitions of Scripture
sentences? Does not this argue a want of power,
a plentiful lack of ideas, an absence of all ori
ginality, and a weakness of understanding, to be
ever incoherently reciting scraps and shreds of
the sacred writings? Is' the Divine power ex
hausted ? Has the Spirit lost its richness of ut
terance, that it is fain to feed its servants with
the broken bread and remnants of a former ban
quet ? Has not each human genius, with whom
God favours the world, his own peculiar phrase,
distinguishing him from all others? Is it not so
with all the sacred writers? Even if old wine
was served up, would it not have been wise to
put it in new bottles ? But so it is, that term
and idea are alike borrowed. Whatever is not
19
Scripture in the utterances is contemptible. For
the justice of this, I would appeal to any intelligent
man, who has either heard or read them. “ From
the sublime to the ridiculous,” said Napoleon,
“ there is but one step ;” but in the utterances,
between the vile and the precious, there is not even
that slight interval. Immediately the speakers
cease quoting Scripture, and are left to their own
resources, to the spirit as they would term it, their
discourse becomes ﬂat and contemptible, even
beneath the level of the most ordinary and in
sipid writings. \Vhat a contrast to the “ winged
words” of inspiration! As regards the substance
of them, they are pervaded by one idea, and that
one the topic which has accompanied every as
sumption of prophetic power from the earliest
times, the doctrine of the second advent of our
Lord, the nearness of it, its suddenness, and the
fearful judgments which would attend in its train.
One principal characteristic of the sacred writers
is, their entire sobriety of mind. But spiritual
intoxication, like the more sensual, can subsist
only by dramming. No false prophet or anti
christ has ever appeared, but the leading theme
of his utterances has been the immediate coming
of Christ. And as to that coming, not even the
angels in heaven, he has himself said, are to be
informed of it. As to the place and manner of
s 2
20
it, we need not to go and look after it. (Matt.
xxiv. 27.) Besides, he has warned us against false
prophets, (Ibid. ver. 24.) buthasgiven no intimation
that any more true ones would be sent. Behold the
amount of the proof of their credibility; an un
intelligible sound, a recitation of scraps of Scrip
ture, and exhortations of their own of one idea,
and even the ﬂat phrase in which it is couched
repeated usque ad nauseam. The writer himself
heard a revelation on this wise, “ He is coming,
He is coming, why will ye not repent?” each
word repeated a dozen times, and especially the
monosyllable “ why” repeated as many times
successively in so high and discordant a voice,
that the senseless manner of it excited contempt.
These prophets have now pursued their vocation
for four years, so that their inspirations would
furnish forth a tolerably large volume. How
much has the world lost, that they have not been
preserved ! But Mr. Irving informs us, that
their very value has occasioned this, for that the
“ spoken” word is a higher ordinance than the
“ written.”
So much more commendable then is their hu
mility, as has been remarked, in doing little else
than quoting these same despised prophets. The
gifted do themselves compare it to manna; and
certainly the likeness holds good in this parti
21
cular, that as it has appeared in a day, so it will
perish in a day. The sound is heard within four
walls, and dies out of all recollection ; the manna
instantly melts away, in our act of touching it,
into “ thin thin air.” They have no need 0f_using
the prayer of Hamlet for its liquefaction. Is it
not the characteristic of a true spirit to come to
the light, and of a false one to be huddled up in
darkness? If one of their prophecies comes true,
how are we to be assured of it where it has never
been recorded? If, on the other hand, it is
falsiﬁed, is not the chance diminished of its de
tection? Open your eyes to this mark, ye who
are on the brink of being ensnared by it. Like
the other devices of Satan, it is all a deed of
darkness. The utterance may not be recorded,
and sometimes not even repeated. The un
doubted word is multiplied inﬁnitely. We have
seen that these revelations are secret and ephe
meral, and therefore ill correspond with the dig
nity of a divine communication. When the an
cient prophets spoke
“ In their majestic unaffected style,"
they summoned “ heaven and earth to hear, for
that the Lord had spoken.”
I turn now to another characteristic, to
which I have brieﬂy adverted above. In
22
a recent pamphlet, entitled, “ Prove AllThings,”
a strange mistake has been made, in contrasting
the tenor of these utterances with former acknow
ledged delusions. The author truly says, that it
is characteristic of madness to be inspired with
one idea, and which madness moreover is often
conﬁned to one subject ; so that apart from such
delusion the subject of it is perfectly sane. He,
however, forgets, that this exactly describes the
condition of the gifted persons. Their one idea is
the nearness of the coming of our Lord. The
burden of their utterances is, “ He is coming, He
is coming,” accompanied with an exhortation to
repentance, ever conveyed in the same bald
monotony of expression. If all their sayings had
been recorded and gathered into a volume, would
not the meanest of their adherents be ashamed
to own it? But this the crafty spirit knew well,
and therefore enjoined the strictest secresy.
Another feature of these utterances is, the
unfolding of unfulﬁlled prophecy, instead of ap
plying the mighty scale of the Apostle, that “ one
day is with the Lord as a thousand years,
and a thousand years as one day,” (2 Pet. iii. 8.)
and that we are not to count the slow progress of
divine dispensations “ as men count slackness.”
(Ibid. ver. 9.) The new prophets huddle up all
almost within the hour-glass of a man’s life.
23
They think they shall themselves see the end
of the drama, and they are impatient for the
falling of the curtain.
Another characteristic of these utterances
is the prominent part taken by women. The
Apostle declares that they are not to be allowed
to teach in the churches, for that the place of
authority belongs to the man. “ But I suffer not
a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over
the man, but to be in silence.” (I Tim. ii. 12.)
To this they reply, that of course celestial aﬂlatus
renders the subjects of it superior to all ordinary
rules. True; but is it likely that the Holy
Spirit would so descend upon them, as to cause
them to transgress the limits and proprieties of
their sex? They might and they have been
inspired with lyrical raptures, as in the case of
Miriam, Deborah, Elizabeth, and the Virgin
Mother; but still their inspiration was distinct
from the ofﬁce of teaching, and as not exercising
authority, it “overstepped not the modesty of
their nature.” If God had sent them, there is of
course an end of all discussion; but the ques
tion is, is it likely that he would so send them,
to the violation of natural feelings, and the die
tum of the great Apostle? If this reasoning be
thought insufﬁcient, let us recur to facts. In
the whole Bible, consisting of sixty-six books,
24
not one is written by a female. A few songs
and odes were their production, and nothing
more. _
My next question under this head shall be, they
have made many prophecies, and have they been
fulﬁlled ?
We are unable, in consequence of the com
manded secresy, to refer to any other predictions
than those of Mr. Baxter. It is evident we can
not admit those prophecies to have been fulﬁlled
which areunknown, having never been promul
gated. This would be committing the same ab
surdity, as those who call unknown and unre
cognized sounds a language. In reference to
pretensions to inspiration, in the book of Deute
ronomy the following rule is laid down. “ But
the prophet, which shall presume to speak a
word in my name which I have not commanded
him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of
other gods, even that prophet shall die. And if
thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the
word which the Lord hath not spoken ? When a
prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the
thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the
thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the
prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou
shalt not be afraid of him.” (De'ut. xviii. 20, 21,
22.) The author of the “ Narrative of Facts”
25
uttered not less than ten distinct and unequivo
cal prophecies, and admitting no difference of
interpretation, which were every one of them
falsiﬁed. How can we account for even one
remaining believer after such an exposure ? They
said, that the utterances had a spiritual meaning,
and were not to be understood in the gross carnal
sense. To say nothing of such imbecility, it is
plain, that this principle would render the appli
cation of the Hebrew law that I have cited alto
gether impossible. The Reform Bill of the same
person’s prophecy did not mean the Reform Bill,
but some other Bill in the womb of futurity.
The forty days after which the Apostolic gifts
were to be granted did not mean days, but per
haps years, or centuries, or eras. But to pursue
this matter farther would be wasting my space.
Let all read the “ Narrative of Facts,” and
who can resist its impression ? The “ Morning
Watch,” and the other leaders of the party,
have denounced its circulation. One declares,
that to circulate it is blasphemy. How is it that
they do not perceive how this soreness betrays
their weakness? Job exclaimed, “ O that one
would hear me! behold, my desire is, that mine
adversary had written a book!” but a deed of
darkness can lead to no such desire. It is impa
tient of light and witnesses. In the ﬁrst number
26
of the “ Morning Watch” that appeared after
the publication of the “ Narrative of Facts,” Mr.
Irving indited a paper on “ What caused the fall
of Mr. Baxter;” be it observed, before his fall
was proved, or his book confuted. It might
have been as well if he had ﬁrst proved this
point, before he speculated as to what occasioned
it. To this hour no answer has appeared to the
“ Narrative of Facts.” Every pamphlet intended
as a reply to it has turned upon the point of the
supposed spirit of holiness evinced in the utter
ances. No failure has been disproved. The
continual contradictions between the several
speakers have not been reconciled.
I will review one more absurdity under this
head. Some of the utterances were directed to
an unfolding the design of the mysterious Apo
calypse. These, though unrecorded, are refracted
to the believers through the prism of Mr. Irving’s
mind. “ To repeat these words,” says Mr.
Irving, “ our God hath taught us to be a pro
fanation ;” yet does Mr. Irving undertake to
supply an interpretation of the fourteenth chap
ter of the Apocalypse by the light of these utter
ances. In other words, he usurps a more de
spotic control over their belief and consciences,
than ever did the Pope. For His Holiness never
attempted to destroy Revelation out of the earth;
‘27
yet Mr. Irving, as soon as it is born, having
heard it himself, straightway strangles it, and
then serves out what he conceives to have been
the sense of it, at the same time making no
pretension to infallibility, and no record remain
ing whereby to refresh his memory, or correct
the error of even his fallible judgment. And are
they doomed to receive and to submit to this ?
A dim suspicion of its absurdity and unwarrant
ableness has dawned even upon his mind. “ It
hath not been without fear and trembling that I
have done this, lest I should be profaning the
sacredness of the revelation, or making my own
use of the secret of His mighty strength, which
our Samson had revealed to us. And I have
been much tried to ﬁnd out whether it was right
to continue my ofﬁce of an interpreter in this
way of publishing or not; so that I am in a
strait, and see it not impossible that 1 may with.
draw from it altogether.” Morning Watch, vol.
vi. p. 265. I am glad that they have all with
drawn from the continuing that talented though
mischievous work.
Proceed we now to the fourth head. What
moral eﬂ‘ect have these manifestations had upon the
gifted persons, and also upon those who receive
them?
This inquiry is the more important, because
28
the claimants have produced this sole argument,
that it is blasphemy to attribute such exalted
spirituality to any other author than the Spirit of
God. That the converts should be strictly moral,
every one would of course expect. That is the
lowest attainment of real religion. Whenever we
know that a man is extremely earnest about re
ligion, we take it for granted that he is also moral.
It is said, that it would destroy the peace of many
a good man, to try his practice by the Ten Com
mandments. I believe the same result would
follow, if we were to try the sanctity of the
Irvingites by the Apostolic description of the
fruits of charity.
“ Charity suﬂ'ereth long and is kind.” They
may be kind one to another; but let any person
who has argued with one of them say whether
they are kind to him, or suffer long. The author
of the “ Narrative of Facts” states, and he must
know them well, “ that the delusion produces a
bitterness of spirit, and violence very manifest.”
Will it be said, that they are not bitter to one
another? It would be strange if they were. The
lower animals do not quarrel with their own
species ; but they are impatient and intolerant of
argument, and abound in evil surmises, concern
ing all who oppose their views.
“ Charity envieth not.” A received prophetess
29
confessed to her envying and mimicking the
gifts of her more fortunate sisters. Will it be
said that they do not covet the high places
of the earth, or are intent upon heaping up
riches? They may not be engaged upon these
projects just now, but they have only diﬁ'erred
for the present. They look to enjoy all these
sensual delights, and very soon, on this very
earth, in over measure, for ever.
“ Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puﬂed up.”
The “ Morning Watch” is the very incarnation
of the spirit of the modern sect. I say modern,
because it embodies the principles of all former
fanatics; and what ﬁerce and intolerable pride
appears in its pages! The writers in that now
defunct Journal are the leaders of the party, and
are therefore the fairest exemplars of its spirit.
“ As is the sample, so is the sack.”
“ Doth not behave itself unseemly.” The author
of the " Narrative of Facts” states, “ that see
tarian feelings are generated, and a bitter spirit
of separation.” All who do not admit the utter
ances, are out of the pale of the Church. Can
any thing be more unseemly than this ?
“ Seeketh not her own.” They deem that them
selves, a small band, shall inherit the earth, and
that their wish will be very soon gratiﬁed. Can
there be a form of more intense self seeking ?
30
“ Is not easily provoked.” “ Another charac
teristic is the bitterness of denunciation and hasti
ness of spirit found in the manifestation of the
power.” Narrative of Facts, p. 128.
“ Thinketh no evil.” They are full of a gloomy
disbelief of the godliness of all beyond their pale.
They consider the Church of England to be
"‘ Babylon,” and devoted to her plagues. They
look upon Europe as about to be a slaughter
house, and regard the woes which they have pro
claimed to be soon coming upon men with little
commiseration.
“ Rejoiceth not in iniquity.” To them the shield
of human nature presents no golden side. In
stead of rejoicing at the prosperous issue of
affairs, the worst tidings are the most welcome.
The tumults of the earth are their pastime, be
cause they deem that their redemption draweth
nigh. Meteors, earthquakes, insurrections, they
banquet upon. A list of these is ever received
by them with greediness. To them will apply the
striking image which Jeremy Taylor has trans
ferred into his writings 'from Plutarch. “ They
are like the execrable gates of cities, out of
which nothing but malefactors and public ex
ecutions issue ; nothing that is chaste and holy.”
They are guilty of intellectual cannibalism.
“ But rejoiceth in the truth.” They think that
31
truth is conﬁned to themselves, while they uphold
a cause which is untenable by Scripture or reason.
“ Beareth all things.” Truly they bear with
failures, and contradictions, and silly utterances,
and still remain believers.
“Believeth all things.” They believe a de
testable and impure heresy, that Christ took sin
ful ﬂesh; so congenial does it to them appear
to revel in the contemplation of iniquity and
impurity.
“ Hopeth all things.” They have neither hope
nor wish for the amelioration cf either national or
human affairs. They have avowedly cast to the
winds every remnant of patriotic feeling.
“ Endureth all things.” We never wish them
to be called upon to endure any other incon
venience than scriptural and argumentative dis
cussion. That they patiently endure contempt
and derision, may be equally aﬂirmed of the
Southcotians. A Jew will share the same honour,
and so will every fanatic. But they think that
soon the tables will be turned, and themselves
rule the Lords of the ascendant.
Under this head generally, let a man take in
hand the numbers of the “ Morning Watch,”
which is in truth a vial of wrath. A writer has
remarked with truth and wit, “ that if the meek
are to inherit the earth, the writers of the
32
“ Morning Watch” will come in for a very few
acres of it, seeing that of their meekness there is
a plentiful lack.” The author of “ Prove All
Things” has stated, that Mr. Baxter allows the
moral effects produced by these manifestations
to be entirely and purely good; and then asks,
with an air of triumph, can what is good proceed
from an evil source ‘? can we attribute this peace
ful and holy frame of mind to the working of
Satan? If it were so, he might well triumph;
but it is a direct, though we will not say a wilful,
falsehood. More than half the truth is here sup
pressed. That Satan comes as an angel of light ;
that the gifted persons are sincere but misguided
religionists, having in them the seeds of true
religion, though now choked by tares, will
abundantly account for what holiness is inter
mingled with its operation. _
The following evil qualities are attributed by
Mr. Baxter to the gifted individuals; and this
witness has every thing to recommend him, hav
ing himself experienced its inward working, and
having also enjoyed unlimited intercourse with
the others. It is moreover noticeable, that though
he has abandoned the sect, there does not exist
in his bosom a particle of ill-will towards those
who still remain under the vile enchantment.
His sentiment towards them is that of pure com
33
passion. \Vhen he speaks of them, it is ever
with tenderness. By their own acknowledgment,
and more especially by that of his late pastor, he
possesses a powerful understanding and a simple
heart; in other words, it is to call him one of the
best of men. What then does this unexception
able witness testify to its moral tendency ? He
distinctly attributes to the party the following
vices, than which none are less compatible with
real sanctiﬁcation: a violence and bitterness of
spirit—a proneness to stem and remorseless de
nunciation of all opponents—a sad want of inge
nuousness, evinced in their concealing contradic
tions and failures—credulity, and such a pertur
bation of mind and restlessness, that they change
their views without being conscious of it: more
over he asserts, that this intoxication induces
such an imbecility of understanding, that the re
membrance even of facts is blotted out—also,
that it generates a narrow sectarianism—proud
and dogmatic speculation—a fondness for novel
ties, and an utter prostration of the intellect.
That which most unequivocally decides its cha
racter, is the testimony which he bears to the
ﬁery persecution which the gifted persons endure
under the enchantment of this spirit. His words
are, “ Their state is a furnace of afﬂiction ; that
their spirits are under such bondage, that they
C
34
may truly say, “ The enemy hath persecuted my
soul.”
The author of “ Prove All Things,” however,
states, that the gifted persons keep at home, and
go not forth or excite others to any wild crusade.
The civil and domestic state of the age and so
ciety in which they live accounts for this. In an
earlier or ruder age, the same spirit would have
prompted to overt acts of a ferocious zeal. It is
known to all, that they themselves admit that
two antagonist spirits are at work, one of light
and one of darkness, so that the utterances of
the same person may be alternately true or false;
yet they do not pretend to a discernment of spi
rits. Well then, we must be prepared to learn
that they task the utmost force of their minds to
discern the difference. Let us hear a leading man
among them. “ What! watch against Jesus!
watch against God! watch that our God, whom
we love, may not deceive us! No, verily; we
will not thus watch.” Finally, he couches it all
in one monstrous phrase, “ dead minds cannot
watch.”
It is asserted in a pamphlet of Mr. Drum
mond’s, intended for private circulation, that the
ministrations of the Established Church at Albury
and the neighbourhood are no longer channels of
grace, that all the “streams are turned to blood.”
35
Many may consider this assertion groundless ; I
would, however, incline to the belief, that there
may be some truth in it. If it be so, the
causes are plain. In the spiritual as in the intel
lectual and physical worlds, action and reaction
are equal and contrary. It is conceivable, that
many minds, disgusted by the near sight of ex
travagant delusion, especially if they entertained
some respect for the former characters of the suf- '
ferers, and Mr. Drummond is well known to be a
kind and generous landlord, may have been
driven into the extreme of religious apathy.
When Calvin enforced a rigid civil discipline at
Geneva, Mosheim informs us, that there was an
organized body of open libertines. So is it ever ;
and so in Surrey may the regular ministrations
have been attended with less than their usual
eﬂicacy'.
I have heard it sometimes stated, that a pre
sumption arises in favour of these manifestations,
from the high rank which some of their adherents
possess. Among their adherents are numbered
some of the highest rank. I do not mean to at
tribute a subservient spirit to those who consider
this a favourable indication. If all the believers
consisted only of the lowest of the people, I
should deem this an adverse circumstance. But
why any superiority of judgment should be attri
36
buted to the highest classes over the middle, I
am at a loss to determine. My own judgment
would rather incline to the other side.
Let it be observed, that I have not accused
any of the party of feeling the slightest pride in
consequence of adherents of the class I have
mentioned being found among them, because
that would negative the unworldliness of their
character; but this Ido not mean to deny. I
have, however, introduced this topic, in order to
present to the notice of my reader a moral phe
nomenon: it is this: that heresies in all ages
have most usually been originated, and been sup
ported by, persons of rank and wealth. I will
state a few principles, to enable my readers to
trace the causes of the phenomenon. I must
do those classes the justice to admit, that in
spirit and determination, and heroic enterprise,
they have far exceeded those below them. So
far they have been qualiﬁed, as they have
ever been found, to take the lead in all civil
and religious reforms. But unfortunately there
has been often mingled with the fortitude a
defect of the reasoning power, and a want of that
hard common sense, which especially distin
guishes the middle classes of England. In short,
their faculties have been more akin to poetry,
than to those pursuits of mind which require a
37
tempered judgment. And is not theology pre
eminently among these ?
There is another cause, which, combined with
the above, will fully account for the phenomenon
to which I refer. It consists in that craving for
excitement, in that exhaustion of the usual
sources of interest, and, above all, in that want of
having their opinions and principles enforced by
practice : not mingling so much with their fellow
creatures, and their religious feelings not equally
issuing in appropriate action, these feelings be
come morbid, and require for their excitement
stronger and stronger stimulants. The action of
common and wholesome truth is gradually worn
out, and new opinions and fancies are required
to supply the wonted fuel. On this topic I shall
quote Edmund Burke. “ The great too are
among the unhappy. They want Religions sove
reign balm, under their gnawing cares and anxi
eties, which, being less conversant about the
limited wants of animal life, range without limit,
and are diversiﬁed by inﬁnite combinations in
the wild and unbounded regions of imagination.
Some charitable dole is wanting to these, our
often very unhappy brethren, to ﬁll the gloomy
void which reigns in minds which have nothing
on earth to hope or fear; something to relieve in
the killing languor and overlaboured lassitude of
38
those who have nothing to do; something to
excite an appetite to existence in the palled
satiety, which attends on all pleasures which
may be bought, where nature is not left to her
own process, where even desire is. anticipated,
and therefore fruition defeated by meditated
schemes and contrivances of delight, and no
interval, no obstacle, is interposed between the
wish and the accomplishment.” Reflections on
the Revolution in France.
Nor can it be said, that even true religion
would eradicate this appetite; on the contrary,
unless severely chastised, it might even serve to
inﬂuence it ; for religion modiﬁes, but does not
destroy individuality. And if this appetite is
indulged, and natural inﬁrmities cleave even to
the sincere, then, as it is conceived to have an
all-mighty sanction, it becomes still more in
veterate. Thus misdirected religion is often
guilty of worse excesses and more hardened con
duct than mere morality. The latter mistrusts
itself, the former never.
To ye whose minds are in a state of doubt
relative to these pretensions, and especially to
those who dwell in this city, I will now speak.
And it may be, that although this place [night
probably be the last which open and enthusiastic
heresy would enter and assault, from its nearness
39
to much sound light and knowledge ; yet, on the
other hand, there are many reasons why it should
be principally exposed to such assault. From
these seats those brilliant enthusiasts, Whitﬁeld
and Wesley, issued ; not that I ﬁnd fault with
them, for they were the champions of evangelio
truth, the restorers of languid devotion. They
sprinkled the waters that spring if not in the
heart, yet “ fast by the oracle of God” on the
pale cheek of drooping Faith.
From that mental as well as material law to
which I have referred, an ample and imposing
ceremonial, like that which is the order of this
University, ever generates a mysticism, anxious
to dispense with all forms and all ranks. Even
so again a sound though somewhat frigid form of
doctrine, frigid, I mean, in its mode of inculcation,
equally generates a hot and rampant heresy.
Be warned, therefore, of these inﬂuences, to
which your dwelling in this city may leave you
open. Resist this tempest of the soul, this delu
sion of Satan,
“ Whose face was like the deep, when tempest tossed,
“ And where he gazed a gloom pervaded space,“
in which many are involved.
Are you willing to encounter those hydras of
the mind which I have above enumerated ? And
what answer can you give to the affecting per
40.
sonal experience of the author of the “ Narrative
of Facts ?” Remember the words of Isaiah, “ In
quietness and conﬁdence shall be your strength."
My concluding warning shall be drawn from
the character of the times. What predisposes
the mind to seek further light from heaven, as to
the course of national or European affairs, is
their rapid march and uncertain tendency; still
it is the Christian’s duty not to yield to this
irreligious curiosity, but to be content with per
forming his part in the drama of the world, since
he is doing that which if all men did “truth
would ﬂourish out of the earth, and righteousness
would look down from heaven.” It is our
wisdom not too exactly to meditate on the
amount of vice and inﬁdelity, but to en
deavour to lessen the mass of it, each in his own
province ; and as for the rest,
‘t To shun the mischief which we cannot heal.”
THE END.
\l vi.
l'
BAXTEB, PRINTER, OXFORD.
s.
AT THE SIGN OF THE SHIP. \
We often hear of ‘automatic writing ’ nowadays, less of ‘ auto
matic speaking,’ or the gift of tongues. St. Paul had much to
say about the tongues in his First Epistle to the Corinthians.
They were young converts, and he does not conceal his opinion
that they are far from perfect. Two, or more, would rise at once,
and declaim in languages which neither they nor anyone else
understood. The Apostle speaks plainly about these proceedings,
and it is pretty apparent that he thought ‘ tongues ’ of no
practical value, unless the speaker could either translate them or
get. them translated. Now, about 1830, some persons in Scotland
want-ed ‘ a sign.’ A woman of great saintliness prayed that grace
might be conferred on a Mr. Macdonald, a ship-builder. He
at once said, ‘I have got it,’ and adjured the lady, who was an
invalid, to rise. She did so, and her health improved a good
deal. Not long afterwards Mr. Macdonald began to speak ‘in
tongues' not understanded of the people, and also to talk auto
matically in Scotch. Mr. Erskine, of Linlathen, was much
exercised about these prodigies, but when the Irvingites varied
from his theories concerning ecclesiastical matters his opinion about
the tongues and their miraculous character began to change. At.
one time nothing very remarkable had been occurring at the
eéances where Mr. Macdonald usually spoke. Then there came a
brilliant success. What happened, unluckily, Mr. Erskine does
not tell us, but Mr. Macdonald’s tongues were most eloquent and
unintelligible. That orator, therefore, prayed that he might be
able to translate his own discourses. The power was granted, and
Mr. Macdonald interpreted ‘Disco, capto ’ (spoken in the ‘tongue’)
to signify, ‘ The shout of a king shall be among them.’ The words
do not exactly mean that in Latin, to which profane language
they bear a specious resemblance.
I I
D
After this séance Mr. Erskine observed two women embracing
with every sign of delight. Some days later he asked Mr.
Macdonald what they meant by it. The prophet. replied that
before the meeting these women had prayed for a special mani
festation, and had asked that ‘ the shout of aking mightbeamong
them.’ Mr. Macdonald did not add that those devout ladies were
his own near relations, as was the case. The circumstances did
not make Mr. Erskine suspect Mr. Macdonald’s honesty, but they
did set him thinking. Here are two ladies praying for ‘ the shout
of a king,’ and here is their brother saying ‘Diseo, capto,’ in a
- ﬁﬂ" '7
:08 AT THE SIGN OF THE SHIP.
tongue hypothetically unknown, and then rendering these words
by ‘the shout of a king’ and the rest of it. Granting Mr.
Macdonald’s honesty, which seems to have been unimpeachable,
we must fall back on the hypothesis of ‘ automatic speaking.’
His consciousness on this theory was playing him tricks. It
reminded him of scraps of Latin heard, perhaps, in school, and it
persuaded him that these scraps had a meaning, which had
recently been in his own mind. Further, Mr. Erskine later
detected Mr. Macdonald speaking automatic rubbish based on
casual paragraphs in the newspapers. Mr. Macdonald, when the
matter was thus brought to his notice, very frankly admitted that
Mr. Erskine’s theory was, in these cases, probably correct. His
unconscious self was working up hints from the newspapers, hints
which his conscious self had perhaps entirely forgotten. These
facts are of interest, or may be of interest, to automatic writers.
They are, one conceives, doing with their pens what the automatic
preachers did with their tongues. It is a queer state of mind to
get into, and a jury, in certain circumstances, might decline to
make allowances for the doings of the unconscious self. It is
obviously full of its fun. Among examples from the ‘ Tongues ’
printed by Dr. Hanna, in an appendix to his edition of Mr.
Erskine’s Letters, some of the words are Greek, as Ariatos and
one or two others. Now Greek is not yet a language quite
unknown. Let us imagine that the speakers had heard a little
Greek and forgotten it, as the celebrated kitchen-maid had heard
Hebrew, which she remembered when delirious. The speakers in
those strange old doings on the west coast of 'Scotland may have
been delirious too, in a sense, and then Greek words would pop out
among a jargon of sounds which were not words at all. One of
the speakers is said to have believed that she was talking in the
vernacular of the Pellew Islands. Perhaps the Greek words were
a mistake of the reporter’s, but there was apparently no doubt
about ‘ Disco, capto.’ The Catholic exorcists rather regarded these
sudden linguistic acquirements as a proof of diabolical possession,
but that is a very unfriendly view in face of other less violent
explanations. It does not seem to have been noticed that the
common spiritualistic trick of producing a name written in red
on the arm was exhibited by the lady superior of the
‘possessed’ nuns at Loudun, in the affair of Urbain Grandier,
about 1640. This was after Grandier’s execution. The sceptical
Court ladies who viewed the performance made unfriendly
criticisms, and the topic is only worth mentioning as an illustra—
AT THE SIGN OF THE SHIP. 109
tion of the odd uniformity which marks all these proceedings.
The Loudun case is difficult to study, the accounts are so involved
in Protestant prejudice on one side and superstition on the other.
G i
C
Here follows the epigram of Allan Ramsay, already spoken of;
it really does not strike one as positively startling :—
SPOKEN TO THREE YOUNG LADIES.
Me anes three beauties did surround,
And ilka beauty gave a wound
Whilst they with smiling eye
Said, ‘ Allan, which think ye maist fair ?
Gi’e judgment frankly ; never spare.’
‘ Hard is the task,’ said I,
But added, seeing them see free,
‘ Ladies, ye maun say mair to me,
And my demand right fair is,
First, like the gay celestial three,
Shaw a’ your charms, and then ha’e wi' ye ;
Faith, I shall be your Paris.’
I i
U
\Ve shall perhaps never ﬁnd out why the Nine of Diamonds
is called the Curse of Scotland; but I learn that, after 1715, it
was styled ‘Peter Haldane, or the Curse of Scotland.’ Mr.
Haldane made himself very much hated by greed and malignity
when serving on a commission of inquiry. His name was used
as an alternative to ‘the Curse,’ which, therefore, must be older
than 1715. The authority is a note to Ramsay of Ochtertyre,
vol. ii. p. 482.
i i
C
‘AND SO THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER.’
Therewith the story ends again,
And who is not contented ?
The Ogres all are duly slain,
The Dragons circumvented,
The Princess weds the hero bold
Who came her chains to sever,
And so the blissful pair, we’re told,
‘ Live happily for ever.’
110 141' THE SIGN OF THE $211k
So—Finis! And the book we close,
N0 other facts are granted,
But lovers then, we must suppose,
\Vere never disenchanted;
For them was no domestic strife,
No troubles intervening,
But ‘happiness ’ and ‘ married life ’
\Vere synonyms in meaning. ‘h
We too, perhaps, although we dwell AM”
In different circ .,
Perform the drama fairly well
Set forth in these romances;
The Ogre’s part a parent plays,
The Maid’s an heiress pretty,
The Prince, in these prosaic days,
Is ‘ something in the City.’
But will the parallel extend
Through after-life, I wonder,
When grave philosophers perpend
That marriage is a blunder ?
Ah, chroniclers discreetly mute!
You were, perchance, too clever
To hint at rifts within the lute
Of happiness for ever!
And yet . . . the view is out of date,
By grave statistics shaken,
But still to some, at any rate,
It does not seem mistaken ;
For though the cynic’s bitter mirth
No truth in it discovers,
Love, now as then, can make of earth
A paradise for lovers !
ANTHONY C. DEANE.
A. LANG.
