{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__baxter_mather___certainty_of_the_world_of_spirits_and_wonders_of_the_invisible_world.pdf","mytitle":"Certainty Of The World Of Spirits And Wonders Of The Invisible World","mylang":"de"}
THE CERTAINTY
OP re&
WORLD OF SPIRITS
PULLY EVINCED.
BT
RICHARD BAXTER,
II
.&uTHO& OP THI. " SAINTS' 1.VJillLASTING &I.IT."
To which u tuliled,
THJI WOl'fDBRS
OP
THE INVISIBLE WORLD.
BY
COTTON' lllATHER, D.D. & P.R.S.
The former taken from the Edition published
by Mr. Baster, 1691, a few months
before his Death.
Th• latter from the " Ecclesiastical History
of New Englt.n<l," publishec\ 1702,
LONDON:
Printecl and publiMiecl by
JOSEPH SMITH, 193, HIGH HOLBORN.
1834.
"Cooglc
/
Speaking of Ghott., .tc. Dr.1obnaon obaeryed:-
" This is a question which, aner fiye thousand
yean, is still ~ndecided :--a question, whe*ti'
in Theology or Philosophy, one of the molt im•
portanl that can come before the human under•
'atandillg."-Bo1wm.1.'1 Lin OP JoaxsoN•
.....
.LOCKf!.STACQ
I .., -;
. - /
--;> 1/
....... ::·'p
~\,- '7 (I'
·_,
/ \ l r- () Google
PREFACE..
·Js an age like the pment, when the gloriou
light ohhe· Gospel, the life ef faith, and the won-
.dera of the inYisible world, are neglected or de-
1piled ;-when·a base and !lp'U'ious philosophy has
uurped an nocon&rolled empire onr die minds ef
men, aod " tcience, falsely so called," has plUl'ed
$IMm np with a·high conceit of superior wildom,
1111 attempt te. tlrag frem obacurity the treasUTes of
f'ormer times, and eshibit to- the present age the
knowledge aad ezperience-of the past, may be ex-
pected &lo meet wit.h any &biog ra&her than a fayour-
M>le .-eptioo. ,.. W.ba& !" will die modem Sad-
ducee exclaim, " will 7011 at thia time·of day llore
w with obeolet•aod incredible etori• of witchee,
ghoete, and 11pparitiOD1.?: WiU you. retrograde the·
m•cb of science, and oarry back the- intelligence
or the prtffDt age to the standard of the 17th.
-tary ? Will. you·eencl na to Dr; Cotton Mather
for philosophf, or to Mr. Richard Buter for team•
ing. or common. sense !" And· why not f· They
w.e bright aad shining· lights in thei11 generation,.
in an age- ~ unenlightened by 1oienoe, or de-
lcient in. aoute·an<t eubtle reuoning, sound sense,
or solid philosophy. In this age dourished a
Bacon~ •Boyle; a Barrow, and a Hale. .In thie
ap, the upiring muee of Milton bounded oa
towering wing- her way to-heaven, travereed the
manaiou of die· bleat, and with the· enchanting
iucio of her laf " called up spirits from the naty
deep.". Whila~ ihe 11111 eye aad penetratiDf.
•
"Cooglc
-·
i~ PREFACE.
. ;
mind of Newton ezplored the 1eeret1 or natne.
revealed the law1 of matter, and instructed men in
the order and harmony of the unirene,
Superior beiap, when of late tliey saw
A mortal man unfold all Nature's law,
Admired such wis!ioqi in.an earthly shape,
And viewed a ll'ewtOfl aa we view an ape.
Shall it then be thought bnie.tla lite pNmlt
nee of scholan to gather iaatructioa from euch m
·qe u this? All knowledge ia utuable, if, as it is
generally admitted, expf'1ienoe is the parent el
wisdom. If the lnowledge of the praent i1 de-
rived from the fact1 and experience of the put (a
truth which we presume few, if any, will doabt or
deny), it follows, that the more extensive and ac-
.curate information we poaseea of sncb fact& and
experienoe, the tnore correct will be our conclu-
aions, and the more comprehensive and exact our
·knowledge. "But the author& wbom we would re-
commend are weak and cr.dulous men !-belieYen
ln ghost•, nd r-elatns of fa\ulons tal81 I" But ue
these tales fabulou1 ! This is the question to be
tried. Will it be admitted that Uier wewe hon•t
men ? Did they posseas sufficient integrity and
common sense to be admitted, if now !iring, to
give evidence in a court of law on any important
fa~t ll'hich had come under their own obaervatiOIP,
We belie•e that their tatimony woald t.e eon-
aidered not only admi11ihle, but &IDple and con-
vincing. Let u1 take a 1hort v.iew of their liv•
and cbaracten.
Richard Buter, •is well lcno-, wu an ..U..
neut nonconformist divine, and, like rnniy others
of bi1 scrupulous brethren at tllu timf\ a suWerer
(Qr coneeienee sake. He ia Nponed to have hMl
the boldnees and courage of an apostle, eud die
anedeaty and piety ef a taint. He remonstratei
"Cooglc
.PRET"ACE.
,learle11ly with the usurper Cromwell, and ex•
pressed his honest dissatisfaction at his meaaures.
·After the Revolution, be received considerable
attentions from the Court, was appointed chaplain
in ordinary to the King, and olrered a biahoprick.
But what was bis answer to this proposal-that be
required no " .
other favour than to be permitted
to continue minister of Kidderminster,". Bishop
Burnett, who lived at the time, and must be con•
eidered a competent authority on this point, say1,
" Mr. Baxter was a man of 81.eat piety, and if be
had not meddled with too many things, would
have been considered one of the molt learned men
of his age : he had a moving and pathetical way o£
writinir, and was his whole life long a man of great
seal and much 1implicity, but was unhappily 1tabti.
and metapl•ylical in every thing."•
Dr. Cotton Mather, another of our supposed
weak and incompetent witnesses, was born at Bos-
ton, in New England, 1663. Before be was
twelve years old he bad made a considerable pro-
gress in the Greek and Latin languages, and even
entered upon Hebrew, so that, young u he was,
he was admitted to Harvard College, where he
· took his first degree at the age of sillteen, and his
second at nineteen. In 1684 he became minister
at Boston, in the diligent discharge of the duties
of which office, and in writing no less than three
hundred and eighty-two books, pamphlets, &c., he
spent bis life. lie acquired 10 high a character
for prudence and wisdom, that be was frequently
.conaul~ed on affairs of 1tate. Nor was his fame
• He was " subtle and metaphysical," aaya the
Bishop, and yet " waa his whole life long a maa
of much simplicity ;"-that is, be posseaaed the
.wiadom of the serpent and the barmlennesa of thq
dove.-Matt. x. 16.
"Cooglc
PREPA·CE.
eonSned to hit own country. In 1710 the learn<!d
UniYersity or Glasgow sent him a diploma for the
degree of D. D.; and in 1714 the Royal Society of
London chose him one of their Fellows. • The
j>ioua and excellent Thomas Bradbury, in his In-
troduction to Mr. Mather'• " Christian Philoso-
pher," say1, " Thia work abowt, from the diaco-
nries which are brought together, with 1'"hat
epirit the author bu pursued his inquiriea into
the wonders of the uniYerse. He bu drawn in\o
bia application all·that the Bible batIi said ou the
aubject, and thaa Jaye open the two great booka ot
God-Nature and Scripture."
These, then, are the meu who are said to be
weak and creduiou1, and the authors of fabulous
aud senaelese talee, because they were persuaded
er( the reality of aupematural appearancee, and the
narrators of facta which had come under the ob-
terntion of their own sensee ; facts, witueaaed
not only by themaeivee, but others; atteeted by
aged aud nnerable ministers of the gospel; and
published at the time and in the countriea where
theee scenes are said to have been enacted. The
former published at London, in a cheap form, and
widely di1trib11ted; the latter at Boston, in
America, by special command of bis EKellency
the Governor of Massachusetts Bay. f And here
we cannot but expreea our surprise and regret
that any, who call themselvee Christians, should
" unequally yoke themselves together with unbe-
lievers," and madly conspire to depreciate an~
d•troy liiltorical nidence. Do they think that, by
• General Biographical Dictionary.
t Republished iu London, 1693, 4to.; and in
1702, the principal parts of it were incorporated
in bit gnat work, " The Eceleailllitical History of
New England," ·
"Cooglc
P.RBPACB. rii
wcl'lktaing lauman ltmfl!MIY, they aliall ,,..,.,,,._
faith, or promote religion ! They are miataken,
Were they to eucce<!d, the world would beco- •
wildemett or eonruaion, and mankind be in•ol•ed
in one common scene of ignorance, scepti~iaai, and
infidelity. Yet so far will the pride or science.
and the rascinationa of faYourite theorie1, lead
111en. Mr. Newnham, in a recent work on Super•
atitioa, published under the sanction of the
Bishop of Winchester, nys, " It bu been stated
that all histories or apparitions rest on the same
liasis of human tntimofly, but thi• ia not a 1<1/e
fvuttda.tion for belitf, ainee it is liable to be acted
upon by passion, prejudice," &e. Again, " The
esistence of spiritual beings cannot be lkmotl•
1trated, and must be received as a mattw of faith.
Now on this view of the subject we rest our be·
lief; not on the treachtroui fountlatiott of tnt1"tly
hu111an tellimony, but on the sure word of God,
which reveals to us the attributes &nd operations
of the Holy Spirit, and also speaks of good and
bad spirits," &e. But does not our belief in the
genuineness and authenticity of the Seripturca
tbem5elvea depend in a great measure upon hn•
man testimony-upon early ecclesiastical history-
and the traditions of the church? How should
we be usured, for instance, that the prophecy of
the destruction of Jerusalem was not, u Voltaire
asserts, written after the enot, but that we learn,
Crom the concunent testimony of primiti.e times,
that the books containing this prediction prmawly
e.rille1l-that they were read in the churche-
quoted by the Apostolical Fathers-and esteemed
u.ered by the early Christiana. We shall not stop
here to argu1> the question, whether the existence
of spiritual beinp can or cannot be demonstrated,
or whether the belier of them doea, as this learned
author affirms, entirely depend upon Scdpture
tfttimon7, seeing that all 11aiioo1 b&\·e entertained
"Cooglc
I
PREPACE.;
sbme notion or a deity, as well as or good and
b.d angels. It would not seem improbable that ·
it is an early and natural revelation of God to
man ; nor does thi1 opinion want the countenance
of inspiration itself. St. Paul, in hia Epistle to
t'ha Romans, says, " That which may be known
or God is manifest in them, for God bath shewed
it unto them ; for the invisible things or him from
the beginning are clearly &ten, being understood
by the things that are made, even his eternal
J-OWt'r and Godhead." But though we do not aee
reason to think with Mr. Newnham, that the ez-
isteuce of spiritual beings is nowhere rnealed bnt ·
in the iure tDOrd of God, yet we do admit that
their existence, as well as their operations and
vilible appearances, are therein amply and fully
disclosed. That good angels interest themsehes
in the affairs of men, and are commissioned to
auccour and anist them-that they are minidmng
ipiriti, 1ent out to minirter /or tho1e tDho 1MU bd
J.eiri of 1al1•ation, all Christians, we believe, ad-
mit. But as some pretend to doubt, and others
deny, the corporeal appearance and visible .opera-
tions of e;il lpirit1, we shall examine what the
Scriptures of truth declare on the subject.• hap-
• We shall nnt dwell upon the following pu-
1age11, although they furni•h arguments which
ihose who adhere to the letter of Scripture, and do
not run into Mr. Woolston'• my•tical 1en1-or
ra\ber n0fll4!1Ue-cannot avoid. The Devil meta-
morpho1ed himself into the shape of a serpent, to
converse with and tempt Adam and Eve. Evil
angels were sent among the Egyptians (Psalm
luviii. 49) ; nil angels were not permitted to
come into the Israelites' houses (Exodus xii. 23);
Satan raised the great storm that blew down the
~ ot Job'• children (Jobi. 19); and 1mote bia.
, ,Google
~REP' ACE. i:r.
peen..then, that when Moses and Aaron went do'lnl"
into Egypt to demand the liberation of their coun-
trymen, and proposed miracles as a proof of their
power aad authority, they were for some time op-
poted by the equally extraordinary pretensions of
the Egyptian magicians.-(See Exod. ch. vii, &c.)
Now although these sorcerers were obliged finally
to give way, and acknowledge that the miracles of
~oses were wrought "by tli,e finger o.f God," yet
it cannot be doubted that their feats were also
. aupematural and miraculous; and as it is not
likely that God would arm them with power in .
order to baftl.e or retard the designs of his own
messengers, we can only suppose them assisted by
some e•il and malignant demon. One of the
earliest commands of the Goo of Israel was-
.. Thou shalt not sulrer a witch to live." And
the prohibition is afterwards further explained and
enforced-" There shall not be found among you
any one that use.
th divination, or an observer of
times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmtt,
or a conaulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or
a necromancer-these shall be put to death-they
shall stone them with stones."-Deuteron. niii.
10, 11; Leviticus xxvii. Now surely it cannot
be imagined that these laws were ordained by
God to repress imaginary crimes, or to punish
imaginary beings. But to set the matter beyond
any possibility of doubt, we find examples of the
actual exercise of these diabolical arts. First, in
the case of Saul and the Witch of Endor (1 Sam.
body all over with boils (Job ii. 7); and when
God asked Satan whence be came, he answered,
"from going to and fro in the earth" (Jobi. 7.)-
See Glanvil s " Sadducismus Triumpbatus," p.
236, edit. 1726,
"Cooglc
PilEFA<:E.
uwiii.) ;• aecondly, in that of Menaseeh, a subae-
-quent king of Jerunlem, who " obserYed times,
aod used enchantineuta, and dealt with familiar
• There ban not been wanting witty and con-
-ceited writert to burlesque, ridicule,' and penert
this 11 well 11 other paanges of Scripture. Ac-
·cording to Reginald Scott and Mr. Webster, there
vu nothing extraordinary or supernatural in the
whole of this atrair, but it wu a mere piece of
lµgglery and imposture. "The woman cut herself
into a feigned trance, and lay gro•t>lling upon the
·earth, and ao changing her Yoice, did mutter and
murmur, and peep and chirp, like a bird coming
forth from the shell ;-or spake through aome hol-
low cue or vault, or through some pipe, or in a
11ottle ;-or had a confederate apparelled like s..
muel to play hia part ;-nd that it wu neither
·Samuel's body, soul, ghoat, or devil, but only the
-c1111ning and imposture of the woman alone, or
assisted with a confederati.."-Diaplay of Witch-
crafts, p. 166. But bow could this confederate
knave all of a sudden posses& and clothe himself
with the 1aM"dotol habit ?-bow did be manage to
-change hie face, and mien, and Yoice, 10 as to dis-
course for a long time with Saul (who was inti-
mately acquainted with Samuel) without detec-
tioft ?-how did thev contriwe to foretell with such
accuracy and exactnesa Saul's impending fate?-
But that it wsa the ghost of Saul that appeared, ia
put all reasonable doubt. Dr. Delaney says-
" The '°" of Siraeh, who seema to hue bad u
much wisdom and penetration u any critic that
came after him, is clearly of opinion with the
sacred historian, that it waa Samuel himself; lpd
it is no unfair presumption that it waa also the
judgment oftbe Jewish church iu hia time." His
"Cooglc
.PREFAC&.
!e.
irit• and wizards, and proYOked Qocl to anger,"
{2.tGng• xxi. 6.)' The Jews, obatinate and pet•
'verse, were always inclined to imitate the rites
and usages of the neighbouring nations. Idolatry
was forbidden under the severest penalties, yet
'Y~re tbey continually falling into this int)'iou1
"1ld 1en1eless practice. And notwiths&aoding the
frequent denunciations against sorcery and witcla•
eraft, they could nner be brought entir,.ly to
abandon them. St. Paul, addresaing the Gala•
tian converts, who appear to have been mostly
J.ews, mentions idolatry and witchcraft amongst
t,lle works of the desh, telling them, that they who
. !Io such things shall not inherit the kingdom of
God.-(Gallat. v. 20, 21.) At Ephesus we )lear
of certain J1JW1, Ezorci1t1, and others, wllo used
i:urious a1ta.-(Acts xix, 16-19.) And Chrii;t
speaks of such practices as common unongst them•
.. If r lif8eeh:ebub cast out devils, by whom do
your children east them out? therefore taey shall
~your judges."-(Matt. xii. 27.)• But tbo111h
words are, " After his death" (spea)dng of Sa·
11>\lel) " he prophesied and showed the king. his
ii¥d."-Ecclesiastic. xlvi. 20. The text positively
calls him Samuel (in the original, Sa••el hi•·
•eif) " And Saul perceived tbM it wu Samuel,"
ver. 14; " And Sa11111el said to Sul," Yer. U;
" Then Saul was sore afraid because of the wol'lls
·0.f Samuel," Yer. 20. Now it is to be obsenecl
that these are not the e.spreuions of Saul, or of tlte
1".itch, but of that infallible Spirit who dictated
\he Holy Scripturea.-(See more to tbis purpose,
a,a weII as a clear and aati&factory defence of tile
passages before cited from Ezodu1, Dfll.fw011on.y,
4:c., in the learn•d Dr. Henry More's Postacript
~tached to Mr. Glanvil'• " Sadducitmus Tri•
1Jmjhatus.")
.• . It ia plain (••YI Mr. Scsitt> th•t there were
.d
"Cooglc
/
sii PREFACE.
··dleae dark and diabolical praeticee could not \e
J'ntrained by the dead leuer of the law, they we,.
unable to stand before the mighty power an4
thoee who made it their buainna to expel evil
apirita from po11es1ed penona (Acta xis. 13-16);
and that aome of them were countenanced bf &he
Pharisees. Now tbeae esorcista might be left to
determine the cause betwixt Jesus and bis &e•
c111ers. If they asserted that be " cut out devilt
by the prince of the devils," they could not proye
that their own children or disciples cast them out
by any other power; and if they ucribed the u-
orciams or these persons to the assistance of God,
bow could they doubt of tboae elfected by Jesus
being the aame, when they are every way 10 nady
auperior.-Commnttory on tlie Bible. Dr. Whitby
aaya, .. that it ,... the custom of the Jews to cut
oat derils by the invocation of the t1a.111<1 of tM
Moat High, or of tbt> God of Abraham, I1au, aull
Jaeob." Joeepbua inform• us that they derived
&bis art from Solomon. Justin Martyr says to
Tryph<>, tbe Jew, " If you eiorcise io the name 0£
the God of Abraham, perhaps the demon will
obey you.'' This (aaya Mr. Eisley} took place in
the ume of Christ, as the test here intimatea, Uld
also before and after hia appearance. Thus
lrelUBUI, " By the invocation of the Most High.
even before the adHnt of our Lord, men were
saved from evil spirits, and even to this day they
are thus expelled by the Jen." See also Ter-
tullian adv• .Marcion. Josephus relates that be
aaw Eka1ar, a Jew, espel demons before the Em·
perer Vespa•ian. Origen says, " that the uate
of the God of AbraJ.am, 11aac, and Jacob, being
used by the Jewa in their Incantations, did great
mira.clu.'' From the Jewa, the Egyptian• aad
other h•tbena borrowed these forms of adj1u..
"Cooglc
PREFACE. :&iii
)ioriog pNltn~ of the meuengen of God. The
1'4Jvptian magician rinlled for a while the mirvlea
ot Moees, by turning their rods into Mrpt'DU, and
the waten of Egypt into blood, but they were IOOll
discom6ted and subdued, and obliged to acknow-
ledge the s.upremacy or the God or IaneL In like
m.anner did Elymu the sorcerer withstand Paul to
his face, but the hand or the Lord came upon hilll0
and he was atruck bliod.-(Acta xiii.) So alto
the Spirit of God triumphed over the aon:eries or
the Jews, and entering into this " atrong man'a
hi)Uae" or supentition, .. spoiled hi• good1 ;" for
when Paul was at Epbesus, the Jewish exorci1ta0
and others who used curious artl, seeing the mira-
cles which the apo!!tles did, and finding that the
power or their craft was gone, " eame and con-
fH1ed, and shewed their deeds, and brought their
tiiin in their magical practices; thua the words
.Adonai and Zebooth were frequent with tbem."-
Whitby'• Paraplwtue, and Elile1js .Annotatiou;
It appears, also, that at this time the power of
ca1ting out derila wu possessed by a spurious aorc
oC Christian-,robably 1ome or the early heretica.
That thP.y Wt're not J f"' appt"an evident, for
these, as long as they continued attached to the
ancient faith, were always agaiut, or oppo1ed to
Christ, Neither contd they be true and orthodo1:
Christians, for they followed not Chri1t and hia
di11eiples, " nor conYeraed with them as brethren."
seya Doddridge (&pontor. sect. 96). They were,
therefore, censored by the apostles, and thought
by them unworthy to po11ess so ucellent a gift.
John aaid, "Matter, we saw one caating oue
devils in thy name, and he follnweth not 111, and
we forbid him because be followeth not 111 : ancl
Jesua said, Fnrl:>id him not, for he that ia not
"1ain1t"' ia for ua."-Luke ix. 49, ~O.
"Cooglc
P·REPAC!•.
lteoltt toietlier and burned them bet'ore all men." ;
-(Aeta 1ill. 11-13.) And what became or the
mighty wonders or that prince or magicians, Sint01l
Nag"? Altho11gh bis sorceries were or 10 mag-
nificent and imposing a character that he had for a
lmtg ti""' bewitched the people or Samaria, fro.,,.
tM lMUt to the gi-M.tett, and e•en succeeded in per-
auading them that be was the gttat powr of God,
no sooner did Philip go amongst them, than the
peopl• Jef't the magician, " and were baptised,
ltoth mea and women;" nay, even Simon himself,
beholding and wondering at the things that were
done, profeued also to believe, desiring, says Mr.
Bnter, to promote bis own greatness, and nnt
Christ'• interest and honour, and therefore would
hue bought the power or giving tf•e Holy Gho1t,
11141 he might laatie tlai1 adkd to the red of hi•
eotl<kr1, to maJte great hia name, and to bring him
yet into higher admiration of the people: where-
1pon be received that heavy censure, Acts viii. 20,
also nr. 9, 10, ll, 18, 19, an.i so became the leader of
a delu..ed sect, and an opposer of the apostles. To
Rome he would go on Satan's wor1C, as they did on
Chriat's, and there, by his witchcrafts, got into 10
much admiration, in the days of Claudius, that he
was taken for t. god, and had a atatiui aet up to
him.-See Justin Martyr, Apology 2.• In bis
• Dr. Middleton assl!l'ts, on the authority of an
ancient inscription, dug up two or three centuries
aRo, that the itatue, said to be dedicated to Simon
Magus, was erected in honour of a Sabine deity of
a aimit.r name, Semoni San~o. But how could
J uatin hue made such a mistake: he was at Rome
when he wrote bis Apology, and not long after the
time of Simon; he miut have been surrounded by
intP.lli(!ent Christians, who had been bom and
l>rougbt up at Rome,and who would certainly ba'•
"Cooglc
PREFACE.
cmitendln~ with the apostles, be wouM needs f!y,
ia the sight of the people, but at tbr puyera of
Peter aml Paul be tumbled down, and ended hia
wretched life. Arnobius says, " th. Romani 1ato
the race ofSimOll ma4 hi1fiery c1a11riot1' blown away
by the mouth of Pettr." These facts are attested,
not by one or two, but·by most of the writers of
the llrst ages who meddle with church history-see
Epipbanius, Cyril of 1erusalem, Amobiu•, Pbilos•
trius, Tbeodoret, Sulpicins Severus, and others.•
But though the powers of darknl'lls were thus
dri•en back and defeated, they were not ·c1e·
atroyed: arter tbe death of the apoetlea they.again
rallied their broken forces, and recommenced the
practice of their dark, mysterious, and mischiP.Toua
arts. We shall proceed to show, in opposition to
Dr. Conyers Middl..ton, and other modem Saddn-
cees, that miracles, bothdmnoniacal and dil'ine, con-
tinued long after the age of the apostles. In our
Lord's commission to the apostles, he said, " Go
ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to
seen and corrected the error before the Apolog}'
was presented to tl1e emperor and senate; but the
atatttes were so dissimilar, that it was scarcely
poasible for any man of oommon sense, who was
upon the spot, to confound them. Simon's was
made ofbrau, the other of stone; the inscriptions
were also difl'erent; Simon's was inscribed, Simoni
Deo &meta : the other, Semoni &ngo Deo Fidio;
&TJd it is remarkable that St. Augustine, who gi•ea
the aame hiotory of Simon's statue that 1u1tin
does. distinguishes it from that of Semo Sancus,
which both he and Lactantius particularly men•
tion.-See Dodwell's answer to Middleton, 1649;
and Brooke's Examination, 17~0.
• Baxter's " Unreasonableness of lnlldelity,"'
pa1t 8, paie 123, &c.
, "Cooglc
:ni PREFACE.
eHry creator•; and these 1ign1 aball Collow them
that belien, in my name ahall d1ey cast out dnils.
they aball speak with new tongues, they shall take
up serpenta, and if they drink any deadly thing it
shall not hurt them, they aball lay banda on the
sick and they aball reconr."-Mark xvi.17. Dr.
Gill, in hia commentary upon the 15th verse of
t1iis chapter, aaya, that this commission not only
i1Jclt1ded the apostles, but reached to all the mi•
nisters of the Gospel in succeeding ages, to the
e11d of the world. And after the same- manner
divines generally interpret a parallel paaaage,
Matthew x:uiii. 20. Archbishop Potter says,
". Since the apostles all died within the compass
of fourscore years after this extensive promiae W&I
made, it could no other way be fulfilled than by
our Lord'• being with their auceeaaors to the end
of the world." Now, that this ia the true inter•
pretation is evident, for the apostles could no&
have gone out into all the world; America, and
many other parts, not having then been dis-
covered ; nor could the Gospel have been preached
to every creature, or all the heathen, es some have
it, in so short a apace of time as the lives of the
apostlea; we must therefore look to future &gP.a
for its accomplishment, and we need not go far to
iind it. During the fint four centuries, many of
theoe signs followed the preaching of the Gospel,
as Dr. Whitby on this chapter, and in·hia General
Preface to the Epistles, has fully proved: nav,
e•en Jews have been known to work miracles by
the name of Christ. Our Sa•iour told his disci-
ples, that "false Christs and f•lae prophets should
arise, and show great signs and wonders, insomuch
that, if it were possible, they should deceive _even
the very elect;"-Matthew xxiv. 24, and the
apostle tells us that the coming of Antichrist ia
to be •.
• after tbe working of Satan with all power,
and 1ign1, and lying wondera,"-Tbeu. ii. 9 ;"aee
"Cooglc
,PREPACE. :nri
aleo Ru. :ni. 14 ;-" Not fictitious or counteT-
feit miracles," says the learned Mr. Re.Yes,• " but
tnie, real, supernatnral wondert, wrought in eon-
irmation of a lie ; for if they were tricks and ap-
pearancee only, how could the coming of Anti-
cbrUt be said to be according to the working of
Satan with all power T" From the&e passages,
~en, it appeart evident, that wonclen, signs, and
miracl•, were to continue; and of the fact of
their continuance we are fully assured, by tbe
unanimous tflltimony or sueceedlng ..,es. Justin
Martyr, a man " educated in all the Grecian
learning and philosophy, and one of the earliest
writers of the Chriatian Church,"t aays, that in
his time both men and wofnen were endued with
the utraardinary gifts of the Spirit or God. That
Satan was every where cast out or po11essed per-
sona, and driHn away by the Christians, when all
other ezorciats and enchanters had failed in the
attempt; this, he says, might be aeen by enry
one, not' only at Rome, but in all parts of the
world. lrenaeus, who llourished A. D. 184, says,
that in hit daya all who were disciples of Chritt
wrought miracle1 in his name, and that the dead
were frequently railed through their fasting and
prayers, and Jiyed afterwards 111&11y years amongst
them.
Tertullian,t and after him Cyprian, made public
challenge1 to all the Pagans, and to their perse-
cuting rulert, to bring those poaaesaed with devils
into the Christian usemblies, and if they did not
.cut them out, anll make them confess themaelves
• Reeves·a" Apologies of Justin Martyr," &c.
voL ii. page 276.
t General Biographical Dictionary.
t Tertulliao louriab.ed A. D. 198. Cypriaa1
A. J).2~0.
"Cooglc
1Yiii .PRIP.\OL,
Jo be deYilt, &lld Christ to lie the Son of GGd•
then they were content to suff'er. Origen, no
llouriahed A. ~· 230, aays, that in hit time derile
were every where cut out of poa-aed p-,
enn by the meanest 1ort of Chri1tiana, without
any ceremony, bnt merely by their prayen,
Theopbilut of Antioch, Minutiua Felix, Arao-
bius, Lactantius, and 1uliua Fermiciutr, carry
down the evidence oC miraclea as low as the begi.,
.ning of the 4th century, Con1tantine, it-ia well
known, was connrted to Chriatianity by the e:m•
bibition of a cross suspended in the air ; and that
renegade and apoatate, 1ulian, was driven frOlll bis
impious attempt to rebuild 1erusalem, by fiery·
eruption• and tremendous tbunder.-(See thff
fully proved in Bishop Warburton's "Julien.")
Socrates relatea, that at Conatantinople, where lte
himself reaided, a -
Jew, _
who had been a paralytic
for many years, and Cl>Uld find no relief, was, on
being baptised, immediately reliend from bis·
di1ease; he concludes hi• account with saying, ·
that many Greek1, upon seeing the miracle, ff.
lined, and were baptized.
About the year 373, Macariue the elder wn
greatly diatingui.shed in Egypt by bia gift of P"""
.pbecy, the power of healing diseases, and castmg
out devils; all which powers areCully and strongly
atte&ted by Socrates, Sozomen, and Theodoret.·
Miracles are also attested by Saint Athanasius,
St.int Ambro&e, Saint Jerome, and others, tbe
most learned, orthodox, and pious divinee of this
.or indeed any other age. Saint Augustine aays,•
that miracles were 10 frequent and extraordinary
·in his time, that large accounts were written and.
• De CiYitate Dei, lib. 22, cap. 9. Confess,
lib. 9, cap. 7. D~ Unitate Eccl... cap. 10. Serm.
de dinr" 39.
"Cooglc
PREl'ACE.1
ipublialoed or them, and read to the people in the
c:hlll'Chea ; some of these are said to hue been
done before many witnesses, some in the public
uaemblies, and some in his own preaence.
It is useless to descend farther. It1 no "fe hatl
God Z.fl hitrUelf U>itl&Ollt toitneue1; but aeemg the
ignorance of men, " ei:er lean&it1g, Olld - eot11e
to IM lt~e of tlui h'utl," ri•etted in their af-
fections to the rarth, and foolishly inclined to at•
tribute every thing to 1ec<mtl catun, be permits,
oidaios, or operates, in eYE"rY&{le, 1uc:b strange and
unnatural efl'ec:ta u aball awaken their dull and
grovelling 111ind1 to tlae contemplation or a luper-
intending power and proYidenc:E", and to a aensible•
oonviction of the world of 1pirita. It would carry
m beyond the limits of a preface, werr we to at-
&empt to exhibit to our readen 1 view of I he ac•
c:umulated evidence fumiabed by the dark a11e•.
Puaing by these, as well u the teatimonies of the
Jl.eformera and early Protestant writera, we shall
come down at once to the 17th century: an age
abounding in every variety of learning, and full of
the moat surpri&ing wondera ; nor need we stop
long even here; as these are amply displayed in
the works before ua. We 1hall therefore merely
add, to the facta already collected, a few which,
though alluded to by our authon, do not appear to
haYe come under their immediate and penonal
obae"ation ; we mean the extraordinary cures
efl'ected by the royal touch, and tboae produced by
the haoda of Mr. Valentine Greatarick. With re-
gard to the former, we might multiply proofa to
any extent ; the fact is ao well at\eated, that to
• " Many can apprehend theae arguments from
sense, who cannot yet reach, and will not be con•
•inced by other clemonatration1.-Saint1' Btll,
J'Grl 2, chap. 7.
, ,Google
!"REF ACE~
disbelieve-it, u Mr. Jer. Collier obse"es. is to nm•
into the excesses of scepticism. We sha!l take the
account given by one who was an eye-witness, anti
being an experienced and eminent surgeon, he
must be considered fully competent to jud!!e of the
matter:-" It is not my business," says Mr. Wise•
man,• " to enter into diYinity controversies; all
that I pretend to is, first, the attestation of the
miracles, and secondly, a direction for such as
heve not opportunity of receiving the benefit of
this stupendoua power; the former of these one'
wouldJhink should need no other proof than the
great concourse of strumous persons to Whitehall,
and the success they find in it; I myselfhare bee•·
o frequent ~Je-tDitne" of many hundred: of curei,
performed by his majesty's touch alone, without
any assistance of chirurgery, and the;e, m:my of'
them, such a• had tired out t/ld eadeat>ourt of ablf
chirurgeou before they came thither. It were
endless to recite what I myself ha•·e seen, and
what I hat·e received acknowledgments of by
letter, not only from several parts of this nation,
but also from Ireland and Scotland. Some will
impute it to the journey and change of air, others
to the etfect of imagination; the first of these is
easily confuted, by the hundreds of instances that
are to be given of the inhabitants of this city,
who certainly could meet with little change of air,
• "Chirurgical Treatises," by Richard Wiseman,
serjeant chirurgeon to King Charlea the Second.
London, 4th edition, 1705, Folio. As a profes-
sional work, its reputation may be &0111ewha~
estimated by the numher of editions which so
bulky a volume has gone through. It has a!•o
been admired for the purity and correctness or its
etyle. Dr. Johnson, in his large Dictionary, ha$ ·
made numerous quotations from it.
"Cooglc •
Pl\EFACL· xsi
or hldeed of exercise, in a joume:r to Whitehall;
the second is as readily taken off, by the eLimpJe.
of infant., who have been frequeutly healed,
though they haYe not been old enough to imagine
anything, or do any act, tbat could contribute to
the cure." Of the cureA performed by Mr. Valen-
tiu <heatarick. Doctor Henry Stubbe,• a learned
physician, and an eye-witness, has giYen the fol·
lowing account:-" I do not relate to you the re-
ports of interested monks and friars, concernini
things done in private cells. An infinite number
of nobility, gentry, and clergy of Warwickshire,
persons too understanding to be deceived, and too
honourable and worthy to deceive, will atow, that
they hue seen him publicly cure the lame, the
blind, the deaf, the perhaps not unjustly supposed
demoniacs, and lepers, beside the asthma, falling
ai&:nesa, &c.-(page 4.) I saw him put his
finger into the ears of a man who was very thick
of hearing, and immediately he heard me, when I
asked him very softly several questions. I saw
another, whom he had touched three weeks before
for a dearness in one ear, whom I had known to be
so many years; I stopped the other ear very close,
and I found him to hear nry well, as we spoke in
a tone no way beyond our ordinary conversation.
Some I observed to have received no help by him
at all, some to have received a momentarl benefit,
and 1ome as yet continue so well, that think I
can p.fely say that they ara cured. Thia nriety
• In a letter to the Honourable Rol>t. Buyle,
•ith some other cure1, attested by E. Foxcrol't,
M.A., dedicated to the author'• worthy and learned
friend Dr. Thos. Willis, professor of natural phi·
loaophy, at Oxford, by Henry Stubbe, physician,
at Stratford-upon-Avon. 4to. 1666. Oxford,
printed by H. Hall, printer to the Univenity.
, ,Google
llR: BAXTER'S
PREFACE.
TT seemeth hard, to unruly mind1, that God should
·Jr.eep intellectual souls so strange to the unseen
world or spirits, that we know so liltle or them;
:and that our knowledge or them is no more by the
'way of sense. But there is in it much of God's
arbitrary soYereign power, and much of his wis-
dom, and much of his justice, and also of his lov!!.
1. It pleased him to make variety of. creatures :
What harmony would there be without nriety T
were there nothing but unity, there would be no-
thing but God. And various creatures must haYe
1L various situation, reception, and operations; the
fishes must not dwell in our citie1, nor be ac-
·quainted with our aft'airs.
2. We here dwell in llesb, in bodies organized
for the soul's reception, perceptions, and ope-
rations; and the wisdom of God doth suitably
·dispose of his communications, and give ua that
measure of light which is agreeable to our state;
the sun must not shine on the infant in the womb,
nor must be there see our buildings, and tradings,
and business in the world.
3. We have liiht hert'1 that is proportionable to
our work and interest ; so much as is necessary to
our knowing of ourselves, and our God and
governour, and our duty, and all those hopes that
are our aecessary motives thereto. Men that will
but observe the operatinm of their soula, may
competently know what a soul or spirit ia; and
men that will but open their eyes, and consider-
·ately look about them, may as certainly know that
there ia a God as they ~an know that there i1 uiy
, ,Google
1>eing ; and men that cannot but diJl'erence lllOnl
good and evil, and that know the duty of children
1o parents, subjecta to rulers, and neighbours to
.11eigbbours, may know their duty to God, and that
the performance ·of it shall not be in •a.in ; and it'
men will not know all thia, "'bich they may know,
it ia just with God to' Jene them in their choaea
darkness, and not to know that •hicb further
might be known. It is a ditmal case to b:ive a soul
.
that will not know itself to be what it is, till utter
.mia.ry con•ioce him. .
4. And the God of love maketh advantage of our
not seeing the world of spirits for the exer~ise of
our higher intellectual faculties, by a life of faith;
and intuition (a nobler sort than our present eye-
aight) will be seaaonable, and soon enough "'hen
ripene11 bath made us ready for it. We shall not
need all the organical parts of the eye, which
-Galen admiringly describeth, for our glorious
aigbt. And to see deYils and other apirits ordi-
..Darily, would not be enough to bring our Atheists
to the saving knowled1te of God, without which
.all other knowledge is ?ain. ThPy that doubt of a
'God (the most perfect. eternal, infinite beios),
whilP they see the sun, and moon, and stars, the
sea and land, would not know him by seeing
..cTeated spirits.
As to the originals of this collection, it bad its
rise from my own, and other men'• need. When
.God first awakened me to think with preparing
aeriousnesa of my condition after.death, I had not •
any observed doubts of the ~eality ofipiriu, or the
immortality ofthe ,.,_z, or the truth of the Go~pel,
but all my doubts wei-e al:out my own renontion
and title to that blease<l life, But when God had
gi•en me peace of conscience, Satan assaulted .me
wi1 h those worse temptations ; yet, through God's
·grace, tht>y ne•er preniled againat my faith; nor
ditl he eYer raise in me th4 kalt clo1'U of tl11 """'
Cooglc
aniii Ill&. IA.ltt'B&'8· PR.llPAOlt.
1pirit1·uow inhabit, it will not be u dan~oualy
assaulted by them, but in triumph.: for I know
whom I have tru•ted; and into the·hands of him do
I commit my spirit, who hlltb cenquerred death
aod de•ils, and is. now the- glorified Lord or all,
and can use them. at his ·pleasure. And those'
angels that rejoice at the repentance of a Luarus,
and nnw are mini•tring spirits for his safe~y. will
be ready, in obedience to our Lord, to convey hie
10111 to Abraham's bosom; yea, to be that d&f
with Christ in Paradise.
He that chaineth up these de•ils, that they mo-
lelt us no more as their malice doth desire, will
inake our passage safe through all their eu•y and
defiled regions.
But seeing it is the free will of man that ,P•eth
the devils their hurting power, &nd they can do us
ao ht.rm, nor make us •in, without our Ol"n con•
sent or yielding, 0 ! with how careful, and con•
etant, and resolved watchfulness, should we live?
And how deser<e<lly may every pra)·erless, un•
goclly family and person, be left for a prey to this
devourer? An.I indeed he hath ah·eaJy hurt them
more by blinding and hardi!ning their hParts, than
a thousand flaunting a.pparitions oould of them•
ael•es have done,
And when excellent Zanch\• hath said so much
to prove, that it is by his v'ery contiguous sub•
stance tha.t the de•il doth work on soul and body,
how dreadful should temptations and sin be to us,
if we would not ha•e the v.ery suhstsnce of devilt
dwell in us 1 And why do any think it strange 10
~ead so much of possessions and dispossessions i11
the Gospel 1
Lord J'esus, let me.finish my co•use with joy,
and then receive my spirit,
RICHARD BAXTER.
J"l'JI 20, 1691..
~Google
THE
CERTAINTY
OP TB&
WORLD OF SPIRITS,
&c. &c.
.Of tM great and !Mghly Urn of there Hirtorin
ofSpirit.,
I HAVE written thia collection only as an addition
to sufficient ·proora of inTiaible powers or spirits,
wltich many in fall treatises ban already giYen to
the world; beoause, ho" con•incing soever those
•iacoursea l>e, multitudes, bred up in idleness and
aemuality, and thereby dro•ne<l- in Sadduceiam
and beadality, never aee those boob; nor "ill the
detril oonaent that they shall bare so much "it and
care of-their future state, as to make that diligent
enquiry after 1uch thinga u the importance of the
matter doth require ; nor "ill they read them, if
they li&'te them, nor belien tlt.e fullest evidence,
though they read it; pretending, that of persona
and thing• so long ago, and far off', they can hue
no assurance, not knowing what fall&ciea may in-
lerTene.
Therefore I have chosen many near to thA!m,
both for time uicl place; of wbicb, if the7 thipk
•
Google
-~ .
2 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OF
their 1oul1 worth IO much labour, they may eu-
quire to satisfaction.
Though I have taken many out of foreign moat
credible physicians, and sonie from other historians,
yet, that I may not transcribe too much, I desire
them that need yet fuller information, to read -
pecially Bodin and Remigius, two judges who
condemned multitudes of witches themselves, and
Paul Grillandus, and Sprangerus, and the Mallei
Maleficorum, and Zanchy de Angelis & Dmmon.
and Dan111Us, Joseph Glanvile, with Dr. More's
notes, eapecially the atory in the·weat of Scotland,
near like that most convincing one of the devil of
Mascon, and Dr. More of Atheism, and Mr. In•
crease Mather, and hi• son Mr. Cotton Mather, or
New England, their two books of witches, or
which, the latter hath most convincing evidence.
I confess, it is very difficult to expound the
causes of all mentioned in these histories : but
proved matters of fact must not be denied, but
improved u well as we can. And I confess very
many cheats of pretended possessions have been
discovered, which bath made eome weak, in•
judicious men think that all are such. But he
forfeiteth the benefit of his own eye-sight, who
thinks that none see, because some beggars COUD•
terfeit blindness.
Ofthe great Benefit•'°" may get by the right U••
of the111 Hittoriu:
1. We may leam to admire·that frame of divine
go•ernment, that hath creatures 80 various to rule
and order, and maketh one beautiful frame of alL
As toada and serpents on earth are not useles1,
nor devouring fiahes, birds, and beuta, 80 neithe%
ve d.evils nor damned souls, no, nor their ailll,
whk:h God will use, though be will not C3U8e.
JI. We may gather that in Heuen itself; there
"Cooglc
4PPARITIONS AND WITCHES. t
'!rill be au orderly economy, and di!'erence of de•
er- of superiority and of glory, when there is so
great ditrerence through all the world. All shall
not be equal to them that shall sit on twelYe
thrones, judging the twelYe tribes. There are
many mansions in that houte, enn to them that
be all with Christ.
8. We have great cause to be nry thankful to ·
God. that doth not let loose wicked spirits
against us, that they are not here our terror and
tormentors.
4. How' great a mercy ia it that we have a
Saviour that hatli power oYer them, and hath
redeemed us from their power, and Crom everlast·
ing damnation.
5. We may see that the angels or God are not
ueleaa to us, but their ministry is one or God's
means for our prese"ation, and we owe them love
aad thanks for all their loYe and aerrice. Aml
it ia not through pride or insensibility of this
bene&t, that we do not wonhip them, whom we
-not.
6. IC the devil• pot1es1ing and tormenting
men's bodiea be 10 heavy a plague, how much
wone is it to have him the master or their souls!
0 ! how carefully should we resist his tempta·
&ions t Every sin that we coqimlt, through love
so it, or by wilfulness or aloth, is worse to us, and
more pleasing to the deril, than to betormented so
long by him. He mist of bis aim at Job, when he
oould not by all hia autl'erlngs draw him to sin !
0 ! how much more miserable isa worldly, proud,
gluttonous, Dives, lord, knight, or gentleman, and
aeoaual youth distracted with vain mirth and lust,
than one bewitcht, or bodily only possest by
llerils; and how much should the most godly be
afraid or sin, and or temptations?
f. h ia a aenlible help to convince Atheists and
B 2
"Cooglc
'
4 HIS.l'.OIUCAL DISCOURSE OF
Infid~I•, and cenfinn the best belteHl'll -against an
\empt&tiona, to doubt of the life to.come, nd the
immortality of soul1, •nd the futme judgment and
retribution; and though it be oar eh&me 40 need
1ucb helps, it ·i• a mercy te biwe them. 'Ir a
Sadducee will SA'.", Ifone did C<11De frem the dead;
or I saw such things, I would believe, should ·not
our faith be put waverinir, that have tbeae uded
to .the greater gospel proofs.
, 8. It's matter of comfort to departing faithful
aouls, that these evil spirit• that are chained up
now, and not autl'ered to disturb ua, aball not
binder our passage .to glory, '1f we must p..a
through the air, inhabited .'by dMils and wiclce.t
eouls, angels will convey us, and Chriat receive
u, and it shall not be to our hurt or Joas.
9. It should always lceep the·aouls of the faith•
ful in ,joyful.gratitude, for the worlc of Mge&era.
tio11, grace,Justiticatiou, and salvation, which waa
our great deliveran~e from devils; and teach Iii
*6 live as the aaved of the Lord.
· l 0. It should warn all to take heed that they
be not belpen and servants to ·de.,iJa, in tempting
and destroying souls. 0 ! bow many do thi1
worlc that defie his name ? All that by wicked
example and scandal harden men in sin. They
t!.&t tempt people to pr.ide and luat, and tleahly
pleasurPS. They that draw them into the com-
pany of vain, lascivious, lustful, ryotoua, and on•
godly persons. They that madly oontradict Gnd'•
word, and cavil and argue against faith and boli·
ness. They that d~ride and mock at the-Obedience
of God's commands, and reproach the mott M-
ligioua by scornful nicknames. They that seduce
'them by false doctrine, and that draw them from
God's worship, and they that silence neeessatJ
faithful preachers, and they that dissuade mea
from hearing or regarding them. 0 I •bat aa
' "Cooglc
A.PPA.RITI01'S AND WITCHES. &
"'2DY hath Sataa for hia worlr of destroying soul"
He hath a greater and more dangerous army io
iaht apinst Chriat anti holiness, and men'a aal•
,auon. amoDg the great, and rich, and proud, and
careless voluptuous aiDners, than among witchea
and possessed bodies. He wins and undoes m11st
by pleasing them, .If he can get them to prefer
earth before beuen, and wealth and honour before
bolineu, and to be lovers of fleshly pleasures more
than .C God, ·and' keep them from any aerlou1
IDiniater, or means that would waken them, and
bring them to their wits, an4 keep them from
1erioua conside1atiou, and from thinking whither
they - going, and how all their carelt'l&oeas, ease,
1111d eiD will eod;. this is it that ao1weretb· hit
I01tl•murdering desires•.
11. But especially theae instances of Satan's
diligence and malice should teach minister& how to
prMCh, OD what aubjects, and iD what manner, and
how to coDverae peraooaliy with those of cbeir
charge. Shall the captaiDI in Christ's army aee
the devourer go away with the prey, and do little
for their rescue f I. igooraot, cold, jingling, cono
ientioua preachiDg, meet for them that are eo
peatly obli@'ed to militate.under e!hrist againat
&he destroyet", and for the everlasting aaving of
men'• 1oul11t The Lord heal and parthin our uu•
belief, and ernel -nt of pi$ty, and our aloth and
Jukewarmueu ; for it is a great aad aerious work
which we undertake. But of this I refer thote
that will read it to my " Reformed Paator."
0 Lord, give to die Christian world a greater
1111mber of wiae, humble, holy, experienced
teachers, and ·save them from those that hate or
llelieve not the doc:tr4zie, which for worldly eDda
tlley preach, and that aerve the de•il iD the name
•f Christ, aod calling themselves the Church, and
their conceits ill canoD or rule, do preach 1114
"Cooglc
8 HISTORIC.AL DISCOURSE OP·
rule for th-Ins, thMhonour, will, and wet.ltlr•
on pretence or the welfare &lld 1111ity of the church.
ud become the trumpeten of malignity, ~
cution, and 1ehism, 1Dd haYe DO& bowD the way
ef mercy.
TRiil& are in thi• City or London mmy penont
that profeaa their great unbelief, or doubt of the
life to come, the immortality of the aoul, and
therefore much more of the truth of the ppel,
and Christian faith, and 1Upematural revelation&.
But they say, that contd they be certain of apirits,
apparition•, witchcraft, and miraclff, it would do
more to conYince them than the uaertiona of the
Scriptures. But they take all auch report• to be
but the eft'ects of error, deceit. end euie credulity.
For the sake of such, I ban recited many credible
in1tances in thil book. and my 11 Saint•' Reat,"
and in my " Unreaaonablene1S of Infidelity," and
I shall here add some more. I doubt not but
abundance of report• of' auch mattert llan no
better caueea than are here mentioned, even the
mistake of the ignorant ; but that theie are true
&1 well u false reports of auch tbiaga, is put all
reuonable cauae of doubting.
I. I will begin with that moet con•incing ill*
atance, which yon may read.in a book called "The
Devil of Jilucon."
Above twenty yean ago, the now Earl Orery,
&hen Lord Brogbil, a peraon of well kllOWJl Wide~.
......_
"Cooglc
UPARmONS AND WJTCHU. 'T
1tandiug, and not much inclined to weak eredulity,
told me much of what i1 written in that book, and.
more; and 1aid that he waa familiar with Mr.
Perreaud, a reverend worthy Protestant minister,
iD whose house all was done, and bad hia ton for
hia 1ervant in his chamber many years, and from
lfr. Perreaud had the narrati're. Not long after,
Dr. Peter Moulin, Prebend of Canterbury, an4
en to the famous Peter Moulin, printed the book,
aa having it from his father, who had it of Hr.
Perreaud. And Mr. Robert Boyle, brother to the
Earl of Orery, a man famous for teaming, honeaty,
and charity, and far also from weak credulity, pre-
fi:reth au epi1tle to it, owning it aa Ulldoubtecl
truth, being acquainted with the author, Mt. Per•
reau<J, as his brother was. All thlH three worthy
persona (the Earl of Orery, Mr. Boyle, and Dr.
Peter .Moulin), througb. God'• mercy, are yet
living.
·J hear some rep0rt, that this hi1tory of Mucou
i1 deuyed by tome, that say they have 1pokeuwith
10me that hav,11 been at Maacon, aud knew nothing
ofit. And what wonder if such things that are
talkt of but a few day1, be forgotten after fifty or
aixty years. They that will not believe the
111rrative from such men as the famous Peter
Moulin, senior, and Dr. Peter Moulin, junior, that
printed it; and from the Earl of Orery, that told
me he waa familiar with Mr. Perreaud. aad had
hia ion many years his chamber-tenant; and. hia
brother, Mr. Robert Boyle, yet living, that hatil
attested it by a preface, may read all the history,
with many more of witchcraft, printed in French,
and published by Mr. Perreaud himself; and if
they cannot get it, they may go to my kinamav,
William Baxter, now schoolmaster at Newington,
where they may see it.
Could it be counterfeit. and never CODtradic:ted
ij) Alty or a~ty yean (I remember not just the
, ,Google
8 .msTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
year), that in a city, 10 many of both religions, for
10 many months together, might croud at a cer-
tain hour into the room, and hear a Toice an••-
inl( their questions, and telling them thinga far
oft', and to them unkno\Tll: and ditputing with a
Papist officer of the city, and the whit'ling him oft
about, and casting him on the ground, and •ending
him home distracted; I say, if this, and all the
.re~t there written, so attested, "8 not 1nllicient
eTidence, I kno• not what is.
. II. My next history shall be that of Lientenant
Colonel Bowen, which I will giH only in the
words of othera, as I received it; only telling you
what they are.
1. Mr. Samuel Jones, i1 a man ofknown learn-
ing, piety, and honesty, though asilenced miniale!',
now liring in Glamorganshire, by whose mediation
I had the other.
2. Mr. Bedwell was al10 a creilible, faithful
minister.
3. Mrs. Bowen herself either it, or lately was.
liring; a woman very much praised for true piety
and <:nurage, sister to Colonel Philip Jones, once
one of Cromwell's council.
4. Here is a letter also from Colonel Wroth
Rogers, late Gonrnour of Hereford, I think yet
living, and a credible person, though then not
willing the atory should be published; I suppose
his reuons are now over.
5. I desired, lately, a worthy minister of Swan-
1ey to enquire whether ""er since any thing hsd
abated the belief of the fact, who tells me (as
others do), that it is aa fully believed by thoae that
were·in the houae, and others, as eTer,
, ~Google
APPARITIONS AND ~ITCHES. t
&t1woJ Ltdten te Mr. Richard Baztw, tt. r,.
lalion to 011 Appormo11 m tM Hmue'()j Lint""'lll
Colotael BotMn, in Gla~ouliire, i• Wolu; ita
cu Y«11l6_,_,,
Colot&el Roger•, the Goiin110uP of Hereforrl, Av
Ldter : together toith cm etieloi«l .Relalioa o/
dil Apparilio>a, ij-c,
Dear Sir,
BT the enclosed you will ftnd 1omething of
the busillets you expected from me. h i1 certain
and .tr\le·I have .receiTed it from yery good handa,
Met-e there wu, but they did not think it con-
Tenient &o pllt itin paper. My req,uest is, that yoll
will not expeae it to publick Tiew; it may rather
do harm th1111 g.ood. ·I know that God hath given
you wisdom, and you will .make .good use of 1uch
tbinga. It may harden otbeN. Tbil, with tbe
enelo1ed, ~all at present from
.Your cordial friend
.and Servant,
JN. ROG&al.
IUre/orrl, A•B· 23. 16~.
The etieloud lUlatiati ofthe late mangeAppMili#e
;,. the C()tjnty of GlafMrlat&.
. IN the beginning of the late wu, a gentleman of
tliat county, being oppre1sed by the king's party,
took arms under the Earl of Essex, and by his
Talour obtained a good repute in the army, so that
in a abort time he got the commandof a lieutenant
JI,,
, ,Google
tO HISTORiCAL-DISCOlJRSE OF
eolonel. But as aooa as the heat or the war was
•bated, his ease and preferment led 'him to a care-
less and sensual life,insomuch that the godly com-
manders judged him unfit to continue in England,
and thereupon sent him to Ireland, where he grew
IO nin and notional, that he was cashiered the
army; and being then at liberty to ein without
restraint, he became an absolute Atheist, denying
Heuen or bell, God or devil (acknowledging only
a power, as the antlent heathens did fate), account•
ing temporal pleasures all his expected heaven;
IO that at last be became hateful, and hating all ·
civil society, and his nearest relations. ·
About December last, he being In Ireland, and
Jais wife (a godly gentlewoman, of a good family.
8Dd concluded, by all the godly people that knew
lier, to be one of the most sincere and upright
Christians in those parts, at being for many years
under great aftlictions, and always bearing them
with Christian-like patience) living in this house
in Glamorgan, was very much troubled one night
with'a great noise, much like the sound of a whirl-
wind, and a violent beating of the doors or walls,
as if the whole house were falling to pieces : and
being in her chamber, with most of her family,
after praying to the Lord (accou11ting it sinful in-
credulity to yield t_
o fear), she went to bed; and
aucldenly after, there appeared unto her something
like her husband, and asked her whether be should
oome to bed. She, eitting up, and praying to the
L<>rd, told him he was not her husband, iind that
he should not. He urged more earnestly:-
.. What! not the husband of thy bosom? What !
not the husband of thy bosom?" Yet had .n<>
power to hurt her, And she, together with some
godly people, spent that night in prayer, being
Hry often interrupted by this apparition.
The next night, Mr. Miles (a godly minister), ·
with four other godly men, came to watch and
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. u·
pray in the hou1e for that night, and so eontinuelJ
ID prayer, and other duties of religion, without &DJ
interruption or noise at all that night. But the
night following, the gentlewoman, with several
other godly women, being in the house, the noise
of whirlwind began again, with more violence tbau
Cornutrly, and the apparition walked in the cham-
ber, ha,.ing an imutferable atench, like that of a
putri6ed carcass, tilling the room with a thick
smoak, smelling like sulphur, darkening the light
of the fire and candle, but not quite extinguishing
it ; sometimes going down the stain, and coming
up again with a fearful noise, disturbing them at
their prayers, one while with the sound of worda
which they could not discern, other while striking
them so that the next morning their faces were
black with the smoak, and their bodiea 1wollen
•ith bruises.
Thereupon they left the house, lest they should
tempt the Lord by their oTer-bold staying in aucb
danger, nnd aent thia Atheist the sad new1 of this
apparition; who coming to England about May
last, expreS1ed more love and and respect to hi1
wif• than formerly; yet telling her, that be could
not believe her relation of what she bad seen, as
huing not a power to belien any thing but what
himself saw; and yet would not hitherto go to
hi1 house to make trial, but probably will e'er long,
{or that he is naturallJ of an .exceeding rub and
deaperate spirit•
.Avg111t, 1656.
, ,Google
U HISTORlCA:L DISCOURSE OP
Mr. Samsel J<YM1'1 Ldtef"i• relation to Lieutena.at
Colonel Bowen; together with an inclo1ed Lettn
from Mr. Maur. Bedwell on the 1ame 1ubject.
Worthy and much Honoured,.
You may be pleased to remember, that
when I waited upon you at the sherift''s house, ia
Sallop, in August laat, amongst your other en•
quiries, touching the state of that poor country'
where the Lord bath cast my lot for the present,
you desired me then to impart what I bad received
by relation, concerning the apparitions in one CoL
Bowen'• house, and. upon my return, to procure
you some further intelli,ence touctliing that tre·
mendous providence. Whether it be by time, or
familiarity with the noise hereof, or rather, the
(no less to be admired) blockishness of the spirits
or men, that the horror of that terrible dispenaation
be alt..y'd. I know not, but aurely the thing itselr
was very atupendoua, and the remembrance of it
carries much amazement with it still, to them
that hne any thing of tenderness or understanding
left them. By the enclosed, from an honest and
godly hand, not far from the stage where these
thingt were acted, you may understand the sub-
stance of that matter, the party (being a minister
of the gospel) perfectly knew Colonel Bowen, and
hath often coDYened · wiLh him, both before and
since his house was haunted. If you are pleased
te command any further SAtisfaction herein, I shall
take a journey myself into the place, and endea.-
vour to gratille any further particular that you de-
sire the knowledge of. If any publick use be
made hereof, you may conceal my friend's name
and mine own, lest any oft'ence &hould be taken by
'°me of the parties relationa in parliament and
,, Google
.APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 13
eounci!.• or the receipt or this paper I desire to
hear with all convenient speed. At the throne of
grace Toucbaafe to remember your weak and
Wretched brother, who yet desires to be round in
the number or thorn that are-
Sir,
Youn, in the surest Bonds,
CoedrM<m,
Nov. 28, 16.56.
to Hono11r and Serve you,
S.uwu. 1e1ua.
Mr. Maur, JJedvxilh inc1o1'd ultff,
Dear Sir,
GLA.D I am ofyour tafe return, and gladder
1hould I be to be instumental, according to my
weak capacity, of nayling ¥Ou to these parts. I
hope, if my desires are agreeahle to the Lord, yo..
will meet with some directing providence& from
aim, which will answer all objections,
As to Col. Bowen's house, I can gi"9 you some
brief partic11lan, whieh you may credit, 88 coming
from such who wrre not so foolish aa to be de-
luded, nor so dishonest 88 t(/ report an untruth.
What I ahall write, if need were, would be made
good both by ear and eye-witnes~es. The gentle-
1Dan, Col. Bowen, whose house is called Lanellin,
in Goweralarid, formerly was famoua for profession
• The reasons why forbearing names was de-
tired being no'" over (y•t Mr. S. Jones, still
living), I think myself diaobliged &S to tbat re•
1uaint.-R. B.
'" ~Google
14 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OF
oC religion, but this day is the aaddest man in,bia.
principlet I know liviag; To me, in particular, be
has denyed the being of the Spirit of the Lord &
his argument thus-Either 'tis something or no-
thing; if something, show me, tell me what it is,.
&c., and I believe he gives as little credit to other
spirits u the Sadducees. At his house, afore-
mentioned, he being then in Ireland, making pro-
vision for removing thither, these things happened.
About December lut, bis wife being in bed, a
gracious, understanding woman, and one whom
little things will not affright; one in the likeness
' of her husband, and just in bis posture, pre-
' sented himself to her bed-side, proffering to come
I to bed to her, which she reCusing, be gave this
" answer, " What I recuse the husband of thy
bosom ;" and aCter aome time, she alledging Chri5t
was her husband, it disappeared. Strange miser•
able howling& and cries were heard about the
house, his tread, his posture, sighing, bumming,
were frequently lieard in the parlour; in the day•
time often the shadow of one walking would
appear upon the wall. One night was very re-
markable, and bad not the Lord stood by the poor
gentlewoman and her two maids, that night they
had heen undone; as she was going to bed, she
perceived by the impression on the bed, as iC some
body had been lying there, and, opening the bed,
she smelt the smell of a carcase somewhile dead; ,
and being in bed (Cor the gentlewoman was some-
what courageous), upon the tester, which was of
cloth, she perceived something rolling from side to
side, and by and by, being forc'd out of her bed,
she had not time to dress herselC, such cries and
, other things almost amazing her, but she (hardly
, any of her cloths being on), with her two maids,
got upon their knl'es by the bedaide to seek the
Lord; but, extreamly assaulted, oftentimes ahe
would, by somewhat which felt like a dog nodes
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 111
her knees, be lifted a foot or more high from the
ground. Some were beard to talk on the other
side of the bed, which one of the maids harkening
to, she bad a blow upon the back. Divers assaults
would be made by fits ; it would come wit'h a cold
breath of wind, the candles bum blew, and almost
oat; horrible screekings, yellings, and roarings,
within and without the house sad smells of brim-
atone and powder, and this continued from some
nine at night to some three the next morning, so
~bat the poor gentlewoman and l)er se"ants were
in a sad case the next morning, smelling of brim-
atone and powder, and, as I ·remember, black with
it, but the Lord was good, Fires have been seen
upon the house and in the fields; his voice hath
been heard luring his haukes, a game he delight•
in, as also the bills of the hauks. These are the
chief things which I dare recommend upoB credit,
and I could wish, that they who question the ex-
iatency of spirits bad been but one night at Lan-
nelin, to receive satisfaction to their objections.
This continued so violent, that the gentlewoman
was fain to withdraw to her mother's house; but
her husband coming oTer about some four months
ainee, his confidence did not serve him to lodge at
Lannelin, although we have beard nothing of
trouble to the house since his coming over. Sir,
the dispensation, as it was exceeding terrible, w
yery remarkable, and what the voice of God might
be in such a thing 'tis not knuwn clearly yet. He
is as Atheistical as eTer, all his religion, if I may
call it so, being comprised i,a the acknowledging a
power, which we, as he saith, may call God, and
wtiting for some infallible miraculous business to
Terifie to him all the rest we own as our religion.
Sure, sir, if ever a blasphemer was unworthy to
live, this is the man; and certainly his sin will
find him out; he is now gone to Ireland. Let
thete things be divulged only as to the mauer,
"Cooglc
lti HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
ll'ithout uamet. Auure the gentleman, your
friend, they are very truths: 1 hue somewhat
more than ordinary for what l say. At the int
we concluded the wretch had been dead, but 'twas
otherwise, and therefore the more remarkable.
Your aff'ectionate brother,
to love and aerve }'OU,
SIDOfll!J, llAuJL, lb.nw&u..
Octob. 16, 1656.
III. Colonel 1obn Briclges WU f!OYelllOUr or
Warwick Cutle almost all the tilne of the wva.
Anerward1 be lived with .us near Kederminster,
being patron or the ohurch, a :}uatice of peace, a
parliament man; .and after lived in Ireland, wbe,.
Ji• surprized{with-otbe~) Dublin Cutle, and Sir
Hardresa Waller for the King, bd'ore be wu
celled home. .He was.an understanding, prudent
man, of sound judgment in nligion, Just and ho-
nest, and credillle.
He and bis pjoua wife have oft told me u fol-
lowetb :-
They Connerly lived in Edson Hall, near Alca-
ter, where Warwickshire andWorcestenhire joyus,
a house famed 'to be haunted : and being used to
go into a parlour alone for meditation, prayer, and
to play on bis lute, once as he went in at the
• 1 portal be •as 1topt ·and held by somewhat invisi-
ble, tilJ be resolved, under God's pl'Otection, to
rush through it, and go on. ·
Another time, in·• clear moon-shine nigbt,.their
mastift' doll' made such a bowling u raiaed up the
houae : be looked out at the wiudow, and beyolld
a pale that compaased the court there 1tood 1ome-
- thin11: like a headless man, but taller, He Jong
gaed on it, and, trusting God, returned to bed;
and presently the hall door (fast lockt and barr'd)
uaing to make a great noiae in the opening, buiug
Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. If
auch iron, seemed to them all to open M it uaed,
snd somewhat came in, and gM"e three gnat alams,
u with a atatf, upon the hall table-, and departed,
They went chiwn to aee, and found the door locks,
and fast as th..y left it. . Mr. Sommerfield, who
aince lived in the same houe, taid that be ea•
aotbing there.
JV. A pioua, credible woman, yet liYing in
London, lately told me oftimes, being 1nmetime
under temptation by some discontent of mind, one
day, u 1he pa&Hd through the room at mid0 da1,
the devil atood before her in the shape of a bi&
black man, and pointed to the top of the door,
tempting her there to hang her aelf, and 10 atood
aear a quarter of an hour, and then nniahed away.
Which waa so·far from dismaying her, that it much
confirmed her againat uobPlief, and her tempt..
tions. Any one that will go to her here in Lon•
don may hear her credible an4 conlldent report
of it.
V. The elder Couotea1 of Donagal, a lady,
pious, diacreet, and credible, told me, that one oC
her husband's tenant• (near Belfast or Carickfer•
gua, where be wu Lord) agreed wi1h him for to
put bis son'• life with his own in a renewed lease
of a farm; and he paid part of the money, and
dved before the leue wa• made &1.1d sealed. Hia
wife marryed another man, and paid thereat of tile
money out of her aecond huaband'a ·purse, and
tlierefnre put in hia son's life, in ate•d of her son
bv the former husband, into the lease, The Earl
ofDonagal troing into England, and being then in the
wat, a ..."ant of his in lrl'laod, his porter, a 11out
lu•ty mao, wu haunted with the apparition of the
woman'• 6rat husband, telling him that he must go
to hi• wife, an1l tell her that 1he 1hould have no
"Cooglc
IS HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
r•t till hl1 10n'• life 11'ere put in the altered leue.
Be ukt why be spake to him, and what be bad to
clo to mrddle in it t It answered him, Thou art
• man fit for it, and thou shalt haYe no rest till
thou do it. The man delayed, and Wat still
haunted with this apparition. He went to the
minister of the town, and told him of it, who
counselled him to tell the woman. She told him,
that ahe took it to b• just that her husband, that
paid most of the money, should baYe the benefit ol
the lease ; and, perhaps not believing the m1111e
delayed. Thia apparition came to the porteragain,
and uid, That she may believe thee, go tell her of
such and such discourse and actions that were be-
tween her and me in 1ecret, which none else
knoweth of. The man went and told her all that
he waa bid. She confessed that it wu all true
and 1ecret between them, but atill delayed, till
some trouble (I remember not what) molested her
self. In abort, the po1·ter and ahe ·had no reM
till she had drawn a new lease, with the name ol
the first husband's son, and sent it into England
to the Earl of Donagal, who aealed It, and 111
•ltered accordingly.
VI. An ancient, understanding, pious, and e-
dible man, of Ilchester in Somersetahire, is now in
London, who the lut week told me, that he wu
heretofore in melancholy doubts and trouble of
mind, and in that condition had diven sensible
molestation• by the de•il, as he Jay awake in bia
bed; bis feet have bin lifted higher than his head.
1 told him, that a melancholy fancy might make
him think '°• He added to the confident usertion
of it, that he hath in the open day time, as be
hath gone about hi1 hooee, had a blow atruck on
bia face, as bard and as plain as any man's hand
~uld '1trike; end once ao hard, that it left the
, ,Google
.tPPARITIONS AND WITCHBS. lt
place black and blew (as they call it) to the sirhC
of all, in the same manner as uay otller would ha••
4ona (with much more.)
VII. The story of the haunting of Hr. Hom•
pesson'a bouae in Wiltshire is famous, and
printed in part by Mr.JoaephGlanvil. Mr. Hom•
peuon ia yet liYing, no melancboly nor conceited
Dl&D· The truth not doubted of by his neigh·
boun within thia month, I spake with one of them,
en attorney, who said, that the noises heard, the
:wiaible moving about of the bovds before thair
laces, and auch like, were all undoubtedly true;
ud the thing unquestioned by Mr. Hompe88oD
(who to his great coat and trouble wu long mo-
lested by it) and his neighbours, and those that
purposely went thither to aee it. Notwithatand·
mg that, when some unbelieHra went from Lon-
.don to be satisfied, nothing was done when tbey
were there. For as God oweth not such remedi..
to unbelievers, so Satan hath no desire to cure
.~m; and, it is likely, doth more in apparition•
by divine conatraint, than he ia willing to do ; be-
cause he is most 1ucceasful when he is least known.
Any one that doubts of the truth of this story may
yet have full satiauction, the witue88 being alin.
But this partly belongeth to the instances of
witchcrafts, being credibly supposed to be done
.by witchcraft of a drummer, as you may see de-
ecribed in the printed story. I knew Joseph
Glanvile to be far enough from fanatick credulity,
who himself saw much of it, and publiaht it.
VJIL In February, 1646, falling into great de-
bility by bleeding, at the Lady Cook's house at
ldilbourue in Darby-shire, I removed to Mr. Noel's
house at Kirkby Malory in Leicestershire, where I
lay weak three weeb in March, in which time the
neighbour• went to aee a bouae in Luuerworth1
"Cooglc
....
19 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE or
reported to be haunted. Hultitudet flockt to ...
it, and affirmed, that at a certain hour of the day
•tones were thrown at those that were present,
which hit them, out hurt them not; and that
what enr time any one would whistle it was an..
awered by a whistle in the room, and no search
could diaeover any fraud. What became oC it after
I heard not, but h continued believed commonly
by the hearers those three weelle that I staid iii
\bat country'.
IX. The banging of a great nomber of witch•
in Sutrolk tmd Esses, br the- diaco•ery of one
Hopkins, in 1645 and 1646, ia famously known.
Mr. Calamy went along with the jud~es in the
eircuit to hear their confe111ione, and see that there
were n{) f1au<I or wron~ done them. I apake witlt
D1any underatanding, pious, and credible pen0119t
ti.at lived in the countries, and aome that went to
them to the prisons, and heard their asd confes-
aioas. Among the rest, an old Reading panon,
aamed Lowis, not far from Framlingham, w• one
that was hanged, who confes&ed that he had two
imps, and that one of them was always putlinlJ
him on doing mischief; and (be being near the
aea) as he saw a ship under sail, it moved him ta
eend him to sink the ship, ancLhe conaented, an4
eaw the ship aink before him. One penitent WO•
man eonfe1Sed, that her mothe-r tying sick, and she
looking to her, somewhat like a mole ran in to the
bed to her, which ehe being startled at, her mother
bid her not fear it, but gave it her, saying, Keep
tbie in a pot by the fire, &c. and thou shalt neYer
want. She did as she waa bid. Shortly after, a
poor boy (seemingly) came in, and askc lene ta
ait and warm \lim by the fire ; and when be was
gone, she found money under the stool; and aftef\o
wards oft did so again, and at last laid hc>ld of bet
1111d clrew blood of her 1 met ahe made no o~
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCRE'S. 21
eo111pact with the devil, but that her imp• sucked
lier blood. A.btandance of 1ad confesrions were
made ·by them, lty which some teltified, that there
are certain punishments that they were to underge
it tbey did -not some bun as was ·appointed them.
X. ·I ·will 1Wfl insert a late fact, not far oft",
•hich when a pious, credible person related to me,
I desired him to •end me the true narrati•e in
Yriting when he came home, and fully enquired
iato the matter. And be ·&ent me thia nvratne
M1'!' .following:-
.At Brightling in Sussex.
A.1 touching the relation of the BrightHng story.
•hich io in the substance undoubtedly true, 'how-
_.er some circumst11noes of it mity vary, be pleased
io ·talle the following account 1-
0n .Munday was thl'ee ·weeks, at or near the
house of Joseph ·Cruttenden, of Brightling, an old
w •msn about noon came to a servant girl of the
pid Cruttenden's, tells her sad calamities were
eoming upon her maater and dame ; their ·house
should be fired, ·and omanv other troubles befal
&hem: but tells thi• girl yiihal, that if shP spake
of what she had told her, the devil would tear her
to pieces, ·otherwise 1he need not fear, for no hurt
1hould come to her. The same night, ai the ·man
and woman lay in bed, dirt and dust, &c. was
thrown at them, ·but they could not tell whence it
oame. They rise and pray, during·which that dis-
turbance ceases; some say they ·wt>m to bed again,
bat finding the same trouble they ate forced to
rile. Tueeday, about noon, dust, dirt, and seYeral
things are thrown at them again ; before night, a
part of on11 end of their houae fired ; they rake it
flnro, it Auhee eOmewha& like gunpow;dtr; as they
"Cooglc
!J HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OF
ltop'd it there, it began in another place, and
thence to another, till the whole house was burat
dowa. Some aay some thiag like a black bull W8I
s,ea tumbling about; the certaiaty of that I aver
not. The house, tho' it burnt down to the grouad,
it !lamed not. The night waa spent in carryiag
goods, or one thing or other, from oae place ·-.
another, they, I thialc, remaiaing mostly without
doon. Tbunday, Col. Busbridge (whose boaae
the former was), being acquainted with the man'•
aad accident, bid them go into another of bis
houses in the parish,, whither, when the goods
were brought, such like disturbances were there
also ; the house fi.retb, endeavoun are made by
many to quench it, but in vain, till the goods are
thro:wn out, when it ceased with little or no help.
Ia this condition none durst let them into ijieiJ
doors ; they abide under a but ; the goods are
throwa upside down ; peuter dishes, knives, brick•
brats strike them, but hurt them. not. :M:r. Ben-
net and Mr. Bradshaw, ministers, came to pray
with them, when a knife glanced by the breast of
Mr. Bennet, a bowl or dish tbrowa at his baclr,
but while at prayera quiet : they were without
doon, there being very many preseat, a wooden
tut came !lying out of the air, by many, and catrie ·
and struck the man ; as likewise a hone-shoe,
1'hich was by some laid away, and it was observ'd
of its own accord to rise again and 11.y to the man,
and strook him ia the midst of a huadred people.
Upon strict examination, the man confesaetb that
be had been a thief, and did it under the colour of
religion. Sabbath-day the girl told her dame the
former story of the womaa's discourse; she is seat
for, and enmined before Captain Collins, Mr. Bua•
bridge, and she is searched and watched 24 Jioars :
the girl saith she ia like the woman, but I think
will not swear it is the same. This woman Wiii
fo{merly auapected to be a witch, bad to MaidatoDt
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 23'
about it, but got away, and hath lived about Buri.
W&.\t some time since: her name I know not.
Tuesday four ministers kept a fast, Mr. Bennet,
Weller, Bradshaw, and Golden; since, I hear not
of any trouble. 'Tia said they are in a barn or
ale-house; while they lay without doors, the wo-
man sending some meal to a neighbours to make
bread, they could not make it up into loaves, but
it was like butter, and so they put it into the
oven, but it woul& not bake, but came out as it
went in. Thia relatiQn came from Mr. Colline.
who was au eye-witne&a of much of it.
XI. About twenty years past, when I was in the
Lord Broghill's (now Earl of Orery's) lodgings in
London, one night he brought me the report that
one of Cromwell's soldiers being on his watch,
near the Chappel of St. James'a House, something
came towards him in an alfrightening ehape, and
he calling out, Stand, stand, or I will ahoot you,
at last diachar~ng, it ran upon him, and threw
bim over the way far oft"; and that it had been
that day examined, and affirmed confidently ; and
what became of the report of it afterward I know
aot, save that it was said to happen oft. But on
this occasion the Earl of Orery (yet living) told
me as followeth, That Colonel Venables (then go-
ing for Hispaniola with the soldiers that were there
repulsed, and took Jamaica) had a soldier in hit
army that came out of Ireland, and was under
Colonel Hill, who waa then itt London, and would
atteat thia following, t1iz. That this soldier looked
pale and sad, and pined, and the cause was un··
bown : at laat he came to Colonel Hill with his
oonfetaion, that he had bin a servant in England
(as I remember, to one that canied atockins and
111cb ware about to sell), and, for his money, he
bad murdered his master, and buried him in such
aplace: aud llying into lrelaud, listed hilllaeli bis
"Cooglc
M BlSTORK'AL DISCOUIUIE OP
1ou14ier; and that of a Ieng rime, when tTer be
Jay alone, somewhat like a headlesa man stood by
his bed, saying to him [Wilt tlaov yd coafeu t}
And in this cue .of fear he had continued, tilt
lately it appeared to him when be had a bed-fellow.
(whic"b it never did before), and eaid aa befoM
l W"~ t1wu yet confur t] and now seeing no hoJl!l
of longer concealing it, be confened ~ and as I
remember, his going to Hispaniolawas his punish-
ment, instead of death, where ·vengeance followed
him. This he olfered then to bring Colonel Hill
to me to attest. Since the writing or thia, the
Earl of Orery is dead.
XII. Simon Jones, a strong and healthful man
or Kederminster (no way inclined to melancholy,
or any fancies), hath oft told me, that being a
aouldier for the· king in the war against the parlia.-
ment, in a clear moon-shine night, as he stood
aentinel in the'ColledgeGreen at Worcester, aome-
thing like a headless bear appeared to him, md 80
alfrighted him, that he laid doW'D bis ..rma soon
after, and returned home to his trade, and while l
was there afterward, which was fourteen year&,
lived honestly, religioualy, and witbout blame.
and I think is yet living, which mindeth toe el
that which followeth, ·though to me not known.
XIII. When I was young, moat ·credible and
teligioua persons born in Wilden-Hall near Wol-
ver-hampton in Stalford-shire, oft told me (dwell-
ing with me in the ~•me houae) that one Richard
White, a amith of Wilden•Hall, was a prophane,
atheistical man, and believing that there waa DO
devils, in bis cups would wish he could once SM
the devil, if there were such a thing; and tha&
1uddenly he changed his life, and became a pro-
fesaor ~f zeal, and atrictnesa in religion, and told
them, that in a clear moon-ahine night the deril
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. tJ
1o tbe shape. of a great ugly man stood by bis bed·
aide, opening the curtains, and looking him in tbe
face, and at last took up the blanket, and sometime
smiled on him, and then was more ugly; and after
a while (in which be lay in great terror) the appa·
mion nnisbed, .and be waa affrighted into the
aforesaid change of life, as Bruno, the founder of
the Order of Cartbuaian Fryers, is said to be.
XIV. There la now in London an understand-
ing, aober, pious man, oft one of my bearers, who
hath an elder brother, a gentleman or considerable
rank, who haYing formerly seemed pioua, of late
yeara doth oft fall into the 1in of drunkenness.
He oft lodgetb long together here, in this bia bro-
dier'a house. And whenever he is drunken, and
hath alept himself sober, something knocks at bia
bed'• head, as if one knock'd on a wainscot; when
they remoYe bia bed, it followeth him. Besides
Jowd noisea on other parts where be is, that all the
house beareth. They h&Ye oft watcb'd, and kept
Jtia handa, !eat be abould do it himself. His bro.
tber hath oft told it me, and brought bis wife (a
discreet woman) to att•t it ; who averreth more-
OYer, that aa she watched him, ahe hath seen his
abooea under the bed taken up, and nothing visible
touch the·m. They brou11ht to me the man him•
self, and when we ask him bow be dare so sin
again, after such a warning, be bath no excuse.
But being persona of quality, for aome apecial rea-
son of worldly interest, I must not name him.
T11'o things are remarkable in this in1tance :-
) • What a powerful thing temptation and ftesbly
eoncupiscence is, and what a hardned heart 1in
bringa men to. IC one rose from the dead, to
warn such sinnen, it would not of itself persuade
tltem.
2. It J!Otetb me to think what kind ofapirit this
ii, that hath auch a care of thia man'• aoul (whid,
c
Cooglc
'26 .HISTORICAL DISCOURSE o:r
maketh me hope he will recoftr). Do IJOo4
1pirita dwell 10 near us ! or are they aent Oil auh
aies11gea f or is it his guardian anj!el f or ii lt the
llOUI of 10111e d-1 friend that auifereth, ud nt,
retaining Joye to him, u Dives to hie b111thiea,
'W&11ld have him saved! God yet keepeth such
thiu111 from ua in the dark.
XV. There is now in London a yoath, the -
or a very godll conforming miaiater), who readiiag
a book of that called conjuratioa, ooming to the
words and actions which the book aaid would
cause the devil to appear, was pn11911tly '"9r}' de-
-eirous to try, and desirous that the apparition
·might be ac:oordingly. He came to me in terrour,
hning before opened his cue to a parish minis•
ter, and affirmed to me, that the devil bath ap-
peared to him, and soll.ieited him with a kniftt_to
cut hi1 tbrotit, and told him he muat do it 1udde11-
·Jy, for be would stay no longer. I told him how
safe be was, if he truly repeated, and bened par·
don through Christ, and would resolvedly renew
hi1 baptismal covenant, and renounce the devil,
and live u truly devoted to God and our Re-
deemer. And t have heard from aim no more,
but muat not name him.
XVI. Thi1 following I had from one of unq-
tionable credit :-
Amongst other things, I called to mind a atory
aent me in a letter from Cambridge, that week it
wa1 done, in 1661 or 1662. Mr. Cooper bearing
it, told it aa a great truth; he heard Mr. Franklin,
a minister of Wood·Rising, in this county, twelve
mil• from this cily, father to the child, tell it to
Sir Philip Woodhouse. Mr. Franklin wu then
minister of a town in the hie of Ely, and upon
this account, which I shall tell. you, remond 40
Wood-Rising, in thia county.
, ,Google
:&.PPARITIO'NS AND WITCHES. f7
.,, This man bad a child, to •hich a spirit oflen
·appeared at bit father's houae, and grew 10 bold
~d free, as Yery ordinarily to come in whilst
oompany was in the house, and Franklin in the
·room, and 1it down by the boy. At due ye&n,
·about the year 1661 or 1662, he wu bound an
apprentice to abarber in Cambridge (or at least
with him u a probationer). One night the spirit
appeared to him in the u•ual habit of a gentle-
.woman, and •ould h&Ye persuaded him to go
.home again, uking him what be did there, &c.
The boy, after tome treaty, rtplied, He ll'ould no&
go. Upon which, he receind a great blow on the
. ear, and grew Yery ill, but rose. Being t.nd con-
. tinuiag ill, bit muter presently honeth, and rides
to acquaint hi1 father. In the forenoon 0£ that
day, ihe boy sitting by the kitchin tire, his mil-
. tr..e being by, 1uddenly cries out, 0 miatre11I
. look ! there'a the gentlewoman. The woman tuma
to look, aeea nothing ; but while her bead wu
. tumed, hear1 a aoiae u of a great bo:r. on the ear;
.tu?lll, 1ees the boy beading down his neck, and be
. preHntly died. About tile nme hour, IO near u
t~y could guess, the master wu sitting at dinner
in the Iale of Ely, with bis father: the appearance
of a gentlewoman comea in, looking angrily, taking
a turn or two, dinppeared.
Thus I remember the story came, in three claya
after it wu done, to me.
Mr. Cooper thi1 aftemoon eon6nm it, u beard
by him from Mr. Fr1nklin hi1D1elf: adding, the
poor man wu so al!'ected, that he aee9led almost
1tupid.
, ,Google
'18 HISTORJOAL DISCOURSE OP
A tn&e Relatioft froM Ha,.,,tota, i• tlw Co.aly fl
~. coouniing Witchcraft.
Kitigitolt "P°" Thallll!I, Sept. 6, J681.
About nine or ten years 1ince, in the house of
llr1. Hieron, or Honyton, widow, there happened
tais 1traage instance or witchcre.l\ following -
Thia widow Hieron, a person or good quality,
kept a mercer'a shop, and, I think, -doth to this
day, in Honytoa. She hath a maid-senant, Eli•
sabeth Brooker by 'Dame, who told small wares in
a atall before her mietr-'a door, On Saturday,
whicb waa their 111arket day, a -certain woman of
Honyton town came to the aaid Elisabeth Brooker
(aellio' wares at the stall aforesaid) end asked her
for a pin. The maid readily gave her a pin Crom
her aleeTe ; but this pin did not aatisfie, 1he
would baYe a pin or a bigger sort, out or a paper
which hung up "to sell. The maicl told her thoae
pins were not her'a to give, she must ask her mi..
tresa, and when 1he bad orden she would give ber
her desire. The woman asked her again aocl
9g&in, and Elisabeth did aa often deny. The
woman weot sway in a gnat fume and ra,e, and
told the maid ahe should hear farther from her;
Ilia would ere long wish the bad given her the pin
she desired ; with many threatening 1peeches,
wbich the maid took little notice of (though the
woman wu or an ill report). Now, the ne:u day
being the Lord's day, while her miltl'ftl and the
family were at dinner, and Elisabeth Brooker
waiting at the table, on a sudden the maid gave a
very great cry, and told them she had a pin thrust
into her thigh, which few or the ramily did be-
lieve, knowing there wu no penon in the room
beside her self and the family, who all aate at
meat, she only 1tandiog to attend them. · Ber
11"1istre11 arose Crom table, and Mr. Samuel Bieron'a
wire, who wu then living. She wu Corced to go
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 1!1
to bed ; they sent for a midwife of the town, who
had tkill in sores and wounds : ahe saw there had
Ileen some small liurt in the akin, but the pin wu
Ollt or sight; and feeling so as to understand what
ii waa, or exactly where, the midwife applied her
rare plaiater of Venice turpentine all that night,
aod many other things the next day, but the pain
waa still the same. On the Tuesday they adyised
with Mr. Salter, a skilful apothecary in the town,
who advised them well, whose counsel they fol-
lowed, but all in nin. On Wednesday, the same
week, they, with great trouble and pain, brought·
her to Exeter, and lodged her at Mr. John Hop-
pin's, a worthy minister of the Gospel, who liviia
in Gaudies-Lane. They called me to her, to ad•
•iae what to do to ease her pain. I designed a
auppurative cataplaem, but nothing would .atisfie
lhe maid but cutting of it out, which was some.
wha\ dillicult, because it was hard to find t'!le
place exactly where to make the incision ; but the
courage of the patient did greatly promote the
opention. I made a large incision, according t9
the length of the muscles ; and though I could find
DO sign of the pin Upon the first incision, yet by
putting my incision knife obliquely, I Celt the pin.
and brought it out, near an inch within the cutis ;
and upon that there was great ease, and in fifteen
daya the sore wu whole. This operation wu per-
formed in the presence of Mrs. Hoppin, Mrs. Gold,
)Ira. Ford, and many worthy persons of good re•
putatiou. And I dare presume, if this paper b,
sent to Honyton, to Mr. Samuel Hieron, minister
of the Gospel, be will have it sufficiently attested
oonceming the first part of the story, l\nd none can
tell the second part better than my self, who per-
formed the operation. And the truth of that I
give under my band this 6th day of September,
Alwo J)om. 1681, ANTHONY SMITS,
Ob7rurgu1, Kipsatoa.
"Cooglc
30 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
Mr. C1aarle1 Hatt'1 Letter, CORCmUftB !1ft Ho-
blling haunkll al Kinto11, i11 Wor-ter.Utt, ia
the year 1667.
Worthy Sir,
According to your desire, and my promise
'lrhen I was with you about a fortnig.ht since, with
Mrs, Wilson, concerning a man'• house in Kinton
(aix miles from Worcester) being sorely troubled
about thP. latter end of the year 1667, to tbe beet
of my remembrance, t>iz.
I li•ing at Beoiogton, near Auster, iii Wanrick·
t'hire, workmen come from Kinton acquainted me
or an house sorely haunted, naming the person
to me, which I hue now forgot. I being desiroas
to 1ee or hear such things, went to the said houlf',
but ·finding only a maid there a spinning, I a•ked
her for her muter, She told me the spirit (to the
beet or my remembrance she called it so) had
boxed him about the ears, as he sate by the fire.
OYer against her; upon which he cried out, and
11'ent away to a 1on'1 of his in the said town, a
little before I camp, I coming to the said man,
desired him to come home. He seemed unwilling,
telling me how he was abused by it, and that m
the night it would often pull him out of the bed,
and did 10 torment him, that he was a weary or
hi1 life. But getting him home, he .ate him down
about the same place, near the fire, and I sate
over against him, diocoursing bow he was troubled.
He told me senra\ bad been with him, as the
minister of the. place, to my best remembrance.
They bid him pray: hut be found no relief. I
told him I knew no other way than by 1eel<ing to
the Lord, and n&t to 1peak slightly of prayer. He
~Id me I mi11ht hear it before I went. I had uol
been long, but there was a great noise in the nid
toom of gro&ICling, or rather gruntling, like a hog,
'" ~Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 31
and then P.'H a lowd abriek. Here it is, aaith tbe
mui. I wu mueh conc:erned upon tbe bearing of
it ; so ,_iling my eel(, I desired to go to prayer
in tbe nest room, where the man used to lie. By
this time many aC tbe towns-people came in, and
-re at duty. Abont the middle of tbe day $he
aforesaid noise came, as I thought, lowder, and
just by me; however, I was then not concerned.
ARerwMd, having some cliscow:ae with the man
about a month alter, I heard from him that it did
no more trouble him, nor to bia death. He lived,
u I remember, two yeara after. Thia ia the b•t
&D'1 truest account I can giye, I reat,
Sir,
Your Christian Friend to command,
CHAU.SI HATT.
Gi.¥"1· Mar 16, 1691.
Mr, 1ohn Humphreys brought Mr. Hay Hill to
me, with a bag or irons, naila, and brass, vomited
by a girl. I keep some or them to show : n•ils
about three or four inchea long, double crooked
at the end, and pieces of old brus doubled, about
an inch broad, and two or thre~ inches long, with
crooked l'dgea. I desired him to giH me the case
in writing, which be bath done as followeth. Any
one that i1 incredulous may now at Beckington re-
cei~e satisfaction from him, and Crom the maid
lier self.
In the ton of Beckington, by Froome in So-
menet-ahire, liveth Hary Hill, a maid about 18
.yeara of age, who buing lived very much in the
!leglect of her duty to God, wu, some time before
·lficbaelmu lut past was twelvemonth, taken nry
ill, and being seized with violent flta, began to
TOmit up about two hUDclnd crooked pina. Thia
"Cooglc
32 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
10 stupendous au accident drew a numerous COD•
coune of people to 1ee her, to whom she did cou•
stantly affirm, that 1he saw against the wall of the
room, wherein she lay, an old woman named Eli-
zabeth Carrier, who thereupon being apprehended
by a warrant from a justice of peace, and conYicted
by the oaths of two persona, was committed to the
county goal.
About a fortnight after, she began to vomit up
nails, pieces of nails, pieces of brasa, handles of
spoons, and 10 continued to do for the space of sill
months and upwards. And in her tits she said
there did appear to her an old woman, named
Margery Coopibea, and one Ann More, who also,
by a :warrant from two justices of the ~ace, were
apprehended and brought to the sessions held at
Brewton.for the county, and by the bench com~
mitted to the county goal. The former of these
dyed aa soon as she came into prison ; the other
two were tryed at Taunton Assizes, by 11'\Y Lord
Chief Justice Holt, and for want of evidence were
acquitted by the jury. Whereupon Mr. Francia
Jesse, and Mr. Christopher Brewer, declared, that
they had seen the said Mary Hill to •omit up at
several times crooked pins, nails, and pieces of
bra811, which they also produced in open court;
aud to the end they might be ascertained it was
no imposture, they declared they h3.d searched
'her mouth with their finger• before sbe did •omit.
Upon which the Court thought tit to call for
me, 1Vho am the minister of the parish, to testifie
the knowledge of the matter, which I did to this
effect, thst I had seen her at several times, after
having giYen her a little small beer, vomit up
aooked pins, nails, and pieces of brass. That to
prevent the suppo•ition of a cheat, I had caused
her to be brought to a window, and having lookc
into her 111outb1 1 searched h with m7 Jinser, u l
~Google
APPAlttTIONS AND WITOHIS. 81
•id the beer before 1he drank it. Thia I did, that
1might not want in circumstantial a111weq to wba&
my Lord and Court might propoae.
After the Anises wu·ended, and 1bewu turned
home, she grew wone than ever, by Tomiting of
nails, pieces of glass, &c. And falling one day
into a violent fit, 1be waa swelled to an e:uraordi-
nary, bigness ; some beer being given her, ahe
throwa up sneral pieces of bread and butter, be-
ameared with a poysonoua matter, which I judged
to be white mercury.· This so mucla atliighted tbe
neighboura, that they would come no more near
her. So that one day, she being takea dt1perate
ill, I was sent for to pray with her ; and compu-
aionating the deplorabl8Dess of her conditioa, I at
last resolved to take laer iato my 01r0 house, where
in some abort time the YO!Diting -sed, thougb
for some apace her distorting fits followed her.
But, ble1ted be God, is now, and has beea for a
considerable time last past, in very good health,
and fit for senice.
MAY Hitt, Minister of Beckidgton,
in the county ot Somenet.
.April 4, 1691.
They that will read Mr. Increase Mather's boo1r,
and especially his son's, Mr. Cotton llather'a,
lJook of the Witchcrafts in New Engleod, may see
enough to silence any incredulity that pre&endech
to bi. rational.
·Kr. Emlin, a p?eacher now in Dublin, told me
the atory of the bewitching of two gentlewomen,
aisters to Mr. Pacy, now a pious justice in Le.tot\
in Suffolke. He and bis siaters, now married, are
all yet liTing. They were used much like thole
in New England, mentioned by Mr. Cotton Mather,
being children then about nine and elewen yean
i>ld. But I Wldent&Dd that &he 1tory is ill print,
cs
"Cooglc
...
.......
94 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
ad It it alto in MS. from Jud11e Hale himsel~
wbo eot1demned tbe witch (which no man ,,..
more backward to do without full enaenct:)· A
lady of my acquaintance bath it under his I.and.
·Tbererore I forbear the particulars ; onTy one odcl
pM•age that Mr. Emlin told me I shall recite. A
godly millister, yet liYing, sitting by to see one of
the glrll in her Sta, suddenly felt a force pnll one
er the hooks from his breeches; and while he
looked with·wonder what was become of it, the
1ormented girl TOmited it up out of ber mouth.
Any that donbteth of thit story may be aatilfiecl
'Of Mr. Pacy, and both his sisters, yet tiring, and
may know all the evidences and circumstan•
which I pass offr.
I. Fatlix Platerus, an excellent, piout Protettallt
doctor at Datil, in hit Obse"ations, lib. l, p. to,
aaitb, " A certain e:i:orcitt priest, IMO, got wealth
by exorcising, by conjuring the possessed, in a city
of Jlelntia; into whose bouee coming on tome
lnatinett, l wu detired by a parent, that wu hit
oountrym:an, to tum him from thit ungodly prac•
tice. And nen then one was brought in, a robust
man, with tom hose, who they taid was possusetl
of a deril, and carried on their aboulden; they
cut him down on the panment of tbe chamber,
·who, prostrate on the ground, hit feet dra1'D to-
gether, bis handt contorted, aud, which Is 1tnnp,
hi• neck turned about, 10 that hit face look'd to
,hit back, be lay dumb and deaf like a blook. ,
They told me that he bad remained in thi• po1t11Te '
and form, without meat, drink, or any excretion I
many days. I, being struck with thi1 terribly, ,
weAt my ways. But this 1ame uorciat (pries•), I
I
"Cooglc I
APPAJllTIONS AND WITCHES. al
'1at tune'year, was brought to me, to Basil, to be
cured, havmg a pain in bis hip, that he could not
walk, and he lodged with ns. But when many
tbinp were used in nin, at Ian he conl•t to me,
that this befell him by the de•il ; whom, when he
by bis uorcisms would ba•e cast out o( croe poa-
aeat, the dtTil then, u he hid done oft before,
tbreatned him in theH words, in the German
&ongue, " P1ajf ic1a toiU tlir aoch cfn fAo1' gebftt
4au dt4 ..W. alle1 writ rid." And at once
thrust him 10 Yiolently up to the chimney, that
his t.ip hurt, hath been in this cue enr sine•.
It would be tedious to cite lftl'lled, credible
physitians that ban written, with full eYideDCe;
demoniacal ell'ecu on their patieuu.
II. The cue elaewbere m.ritloaed, which con-
Yinced llollerius, an estraordinary pbysitian, who
before derided it u melancholY, is undeniable;
or a @irl that, while people ln0lced on, wo11ld by
eomelfhat in•iaible be suddenly bound to a post
or bedstead, or her baud• t7ed togetherwith corda,
'hemp, or horse-hair; which Hollerius seeing, and
that the baud could not be untyed, but must be
cut, be confessed it wu by au inYisible or super•
Dat~I power. One can tcarce name a man un•
likelier to be deceind than Hollerillt.
Ill. Abundance of credible histories tell ua of
men and women struck and hurt by the deYil, saith
icribonills, page 82, 83. I will add one example.
"At Marpu•g (where be dwelt), auno 1678, a
young r111tic that had a deyil wu, by the council
or divines, brought into the temple at the time o(
publick prayers, that they might try whether they
could cut out the devil. And when prayera were
ended, and he wu brought again into the hospital
(their Bedl4DI)1 a certain citizen, well kaown 40
"Cooglc
18 BtSTOlUCAL DISCOURSE OF
me, 1tanding alone by hie own chi~ney tlre, incl
aeeing the demoniack man pus by in the street, by
the noise of the company, he earnestly prayed to
God for him. In the nry moment of his l'raying'
lty some invisible genius, he had suddenly such •
stroke.on hia neck, u cut him down on his face
QD the ground; I think, because that malignanC
1pirit would not that men sltould pray for him that
he bad possess'd. He profesa'd that he did sen-
sibly perceive something like the hand of a strong
man 1trike him, his face being towards the fire.
The man revealed it to me the same day, but
1ecretly, leat it should oaat hia •ife or children inio
a fright."
IV. What shall we cay to the many certain his-
tories of the fre~h bleeding of murdered bodies,
'• when the murd8l'8r i1 brought to it, or, at least;
\ when he toucheth it; whether it be by the soul of
. the dead, or by a good spirit that hateth murther,
· or by the devil appointed for revenge, it seems
:, plainly to Le by an inrisible spirit's operation. I
:' hue heard persona so credible gi•e instances of
' , it, aeen by themaeln1, that (though it be not a
oonatant ennt) it ta surely credible. ·
V. Scribonius. p. 126. For the strangeness of
the thing(aaith be) I will bring but one example 1
ID the county of Lippia, at Uftenia, a woman th11ot
had killed her child, cast it into the next rini
-.__ eecretly; the child, after three weeks, was found
·•'there by two maid1, and by the command of tM
·· 111agi1trate1 it was put into the lap or bo•om of th•
mother, being in prison, to try whether the ~
kaa1 would sweat blood: hereupon the dead infant
presently opened the left eye, and weeping much,
look'd on the mother; and that eye being 'hut,
lllood llowed out of it. This eu111ple is.i:ertalnl1
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCBEI. St
f. ltupendoua 1ign of God'• judgment. ll wa1
lffD of nry many most gra•e men, and i1 not
•oubted of by the inhabitants of that p1-.
VJ. Erasmns, and otben, tell us oC a witch at
a town near them (or rather, a deYil), that ap-
peared, and threatned to bum their houses ; and
•n the top of a chimney, holding a pot of ashes,
scatterad t.hem abroad, and pre68Dtly the town was
burnt.
VII. Plona and peaceable bishop Jos. Hall;
1aith, Soliloq. U. p. 53, 54.-Satan's prenlency
in this age is most clear, in the marYellou1 number
of witches abounding in all places. Now hundreds
are disconred in one 1hire ;• and, if tame·aec"l!Tlr
ua not, in a Yillage of fourteen housea, in the
north, ara found so many of thi1 damned brood;
Heretofora only barbaroua deserts had them, but
now the ciYillest and rt>ligion1 perts are frequently
pestered with them. Heretofore some silly igno-
rant old women, Bi:c., now w•ban known those of
both 1ne1, who profetised much l!nowledge, holi•
neH, and devotion, drawn into this damnable
practice.
VIII. I hn• elsawhera oited dinn pestages to
thi1 uae out of holy Cyprian; but that in the
epistle of Finoilianus to Cyprian, Ep, 15, p. 238,
seemeth atr11nge (like that of Magdalena Crucia,
and others, among the Papists). A woman pre-
tending to hue the Holy Ghost, proYed a witch,
and did many wondera: sl1e had a gilt of prayer,
and did baptize, and administer the Lord's supper
in the ordin:ary way, 8tc.
• Spft'olk and Bsaex,
"Cooglc
a8 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP ·
IX. I baYe before mentioned Zanchy'1jadirmentf
and his excellent bookl, le IHo, le .A.ngeli1, aad
de potftllia .Detnotium; than whom do man hatlt
giYen us a !Dore full testimony~ in general, of dia-
bolical operations ; I shall here only repeat hie
opinion of the mattntr oC Satan's working. H•
tbinketh (Tom. 3, 1. 4, c. 10, p. 188), that it ia
the very substance of the devil that entereth into
men, and ihat they have bodie1 more·aubtle tbaa
the air.
The doubt is, 1. Whether it be only other
causes that enter by this moving of them 111
deTils. 2. Or whether they opente and enter
only l'irhlt•, by some force sent from their sub-
ltance. 3. Or opente by contiguity of their 1ub-
1tance Itself in men.
l· The Ant way, no doubt, tbe1 work, u by
mcmt.g winds, and fire, and water, and our blood
and humoun, and our tempters and enemiet, &c.,
but not that way alone.
2. What enertzy or force he can send, that is
neither hie own substance, nor any other aubatance,
I cannot concei\oe.
3. That ·hit nry substance entereth into the
possessed, I s•e no cauae to doubt; for be can
rnetrate any part of our bodiea, u he is a •pirit.
And il we knew that he operate onlf in some body
or Yehicle. air, or air and fire mist, yet what part
oi our bodies·cannot air and Are penetrate (ancl
this supposition would countenance Dr. More".a
opinion, that all epirits are the souls of eome
bodies). And Scripture saith so much of deYila
emrintz into men, and being in them, and being
out out of them, that I see not bow wa can deny
it to be their substance,
And bow else ahould th..y mm-e us (~idea by
instrumento). la it any more wonder that dni11
(permitted) caa e11ter, than air; or how elae work.
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 39
they on men'• 1oulaf I muat 1ay it, to humbi.
u1, that I fear, that in moat temptations that aol-
licit our thoughts, and our wills, and aft'ections,
and puaioat, if not sometimes our tongues and
huda, it ia the Yery present substance of evtl
apirita that by coutiguity mo•e us, nen true
Chri1&i11111 •hen they tin. Aud that it is no uo-
-mly thing to pray God to caat Satan out of our
thoughts and hearta. Oh that we better kue.-
what cauae we haYe to fear letting him in, and by
fielding and ou1tom to give him adnutagea to
tempt aud rule us.
But yet hi1 substantial preaeuce and hia opera•
•ioos are to be distinguished. He hurteth not all
the& he is preaent with, but those that he hath
power to work upon, and that are prepared to ,..
cein hia operatio111, God himself doth uot work
&ife or grace .on all that be ia present with ; and
&Pt what he doth, he doth it by his aubatautial
presence, or hia nsence,
X. I haYe cited Luther's testimony, and bow
the deYil appeared to him at Coburge: and Me.
bmcthoo's, here and elsewhere. See alao Pet.
Martyr, Loe. Com. Claa. I. c. 9, and cap. 8, § 8,
page 39, 40.•
XI. The IDOi& judicioua, credible Melanctbon,
in bia epistle to Hubert Languet111 (the author nf
. laniu Brutus'• Vind. coo. Tyran.) Epiatolar. I. 2,
p. MO, 551, aaitb, " Though there be sometimes
mtural causes of mado111, yet it i1 moat certain,
ctut de•il• enter into the bodies of some, and
. • Cal•in relates, that be bad a Yision, in which
.... uhibiled to bis new, all the -particulars of a
battle fought at a considerable diatance from him,
Wween the Catholia uul Proteataots.-El.
"Cooglc
40 BISTOittc.u DISCOURSE OF .
cause madn•a and torments to them, either witlt
natural causes, or without them ; for itis manifest;
that such persons are oft delivered withOllt utural
remedies. And these diabolical spectacles are oft
prodigies and aigoificationa of future things.
Twelve years ago there was a woman in Saxony,
that never learnt letters, and yet, when she •a•
~ted on by the devil, after torment, she 1pake
Greek and Latin of the future Suon war.
" Sixteen years ago there wu, in the Marke, 1
girl, that when she pull'd hairs from cloaths, they
were turned into mark money, which the girl de-
:woured with long and loud gnuhiog of teeth ; and
tl1ose tlguret (or abapea) ofmoney sometimea sud•
deoly anatcht out of her bands, -re true money,
which are yet kept by some; and after, the girl
felt great torment. But abe .was delivered from
all that disease after some months, and yet lhreth
in health ; but frequent prarers of godly persona
were made for her, and other ceremonies were pur.
posely omitted." Thua Melaucthon.
Mr. Jo. Letaii. a L«irta~ JtUtice of tM Peaee ift
' Cardigamhire, ttlitT. the Temmony of Dr. Ellil,
and Mr. John Davil, about the Dead Meta't
Uglit1, the Knoelcer1, and Apparitioftl.
Jrfa. J. L1tw1s being a justice of the peace, and a
man of learning, at the time when, under Crom•
well and Harrison, the reading and weak pa1'80llS
.wtte cast out, and itinerant preachers set up, that
turned four or five pariabes into one of their cir•
cuita, and did little but preach, and abut up the
doors where they came not, and by ignorant decry•
ing superstition, forms, and ceremonies, eet up •
error, anabaptiatry, and nnjuat separations. He
being areatly grieyed for theH confualom, wrot-e
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES, 41
largely to Ill• about them, whereupon, and on more
such instances, .I wrote my _five di1put11tion1 on
church government, liturgy, 11nd ceremonies. And
:Mr. Lewisjoined with me in a design to have begg'd
money in pity to Wales, to ha.e set up a Welch
colledge at Shrewsbury; and his notices about.
apparitions came in, but on the by; at my requeet.
But tho' I dismember hit letters with regret, by
casting away the main part that wa1 well worth
t,he reading (and all my answers to.them), yet it
would be ao uneuitable to insert such matten iq a
hiatory of spirits, that if any of hia acquaintance
blame me for it, they must accept of this excuse.
He is known by published books of his own.
Pa.rt of Mr. John LM.'1 Ffr1t Lellet, ,.,za.A,.g lo
Spirit• and WitcMI.
Most worthy Sir,
I HAVE now another motion to you, as to
that passage in your Unrea1onablm6u of Infidelity,
where you show the meaning of the apirit, u to
human learning, &c., and those.twenty.nine con•
aiderationa (for the page I cannot cite, beoauae I
have not the book at this very instant), because it
is in the midst ofthe book, and not so discernable
to all readert; I could humbly beg of you to get
your printer and atationer to print them apart io a
few small lenea, for there is nothing, generally,
lhat is more mist111cen among us than that, and I
aee the publiahing here but so much of them i11
this kind, would do infinite good here; and I
~ould myself be at charge of buying and dieper..
111g many scores of them. And because of that
e<>pious satisfaction which you give of spirits, tha11
which th~re cannot be grea.ter convincement•
aaai11ac ln4d1lit7 111<1 AthtiaPI, 1 oould altorcl
~ .Google
a HISTORICAL DISCOURSE or
ro tttttal 1trange Instances from these parts, bat
•hall t1ouble you only with two. Since th•
time I rec.ind your letter, there happened in mJ
ne;ghbourhood thit following :- ·
A man and hia family, being all in bed, about'
titer midnight, awake in bed, he could perceiYe a
light entrlng a little room where he lay, and, one
after another, of some a dosen in the shape of
men, and two or three women, 1'ith small children
in their arms, entring in, and they seemed to
dance, and the room to be far lighter and •ider
than formerly ; they did seem to eat .bread and
oh- all about a kind of tick upon the ground;
they otl'ered him meat, and would smileupoh him:
he could perceiYe no voice, lout he once calling tO
God to bless him, be could perceive the whisper of
a Yoice in Welc:h, bidding him hold his peacet
lleing about four boars thu1, he did what he coulcl
to awalce his wife, and could not; they went out
into another room, and after some dancing de-
parted ; and then he aro.., yet being but a very
amall room be could not find the door, nor the way
into bed, until crying out, his wife and family
awaited, Being within about two miles of me, (
aeut for the man, who is an boneat poor husband-
man, and ofgood report ; and I made him believe
I would put him to his oath for the truth of lbi1
relation, who wu Yery ready to take it.
The att.ond (if yon have not formerly heard),
the strange and usual appearance nf lighta (called
in Welch, dftld ....,.., cmsdk1) before mortality.
This ia ordinary in most of our countiea, that I
never acarce heard of any sort, young or old, but
tbia ia seen before death, and often obsened to
part from the Yery bodies of the persona all along
the way to the place of buJ"!al, and infallibly death
will ensue. Now, air, it is worth your resolutioa,
whether this may proceed from God, or no; it 'ia
C01D1Donly impu&ell to the ip- air of the c:oua-
, ,Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 4a
~es. But that evil spirits can come by IO mlleh
knowledge, u to be alwa7a 10 infallible (ihough
herein I confess them very vut), aad be so favour•
able and officious unto man, u to be such seaaon•
able monitors of his diasoh1tion, and to give IO
111uch disco.ery of apiritual essences, and the im•
aiortality; I doubt whether they mind ua ao much
good aa this : Some wiles I confess they may have
by such appearances, but it carries the benefits
111entioned with it; whereas their disappearance
makes more for'infidelity and atheism ; but this I
leave to your judgment, begging pardon for thia
boldness in diverting you from your far better
thoughts ; and seeing it is my happin- to have
this little invisible acquaintance with you, I shall
omit no opportunity of troubling you with such
poor thoughts u the Lord shall give unto me of
&he heat things, humbly wishing (aa for the making
up the aad differences o{ religion among us) the
Lord would give those in authority to weigh that
pious and wise course you have proposed, as to
those four great parties in the Dedication of your
•• Saints' Rest," with my unfeigned prayera for
JOUr health and happiness;
Sir,
Your nry thankful Friend
and Servant, in Chriat,
JoHN LEWIS.
Mr. Johrt LnDi1'1 Secortd Letter,
As for apparitions, I am stored with so many
inatances, that require rather a volume. There is .
, tb&t evidence for the candles, that scarce I know
any of age but hath aeen them, and will depose it.
There ia here a talk, whereof yet I have not cw•
tainty, that a daughter of tbe man mentioned in
the lut, fetching waLer at & well, had a blow!ivea
,, Google
"4 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
her, aod a boy coming towards her, 1he charged
him with the blow, who denyed he was so nlU'
her; but bid ber look upon her father, that stood
not far of', and with tbat he could see her father
fling a stone at her, which paased with a mighty
•iolence by her face, and the stone was found with
printa of fingers in it; but no such thing u the
Cather there, neither was he at home since the
night before. But certain it i1, that living men's
ghost1 are ordinarily seen in these parts, and un-
awarea to the parties. We have iu this county
19veral sil•er and leaden mines, and nothing more
ordinary than some subterranean spirits, called
knockers (where a good Yeiu is), both heard, and
after seen, little statured, about half a yard long;
thi1 nry instant, there are miners upon a dilconry
of a nin upon my own lands, upon this score,
and two olf'ered oath they heard them in the day-
time. Lieutenant Colonel Bowen, I hear, is upon
discovery, that .what you heard wu witchcraR,
but be holds canting tenets; all which minds ua
the more to admire the King of Spirits, our Lord
God Almighty, and that our eyes behold but the
least part of his secrets and marvels; to wiw..
arm1 and bleuinga I commit and leave yo11.
·-.....
Sir,
I pray pardon this tronble ot
Your very thankful Servant,
JOHN Lsw11.
Glaskerigg,
lhl 28th of Noi·ember, 1656.
, ,Google
APPARitlONS AND WITCHES'. '4IJ
Mr. Dai:il'1 Letter-, concmi.ing tllll Corp...ca.dk1,
iit Wale1.
Venerable.Sil-,
Foa your worth.hath purchased you tl1at
:stile. With all due respects, you shall hereby
undentand that I am one who sincerely bleueth
himself to have been much edified by you, as being
'COnfirm'd in some points, and informed in others,
by a piece of your learned and judicious worka,
termed by yourself a 1upplement, and which was
communicated to me by my worthy friend and
.special encourager, John Lewh1, Esq., at whose
request I am to give you the best satisfaction I
.can, touching those fiery apparitions which do, as
.it were, mark out the way for corpses, and that
aometimes before the parties themaelvea fall aick,
and sometimes in their 1iekue&s. or theae I could
nenr hear in England; they are common in theae
three countiea, Cardigan, Caermartben, and Pem•
brook, arid, as I hear, in tome other part of
Wal~ ·
These, in our language, we call CatWt>yllas
Cyrth (i.e. corps-candles), not that we do see any
thing else besides the light, but because that light
doth as much resemble a material candle-light lie
eggs do eggs, saving, that in their journey these
candles be mcdo apparenter, mcnlo dilparnit~.
111pecially when one comes near them; and if one
come on the way egainst them, unto him they
nniah, but presently appear behind him, and hold
on their course. If it be a little candle, pale, or
blewish, then follows the corps either of an
abortive, or some infant ; if a big one, then the
oorp• of some one come to age; if -there be 1een
two or three, or more, some big, some small, to•
gether, then so many, and such corpses together;
if ttro candles come Crom diverse places, and be
, ~Google
ill llISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
1een to meet, the corpses will the like; ir any q/
these candles be seen to tum sometimes a little
out or tbe way, 'or path, that leadeth unto the
church, the following corps will be found to turn
in that •ery place, ror the avoiding of some dirty
'lM'le, or plash, &c. NQ• let us Call to e•idence:
Being about the age of filteen, dwelling at Lany~
Jar, late at night; some neighbours aaw· one of
these candles bonring up and down along the
rinr bank, until they were weary in beholding: at
lut they left it so, and went to bed ; a Cew weeb
after came a proper damsel Crom Montgomeryabire
to see her Criends, who dwelleth on the other fide
oC that ri..er htwyth, and thought to Cord the nver
at that 'lery place where the light waa seen ; but
being dinwaded by 1ome lookert on (tome, it'•
JDOll like, oftho•e that saw the light), to adventure
on the water, which was high, by reason of a ftood,
ehe w~lked up and down along the rinr bank,
even where, and even as the Coretaid candle did,
waiting for the falling of the water, which at laat
1he took; but too aoon for her, forshe was drown'cl
therein.
Some thirty-four or thirty-be years by-gone,
one Jane Wyat, my wife'• sister, being nurse to
Baronet Rudd's three eldett children, and (the
lady miatri1 being deceased) the lady controuler or
that liouse, going late into a chamber whe,. the
maid•sernnts lay, l&W' there no less than five ol
theta lights together. It happened a while aft•,
the chamber being newly plaistered, and a great
grate of coal,Are therein, kindled to hasten the
drying up or the plaiatering, that be or the
maid-servants went there to bed, as they were
·•ont, but (u it fell out) too soon, for in th"
morning they were a11 dead, being suft'ocated (I
conceh•e) in their sleep with the steam of the
new tempered lime and coal. Thia was at Ll1111·
gathen, in.Carmarthenshire.
"Cooglc
APPARmONS AND WITCHES. 4'1
' Another kind or apparition lt'e baH, whiclL
commonly we call Tan·we, or Tan-wed, because It
seemetb firy. Thia appearetb, to our seeming, in
the lower region of the air, straight and long, not
.•o much unlike a glaive, mours aad 1boot1 directly,
and level (as who would say, I'll hit), but Car
more sbowly than Stelle cadetttu, or atar shot,
ligbteneth all the air and ground where it pauetb,
Jaatetb three or !our miles, and more, for ought ia
~nown, because no man seetb the rising or begin•
niog of it ; when it falls to the ground it apark-
letb, and ligbtnetb all about. Tb.., before their
decease, do fall upon freeholders lands, and you
shall scarce bury any auch with us, be he but a
'lord of a house and garden, but you shall find
aome one at bis burial, at least wise in bis neigh·
bourbood, that bad seen thia fire to fall on some
part oC bis lands. Two of these, at several times,
I have seen myself, aince I studied meteors, and
aioce I waa a minister, ancl narrowly obsened, eyq
.till they began to fall, but the interposition of
arounda marred the conclusion ; for where, and
how they fell, I saw not; but where I did guesa
they fell, there died in the one place an aged
gentleman; in the other, a freeholder too, though
of a meaner rank.
To come nearer bome--My mother's fint hus-
band (for my father marryed her a widdow) walk·
ing about bis ground, saw one of these darta, or
piles, aloft, which fell down bard by him, shone
far, and sparkled round about bis body, be took it
for a warning piece, made b.is will, and having
Jived in good beahh, some four or five months
after dyed.
A little before the decease of mine own father,
aged ninety-six, a son in law of his, who dwelled
two miles oft' (but upon higher ground), aaw such
another fall in a close behind the old man's house.
which gave NCh a light, tbst by it ·he did clearly
"Cooglc
U HISTORICAL DISCOtmsE O.,..
•ee the bo111e, the hedges, and·the oaks iu' tbe
wood adjoyning.
Sir, so many or these evidences, a1 I aaw not
my1elf, I receind from understanding and credible
penona, and such as would not lye, no, not for a
benefice ;1 and yourself may receiYe the same from
me, as Crom one that was never too credulous, no-
thing supenititious, and aa little ceremonious.
These aecretl I dare not father upon Satan : I will
not honour him so much, so much u to ascribe to
him the knowledge or contingent futurea. I
presume that of himself, be cannot certainly know
whether or when a healthy man shall sicken, nor
whether or when be shall dye of his 1ickne11,
nor whether he shall dye by aickneu, or bJ
'fire or water, &c., nor (in an open country eapeoo
cially) which way, oftwo, three, or more, the corps
shall be brought to church, whether it shall meet
another corps in the way, whether it shall pass a
riYer by the ford or bridge, bow many 1tope.
turnings, and windings it shall make, Satan 06ll
have no certain fore-Jrnowiedge of all such circum-
atancet, .and more ; but this candle-maker and
director of them too foresees and foreknows thelll
all, and therefore must needs be theCreator, who,•
according to the good pleasure ofhia will, he hath
determined and allotted to several nations their
aeYeral habitation•, dispo1itions, and conditioni.
even 10 (as I suppose) bath he vouchsafed to each
of them some pecllliar signs and tokens, if none to
aome, which I cannot belieYe, and ifto some more,
and more wonderful that to other some, for mJ
part, I can give no other reason for it but bia will.
This, with my hearty prayers for younelf, yolK
pious and learned brethren of the auociation.
I rest your Friend, in all kind officet
that lye in my power,
G<mef'glyn, JOHN DATll.
the l 0th Marci., 1656.
, ,Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 49
Sn1ral othn Leltet"• t.md Relationl eot1M"•m1
.dpparition1 attel Witcla&mft1.
irr. 7'hotilal Tillo., Minimr o/ .dylatoortl, itl
K•; hU !Attet' conumi•g on. Apparitiott i•
BochuUr, thU prac.t Ydlll', 1691,
Reirerend Sir,
:BuNo inrormed that yon are writing abom
1'itehcraf't and apparitions, I take the freedom,
though a stranger, to send you this following ...
la&ion:-
. Mary, the wire or John Gofre, of RochestHa
!leing aftlicted with a long illness, remoYed to heJ'
father's house at West Mulling, which is abo114
Dine miles distant from her own : there she died;
lune the 4th, this present year, 1691.
The day be(ore her departure, she· grey "1!ry
impatiently desirous to aee·hertwochildren, whOUI
she bad left at home; to the care or a nurse. Sia
prayed her bn~band to hire a horse, for she must
go home; and die with the children. When they
peranaded' her to the contrary, telling her she W1NI
aot it to be taken out of her bed, nor able to ai&
an bonebaclc ; she entreated them, howeYer, to
try ; " If I cannot sit," said she, " I will He·'all
llong upon the horse, for I must go and see my
poor babes."
A minister, who liYes in the town, was with ti.r
a& ten·a clock that night, to whom ahe express'd
good hopes in the mercies of God, and a willing\>
ne11 to die; " But," said she, " it is my misel'J'
that I cannot aee my children.
Betweell one and two-a-clock ill the mornillf
J)
"Cooglc
so ~ISTORtCAL msoouttsE OP.
she fell into a trance. One Widow Turner, Mio
watched with her that night, says, that her eyes
were open and bed, and her jaw falJen; she pot
lier hand upon her mouth and nostrils, but could
)l<'rceive no breath, she thought her to be in a fit.
and doubted whether she we11t alive or dead.
The next day, this dying woman told lier mo.
t11er, that she had \,een at home with her children.
" That is impossible," said the mother, " for you
ha"e been l1ere in bed all the while."--" Yes," re-
plie<l the other, " but I 1ll1'S with them lut night,
when I was asleep."
The nu1'Se at Rochester, Widow Aleunder by
name, affirms, and says she will.take her oath on't
before a magistrate, and receive the ncrament upon
it. that a little before twu.a-clock that mornimg.
s!1e saw the likeness of the said Mary Goft'e come
out of the next chamber (where the elder child Jar
in a hd by itself, t11e door being left open), mid
stood by her bed-side for about a quarier of 811.
hour; the younger child waa there lying by her.&
her eyes moved, and her mouth went, but !lhe laid
nothing. The nurse moreoTer says, that she ,,.
)J1!rfectly awab, it was then day-light, being one
of t11e longest days in the year. She sate up in
her bed, and looked steadfastly upon the ap~
tinn; in that time sbe heard the bridge-cloolc
.stt·ike two, and a while after said, " Jn the name
of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, what m1
thou?" Thereupon the appearance removed, mid
went away; she slipp'd on her cloaths and fol·
lowed, but wl1at became on't she cannot ten.
Then. and not before, she began to be grievously
.-rrighted, and went out of doors, and walked upon
the wharf (the house is just by the river side) for
&(llDe hours, only going in now and then to look to
t\1e children. At fi.-e-a-clock she went to a neigh•
bonr'11 houae, and knocked at the door, but thq
"Cooglc
XPPA.RITIONS AND WITCR'E9. $1
would not riH; at sis she \\'ent 9'11in, then t~
·arose and Jet her in. She related to them all that
had pass'd; they would persuade her she w•
mistaken, or dreamt, but she confidentlr ~llirme<I,
" Ir ever I saw her in all my life, I saw her tbia
night."
One or those to whom she made the relatfou
(Mary, the wife of John Sweet) had a messea~
come from Mulling that forenoon, to let her know
her neighbour Gofl'e was dying, aud desired to
speak with her; abe went over the same day, uid
found her just departing. The mother, amonf!H
other discourse, related to her bow much her
daughter had long'd to see the children, and ~aid
die bad seen them. This brou11ht to Mrs. Sweet'•
mind what the nurse bad told her that momi113o
for, till then, abe bad not thought to mention it,
but disguised it rather, aa the woman's disturbed
imsgination. ·
' The 1ub1tance or this I bad related to me by
John Carpenter, the rather of the decf!ued, nut
day aftel\ her burial, J nly the second. I fully di.t-
«nH"Sed the matter with the nune, and two
aeighboun, to whole house she went that moJD-
ing.
Two days alter, I bad it from the mother, tm
aluister that wu with her in the evening, and the
womaa who sat up with her that last night; they
all egr.ee in the 1a111e atory, and nery one helpe to
l&rengtben the others teatimony.
They appear to lie sober, intelligent parwme, r.r
mough from deligning to impoae a cheat upon tm
. world, or (o manage a lye, ud what temptatioa
tlaey 11&oald Jr• under for so doing I cannot con-
Mive.
Sir, that God would hies• your pious endeaToma
i>r die -•ictiou of Atbelata and Saddncees, and
Ille promotillg of tru• l'tlicion and godlin••; and
"Cooglc
Q, HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OF
that this nanatin may conduce somewhat towards
the farthering of that great work, ia the heart)' de-
aire and prayer of
Your most faithful Friend,
A.ylufortl,
Aly, 6, 1691.
and humble Sern.nt,
Tao. TILSOW.
Minitter of A.ylufortl, .,..
Mai<MtOM, '" Knil.
Mr. 77iomar Woodeo.:1ce'1 Letter i• relatiot1 to
Witche1 and A.ppariliom ; together with /ow
St<Wie1 incloletl therein, all relating to t~ 141*
Sv.bject.
I RAVB herein sent yon those four atorfes I
'had the remembrance of, when l was with yoia
last, which I have subscribed my name to. BqQ
who can prove aux thing rationally to them wlie·
Jiave not so much reason as to know their o-
eouls f All of this tribe are of that mind, to ~
line nothinii but what they aee themselves. But,
• Religio Medici aaya, The devil bath them ill
too fast a noose, for to appear to them would be to
aon"ert them from their enor. He rather dcligh•
to be their god than to prove himself a deYil, Ind
IO torment their thoughts too soon. They uaert
md admire the omnipotency of matter, but in tile
mean time are insensible of the spring of motioo:
they are so full of seconds they will not own a 6nt
mo.er. 'Tis strange arithmetick, that two should
not suppose one, and as bad geometry to have cQ.
oimference without a center. But I fear you will
but &,pend. argument& on them who are re1olvecl
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 5*
lldt to yield to any eTidence, ror it is the lntereit
of their lusts neither to believe God nor a deTif.
Yet I remember a story or one at Colchester, who,
in a brando, and defiance of the de•il, would w.alk
in the night to the church-yard, where it was ~
ported he appeared and walked, and he met him
in the shape of a black dog, with terrible eyes, ·
which brought him by terrors into such a mind,
that be W3S neTer quiet in bis mind till he got into
good 1ociety. Coming to Mr. Shepbeard'a, at
Coln, Mr. Harlakenden atay'd him, though Mr.
Shepheard was gone, He lodged there, and when
at prayer, the black dog waa seen by the man aa ii
he would baTe tom Mr. Harlakenden's throat out,
but be wa• in his house and duty, and neither aaw
nor feared. And this man continued long in thia
condition, pro•ed a most 1erion1 Christian, always
bad some appearance of this dog, a& a Jly, or a Jlea.
and varioua shapes; and eTen at his death, lylag
long sick, bad great peace and Tictory oTer the
fear of death, and was 10 joyful and desirona to be
dissolTed, that this dog or Jlea made no impreaaion
opon; when, bad it bflen a melancholick fancy, It
would hue been worst at so dark an hour, wheG
tha humours are up and the spirits down. Thia
story I had a,lso from Mr. Harlakenden, but it u
not to be cast before such swine as this Epicurean
~ abounds with, who, if Christ himself was on
earth, with the Gadarens, would rather get rid of
him, than lose their herd of bog•. But I tire you,
the Lord support you, and giTe you the joy of
faith, the blessed prospect of hope, and that cordial
ol lova, which ia stronger than death.
lam, '
Your wortbleas Brother,
and Servant in the Lor41,
T. Wooncocss.
J.lr 17, 01
"Cooglc
M HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
Jk,efollow llld/ov Sloria tMllliotNd ta IAe j'offo
going L.tltt.
I. Mr. Mun, rector or Stockerson, in Leicester•
shire, had a daughter married to one Mr. Beecham;
. rector oC Branaton, in Rutland, in whoae house it
wu frequently obse"ed, that a tobacco-pipe would
mOTe itaelffrom off a shelf at one end of the room;
tio another shelf at the other end of the room, with•
<lilt any hand. Mr. Mun •isitiog bis son-in-law1
took a pipe of tobacco in that room, and looked
for some such motion ; but a great Bible, instead
ol a pipe, mof'ed itself off Crom a desk at the
lower end of the room, and cast itself. into his lap.
Whereupon be opened the Bible at Geo. iii. U;
1aying. H Oome, Satan, I'll abow thee thy doom,
The seed of the woman 1h&ll break the aerpen~•
lulad. Avoid Satan."
Thi& Mr. Mun himaelf told me, when, io the
aiekoeas year, 166.5, I lived in Stockerson-Hallo
I have no reason to suapeot the veracity of a
IQJIOf man, uonstant preacher, and a good scbolVI
II. Dr. Lamb, who was killed bv the mob for a
ooojurer, about 1540, met one mo;ning Sir MilM
Sanda and Mr. Barbor in the street, and invited
them t.o go and drink their morning draught at bis
lto1ue. Discoursing about his art, be told them,
if they would hold their tongues, and their ht.Ilda
Crom medling with ·any thing, be would show them
some sport. So falliniz: to his practice, in the
middle of the room springs up a tree ; soon a.ner
appeared three little fellows, with axes on thei~
. shoulder~, and baskets in their hands,, who pr..
·sently fell to work, cut down the tree, and carried
all away. But Mr. Barbor observing one chip w
fall on .his Yelvet coat, he slips it into his pockeS.
t,liit 111~ht, w4ell he iUlQ bia family were ill bed,
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS 'AND WITCHES. 55
•d asleep, all the doors and windows in the hou-e
opened and clattered, so as h awaken and aft'right
them all. His wife said, " Hu•band, you toH me
y.iu was at Dr. Lamb's thi• day, and I fear you
medled with iomething." He replied, " I put a
.:hip into my pocket."-" I p1ay you," sa;d she,
• filng it out, or we shall have no quiet." He did
90, and all the windows and doors were prel!'lntly
abut, and all quiet, so they went to sleep.
Dr Barbor and .ltlajor John Barbor, who married
my only sister, told m' this relation, 'trbo bad' it
.gai.n and again from their 'father amt moth~r;
and, I know no reason to doGbt the truth of it.
This Mr. Barbor laid tba first ~ne in building of
Co?ent Gardeo.
Ill. When I ,,... a 1chool0 boy at Oundle, iit
Northamptonshire, about the Scots coinin~ int.O
'- England, I beard a well, in one Dobs's yard, dru1n ·
:: like any dru:n beatinir a march. I beard it at a
, , distanct1; then I we'.lt and put my bead iuto the
· mouth of the well, and beard it distit1ctly, a:1d nn
'"' body in the well. It laste<l aenral days and
" nights, 10 a• all the country people came to iw•r
; it. And so it drWDJJ1'd on &aTeral clwigei of
: dme1.
When Kinl?-Oharles the St'Cnnd died, I went to
the Oundle carrier, at the Ram Jun, in Smitbfiel<l,
-who told me their well had drumm'd, and many
people came to hear it. Aa.cl I h~ard it drumm'd
Oil.I» Since.
IV. Mr. llarlakenden, who li•ed at Coln Pdory,
to Essn (where I often wa.~. his only son being
my pupil), formerly the house of the Earls of Ox·
ford. 0.f from the house W:\S a tomb-house, \Vith
a chamber over it; his butler, Robert Crow, an!l
William, hi~ coachman, usa:I to lie in that room.
4& t',TI> of the dock io t,bt 01orning tbe;e was
"Cooglc
66 .HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
....,. the eound or a great bell tolling. Tbq
affirming it 10, Mr. Harlakenden slept in thee•-
iag, 10 as to be awaited at oneor the clock, and lar
•~wi:s:t hia two servants, to aatiafie bimselt At
bro of the clock comes the uaual aouod of a gna&
bell tolling, which put him into a fright and aweat
eo as he jogg'd bis servants; who awaking, aai.t_
• Harle, Tom ia at bit sport." It reYiYed him to
be&: them speak. Upon a particular occasion.
.
Mr. Thomas Shevheard (who after went to New
Ealgland), with some other miniatera and good
people, spent a night in prayer, and bad some re-
tpect to the place, serving God, to cast out ti.t
de•il ; and Crom that time nner waa 111y aucla
poiae heard in the chamber.
This I had from Mr. Harlakenden's own lllOllth.
and bis aervanta, ear-witneaaea, when I waa llJOll
the place.
Ita Ttltatw,
Tao. WOODCOCK&
0/good .Angeli, ll'lld •o-<klubtful Spirits, -'.
their ta0table Amou. ·
TRIS sort or operation• is of more pleasant eon-·
aideration than the diabolical, and u convincing of
flie agency or superior spirits OD things below 0
but so many have written of it, 11 maketh my
fatthor labour needless. Let them that woulll -
m<>re, read Mr. Isaac Ambro•e of our CommunioD
with Angela, the Lord Lawrence, Mr. Samul
~..rk'a Mirrour, Zanchy de Angelia, &c.
Boclin tell1 ue of one of his acquaintanoe. thal
Md a good geniua that would alway• give him
11otiw when he did ill, by a atrok•; ancl wllat
"Cooglc
AP.J>ARITIONS AND WITCHES. fJ1
lie should do when he omitted it. I pan by old
Writera.
l will mention.now but these fe\v.
L That of lllr. Tate, in Ireland, mentioned by
Mr. Clark and l\lr. Ambrose, and confirmed to me
-bv his near relations that knew of it. Dr. Tate,
,,:ith his wire and children, being stripp'd, inn
.fbreed to ftf'e for their Jives, by the lriah, when
tbey were murdering thousands, in their rebellion
io 1641. They were wandering in unknown
places, upon commons covered with snow ; and
·ha'ring no food, and she carrying a sucking c)Uld,
·and hning no milk, she went to lay do1rn the
child to die, and on the brow of a bank she found
.a euck-bottle, \vith sweet milk in it, no footstep•
appearing in the snow of any that should bring it
thither, anrl far from any habitation, which p~
seM"ed the child's life, who after became a blessing
to the chnrcb. ·
JI. When Prince Rupert march'd with his army
'tbrough Lancashire, to York fight, where he was
overthrown, the town of Bolton made some re•isl•
•nee in his passage, and he gave them no quarter,
but kille<I men and women. When he was goof',
those that escaped came out from the places whe1e
they lurked, and an old woman found in thestref'ts
a ,,,man killed, and a child by .her not dead. The
old woman took up the child, an<I, to Slill its cry-
iTig, put her own breast io the child, which ha<I
not given suck, aa I remember, of above twenty
)'ears; the child being quieted, she presently per-
«ived milk to come: and continued to gi•e the
dtild sufficient milk till it was provided for. I
had the full assnran~e of this from my worthy
friendilM:rs. Hunt, wife to Mr. Rowland Hunt, of
Harrow on the Hill; who told me, that ah8' her-
eelf waa onA that wu appointed by tbe committee
D~
~ .Google
sa msTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
to malre trial of the cue, and 1be found it true, a
t.be old woman'• breuta to giH the child millr, u
wu reported. And abe told me in 1665, that the
aaid child wu.at that time aliye, a aenant womaa
ia London.
. III. Though I lay no great 1tre11 on the reports
el those Papiatl who corrupt church biltory by
fabulous mi.1t11re1, yet many hi1tori• of the
•inlatry of angela, cited by them out of the
fatben. are credible. Those that han purged
their legends retain a great number. Baroniu..
and De la Cerda, and many others, are worth the
rftding by the judicious, that can discern the dif-
ferent probabilities. But to deny all the ejecting
« devila, and the woaders mpntioned by Tertw-
lian, Origen, Cyprian, Chry_109wm, Augu1tioe,
Sulpitiua, Severu1, tbose of Gresory, Thaumatlll'-
gua, Martin, &c. (tho' aome.mily be o.ar-agg,.
nted), betides tboee in historians, Euaebiu..
Socrates, Sozomen, Victor Vticensis, Procopiua,
Nicepborus, Tbeodoret, 4 would be unreason-
able and uncllristian iner.edulity. I have formerly
111entioned the African bishops, or preachers, who
-¥1. apalre well, when their tongues were cut out by
tommand of the Arian kin11: and Victor, &n-
Gueus, and Procopiua (as I remember, alf three)
said, they saw them, and bevd them apealr. aner.
But one or. them aaillt, that one of the bishops wu
...cter drawn into j.be sin of fornication, and hia
tpeech went away again.
IV. In our late war, I knew of many strange
pnserntions. One credible penon had a bullet
allot through the f~lt of bis bat, and stopp'd at the
lining, and hurt him not. Another had a small
Bible in his poclr.et, and a musket-bullet abet ia\O
lai1 Bible, which a&Yed bis life.
_The 1tory of Sil .Riclwd GreenTilt'a ex~utiODI
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 59
i1 printed already by Mr. Clark, and othen. To
confirm it, Mr. Ketdeby Woodhouae (1i1ter'110n
to Ju1tice Kettleby, and to Walter Kellleby, t'be
tiookaeller'a father), a 10ber, credible man, then
JiYing in Bewdeley, oft told me, that he wu one
of the be (or seYen) whose 1iH1 were sand.
Being aoldiera for the Parliament, and talten
priso'Den, Sir Richard Green•ile commanded them
all to be hanged. The first man being turned ol'
the ladder, a new hempen rope brake; they 1enc
for another, and haog"d him again, and that brah.
and, as I remember, a third; whereupon Sir B.
G.:aned them all. And Mr. Woodhoul8 all tlla
while stood by the g111lon, eirpecting hi• tum,
and by thi1 etcap'd. 'Tis like it wu by an iD"
,.Jaible power,
V. In 166! came out diven bookl of new pro-
digiea, moat of them as esec:utiom on notorioue
1!nner11, and some as deliverances of better ~n~
I read them, and enquired after the matter of fact;
and I found by what policy Satan bath pt'rverted
bi1tory, and obscured the honour of God's worllt,
by causing we~lc-beaded, factious persons to on~
do. I found many of the 1trange things th••
mentioned had sufficient proof, but the writ-
dropp'd in many circumstances and 1torie1, by
partial credibility, that were not true. And thi.
frustrated the books and the prodigiea, by spoiling
th• credit of all the rest.
VI. I know not •hat to impute It to, tB•
lightnings and tbu11de~boh1 fall more upon
cburchet than upnn c:aatlea and city alone •all..
or any such buildings. Jeney Cutle, indeed, wa
torn with the gun-powder, set on fire by ligh"'
ning (aa Heydelberg bad been, as a pre1age of ti.t
greater evil following). And what wu it but aa
inYilibl1 power tbat there cau1tlll the lord'• child,
Google
'O HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
ihat was govemt'lr, to be blown up, and cut dowit
again on the leads, without hurt! . Angels have-a
1pecial care of infants•.
The church that my grandmother wu born
near, had a ball of 6.re, by lightning, came in at
the belfry.window, and tum'd up the grave-e1Dne1,
alld went out·at the chancel window.
The church that I '1'as baptized"in (High Ercall,
clo1e to the Lotd Newpon'a house) had, in such a
1torm, the leada rolled up, and cast on the back•
aide of the church (and, in the war, wu lenlled
wilh the ground).
The church of Anthony, in Cornwall, near PH-
mouth, was torn by lightning at the time of wor•
1hip, on Whh-Sunday, 1640, and people hurt, and
one• brains struck up to a pillar.
So was used much like, the church of Wlthi-
combe, in "
Devonshire, near the same time.
The church where the present Lord Chamber.
lain, Earl of Dorset and Middlesex, his ancestors
monuments were, was torn by lightning that came
in at the steeple, melted th1r bells, and went up to
the chancel, an<l there tore the monuments in
pieces. I snw pieces of the monuments, that had
some of the golden leiteu, which a truly wort.by
lady brought home, tha& went from Tunbridge-
Watera to see the church.
Many and many churohe1 have been thua tom,
ptopo1·tionahly so much beyond all other build·
ings, especially of stone, that I cannot but think
there is some knowing agent that maketh the
choice, tl.ough ( khow not who, nor wh•-. ·
Except a few hay.ricks, I remember not that;
till this seventy·sixtb ytoar of my age, I ha••
known lightenings to hue bail hu1·ting power on
any buildinits hut churches, sa\·e •ery 1an•ly, and
BDl•ll (as this la.t )"ear at Isli1111ton, it entred a
house, and kill'd a woman and child), nor to hue
t-.i &ny wood but oak ( whicb, i.u uees &w1 bl&i,ld;o
"Cooglc
,.
ii -
APPARITIONS AND WlfCHEs. 91
iPgs, I have •een tom where I dwelt). Bu't11.1Yen
persona hue been kiUed and scorcb'd by it. Ao
eminent knight, that I knew, is common!)'. said .Co
bave been st1nck dead by it in his garden.
VII. Though Porphyry, and Proclue, and Jam-
bllcui, tells us, that bad demons will oft speak foi-
good actions, and against bad, in pride and subtilty
to be thought good, yet it is hard to think that it
ia not rather a good spirit, that 1peaka for some
notable good work, where no by-end is discern.-
able. As that mentioned by Mr. Glanvil aad
Dr. More of Dr. Britton'a wife, whose likenesa ap•
pdared after death to her senant-maid, and showed
ber a p&Tcel of 'land that wae as pan of her bro-
ther's, and told her it belonged to the poor, and
wa1 unjustly alienated from them, and bid her
&ell the possessor, that he must restore it. and
ga".e lier a secret to tell him if be refused t and
upon the angry refueal, when be beard the secret,
he yielded and restored lbe Jud to &ne poor, who
.DOW po~eess it.
Vlll. The said heathen philosophert say, that
they are all bad spirits that seek to be worabipped,
and that to procure ii, they will aeem to be re-
hgious, but will tell many lies for one truth; and
that lying is a chief mark to know them by. By
this I suspect that there are bad spirit• that ceme
to speak for the getting so mauy masses to be eaid
for them to deliter them from Purga&ory, and 1uch
pilgrimages to be perfonned. And those thal
tempt the people to pray to them and to honour
&hem, for their services and prayers for them, of
which their legends abound with instances. De la
Cerda concludeth his book of angels with forms ol
tud1 prayers. And what office hath not such,?
De 111 Cerda, lib. 23, citeth miraculous appearau-
'4 Jie croas, &lld ao !lo m&117 otheu, whicll 11.~
"Cooglc
61 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
to the reader's judgment. As also the Lady Of
Lauretto'a mlraclea, and others such, which manJ
.-it• oL
IK my "Unreuonableness or Infidelity," han"bg
many other . te1timonies of Satan's war again1t
Christ and bis kingdom, I will here mention one.
which elsewhere also I hue mentioned ; and that
ia the cue ofmelancholy, distracted, and enthusi.o
aatick penon1, which clearly proYe a diabolicd
-·L As to melancholy persons. I think rew ml!JI
in England have had more advantage to know
their case than I have had. I know not how it
it oometh to pa11, but in the country, and in Lon-
don, multitudes that are melancholy are •ent by
their friend•, or of themselves come to me, im11-
ginin1.1 that I can coun1el them for soul and body;
so that they han taken up a great part of my tima.
And in almost all I perceiYe, besides tl1eir 1li1e:t1e,
tbat a malignant 1pirit, by adnnlage of it, doth
af!ilate them ince11antly against God and Jetllt
Christ, and against themselves, as he acteth witch.,.
t.o do 111i1chief to others. I know that the diseate
It self is, to the imagination, as disquietin~ u a
dialo.:ation or lameness ia to a joint : bnt there ii
M>me malignant spirit that drivetb it so importo-
llately to mischieC. They are constantly tempted
io telf·tormenting thoughts, to despair, and cry,
"Undone, undone;" and to think that the day of
grace ia put, and that they bav11 committed tb.e
unpardonable ain, aud any thing that may keep
tlieir minds on a tormenting rack.
And they are strongly at last tempted to destro'I'
1hemselwea, IC they aee a knife. they feel as (£
~9' wit.bin them aaid, " Now cut thy throat, or
'" ~Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. Q
tta~ th}'lelf: do it, do it.ti Ifthq go by a waUr, .
they feel u if one urged them prwently to lup
In. And often are they urged Yehemently to hang
ibemaehea, or to cast themselves headlong from
eome high place. And, alu I many do it. Ancl
f\ is 10 in other Janda, u well a1 here. How many
'4oth Plateros, in hia Obaervationa, tell ua oC, that
Dear him, in Helntia, destroyed themaelHa.
And it ia to be noted, tbat unle11 it be God'a
jbdgment Cor eome heinous crime, it ia few o( the
1p1godly rabble that hne any 1uch trouble and
temptation, for Satan holds them futer by pre.
111mptuou1 unbelief, and careleaaneas, and worldly
li>•e, and pleuure: but those that_ will not be eo
decei•ecl, that he cannot torment hereafter, he
woulcl torment here. Alu I diTert penona haYe I
bown thus destroy themseJ.,ee, who I haYe great
nason to belien were u really godly as any that
I hne known.
But Satan's advantage was in their cliNaee and
$11mper. Aa be can tempt a phlegmatick man to
lloth, and a cholerick man to anger, and a aaoguine
man to lust, or sinful pleuure, so ~an he a melao-
&oly man to despair and aelf-deatruction. ud
.,ainstGod.
!. And they are impetuously tempted against
Gbcl and Jesua Christ. They are 10 haunted with
blasphemous thoughts, to think ill of God, or to
4eny Chrilt or the Scripture, tut they haYe no
nsL And these come in at prayer, at sermon, M
llCl'&ment ; and they hue no more power to keep
Chem out, or turn their thoughts another way, al-
most, than tbey have of the thoughts of another•
. J hne oft mar\'elled that the wont are not as
-monly distracted by 1adnea1 H belter people.
But besides the reason before given, there h a pe.
•liar ain that bringeth this of itl nature, and ao
lets the devil in, and that is--over-valuing aome
1rorlclly lhiiig, and then falliiig into discontent an4
"Cooglc
A' BISTORICAL DISCOURSE <YF
Ultpatle11ce at tbe Ion or want or it. He tblr
breaks down hit own hedge or wall. lets in the
trespasser or thier. He that cannot tab Gn<I anrf
heaven as enough ti> content him, is better witbont'
bis idol, than to find content in it. 'Tis meet that
child be left to cry, that will cry if be may noti .
b&ve his will ; and that will hurt him worse than
crvin.i. He that will add to God's corrections the
ieir-t~rment of sinful impatience, shall find Satan
ready to farther his work. God it disobliged when
he is not trusted, And if we consent not that be
do with ua what he will, he will not do what we-
impose upon him. Hi• wisdom, and not our ftnh
and fdlly, must determine of all hit way and·
wm-k.
II. And there have been many enfbuti..Uah·
that Satan hath notorioutly deluded, by pretended
angelical revelation, for some great increase of
linowledge, You may find many ud inatances in
Epipbanius, and other histories of the old he,.·
ticka. And few ages since haTe been without
some 1uch.
The madneaa of 1ohb of Leyden's Mnnwter i.
bela shewed it. What seal and seeming fortitude
did their deceiYing spirit inspire them with, while
by murdera they cryed up their new Zion ! Leo
1uda witnesseth, thlt when the flesh waa pull'd
l1lf Clipperdolling with bot pincers, he ecarae u$-
tered a complaint, or great regard or the pain.
Satan's hand waa notorious in the delU1io111 o(
Duid George in Holland, and or Racket, CoJ>
pinger, and Arthington here.
The honid wickedneai or the Ranters hel'8 pro-
eiaimed him to be their teacher.
When the Quakers ftrst roae here, their eoeie«tea
began like witches, with quaking, and vomililllft
and infecting others with breathing on them, and
1yins ribbon• on their hand1. And their actiona,
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. et
u well as their doctrine, 1hewed their mute•.
When some, as prophesying, walked through the
atreets of cities naked ; and aoqie vainly unde,..
took to raise the dead (as Susan Pienon at Wor-
cester). And usually they disturbed and pub-
lickly reYiled the most godly minister• worse thaa
the most debauched of the r3bble did.
He that would know how manifestly Satan
J'llled such enthusiasts in Germany, may read it a&
large in Beckman's Exercitations, and in the life
of Paracelsus, tellify'd by Opporinus, that lived
with him as his servant, and others that we•
atfrigbted with his drunken rage and Satanical
eonvene.
And how dangerous It ia to desire 1uch eon~rse
with ang01ls and spirits, as God hath not judged
suitable to our condition here in the tlesh, tbe
case of Jacob Bebmen and Dr. Pordage here, and
his society, may tell us. His chief proselyte, com•
panion, and succeasor (whose name I mention not
for the sake of his worthy kindred), condescendell
to open secretIy to me in writing bis judgment, by
which I soon saw that their guide differed much
from the Scripture. One of extraordinary learn-
ing and reputation was a while distracted by going
io them to try their way. Some of my very mud.
e.teemed friends have been distracted, and ove,..
oome with melancholy, by studying Behmen, allll
that way. What Dr. Pordage his doctrine WU.
you may see partly in bis " l:'osthumoua Mystical
Theology," puhlished by .his friend Dr. Hooke11.
Mr. Fowler, of Reading, accused him as a con-
jurer, and lie bath published his defence In folio
(which I may the rather mention, because in it be
hath made nsl! of my name against Mr. Fowler, •
1peaking against me, for our difference in e1plai~
Ing the doctrine of imputed rigliteouaness). In
tbi1 defence, the Doctor confesaeth that the de•R
wu le10 familiar in his houae (where a aocief)'
"Cooglc
t
• . HISTORICAL DISCOURSE 011'
Ji'fed with him that kept their e:lerci1es and bout,1
of singing night and da:v). He (and hi• friends)
pretended that he knew when good ·spirits and
wbeo bad ones were about him, by smells and
f!lllls, and the temper of their sense and apitiw.
And he confessetb, that in bis great room the devil
appeared to him by night in the likeness of a 6er7
dragon, that almost filled the room, and Jong co~
dieted with him. ·Aud that onoe he made on t!Mt
brick wall, over bia chimney, the likeness of a
ooacb drawn by tygera, so deeply impressed, tbae
they were fain to use a piok·n: to out it out of ti»
1-iela. Aud that the like impression was on tbs
glass of his windows, which he could not waah
ouc. But all this be imputed to Everard, that U..
truded into bis society, taking him to be the co.a>
· jurer. And he saith, that when be wa$ gone M
appeared to him in the night, walking in his cha-
ber in boots and spurs. So that diabolical app~
ritioas and open eft'ecta were confesaed by hiJD, u
W. book declareth.
The liosie-Crucians, and aucb &9 addict theDlo
1elvK to the philosopher'• stone, ban some of theai
aeemed to be deluded by some eYil spirit, by t¥
violence of their de.ires, and the blind confi<lence
o{ their e1:pectation1, and the ill means that some
ba•e used. Histories of aucb are too manv to ti.
recited. F:elix Plateros, in bis Observat: lib. i.;
tells us of one of bis familiars, a person of bonollt
and wealth, a baron, and religious, and a.idicted to
good works, that was so &et upon it, that be not
ooly 1a spent hia time and study, but his estate,
Mducing himself and bia family to l'feat poverty,
aod yet would never abate his coofide:ice that he
wu near attaining it; aod though still frustrate,
he was atill near it ; insomuch tbat he laboured
..,ith the magistrates for their grant and power,
that with the gold be made he might build a new
li~e over the ,riv", "'4 Uli&ht b~ild a ,oUq.
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. &7
far the university, &c., and though he died a poor
.man, and left hia children poor, he believed to the
last that he waa near finding out what he aougbt,
had he had longer life.
To such deluded by spirits, I think I may atlcl
·the oomforts of many persons that I have known;
-1iat Jong Jived in doubt of their salvation. neli
de1pair. And when a deceiver hath but drawn
them to change their religion from sound doctrine
Jo some error, they have presently been delivered
from their troubles, aud lived in peace and oond;.
deuce. It cannot be from the nature of the new
doctrines received, for it befals divera that tum ~
contrary doctrines from ea.:h other. Some that
turn Papists, some that tarn Quakers, some.Ana.-
baptists, some Antinomians, some Millenaries, and
are against each other, yet have sudden pee.ie
upon their change. I confess, that the coneeit of
having found out a better way may do much; and
the diversion of their thoughll to dispute may do
much. As Pet. Forestus tells ut of a melancholy
Papist, that, after other means u.00 in Vllio, WGS
at last cured by eager diaputing against the PM"
iestants. But when the persona before ha<l ao
doubt of the doctrines of religion, but only of lbs
eute of their own souls, and when th~ had DO
aoch dispute& to bring them to it but sudden he¥"
ing a seducer, and when it is only false doctrW.
that comfortetb ·them, when 1ound doctrine pro-
lessed, could not, it seemeth to be done by a lying
apirit that comforteth men with evil, u God's
spirit doth with good,
To what aort •hall we rank those that tell men
ol things stolen and lost, and that •hew men the
{Ke of the thief in a glass, aud cause the gonds to
he brought back, who are commonly called whit.a
,witches? We have had 10 n1any credible reports
of such, aa alloweth not reason to doubt· of il.
W~ l lived at Dudley, liodaes, at Se<lgley, ~
,, Cooglc
'8 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OF
miln otr (even where f1moua William Fl'tbier
preacht), waa long and commonly accounted such
a one. And when I lived at Kederminster, one of
my neighboun affirmed, that huing Iris ya111
ltolen, he went to Hodges (ten miles otf'), and be
told him that at auch an hour he should have it
brought home again, and put in 1t the wind01r~
and 10 it was; and, aa I remember, he showed
him the )lf'rson'a face in a glass ; yet I do not
think that Hodges made any known contract yith
the devil, but thought it waa an eft'ect of art.
I Rl\'R, ·in other treatises, named some instmdff·
o< such success of prayer, as hath not been unpro.
fitable to me : I will here mention some of them.
aiid add some more.
Only I will premise this caution to the reader t
1. That it is no certain sign of the innoceucy or ·
tlillctity of the person delivered, that it waa dODe·
by a wonderful manner upon prayer. Nay, it ia
not unusual for the guilt of some great sin to
bring the suft'ering from which by prayer they ue
delivered; and God may hear others for the deo
li'1erance of auch ainnen.
! . Nor is it any certain •iltll of the sanctity ol
tboae whose prayera are so beard (thovgb it be a
very encouraging mercy to them), any more thaa
prophesying, and casting out deYils, and doing
wonderful works in the name of Christ, Matt. vii••
11r11 a proof that the agents were not rej"'4d
9'0rkers of iniquity. It is the honour of God, and
the regard which be hath to the faith and prayera
of the diatl'filed, or others, and of the souls that
he would convince, which th11e and auch like·
~do declare.
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. SO
i &. And I will omit many instances or penone
rileOYered from the jaws or death, just at the hoar
while we haYe been praying for them ; for, though
this be much to me, it will not be so to the unbe-
liner, who will say that it was not from that
au1e, but would haH been if you had not prayed.
And I must confess that 1 hne prayed for the life
t4 mmy a dear friend, whom God hath not reQD-
wred, but taken away. .
4. Nor will I mention any one instance ot the
•-• or my own prayers, or any othere, when I
joined with them, but only of some plain, poor,
hambie, godly penon1, who uted that sort of fer-
'fent prayer which 1ome deride. For I am a Yery
unworthy person my self, in comparison of many
t4 thoie poor, humble, blameless persons, whom I
Chm had the oversight of.
I. In general, I may say, that I haYe dinra
dmea, after long disabling weakne11 ancl pain,
been enabled within a day or two to come to
dwrch again, and go on in my work, when my
poor neighboun ha1'8 1pe.o.t a day in fasting UMt
praJer for me.
U. When at Milbome, in Darbyshire, I ""*'
pen up for dead, by bleeding about an hundred
ad twenty ounces at the noae, after other weall-
- • and bleedings many years ; my fathei: and
mother-in-law dwelling in Shrewsbury, the report
- to them there that I was dead. My moth8"-
ID-law was, by the goYernor and other friends, ex-
horted to bear it patiently. She presently retired
to Heret prayer, where she professeth, ·that a
INmbling and concussion of her body surprizing
lier, she felt that which constrained her to sa)"
what ahe did when she came forth (to her friends)
9'a. " He is not dead, but shall live for farther
aerYica." And hereupon they Mnt a mess111g•
Google
7.Q. .IUSTORJCAL DISCOUME 01
f1111b Shrewsbury to see, who found me eliVll, 111111
brought them the tidings. This was in FP\.ruary1
1646. :My mother-in-law ia yet living,. about
ninety·t\vo years of age; the daughter of SA!
Thomas HunkPs. Two or hPr brothers, Sir Foulke
Hunkes and Sir Henry Hunkf'I, were kao'l'l'lt
10ldie1s for the king, the one go~ernor of Shre1'9-
bury, and the other of Banbury Castle awhile..
She is one that hath spent a great part of her life
in secret prayPr, with great neglect of the tlesh
end world, and longing to die and be with Christ•
which she bath not yet obtained, but will ere
long. (Since the writing of this, dead, at niner,-
U..., in fwl understanding and great holiness.)
. IIL After long pain and weakness, ft'llOllllJ •
Letin book of one Gerhard, A foreign physician, I
found in him, that bis own father had been cured
at some of my distempers (as I then though\), by
4aily swallowing a bullet of purest gold: 1 got.
aoe of t.be weight of a twenty-shilling piece, and,
.wallowed it, but it remained in ml'!; and he.ring
<I a gentleman within twe)Ye miles or me that cWl
the like, and it never pass'd froll) .him, but. Ji.
quickly died, ma1le me take clyRters and purg-.
but nnne of them stirred it. My poor praying
neighbours (not then fearing the canon which
strictly forbiddeth it) set apart a day to fut and
pray for my deliverance; and that morning it
eame away, after many weeks abode .(three or
four), and they spent the rest of the 4ay in the,nb.;
gbiqg.
IV. In my weaknees, being under ph}'9ick lritli'
Dr. Wright, then living in Shrewsbury, there au•
denly rose upon one of the tonsils of my throat •
round tumour, seeming to me aa hard aa a ·bouet
1tnd about as big aa a great peaae, or amall buttolit· -
h.lf out of the deah, and half iD. I (pr~ l•t i&. ·
"Cooglc
APPARJTIONS AND WITCm:& '11
wobld pr0\'41 a cancPr; but the doctor told me i.t
c!id not think 10, but what it was be kne,. not;
but persuaded (hadng first tried dissolving and
dissipating meaua in .-1\in) to qui•t it only with
~rgarisms of hot milk. It in~reased but liltlP1
hut no means altPred it, till, as I remember, al.out
a quarter of a year after, my conscience rep?09ed
me, tbat baring had 10 many great mercies upon
JITayer, I ne•er jl8Ve God tl1e honour or tbanb ol
publickly mentioning them, for fear of eeeming to
Rt'k some glory to my self. Being the next mort>"
i!ll! to preach my lecture, I obeyed my conacience,
f!Dd me.ntioned them in thP words since printed
•d pubiished in the 1econd part of my " Saines'
Ererlasting Rest," being then upon the proor ol
the truth of tl1e Scriptures: I had bef019 con-
stantly felt it, and too oft looked at it in the glue.
Aa soon aa J had preached and spoken tb098
1'0rtl•, I felt no more of it. As I came oul of the
pilpit, 1 put my fingPr in my mouth to feel it, but
could feel nothin!?. I hasted home to the g1-,
llDd saw that there was neither wla, t:el ttatigit1fll,
tllJll cicahis; no cavity, tumour, dis.colouring, nor
any sign ..-here ever it was; and I am 1ure I
neither spit it out, nor awallo..-Pd it; and to the
la9t hoau it seemed as bud as a bone.
V. Richard Cooke, a mercer in Knfftr, was
long a man of a pious, unblameable life, and one
ol the chief of good old Mr. 1ohn Croas (•ince
minister here in Friday-street), his congregation.
'When I came to Kederminster, he removed thither,
..xi took a house the next door to me; wbioh
pr1ned old, dangerous, and 10 ill 11 bargain, as
CNt him into melancholy doubts that he did not
well to leave his habitation. His father be~re
him had long liTed, and at la.t died in distraction.
Taking too m•ch bot waten to comfort him iJl his
Mela•• nature, trouble, and those togjj&J!9J, pre•
, ,Google
fl HISTORICAL DISCOURSE Oll
nlled to hia utter di.traction. He to continued-
lrom 164! to 1646. The best means, by auch as'
were most noted (or curing that diseue, went•
uaed, and all In nin. My neighbours or Kede;..'
minater resolnd not eaaily to giYe OYflr futint'
and prayinlf with him and for him, till be was ~­
.,.ered: di•en dan all aeemed in nin, but at•
last be amendf'd, and bath been reconred (witbou('.
any other remedy) now from 1646 to tbi• presen•
lime, 1678, though not altogether of ao perfect'
ICl'engtb of brain as before, yet of competent u-
dantanding. About a year or two a11:0 I AW' hina1
io London, and I bear he is yet alive and well,.
16'8. '
VI. Thomas Giles, the 100 of Mr. Giles, ot
Astley, one of the then committee in Worceste..
nire, 11'&9 sent to be an apprentice in Worceat~
After a fever (u they told me), be fell ioto *'
violent epilepsie: after much phvsick in Worcestet,'
111d opening bis bead, and all in· nin, bis mothef"
took him home to her in Kederminster, where; beo
ing a widow, 1be came to sojourn; purpoaely tor
the oompany of godly people there. Mr. Jack5°'
die physician of the town, my dear and faitbfGI•
ltiend, now (1678) a physician in· Shrewabury,
1111d I consulting, we used in •ain what means -
oould. His fits were sometimes twice or thrice
a day. We were fain to put a key into hia moutll·
lleet he should bite oll' his tongue. A:t lasi, tht
for•aid praying persona resolved to try the olll
remedy of fasting and praying till he was recovered.
The first day they (ound no success. As I ,....
member, it was the second day, while they wert
together praying, he was suddenly cured; and. u
hi1 mother and they that dwelt with him told me;
had never ·one fit since. Hereupon bis mO&bef
bound him apprentice to Mr. John Allen. an he<+
_, •pothecar7 iD Kederminater, whom he NrM
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES, 73
IJTeB years, and i1 now an apothecary in Ststf'ord,
AnC'e dead ; llfr. Allen, the physician, and almost
llll that prayed for him, being yet alive, I ,,,..
present •t none of all the1e daya my aelf. If yo11
•k me, Why !-1. My weakneaa, and my publick
work, much hindred me. 2. I was worse ,than
tltey, and had not their faith, and fervency, and
patience ; and because we have no absolute prc-
mi.e of 1ucb deliverances, I was afraid lest if we
futed and prayed so long as they resolved to do,
~would have turned to aome reproach or discou-
r,asement if we did not prevail. 3. But I have
ioyned with them more than once, when we hue,
to our great eneot1ragement, preY,
ailed. But thoMt
inataucea I promised to pretermit.
I h&Ye read and beard of several persons that
:bPe bad noticK by revelation when they shllnid
die. I will give here but one instance of an u-
cellent young man, Mr. Tyro; but I must confe99'
taat one of his acquaintance affirmed to me, that
hM'ing been,formerly of a jocund, merry temper,
lul' became 10 very serious in religion, and so fer-
•ent,a preacher in Ongar, and so zealous for hia
-n and other men'i salvation, that he thought
melancholy might deceive hia imagination 'II& to
the voice he wu confident he heard. I lay no
peat 1tres1 on,the instance, but he professed the
contrary himself; and Mr. Brand e:1.tol1 him, and
Colonel Rich and his lady did both belieYe him :
and Mr. Davis telling me bow common the fore~
••rnings of death are in their country, maketh it
tlae 'eatier to me to believe the words of so good
and aober a man u Mr. Tyro.
In 1umm, I verily belie\'e that I haYe been kept
~ive tbeae forty yean, but notably theae tbirty-
~lat, by the prayers of many better than mv lt'I(
preniliq wkh God, tluoagh the intercession llf,
ar grea& Kedia&«, '
•
,, Google
."" '
Joi· HISTORICAL DISOOURSE OP·
Colo1Vl Rich, ofStOtldon Hall, in Euez, hil Ldt~
in relation to Mf'. Tyf'O; togethM with hi1 Lq..
die'1 relating to the 1ame pet'IOfl.
SIR,
Our neighbour, Mr. Halt, informing your
desire to know from my self and wife the relatioa
of a providence, more th1111 ordinary, with which
Mr. Tyro was exercised before he came a aick-re•
sident under my roof, I must therefore refer you
to tbe account, which my wife herewith gives you,
the truth whereof I am fully aatis6ed, which was
from ?oh. Tyro's own mouth to her only, when I
was at London, the narrative of which ahe gue me
at large tlie same night I returned home, though I
was confirmed in my belief of it by some discourse
I had with him afterwards, tluring his sickneas, be-·
fore which be and I peruaed several of your
t,ractates made publick, with a joynt-pleasing ap-
probation, especially that which is intituled " The
Ddug Thoughts ;" also another, .:t>iz. " The Cru.
cifdng the World by the Croaa of Christ,'' we
having a mutual satisfaction in each other's con-
verae: his natural parts, gifts. and grace to,e-
tloer, with his holy life, constrained my desire and
"udeavours to accommodate him to bis last breath,
for ( found him a true disciple of Christ our Lorll
and Master, in .whom I would also be found.
Sir,
Your affectionate SNvant
S1,:1111on Hall, near Oitgar in
Emz, May 16, 1691.
NATH. R1c11.
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. '13
The Lady Rich'• Lettn,
Sir,
. IN obedience to your deaire by Mr, Hatt,
to hue it under my band what he told you of
Mr. Tyro, who wa1 aent by Mr. Brand, at Bishop'•
Hall, near London, to preach at Ongar in E11n,
and to prevent mistakes, I think lit, in order to
your satisfaction, to give you this account of him,
~and therein take occaaion to let you know how
peat an honour and eateem he had for vou. Sir,
I bf.lieve, had you known him, you ,.,;,uld have
rank'd him among those worthies that you have
lu•lp'd to beano, for he fullowed you as you follow
Christ. About seven weeks before hia death,
when there was hope of recovery, .he told me he
bad something to tell me that he had not imparted
to any body, and expreaaed it thus :-When 1 wa.a
one evPning returning to my lodging, then at
Onitar, from this bouse, being then in a good de-
gree of health, and in a serious frame meditating
by the way, I hP.ard a voice say, You shall die,
and not pass your five-and-thirtieth year of age:
which voice a.atoniabed me 11reatly, and looking
iound about me, seeing no body, put me into
great con•temation and sweat all over me, such as
I never felt (though . I dare not compare it to
iJrops of blood), yet 1 cannot expreu how dreadful
it was. You know, Madam, my principles, and
that I am no enthusiast, and bow cautious I am as
to revelation.. But I am1aure taia wa.a no melan-
choly fancy, but an auricular voice, After I bad
a little l'eco\'ered myself, I begg'd of God to dis-
eonr to me if this were from him, or a delusion
from Satan, but still. the impreaaion remained,
though 1 sought God by prayer moat part of that
night ; and you may remember, in iny next Tiait,
I told you I 1hould di4. shortl1, but I did not tell
"Cooglc
ff. HISTORICAL DISCOURSE op•
you of the •oice I heard. And then he added,
Thia ia my be-and-thirtieth year of age, in July
nest I thall be 10 old. And many other e:i:pres•
1ioo1 he addfd, '&'bich it too much for a lettl'r, but
be died in Jaouarv 1630. I cannot omit, Sir, to·
let }'Oil know ho'&' much hi' deaired the happinest
of a pelaooal connrse with you ; though he did
write to you formerly, '&'hen he was under great
trouble of eontcience, and yon '&'ere pleaaed td
'&'rite to him again, though )\is name was unkno'&'ti
to you, and God mlde you instrumental to hia
relief and comfort. He told me, '&'heneTer be
heard you preach ti.ere wu auch a presence of God
accompanied your ministry, that he felt both fear,
and treinbling, and joy poueu him at once. He
reading some book of yours daily whilst he wu in
my house, especially your " Dying Thoughts,"
'&'bich on bis death-bed he sent, u the best token
of his lo.e, to his schoolmaster at Hackney, Mr.
Odely, and shed many tears upon it, calling it
IM nwt atld dear companion of hit life, charging .
the measenger to bid his muter read it, and pre•
pare to follow him 1hortly.
I beg your pardon for thia loog trouble. I could
do no leaa than express this kindness to the dHd;
who yet •peaks out your great '&'orth to me, d~
airing your p.-.yers that his lou to 10 dark a comer
u oun ia may be sanctified. And that your life
may be prolong'd in time, and you may haTe a
full reward in eternity, ia the prayer of,
Sir,
Your obliged and
Alt'ectiooate Senaot,
ELIZ, R1c:11.
Stowdon Hall, Mm' Ongar i•
&uz, M<Jf 13, 1691.
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. n
_ But it ia not my buaine11 to mention all tbinp
that are atrange and unuaual, but 1uch M proYe
the operation• of spirit1. Lycosthenea de Pro-
di~iis nl Mirabilibu1 will tell you in folio of
wonders•
.· There are many thing• that ignorance cauteth
multitudea to take for prodisi•. I haH had
many discreet friends that hne been affrighted
with the noise called a death-,..tch, wher- I
have 1ince, near 1h,eescore years ago, oft fmand by
trial, that it i1 a noise made upon paper by a little
nimble running worm, just like a louse, but whiter
and quickl>r; and it i1 most usually behind a
paper pasted to a wall, eapecially to wainscot ;
and is rarely, if enr, heard but in the heat of
1•1mmer.
But who can deny it to be a prodigy which ia
recorded by Melch. Adamu1, or a great and good
man, who had a clock-watch that had layen in a
c;heat many years unused; ind when he lay dying,
at eleven-a-clock, of it self, io that ch•t, it 1truck
elAven in the hearing of maoy.
Because many have spoken and written or a
thorn at Glastonbury, in Sommertahire, tW
flowreth just on Chriatmus-day, I tbooght it a
thing worthy my best enquiries. And lest men
proceed to think that there ia more in it than
there i1, I anues these following letters from cre-
dible person• that were well koown in the country.
Mr. William Thom11.1'1 uttl!'r conc1ming th1 Glal~
lo• Thom ; togetMr with l1Do othl!'r Ettdo1«l
,Lttt,,.,to tlie '""'" purpoie.
Sir,
UNDElllTAl'IDINO bv my inn your de.ire
to enquire abou1 Glaston Tii11ni, 1 did lmmedi•
, ,Google
'11 . RISTORICAL DISCOURSE 01"
ate\y (being not able to travel my self in sui;\l •
season) send to such as I thought might beat in-
form mt>, whose information you hue in the twcl
inelosed letters ; the one from the minister or
Glut~n, the other frnm Mr. Chet'll'ind, pastor at
Wella, both of them understanding and godlf
men. I ·wu not aatiafied with Mr. Winney'a let•
ter, because he wrote not of the graft' taken from
this thorn, now growing, when the old thorn_ is
'one. Something it aeems there was in the nature
of the plant, for that graft' shoots forth mueh
tooner than any other thorn, and about that timt>,
though it do not the feat in blossoming just on the
day, but after it, which may be because the soil is
not so suitable to it, u that was to the other. I
1hould have thought this had been all the wonder,
t>i.i. the natural, rare, and rath blooming- of that
thorn, !?Ot perhaps from foreign parts, made (by
Fame) to cry Christmass; but that the inform&•
tion in the first letter (and testimony) is 10 puoo-
tual, that it seems to evince more. But, howso-
ever, that which we call Chriatmass-day is not to
gain its estimation from such a providence, but
from scripture, from reason, at leut from a due
d<!mon1tratioo that that wu, indeed, the day of
Christ's birth, which, perhaps, nothing will prove,
unless it be the thorn. I speak not against the
custom of the church in remembring the birth of
Christ, though I conceive Christ's own day ia·
better for it tt.an any other-I mean the Lord's
Day, unto which, when men's days be added, the
I.ord's Day, and the Lord of tliat day, suffer by
their jostling with it. A subordination will noi.
serve, but it arheth to a co-ordination and compe-
tition, yea, a prelation.
But that I 1peak of is, t11e nobilitating o( an
uncertain day, upon insufficient evidence. If I
ahould aar, the thnrn 1night 10 blossom (by Pro-
1'idence) as a just hardening of the ~ilfully super•
"Cooglc
A'PPARITIONS AND WITCHES. rl
ltttious (a great part or whose r~ligion it is to put
a crown upon Chrietmass-day, caring little for
Christ), or as a trial of the truly conscientious, ttl
He whether they will build their religion UJ>On a
famous thorn; and be so tamed by it as to close
widl the euperstition and profaneness of that time.
I say, if I should speak thus, it might be thought
a paradox, and yet I remember your lights in
Wales, which thew (I think) what God gives the
devil leave to do. I shall content myself therefore
with aending you the relation, and leave you·and
others (better ilble than my self). to consider of it.
Only this I may say, that such a providential
rarity is too low a thing to put a divinity upon
that day: and yet to make it a divine testimony
is, I think, the meaning of thoseo that are willin~
to make the most of it-ldo not sav the beat or it,
With all loTing and thankful respects,
I re8t, your obli~ed
Friencl·and Brother,
Oblty, WILL. THOMAS,
.F~b. 29, 16~!>.
Hr. Jahn Chdwind'1 Encloltcl Lttttr.
Reverend and much Honoured Sir,
IN answer to your letter, the~e are to in·
~rm you, that the old thorn in the times of the
war was rooted up, and is utterly gone; and as for
Mr. Gallop's graft', I ha•e enquired of a gentlcm1u1
that waa hie patient, and live<I dinra years in
Mr. Gallop'• house, and observed the budding and
blosaoming of it,· who informed me that it doth
ahoot forth and bud and blossom near about that
&ime, but not. upon·the day, but in some space
"Cooglc
It BISTORIC4L DISO()mt.'J Of
after it, much rather tbui otlier t~ uaally de.
Thi1 i1 all the account I can giye you of it. I ha.,..
tu> more to add, but mine and my wif,.'1 kind..a
re~Gt• to your sell aud good wiCe, ancl that I -
Your most respectful Friend,
WeU., Jou CH&TWllfD.
F~. 25, 1659.
Worthy Sir,
· REAL love and tha~a preacribed, Ae.
These are to acquaint you, that I reeeivod a leU•
from you, wherein Mr. Thomu'a requeat to you it,
that the exactest and mo1t punctual ICCOunt ot
the usual story of the blossomii!g oC Glastonbury
tho~ on Cbri1tmaa-day might be found out. I
ba,.e upon your reque1t 1earched.mqre of it tliaa
ever I thought to trouble my self to do, and have
conversed with the mott ancient that I knew, ancl
•as directed to, and think those that are credible,
thf'y ofl'er to aver it upon oath •hat they tell me.
Thus one ancient man tel11 me, that he bath gone
en the EH to it; and he bath Cound it like anot\\er
d,..d thorn, without any blosaom, or likelihood to
have a sudden forwardn- to it, only •ome evi·
dence of the appearance of the breaking out tlae
bud1, and but an appearance percei•able; and la•
bAth gone on Chri1tma1-day, and found the blo..
Mma as though it was the midst of May, aad
gathered them, and 1ent th~ many milea, 1,nd
bad good reward1. Thia the man will clepoae
upon hia oath. At the ~ame th,ne thi1 man waa at
my h°"5e, there came occuion-1ly ID . . . .
" Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. •t
woman, a neighbour, whose testimony I believe
6t to be receind, who earneatly affirmed this,
that in the time of Queen Anne ah Jived with one
Sir Tho. Hughes. in Wells, a justice of peace, ,..ho
purposely sent hia men (two of them) to know the
truth, that he might aatisfie any that_might make
enquiry; and on tbe. Eve, towards night, they
foun<1 it as another thorn, only th" breaking out
or the beginning or buds; and Ataying in Glaston-
bury all night, to observe, aa near as might be, the
time when they began to sprout forth into a per.
feet blossom, they have gone again toward the
tum of the night, and have found the perfect blos-
som about two or three of the clock, ao that at
morning they ban returned to their muter with
them, which she told me she aaw when they
brought it home. Anj) another man tells me the
same story aa the first, only with this nriation ;.....,.
·. Hia father (and godfather living at Bath) went the
Eve's eve, and found nothing but buds, and on
Cbristmu-day in the morning found the blosson1s,
and bis father sent them to Bath to his godfather,
because he went thither home to keep his Christ-
.mas. And a woman at the same time told me,
something much like the second, that she hath
gone the En, late at night, and with a lantb.orn
and candle with her company, stayed (our hours,
to see if it might be the manner of the •prouting
_
out of it ; and in that apace aaw that it blossomed,
the green boughs the length of half the fore fir.ger
to the middle joyat. What Mr. GaDop's graft of
this old tree tlotb, I shall leave you to him to be
certified• . Both our Iona to your self and @ood
wife. 1Mr. Stuka and his wife deair.ing one favour
in the close, that you would be pleased to take
pains to begin our lecture the next Tuesday. l
·.ban_not bad but one auistant, I think, this aeven
m eight.weeks. I shall b11 •llt•nt myself. l in.-
I: ~
"Cooglc
4t HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OJI'
tend, iC please God, to be at Bristol fair, where I
ha~• aome busineas, and pray aend me word oC it.
\hat I may lie aasnred I reat,
Youn, in all bonds of lo.e,
Glattcn, SAii. Wuuni:Y.
Jan. 21, 1659.
I have oil wonder'd at the commonly belined
cit't of the kings of England and Prance to heal the
atruma. AII my doubt bath atill been of the
matter of Cact, whether it be such a real gift 0£
heeling, or not; for if it be, I will not be so bold
as to ask God a reason oC It, or why be giveth it
to these kings rather than to others. Nor will I
dishonour bis gift u iC it were not his, because I
know not his reason ; no more than Christ did the
miracle done at the pool ·in Jerusalem, upon the
angel's moving the water; or, with Naamau, say,
" Are not Abanah and Pbarphar u good water as
Jordan T" I hHe long enquired of all the phy-
sicians, and others that I could, of the reality oC
the success; whether it be not the gold, the
change of air, or the conceit ; and I never beard so
111ucb u to put me past all doubt. But many
«edible physicians say, as Mr. Wiaeman (a chi-
rurgeon that had much opportunity of knowing)
doth in his Book of Chinargery, " That though
all are not cured, y~t more are cured by it than
by all the physicians in England."
I know the true original of it also, and its occa-
s.i,on, ia much in the dark ; but I lene this to
other men's enquiry: only I say, if the matter of
fact prove certain, there can be no great doabt but
it proveth the governing agency of Invisible, in•
teliectual powers.
If it be miraculous, it aeemeth to be entailed on
tbe kingdoma of England and France, rather tbaa
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. II
to be any approbation of the religion or piety or
the king•; because, if any hue thi1 gift, kiop of
cootrary religion• hue it,• and the wont ae well
a• the beet, and u1urpere u well a1 rightful kings.
And I hear or DO other that pretend to it, but the
kin)tl of England and France; and will the king of
Pranee take it for his glory, to heal a few penons
of a 1ore, and to kill many thouaand innocenla by
the aword, and burn their citi81.
Mr. EJllLIN,t a worthy preacher in Dublin,
huing told me this by word of mouth, I desired
him to 1end it, 1ullicieotlyattested; which he dod1
as followeth :-
Mr. Emlia'i Letter, concerning mi Apparitio'A al
Belja.lt, in [yelancl.
Renrend Sir,
I HAVE been very uneasie to think that I
should 10 Jong delay the an1wer of your desire
• " I retlected upon the perrormances of king
Pyrrhue, who cured diseaaea with bi1 finger; 10
did Vespuian cure two by touching them, ae both
Tacitua and Suetonius avow; 10 it has not ~en
doubted that the kinga of England and France
ha.e generally cured the king's etil. In Turkey,
alao, and Afrique, they have person• of the like
f.!Ualiticatiooa, which they boast to ban recei•ed
from the favour of their prophet, Mahomet. But
11ndoubtedly God hath permitted all religions to
have tb9ir real miracle1, that men may learn to try
mit-aelu by the truth, and not tnAth by miracle1."
-A-ftl of Greotarick'1 C•r•1, by Dr. S""1H,
4to. 1666.
t Mr. Emlin wu an eminent noncooformillt
Google
8" HISTORICAL DISCOtmSE <JP
about the af'air related underneath. The diatanee
of the plaee in which it was tramacted, with the
•lowness of my correspondent in replies, bub
made me uncapable of ,iving you so full and
·quick satisfaction u might else hne been. AU
that I can relate at prf!Bent ii brielly this, 11i.s.
There huing been a long contest between
I .emuel Matthews, archdeacon of the countv of
Down, and Claudius Gilbert, minister of Belfast,
ahout their ri~ht to Drumbeg, a small parish
within four miles of Belfast, it proved very
troublesome to the pari•hioners, who generally paid
their dues to Mr. Gilbert, the incumbent in pos·
sesaion ; but the archdeacon claimed the same to
l>e paid to him also, for which he procured a
warrant; and in the esecution of it by his servants,
at the house of one Charles Loftin, one of the
parialoionen:, they offered some violence to his
wife, who refused entrance to them, who died
within a few weeks after the injury received; but
st,e being otherwise an infirm woman, little notice
was taken of her death, till some time after, by her
•t• ange appearance to one Thomas Donelaou (•
spPctator of the violence done to lier). She af·
frighted him into a prosecution of Robert Eccle·
son, the criminal. She appeared divers times, but
chiefty uron one Lord's-day evening, when abe
divine, but much penec\1red by the high chureh
paoty, a• well as by 1ome of his Presbyterian
brethren, for uowing what are called rational, or
anti-trinitarian, pdriciples; he was, however, fa-
Toured by Dr. Thos. Tennison, then arcbbiahop
of Canterbury, and honoured with the friendship
nf Dr. Samuel Clarke. "He was (says the G.rtt.,,.ol
Biograph11), a m•n of •trong parts, and a clear way
nf thinking, and abounded in all moral and re-
ligious gracet.''
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 85
(etch'd him, with a strange force, out of his ho11ae,
into the yard, and fields adjacent. Before her Issi
coming (for she did 10 three times that. day)
M\'eral neighbours 'were called in, to whom he
11an notice that she wa• again coming, and becken'd
him to come out; upon which they went to abut
the door, but he forbad it, saying, that she 1011ked
with a terrihle aspect upon him, when they oft"ered
it. But bis friends laid hold on him, and embraced
him, that he might not again go out; notlfith-
atanding which (a plain evidence of some invisible
power), he was drawn out of I heir bands in a sur•
prizing manner, and carried abroad into the field
and yard, u ltefore, she charging him tu prosecute
justice; which voice, as also Donelson'$ reply, the
people heard, though they saw no shape. There
are many witnesses of this yet alive, particularly
Sarah, the wife of Charles Loftin, son to the de-
ceased woman; and one William Holyday and bis
wife, &c.
Upon this, tbe said Donehoo deposed what he
knew of tht> aforesaid vioience, before Mr. Randal
Brice, a neiiihbour-justice, and confirmed all at the
usizes of Down, in the year 1685 (aa I remember),
where the several witnesses were heard and sworn,
and thf'ir examinations were entr.d into the re-
cords of that a.•size•, to the amazement and satis-
faetion of all the country, and of the judges, whom
I ha•e heard speak of it at that time with much
wonder; insomuch that the said Eccleson hardly
escaped with his life, but was burnt in thf' hand.
The said Donelson ia yet living in the tame
place, with the other witnes&e1.
I could lurn many more circumstances, but that
you are in haste; and all this I heard spoken of
myself, with universal amaze111ent, at the time
when transacted, living in Belfast at that time;
a11d 1 •hould not have b<en beholden to an7 to
"Cooglc
86 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP.
ba•e belined this relation, that had been there.
and at the trial at Down.
With Mr. Bois's re1pect1,
I remain,
A Renrencer oryou,
THO. EKLl!f.
IIAVJNO reeeired from Mr. Gilbert, the reverend
mini•ter of the place, a narrative of the strange
story near Belfast, I will insert bi1 letter.
Mr. Gilbn-1'1 LetUr concerning the Apparitio• Maf'
B~lfa1t, ia Irdattd.
Dear Sir,
Youa last, ofJuly the 6th, I receind; and
ainee that, I have again and again enquired farther
into the business of the apparition of Magdalea
Loftin, which died about Novemb. I, 1685, of the
hurt she had received a mouth before. And she
appeared to Thomas Donelson, a neighbour, four
weeks after her death, in the bouae of Willit.111
Holiday, near her own house. There were then
prPsent in the said house, William Holiday, and
Helen bis wjfe; as also Sarah Lofnam, daughter•
in-law to the said defunct ; and some sernnt1 and
children in the house, besides Charles Loftin and
Helen Loftin, children to the said defunct, which
are now all alive ; and most of them were sum•
mooed to the following aasizea at Downe Patrick,
and there deposed solemnly before the bench the
s.everal circumata,ntiala of the aaid apparition.
Which apparition was thrice rPpeated, in the aame
evening, to the aaid Thomas Donelson; and holf
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. i/
lit.waa horribly frighted thereby, and •ioleatly
drawn out or the said houae, before their eyes,
though they struggled hard to detain him; and
that he was carried up and down, over neighbour•
ing hedges and ditches ; and that her last words to
him were, " Th•t she would trouble him no more,
ir be did faithrully prosecute the cause of her
death; which ahe still ascribe<\ to the blowa which
she receind from the aaid R. Eccleston and K.
Higgison."
The said Thomas Donelson did accordin11ly re-
pair to his iandlord, the next jus~ice, !\fr. Randal
Brice; who brought their several examinations to
Sir William Franklin, in Belfast Castle, where also
WU present the Earl or Longford; which said
depositions were carried to Dublin, and there re-
commended to the special care of Judge John Lin-
don, who was to come down the next assizes of
Downe. And the said trial and examination or
witnesses were then mannaged at the said assizes
by J.an1e1 Macartny, counsellor, in the behalf of
Charles LoOin, the plaintitf', to the admiration of
all the bench, and <>f the company there, in my
sight and audience. So that the matter was no•
toriously known and believed through the whole
country. Nor was there any cause of suspecting
.-ny fraud therein, they being all plain, honest
neighbours, well knowu to me, and my parishoners,
in the parish ofDruonbeg, in the county of Downe,
and in the province of Ulster.
1 rest,
Your co1dially atf'ectionate,
Be!fall, CL, GIUERT.
~u:. 24, 1691.
"Cooglc
IS HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OF .
A .D1iblin l•utanee, aJtelted by llfr. Daniel
Williamt,• ROto mLondon.
ABOUT the year 1678, I knew a young woman,
who was niece .to Alderman Arundel, in Dublin.
In her said uncle's house she was pursued with
very terrible noises; as by violent stroaks on the
wainscots and chests, in what chambers she fre-
\ quented.
The blows were beard throughout the house;
and were 10 troublesome, as to occasion the re-
moval of the young woman to an house near Smith·
field, in Dublin, not without hopes that the dis•
turbance might thereby cease; but the noise pur-
sued her thither, and was no more .beard in her
former dwelling.
• Mr. Williams was born at Wrexham, in North
Wales, but passed the greater part of his life in
Ireland. He was twenty years pastor to a congre-
gation in Wood-street, Dublin. Durlng the Irish
trouble., he came to England, and was here fre-
quently consulted on Irish a1fairs by Kin(! William.
On the death of the celebrated Richard Baxter, in
1691, by whom he was greatly esteemed, he suc-
ceeded him as one of the preM:hers of the Pinner's
Hall lecture; he bad, about the same time, the
degree of D.D. conferred on him, by the univera~
tie. both of Edinburgh and Glasgow. He was a
munificent benefactor to numerous learned and
charitable societies ; but is beit known a U.e
founder of thf' library in Red Cross-street, Crip-
plegate. Here the doctor's own books were de-
poaited, at' well as the curious collection of Dr.
:Bates, purchased by Dr. Williams for the purpou,
at an expense of 5001.-Cl1almer$'1 BiovapJ.ical
Dictionary.
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCBU. 8t
Here ahe cnntinued as long as the owneT of that
hnuse would bear the resort of people, and terrour
of those Rudden and frequent claps.
From this place ahe was remo-red to a little
house in Patrick-street, near the gate. Here she
met with the same exercise, and the noiae was,
generally about two-a-clock in the morning, gTeater
than at other timH,
Sereral nights were apent in prayer with 'her, by
mini•tera, u Mr. Cox, Dr. Roles, Mr. Cbamben,
lllr. Ken, &e., who all, with many othen, usured
me, th<'y heard the said blows in the room where
they prayed, &ometimet on a great chest there,
aometimes on the w•ll, &:c.
Mr. Chambers and Mr. Keya were employed
there the night before I had promised to be with
her.
The next night, Mr. Cox hning oQ heard the
said noises, and oft prayed with the woman, waa
desirous to accompany me. There were many
people (as uaual) Ht up with us ; I preached
from Heb. 2, 18, and contriHd to be at
prayer at that time when the noise 111ed to be
greatl'st.
When I was at pt"&yer, the woman, kneeling by
me, catched Yinlently at my arm, and afterwards
tnld u•, she saw a terrible sight; but h pleued
God, there was no noiu at all. And from that
time, God graciously freed her from all that dia-
turbanee.
I examined thi• peraon, and could find nothinl
in her circum1tance1 fit to induce one to any aatia•
fartory jud11ment of her cue.
These noiset luted about th1ee montha, and she
was much enfeebled in body, and almost diatracted
therehy ; but aoon reconred upon the removal
thereof.
Attested by me,
D.t.JillU, WILUUll.
, ,Googl~
to HlSTORlCAL DISCOURSE OY
THE CONCLUSION'.
Concmii1tg .1bgeli.
W HIU I consider these unquestioable evi<lences or
tbe certainty of spirits, and how much they have to
do with men, I cannot but think that we have al<o
much to do with them : with the bad, to resist
tbem as our enemies, and the enemies of the Gos·
pel, and the church of God, against whom we must
eontinually watch and pray, lest we fall ioto their
temptations; and with the good, that we may
'lie meet for their prese"iilg and comforting
ministry. ·
But in alil our histories it i~ observablei that bad
spirits' apparitions and actions are far more fre-
qu~nt, and more sensible than good ones ; which
may, perhaps, to some seem strange. Concerning.
w~aich I con•ider :-
h 'llhat corporeal crassitnde is an aliasement;
and therefore fittest for the more ignoble sort ot
spirits:· we that dwell here in bodies, are of a
lower ordPr thao those of the more high and in•
Ti•ible regions.
2. And the bad· spirits, as they ha•e a ba~er
consistence,baYe 'also a· n1ore·base and terrene in•
clination. And therefore it is the less wonder, that
thev mind matters of monev and lands; Md no
doubt but the souls of wickej men carry with them
much of the vicious habits in which they lived
liere, that i•, of covetou<ness aod revenge. And
they that tell us, that such as Dives retain no love
to their brethrt'n on earth, speak more than they
can prove, and are not so credible as Christ. that
aeemeth to say to the contrary. Some make a
at&te of departed 1ouls, -go~d a id bad, out of their
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AMD WITCH'ES. 't
ewn inventions, which it1a nry likely death will
confute. •
3. Aqd it is far greater things than t'isible ap-
pearances that w" constantly receive from angela,-
inore suitable to their nature and dignity, and to
our good. Some men ban long laboured to auain
a visible or sensible communion with them, and
think they bave attl\ined it; but while they pre.-
sumptuously desire to penert the order of Gocl's
household. and go..-ernment, it is no wonder if, in-
stead of angels, they converse with devils that are
transformed into seeming ang"ls of 1igbt, that, by
delusion, they may tranaform such men into minis•
ters of unrighteousness.
It is a doleful instance of the eft'ect or a perverse
kind of opposition to Popery, and running from
one extream to another, to note how little sense
moat Protestants shew of the 11reat benefits that
we receive by angels. How seldom we bear them;
in publick or private, give thank~ to God for their
ministry and helps? and more seldom pray for it?
When hear we any ministers teach believers what
Jove and what thanks they owe to angels? where-
as the excellency and holine11s of their natures ·
obligeth ns to love them, and their love and care
of us bespeaketh thankfulness; yea, we have
teachers that would perswade men that thi~ sa-
TOUreth of Poper~-, and doth derogate from .Christ;.
and yet, if the people lo\·e, and honour, and main-
tain them, they take this to be no derogation.
from Christ : as if the>J were more amiable than
angels, or Christ may not use the ministry of
angels as well as their's. The Lord pitty the dis-
tracted. divided societies of Christians, who, in all
countries, are fallen into uncharitable sects, that,
on pretence of 1a.·ing the truth, and the church
lrom the erronrs of each other, do corrupt both by
the addition of contrary errours; so that it'• hard
to find out many errourt of Popery, or ancient
"Cooglc
92 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
hft'eaie, which bath not been aYOided by conbuy
raulta, in the conuption of doctrine, charity, or
concord.
Devils ·ban a greater game to play, inviaibly,
than by apparitions. 0 happy world! ir th"Y did
not dn a hundred thousand times more hurt by
the baits of pleasure, lust, and honour, and by
prid.., and love of money, and sensuality, thall
they do by wi1cbes ! 0 ! that they did not more
dan11erously haunt the houses and 1nuls of lords,
knighh, gentlemen, and lustful youths I Who
can conjure them out of univenities and pulpits,
011t of a malignant, sclanderoua clergy and laity,
out of worldly, self-seeking, carnal men f
If the devil can get people (perhapa Jorda and
ladies) to spend the day (their precious hours) iu
cards and dice, and feastings, and stage plays, and
muks, and musick, and perhaps filthy h1&t, be
will let you say your prayera at night, and cry God
mercy, and perhaps tell him that you repent, that
you may sin on the more boldly the next day.
And it's like he will provide you a.ghostly father,
as had aa your selves, that ahall give you the
•sacrament as a 5ealed pardon, and pronounce yoll
absolYed, and that as in the name of Christ.
All these eft'ecta of devils the world abounda
with, but the eft'ecta of angels are observed but by
nry few. Becauae even u the Sadduces think
that all these vices and confusions are only the
ell'ecb of men's own pravity, and not oC devils, not
knowing tl1at all such births b.,.e a Cather and a
mother (the devil and men's own hearts), ao mott
good peopl<> look so much to God and to ministen
in all that is done on th•m, that they take little
notice of angels, that are God's greater minister.,
u if they had little to do with ua.
By this, 1. We give not to God the due honour
of the order of hia works. 2. We are guilty of
unriabteousoeaa, in clen,-iog tlaeir due loYe au4
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 93
irratitude to 1uch noble agents. 3 We Jose the
comfortable remembrance of our own communion
with them. 4. We lose some helps to a heavenly
niind and convenation, when, as it would make the
thoughts of heaven more familiar and pleasant to
as, to think of auch a holy and amiable society,
and would make ua the willinger to die.
A1 to them that aay, that it is enough to know
that Christ ia all to u•, and we must take heed of
aacribing any thing to creatures, I answer, ia
Christ the lesa all to us, for giving us his mercies!
for giving UI the ministry of angels! la he the
lesa all to us, for gi•ing gifts to men, for giving
comforters and merciful relievers to the poor?
for giving to children the love and care uf parenta?
or, for giving men good princes and magistrates to
rule them 1 or, for giving them soldiers lo fight
for them 1 or, for giving you ministers to teach
you 1 who more praiseth their teachers, than such
objectors? Will you be unthankful to your ben~­
factors, for fear of ascribing to creatures T Will
you not praiae a godly man above a wicked ?
Will you not praise and admire the glory of the
1un and stars, and the frame of heaven and earth,
for fear of ascribing to creatures 1 ls the praising
of a work a wrong to the workman?
Indeed this agreeth with their doctrine, who,
.because Paul counted all his Mossical legal righ-
'teousne11 a1 Ion or dung, in comparison of the
righteousness that God gave him in and by Christ,
do therefore say, that we must count all that righ•
teousneu as dung, which Christ himself worketh
in us by hie Spirit, eYen faith itself, which i1 im-
puted, or reckoned, to us for righteouaness. This
enticeth men to be out of love with Chrietian
righteou1ne11, when Christ bath made it our own,
jf it be no better than dung; and to fear that some
1u'ch men have no better. But they 11y, theJ ac•
coliat faith, 111d !OT• to Chri1t, to be clung, only as
Google
94 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE o•
to justification; as if God did not make all m~
juat, whom he justifieth by esteem and sentence;
or, a.s if that were righteou,ness, that doth in no
part or degree make a man righteous; or, as if
any but Christians, as such, are justified; or anr
man were a Christian before be accepteth Christ
by a loving and thankful consent or trust, as hia
Saviour and his teacher, and his Lord and ruler.
But this is a digression, which men's talk against
lll!cribing to angels led me to.
We are not for ascribing to angels (nor to faith,
and love, and holiness) the least pt.rt of the honour
proper to God, or to Jesus Christ. They do none
of the work of our Redeemer for us (nor ca.n we
do the least of it for our selvea), unleaa u the
work of )lia instruments and agl'nts, may be called
Christ's work; they s&\·e u•, indeed, but it ia but
a.a Timothy wa• taught by Paul, how to save him·
selr, and those that beard him ; and we are bid to
lave our 1elrer: Christ teacheth us, and ministers
teach ua. Christ· feedeth us, and we feed our-
aelves ; yea, he saith that we feed him : and that
he will, for 10 doing, say " Come, ye bleased, in•
herit the kingdom." Angels and men do Christ's
commanded work; but no cre&ture doth the let.St
part of Chriat's own proper undertaken work.
Objection. But these high thoughts of angels
ban drawn the Papists to idolatry, in praying to
them, and worshipping them.
Answer. It is your denying them the honour
that is due to tb•m, which is a temptation tba.t
hardeneth Papists in their exces1.
Must we not love and honour kings, miniaten,
and saints, though some herein run into extreams,
We have many reasons against praying to angels,
or olFering them visible corporeal worship ; because
,.e·know not just when they are present, !lnd be-
cau•e it may countenance the heathens demon
~raliip and idolatry, aDd because God bath apo
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES, 9t>
pointed us no such sort of W'Onhip. But God
having so largely told us of their love to us, and
thrir con•tant eminent service for us, he thereby
obligeth us to answerable regard, aft'ections, amt
acknowledgment. · ·
I hue said 50 mncb, in a small discourse in Mr.
J~aack Ambrose, bis book of Commu11iotl toil/a
A ngelt (at his requeat, who is now with angel•),
that I will not here recite very many particular
texts of scripture about th is subject: but ir you
will but look in your Concordance, you shall aee
what abundaut mention of angels there is through•
out all the .scripture, while we hear so little of
them in our booh and pulpits. It's true, that ia.
the Old Testament time they oftener visibly ap•
reared than they do now; but that is no deroga•
tion to our Gospel state; as it is more spiritual
th11n theirs, that neeiied more visible means, 50 our
spiritual benefits, by them before-named, are
greater than theirs were.
I. How familiar were angels with Abraham;
w!10 entertained them as men, till they made
themseh·es bPtter known to him: they were the
m<"ss<•ngers of the !(real promise to him of the nu·
n1NOU$ and the holy seed. They repro•ed Sarah
for her unbelief, that they might comfort her by
the promised seed.
How familiar were they with Lot, when they
came into his house, and took him in, and blinded
hi• enPmies, and told him.their message concerning
Sodom, and when they carried him, -.·bile he de-
)a" ed to depart! And when they aaved Zoar for
bis sake?
How familiar were they with Jacob, in his
trav~ls, ond his return; wlien he aaw them, u by
a ladder, a~cending aud descending; and when one
of them wre•tled with him, and bleued him,
th<>"Rh lie mode him bait?
·1 know that many escel!ent divinea do aay,.that.
"Cooglc
H• HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
one oC these, called angels, was Chlist. To which
I aay, l. IC it were so, t.hat doth not deny, but
confirm what I am pleading for. If Christ appear-
ing, made aogela his companions, the more for
their bononr.
2. But if this be true, either Christ had a body,
yee, many bodies, before bis incarnation by Mary,
or not. Ifnot, what were all these similitudes of
men, that did eat, and drink, and act ? Were
they mere shadows and delusions! How, then,
eould they speak and act 10 potent!y! If yea,
then wu the pure Godhead hypostatically united
to these many appearing bodies, or bot! Who
can prove a dilference, save as to the m..tter
and duratfon, between his union with these, and
with his last assumed ftesh. And yet the 1criptu1e
appropriatetb Christ's incarnation, and coming in
the body, to the/ulneu oftime, and to those l4IJ
da!JI. I am loth to aay, without proof, that Christ
had many bocliu, lest any should infer that there
have been many Christs; but if this must be
held, it will introduce Peter Sterry's doctrine u
most probable, that Christ, as the eternal word
essentially, God first caused the noblest creat9'
nature, abo~e angels (or, as Dr. llfore calleth it,
an eternal ftesb; or, as he and John Turner, a
prime created life in the prime matter), and did
unite itself to this super-angelical nature, aud by
it cause all the rest; aud that this second nature
appeared to the fathers by auch temporary assumed
bodies, and at last usumed th_e body oC a man,
being, some say, itself a soul to it, but as othen,
assuming both·a human aoul and body: and so,
that Christ hath three nature1, a divine, a &Upel'-
angellcal, and a humane. But of this oft el•
where. This opinion is reconciling as to th8
Arians, who have affirmed Christ to be a creature
&boYe angel1. And if God made such a creatan,
.me&binb it 1hould be euie to penwade &hem,
"Cooglc
.A-PPARITl<>NS AND WITCHEs. 9'f
tlrtl he is Iii the cmteor, ind "'°"~ tha" a 1~.
IDatceth all the worltl one (though of unlike partsj
doth primarily unite himself with the fiist and
noblest of hia productions.
Objection.-But scripture saith, that Abrah'1n
called one of these Lord.
Answer.-'That name, both Adonai and Elohim,
are oft giYen to creatures. And if the name of
Jehovah be sometimes used as to ang~ls, it is only
meant to God, 1peaking by tbt!lll, whom Abraham
Jinew to be present, though invisible, and to lnow
all that was said.
Yet further, it was an angel that appeared to
Moses in the burning bush, and so that sent him
OD his work to deliver the Israelites from Egypt,
111nd fortified him with power of miracles, and made
Jthn bis great promises of success ; and yet no
doubt it was God~ and the text is true that af-
firmeth both : therefore it must be God speaking
and acting by the ministry of an angel, commis-
aioned to use his name.
It waa angels that gave Mose9 the law in the
Mount Sinai, for so saith the Scripture; but it
was God by thetn, who werj! his voice and finger,
that made and wrote the tables, ind ~pake all the
words. Thete were 111 great and wonde.rful mi•
nistr1tion1.
God promited Moses that hil angels should go
before the Israelites to conquer their enemies,
aud bring them into the promised land ; and be
ehargeth them not to provoke him, for God'a name
wu upon him, and he would not forgive their
iniquities. What greater things could' be said,
than that an an11el shall bear God's name, and be
tlleir captain, and conquer their enemifts, and be
dleir governour, and not forgive their wilful sins.
In Joshua's war at Jericho, an angel appearetb,
....profeueth hiMsell " ihe captain of the Lord'•
Hotta," lotb. y. 14, U; and Joshua fell on ha
I'
"Cooglc
98 HISTORICAL DISCOURSE OP
face to the earth, and worahipped him, and prayed
to him to tell him bis message. If angels be not
the generals or captains of our armies, wot are u~
like to conquer.
It was by an angel that God brought the
Israelites out of Egypt, Numb. xx. 16; it wu an
angel that chose a wife for Isaaclc, Gen. xxiv. 7,
40 ; the angel of God's presence saved the Israel-
ites, Isa. lxiii. 9; an angel delivered the three
men, Dan. iii., from the fire, and Daniel from the
liona, Dan. vi.; angels preached Christ to tbe
shepherds; an angel made the pool in Jerusalem
healing, Jo. v. 4; an angel preacheth to Corne·
lius ; an angel deliveretn Peter, Acts xii. ; the
angel of the Lord encampetb round about them
that fear him, and delivereth them, Psalm xxitiv.
7 ; God gh·etb his angels charge over us, to 'keep
us ia all our ways; they bear us up in their bands
Jest 've dash our foot against a stone, Psalm xci.
11, 12. Rev. i. tells us, that God first revealed
his will to Christ, and Christ to angels, and angels
to John, and John to the churches, and the
churches to posterity: yea, angels ministred to
Christ himself when be was hungry, Mat, h·. 11;
and appeared in liis agony, strengthening him,
Luke xxii. 43; legions of angels are at bis ser-
vice; and all the holy angels will come ."'ith him
at judgment; and they will be the reapers at the
end of the world.
Above tw:o hundred and sixty times are angels
mentioned in Scripture, and yet bow little noti~
do we take of their help?
But is it only our bodies that they help? Cu
they reach or help our souls?
.dnatD.-If de.-ils can touch our souls with their
temptations, are angel• farther from us, or l•
.,--able to move us to our duty?
. But are they ordiuarily present, or kllo1' eur
.c~e?
"Cooglc
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 99
.A1S11D.-They rejoice in our conversion, amt
therefore ]mow it : they are present in our as9em-
blies, as Paul intimatf'th, 1 Cor. xi. 10. Say not
before the angel that it wu an errour, Eccl. v. 6;
which intimateth the angel's presence. Every be-
liever bath hie angel beholding the face of our
Father in heaven, Matt. xiii. 10, and they are not
strangers to their charge. We feel that the devil
is present with U9, by his temptations continually,
in all our duties molesting or hindering us; and
are angels less intent upon their work? It is
:Michael and his angels that fight against the
Dragon and his angels, to save the church.
While auch texts make the Papiats think that
angels are always or ordinarily present, it they
give them not divine worship, but such as we
would do a prince, though I have said before why
I approve not of their doings, I dare not, as some
late expositors of the Re,·elation, jud~e the catho-
Jick church to have become antichristian idolater•
as soon as they j!'ave too much worship to angels
and to saints. We are come to the New Jerusa-
lem, to the innumerable angels, Heb. 12, and
must honour them that fear the Lord, Psalm xv. ;
and we know that we are translat.d from death to
life, because we love the brethren. And is it so
damnable idolatry to love and honour angels and
pints a little too much, while they 11ive them
nothing proper to God? I blame their irregulari-
ties, but I dare not judge so hardly of them, and
the ancient church, for this, as some do; nor think
them much better that love and honour angels and
aainta u much too little.
Some now would call a man an idolater that
11ionld say as Jacob, Gen. xlviii. 16-" The angel
which redeemed me from all evil bless the lat!•."
They uy, Thia angel wu Christ. .Anno.-Scri~
tare aaith it waa an anrel, Hos. xii. 4, saith--
" He bad power onr the angel." I dare not call
"Cooglc
100 BISTORICA.L DISCOURSE OP'
God an &'Plfel, though abgttl1 inay 'be called goda,
H prioces be. If Christ had tben no nature but
the divine, I 1hould suspect it is Ariani1m to call
him an angel, or mes1enger of God. If he had a
body, then was it Ubiquitary; or bad be infinite
numbers of bodiea !-or could be be but with one
in the world at once!
For my part, J hue bad many deliYeranees IO
ma"ellous, as con•iriceth me of the miniatry or
an11el1 in them (not here to be recited). Bot I
am 1atisfied, that there is no lesa of the presence
and efficacy of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,
when he useth and honoureth any in1trumentl',
angel• or men, than if he used no means at all.
A1 I will not desire 10 to alter tbd stated goYern•
ment and or1ler of God as to Pxpect here Yisible
eommunion with angels, nor will olfer them any
unrequired worship, 10 I would not unthankJully
forget how much we receive by them from Christ,
and how much we are beholden· to them, &nd to
God and our Redeemer, for them. And I hope
they ~II shortly be a conYoy to the aoul or thi•
poor Lazarus to Abrah1m's bo•om, or to the Para•
diae.where I hope to be with Christ.-Amn.
One thing more I think meet to mind the
re&der of, that he may not lose the benefit of
these histori-that is, How to discern a gt>Od
1pirit from a had. The Scripture telling us that
three things &re the characters of deYils-" lying,
malignity, and hurtfulness," Job Yiii., wbieh in•
elude all uncharitableness, revenge, and diYiaion;
•e may certainly gather, that it is a diabolical
1pirit tl111t promoteth these, whatner the pre-
tences are. ·
I. The anticbristian errour, called Antinomialf,
that would set Christ againft Christ, and maa
men beliewe that his death had 11>ade all our oble"
dience to hia goHt.Dmat a tbillf tb~t fhell DH*
, ,Google
.Al'PilITJONS AND WITCHES. 101
.le ua any good (being c1lled works), and all our
Ji111 against hie grace to be so harmless, that we
ought not to think that we shall be eyer the worae
for them ; aad that the elect, that live in perjury,
and murder, and adultery,.. or any other sin, are
not perjured, murderers, adulterers, because now
they are Christ's sins, and not theirs (with many
1uch reproaches of Christ, called by the Crispiaua
" the exalting of him.") These certainly are from
de•ils, and God doth notably diaowu them, as the
fore-mentioned instances of the Ranters, and thole
in New England mentioned by Mr. Weld, do
,hew. And the doleful form of Mr. Davies'• con-
gl'.egatiou, about Rowel in Northamptonshire, of
the madu~u, blasphemies, barkiugs, and beastility
Jhere, I leaYe to the enquiry of aober persona ;
though I am no witness of it, the reports are sucla
&a are not meet to be ailenced.
Mr. Samuel Crispe bath published this week a
book, as against me, in defence of his father, tell-
ing the world that he understands not what be
writeth of, and ignorantly defending what I affirm,
and confuting his father, thinking it a defence of
him.
I deny not but a Crispiau may be a Christian,
while, through ignorance, he belie•eth not his own
words. But he that will but read the Scripture,
and particularly the texts cited by me in my
•• Confession of Faith," shall see bow fully Christ
bath confuted Criape, and Yindicated bis media-
torial office.
11. And all tb111e principles, pauiom, and prae-
tices, that are agaiu1t the love and concord o{
Chri1tian1, whatever pretence of an angel of light,
or other 111iui1ters of righteousness, may be their
6\loak. are undoubtedly from the di•iding de•il.
III. And more evident ia it, that it i1 no better
•pirit that iuspireth all the slanderers, silencen,
Jncl peue~uton oft.la• fal&bful m1Di5'era of Clarbta
"Cooglc
IOJ HISTORICAL DISCOURSE O"V
and those that make and execute the lawa for the
imprisoning and ruining or the most conscionable
Christians for their avoiding notorious ain, or, at
l•ast, for doubtful infirmities, incomparably leH
than theae persecutors (clergy or laity) are guilty
of. By their fruita you may know what spiri&
actuateth these men. Wolves, thorns, and thistles,
are lrnown by hurtfulnesa. Christ'• miracles were
-doing good, and healing ; but devil's work i1
hurting and destroying.
And let thoae men and women think of it that
eannot forgive, but are set upon revenge. Marie
whether revenge be not the most ordinary busineu
of witches, and or devilized souls, most of theae
histories tell it you. Therefore Chriat telleth us,
that if we forgive not, we shall not be forgiven, 10
contrary is he to the diabolical spirit of revenge,
though yet be bath just and punishing governours;
Were but the histories of witches and appari•
tions well considered, it would help men to un~
dentand, that devils make no small number of the
lawa and rulers that are in tbi• world, and have no
1mall numlier of honoured senants, and are the
authors of mo•t of the wars in the world. So th&&
the phrase, Rev iii.-" The devil shall cast soble
of you into prison," should not seem strange.
And I would I had no cause to say, that this mart
or lying; malignity. and hurtfulneat, tells us, that
many sermons are made by devils, and too many
or the books written by them that adorn the libra-
ries of many learned men.
A11d though demons do good in order to do
hurt, yet, by this rule orjudging or spirits by their
Cruit1, I cannot but think that (though there wa1 a
111iJ:ture of good and bad) there was more of the
good spirit than of the bad in 111ost of the ancient
monks aud bermites, that lived so strict and mor-
ti&ed !iyes. And as I find, not only by Erumut
'but by the complaint or Protestant divines, &Ut
'" ~Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 103
Ii waa a de1ire of liberty from the Papists' a11st...
rities that preniled with most of the vulgar to
eut off popery, so the cue of many monasteries ;
their mortification and devotion (though il(norant)
doth make me hope that in many such monasteries
there is more of the Spirit of God than among the
common, wordly, sensual sort of Protestants, I
that must say so of our well-meaning Separatist&
here, mast aay so of such Papista; for I find, by
the multitude of instances in Ciesat"ius, and others,
that just as deep repentance' for former sin doth
now bring many to think it safest to joyn with the
coniregations which they think are most strict,
so before Luther's time it was ordinary, when
God humbled any deeply for their sin, to think
that they must presently joyn with such aa re-
nounced the world and fteshly pleasures, and
tninded nothing but religion and salvation. And
thence it came to pus, that among the Papi•ts the
Monasticka were called religious, <in distinction
from secular, and other sorts of men. And as our
separating religious Protestants do now demand,
of such as they admit to their communion, an ac-
count of some special experiences of God'a work
on their hearts in their conversion, 10 did the
mon•steries by such as they received. The afore-
11aid author, Cmsarius, will tell you of multitudes
of instances how God convertf'll sinners, and
brought them into their religious houses,
What can one think of all this, but that, as all
that we here do is imperfect and faulty, and yet
pardoned through Christ, to the sincere, 10 among
Papiats, and honest sectaries, there is much tlaat is
of God, and shall be acel>pled, though Satan, by
their ignorance and his 1ubtilty, do obscure a.nd
.,aculate the lustre of it, and turn it into scandal.
For such is hi1 warfare against Christ and· his
kingdom in this world.
God i1 good, snol doth good ; and will ha"
Google
104 HISTORICAL DISOOURSE OP
mercy, qd not 1acrifice; and his jlltlice ~
hurt, for a greater good. ,
·· The deYil i9 a do-evil ; and iC be do good, it i4
\0 greater hurt. ,
And Ob that I could get my qwn and all
~eader'9 hearts sufficiently atl'ected with this o~
servation I-that a• all our life is carried on in w,
warfare, and Satan's malice is both against Christ
and ns, 80 his great work i9 to draw ua into some
sins which shall·cloud the glory both of tbe gr.,,ce
~ud the miracles of Christ, and damp the comfort
:whicl, we might have received by all his mercies.
If he sec an honest Christian zealously atl'ected,
draw him by temptation of the Oesh into some
scandal, or by ignorance into some false opinion•,
~nd that ilory of all his zeal is presently turne4
into reproach. If he do but fall out with some of
his neighhours, and by passion, or for worldly in-
~erest, offend them, all his piety goeth no.t only fot-
h•pocrisie, buf for a reproach to piety it self. Yea,
if th~y fall but into melancholy, and impatien~
and discontent, the devil sets them to aft'iight mea
C1om religion, as we ~et up mawkins in our corn
and.orchards to aff'rii:ht the birds.
. Oh! how amiable would a holy and beaYenly
life arpear, were it not conspurcated with the miz-
ture of its contraries? How beautiful would the
wisdom of a saint appear, were it not dishonourecl
by the mixture of ignorance and errour? Ho11
joyfully and thankfully could I review all the
wonders of mercy that have filled up my life t•
this present hour, had I not mized those m&nJ
transgressions that must not be remembred witla.
out grief and shame, though through Christ thej
be forgiven? Though I can aay that pride, am.,
bition, and covetousness, and worldly prefermeata,
hue not been strong enoueh to cloud my com-
forts, yet, alas I what a multitude of faults, by
can•lesaoe11, incoaitanoy, rubo•••• pu1ioo, ao4
"Cooglc
APPUmONS AND WITOllBS. 185
'ftllt or da wetcltfllln... and tenderness of eon•
,a.nee, bav• done it I Ob I witb wbat joyful
praise to GGd conld I panue all the hi1tory of 111y
pilgrimage, did not this woful miature or my aina
aamp and allay my comfortl, and, by indignation
91ainst my aelf, abate my peace ! I believe for-
JiffHSI and safety from hell : but if (besidea my
near. aiaty yeare eastigatory paint) I did sutptet,
with Aug111tine, thet there were a purgatory here-
after, I should fear it; not out of any .
doubt of tbe
1n8icienoy of Chri1t'1 satisfaction, rigbteousiieu,
and merits to their proper end1, but because l l>e-
Jine that he is my govemour, though by a law of
arace and faith ; and that he is a judge, and that
ha is not indift'erent whether we obey him or di1•
obey him. If l believe not Obrist, I am no Chri..
•ian : and if I believe Christ'• constant doctrine,
particularly Matt. v. and vi., and vii. and llllT., I
ean no euier be made a C&IIPIAN e, than I can
believe the ll'OHett contradicdon. And I now
think this distinguishing name as useful aa wu
the name of Nicolaitans.-Rev. ii. and iii.
One thing more I desire to be observed about
the warfare between Christ and devils-that both
Sides make great use of human instruments, eape·
cially of princes, and pastors or teachera, and pa•
rents. These are the three great organes (under
,..apla) appointed by God for the moral free agency
in promoting the kingdom of Christ on earth•
.And where these three are faithful, 0 l how great
a bles1ing are they ? Therefore it is the grand
design of devila to corrupt tbete three, and to
-ke them traytora to Christ, that it their right•
fat Lord, and enemies to his work, and him whom
diey ahould repreaent. No deadlyer enemies te
children than ungodly parents. No deacllyer ene-
e A follower of Dr. Crisp.
'~
"Cooglc
108 HISTORlCAL DISCOURn o•·
miee to the wonhippera of Clirist t1iatfmalipant:
proud, iporant, worldly -clergymen. No aucli
powerful enemiee to kingdoms at ungodly, igno•
rant kings and mqietrates. 0 ! bdw much gooct,·
or mischief, m3y<>M king, or suprKm power, do;
by the great ad'8ntage that God, the institutor o(
lfOvemment, bath given them? Asia, Afriea;
America, and Europe, are dolPful mon11ment1 of
the success of 4evils, by making princes, priests,
and pattnts, their instrume11ts, corrtlpting them
by ignoruce, and by worldly ileshly balh ! Mr.
Cotton Mather, in the Life of Mr. Eliot, the Netr
England Enngelist, reciteth this account of bis
(p. 93), why the Lyn Indians were all naoght,
aave one, beet.use their aachim (or king) wai
11aught ; for they and the p~• (or wizards)
like prie111, did with malice, threatning, and per-
secution, -dri\'e the people from receivinf{ the gos-
pel, and praying to· God. What a dangerous case
through mutual hostility, and cruel persecution',
hath sometimes one 11.w, political or ecclesiastical,
brought a nation into, by locLing the church doon
aFaiast unity, concord, and mutual loH, and by
atoning the dissenters from such diYiding snares f
-And what a blHsing hath on<' good prince, yea,
one reforming or healing law or proclamation, bePD
-to a land f
What a bleasing to the church -re such bishopa
as lpatius, Cyprian, Basil, the three or four
Gregories, Chryspstom, Pr<'clu1, Atticus, Augus-
tine, and such as they. And what scandals and
tearen were the contrary minded : who by their
ignorance and pridP, on pretence of uniting, cut
the church and empire into the ahreda that yet
.continue, and were a grief to Constnttine, and
more to Theodosius: 2. to Anaatasiua, and to
111any a worthy ..mperour ! And when they grw
alrenger, deposed their true rulers the eutnn em-
perers, od"luch a.'Ludoyicus Piu1, and kepi 11p
, ,Google
APPARITIONS AND WITCHES. 107"
Woody wars against emperors in the west, till they
deprived mo1t kings of half their government,
The God that fixetb the course of 11ature, so as
that he will not, for the prayers of any, malce the
IUD alter a minu.le of its rising and setting time,
aor alter the spring and fall, summer and winter,
&c., bath 1e·ttled also a subordinate order of free
1genu for moral government; and though be dis-
poee of the events o( all men's acts, yet will be
not u1ually violate that free order. h's marvel-
lous the devils have so much power over children
~ men, u I have here proved, if but a 1illy,·
wretohed witch conaeot ; and how much more·
111iachief may .be do to chqrah a11d .kiogdom, if be
Can but get bishops, priesta, and princes, and law-
makers, to cooaeot.
: Therefore, above all other resiatance of devils,·
oli ! pray hard for wise and godly kings and ma-
glatrates, and_for wise, and humble, and faith.fal
i.acbers, and out for family piety. And iC ever
t!ae kingdoms, churches, and people, be reduced to
wisdom, unity, and sobriety, this must be tll•
llltlAI, according to God's eatabliabed vuy.
"Cooglc
APPENDIX.
,.,
THE Collo1ring are 1omeof the pueape ref'ernd te·
in the Coff!OiDg Disco11ne, taken from the autbor'a
celebrated worlr, " Tu SAI!ITI' EvsaLAaTillG
Jl&IT."-
.. The learned, godly Zanchiua Hith, be W'Olldertl'
that any thould deny that there are suoh spiri&s·u
b.ga or fairle1. I could, nith be, bring mm'y
example& of penon1, yet aJiye, that ban had ez..
perienoe of them, but it is not necesn.ry to name
tbem. Hence it appean, that there are such
1pirit1 iu the air; and that, when God permit•,
they exen:ise their power in our bodiea, eitlter tb
·•port or to hurt. or this, 1&ith he, betides the
certainty of God's word, we hue also men's daily
experience. These deYi11, therefore, do sane to
confirm our faith of God, of good angels, and many
things more that the Scripture deliYereth. llany
'Cleny that the aoul of man liHth after death, be..
cause they tee nothing go from the body but Wt
'breath.-.But we aee not the dml1; and yet it ii
~earer than the 1un, that the air is full of th-;
because, bnidee God's word, experience itself
doth teach it :-thus Zancby plead• uodeny.ble
experience (lib. iY. cap. 20). Yea, godly, aobfr
Melanctbon aJlirms, that he had Hen aome •ech
1ight1 or apparitiona himself; and•that many_...
dil>le penons of hie acqaaiotanoe:.bne told hi•,
tbat they liaH DM only HeD &Hllt1.litatliacl ••
, ,Google
APPENDIX. lof
talk with spirits : among the relt, be mentiona hit
own aunt, who sitting sad at the fire, after the
death o( her husband, there appeared unto her OM
in lai• likeiitt•, and another like a Franciscan friar;
the Cormer told her that be was her bnsband-t·bat
.he must hire some priests to HY certain maa1ee
for him : then be took her by the band, promising
to do her no harm, but In. 1wid 60 bun.ell 1adr'•,
l1iat it remai11«l blaek ellff' a.ft"• and so they \'&•
nisbed away.-Tbus writes the judicious, credible
Melanctbon. Luther aftirmed of bim1eJC, that at
Coburge be oft-times bad an apparition o( btwtling
lort:M1, the sight wbereo( did so aft'rigbt him, that
,he was near 1wooning. Also in bis own garden
the devil appeared to him in the likeneas o( a black
boar, but then Le made light of it.-(See the
"&inh' Reat," part 2, page 271, edit. 16lll.)
Lutber'1 pra.yer1 were so miraculously powerCul ancl
pre•ailing, 1bat Justus Jonas writes of him, " bu
flir potuit IJ'"ld 11oluit"-" that man could do what
he list.'' When Myeoniua, a godly diYine, Jay
tick of that coniumption which is called phthim,
Luther prayetb earnestly that be might reconr,
and not die before bimselC; and 10 confident waa
he oCtbe grant of bis desire, that he writea boldly
· to Mrconiut that he should not die now, but
thonld remain yet longer upon the earth. Upon
theae prayen 4id Myconius presently revi•e as
from death, and lived six years after, till Luther
was dead : and himself bath largely written the
ttory, and proCeased tha.t when he read Luther'•
.letter he seemed to bear that voice o( Christ-
.. Lazarus, come Cortb !" What waa it lest than
a miracle in Baynam, the martyr, who told the
·Papists, "Lo, here is a miracle !-I feel no more
pin in this fire than in a bed of down-it is u
tweet to me at a bed oC roses." So Bi1bop Ferrar,
who could aay, before be went to the ilre, " Ir I
·aiir in the Are, belitTa not IDT clootrine f' antl at-
"Cooglc
APPBNDl:E.
eordi"!llY rMi&ined unmOTed. Perhapt yo11 Witt
..,_.. if tlleee eumples were common, I would
belie.e·T" But if tD<>IMUr• were co11""""• we should
lin by _,,, and not by /aiJA. Au•tin saith;
" God letteth not enry saint partake of miracle1,
lest the weak should. be d-i-.ed, with this per~
niciou~ error, to prefe. miracles u better than the
works of ri,hteouaneH, wher9by ewrnal life· i8'
IUaiDed,"-I6id. P• 264,-4> 6,
"Cooglc
DR. COTTON MATHERfs
WOJllDBRS
OP
THE INVISIBLE WORLD..
.tltHta.tiotu to tlie Truth a•ll U.•fa.1- of
Dr. Mather'• Hi1t<wy.
Svea a work as this bath been much H.ired, and
.long expected, both at home and abroad, and too
long delaJed by u1 ; and sometimes it bath seemed
a hopeleaa thing ever to be attained, till Gad Biaed
up the spirit of this learned and pious person, one
of the 1oa1-ef the colledge, and one of the minia•
tera of the third generation, to undertakethis work.
His learning, and godliness, and mini1terial abili•
ties, were so conspicuous, that at the age of 1evm•
teen yeara he was called to be a publick preacher
in Boston, the metropelis of the whole Engliab
America; md witbiu a while after that, lie wai
ordained putor of the same .church, whereof hi•
·own father wu the teacher, ·&Dd this at the unani•
mous desire of the people, anti with the approba·
tion of the ma,istratea, ministen, and chu'l'Che1, in
the Yicinily of Boston, .And after be bad, for
diYers years, approved himself in an esemplary
way, and obliged bis natin country ·by publisbinf
mauy useful treatises, auhable to tbe p1"ent atate
ol religion.amongst us, he set himself to write the
C'tlurclo·Histo•y of New England, .not at all omit•
tiag his ministerial employments; and in the
miclst of 011ny dlfficuhiea, tcara, aud temptatwn1,
"Cooglc
. llt WONDERS OP THE
hnlng made a diligent search, ~ollectiag of proper
materiala, and 1electing the choicest memorials, he
hath, in the iHue, within a rew months, contriYed,
compo1ed, al!d methodised the eame into thia r-
and frame which we here see.
At for myself, having been, by the mercy of
God, now aboye sixty-eight year• in New Eng-
laad., and 1erYed the Lord and bis peop!e, in my
week- measure, 1ixty-}'1!&n in the mioi•try of the
Gospel, I may now say, in my old age, I have
aeen all that the Lard hath done for his people
in New England, and hue known the begin-
ning and progreu of these churches unto thia
day; and haring read o•er much of this history,
I cannot but in the love and fear of God bear wit-
na.s to ihe wutA of ii ; viz. That this present
Church History of New-England, compiled by Mr.
Cotton Mather, for the substance, end, and scope
of h, ii, as far aa I have been acquainted ther..
·Withall, according to truth.
Salem, tM 25thof
IM Firll MOl&lh, 1697•
JOHN liIOGI.NI01',
.Tes. author of the following narrati•e is a person of
1uch well known integrity, prudence, and •eracity,
that there is not any cause to question the truth oC
what he here relates, And moreover, this writing
of bis is adorned with a very grateful nriety or
learning, and doth contain. such surprising worb
of Pro•idence. as do well deaerYe itue notice and
obaerntion. On all which acco11t1ts, it is with jnlll
G11Dfidence recommended to the publick by
NATR. MATHE&,
.Api1, %7, U97, JonN How&,
ll£TTH. MUD.
'" ~Google
lNVJStBLE WORLD. 111
1 NTRODUCT ION.
JhADU., prepare to be entertained with al pro.
digious matters as can be put intn any.history I
And let him tJ.at writes the nest 7'MutMl06f'11phiia
PIWllllWJlioo, allow to these prodigia the cbiefpl-
among the wonders.
About the time o( our bleBSed Lord'• coming to
reside on earth, we read of so many poasesaed witlt
derils, that it is commonly thought tbe number or
such miserable energumeos was then eocreased
aOO.e what baa been usu&! in other a~es; aad the
-SOD of that increase bas been made a matter or
aome enquiry. Now, tbougb the deri11 might
here.in design by preternatural operations to blu&
the miracles of our Lord Jesus Christ, which point
they gained among the blasphemous Pharisen 1
and the derils might herein also design a rillanoua
imitation of what was coming to pas• in tlte incar•
nation of our Lord Jesus Obrist, wherein God
came to dwell in B.esh; yet I am not without aus•
picion, that there may be something further in the
conjecture of the learned Bartholinu1 hereupon,
who HJ'•, it was Qwod j...ui.i yrllltw "'°"""'• 11rli•
hi mlJ!licU tlediti damoaem ~riat, the
lews, l.y the frequent use of magical tricks, called
in the devils among them.
It i1 rery certain there were hardly any people
in the world grown more fond of sorceries tball
\hat unhappy people. The Talmtull tell us of the
ij'tle parchments, with words upon them, which
were their common amulets, and of the char-
which they muttered orer wound•, and of the
rarioua enchantments which they used against all
aorta of disasters whatsoever. It ls t.lllrmed, ia
&lta Talmudl, that 1101111 than t1rt11t7•£1111r 1ch11lara
Google
114 WONDERS OF THE
in one 1chnol were Jcilled by witcbcran; and that
no leas than fourscore persona were hanged for
witchcrart by one judge in one da.y. The gloss
adds upon it, That the women of Israel bad gene-
rally fallen to the practice of witchcrafts ; and
therefore it was required that there should be &till
chosen into the council one skilrut in the arts of
1orcerera, and able thereby to discover who might
be guilty o( tho~ black arts among such as were
accused before tb•m.
Now the arrival of Sir William Phips to the
government of New England was at a time when
a govemour would have bad· occasion for all the
akill in sorcery tt.at was ever necessary to a J ewisb
councellor : a time when scores of poor people bad
newly (alien under a prodigious possession of
devils, which it was then generally thought had
been by witchcrarts introduced. h is to be con-
fessed and bewailed, that many inhabitants o(
New England, and young people especially, hnd
been led aw1y with little sorceriea, wherein they
did secretly those things that were not right
against the Lord their God; they would orten
cure hurts with spells, and practise detestable con-
jurations with sieves, .and keys, an!1 j>!!~S~, ancl
nails, and horse.shoes, and other· implementa, to
learn the thing• for which they bad a forbidden
end impious curiosity. Wretched books had atoln
into the land, wherein fools W4're instructed bow
to become able fortune tell4'ra; among which, I
wonder that a blacker brand is not set upon that
fortune-telling wheel, which that sham scribbler,
that goes under tl)e letters of R. B., hu promised
in his " Delights tor the Ingenious," as an 'ltort41t
ad ple<Uatlt recreation ; and by theae boqks the
minds of many had be~n so poisoned, that they
•tudied this finer .witchcraft, until, 'tis well, if
1ome were not betray'd into •hat is gT011ser, and
lllore 1~n1ilile and capital. Although thtH diao
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. BS
bolieal divinations are more ordinarily committed,
perbapa, all over the whole world, than they are in
the country of New England, yet, that being a
eountry devoted unto the worship and ae"ice of
the Lord Je•us Chriat above the rm of the worlcl~
Jie signali•ed his vengeance again1t these wicked·
nesses, with such extraordinary dispensations aa
haTe not been often seen in other placea.
The devils which had been so play'd withal,
and, it may be, by some few criminala more ex•
plicitely engaged and employed, now broke in upon
the country, after as astonishing a manner u waa
11ver heard of. Some scores of people, first about
Salem, the center and ·tint-born of all the towns in
\he colony, and afterwards in several other places,
!"4tl:~ _
ar!,~~!ed '!i.th .!11.&DJI. .p<eterlWw'al vexation& ·
upon TheiLbod~-&ud a..irariet.y.of cruel torments,
:Which were evidently io6icted from the demons of
ihe iaJJilible world. The people that were infected
and infested with such demons in a few daya l.
time arrived unto such a refining alteration upon ,
their eyes, th~i_ they could see their tormentors;
they aay a little devil, of a little stature, and of a
iawny colour, attended still with spectres that ap-
peared in more hum•n circumstances.
_ These tormentors tendered unto the aftlicted a
book, requiring them to·sign it, or to touch it at
least, in token of their consenting to be listed in
the service of the devil; which they refusing to
do, the spectres, under the command of that black•
""'"• as they called him, would apply themselvn
to torture them with prodigious molestations.
, The aftlicted wretches .were horribly distorted
and conYUlsed, they were pinched black and blue,
pins would be run every where in their 6esh, they
•ould be scalded until they had blisters raised on
&hem, and a thousand other things, before bun•
cheda of witneues, were done unte1 them, evidentlJ
"Cooglc
lit WONDERS OP TBB
pntenatural: for if it were preternatural to Jceep
• r~d fut for nine, yea; for 6Cteen days together.
or if it were preternatural to have one'a handa ty'd
eloae tosether with a rope to be plainly aeen, and
~en .hy UDHft bands preaently pnll'd up a 8'f9d
way from the earth, before a crowd of people,
Juch preternatural thiD@t were t>ndured by them.
But of all the preternatural thinga which befel
these people, there ..·ere none more unaccountable
than those, wherein the prestigious demons would
eHry now and then cover the most corporeal thinge
in the world with a fucinatiag mist of invisibility.
Aa now-a person was cruelly anaulte4 by a
apectre, that, as abe said, run at her with a spindle.
though nobody else in the room could see eith•
the spectre or the apindle; at Jut, in her agonies;
giving a 1naich at the spectre, 1he pulled the tpin-
clle away, aud it wu no sooner got into her band;
but the other folks then present beheld that it waa
indeed a r•I, propu, iron 1pindle, which wbt!d
tbey locked up very 1afe, it was nevertheleas 1'y dw
!Jemon1 taken away to do farther mi.chief.
Again, a peraon wu haunted by a most abusi..
1pectre, which came to her, she said, with a 11Net
about her, though seen to none but herself. After
the bad undergone a deal of tease from the annoy•
ance of. the spectre, she gave a Tioleot anatell at
the sheet that wu upon it, where-from she tore a
eorner, which immediately wu beheld by all that
were present, a palpable corner of a sheet ; and Ii•
father, which was now holding of her, catcb'd, Cliat
he might keep what his daughter had so strangely
••ized, but the apectre Jlad like to hue wrung hia
band oll', by endenouring to wrett it from himi
laowBYer. be still bald it; and ae\'er&I times thil
odd accident wu renewed in the family. There
wanted not the oetb1 of 1oocl oredible people ti
&la••• particlllara,
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD: 111
: Al1<>, it it well known, that these wickeci
tpectres did proceed so far a1 to steal senral
quantitie1 of money from divers people, part or
'Which.individual money was dropt 1ometimea 011t
nC the air, before 1ullicient tpectators, into the
h"nds of the aftlicted, while the spectres were
araiog them tosubscribe their co•·enant with Death.
Moreover, poisons, to the standen-by wbollv in'
Yiaible, were 1ometimes forced upon the aftlicttd,
which when they ha't'e, with much reluctaocy,
swallowed, they have swoln presently, 10 that the
co111mon medicines for poisons have been foupd
necessary to rPlieve them; yea, 1ometimes the
spectres, in the struggles, have so dropt the poi-
1ons, that the standers·by have smelt them, and
Yiewed them, and beheld the pillows of the miser-
able 1t•ined with them.
Yet more, the miserable have complained bil-
terly of burning rags run into their forcibly di..
tended mouths; and though nobody could 1ee any
1uch clothes, or iudeed any fire• in the chambere,
;pet presently the scalds were seen plainly by every
body on the niouths of the complainers ; and not
,nly the 1mell, but the smoke of the buroinr
sensibly filled the chambers.
Once more, the miserable exclaimed extreainly
or br,nding iron• beating at the fire on the hearth
to mark them; now thou11h the standns-by could
see no iron1, yet they could see distinctly the
print of thPm in the a1he1, and smell them too, n
t'.iey were carried by the unseen furies unto the
poor creatures for whom lhey were intended: ancl
thoee poor creatures were thereupon to tti8"
JIHlind with them, that they will bt'ar the marka
.ol them to their dying day. Nor are tht!le the
~nth part of tbe prodigies that fell ont among tile
inhabitants of New England.
Flashy people may burlesque these thinp, bm
wh• hundred• of the moat aober people, in a
'" ~Google
118 WONDERS OP THE
eountry where they baye as much mother-wit,
nrtainly, as the rest of mankind, know t'hem tO
'be true, nothing but the absurd and fro"ard
apirit of Sadducism can question them. I hne
not yet mentioned 90 much as one thing that will_
not be justified, if required, by the oaths of mo~
considerate persons than any that can ridicule
these odd phenomena.
PREMONITIONS OF DEATH, APPARI-
TIONS, lt:e.
8T8ANG& premonitions of death approaching, are
matters or such a frequent nccurr~nce in history,
that one is reacly now to look u1·on them as no
more than matters of common occurrence. Tbe
learned know that Suetoniu• hardly leta one of hia
tweln Cesan die without th•m ; and the ..-ulgar
talk of them as things happening e•ery day among,&
their amaller neighbours.
Even within a fortnight of my writing thia,
there wu a physician who sojourned within a
furlong of my own house; thi• physician, for three
nights together, was miserably distrest with
dreams of hi• being drown'd. On the third of
these nights his dreams were so troubleaome, that
he w11 cast into extream sweats, by struggliD11
under the imaginary water. With the sweats yet
upon him he came down from his chamber, tellinf
the people of the family what it was that 80 dia-
eompoaed him. Immediately there came in two
friends, that asked him to go a little way witla
them in a boat upon the water; he wu "at fint
afraid ef 11ratifying the deaireof hia frieada, bwa...
Google
INVISIBLE WORLD. lit
or his late presages; but it being a nrr calm
tim.,, he recollected himself," Why should I mind
mv dreams, or mistrust the Di•ine Providence!"
He went with them, and before night, by a thun-
der-storm auddenly coming up, they were all three
of them drowned.
I hue just now enquired into the truth of what
I haYe thus related ; and I can assert it.
But apparitions after death are thing• which,
when they occur, have more strangeness in them•
.And yt>f they ha.e been often at>en in this land :
particularly persons that have died abroad at sea,
have, within a day after their death, been seen by
their friends in their houses at home. The sighta
haYe occasioned much notice and much discourae
at the nry time of them, and records have been
kept of the time (reader, I write but what bath
fallen within my own personal observation), and it
hath been afterwards found that they died near
that yery time when they thus appeared.
I will, from several instances which I hue
knotrn of this thing, single out one, that shall
have in it much of demonstration, as well as oC
particularity.
It was on the second of May, in the year 1687,
tliat a most ingenious, accomplished, and well-dis-
posed young gentleman. Mr. Joseph Beacon by
name, about five o'clock in the morning, as be lay,
whether sleeping or waking he could not say (but
judged the latter of them), bad a Yiew of hia
brother, then at London, although be was no,r
himself at our Boston, distanced from him a thou-
aand leagues, This, his brother, appeared to hilll
in the morning (I say). about fin o'clock, at Bot-
ton, ha.ing on him a Bengal gown, which be
uau:illy wore, with a napkin til!d about his head ;
bis countenance was •ery pale, ghastly, deadly, and
be had a bloody wound on one side of his forehHd.
t• Brother I" aaya &be atrrigltted J 01eph. " Bro-
"Cooglc
Ut WONDERS OP THE
tlaer !" answered the apparitiOB. Said J'osepll\
" What'• the matter, brother? How came TOI!
here?" The apparition replied, " Brother l I hant
been lllOAt \,arbnously and inhumanly murdered
by a debauched fellow, to w hQm I ne...er did any
wrong in my life.'' Whereupon he gave a parti•
cular description of the murderer; adding, " Bro.
ther, this fellow, cbanl'ing l1is name, is attemptin8
tQ come over to New England, in Foy or Wild: I
would pray you, on the first arrinl of either of
these, to get an order from the goTemour to aeiae
the peraon whom I ha•·e now described ; and theu
do you indict him for the murder of me, your bro.
tber: I'll stand by you, and prove the indiet•
ment.'' And so he nuished, Mr. Beacon wat
extreamly aatonisl1ed at what he bad seen and
beard; and the people of the family not only ob-
ae"ed an extraordinary alteration upon him for the
,.·eelc following, but have given me, under ti...ir
hands, a full teatimony that be then ga<e them al&
account of this apparition. All this while, :Mr.
Beacon bad no adTice•of any thing amiss attendi119
his brother, then in England; but about the latter
and of June following, he understood, by the cont"
mon ways of contmunlration, that the April before,
his brother, going in baste by"night to call a coach
for a lady, met a fellow, then in drink, with bis
doxy in bis band. Some way or other the fellow
thought himself atl'ronted in the hasty passage c>f
this Beacon, and immediately ran in tc> the fire sidf
of a neighbouring taYern, from whence he fetcbtd
out a lire-fork, wherewith he wounded Beacon Oil
the skull, -even in that nry part where the appari-
tion showed hia wound. Of this wound he l&JIO
guiahed until he died, on the seoond of May,
about live of the clock in th" morning, at Loadon.
The murderer, it seems, was endeaTouring &11
acape, as the apparition affirmed, but the frien*
ol tbe deceased Beacon aeised bim ; ancl proefO
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. 12'
aoting him at law, be found the help or 1uc1L
friend• u brought him oft' without the 1011 of hi1
life. Since which, there bu no more been heard
of the bu1iness.
This history I recei•ed or Mr. J 01eph Beacon
himself, who, a little before hi1 own pious and
hopeful death, which followed· not )011g after, p••
me the ttory, written and aigned with hia owa
hand, and attested with the circumatancea I haH
alre&dy mentioned.
The Loadoneu, or merchants of New Haven,
~ men of trafick and busineu, designed wholly
to apply themselves unto trade; but the design
failing, they found their great estates to sink 10
feat, that they must quickly do something.
Whereupon, in the year 1646, gathering together
almost all the "strength which was left 'em, they
built one ship more, which they freighted for
England, with the best part of their tradable
estates, and 1undry of their eminent persona em-
barked themselves in her for the •oyage. But,
ala. ! tM 1hip to<U """"'° after hliartl of. She
foundred in the sea: and in her were Jost, not
only all the hopes of their future trade, but al10
tbe livea of 1enral excellent persons, u well u
divers manuscripts of some great men in the couni-
try, sent over for the service of the church, whica
'Were now buried in the ocean, The fuller story
of that grievous matter let the reader, with a juaC
astonishment, accept from the pen of the reverend
peraon who is now the pa•tor of .New Haven.. I
wrote ante him for it, and was thu1 answered:-
Revereni and dear Sir,
In complfance with your de1ire1, I DOW' ·
_giye you the relation of that appt>rilioft of a •lrip ill
lllf air, which l hue received from the most or.,
Q
Google
•
121 WONDERS OF THE
dible. judicious, and curious 1unhing obseJTen
of it.
In the year 1647, besides mucb other Jading, a
far more rich trusure of passengers (five or six of
which were persons or chief note and worth in New
Haven), put themsehes on board a new ship, built
at Rhode Island, of about 150 tons, but so walty,
that the master (Lamberton) often said she would
prove their grau. In the molth of January, cut·
ting their way throu~h much ice, on which they
were accompanied with the reverend Mr. Daven-
port, besides many other friends, with many feara,
as well as prayen and tears, they set sail. Mr.
Duenport, in prayer, with an observable emphasis,
used these words, "Lord,'if It be thy plusure to
bury tl1ese our frienda in the bottom of the aea,
they are thine; save them!" The spring follow•
fog, no tidings or these friends arrived with the
ships from England: New Haven's heart began to
fail her. This put the l(odly people on much
pra)·er, hoih publick and private, That the Lord
would (if it was his pleasure) let them hear what
he liad done with their dear friends, and prepare
them with a suitable submission to his holy will.
Jn June next ensuing. a grest thunder-storm arose
CIUt of the north-west; 1rter which (the hemisphere
being serene), about an hour before sun-set, a
•hip or like dimensions with the aforesaid, with her
canvass and colours abroad (though the wind
northernly), appeared in the air, coming lip from
our harbour's mouth, which lies southward from
the town, seemingly with her sails filled under a
fresh 11ale, holding her course north, and continu-
i11g undor obsenation, sailing a~ainst the wind, for
the space of half an hour. Many were drawn to
behold this grea• "'ork. of God; yea, the very
children cried out, " There's a brave ship I" At
length, cro,.ding up as far 11 tl:ere is usually
:water auflicient for such a nssel, and ao near some
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. 121
o( tbe spectat01'8, as th.a.I tMy imagiMd 4 maft nUglrc
htrrl a ltoM °"board Mt-, her maintop seemed to
be blowu otf, but left banging in the shrouds, then
her mizen-top, then all her masting seemed blown
away by the board; quickly after the bulk brought
unto a careen, she overset, and so nnisbed into a
·amoaky cloud, which in some time dissipated,
Jeuiog, as every where else, a clear air. The ad•
miring spectators coulcl distinguish the several
colours of each part, the pdncipal rigging, aod
euch proportions, as caused not only the generality
of persons to say. this was the mould of their
ship, aod thus was her tragick end; but Mr.
Davenport also, in publick, declared to this elrect:
" That God bad condPScende<l, for the quieting of
·their aftlicted spirits, this extraordinary sccount of
his sovereign disposal of those for whom so many
fervent prayera were made continually. Thus,
I am, Sir,
Your humble SeTrant,
JAMES PIERPONT.
Reader (say1 Cotton Mather), There beinjf yet
Jiving so many credible gentlemen, thllt were eye-
witnesses of this wonderful thing, I venture to
publish it for a thing•• undoubted as 'tis wondel""
ful.-Book I, pages 2:1, 26.
--..Haie ipl• milm"i"'4 t>idi.
Four children ofJohn Goodwin, in Boston, whiclt
had enjoyed a religious education, and answered it
with a towardly ingenuity-children, indeed, of
·&a uemplary temper and carriage, and an example
"Cooglc
124 WONDERS OF THE
oto all about tbem for piety, bonesty, and iudui:#J'•
These were, in the year 1688, arrested by a Ter)'
atupendous witchcraft. The eldest of the children.
1' daughter of about thirteen years old, saw callM
to examine their laundress, the daughter of a
sea11dalous Irish' woman in the neighbourhood,
about some linen that was missing; and the w~
man bestowing Vf!rY bad language, the child wu
immediately taken with odd tits, that carried in
them something diabolical. It was not long before
'One of her sist,ers, with two of her brothers, were
horribly taken with the like tits, which the. mod
-ezperienced physicians pronounced extraordinary'
and prett>rnatural ; and one thing that the more
confirmed them in ti.is opinion was, that all th•
children were tormented still just the same part of
their bodies, at the same time, though their paim
flew like swift lightning from one part UQto ...,
other, and they \Vere kept so far asund.,r, that they
neither saw nor heard one another's complainte.
At nine or ten o'clock at night, they still had a re-
lease from their miseries, aud slept all night
pretty comfortably: but when tlie day came, they
were most miserably handled. Sometime& they
were deaf, sometimes dumb, sometimes blind, and
often all this at once. Their tongues would be
drawn down their throats, and then pulled old
upon their chins, to a prodigious length; their
mouths were forced open to such a wideness, that
their jaws went out of joint, and anon clap toge-
ther again with a force like that of a spring lock;
and the like would happen to thP.ir shoulder-blades,
.
and their elbows, and their hand-wrists, and several
of their Joints. They would He in a 'heattmm'd
condition, and be drawn together like those that
are tied neck arid heelii; and presently be stretch'd
out, yea, dra""' back enormously•
.They _made piteous outcries that they w~re cut
With knives, and struck 'Yitb blows, and.the plaia
'" ~Google
lNVISIBLE WORL~ 12$
,..ta.ts of the wounds were seen upon them. Their
-k$ would be broken, so that their neck bone
would seem dissolved unto them that felt it, and
Jet on a sudden it would become again so stiff',
t.bat there was no stirring of their heads; yea,.
their beads would be twisted almost round ; and
if the main force of their friends at any time ob-
•ructed a dangerous motion which they seemed
upon, they would roar exceedingly ; and when de-
YOtions were performed with them, thPir hearing
wu utterly taken from them. The ministers of
Boston and Charlestown, keeping a day of prayer,
Yith fasting, on this occasion, at the troubled
'llouse, the youngest of the four children was im·
mediately, h,.ppily, delivered from all its trouble.
But the magistrates, being awakened by the noise
ef these grievous and horrid occurrences, examined
Che peraon who was under the suspicion of having
employed theee troublesome dmmons, and she-
pH such a wretched account of herself, that she
yas committed unto the gaoler's custody.
It was not long before this woman (whose name
wu Glover} was brought upon her trial; but then
the court could have no answers from her but in
the Irish, which was her native language, although
the understood English very well, and had accus•
iomed her whole family to none but English in her
'1rmer conversation. When she pleaded to her in•
cJictment, it was with owning and bragging, rathet'
than denial of her guilt; and the interpreters, by
whom the communication between the bench and
the bar wa• managed, were made sensible that a
1pell had been laid by another witch on this, to pre-
yent her telling tales, by confining her to a language
which, 'twas hoped, no body would understand. The
woman's house being searched, several images, or
poppets, or babies, made of rags, and stuffed with
1oat'1 hair, were thence produced; and the •ile
woman eonfeased, that her way to torment the ob-
"Cooglc
UG WONDERS OF THE
jects or her malice, WH by wetting or her linger.
with her spittle, and stroaking of those little·
images. The abused children were then present
in the court, and the woman kept still stooping
and shrinking, as one that was almost preat unto
death with a mighty weight upon her, Bat one
of the im1ges being brought nnto her, ahe odlr
and ewiftly started up, and snatched it into her
hand; but she bad no sooner snatched it, than
one of the children fell into sad fits before the
whole assembly. The judges had their just ap-
prehen1ions at this, and carefully canaing a re-
petition of the experimene, they still found the
same event of it, tbou@'h the-children saw not the
hand of the witch was laid upon1he images. Ther·
asked her, " Whether she had any to stand by
her?" She replyed, she bad; anrl looking verr
pertly into the air, she added, " No, he's gone!"
and she then acknowledged that she had one, who
was her prince, with whom she mentioned I know
not what communion, For ·which cause, the night
after, she was beard expostulating with a de'fil
for bis thus deserting lier, telling him, that " be-
cause he had served her so huely and falsely, she
had confessed all."
However, to make·all clear, the court appointed
·fire or six physicians to examine her very strictly,
wh~ther she were in no way cru"
d in her in-
tellectuals. Divers hours did they spend with her,
and in all that while no discourse came from her
·but what was agreeable; particularly, when they
asked her whal> she thought would become of her
1oul, ·she reply'd, "You a•k me a very eolema
question, and I cannot tell what to say to it." Sia•
profest henelfa Roman Catholick, and could recite
ber pa.ter-tw1tn- in Latin very readily, but there
was one claus<' or two always too bard for her.
•hereof she said 1h1 ca.lcl not r~tl!J it, if1"'1111a1li&
.u.,, clll IM world. ·
, ,Google
INVISIBLE WORLD.· 127
In the upshot, the doctors returned her compos
wumm, and sentence of death waa paat upon her•.
Dinn daya·put bet"een her being arraigned and
condemned; and in thia time one Hughes testified.
that her neighbour (call'd Ho"en), "ho was
eruelly bewitcb'd unto death, about siz years be-.
(ore, laid her death to the charge of this woman,
and bid her (the said Hughes) to remember this,
(or within aiz years there "ould be occaaion to
mention it. One of Hughes's children "aa pre•
eently taken ill in the aame "oful manner that
Goodwia's; and particularly, the boy in the night
time ory'd out, that a black person, with a blue
cap, in the room, tortured him, and that they try'd,
with their hand in the bed, for to pull out hia
bowela. The mother of tbe boy went unto Glover
the day following, and aaked her, " Why abe tor•
tured her poor lad at such a r&te ?" Glover
answered, " Becauae of the wrong she bad received
Crom her.;" and boasted " that she had come at him.
M a black person, with a blue cap ; and with her
Jaand in the bed, would have pulled bis bowela
out, but could not." Hughes denied that she bad
wronged her, and Glover then desiring to aee the
boy, wished him "ell; upon which he bad no more
of hie indiapoaition1. After the condemnation of
the woman, I did myself give divers viaits unto
her ; wherein ahe told. me, that ahe did use to be
at meetings, where her prince, with four more,
were present.- She told me who the four were,
and plainly aaid, tlial lier pnncd _, t~ dnll.
When I told her that, and how her prince bad
obeated her, ahe reply'd, " If it be 10, I am sorry
for that !n And when abe declined an1wering
aome thinga that I asked her, 1be told me, " she
would ain give> me a full auswer, ·but her apirita
would not give her leaH; nor could abe consent,"
aaid she, " without their leave, that I abould pray I
!or her." At her ezecution, she said the alllicted i
j
"Cooglc
lt8 WONDERS OF THE
~ildren should not be reliev@d by her death, for
others besides she bad a hand in their allliction.
Accordingly the three children continued in their
furnace as be(ore, and it grew rather seven times
hotter than it was. In their fits they cry'd out of
· ~and 11- as the authors of all their .miseries;
but who that 1"4y and them were, they were not
able to declare; yet, at last, one of the children
was able to discern their shapes, and utter their
ttames. A blow at the place where they saw the
-i>ectre, was always felt by the boy himself, in
that part of his body that answered what might be
stricken at: and this, though his back were turn'd.
and the thing so done that there could be no col-
luuion in it. But, as a blow at the spectre always
hurt him, so it always belp'd him, too; for after
the agonies, to which a push or stab at that had
put him, were over (as in a minute or two they
would bt>), he would have a respite from his ails a
considerable while, and the spectre would be
gone; yea, 'twas very credibly affirmed, that a
dangerous woman or two in the town recei•ecl
wounds by the blows thus given to their spectres.
The calamities of the children went on till they
barked at one another like dogs, and then purred
like so many cats. They would complain that
they were in a red-hot oven, and sweat and pant
as much as if they were really s11. Anon they
would say that cold water was thrown on them, at
which they would shiver very much.
They would complain of blows with great cud..
gels laid upon them, and we that stood by, though.
we could see no cudgels, yet could see tbe marka
of the blows in red streaks upon their flesh.
They would complain of being roasted on an in.o
•isible spit, and lie, and roll, and groan, as if it
h•d been most sensibly so; and by and by ahriek
that knives were cutting of them. They wouhl
Gelrlplain tb.t their he"11 war• nailed to &he Aoor,
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE.WORLD. 119'
,and it wa1 beyond an ordinary strength to J>11ll·
.Uiem from thence. They would be so limber
sometimes, that it was judged every bone they hd
might be bent: and anon so stilt', that not a joint
erthem could be stirred.
One of them dreamt that something waa grow-•
ing within bis skin, cross one of his ribs. An ei-·
.pert chirurgeon searcbt the place, and found there
·a bra11 pin, which could not possibly come to lie
.there as it did, without a prestigious and my1teri-
ous conveyance. Sometimes they would be very
mad ; and then they would climb over high fence1;
yea, they would fty like geese, and be canyed with
an focredible swiftness through the air, having bnt
just their toes now and then upon the ground
(aometimea not once in twenty foot), and their
arms waved like the wings of a· bird. They were ·
often very near drowning or bu~ning of themselves,
and they often strangled themselTes with their
neck-clothes; but the Providence of God 1till
orllerPd ihe seuonable succours of them that
looked aftet them. If there ·happened any mi1- ·
.chief to be done where they were, as the dirtying
of a garment, or spilling of a cup, or breaking of a
gla11, they woul<I laugh escesainly.
But upon the leaac reproof of their parents, they
.were thrown into· inexpressible anguhh, and roar
u exceasinly. k U6ually took up abundance of
lime to dress and undresa them, through the ·
etrange posturee into which they would be twisted,
on purp9ae·to ltinder it.
They were sometimes hindered from eating their
-'•• by h&ving their teeth set, when anything
was carrying unto their mouths. If there were
any discourse of God, or Christ, or any of the ··
thin111 whicb are not seen, and are eternal, they
would be cast into intolerable anguishe•. All
praying to God, and reading of his word, would
.occ11io11 them a lery terfible yezation. Their ·
0:;
Google
130 .WONDERS QF TllB
•11m eara would then be etopt ll'ith their ~·
hands, and they would roar and bowl, and sbrielr,
and hollow, to drown the voice of the devotions;
1ea, if any one in the room took up a bible, to look
10to it, though the children could see nothing f1l
• it, as being in a croud of spectators, or hning
their face1 another way, yet would they be ia
wonderful torments till the bible was laid aaide.
Briefty, no good thing might then be endured near
those children, which, while they were themselvee,
lov'd every good thing, in a measure that pto-
claimed in them the fear of God. If I said unte
them, " Child, cry to the Lord Jesus Christ!"
their teeth were in•tantly set. If I said, " Yet,
child, look unto him !" their eyes were instantly
pull'd so far into their heads, that we feared they
could nevn'ha•e used them any more.
It was the eldest of these children that fell
chiefly under my own observation, for I took her
'home lo my family, partly out of companion to
her parents, but chiefly, that I might be a critical
8)e-witneu of things that would enable me to
-eonfute the Sadducism of this debauched age.
Here she continued weU for some days, applying
herself to actions of industry and piety; but Not'>
:.tO, 1688, she cry'd out, " Ah, they hawe found.
me out!" and immediately she fell into her its-;
yherein we often obsened, that she would coug\ .
up a ball, u big as a small egg, into the side of her
wind pipe, that would near choak her, till by
atroaking and by drinking it wu again carry''
down.
When I pray'd in the room, first her hands ,,_
with a strong, tbough not evP.n force, clapt upoe
mer ears ; and when her hand1 were by our force
pull'd away, sbe cry'd out, "They make such a
noise, I cant hear a word." She complained that
Glo•er'a chain was upon her leg, and after aayi111
ao1 ber pit w.u exactly 1uch 11 the chained ll'i&N
Google
INVISIBLE' WORLD': rsr
litfi>re she died. When her tortures were passed
qrer, still frolicks would succeed, wherein she
would continue hours, yes, days together, talkingr
Jl!lrhaps never wickedly, but always wittily, beyond
b,erself; and at certain provocations her torment•
11oald renew upoa her, till we bad left otf to give
them; yet she frequently told us in these frolicks,
'J.lbat if she migh~ but steal, or be drunk, she·
allould be well immediately. She told us, that she
•u•t go down·to the bottom of our well (and we
1'ad much ado to hinder it), for they said there·
was plate there, and they would bring her up-
1,Cely again.
We wondered at this, for she· bad never beard'
el any plate there ; aod we ourselves, who bacl
newly bought the house, were ignorant of it; but
the. former owner of the house just then coming
ia, told ua, there had been plate for many years
lo1t at the bottom· of the well. Moreover, one ·
singular passion that frequently attended her waa
tlli1:-·
. An invisible chw would be clapt about her,
atid she. in much pain and fear, cry out when they
began to put it on. Sometimes we could with·
our bands knock it off; as it began to be fastened;
but ordinarily, when it was on, she would be·
pill'd out of her seat, •itb such violence; towards
the tire; that it was as much as one or two of us
eould do to keep her out; Her eyes were not
brought to be perpendicular to her feet when she·
l'Ole out of her seat, as the mechanism of a human
llody requires in them that rise, but she was
dragg'd · wholly by other bands. And if we
st&mp'd' on the hearth, just between her and the
Ire, she· screamed out, that by jarring the chain
1'e futrt her•
. I·may add, that they put an unseen rope, with a
enel noose, about her neck, whereby she was
Ueak'~·uatil-eh• wa1 black in the faoe: aad the'
"Cooglc
'lft WONDERS OF THE
it was got oft' before it had killed her, yet there
were the red marks of it, and of a finger and a
thumb near it, remaining to be seen for some
while afterwards. Furthermore, not only upon her
own looking into the Bible, but if any one else in
the room did it, wholly unknown to her, she •onld
fall into in•uft'erable torments.
Besidet these, there was another inexplicable
thing in her condition. Every now and then an
invisible horse would be brought unto her by
those whom she called th<lm, and her company,
upon the approach of which, her eyes would be
still closed up, " For," said she, " they say I am ·
a tell tale, and therefore they will not let me see
them." Hereupon she would give a spring as one
mounting an horse, and settling herself in a riding
posture, she would in her chair be agitated. as one
tometimes ambling, sometimes trotting, and some-
times galloping very furiously. In these motiO!Jt
we could not perceive that she was moved by the
atreas of her feet upon the ground, for often she·
touched it not. When she had rode a minute or
two·, she would seem to be at a rendezvous with:
her inrinble company, and there she would main-
tain a discourse with them, asking them many
questions concernmg herself (we gue her none of
ours), and have answers from them, which indeed
none but herself perceived. Then would she re-
turn and inform us, how they did intend to handle
her for a .day or two afterwards, and some other
things that 1he inquir'd Her horse woulcl some-
times throw her with much violence, especially
if any one stab'd or cut the air under her. But
she would briskly mount again, and perform her
fantastic journies, mostly in her chair, but some•
times also she would be carry'd from her chair.,·
out of one room into another, very oddly, in the
posture• of a riding woman. At length, she pre-·
:tended her horse could ride up the &taira ; ·an•·
INVISIBLE WORLD. I33
11nto admiration she rode (that is, was ton'd u
one that rode) up the stairs. There then stood
open the study of one belonging to the family,
into which entering, she stood immediately on her
feet, and cry'd out, " They are gone! they are
gone I They say they cannot - God won't let
'em come here!" And she presently and perfectly
came to herself, so that her whole discourse and
carriage was alter'd unto the greatest meuure of
sobriety; and she sate reading of the Bible, and
other f!OOd bool<s, for a good part of the afternoon.
Her affairs calling her anon to go do'vn again, the
dmmons were, in a quarter of a minute, as bad
upon her as before; and her horse was waiting for
her. Some then, to see whether there had not.
been a fallacy in what· had newly happened, re-
solved for to have her up unto the study, whern
she had been at ease before; but she wu then so
atrangely distorted, that it was an extream dif:.
iculty to drag her up stairs. The dmmons would
pull her out of the people's hands, and make her
h~uier than perhaps two or three of herself.
With incredible toil (though she kept screaming,
" They say Tmust not go in") she was pull'd in ;
where she was no sooner got, but she could stand
on her feet, and, with·an altei'd note, say, "NowI
am well." •
She would be faint at ·first, and Hy she felt
•omething go out of her I the noises whereof we
sometimes heard, like those of a mouse; but ·in a
minute or two she could apply herself to devo.tion,
and express herself with discretion, as well as ever
. in her life.
To satisfie some 1trangen, the experiment was
divers times with the same success repeated, until
my tothness to have any thing done, like making a
charm of a room, caused me to forbid the re-
petitio• ofit. But enough of this. The ministers
e£ Boston and .Charlstown kept anot.her d&f .of
, ,Google
134 WOND'ERS OF THR
prayer, with fastinll', for Goodwin's aftlicted (amity r.
after which, the children bad a sensible, but a,
gradual abatement of their sorrows, until perfect,
ease was restored unto them. The young wom:ua
dwelt at my house the r~t or the winter, huing_
"by a virtuous con,.ersation made herself ennuith
1'elcome to the family. But e'er long I tliougbt i~
eonvenient for me to entertain my congregation..
with a 1ermon on the memorable Providencea.
wherein these children had been concerned (after-
wards published). When I had begun to study
my sermon, her tormentors again seized upon her"
and managed her with a special design, as was..
plain, to disturb me in what I was then about.
In the worst of her extra,.agancies formerly, sbe·
was more du1iful to myselfthan I had reason to ex-
pect ; but now her whole carriage to me was with
a sauciness which I was not used any where to be
treated withal. She would knock at my study
41.oor, affirming, " That some b~low would be glad
to see me," though there wa. none that aslce<l for
me; and when I chid her for telling what was
false, her answer was, " Mrs. Mather is alwaya
glad to see you."
At last the dmmons put her upon saying that she
was dying, and the matter proved such, that we
feared she really was; for she lay, she tossed, she
pulled, just like one dying, and urged bard for
aome one to die with her, seemin~ loth to die
alone. She argued concerning death, with para-
phrases on the thirty-first psalm, in strains tbat
quite amazed us; and concluded, that though she
was loth to die, yet if God said she must, 1he mud t
adding, that the Indians would quickly shed much
blood in the country, and horrible tragedies would
be acted in the land. Thus the vexations of the
thildren ended.
But after a while they hPl(an again; and then•
011e particular millister, taking a partic~J4r CAll!ft<
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. 131
Jiasaion on the family, set himself to seffe them ia
the methods prescribed by our LOl'd Jesus Christ.
Accordingly, the Lol'd being besought thrice, ia
three days of prayer, with fasting, on this occasion
the family sa'v their delive1ance perfected; and
the children afterwards, all of them, not only ap-
proYed themselves devout Christians, but, unto
the praise o{ God, reckoned these their a11lictiom
among the special incentives of their Christianity.
The ministers of Boston and Charlstown after•
Wards accompanied the printed narrative of these
things with their attestation to the truth of it,
And when it was rP-printed at London, the famoui
Mr. Baxter prefixed a preface unto it, wherein he
aays, " This great instance comes witb such con;.
trincing evidence, that he must be a very obdurate
Sllddlli:ee that will not beliete it."
A Miracle.
A Christian Indian, living at Martha's Vineyard,
had his arm 1-0 withered, that he could ma'ke no
use of it. Upon which occasion he went unto
divers of his relations, desiring them to join with
·him in prayer for the speedy recovery of his arm.
He could find no faith in any of them about the
matter, except some little in his wife, with whom,
therefore, lie set apart a time solemnly to seek after
Christ, in the case which thus distressed him; and
behold, he was quickly afrer t!iis per{ectly re-
stored, unto the utter astonishment of all hia
neighbours.
It is a remarkable passage which Mr. Daniel
Rogers halh (in his l\aaman) about our New
English plantations, " Who can, or date, deny
bat that the calling of those Americana to 1he
,, Google
136 WONDERS OP TH-£.
bowledge or the troth may aeem a weighty oe•
eaaion to expect from God the gift of miracle.!,.
Behold, reader, the e:rpectatioo remarkabl7 ac•
oommodated !
Reader, pua thy jadgment oo a thing that bu
newl7 happened. The story ia published among
oa, and no body doth, or can, doubt the trutk
of it.
In Barwick, of our New England, there dwelt
Olle Epbraim Joy, as infamous a drunkard as, per•
haps, any in the world. By his drunkenness he noi
only wasted his estate, but ruined hia body too.
At tut, being both poor and siclc, and there,.ithal
hurried by sore temptations, a gentleman or Ports•
month, 6ut of pure cl1arity and compassion, took
him into his bou<e. While be lay ill there, the
approaches of dt>ath and hell, uuder his convictions
or hi• debauc~ed life, exceedingly terrified him.
Amidat these terrors, he dreamt that he made hia
appearanee before tbe tribunal of the Lord Jeaoa
· Cbrist, t.be judge of the world, by whom he wu
eondemned·; whereupon be had a sight of the
horrors in the state of damnation which was now
arresting of him. H.e cried with an anguish of
importunity unto the Judge for a pardon; but hia
Eternal Judge answered him, thu be would not
yet gin him an absolute pardon, but allow him
fourteen daya to repent: in which time, if he did.
repent, be should have a pardon. He dreamt, that
accordingly be repented, and wu pardoned, and at
the fourtf'en days end was receiYed into heuen.
The poor man declared his dl'f'&m to the people of
the hou•e, and sent for tbe help of minist,.1, and
o'1ler Cbristian1, and e:rpreaaed the huwiliationa
.~, Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. Lal
or a nry deep repeDtance. Aa he drew Dear hia
end, he grew daily more lively in the exercises 0£
hia faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, relying OD him
for salvation; until be confidently aaid, hi1 peace
was made with God. But behold, at the fl:rpira-
tion of the fourteen days precisely and e:ractly,
according to his dream, he died. Yea, he died
full of that great joy which gave DO little to the
1pectatora. 1
One of my honest Deighbours, whose name ia
Christopher Monk, brought me this account of the
accomplishment of his dream, and of his remark-
able deliveraDce Crom the Turks:-
In a ship of Bermudas, called the John's Adven-
ture, whereof I was muter, July 28, 1681, we
departed from Torbay, in the west of England,
Eight days after this we saw a •hip, about 8 A.)I.,
that gave us chase; and though we made what
aail we could to run from it, by 2 P.M. it came up
with us. It proved to be the Half-Moon, of
Algiers, who sent their launch on board of ua, and
carry'd us all on board the Turk's ship, except
one, wt.om they left to help them in &ailing of
oura. The captain having examined us of di.era
thing•, and robbed us of what silver or gold we had
about us, ll!Dt us forward among the other Chris-
tiana that were there before us, who entertained Ut
with aorrowful lamentations.
I have since reflected on it, that though formerly
l used morning and evening prayers with my com-
pany, yet in the course of our chase my fear1 and
cues made me have no heart for the duty, But
application of ourselve5 unto outward relief1 and
1~cond causes proved all in uin•
. On• of tbt MoorJ Wok aw•)' my Blblt1 which l
, ,Google
138 WONDERS OF THE
thol'«bt wu a aore judgment on me, because or
my neglecting to read it while I had it. But,
throueh the mercy of God, I had soon an old Bible,
which the Turks reckoned of little value, given to
me, Thia was my sweetest companion, and my
greatest consolation in my distress.
I usually read those places which, at my opening
of the Bible, fi111t offered themselvea unto me: and
often they would happen to be e:rceedingly perti-
nent unto my present condition: etpecially, many
passages in the 37th Psalm very much affected me.
Once, coming upon the deck in the morning, apd
ftnding most of all the Turks and Moors asleep, I
thought, that ir ( had been owner of a sharp knife
I C01'1d hatt cat the throa.t1 of a great many, witJ.-
01'1 maki!Og any noile; and withal communicated.
the notion to some of the English aboard, bow
easily we might conquer our adversaries, and mu-
ter the ship. Some consented, and prescribed a'
way; but one, more fearful than the rest, bid me
have a care what I said, for some among u1, be
affirmed, would toillingly betray o1'r tk1ign, 1'W
t1te lo11 of 01'r °""' li11e1. Hereupon I spoke no
more of it, but went down between decks to aclYise
with my Bible, and this was the scripture which
then occurred unto me:-" Cease frotn anger, and
forsake wrath : fret not thyself in any wise to do
evil, for evil doers"shall be cut off; but they that
wait on the Lord shall inherit the earth; for. )'et
a little while, and the wicked shall not be." Upon
this I wholly deaisted from my evil intent; and
resolving to take the achice of the Psalm, I alao
apply'd unto myself that scripture in Lam. iii. 26..
" It ia good that a man should both hope, an4
quietly wAit for the salvation of the Lord." And
that in Isaiah xlix. 24, 2.'I, and that in Isaiah liii.
3,4.
One moming, aa I slept upon some old Hils be-
twHn decks, I dreamed, that I was upoa an hill,
, ,Google
INVISIBLE WORLD. 13t
where was a little sort of a log house, like some
houses that I have seen in Virginia; that some'
who were with me bad young eagles in their
l!:snds, bruising and squeezing them in their hands
till they made them cry ; that there appeared, at
length, two great white eagles upon the top of an-
other bill, coming towards us, at the cry of the
young ones, to release them ; that for fear, lest the
old eagles might kill us, I, with several othen,
were put into the little house to sec.ure us; and
$hat hereupon the young ones were set at liberty;
and somebody said unto me, " For the crying of
the poor, for the s!Bhing of the nePdy, now will t
arise, saith the Lord; and I will set him at liberty
from him that pulfeth at him." I thought also
that I heard somebody cry out, "A sail ! a sail !"
And I thought myself upon the upper deck,
imagining that there I saw a ship or two. With
this I awoke, and went upon the deck; but aeeing
no other ship, I considered a little upon my dream,
telling it unto my mate, and adding, that I e:&•
~cled a 1peedy redemption.
I continued th us with the Turks till the ninth
of September: all which time they never otrered
me any abu•e, thou.11h they did beat other Chris-
tians very much, On that day, about eight in the
morning, a Christian at the fore-topmast head saw
three 1hips, one of which was a Frenchman, which
had been in our company the night before, and now
told the other two ships that they had seen a Turk
the preceeding evening. The two ships were two
1mall English frigates, the James galley and the
Seaface. ThE! Seaface, having a mau at the top-
mast bead, espied us, and made sail towards us,
and so did the James galley. We lay still until I
HW their sails above the water, like my two white
eagles, as white as snow, through the sun shininc
on them. The Turks"made sail to run from them,
J•l al night the Jame• galley came up with uaa
"Cooglc
,40 WONDERS OP TIIE
whereupon I, wi~h the rest of the Christians, was.
chained down in the bold. After a litlle dis-
course, they fired on our Turk• a Yolley of small
ahot, and a broadside. The Seaface seeing th~
boarded us; but in less than an hour's time she
lost her foremast, and bowsprit, and bead, and
about five-and-twenty men, and fell a-stern. Yet
the other, which was less than she, shot all her
mast away by two in the morning, and when it waa
day the Turks yielded their ship. Then they that
were leading us captive were themselves carry'd
into captivity, Sept. 10, 1681.
CBIUS'tOPHE.R MONK.
Mol~italiom from Et!il Spiritl.
These have so abounded in this countrey, that I
question whether any one town has been free from
sad examples of them. The neighbours have not
been careful enough to record and attest the p~
digious occurrences of this importance which hne
been among us. Many true and strange occur-
rences from the invisible world, in these parts of
the world, are faultily buried in oblivion. But
aome of those very stupendious things hue had
their memory preserv'd in the written memorials
of honest, prudent, and faithful men, whose Ye-
racity in the relations cannot without great injury
be question'd.
Of these I will now oft'er the publick some re-
markable histories, for every one of which we have
had such a sufficient evidence, that no reasonable
man in this whole countrey ever did queatioa
them, and It will be unreuonable to do It in any
other. For my own part, I would be as exceeci-
iD&ly afraid Of writiDi a faiH tbinf1U C)f doiq 8l
, ,Google
INVISIBLE WORLD. · };ti
flt' thing, but have my pen always move in the
fear of God.
In the year 1679, the bouee of William Mone,
at Newberry, was infeated with demons after a
most horrid manner, not altogetlter unlike the de-
mons of Tedwortb. It would fill many pages to
nlate all the infestatiuns, but the chief or 'em
were such as these:-
Bricks, and sticks, and atones, were often, by
some invisible hand, thrown at the house, and 10
were m•ny pieces of wood. A cat was thrown at
·the woman of the house, and a long atafF danc'd up
and down in the chimney ; and afterwarda the
same long staff was hang'd by a line, and awung
to and fro; and when two persons laid it on the
iire to burn it, it was as much as thev were able
to do with their joint strength to hold it there.
An iron crook was violently, by an invisible band,
-hurl'd about; and a chair flew about the room,
until at last it Jilt upon the table, where the meat
stood ready to be eaten, and bad spail'd all if the
people bad not with muclt ado saved a little, A
cheat wu by an invisible hand carry'd from one
place to another, and the doors barricado'd, and
the keys of the family taken, some of them from
the bunch were they were ty'd, and the reet flying
about with a loud noise of their knockin(<' against
one another. For one while the folks of the houie
could not sup quietly, but ashes would be thrown
into their auppers, and on their beads and their
eloath1 ; and the abooes of th<' man being left be-
low, one of them wu fill'd with ashes and coall,
.and thrown up after him. When they were a-bed,
a atone weighing above three pounds was divers
times thrown upon them. A bo:i: and a board was
)ikewiae thrown upon them; and a bag of hops
being taken out of a cheit, they were by the in•i·
1ible hand beaten therewith, till some of the hopa
wue -'&er'd OD the Aoor, where the bag wu th•
"Coogfc
141 WONDERS OF THB
laid and leCt. The man wu often struck by that
hand with seTeral instruments; and the eame
hand cut their good things into the fire: yea,
while the man was at prayer with bis household, a
beesom gave him a blow on his head behind, and
Cell down before liis face. When they were wio--
11owing their barley, dirt was thrown at them;
and assaying to fill their half-bushel with con1,
the foul corn would be tl.rown in with 'the clean,
10 irresistibly, that they were forc'd thereby to
glYe over what they were abcut.
While the man was writing, his inkhom was by
the invisihle hand snatch'd from him, and being
able no where to find it, he saw it at length drop
out of the air down by the fire. A ohooe was laid
upon bis shoulder, but when he would have catch'd
it, it was rapt from him; it was then clapt upon
.hit head, and there he held it so fast, that the uo--
aeen fury pull'd him with it backward on the toor.
He had his cap torn off hi• head, ind in the night
he was pull'd by the hair, and pinch'd, and
.•cratch'd; and the in•isible hand prick'd him witla
some of his awls, and with needles, and bodkins;
and blows that fetch'cl blood were sometimes
,given him. Frozen clods of cow-dung were often
thrown at the man; and his wife going to milk
the cows, they could by no muns preserve tb.
.veuels of milk from the like annoyances, wililla
111ade it fit only for the hogs.
She going down into the cellar, the trap-door
.wu immMliately by an 'invisible hand shut apca
_her, and a table brought, and laid upon the door,
which kept her there till the man remov'd ia.
When he was writinl( another time, a dith n.i
and leapt into a pail, and cast water on the mu,
,end on all the concerns before him, 10 as.to def.c
what he Wat then upon. His cap jump'd off IUt
head, and on again ; and tbe pot lid went ~ tllt
pot ioto the kettle, then over the 6rt togethet...:.i
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. 148
A little boy belonging to the family wu a prin-
cipal auft'erer in these moJ.,stationa ; for he waa
flung about at such a rate, that they Cear'd his
·braio1 would ban been beaten out: nor did they
-find it posaible to hold liim. Hia bed cl~thes
Yould be pull'd from him, hia bed shaken, and hia
bed-ataft' leap forward and bockward. The man
took him to keep him in a chair, but the chair fell
a dancing, and both of them were Yery near being
thrown into the fire.
These and a thousand such Ye:rationa. befalling
the boy at home, they carry'd him to liYe abroad
at a doctor'•· There he was quiet ; but returning
home, he suddenly cry'd out, he was prick'd on
the back; where they found strangely sticking a
three.-tin'd fork, which belong'd uRto the doctor,
and had been seen at bis houae after the boy's de-
parture. Afterwards his troublera found him out
at the doctor's alao, where crying out again he
was prick'd on the back, they found an irou spin-
·dle stuck into him; and 011 the like outcry again,
they found pine on a paper stuck into him ; and
once more, a lnng iron, a bowl of a spoon, and a
piece of a pan-•hred, in like sort stuck upon him.
He was token out of his bed, and thrown under
it; and all the knives belongin11 to the house were
one after another stuck into his back, which the
epectatora poll'd out; only one of them seem'd
unto the spectators to come out of his mouth.
The poor boy was diYen times thrown into the
fire, and preserY'd from scorching there with much
ado. For a long while he bark'd like a dog, and
then he.clocq•'d like an hen, and could not apeak
rationally. His tonl!ue would be pull'd out of bia
mouth ; but when be could recover it so far aa to
1pea1c, he complain'd that a man call'd P-1 ap-
peared unto him as the cause of all.
Once in the day-time he was transported where
DODI could Sod bim, till at la1t tbe7 foUJ1d him
, ~Google
1'« WONDERSOFTH'E
creeping on one aide, and sadly dumb and ·1mie.
When he was able to express himself, be said,
•• that P--1 had carried him over the top of the
house, and burled him against a cart-wheel in the
barn; and accordingly they found some remainde!W
Of the thresh'd barley which was OD the barn floor
hanging about his garments. ·
The spectre would make all his meat, when be
WU going to eat,. fly out of hia mouth; and in•
stead thereof, make him fall to eating of ashes;
and sticks, and nrn. The man and his wife tak·
ing the boy to bed with them, a chamber-pot with
its contents was thrown upon them. They were
1everely pinch'd, and pull'd out of the bed; and
many other fruits of devilish spite were tbey
dogg'd withal, until it pleas'<t God mercifully to
1borten the chain of the devil. But before the
de•il was chain'd up, the invisible hand, whicll
did all these things, began to put on an '&Stonis~
ing visibility.
They often thought they felt the band that
acratcb'd them, while yet they &aw it not; but
when they thought they had bold of it, it would
give them the slip. .
Once the fist beating the 111&n was discernible.
but they could not catch bold of it. At length ail
apparition of a blackamoor child shew'd it self
plainly to them. And another time a drumming
on the boards was heard, which was follow'd with
·a voice that sang, " Revenge ! revenge ! sweet is
revenge !" At this the people, being terrify'd.
QU'd upon God ; whereupon there follow'd a
mournful note, several times uttering these ell:-
presrions, "Alas! alas! \Ve knock no more, we
knook no more !" And there was an t'Dd of all. ·
On June 11, 1682, showers of stones -
thrown b\• an iuvisible hand upon the bnuae ~
·George Walton, at Portsmouth; whereupon tbit
i*>Ple going out, found the gate wrung olf tbl
"Cooglc
hinges, and atones flying and railing thick about
them,.•.,. .triking or tbem ••e•iogiy witla agreat
force, but really alfecting 'em no more than if a
eelt toluch were ginn' U1em. Tlia trlHa winctowa
."911! ltroken t«> piecee by atonea that caor1e 1IClt
fro• wicloiK, bat from withm ; and other inat19'o
- · were in like m•-r hurl'd alM>ut. Nine
Alf the atonet they took up, w9ereef some were •
.Jim all if tbey came out ol the 6re ; and marking
,tJiem, they laid thml on the table, bat in a little
WMle ahey·found some of them again flying alM>ut•
.Tlit 1pit wu canyd ap tlte cllimney, aad coming
dowa with tlae point forward, st\lc:lc in tlM baelr
log; from whence one of the company remoriag
.ii. it w• by an iDYisible hand thrown oat at the
'Window. Thia dMtarbaace continu'd from uy to
.day; 1111.& aomatimes a diamal· liollow whia1•iog
·woultl be heard, and aometinree the trotting and
<1hm'ting of ad horae, but aothing to be aeen. Tiii&
·-n went up the great bay in a. boat uato a rarm
.Jie bad there; t.at there·tbe atooea found him out•;
-1 carrying from tlie house to the boat & atirrup-
un, the iron C&ale jingling after him through tbe
·•oeda a.I far u hia hoiue, and at lut went a1n7,
-ad waa heard of DO more. The anchor 1
..p'd
.onr l>oard 1ereral times, ud atopt the boat. A.
,41la- •• taken out of tlae presa, and crurnblf'Cl
.U 011er the floor; a piece of iron etnek into the
.-II, -1 a ketde huug thereupon. Several ceola
of hay mow'd n- lha house were taken up; Ad
.Jaunt .upon .w.s, and o&hen ..de into amall
·riitpe, ·and ••ttered about the boue. The lnllll
•u.•11ch hart by aome of the ato- : he wu ·a
.Qaakilr, and auapHWd tlaat a -•11, who char&'d
hinl with i11ju,tice ia detaining so- land fr-
• dici by witchcraft o..sion tbfte preternatural
-rr•-· Ho--, al ~ they - uto
--- B
"Cooglc
146 . -
\
WONDERS OF THB
Among remarkable aea deli•eranees, no I•
tban three several writers hue publi1h'd that,
wherein Major Edward Gibbons, or Bo1ton ia
New England, wu concem'd. A nuel ltoani
from BOiton to some otht>r parts of America, wu,
thro' the continuance of oontrary winda, kept •
loog at aea, that the people aboard were in extreem
atraita for want of prowi1ion ; and aeeing tW
. ..,othing here below could aifom them any retiel,
they look'd upwards unto henea in bumble ·lall
fe"ent snpplications. The winds oontinuing atill
·as they were, one of the company made a aorro..,
flt! motion, that they 1hould by a lot aingle Ollt
,One to die, and by death to ntiafie the rueneaa
hunger of the reat. After many a doleful ud
f'nrful debate upon thi1 motion, they came to· a
nault that it must be done. The lot ia cut; -
Of t.be company is taken ; but where ia the ezeeil-
tioner that shall do the terrible ollice upon a poer
innocent ! It is a death now to think wbo nail
act this bloody part in the tragedy. Bat befGiw
they fall upon this in•oluntary and unnatural es-
ecution, they once more went unto their sealallt
prayers; and behold, while they were calling vpia
God, he a-
nswer'd them; for there Jeap'd a migliil:J
flab into their boat, which, to their double 711.,
not only quieted their outr.gioas hunger, but &lie
gHe them some token of a further deli•-
However, the fiah i1 quickly eaten ; the laorrible
·famine return•, the horrible diatr-.i1 rnewed·;
a black de1pair again nisea their apiritl. For -
other morsel they come to a second lot, whic:I! fell
upon another person, but 1till they cannot lad •
·t!secutioner. They once agaia fall to ·their n.pal-
b&nate pr1yet1 ; and, behold, a aecoad ......
Google
lRVISIBLE WORLD. 147
r.om aboH I A peat bird lis,fits and &set iuelf
upon &be mut ; one o( the men 1piea it ; and there
it 1tand1 until he took it by the wing wi&b hie
liand. Thia wu a 1econd life from the dad.
:l'hia fowl, with the omen of a further delive..-
in it, wu a 1weet feast unto them. Still their
disappointments follow them ; they can 1ee DO
l~, they know not where they are. lrreai1tible
hun1er once more pinche1 them ; they he1'8 no
hope to be aaved but by a third miracle. They
,return to another lot ; but before they go to \he
heart-breaking ta1k of slaying tbe penon und•
d•ignation, they repeat their addreasea unto the
God or beano, their former friend in adnraity.
Al}'l DOW they look, and look qain, but there ie
,JIOt!aing. Their deYotiona are concluded, and -
,jhing appeara; yet they hoped, yet they atayed,
, yet they lingred. At lut one of 'em 1pie1 a 1hip.
.,which put a new hope and life into 'em all. They
,,~ar up with their 1hip, they man their long•boat,
.•~hey beg to board the n11el, and are admitted.
-It prona a French pirate. Major Gibbon• .,..
titian• for a little bread, and olrera all for It; bu&
&he commander wu one who bad formerly re-
'"i"'d conaiderable kindne11ea of Major Gibbona
.at Boaton, and now replied chearfully, " Major
,Gibbont, not an hair of you or your company 1hall
prieb, if it lin in m.y power to prea•r•e you.''
,Accordinaly he supplied their nece11iti•, ui4
u#.MJ made a comfortable end of their YOJ'le.
........·~
;1
''"
~;,,, I,et Mandel1loe tell of hit poor Fl-ing, who
,..,\hied an inaularfanchorite upon a de1olate itland
1_..J moot"' together; I bate a 1tory that UaU
,ia mo8' thin&• equal it, and in ao•e es-4 it. ,
"Cooglc
14't WOMDRRS OP Tl:llt
011 A~. 113, 1676, MT. Eplwilnt How, witli'TrH
two eontri did 1et aail ·from New-Ha•en for~
ten, in a tmatl 'kelch of'aboat seftnteen ton ; and
ret11rning· from Boston for N.,..Jfivfn, Sept. ii;,
tonSl'tlry 'lriads detain'd him flrr· eome tnnl!, nc'j
then illa4!1s and sloknen, till a month·expi'reil'.
lh then renewed bk nlv~ as far as Capll·Cud~
'llut eulldeftly the weatb-er became 10 temp8t•~
that h fbrted'lhem off to sea, whe'te ~ outrqedu9
Wt.ills anti tellf did often almost OY~llelm· them•;
Di here in al>out eleven day. bis elder ion cHec!z
IDMl in a few- d_,.; iaore his yo1111ger. It is notea
ta 1 Cbra&. vii. 22, thlrtThen the SODS of E'phhflll
wete elm, Epbraiin thiif:I" fathi!T mourned lll'lltf
ltayw, alld bis -bretbren cameto comfbrt hlt!t; n4
oar -•rni"' Epbl'lli'm·could not ltbe any ~ntflitt
frerJ'j hi• friends on 1ho1r, -wflen hit t'lr'O ·lieM
were thus dead ; but they IHM &rte; to ll&l;f atlf
bepeful a manneP, thaMhtlr 18thl!r"ll'as·ttlit WitJll.
dat bis consolations. Hnweftl', their atrai~ ·ad
fftl'9 W'l!'re fl<>W inereu'd, as their hands Wt!~
dhriitllsh'il; 'and aiiotbeor ol the company soon· aftiJr
~!Id like the former. Half the company was now
pie; and Mr. How; tho' m11 nry weal stilt<f df
4leelth; ·n- stanch atthe helm twenty-roli'r llouH,
·allll ·thlrt:r-sii: ho•n at a tfme, with the rualt
..,.ntftying o- lhll wuel at such a rate, t'hat k
'he had· not· been 16sll'd fist, lie must Jia'f'e bl!llla
i..h'ct oter•lloarc!. In tlli1 erttelbity be 1'ai'&fa
losa wketber be·ahouht penlat in "riring-fonW.
New England •bore, or bear away to the Soutbera
laland1 ; and propo1ilJT-1be mitter to cine Mr.
Augur (who, with a boy, was all that were left ~r
.his help), they.Ant-1oqlt llit• God by earnest
praye~ In this difficult case, and then d~!ermined
·the dilliealty bT ca1t4ng" a Jot;• . 'flllll lot ll!W Cqr
N•w•Bdgland; •lld ere1'.111011Wli W.~re.I ·~
;lllft Ille' natcl...''Of' 11"!jj Mtl'e), with -~ tWJ
loac. aa,-,. wf·'Nkir·~ · Ja1Alinlep~
, ,Google
-
~!SIBLE WORLD, 14~
~n41tion tl1ey continued a for~nig!>t: and thus,
(or 1jx weeks together, Mr. \J:oiv, tho' lauouring
under much infirmity, was hardly ever dry. Nor
h,a.d they in all this while the benefit of warm food
111ore than thricP, or thereabou.ts. When the
i.enmih week dawned upon them, the vessel waa
driven on the ,tailings of :> ledge of rocks, where
\be sea broke with no little violence; and lookinf
out, they spied a dismal, doleful, rocky island unto
\he lee-ward; upon which, if the providence 0£
~od ))ad not by the breakers given 'em tim~Jt no•
tice, they had been dash'd in pieces. This extre•
mity was heaven's opportunity ! They immedi-
ately let go an anchor, and got out the boat, and
Go.d m.ade tl1at storm a calm, so that the waves
were still. Being under the astonishments of the
circumstances now upon them, they touk little out
pf the vessel; ~ut when .ti/er came a shoar, the,
found themsehes on a desolate island (near Cape
:?ables), which had not either man or beaat upon
lt.; and a prospect of being, therefore, stuved
q11icldy to death, now stared upon them. While
they wer.e und.
er this deadly prospect, a storm
arose that staved their vessel to pieces, from
?hence a cask of powder was brought a shoar, I\
\>arrel of wine, and half a barrel of mollossas, to-
gether with several other thing~. which Msisted
them in making a sort of tent, for their preserv&•
tion from the terrible cold. However, new and
sore distresses now attended them ; for though
they liad powder, with other necessaries for fowl-
ing, there were seldoll,! any fowls to be seen upon
this forlorn island, except a few gulls, crows, and
ravens, a.od these were so few, that tll!'re could
be rarely more than one shot at a time. Often•
tiwe. half a one of these fowls, with the liquor,
l"Jde a meal for three. Once they lived five day11
J'ilhout aoy tlUtenaRce a& all; durina all whida.
"Cooglc
110 WONDERS OP THE.
apace, they did not fffl tbemsehes pincb'd ·with·
hunger as at other times, which they esteemed a
apecial fuour of heaven unto them. When they
had bfen twelt't weeb in this lonesome condition,
Mr. How's dear friend, Mr. Augur, died; and
the lad alto died in the April following. So -that
hit lonesomeness wu now become u muc:h u auy
hermit could have wished for. For a long and a
sad quarter of a year together now, he saw fishing
nsaelt enry now and then tailing by; but though
he used all p1111ible means to acquaint them with
his distre1Se1, either they saw him not, or they
fured lest some of the Indians then in hostility
against the English might be quartered there.
The good man, while thus deserted, kept many
days in prayer, with fasting, wherein he confessed.
and bewailed the many sins whic:h had rendred
him WO• thy or these calamities, and cried unto
God for his deliverances. But at lut it came into
his mind, that he ought very at>lemnly to giTti
thanks unto God for the manellous prese"atiou¥
•hich he had hitherto esperienc'd; and accord~
ingly he set apart a day for solemn thanksgi•ing
l'lnto God, his gracious preserver, for the divine
favours which had been intermixed with all h~
troubles. Immediately after this, a vessel be-0
Jon~ing to Salem did pass by that island ; and
teeing this poor servant of God there, they took
him in. So he arriv'd at Salem Julr 18, 1617'
.and returned .unto his family at New-HaYCn. ' f
Vuio111 oatl Strang• Occurrmee1.
· William Davies, with nine sailers, whereof Ollll
was a negro, and one boy, an•l one passenger, sail'll
·Out of .Boston, Dec.:2S, 169~, in the 1hip ca~
"Cooglc
IKVISIBLE WORLD; 151'
'l'1w M<Wgord, oC about eighty ton1, bound for
Barbadoea, laden 'll'ith fish, beer, and a email par-
nl of lumber. Withia a Ce.,. day1, one or the
Hilen, named Winlock Curtis, being at the helm,
about 8 o'clock at night call'd unto the captain,
telling him that he could steer no longer; where-
of, when the captain ask'd him the reuon, be be-
aougbt the nid captain to think him neither
drunk nor mad ; and th•n added, that be bad but
a little time to tarry here; constantly affirming
tberewithal, that a spirit appearing by the biddekel
accus'd him of killing a woman (which the sailer
aaid that he had left aliYe), and reported nnto hirn
that the rest of the ship'• company had signed
Tlat! Book, which be wu from that argument now
arg'd also to sign. The sailer declared his resolu-
tion that he would neYer hearken to the devil, and
reque•ted that he might be furnished with a bible,
in the reading whereof he wu at first greatly in·
terrupted; but at length he was able distinctively
to read it. On the day following, he was violently
and auddenly seized in an unaccountable manner,
and Curiously thrown down upon the deck, where
be lay wallowing in a grP.at agony, and foam'd at
the mouth, and grew black in the fac.,, aml waa
Dear strangled with a great lump rising in hit
neck nigh his throat, like that which bewitch"d. or
poaaets'd people use ~o be attt>nded will.al. In a
tew days be came a little to himself, but still be-
hued himself as one mllch under the power of
tome devil, talking or the visions which he aaw in
the air, and of a spirit coming for him with a
boat. 'fhe ship's company, to prevent his going
OYerboard to that iodsible spirit, which h" aL•
temptf'<i once to do, confin'd him to his cabin, and
there ty'd him, and bound hint so that they
thought they had him fast enough ; but he soon
came fortb without noise, lo their ~reat astonish-
llleot. He then fell into a 1leep, wherein be con-
, ,Google
!«I WONDERS OP TB&
ti••'• Cor twenty·Cour hours; aflfl w-'ll lie cllllN
te himself, •nd remain'd very eeaaible, giviog a
)IM'ticular narrative of tlae odd circ1unstanc:et.
1!'ltiela lae had bt>"'l in.
Upon Ian. 17, in tbe north lat. 19, sailiDS.
S. W. with a fresh gale eaat, and E. and by S..
altout 9 at night, a smalt white cloud arose wit...
·eat rain, or any ntraordinary increase of wiacl.
•hicb falliog upon the ship, immediately preMed
1ier down to etarb.,ard at once; and the hatchet
tring out, ehe was immediately so fall a( water,
\hat it was impossiiile to recover her. IC she had
not been laden with lumber, slae must have e&M
to the bottom ; whereu !lOW being full of water,
which drown'd the boy sleeping in the cabin, die
soon righted. but tloated along overftow'd with·u.e
aea, after this, for eleven weeb together, io which
tim" there hapned the ensuing pauaies :-
. First, within a few days, one Mr. Diba, the
paHenger, who formerly had been very undaunted
imd couragious. began to talk oddly or ae\'eral per•
sons in B&rbadoes ; adding, that one stood at tlae
main.mast, who came for him with a wherry,
And soon after this he was gone insensibly, 11oae
knowing wht>n, or bow. About a fortnight after
thi•, one J<,bn Jones waa in the same insensible
Dl!lnner.carry'd away, and ao w.as the above·m-
tion'd Winlock Curtis. Within about a fortuigbt
more, one of their number dy'd, throu11h the lltl•
conqnerahle dilliculties of the voyage. Aod eboul
a fortAi11ht further, the negro, sitting as not la hi1
right mind, and another tailer, wel'e in the nijlal
inseusihly carry'd away. About a week after, .,..
Sterry Lion, the carpt>nter. not being ia uiy dil•
order of mind at all, often spoke of liis end beia1
at hand, and that it would be by a wave of the
aea, (etching him away. Hitn they saw CVf1'4
•way "Y a 1Va•e about nine a-clock in the morning.
All tbia wliile their food waa oaly lletht '.INH1ll
"Cooglc
~ey eat raw, because they could l)OW ha:re no
$re; i\lld fresh fish, ,.hich in great quantities cMae
jp~o the v~se\ onto them. At several times, ui
•specill'lly before the taking away of a11y of thei.t
.Jlll1Jlber, thH 1'eard v~ri9us and wondrous noi&"•
like the vpice Qf birda, aa turk,ys and other ro.,1.
While they were in this condition they saw three
ve&$,l~, and judg'd that all ~he three saw them;
aeverthe~ess, none came a-near them to relieYI!
i.hem.' 'Ttwir lodging was on t\\'O bo1L.rds placeti
·.athwart the rail, near the taft'ril, covered with a
a&il : ,and the first land they discovered was Do-
r.iado, but a northerly current hindered their l&nd-
ing there. The n~xt land was Grand Terra; hilt
the wind in the north hindred their laµding there
.11.lkQ. At last, with a little sail, being ~educ'd ua-
&o three in number, they ran thei.r sqip. ashore at
Guadalupa, the 6th of April, about 2 a.clock o•
,Monday morning, where the Frenc\l kindly e.oter-
tain'd tnem, not as prisoners, but as traveUen.
Theuce ~hey C!lme to Barbadoes, and there t~ty
111ade oath to the truth pf tqis narratiH.
S,ore Calamjliei at &a furvioe4,
A small Yelle! •et sail from Bri.stol &o N-·
l'.ng\an.d, Sept. 23, 168~, wi!Ji the maater, waaae ·
ti•llll' was William Outten, There were MH•
aiea a-bvard, ha.ving pro~iaioas for three moa~a;
pu& by con.trary ivind,s they were twealJ weelra
lie£ore they could m'lke any land; •nd by o&ur
¥
i•-.t.,1 and dis~ressea it waa rendnid Yery DD~
kely that ever t~y should make any laad u all,
, be fi11rce winds upon the couta 9£ NPw-Ea1knd
JlllM).e the"1 cow;lude, on Dec. 12, thot.t they w'o11:d
lle1n ll.1'&Y for Barliadoes; but \:lefor& tbia tht J
p-qa.. ~~ el o.f jh,i~" J>eer> )y:ilw ~ a.:.t
, H 4 '
"Cooglc
- ~ ·
\A WONDBRS OF THE
brohn out 1 and ba.in1 but 1nen 1-nwls iii'
w11ter, three of them leek'd away. When tlwir
'tielual1 fail'd than, the merciful God, whow la;
tu 1ea, for he made it, aent them a 1upply, ht
.•u1in1J dolphin• ewery now and then to come .o
•ear their nsael as to be catch'd: yet it wu o.,.
Mt'Yable that they could uner catch auy bot in M
ntream ._1ity ; nor aoy more than would M?Te
~heir pn11ent n.ce11lty. Ba& their miaery, tbro' '
tlae 1r&11t of water, wu nry 10re upon th- : for
tho' they tried much to take the raiu ,..t1r whea·
any fell, the 'lrincl1 were u1ually IO furio-, dlat ·
they could NH li&tle, if any, of it Rowenit, '
when they oame near the latitude of BermadU', ·
they did, unto thttir great joy, NH two barrell.of
rain water: but then, the rats unespectedly eat•
'.itig hol• in thtt barrel1, all that water w'aa loat
egaia. Once when a 1bower of rain fell, they
MW'd a pint, which, tho' it were made •ery bitter
by the tar, yet it wa1 a sweet watf!I' unto their
tltinty 1onl1 : and they diYided it amonw ••••,
ddokiog a thimble-full at a time, whiek welll' ·
iwe times about. On Ian. n, a good •bcrh. cl"
rain fell ; and that tln!y aaigbt pre1ene it, &her"'
laid their. linnen1 Clpf'n to the rajp, and wrinlinf :
them dry.. they olltafo'd aewea gallona of .....,, "
which being bottled up, wu a great alld a Jpaf:i
mre1hmeot unto them. New 1trait1 then ....:.;
upon them. They catch'd, ,Jrith m1,1ch &1100 tlt1'9!:1
or feur of the rah that had cheated tloe• of.' tlllW•
driak, end made of 'em a meat, which te- ~"
fami1fi'd 1oull did - wery delicate. · lhlt dlir:t'
1or-nt of tbnr drought grew in1upponabltl: fdW.11
som~imta they had not a drop of any fre1b -...t#•
1
for & whale week together. Wiien they ldlled::a-q
dolphin, they would 1uck hi1 blood fer the ·retief•l
er tlpeir tbi,.t; yea, .their tbi'8t ca111ed dinii·• 'd
dri11k large quantitiel oraalt water, whicb yet t""1"
il>Ullll allaf'd it 11ot. T.bey would go --...11
Google
INVISIBLE WORLD~ t5S
'1rith a rope futned about them, that by dtenchlnr
themsel..ea awhile in the aea, they might eaae the
aternal heat which pareh'd them ; and when they
..ood any of them to lteer the nssel, they would
we their feet in a pail of sea water to refrigerate
'em. In this calamity some of the seamen peni:-
tAtatly eonfeaaed, bow just it was with Goel tbul
to punish them who bad intemperately abused
t\emsel\'ea with cl1ink 10 ofteu in their former
~raation. But at length, on Feb. 7, they met
with a Guinea man, who supplied 'em with necea•
.ariea, and 10 they got safe in unto BarbaclOH',
{rem whence they afterwards made their Yoyage
~ New-England. .
w.,..i,,.f"' Dinrarer, GM mou WOlllllf'jW
Ddiwr11•cu.
· ·A nwmber of marlnen, in a small pink belong•
lq1o Boatoa, call'd the Bk,.ing, were taken bf
n balf•plley of crael Spaniards, on April I, 168!,
~lio 'put them all immediately into their bold, ft•
•the master and.mate, the latter of whicla tbef
eor-ated by twisting a piece of aea-net about hii
·~· 1111til hia eyee· were ready to start out ; and
then+.hanging him up by the two thumlll to make
biqa omfeaa what money they had aboard; b11'
•1Mll ,they AW he would confes1 nothinr, they
......f•t a rope about bis neck, and uked their
---.rf'r whether they should hoiae him up or
not~· They aontulted also whether they should
D«!l ·nntt all the men; but not agreeing on that
po.in.I, ·they concluded on somewhat no Iese trucu•
lfti lllld barbaroD1. They kept one of the men ot.
~ oa whnm they afterw,rds exercised bloody
Cl'ffkiee; and the other 1ir belonging to the n111<l
tliefMuaa 4ispea'cl of-They carried the poor intia
"Cooglc
PtOUI ilie maap>~e t..-,tltat gr.ew UflO:O an· .....
Jacent island, and stripping them stark-~
lbey caused each of them to tum their b'¥'ks ~
t~ branch of a tree, and spread Lbei,r arm• abr~
jn 'tfbich postUl'e they bound the arQla of fla4h !UM
.to the brancbea, two by two, about a quarter Cl( .a
,mile di~t.ance be.t11Jeen the sev.
eral ,cpuple;a, tbljf
leaving tbem to perish without any pily. Thllf
•too!! .up to the i;nid-leg iq wa.ter, their feet COllf
tiguous, and their faces turned so that. thllY. m~
11ee e1>oeh others 111iseries. But, abo~t thrf!!l hoU¥
after, one of these men upy'd a atic.lc, wilb. f.
j:roQk at pne end, not Car from him; whereup<141,,W
said unto bis companion, " If it..pleaae GqlJ t.,
we might get that stick into our bands, it mig!it
be a means to work OIJr. deli•erance ;" and there-
upon trying to bring the stick towards them with
tbeiffeet, in a Uule-tit~1e they batti¥JJ,etl"<lC\!¥1 it.
and so bore it up with their feet, that at last the
man got hold of it with bis hand, and herewith, by
.deg~. they looaed the knot .tl\at .was- upow..tbe
.bo'l"ing of their arms, and s\lifting it in\o.. AW
fing11rs, did by little .and little get $0 far in IQfl~i.liig
h, that° tbev qui~ µndid it, setti11& tbe~~l:v,...1~
liberty. Now, relttraing their tba,11"5 W \~e ~
t1C l\eaven .for belpjpg theD;1 I.bus far, tl1ey h~
,unto the l1elp of their desp!J.itipg Cr~m;lt. 1$,.t
.tbir neii.t care ·"'M, !\ow to ke,ep tbemse.l'·~. Oi1M.Gl
~be sight of those ba~l/aro.us wr•tclws, Crom .,rll~
they bad receive this µsage ; yet they h.,ci no\a•
.above • mile, before they s,py'd &1111\• 9f ~­
~u .a.u high tree to dis.cove.r ~ip• I.Mt J111W
!that "!Vay. Upon this they """".
411 &Ur~h~, .t4Jit
.they ran among the thickets, wid lost one .~~.
_and met not again till the third night after; ~ •.,µ
,which time lbey found no water, but li'*'d;t\w~
.frqm the lea.ves of the pla,n.ls tber~abqu,t~ ,, ., ,
. WhHks and crahs were &jiei( \>est .food, ~
~y h-'1 Djl\Ch .ad,o \o l!tilem~ tll!nwchtll·WllP
,
"Cooglc
JllVISJBLB .Waa:tD, lift
aiing feod ·to otbtt d_,rere. But a•ooa *'
fbud a well wiab a barrel .in it, where tbey 1'e-
1elffd they would wait for belp or death. OD
.April 13, die mate (naDMly, Charlt11 Cre&clieL)
With two more (namely, Robert Pierce and Pewr
~lement) of these di.tn•ed people, made a Taft
with 1ueh wood aa they found on tlie l11and, Miil
put to aea.
On April 19, the master, and the two teCt 9i&h
•im, followed the e:i:ample of the -te llDd hill
two, in making & raft fM' a YDYaf!f' to le&; bot ..
they were goiug to put oft', they espy'd a couple el
Pila; upoo which they belOok themael•" unto
tlle wateJ', that they might get unto these nnels,
which at length took them up. These two -aei.
were a eoaple of canoos, hulog three 9letl apin•,
who kept them thirty•two days, and then CU"1'd
them into Havannah, where the governour, notwith-
standing they fairly !'elated uulo him their circum-
1tances, kept them in prison eighteen days, without
llllowkig them any food : 10 that if they had not
recei..ed some uastenaoce from a few poer Englisla
prisoners who bad been there before them, thep
llld ~en perfectly lta"ed. At laat they undera
ltood that their ship was in that harbour, and the
penons who took ber: wlaereupon they petitioned
the goTernour that they might have their abip
agmin, Inasmuch u Ibey could make no legal prise
of her, for abe had DO Spanish 11oode aboard.
Their retition wu vrau:ed, and their ship (though
-.pty'd of e.ery thing but her ballast) waa re-
ltored auto them: nor could they, by a new
petition, obtain any thing but her sails, ani
lftme miall pa1 t of her lading, that had not 11.-
di<poscd of.
· On June 10, the hunters baTlng taken up Robwt
Pierce and Peter Clement, and brought them Into
1f&Tam1a; the 11o~ernour esamlned tt.em what wu
liftome er their mawa, .and &ABf told lllm, \Ma
, ,Google
es WONDBRS OF THB
.., were fin days at - upon the raft, and w ·
only two c:rab1 all this .while to 1ubaist upon ; ancl
thea, by the wind, they were dri•en upon the samlt"
imland which they bad left, where they wandered
up and down for a month together, and in their
&ruel1 101t their mate, who was, through 1nalc-
·-, unable to travel. Herenpon the goYemour
aent them aboard also : aud, the night before they
aailed, the hunters informed the govemour, that
they had likewise taken up the mate, alive; but
tlae governour hurried them away in such haste,
that they could not know the certainty thereof;
aDd 10 they prosecuted their voyage for Boston,
whither they came, well nigh 1ta"ed with cold,
llOt ha..ing any more clothes than a canvas froc:k for
eaeh man, which the turtlera bad be1towed upoa
them.
We will add one more, which is a late and a
fresh instance, and attested beyond all contradic:•
tion.
· On the 16th of October, in thi1 present year
1697, there arriYed at New Ha..en a sloop ofabout
60 tons, whereof Mr. William Trowbridge wn
muter; the Vtt11>l belonged unto New Haven,
the persons on board were seven, and seventeen
long weeks had they now spent since they c:ame
from their port, which was Fayal. By so un-
usually tedious a pusage, a terrible famine un-
avoidably came upon them ; and, for the five last
weeks of th..ir voyage, they were so destitute of
all food, that through faintneH they would ·-ht.Te
chosen death rather than life. But they were'&
praying and a pious company.and when these pow
men ary'd unto t/11J Lord, /111 /&eord, and •-" fM!il.
God sent hi1 dolphins to attend them, and of theie
they caught 1till one enry day, which wu eaooilh
'" ~Google
INVISIBLE WOltLD, Ht
w aein them ; only on Saturday'• they still
catched a couple, and oa the Lord'• daya th•y
could catch none at all. With all poasible 1kill
and care they could not supply themselv" whla
she fish in any other number or order ; and indeed
with a holy blush at lut they left olf trying to do
Jny thing on the Lord'• days, when they were IO
well aupply'd on the Saturdays. Thus the Lord
kept feeding a company that put their trust in
li(m, as be did hia Israel with his manna; and thw
Uiey continued until the dolphioa came to that
~e of water where they used to lene th•
v-11; then they 10 strangely surrendered them•
eelves, that the company took twenty-seven ef
them; which not only sufficed them till they
caine aahore, buf also some of them were brought
ashore, dry'd, at a monument of the diTine b~
Dignity.
ForekUlng of T/ai•g• to CoJM.
From relating of iliings past, it would no doubt he
very acceptable ta the reader, if we could p:iss to
foretelling of things to come. Our curiosity in
this point may ea.•ily come to a deg1ee culpable
and criminal, We muat be humbh content with
~bat the God, in whose hands are our times, bath
7j!Vealed unto us.
Two things we will venture to insert•
. FirH-For ourselH9 at home, let Uft remember
the awful aayiog of our Goodwin, quoted by my
leverend friend Mr. Noyes, in bis late excellent
term.
on at our annivenary election.
. " /u you look for storms in autumn, an<l frostt
lo winter, 10 expect judgments where the gosrl
)la.th bHn preached ; for the quarrel of the cov..
"""' muat be avenaed.
"Cooglc
"8 W!OKDKR! OP TB&
Secoadly--For the •rola ab..t, I - C•
tfem dnerti•g what waa allM6ted in the 1enao11
rreacl1ed at ou armiHraarJ electioa, in &he·reac'
6ff:-
.. T.,e tidinga which T bring unto you are, thl
"-eoe ie a REVOLUTION aacl a RBFOR.MA•
TION at tbe ver1 door, whicb will be vastly WION
yenderlul tba• any of the delinraooetiyet IND b1
\be clmrch of Go.t, from 0.. beginning of the
.,Id. I do not HJ' ~bat the next year will briog
"Uiil happJ' period, but this I cio iaJ, the llifJ8er
}MK af &laia uaembly _,., in &he conrte of D&llllre,
liH to aee it. Th- tbinga will come on with
~rrible commotions, and coucunion•, 1111d -
fuaione. The mighty angels of the Lord Jeau•
ll'ill G>&ke taeir descent, and set the w.orld·a .trem-
llling at the approaches of theii Almighty Lord 1
they will shake nations, and shalce church'9,--
ahake mighty kingdoms, and 1/iake ot1ee more, ISOl
eartl• Oflly, but heatm• al10."
Unto these two thin111 mv reader will not mis•
improve it, I hope, if I add a tbii:d, lately fallen
into my hands, and nner yet 10 exposed unto the
phlU:k.
A W-U,.ful Ma.tt~ Iacc..tatabl.y ~
awl much duiretl by aome good t11n to be i• tlill
pla« commu,.icated.
Ma. JORN 8ADLE1l, a Yet¥ Jeamed and• ~
pious man, and a most ezemplary Christie, laf
tick in his bt!.d, in his Manor of Wannwell, in Dor·
1etahire, in the year 1663 ; in the time ot ll'fe f...
•ass he ll'&a vuited by Mr. Cuthllert Beund, tht
1Dinister of Warmwell. ., :.
• Mr. Sadler then desired his mall (one Tholila1
Gray) &o aee tha& there should be .. llodf ti"
'" ~Google
tfm91BLE ·W01LJ.11. , 111
Jll the rOOll9, llllli ·lock tff door, end 9ift·him:tJit
key. ·
. He t\ea •at up in bis bed, an Mired )fr. Bwnd,
and 'be attendant Gray, whether they .... lie
bod'1 ! and whether they did not hear ,.... . a
perao1a aaid, that stood at the co.rner o( die c._
ber? They n1plied, " No." He ..ondmid .. it,
. aadAid, "The man spake so loud, thaUM 'tfllole
pcisb ·might hear htm."
He11eupo11, calliag (or a pen and inlr, lae ....ote
what was telcl lrim, and made tbem set theit- henm
to.K ; fer be told tltem, ." The man woulcl llOt·"9
eone till he had seen that done.
The artisles written down -r-
1. ·That there would, after so •aay montli11, \e II
P8U& in LondGll, whl'-1 ·H 111any wt>uJd die
(...-ing the· aucallorr}.
ll Tbat·the greatnt.part 'Of die cit}' Ye.dcl lie
burnt, and Paul's,. he particularly &bowed hila,
,tllmltk!4 down into nlins; u if beaten d4trn 'lfitl&
peat.tun•.
HI. That tltere wnld be three •-tlghta .._
h'eea •he Enclialt ••cl.tbf D1ttcb.
IV. That there would appear three W..-,
eiUJ; the Jut af WMh· would be terrible to be-
laold. Ha aaid the 111• alwnr'd him the star.
V, That afterwards 'here wo11ld oo,.. th-
:._.u abips te land, ia the west of Wttjtneudt,
·•llMlh would put ·a11·E•11incl ia- • upr-, bllt c
.wo!JW oome a. net.hing.
VI. That, In the year 1688, tuN would c-•to
I'"' such a thing in tlae llilf8dom, u all the world ·
woqld ttb notice af.
· ., VU. T.ht Mier tAK,111111 after some furtbtr dia-
t11rbance, there would be happy timea ; and a won•
,...,"'' Uiiq, wOllld. ..-w,....wbift ~ ...,not
--~dealare.
, , VHJ.. TP* IM &M·hla1.., 'Gtay) 11aoU1.eie
,, Cooglc
111 WONDERS OF TH.
Were the accomplishment of these things, baf
Kr. Bound should live to see it.
IX. P~r the confirmation of the whole, the man
thus appearing told him, that he should be wen
the nest day; and that there would come three
meo to •ilit him, one from Ireland, one from
Gueruey, and his brother Bingham.
Aecordingly, the day following, Mr. Sadler went
abroad; and this day there accidentally met at bi&
house, and 10 dined with him, first the Lord S&eel.
who had been Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and 11ow
retuning from thence, in his way to London, came
to 1ee Mr. Sadler; secondly. Monsieur de .. ·
Mareh, a FrHtch minister from Guernsey; an4
laatly, hi1 brother Bingham.
Mr. Bound and Gray, within three daye an'et
this, made affida•it of it before Colonel Gila.
Strangwayee, and Colonel Cocker, who ia yet
aliYe. .
Mr. Daniel Sadler, and Mr. John Sadler, tbll'
aoni of this old Mr. Sadler, Y&ry serioue an4'.
wcirthy Chri1tians, are at this time living in Rot:-
terdam ; one of them is bis majesty's agent fo\0
transportation.
Mr. Daniel Sadler, making bis application• to
Mr. Bound for his testimonyabout this matter, the
Mid old Mr. Bound, in a letter dated, Warmwen;
Aug. 30, 0. S. 1697, assert• the matter at tarp
unto him ; and subscribes, " This I shall tetti&e
before the king himself, if occasion be, when lie
90mea into England.
"Yours
"~RBJ:•T BOOND0 ~~
" Yd Mmut1r o/ WanntOea."'
J., ,...,."'\!
~'· · Daniel Sadler has this testimony lirrtJa1!'..
fortified, .by a letter from one Mr. Robert ~~
Mlllng him, that he bacl met with aa 014·ci1pJ
"Cooglc
INVISIBLE WORLD. HI
of the depoeition1 aforesaid, which accordl119ly
he transcribes for him; and ae.eral yet li•lnr
iu Dorcheater atlirmed unto· him the truth of the
1tory. .
The copies or the.e letters are now in ·Bo1toa,
in New Ent?land.
Mr. Sohn Sadler add1 his teatimony, that hill
father told unto bi1 mother and himself, that lae
bad been told of remarkable thing• to come to
pa51, particularly the burning or Londo11 ..an4
Pau1'1; but that they were not acquainted widt.
all the matters he foretold unto Mr. Boand and
Gray. Only he remembers well they two wen
with him in bis chamber aloue; and his fllher
went abroad within a day or two ; and that <-
cording to the sign he bad given them) the three
persons aforesaid visited him. He add1, that hla
father spoke of leaving in writing the tbinp that
had been shown to him; and that a little arter he
1aw, once, a thin oct1Yo manuscript in hi1 fathtr'a
1tudy, which he believed had thoae things in it.
but after that he could never find it.-Thi1 tnti•
mony i1 dated in October, 1697.
A worthy and a godly gentleman, at this time
liYing in Rotterdam. and well acquaintedwith both
Mr. Daniel and Mr. John Sadler, sends thi1 to Mr.
Increase Mather, in New England, with a letter
dated 26 March, 1698.
lbADKa, I am not ignorant that many cheat• and
1ham1 ba'l'8 been impo1ed upon the world, under
tile notion of communications from tbe i•ftrih1-
wld; and I hope I am not becoming a Yi5ionary.
]Jut fancies and jut?glea have their foundation laid
in realiti"; there would never have been impoa-
t~rn oC apparitions, and or communicatiou fioa
~ .Google
1" WONDERS 01" Tm
'1ae loriaiWe •otW, ir t1iel'e nettT had \16e• tea1'y
aome aadl ilaiags to be couaterfeited and imitate41.
·Wi•• men; therefore, will couat it a folly, ia its es-
altation and e:uremity, to deride all instances ol
l&range t•ings arriving to ua from the ioviiible
world, becauae that some things ban been de;.
lieion. No, 'ti1 a wiadom that is pleasing to
Goll, Mid uaeful to the world, for a clue ootice ro
be taken of rare things, wherein we have inconfeet-
.We proofs oC an i1nisible world, and ol the in-
terest it hath in human affairs. The ·oarracive or
Mr. Sadler is advantaged with aucb inoonteab.ble
proefa, and contains in it aueh aotable J>&$Hll"•
~ I believe l do well to lay it befON 1e.ie9
~ : ud I belieTe no aerious man will play tbe
llllt'-upeait.
THI 11'1>,
IOllPK IJllTlf, P&lMr&a, 193, HIGH BOLBO&l'f,
"Cooglc
