{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__brewster___letters_on_natural_magic.pdf","mytitle":"Letters On Natural Magic","mylang":"de"}
LETTERS
ON
NATURAL MAGIC,
'A.DDBESSXO TO
SIR wALTER SCOTT, BART•
. llY
SIR DAVID BREWSTER. K.H.
LL.D., P,B.S., P'.P,R.S.E., 4~. ,fe•
. LONDON:
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE-STREET.
MDCCCXXXIV, . ,
o''""' ,,Coogle
LONDON:
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES,
Duke--Street, Lambeth.
CONTENTS.
LJ.~TTER I.
Extenland_intereat of. the subject-Science employed
by aw:ient governments to deceive and enalave their
subjects-Influanceofthe supernatural upon ignorant
ll!inds..:....Means employed by the ancient magicianstC)
establish their authority-Derived from a knowledg&
of the phenomena of Nature-From the influence of
narcotic drugs upon the victims of their delusion-
From every branch of science-Acou,tice-Hydro·
statica-Mechanics-Optics-M. Salverte's work on
the Occult Science..:..Object of the following Letters 1
LETTER II.
The eye the most important of our organa-Popular
dncription of it-The eye is the most fertile source
of mental illusions-Disappearance of pbjecls when
their images fall upon the base of the optic nerve-
Disappearance of objects when seen O:bliquely-De.
ceptions arising from viewing objects in a faint light
-Luminous figures created by pressure on the eye,
either from external causes or from'the fulness of
the blood-vessels -Ocular spectra or acci<lental
colours-Remarkable effects produced by intense
light-Influence of the imagination in viewingthese
spectra-Remarkable illusion produced by this affec-
tion of the eye-Duration of impresaions of li~ht on
the eye-Thaumatrope-lmprovements upon 1t sug-
gested-Disappearance of halves of objects,or of one
of two persons-Insensibility of the eye to v.articular
colours-Remarkable optical illusion descnbed • 8
0-l
o''""' ,,Coogle
jy CONTENT~.
LETI'ER III.
· Subject of apec:tral illusions-Recent :and interesting
case of Mrs. A.-Her first illusion affecting the ear
-Spectral apparition of her husband-Spectral ap·
parition of a cat-Apparition of a near and living
relation in grave-clothes, seen in a looking-glallB-
Other illusions affecting the ear-Spectre of a de.
ceased friend sitting in an easy chair-Spectre of a
coach and four filled with skeletons-Accuracy and
value of the preceding cases-State of health under
· which they arose-spectral apparitions are pictures
on the retina-The ideas ofmemory and imagination
are also pi~tures on the retina-General views of the
subject-Approximate explanation of spectral appa-
ritious • • • • • •. • • 37
LETTER IV.
Science used as aninstrumentofimposture-Deceptions
with plane and concave mirrors practised by the an-
.cients-the magician's mirror-Effects of concave
rnirrors-AI!rialimages-Images oii'smoke-Combi-
nation of mirrors for producing pictures from living
objects-The mysterious dagger-Ancient miracles
with concave mirrors-Modern necromaucy with
them, as seen by Cellini-Deseription and effects of
the magic lantern-:Improvements upon it-Phan-
tasm~ric exhibitions of Philipstal and others-Dr.
Young s arrangement of lenses, &c., for tbe Phantas-
magoria-Improvements suggested-Catadioptrical
phantasmagoria for producing the pictures from living
objects-Method of cutting oil'parts of the figures-
Kircher's my&terious handwritiug on the wall-His
hollow cylindrical mirror for aerial imagea-Cylindri·
cal mirror for re-forming distorted pictures-Mirrors
of variable curvature for producing caricatures 5G
LETTER V.
Miscellaneous optical illusions-Conversions ofcameos
into intaglios, or elevations into depressions, and the
o''""' ,,Coogle
CONTENTS. v
reverse-Explanationofthisclass ofdeceptions-Sin-
gular effects of illumination with light ofone simple
c:olour-Lamps for producing homogeneous yellow
light-Methods of increasing the effects of this exhi-
bttion-Melhod ofreading th~ inscriptions ofcoins in
the dark-Art ofdeci11hering the effaced inscriptiflns
of coins--Explanation ofth~se singular eff~cts-Ap-.
parent motion of the eyes in portraits-Remarkable
examples ofthis-Apparent motion of the features of
a portrait, when the eyes are made to move-R~mark-
able experiment of breathing light and darkness • 98
LETTER VI.
Natural phenomena marked with the marvellous-
Spectre ofthe Brocken described-Analogous pheno-
mena-Aerial spectres seen in Cumberlaud-.t'ata-
Morgana in theStraits ofMessiua-Objects below the
horizon raised and magnified by refraction-Singular
exampleseenat Hastings-DoverCastleseen through
thehill on which itilands-J<:r~ctand invertedimages
of distant ships seen in the air-Similar pheno-
mena seen in the Arctic re~ions-Enchanted coast-
Mr. Scoresby recognizes h1s father's ship by its aerial
image-Images of cows seen in the air-Inverted
images of hors~s seen in South America-Lateral
images produced by refraction-Aerial spectres by
rell~xion-Explanation of the preceding phenomena 127
. LETTER VII.
Illusions depending on the ear-Practised by the an-
c:ienta-Speaking and singing heads of the ancients
-Exhibition of the invisible girl described and tiX·
plaine(l-llluaions arising from the difficulty of de-
termining: the direction ot sounds-Singularexample
of this illusion-Nature of ventriloquism-Exhi~
bilious of some of the most cd~hrnted ventriloquists
-M. St. Gillc-Louis Brabant-M. Al~xandre­
Captain Lyon's account of Eskitnaux ventriloquists 157
'''"'"'',Coogle
vi CONTENTS.
LE'ITER VIII.
Musical and hiU'mnnic sounds explained-Power of
breaking glasdeswith the voice-Musical sounds from
the vibration of a column of air-and of solid bodies
-Kaleidophone-Singular acoustic figures produced
on sand laid on vibrating plates of glass-and on
stretched membranes-Vibration of flat rulers and
cylinders of glass-Production of silence from two
sounds-Production of darkness from two lights-
Explanation of these singular effucts-Acouaticauto•
maton-Droz's bleating sheep-Maillardet's singing
bird-Vaucanson's flute-player-His pipe and tabor
player-BaronKempelen's talking engine-Kratzen-
steln's speaking machine-Mr. Willis's researches 179
I,E'ITER IX.
Singular effects in nature depending on sound-Penna·
nent character of speech-Iufluence of great eleva-
tious on the characterofsounds,andonthe powers of
speech-Powerof sound in throwing down buildings
-Dog killed by sound-Sounds greatly changed
under particular circumstances-Great audibility of
sounds during the night explained-Sounds deadened
in media of dilferent d~nsities-lllustrated in the case
of a glass of champagne-and in that of new-fallen
snow-Remarkable echoes-Reverberations of thun·
·der-Sub~rranean DOilieS-Remarkable one at the
Solfaterra-Echo at the Menai Suspension Bridge-
Temporary deafness produced in diving-bella-lnau·
dibility of particular ilounds to particular ears-Vocal
powers of the statue of Memnon-Sounda in granite
rocks-Musical mountain ofEl-Nakoua • • 212
I,ETTER X.
Mechanical inventions of the ancients few innumher-
Ancient andmodem feata ofstrength-F~ats ofEcke-
berg particularly described-General explanation of
them-Real feats of atrength performed by Thomas
'''"'"'',Coogle
CONTENTS. vii
Topham-Remarkable·power ofliftingheavy11ersons
whenthe lungs are inflated-Belzoni's feat ofsustain•
ing pyramide of men-Deception of walking along
the ceiling in an inverted position-Pneumatic ap·
paratus in the foot of the hou~~e-fly for enabling it to
walk in opposition to gravity-Description of the
analogous apparatua employed by the gecko lizard
for the same purpose-Apparatus used by the Eehi·
neia remora, or sueking-~sh • • • 244
LETTER XI.
Mechanical automata of the ancients-Moving tripod1
-Automata of Dsedalus-Wooden pigeon of Archy·
tu-Automatic clock of Charlemagne--Automata
made by Tmrianus for Charles V.-Camus'a auto-
matic carriage made for Louis XIV.-Degennes's
mechanical peacock-Vaucanson'H duck which ate
and digested its food-DuMoulin'sautomata-Baron
Kempelen·s automaton chess-player-Drawing and
writing automata-Ma.illardet's conjuror-Benefits
derived from the passion for automata-Examples of
wonderful machinery for useful purposes-Duncan's
tambouring machinery-Watt's statue-turning ma-
cbinery_-Babbage's calculating machinery • 264
LETIER XII.
Wonders of chemistry-origin, progress, and objects of
alchemy-Art of breathing fire-Employed hy Bar·
chochebas, Eunus, &c.-!Uodem method-Art of
walking upon burning coals and red-hot iron, and of
plunging the bands in"melting lead and boiling water
-Singularproperty ofboilingtar-Workmenplunge
their hands in melted copper-Trial of ordeal by fire
~Aidini's incombustible dresses-Examples of their
wonderful power in resisting flame-Power ofbreath-
ing and enduring air of high temperatures-Experi-
ments made by Sir Joseph Banks, Sir Charles
Blagden, and Mr. Chantrey . 297
'''"'"'',Coogle
viii CONTENTS.
LETTER XIII.
Spontaneous combustion-In the absorption of air by
powdered charcoal-and ofhy<lrogen by spongy pla-
tinum-Dobereiner's lamp-Spontaneous· combus·
tion in the bowels o£ the earth-Burning cliffs-
Burning soil-Combustion without flame-Sponla·
neous combustion of human being-Countess Zan•
gari-GracePett-Natural fire-templesofthe Guebres
-Spontaneous tires in the Caspian Sea-Springs of
inflammable gas near Glasgow-Natural lighthouse
of Maracaybo-New elastic fluids in the cavities of
gem1-Chemical operations going on in their cavi·
ties-Explosions produced in them by heat-Re-
markable changes of colour from chemical causes-
Effects of the nitrous oxide or Paradise gas when
breathed-Remarkable cases described-CoJl.CIIIIion 313
..
'''"'"'',Coogle
LETTERS
NA.TURAL MAGIC,
ADDlli&SED TO
SIR WALTER SCOTT, BART.
LETTER I.
Ezln.l and inlereat ofthe 1ubject ~science employed by all·
cient gotoernmenl• to dec~ive and m•lat:e their •ubjecll-
lnjluence of the •up~rnalural upon ignorant milldi-
Meam employed by the ancient tnagiciana to e1tabli•h their
authorit!J-Drriverlfrom a lt.~towlet!ge ofthe phe11omena of
Nature-From the influence of narcotic drug1 upon the
t'iciim. of their dcluaion-From every brunch ofacience-
.AcoulliCI-Hydro•tatic•-Mechanic•-Opticl-M. Sal-
tJerle'1 worlt. on the occult1cience1-0bjectnf thefollowit~g
Leiter•.
My DEAR SIR wALTER,
As it was at your suggestion that I undertook to
draw up a popular account of those prodigies of
the material world which have received. the appel-
lation of Natural M09ic, I have availed myself of
the priVilege of introducing it under the shelter of
your name. Although I cannot hope to produce a
volume at all approaching in interest to that which
A
o''""' ,,Coogle
4 LETTERS ON NATURAL M<).GIC.
phos ;-tl1e stone from the river. Pactolus, whose
trumpet notes scared the robber from the treasure
which it guarded ;-the speaking head which
uttered its oracular responses at Lesbos ;-and the
vocal statue of Memnon, which began at the
break of day to accost the rising eun,-were aU
deceptions derived from science, and from a dili-
gent observation of the phenomena of nature.
The principles of Hydrostatics were equally
available in the work of deception. The marvel-
lous fountain which Pliny describes in the Island
of Andros as discharging wine for seven days, and
water during the rest of the year ;-the spring of
oil which broke out in Rome to welcome the return
of Augustus from the Sicilian war,-the three
empty urns which filled themselves with wine at
the annual feast of Bacchus in the city of Elis,-
the glass tomb of Belus which was full of oil,
and which when once emptied by Xerxes, could
not again be filled,-the weeping statues, and the
perpetual lamps of the ancients, were aU the
obvious effects of the equilibrium and pressure of
fluids.
Although we have no direct evidence that the
philosophers of antiquity were skilled in Me-
·chanics, vet there are indications of their know-
ledge, by no means equivocal in the erection of
the Egyptian obelisks, and in the transportation
of huge masses of stone, and their subsequent
elevation to great heights in their temples. The
powers which they employed, and the mechanism
by which they operated, have been studiously con-
cealed, but their existence may be inferred from
results otherwise inexplicable, and the inference
o''""' ,,Coogle
RESOURCES OF THE ANCIENT MAGIC. 5
derives additiona.i confirmation from the mechani-
cal arrangements which seemed to have formed a
part of their religious impostures. When in some
of the ·infamous mysteries of ancient Rome, the
unfortunate victims were carried off by the gods,
there is reason to believe that they were hurried
away by the power of machinery; and when Apol-
lonius, conducted by the Indian sages to the temple
of their god, felt the earth rising and falling be-
neath his feet, like the agitated sea, he was no
doubt placed upon a moving floor capable of imi-
tating the heavings of the waves. The rapid de-
scent of those who consulted the oracle in the cave
of Trophonius,-the moving tripods which Apollo-
nius saw in the Indian temples,-the walking sta-
tues at Antium, and in the Temple of Hierapolis,
-and the wooden pigeon of Archytas, are speci-
mens of the mechanical resources of the ancient
magic.
But of all the sciences Optics is the most fertile
in marvellous expedients. The power of bringing
the remotest objects within the very grasp of the
observer, and of swelling into gigantic magnitude
the almost invisible bodies of the material world,
never fails to inspire with astonishment even those
who understand the means by which these prodigies
are accomplished. The ancients, indeed, were not
acquainted with those combinations of lenses and
mirrors which constitute the telescope and the
microscope, but they must have been familiar with
the property of lenses and mirrors to form erect
and inverted images of objects. There is reason
to think that they employed them to effect the
apparition of then gods; and in some of the
o''""' ,,Coogle
6 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
descriptions of the optical displ~ys which hallowed
their ancient temples, we recognize all the trans-
formations of the modern phantasmagoria.
It would be an interesting pursuit to embody
the information which history supplies respecting
the fables and incantations of the ancient supersti-
tions, and to show how far they can be explained
·by the scientific knowledge which then prevailed.
This task has, to a certain extent, been performed
by M. Eusebe Salverte, in a work on the occult
sciences, which has recently appeared; but not-
withstanding the ingenuity and learning which it
displays, the individual facts are too scanty to sup-
port the speculations of the author, and the de-
.scriptions are too meagre to satisfy the curiosity of
the reader*.
In the following letters I propose to take a wider
range, and to enter into more minute and popular
details. The principal phenomena of nature, and
the leading combinations of art, which bear the
impress of a supernatural character, will pass
under our review, and our attention will be parti-
cularly called to those singular illusions of sense,
by which the most perfect organs either cease to
perform their functions, or perform them faith-
lessly; and where the efforts and the creations of
the mind predominate over the direct perceptions
of external nature.
* We must caution the young reader against someo£the
views given in M. Salverte's work. In hls anxiety to ac·
.count for every thing miraculous by natural causes, he has
ascribed to the same ·origin some of those events iu sacred
history which Christiana cannot but regard as the result of
.divine agency.
o''""' ,,Coogle
GBNBRAL OBJECT OF THE 'VORK. 1
In executing this plan, the task of selection is
rendered extremely difficult, by the superabundance
of materials, as well as from the variety of judg-
ments for which these materials must be prepared.
Modern science may be regarded as one vast
miracle, . whether we view it in relation to the
Almighty Being, by whom its objects and its laws
were formed, or to the feeble· intellect of man, by
which its depths have been sounded, and its mys-
teries explored; and if the philosopher who is
familiarized with its wonders, and who has studied
them as necessary results of general laws, never
ceases to admire and adore their Author, how great
should be their effect upon less gifted minds, who
must ever view them in the light of inexplicable
prodigies.-Man has in all ages sought for a sign
from heaven, and yet he has been habitually blind
to the millions of wonders with which he is sur-
rounded. If the following pages should contribute
to abate this deplorable indifference to all that is
grand and sublime in the universe, and if they
should inspire the reader with a portion of that
enthusiasm of love arid gratitude which can alone
prepare the mind for its final triumph, the labours
of the author will not have been wholly fruitless.
o''""' ,,Coogle
..
8 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
LETTER II.
The ~elite n1ot1 imporlalll of otn' orgaru-Popular.Jetcrip·
lion of it-The ~ye i• Ike moll ferlilf' 1ource of nunlal
iiiU1ion1-Ditappcarance ofobject• tohen their image• fall
upon Ike bate of lAc optic n~tve-Di•appearance of object•
whm 1ccn obliquely-Deceplion• ari1ing from t"iewing ob-
ject• in a fainllighl- Lwminous.figu•·e•created by preuure
on lhe eye either from e:rterna/ cnUiel Ol' from the fulncll
ofthe_bluod·vtuels-Ocula•· 1peclra Ol' accitlc111nl ~olour1
-Remarl<ablc t;ffecll p1·oduced by intenrc light-lnjlu-
ence of the imagination in tJin,ing tke1c ·~ctra-Re­
murl<able iHu1ion produced by tkil a.ffectiun of the ~e..:..
Duration of imprc11ion1 of light on 1M eye-Tltaumalrope
-lmprot"cmenl• upon it 1uggellcd-Di•appearance of
knlvc1 ofobjectI or nfone of t1110 per10ru-lnsemibility of
the eye to particular co/our•-Rmlarkable optical illusiott
de1cribed.
OF all the organs by which we acquire a know-
ledge of external nature, the eye is the most re-
markable and the most important. By our other
senses th~ information we obtain is comparatively
Jimited. The touch and the taste extend no far-
ther than the surface of our own bodies. The sense
of smell is exercised within a very narrow sphere,
and that of recognizing sounds is limited to the
distance at which we hear tlte bursting of a meteor
and the crash of a thunderbolt. But the eye enjoys
a boundless range of observation. It takes cog-
nizance' not only of other worlds belonging to
o''""' ,,Coogle
POWE& A~D ST&UCTORB OF TRB BYB. 9
the solar system, but of other systems of worlds
infinitely removed into the immensity of apace;
and when aided by the telescope, the invention of
human wisdom, it is able to discover the forma,
the phenomena, and the movements of bodies
whose distance is as inexpressible in language as
it is inconceivable in thought.
While the human eye bas been admired by ordi-
nary observers for the beauty of ita form, the power
of its movements, and the variety of its expression,
it has excited the wonder ofphilosophers by the ex-
quisite mechanism of its interior, and its singular
adaptation to the VILriety of purposes which it has
to serve. The eye-ball is nearly globular, and is
about an inch in diameter. It is formed externally
by a tough opaque membrane called the sclerotic
coat, which forms the white of the eye, with the ex-
ception of a small circular portion in front called
the cornea. This portion is perfectly transparent,
and so tough in its nature as to afford a powerful
resistence to external injury. Immediately within
the cornea, and in contact with it, is the aqueous
humour, a clear fluid, which occupies only a small
part of the front of the eye. Within this humour
is the iris, a circular membrane with a hole in ita
centre called the pupil. The colour of the eye re-
sides in this membrane, which has the curious pro-
perty of contracting and expanding so as to dimi-
nish or enlarge the pupil,-an effect which human
ingenuity has not been able even to imitate. Be-
hind the iris is suspendoo the crystalline lens, in a
fine transpllrent capsule or bag of the same form
with itself. It is then succeeded by the vitreous
humour, which resembles the transparent white of
o''""' ,,Coogle
10 LKTTliRS ON. NATURAL 'MAGIC.
an egg, and fills up the rest of the eye. Behind the
vitreous humour, there is spread out on the inside
of the eye-ball a fine delicate membrane, called
the retina, which is an expansion of the optic
nerve, entering the back of the eye, and commu-
nicating with the brain.
A perspective view and horizontal section of
the left eye, shown in the annexed figure, will
convey a popular idea of its structure. It is, as it
were, a small camera obscura, by means of which
the pictures of external objects are painted on
the retina, and in a way of which we are ignn-
rant, it conveys the impression of them to the
brain.
Fig. I.
This wonderful organ may be considered as the
sentinel which guards the pass between the worlds
ofmatter and of spirit, and through which all their
communications are interchanged. The optic nerve
is the channel by which the mind peruses the
hand-writing of Nature on the retina, and through
•
OCULAR ILLUSIONS. 11
which it transfers to that material tablet its deci-
sions and its creations. The eye is consequently
the principal seat of the supernatural. When the
indications of the marvellous are addressed to us
through the ear, the mind may be startled without
being deceived, and reason may succeed in sug-
gesting some J>robable source of the illusion by
which we have been alarmed : but when the eye
in solitude sees before it the forms of life, fresh in
their colours and vivid in their outline; when dis-
tant or departed friends are suddenly presented to
its view; when visible bodies disappear and reap-
pear without any intelligible cause; and when it
beholds objects, whether real or imaginary, for
whose presence no cause can be assigned, the con-
viction of supernatural agency becomes under
ordinary circumstances unavoidable.
Hence it is not only an amusing but an useful
occupation to acquire a knowledge of those causes
which are .capable of producing so strange a belief,
whether it arises from the delusions which the
mind ~ractises upon itself, or from the dexterity
and sc1ence of others. I shall therefore proceed
to explain those illusions which have their origin
in the eye, whether they are general, or only occa-
sionally exhibited in particular persons, and undea-
particular circumstances.
There are· few persons aware that when they
look with one eye there is some particular object
before ·them to which they are absolutely blind.
If we look with the right eye, this point is alway•
about 15° to the right of the object which we are
viewing, or to the right of the axis of the eye or
the po'int of most distinct vision. If we look wi~
o''""' ,,Coogle
12 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
the left eye, the point is as far to the left. In order
to be convinced of this curious fact, which was
discovered by M. Mariotte, place two coloured
wafers upon a sheet of white paper at the distance
of three inches, an~ look at the left hand wafer
with the right eye at the distance of about 11 or
12 inches, taking care to keep the eye straight
above the wafer, and the line which joins the eyes
parallel to the line which joins the wafers. When
this is done, and the·left eye closed, the right hand
wafer will no longer be visible. The same effect
will be produced if we close the right eye and look
with the left eye at the right hand wafer. When
we examine the retina to discover to what part of
it this insensibility to light belongs, we find that
the image of the invisible wafer has fallen on the
base of the optic nerve, or the place where this
nerve enters the eye and expands itself to form the
retina. This point is shown in the preceding
figure by a convexity at the place where the nerve
enters the eye.
But though light of ordinary intensity makes no
impression upon this part of the eye, a very strong
light does, and even when we use candles or highly
luminous bodies in place of wafers the body does
not wholly disappear, but leaves behind a fllint
cloudy light, without, however, giving anything
like an image of the object from which the light
proceeds.
When the objects are white wafers upon a black
ground, the white wafer absolutely disappears, and
the space which it covers appears to be completely
black; and as the light which illuminates a land-
acape is not much different from that of a white
o''""' ,,Coogle
DARK SPOT ON THE RETINA, ETC. 13
wafer, we should expect, whether we use one or
both eyes'*, to see a black or a dark spot upon
every landscape, within 15° of the point which
most particularly attracts our notice. The Divine
Artificer, however, has not left his work thus im-
perfect. Though the base of the optic nerve is
insensible to light that falls directly upon it, yet it
has been made suspectible of receiving luminous
impressions from the parts which surround it; and
the consequence of this is, that when the wafer
disappears, the spot which it occupied, in place of
being black, has always the same colour as the
ground upon which the wafer is laid, being white
when the wafer is placed upon a white ground,
and red when it is placed upon a red ground. This
curious effect may be rudely illustrated by <:_om-
paring the retina to a sheet of blotting-paper, and
the base of the optic nerve to a circular portion of
it covered with a piece of sponge. If a shower
falls upon the paper, the protected part will not
be wetted by the rain which falls upon the sponge
that covers it, but in a few seconds it will be as
effectually wetted by.the moisture which it absorbs
from the wet paper with which it is surrounded.
In like manner the insensible spot on the retina
is stimulated by a borrowed light, and the apparent
defect is so completely removed, that its existence
can be determined only by the experiment already
described.
Of the same character, but far more general in
• When both eyes are open, the object whose image falls
upon the insensible spot of the one eye is seen by the other,
so that though it is not invisiblt-, yet it ,.m only be half as
luminous, and therefore two dark spots ought to be seen.
o''""' ,,Coogle
14 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
its effects, and important in its consequences, is
another illusion of the eye which presented itself
to me several years ago. When the eye is stea-
dily occupied in viewing any particular object, or
when it takes a fixed direction while the mind is
occupied with any engrossing topic of speculation
or of grief, it suddenly loses sight of, or becomes
blind to, objects seen indirectly, or upon which it
is not fully directed. This takes place whether we
use one or both eyes, and the object which disap-
pears will reappear without any change in the po-
sition .of the eye, while other objects will vanish
and revive in succession without any apparent
cause. lf a sportsman, for example, is watching
with intense interest the motions of one of his
dogs, his companion, though set'n with perfect
clearness by indirect vision, will vanish, and the
light of the heath or of the sky will close in upon
the spot )Vhich he occupied.
In order to witness this illusion, put a little bit
pf white paper on a green cloth, and within three
or four inches of it, place a narrow strip of white
paper. At the distance of twelve or eighteen
inches, fix one eye steadily upon the little bit of
white paper, and in a short time a part or even
the whole of the strip of paper will vanish as if it
bad been removed from the green cloth. It will
again reappear, and again vanish, the effect de-
pending greatly on the steadiness with which the
eye is kept fixed. This illusion takes place when
.both the eyes are open, though it is easier to ob-
serve it when one of them is dosed.' The same
thing happens when the object is luminous. When
a candle is thus seen by jndirect vision, it never
o''""' ,,Coogle
OBLIQUE VJSJON-FRJ!BLE LIGHT• 15
wholly disappears, but it spreads itself out into a
cloudy mass, the centre of which is blue, encircled
with a bright ring of yellow light.
This inability of the eye to preserve a sustained
vision of objects seen obliquely, is curiously com-
pensated by the greater sensibility of those parts
of the eye that have this defect. The eye has the
power of seeing objects with perfect distinctness
only when it is directed straight upon them; that
is, all objects seen indirectly are seen indistinctly :
but it is a curious circumstance, that when we
wish to obtain a sight of a very faint star, such as
one of the satellites of Saturn, we can see it most
distinctly by looking away from it, and when the
eye is turned full upon it, it immediately disap-
pears.
Effects still more remarkable are produced in
the eye when it views objects that are difficd1t to
be seen from the small degree of light with which
they happen to be illuminated. The imperfect
view which we obtain of such objects forces us to
fix the eye more steadily upon them; but the more
exertion we make to ascertain what they are, the
greater difficulties do we encounter to accomplish
our object. The eye is actually thrown into a
state of the most painful agitation, the object will
swell and contract, and partly disappear, and it
will again become visible when the eye has reco-
vered from the delirium into which it has been
thrown. This phenomenon may be most distinctly
seen when the objects in a room are illuminated
with the feeble gleam of a fire almost extinguished;
but it may·be observed in daylight by the sports-
man when be endeavours to mark upon the mono-
o''""' ,,Coogle
16 .LKTTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
tonous heath the particular spot where moor-game
has alighted. Availing himself of the slightest
difference of tint iu the adjacent heath, he keeps
his eye steadily fixed on it as he advances, but
whenever the contrast of illumination is feeble, he
will invariably lose sight of his mark, and if the
retina is capable of taking it up, it is only to lose
it a second time.
This illusion is likely to be most efficacious in
the dark, when there is just sufficient light to ren-
der white objects faintly visible, and to persons
who are either timid or credulous must prove a fre-
quent source of alarm. Its infiuence too is greatly
aided by another condition of the eye, into which
it is thrown during partial darkness. The pupil
expands nearly to th~ whole width of the iris in
order to collect the feeble light which prevails ;
but it is demonstrable that in this state the eye
cannot accommodate itself to see near objects dis-
tinctly, so that the form of persons and things ac-
tually become more shadowy and confused when
they come within the very distance at which we
count upon obtaining the best view of them.
These affections of the eye are, we are per1maded,
very frequent causes of a particular class of ap-
paritions which are seen at night by the young
and the i&norant. The spectres which are con-
jured up are always white, because no other colour
can be seen, and they are either formed out of in-
animate objects which refiect more light than
others around them, or of animals or human
beings whose colour or change of place renders
them more visible in the dark. When the eye
dimly descries an inanimate object whose different
o''""' ,,Coogle
PHOSPHORESCENCE OF THE RETINA. 17
parts reflect different degrees of light, its brighter
parts may enable the spectator to keep up a con-
tinued view of it ; but the disappearance and re-
appearance of its fainter parts, and the change of
shape which ensues, will necessarily give it the
semblance of a living form, and if it occupies a
position which is unapproachable, and \Vhere
animate objects cannot find their way, the mind
will soon transfer to it a supernatural existence.
In like manner a human figure shadowed forth in
a feeble twilight may undergo similar changes,
and after being distinctly seen while it is in a
situation favourable for receiving and reflecting
light, it may suddenly disappear in a position fully
before, and within the reach of, the observer's
eye ; and if this evanescence takes place in a path
or road where there was no side-way by which the
figure could escape, it is not easy for an ordinary
mind to efface the impression which it cannot fail
to receive. Under such circumstances we never
think of distrusting an organ which we have never
found to deceive us ; and the truth of the maxim
that 'seeing is believing' is too universally ad-
mitted, and too deeply rooted in our nature to
admit on any occasion of a single exception.
'In these observations we have supposed that
the spectator bears along with hil\1 no fears or
prejudices, and is a faithful interpreter of the
phenomena presented to his senses; but if he is
himself a believer in apparitions, and unwilling to
receive an ocular demonstration of their reality~
it is not difficult to conceive the picture which will
be drawn when external objects are distorted and
caricatured by the imperfect indications of hia
B
o''""' ,,Coogle
18 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
t~enses, and coloured with all the vivid hues of the
imagination.
Another class of ocular deceptions have their
origin in a property of the eye which has been
very imperfectly examined. The fine nervous
fabric which constitutes the retina, and which
extends to the brain, has the singular property of
being plwsphorescent by pressure. When we
press the eye-ball outwards by applying the point
of the finger between it and the nose, a circle of
light will. be seen, which Sir Isaac Newton de-
scribes as ' a -circle of colours like those in the
feather of a peacock's tail.' He adds, that ' if the
eye and the finger remain quiet, these colours
vanish in a second of time, but if the finger be
moved with a quavering motion they appear
again.' In the numerous observations which I
have made on these luminous circles, I have never
been able to observe any colour but white, with
the exception of a general red tinge whicb is
t~een when the eyelids are closed, and which is
produced by the light which passes through them.
The luminous circles too always continue while
the pressure is applied, and they may be produced
as readily after the eye has been long in darkness
as when it has been recently exposed to light.
When the pressure is very gently applied, so as
to compress the fine pulpy substance of the retina,
light is immediately created when the eye is in
total darkness; and when in this state light is
allowed to fall upon it, the part compressed is
more sensible to light than any other part, and
consequently appears more luminous. If we in-
creaae the pressure, the eyeball being filled.with
o''""' ,,Coogle
EFFECTS OF PJI.&SS11JtB ON TRB JLBTINA. 19
incompressible fluids, will protrude alf round the
point of pressure, and consequently the retina at
the protruded part will be compressed by the out-
WJlrd pressure-of the contained fluid, while the re-
tina on each side, namely, under the point of pres-
sure and beyond the protruded part, will be drawn
towards the protruded part or dilated. Hence
the part wtder the finger which was originally com-
pressed is now dilated, the adjacent parts com-
pressed, and the more remote parts immediately
without this dilated also. Now we have ob-
served, that when the eye is, under these circum-
stances, exposed to light, there is a bright lu-
minous circle shading off externa11y and internally
into total darkness. We are led therefore to the
important conclusions, that when the retina is
compressed in total darkness it gives out light;
that when it is compressed when exposed to light,
its sensibility to light is increased; and that when
it is dilated under exposure to light, it become1
absolutely blind, or insensible to alllumirwus im-
pressions.
When the body is in a state of perfect.health,
this phosphorescence of the eye shows .itself on
many occasions. When the eye or the head ~
ceives a sudden blow, a bright flash of light shoots
from the eyeball. In the act of sneezing, gleams
of light are emitted from each eye, both during
the inhalation of the air, and during its subse-
quent protrusion, and in blowing air violently
through the nostrils,_two patches of light appear
above the axis of the eye and in front of it, while
other two luminous spots unite into one, and
appear as it were about the point of the nose when
B2
o''""' ,,Coogle
20 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
the eyes are directed to it. When we turn the
eyeball by the action of its own muscles, tbe re-
tina is affected at the place where the muscles are
inserted, and there may be seen opposite each eye,
and towards the nose, two semicircles of light, and
other two extremely faint towards the temples. At
particular times, when the retina is more phos·
phorescent than at others, these semicircles are
expanded into complete circles of light.
In a state of indisposition, the phosphorescence
of the retina appears in new and more alarming
forms. When the stomach is under a temporary
derangement accompanied with headache, the
pressure of the blood-vessels upon the retina
shows itself, in total darkness, by a faint blue
light fioating before the eye, varying in its sh~pe,
and passin~ away at one side. This blue light
increases in intensity, becomes green and then
yellow, _
and sometimes rises to red, all these
colours being frequently seen at once, or the mass
of light shades off into darkness. When we con-
sider the variety of distinct forms which in a
state of perfect health the imagination ca~ con-
jure up when looking into a burning fire, or upon
an irregularly shaded surface*, it is easy to con-
• A very curious example of the influence of the imagi·
nation in creating distinct forma out of an irregularly
shaded Kurface, is mentioned in the life of Peter Heaman,
a Swede, who was executed for piracy and murd"r at Leith
in 1822. We ~ive it in his own words:-
- "One r~markable thing was, one day as we mended a
£ail, it being a very thin one, after laying it upon deck in
.f••l4s, 1 took the tar brush and tarred it over in the rlaces
which I thought needed to be str.,ngthened. But when we
hoist~d it up, I was astonished to see that the tar I had put
o''"" ,,Coogle
OCULAR SPBCTJlA, 21
ceive how the masses of coloured light which float
before the eye may be moulded by the same power
into those fantastic and natural shapes, which so
often haunt the couch of the invalid, even when
the mind retains its energy, and is conscious of
the illusion under which it labours. In other
• cases, temporary blindness is produced by pressure
upon the optic nerve, or upon the retina ; and
under the excitation of fever or delirium, when the
physical cause which produces spectral forms is at
its height, there is · superadded a powerful in-
fluence of the mind, which imparts a new cha-
racter to the phantasms of the senses.
In order to complete the history of the illusions
which originate in the eye, it will be necessary to
give some account of the phenomena called ocular
spectra, or accidental colours. If we cut a figure
out of red paper, and placing it on a sheet of wbite
paper, view it steadily for some seconds with one or
both eyes fixed on a particular part of it; we shall
observe the red colour to b'kome less brilliant. If
we then tum the eye from the red figure upon the
white paper, we shall see a distinct green figure,
which is the spect11um, or accidental colour of tl!.e
red figure. With differently coloured figures we
shall observe differently coloured spectra, as in
the following table:-
upon it represented a gallows anti a man under it without a
head. The ht'ad was lying beside him. He was complett',
body, thi~:hs, i<'gs, arme, and in every ehape like a man.
Now, I oftentimes made remarks upon it, and repeated them
to the others. I always said to them all, you may depend
upon it that something will happen. I afterwards took
down the oail on a calm day, and sewed a piece of canvass
over the figure to cover it, for I could not b•ar to have it
: always befo:e my eyes."
o''""' ,,Coogle
··.,
22 LETTEI\8 ON NATURAL MAGIC.
Colour of the
Original figures.
Red,
Ora"nge,
Yellow,
Green,
Blue,
Indigo,
Violet,
White,
Black,
Culour of the
Spectral figures.
Bluish-green.
Blue.
Indigo.
Reddish-violet.
Orange-red.
Orange-yellow.
Yellow.
Black.
White.
The two last of these experiments, viz., white and
black figures, may be satisfactorily made by using
a white medallion on a dark ground, and a black
profile figure. The spectrum of the former will
be found to be black, and that of the latter white.
These ocular spectra often show themselves
without any effort on our part, and eveu without
our knowledge. In a highly painted room illu-
minated by the sun, those parts of the furniture
on which the sun does not directly fall havealways
the opposite or accidental colour. If the sun shines
through a chink in a red window-curtain, its light
will appear green, varying, as·in the 11bove table,
with the colour of the curtain; and·if we look at
the image of.a candlereflected from the water in a
blue finger glass, it will appear yellO'I.v. When-
ever, in short, the eye is affected with one prevail-
ing colour, it sees at the same time the spectral or
accidental colour, just as when a musical string is
vibrating, the ear hears at the same time its fun-
damental and its harmonic sounds.
If the prevailing light is white and very strong,
the spectra which it produces are no longer black,
but of various colours in succession. If we look
o''""' ,,Coogle
OCUL.Ut SPECTRA. 23
at the sun, for example, when near the horizon, or·
when refieeted frQm glass or water so as to mode-
mte its brilliamcy, and keep the eye upon it stea-
dily for a few seconds, we shall see even for houra
afterwards, and whether the eyes are open or shut,
a spectra of the sun varying in its colours. At
first, with the eye open, tt is brownish-red with a
sky-blue border, and when the eye is shut, it is
green with a red border. The red becomes more
brilliant, and the blue more vivid, till the impres-
sion is gradually worn off; but even when they
become very faint, they may be revived by a gentle
pressure on the eyeball.
Some eyes are more susceptible than others of.
these spectral impreesioll8, and Mr. Boyle men-
tions an individual who continued for years to
see the spectre of .the sun when he looked upon
bright objects. This fact appeared to Locke so·
interesting and inexplicable, that he consulted Sir·
Isaac Newton respecting its cause, and drew from
him the following interesting account of a similar
effect upon himself:-' The observation you men-
tion in Mr. Boyle's book of colours, I once made
upon myself with the hazard of my eyes. The .
manner was this: I looked a very little while
upon the sun in the looking-glass with my right
eye, and then turned my eyes into a dark .comer
of my chamber, and winked, to observe the im-
pression made, and the circles of colours which
encompassed it, and how they decayed by degrees,
and at last vanished. This I repeated 1!- second
and a third time. At the third time, when the
phantasm of light and colours about it were
almost vanished, intending my fancy upon them
to see their last appearance, I found, to my
o''""' ,,Coogle
2..& LBT'I'ERS ON NATUJlAL MAGIC.
amazement, that they began to return, and by
little and little to become as lively and vivid as
when I bad newly looketl upon the suu. But
when I ceased to intend my face upon them
they vanished again. After this, I found that,
as often as l went into the dark, and intended
my mind upon them, as when a man looks
earnestly to see anything which is difficult to be
seen, I could make the phantasm return without
looking any more upon the sun ; and the oftener
I made it return, the more easily I could make it
return again. And at length, by repeating this
without looking any more upon the sun, I made
such an impression on my eye, that, if I looked
upon the clouds, or a book, or any bright object,
I saw upon it a round bright sp(lt of light like the
sun, and, which is still stranger, though I looked
upon the sun with my right eye only, and not
with my left, yet my fancy began to make an im-
pression upon my left eye as well as upon my
right. For if I shut my right eye, and looked
upon a book or the clouds with my left eye, I
could see the spectrum of the sun almost as plain
as with my right eye, if I did but intend my
fancy a little while upon it : for at first, if I shut
my right eye, and looked with my left, the spec-
trum of the sun did not appear till I intended my
fancy upon it; but by repeating, this appeared
every time more easily. And now in a few hours
time. I had brought my eyes to such a pass, that
I could look upon no bright object with either
eye but I saw the sun before me, so that I durst
neither write nor read ; but to recover the use of
my eyes, shut myself up in my chamber made
dark, for three days together, and used all means
o''""' ,,Coogle
ILLUSIONS FROM OC\JLAB. SPECTB.A. 25
in my power to direct my imagination from the
sun. For if I thought upon him, I presently saw
his picture, though I was in the dark. But by
keeping in the dark, and employing my mind
about other things, I began in three or four days
to have more use of my eyes again; and by for•
bearing to look upon bright objects, recovered
.them pretty well; though not so well but that,
for some months after, the' spectrums of the sun
began to return as often as I began to meditate
upon the phenomena, even though I lay in bed
at midnight with my curtains drawn. But now
I have been well for many years, though I am
apt to think, if I durst venture my eyes, I could
still make the phantasm return by the power of
my fancy. This story I tell you, to let you un-
derstand, that in the observation related by Mr.
Boyle, the man's fancy probably concurred with
the impression made by the sun's light to produce
that phantasm of the sun which he constantly saw
in bright objecta •.'
I am not aware of any effects that had the cha-
racter of supernatural having been actually pro-
duced by the causes above described : but it ia
obvious, that if a living figure had been projected
against the strong light which imprinted these d.ur-
able spectra of the sun, which might really happen
when the solar rays'are reflected from water, and
diffused by its ruffied surface, this figure would
have necessarily accompanied all the luminous
spectres which the fancy created. Even in ordi-
nary lights strange appearances may be produced
by even trall6ient impressions ; and if I aJil nQt
• See the Edinhurflh Encycloptzdia, .Art. AccmBNTAL
COLOVRS. '
o''""' ,,Coogle
26 · LBTTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
greatly mistaken, the case which I am about to
mention is not only one which may occur, but
which· actually happened. A figure dre8sed in
black and mounted upon a white horse, was riding
along, exposed to the bright rays of the sun,
which, through a small opening in the clouds, was
throwing its light only upon that part of the land-
scape. The black figure was projected against a
white cloud, and the white horse shone with par-
ticular brilliancy by its contrast with the dark soil
against which it was seen. A person interested
in the arrival of such a stranger had been for some
time following his movements with intense anxiety,
but upon his disappearance behind a wood was
surprised to observe the spectre of the mounted
stranger in the form of a white rider upon a black.
steed, and this spectre was seen for some time in
the sky, or upon any pale ground to which the eye
was directed. Such an occurrence, especially if
accompanied with a suitable combination of events,
might, even in modern times, have formed a chap-
ter in tlie history of the marvellous.
It is a curious circumstance, that when the
image of an object is impressed upon the retina
only for a few moments, the picture which is left
is exactly of the same colour with the object. If
we look, for example, at a window at some distance
from the eye, and then transfer the eye quickly to
the wall, we shall see it distinctly, but momenta-
rily, with light panes and da1·k bars; but in a
spaceof time incalculably short, this picture is suc-
ceeded by the spectral impression of the window,
which will consist of black panes and wl&ile bars.
The similar spectrum, or that of the same colour
as the object, is finely seen in the experiment of
o''""' ,,Coogle
DURATION OF LUMINOUS IMPaBUIONS, 27
fonning luminous circles by whirling round a burn-
ing stick, in which case the circles are always red.
In virtue of this property of the eye, an object
may be seen in many places at once ; and we may
even exhibit at the same instant the two opposite
sides of the same object, or two pictures painted
on the opposite sides of a piece of card. It was
found by a French philosopher, M. D'Arcet, that
the impression of light continued on the retina
about the eighth part of a second after the lumi-
nous lbly was withdrawn, and upon this principle
Dr. Paris has constructed the pretty little instru-
ment called the Thaumatrope, or the Wonder-
turner. It consists of a number of circular pieces
of card, about two or three inches broad, which
may be twirled round with great velocity by the ap-
plication of the fore-finger and thumb of each hand
to pieces of silk.string attached to opposite points
of their circumference. On each side of the circular
piece of card is painted part of a picture, or a part
of a figure, in such a manner that the two parts
would fonn a group or a whole figure, if we could
see both sides at once. Harlequin, for example, is
painted on one side, and Columbine on the other,
so that by twirling round the card the two are seen
at the same time in their usual mode of combina-
tion. The body of a Turk is drawn on one side,
and his head on the reverse, and by the rotation of
the card the head is replaced upon his shoulders.
The principleof this illusion may be extended to
many other contrivances. Part of a sentence may
be written on one side of a card and the rest on
the reverse. Particular letters may be given on
one side, and others upon the other, or even halves
or parts of each letter may be put upon each side,
o''""' ,,Coogle
28 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
or all these contrivances may be combined, so that
the sentiment which they express can be under-
stood only when all the scattered parts are united
by the revolution of the card.
As the revolving card is virtually transparent,
so that bodies beyond it can be seen through it,
the power of the illusion might be greatly extended
by introducing into the picture other figures, either
animate or inanimate. The setting sun, for ex-
ample, might be introduced into a landscape. part
of the flame of a fire might be seen to issue from
the crater of a volcano, and cattle grazing in a field
might make part of the revolutionary landscape.
For such purposes, however, the form of the in-
strument would require to be completely changed,
and the rotation should be effected round a stand-
ing axis by wheels and pinions, and a screen
placed in front of the revolving plane with open
compartments or apertures, through which the
principal figures would appear. Had the principle
of this instrument been known to the ancients, it
would doubtless have formed a powerful engine of
delusion in their temples, and might have been
more effective than the optical means which they
seem to have employed for producing the appari-
tions of their gods.
In certain diseased conditions of the eye effects
of a very remarkable kind are produced. The fa-
culty of seeing objects double is too common to
be noticed as remarkable; and though it may take
place with only one eye, yet, as it generally arises
from a transient inability to direct the axes of both
eyes to the same point, it excites little notice. That
state of the eye, however, in which we lose sight
of half of every object at which we look is more
o''""' ,,Coogle
INSENSIBILITY TO COLOURS. 29
alarming and more likely to be ascribed to the
disappearance of part of the object than to a defect
of sight. Dr. Wollaston, who experienced this de-
fect twice, informs us that, after taking violent
exercise, he " suddenly found that he could see but
half of a man whom he met, and that on attempt-
ing to read the name of JOHNSON over a door,
he saw only SON, the commencement of the
name being wholly obliterated from his view." In
this instance, the part of the object which disap-
peared was towards his left, but on a second occur-
rence of the same affection, the part which disap-
peared was towards his right. There are many
occasions on which this defect of the eye might
alarm the person who witnessed it for the first
time. At certain distances from the eye one of
two persons would necessarily disappear; and by
a slight change of position either in the observer or
the perilon observed, the person that vanished
would reappear, while the other would disappear
in his turn. The circumstances under which these
evanescenceS would take place could not be sup-
posed to occur to an ordinary observer, even if he
should be aware that the cause had its origin in
himself. When a phenomenon so strange is seen
by a person in perfect health, as it generally is,
and who has never had occasion to distrust the
testimony of his senses, he can scarcely refer it to
any other cause than a supernatural one.
Among the affections of the eye which not only
deceive the person who is subject to· them, but
those also who. witness their operation, may be
enumerated the insensibility of the eye to particu-
lar colours. This -defect is not accompanied with
any imperfection of vision, or connected with an,y
o''""' ,,Coogle
30 .I.ETTBB.S ON NATURAL MAGIC.
disease either of a local or a general nature, and it
has hitherto been observed in persons who possess
a skong and a sharp sight. Mr. Huddart has
described the case of one Harris, a shoemaker at
Maryport in Cumberland, who was subject to this
defect in a very remarkable degree. He seems to
have been insensible to every colour, and to have
been capable of recognising only the two opposite
tints of black and white. "His first suspicion of
this defect arose when he was about four years old.
Having by accident found in the street a child's
stocking, he carried it to a neighbouring house to
inquire for the owner. He observed the people
call it a red stocking, though he did not understand
why they gave it that denomination, as he himself
thought it completely described by being called a
stocking. The circumstance, however, remained
in his memory, and with other subsequent obser-
vations, led him to the knowledge of his defect.
He observed also, that when young, other children
could discern cherries on a tree by some pretended
difference of colour, though he could only distin-
-guish them from the leaves by their difference of
size and shape. He observed also that, by means
of this difference of colour, they could see the
cherries at a greater distance than he could, though
he could see other objects at as great a distance
as they, that is, where the sight was not assisted
by the colour." Harris had two brothers, whose
perception of colours was nearly as defective as
his own. ·One of these, whom Mr. Huddart ex-
amined, constantly mistook light green for yeUow,
and orange for grass green.
Mr. Scott has described, in the Philosophical
Transactions, his own defect in perceiving colours.
'''"'"'',Coogle
INSKNSIBILITY TO COLOUJll. 31
He states that he does not know anv green in the
world; that a pink colour and a pale blue are per-
fectly alike ; that he has often thought a fuJI red
and a full green a good match ; that he is some-
times baflled in distinguishing a full purple from
a deep blue, but that he knows light, dark, and
middle yellows, and all degrees of blue except tky-
blue. "I married my daughter to a genteel,
worthy man, a few years ago; the day before the
marriage he came to my house dressed in a new
suit of fine cloth clothes. I was much displeased
that he should come, as I suvposed, in black; and
said that he should go back to change his colour.
But my daughter said, No, no; the colour is very
genteel, that it was my eyes that deceived me.
He was a gentleman of the law, in a fine, rich,
claret-coloured dress, which is as much black to my
eyes as any black that ever was dyed." Mr. Scott•a
father, his maternal uncle, one of his sisters, and
her two sons, had all the same imperfection. Dr.
Nichol has recorded a case where a naval officer
purchased a blue uniform coat and waistcoat with
red breeches to match the blue, and Mr. Harvey
describes the case of a taih1r at Plymouth, who
on one occasion repaired an article of dress with
crimson in place of black silk, and on another
patched the elbow of a blue coat with a piece of
crimson cloth. It deserves to be remarked that our
celebrated countrymen, the late Mr. Dugald Stew-
art, Mr. Dalton, and Mr. Troughton, have a simi-
lar difficulty in distinguishing colours. Mr. Stew-
art discovered this def!)ct when one of his family
was admiring the beauty of a Siberian crab-apple,
which he could not distinguish from the leaves but
by its form and size. · Mr. Dalton cannot distin-
o''""' ,,Coogle
32 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
guish blue from pink, and the solar spectrum con-
sists only of two colours, yellow and blue. Mr.
Troughton regards red ruddy pinks, and brilliant
qranges, as yellows, and greens as blues, so that
he is capable only of appreciating blue and yellow
colours.
In all those ·cases which haYe been carefully
studied, at least in three of them in which I have
had the advantage of making personal observa-
tions, namely those of Mr. Troughton, Mr. Dalton,
and Mr. Liston, the eye is capable of seeing the
whole of the prismatic spectrum, the red space ap-
pearing to be yellow. If the red space consisted
of homogeneous or simple red rays, we should be
led to infer that the eyes in question were not in-
sensible to red light, but were merely incapable
of discriminating between the impressions of red
and yellow light. I have lately shown, however,
that the prismatic spectrum consists of three equal
and coincident spectra of red, yellmv, and blue
light, and consequently, that much yellow and a
small portion of blue light exist in the red space;
and hence it follows, that those eyes which see
only two colours, viz. yellmv and blue, in the spec-
trum, are really insensible to the red light of the
spectrum, and see only the yellow with the small
portion of blue with which the :red is mixed. The
faintness of the yellow light which is thus seen in
the red space, confirms the opinion that the retina
has not appreciated the influence of the simple
red rays. '
If one of the two travellers who, in the fable of
the chameleon, are made to quarrel about the colour
of that singular animal, bad happened to possess
this defect of sight, they would have encountered at
o''"'"·· ,,Coogle
REMARKABLE OPTICAL ILLUSIO!'f. 33
every step of their journey, new grounds of dissen·
sion, without the chance of finding an umpire who
could pronounce a satisfactory decision. Under
certain circumstances, indeed, the arbiter might set
aside theopinions ofboth the disputants, and render
it necessary to appeal to some higher authority,
-to beg he'd tell them if he knew
Whether the thing was red or blut!.
In the course of writing the preceding observa-
tions an ocular illusion occurred to myeell of so
extraordinary a nature, thatI am convinced it never
was seen before, and I think it far from probable
that it will ever be seen again. Upon directing my
eyes to the candles that were standing before me, l
was surprised to observe, apparentlyamongmyhair,
and nearly straight above my head, and far without
the range of vision, a distinct image of one of the
candles inclined about 45° to the horizon, as shown
at A. in Fig. 2. The image was as distinct and
Fig. 2.
o''""' ,,Coogle
'34 LET.TKRS O!'f NATURAL MAGIC.
perfect as if it bad been formed by reflexion from
a piece of mirror glass, though of course much lesa
brilliant, and the position of the image proved that
it must be formed by reflexion from a perfectly
flat and highly polished surface.·But where such a
surface CQuld be placed; and how, even if it were
fixed, it could reflect the image of the candle up
through my head, were difficulties not a little per-
plexing. Thinking that it might be something
lodged in the eyebrow, I covered it up from the
light, but the image still retained its place. I thea
examined the eyelashes with as little success, and
was driven to the·extreme supposition that a crys-
tallization was taking place in some part of the
aqueous humour of the eye, and that the image was .
formed by the reflexion of the light of the candle
from one of the crystalline faces. In this state of
uncertainty, and, I may add, of anxiety, for this
last supposition was by no means an agreeable one,
I set myself down to examine the phenomenon
experimentally. I found that the image varied its
place by the motion of the head and of the eyeball,
which proved that it was either attached to.the eye-
ball or occupied a place where it was affected by
that motion. Upon inclining the candle at different
angles the image suffered corresponding variations
of position. In order to determine the exact place
of the reflecting substance, I now took an opaque
· circular body and held it between the eye and the
candle till it eclipsed the mysterious image. By
bringing the body nearer and nearer the eyeball till
its shadow became sufficiently distinct to be !Seen,
it was easy to determine the locality of the reflec-
tor, because the shadow of the opaque-body muat
o''""' ,,Coogle
R:S:MARUBLB OPTICAL lLLVIION. SS
fall upon it whenever the .image of the candle waa
eclipsed. In this way I ascertained that the re6ect-
ing body was in the upper eyelash, and I found,
that, in consequenceofbeing disturbed, it had twice
changed its inclination, 80 as to represent a verti-
cal candle in the horizontal position B, and after-
wards in the inverted pesition C. Still, however,
I sought for it in vain, and even with the aid of
a magnifier I could not discover it. At last, how-
ever, Mrs. B. who possesses the perfect vision of
ebort-sighted persons, discovered, after repeated
examinations, between two eyelashes, a minute
speck, which, upon being removed with great diffi.
culty, turned out to he a chip of red wax not above
the hundredth part of a~ inch .in diameter, and
having its surface -eo perfectly fiat and so highly
polished that I could see in it the same image of
the candle, by placing it extremely near the eye.
This cbip·of wax had no doubt received its flatness
an4 its polish from the·surface of a seal, and had
started into my eye when breaking the seal of a
letter.
That this reflecting substance was the cause of
the image of the candle cannot admit of a doubt ;
but the wonder still remains how the images which
it formed occupied 80 mysterious a place as to be
seen without the range of vision, and apparently
through the head. In order to explain this, let
m n, Fig. 2, be a lateral view of th~ eye. The chip
of wax was placed at mat the root of the eyelashes,
and being nearly in contact with the outer surface
of the cornea, the light of the candle, which it re-
6ected, passed very obliquely through the pupil and
fell upon the retina somewhere to the left of n, very
c2
o''""' ,,Coogle
36 LBTTERS ON NATURAL YAGIC.
near where the retina terminates; 'but a ray thus
falling obliquely on the retina is seen, in virtue of
the law of visible direction already explained, in a
line n C perpendicular to the retina at the point
near n, where the-ray fell. ·Hence the·candle was
necessarily seen through the head as it were of the
observer, and without the range ofordinary vision.
The comparative brightness of the reflected image
!!till surprises me ; hut even this, if the image
really was brighter, may be explained by the fact,
that it was formed on a part of the retina upon
which light had never before fallen, and which
may therefore be supposed to be more sensible
than the parts of the membrane in constant use,
to luminous impressions.
Independent of its interest as an example of the
marvellous in vision, the preceding fact may be
considered as a proof that the retina retains its
power to its very termination near the ciliary pro-
cesses, and that the law of visible direction holds
true even without the range of ordinary vision. ·
It is therefore possible that a reflecting surface
favourably placed on the outside of the eye, or
that a reflecting surface in the inside of the eye,
may cause a luminous image to fall nearly on the
extreme margin of the retina, the consequence of
which would be that it would be seen in the back
of the head half way between a vertical and a
horizontal line.
SPECTBAL lLL'OilO:-fS, 37
LETTER III.
Subject of •pect•·ul illu•iom-Recent mtd ittlwellittg COlt of
Mr.. A.-Hw jirll il/,.nott affecting tile ear-Spectral
apparition of Iter lluaband-Sptclml ttpparitim ofacat-
.4ppm·ifion of a ltMr attd living relatien itt grtn~e-clotllt•
•etn in a loolti~tg·glaii-Other illrui~n• affecting the ear
-Spectre ofa decea1ed friend 1ilti1tg in alt ea•y clwir-
Spectruf11 coachmtdfourjllkd 10illt •lteltlon•-AccuriiCJ
and value of the preceding ca1e1-Stale of Ilea/Ill tmtlw
which tMy arote-Spectral apparition• are picture• on the
rtlifl4-1"he ideal of r~~maory and imaginatiolt are a/10
1'ictw1·e• o~ the rtlina-General vinN of the ~t~bject­
Af'p•·o:rimate t:rpla~tatiott of•pectral apparition•.
ToE preceding account of the different sources of
illusion to which the eye is subject, is not only
useful as indicating the probable cause of any
individual deception, but it has a special import·
ance in preparing the mind for understanding
those more vivid and permanent spectral illusions
to which some individuals have been either occa·
sionally or habitually subject.
In these lesser phenomena we find the retina so
-.powerfullyinfluenced by external impressions-as to
retain the view of visible objects long after they are
withdrawn; we observe it to be so excited by local
pressures of which we sometimes know neither the
nature nor the origin, as to see in total darkness
moving and shapeless masses of coloured light ;
and we find, as in the case of Sir Isaac Newton
o''""' ,,Coogle
JS LETT£R~ 0:-f NATURAL JiAGIC.
and others, that the imagination has the power of
reviving the impressions of highly luminous ob-
jects, months and even years after they were first
made. From su~h phenomena, the mind feels it
to be no violent transition to pass to those spectral
illusions which, in particular states ~fl!~alili, have
haunted the mosl intelligent individuals, not only
in the broad light of day, but in the very heart of
the social circle.
This curious subject has been so ably and fully
treated in your Letters on Demonology, that it
would be presumptuous in me to resume any part·
·of it on which you have even touched ; but as it
formw a necessary braneh of a Treatise on Natnral
Magic, and as one of the most remarkable cases
on record ·has come within my own knowledge, I
shall make no apology for giving a full account of
the different spectral appearances which it em-
braces, and of adding the results of a series of
observations and experiments on which I have
been long occupied, with the view of throwing some
light on this remarkable class of phenomena.
A few years ago I had occasion to spend some
days under the same roof with the lady to whose
ease I have above referred. At that time she had
seen no spectral illusions, and was acquainted
with the.subject only from the interesting volume of
Dr. Hibbert. In conversing with her about the
cause of these' apparitions, I mentioned, that if she
should ever t!ee such a thing.~.she jfght distinguish
~nine ghost existing ex.terna y, and.se.en aa
an external object, from one created by the mind,
ll;-merety pressing one eye or straining them both.
'"io aa to see objects double; for in this case .the·
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPECTRAL ILLUSIQNS. 3t
exte~al obje«~ <11' supposed apparition weuld--in-
variablybe doubled, while the imprcssion_on .t.he.
:retinil..created by the mind would remain single.
This observation :recurred to her mind when she
nnfortnnately becamesubject to the same illusions;
llut she waa too well acquainted with their nature
t.o require any such evidence of theirmental origin;
and the state of agitation which generally accom-
panies them seems to have preven,ted her from
making the experiment as a matter of curiosity.
1. The first illusion to which Mrs. A. was subject
was one which affected only the ear. On the 26th
of December, 1830, about half-past four in the
afternoon, she was standing near the fire in the
hall, and on the point of going up stairs to dres~
when she- heard, as she supposed, her husband's
voice calling her by name, " -- -- Come
here! come to me!" She imagined that he was
calling at the door to have it opened, but upon
going there and opening the door she was surprised
to find no person there. Upon returning to the
fire, she again heard the same voice calling out
very distinctly and loudly, " -- Come, come
here !" She then opened two doors of the
same room, and upon seeing no person she
returned. to the fire-place. After a. few moments
she heard the same voice still calling, " -
- - Come to me, come ! come away !, in 11. loud,
plaintive, and somewhat impatient tone. She an·
awered as loudly, "Where are you? l don't know
where you are;" still imagining that he was some·
where in search of her: but receiving no answer
she shortly went up stairs. On Mr. A.'s return to
the house, about half an hour afterwards, she in·
quired why he called to her so often, and where he
o''""' ,,Coogle
40 LETTliRS OY NATURAL KAGIC.
was ; and sbe was, of course, greatly surprised to
learn that he had not been near the house at the
time. A similar illusion, which excited no parti-
cular notice at the time, occurred to Mrs. A. when
residing at Florence about ten years before, and
when she was in perfect health. When she was
undressing after a ball, she heard a voice call her
repeatedly by name, and she was at that time un-
able to account for it. .
2. The next illusion which occurred to Mrs. A.
was of a more alarming character. On the 30th
of December, about four o'clock in the afternoon,
Mrs. A. came down stairs into the drawing-room,
which she had quitted only a few minutes before,
and on entering the room she saw her husband, as
she supposed, standing with his back to the fire.
As he had gone out to take a walk about half an
hourbefore, she was surprised to see him there, and
asked him why he had returned so soon. The figure
looked fixedly at her with a serious and thoughtful
expression of countenance, but did not speak.
Supposing that his mind was absorbed in thought,
she sat down in an arm-chair near the fire, and
within two feet at most ·or the figure, which she
still saw standing before her. As its eyes, how-
ever, still continued to be fixed upon her, she said,
after the lapse of a few minutes, "Why don't
you speak, -- ?" The figure immediately moved
off towards the window at the farther end of the
room, with its eyes still gazing on her, and it
passed so very close to her in doing so, that she
was struck by the circumstance of hearing no
step .nor sound, nor feeling her clothes brushed
against, nor even any agitation in the air. Al~
though she was now convinced that the figure wa~
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
not her husband, yet she never for a moment sup-
posed that it was any thing supernatural, and was
soon convinced that it was a spectral illusion. As
soon as this conviction had established itself in her
mind, she recollected the experiment which I had
suggested, of trying to double the object; but be-
fore she was able distinctly to do this, the figure
had retreated to the window, where it disappeared.·
Mrs. A. immediately followed it, shook the curtains
and examined the window, the impression having
been so·distinct and forcible that she was unwilling
to believe that it was not a reality. Finding, how-
ever, that the figure had no natural means of es•
cape, she was convinced that she had seen a spec-
tral apparition like those recorded in Dr. Hibbert's
work, and she consequently felt no alarm or agita-
tion. The appearance was seen in bright day-light;
and lasted four or five minutes. When the figure
stood close to her it 'concealed the real objects be-
hind it, and the apparition was fully as vivid as the
reality.
· 3. On these two occasions Mrs. A. was alone, but
when the next. phantasm appeared her husband
was present. This took place on the 4th of January,
1830. About ten o'clock at night, when Mr. and
Mrs. A. were sitting in the drawing-room, Mr. A.
took up the poker to stir the fire, and when he was
in the act of doing this, Mrs. A: exclaimed, "Why
there's the catin theroom!"-"Where?"asked Mr.
· A. ''There, close to you," she replied. "Where?'~
he repeated. "Why on the rug to be sure, between
yourself and the coal scuttle." Mr. A., who had
still the poker in his hand, pushed it in the direc~
tion mentioned: "Take care," cried Mrs. A. "take
care, you are hitting her with the poker." Mr. A.
o''""' ,,Coogle
.., LBT'J'JUlS ON N.UUIU.L-JU.GIC.
again aabcl Da- to point outexai:tly where she saw
the cat. She replied, " Why sitting up there close
to your feet oil the :rug. She is looking at me. It
is Kitty-come here, Kitty!"-There were two
cats in the house, one of which went by this name,
and they.were rarely if ever in the drawing-room.
At this time Mrs. A. had no idea that the sight of
the cat was an illusion. When she was asked to
touch it, she got up for the purpose, and seemed as
if she were punuing something which moved away.
She followed a few steps, and then said, " It has
gone under the chair." Mr. A. assured her it was
an illusion, but she would not believe it. He then
lifted up the chair, and Mrs. A saw nothing more
of it. The room was then searched all over, and
nothing found in it. There was a dog lying on
the hearth, who would have betrayed great un·
easiness if a cat had been in the room, but he lay
perfectly quiet. In order to be quite certain, M-r.
A. rung the bell, and sent for the two cats, both of .
which were found in the housekeeper's room.
4. About a month after this occurrence, Mn. A.,
who had taken a somewhat fatiguing drive during
the day, was preparing to go to bed about eleven
o'clock at night, and, sitting before the dressing-
glass, was occupied in arranging her hair. She
was in a listless and drowsy state of mind, but fully
awake. When her fingers were in active motion
among the papillotes, she was suddenly startled by
seeing in the mirror the figure of a near relation,
who was then in Scotland, and in perfect health.
The apparition appeared over herleft shoulder, and
itl eyes met her's in the glass. It was enveloped
in grave-clothes, closely pinned, as is usual with
. Sl'&CTR.AL JI,LUIIO!f& 43.
corpsea, round the head, and under the chin, and
though the eyes were open, the features were solemn
and rigid. The dress was evidently a shroud, •
Mrs. A. remarked even the punct11red pattern 1111l•
ally worked in a peculiar manner round the edges
~ that garment. Mn. A. described herself as at
the time sensible of a feeling like what we conceive·
of fascination, compelling her for a time to gaze on
this melancholy apparition, which was as distinct
and vivid as any reflectedreality could be, the light
of the candles upon the dressiug-table appearing to
ahine fully upon its face. After a few minutes, she
turned round to look for the reality of the form
over her shoulder; but it was not visible, and it
had also disappeared from the glaaa when she
looked again in that direction.
S. In the beginning of March, when Mr. A. had
been about a fortnight from home, Mn. A. fre-
quently heard him moving near her. Nearly every
night as she lay awake, she distinctly heard sounds
like his breathing hard on the pillow by her side,
and other sounds sueh as he might make while
turning in bed.
6. On another occasion, duringMr. A.'s absence,
while riding with a neighbour, Mr.--, she heard
his voice frequently as if he were riding by his
side. She heard also the tramp of his horse's feet,
· and was almost puzzled by hearing him addresa
her at the same time with the person really in com-
pa-ay. His voice made remarks on the scenery,
improvements, &c., such as he probably should
have done had he been present. On this occasion,
however, there was no visible apparition. .
· 7. On the 17th March, Mrs. A. was preparing
o''""' ,,Coogle
44 LETTJUlS ON NATURAL MAGtC,
for bed. She had dismissed her maid, and was
sitting with her feet in hot water. Having an ex-
cellent memory, she had been thinking upon and
repeating to herself a striking pa!!sage in the Edin-
burgh Review, when, on raising her eyes, she saw
seated in a large easy chair before her the figure of
a deceased friend, the sister of Mr. A. The figure
was dressed, as bad beeri usual with her, with great
neatness, but in a gown of a peculiar kind, such as
Mrs. A. had never seen her wear, but exactly such
as had been described to her by a common friend
as having been worn by Mr. A.'s sister during her
last visit to F;ngland. Mrs. A. paid particular at-
tention to the dress, air, and appearance of the
figure, which sat in an easy attitude in the chair,
holding a l1andkerchief in one hand. Mrs. A. tried
to speak to it, but experienced a difficulty in doing
so, and in about three minutes the figure disap-
peared. About a minute afterwards, Mr. A. came
into the room, and found Mrs. A. slightly nervous,
but fully aware of the delusive nature of the appa-
rition. She described it as having all the vivid
colouring and apparent reality of life; and for some
hours preceding this and other visions, she expe-
rienced a peculiar sensation' in her eyes, which
seemed to be relieved when the vision had ceased.
8. On the 5th October, between one and two
o'clock in the morning, Mr. A. was awoke by Mn.
A., '."ho told him that she had just seen the figure
of his deceased mother draw aside the bed-curtains
and appear between them. The dress and the look
of the apparition were precisely those in which
Mr. A.'s mother had been last seen by Mrs. A~
~t Paris in 1824.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
9. On the lith October, when sitting in the
drawing-room, on one side of the fire-place, she
saw the figure of another deceased friend moving
towards her from the window at the farther end of
the room. It approached the fire-place, and sat
down in the chair opposite. As there were several
persons in the room at the time, she de.ecribes the
idea uppermost in her mind to have been a fear
lest they should be alarmed at her staring, in the
way she was conscious of doing, at vacancy, and
should fancy her intellect disordered. Under the
influence of this fear, and recollecting a story of a
similar effect in your work on Pemonology, which
she had lately read, she summoned up the requisite
resolution to enable her to cross the space before
the fire-place, and seat herself in the same chair
with the figure. The apparition remained perfectly
distinct till she sat down, as it were, in its lap,
when it vanished.
10. On the 26th of the same month, about two
P.M. Mrs. A. was sitting in a chair by the window
in the same room with her husband. He heard
her exclaim-" What have I seen?" And on
looking at her, be observed a strange expression iu
her eyes and countenance. A c~rriage and four
bad appeared to her to be driving up the entrance-
road to the ltouse. As it approached, she felt in-
clined to go up stairs to prepare to receive com-
pany, but, as if spell-bound, she was unable to
move or speak. The carriage approached, and as
it arrived within a few yards of the window, she
saw the figures of the postillions and the persons
inside take the ghastly appearance of skeletons
and otheT hideous figures. The whole then vanished
o''""' ,,Coogle
46 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
entirely, when she uttered the above-mentioned
exclamation.
11. On the morning of the 30th October, when
Mrs. A. was sitting in her own room with a fa-
vourite dog in her lap, she distinctly saw the same
dog moving about the room during the space of
about a minute or rather more.
12. On the 3d December, about nine P.v., when
Mr. and Mrs. A. were sitting near each other in
the drawing-room occupied in reading, Mr. A. felt
a pressure on his foot. On looking up, he ob-
served Mrs. A.'s eyes fixed with a strong and un-
natural stare on a chair about nine or ten feet
distant. Upon asking her what she saw, the ex-
pression of her countenance changed, and upon
recovering herself, she told Mr. A. that she had
seen his brother, who was alive and. well at the
moment in London, seated in the opposite chair,
but dressed in grave-clothes, and with a ghastly
countenance, as if scarcely alive. '
f;luch is a brief account of the various spectral
illusions observed by Mrs. A. In describing them
I have used the very words employed by her hus-
band in his communications to me on the subject"';
and the reader may be assured that the descrip-
tions are neither heightened by fancy, nor ampli-
iied by invention. The high character and intel-
ligence of the lady, and the station of her husband
in society, and as a man of learning and science,
would authenticate the most marvellous narrative,
and satisfy the most scrupulous mind, that- the
case has been philosophically as well as faithfully
• Edinburgh Jounutl of SciencP, New Series, No. iv. pp.
218,219, No. vi. p. 244, and No. vlii. p. 261.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPECTRAL lLLU8JOHI.
described. In narrating events which we regard
u of a supernatural character, the mind hu a
strong tendency to give more prominence to what
appears to itself the most wonderful ; but from the
very same cause, when we describe extraordinary
and inexplicable phenomena which we belieYe to
be the result of natural causes, the mind is prone
to strip them of their most marvellous points, and
bJing them down to the level of ordinary events.
From the very commencement of the spectral illu-
sions seen by Mrs. A., both she and her husband
were well aware of their nature and origin, and
both of them paid the most minute attention to
the circumstances which accompanied them, not
only with the view of throwing light upon so cu-
rious a subject, but for the purpose of ascertaining
their connexion with the state of health under
which they appeared.
~t~.P!:C!!.e11seen by_N~colaiandq~ben .hacl
~eir origtn _
in b0dil¥. indispo8ition~ it ~_£~mea in-
teresltilg to learn .tbe &tate of.Mrs::A.•a health
'W1iei'l"iif1e.waiunder the influence of these illusions.
During the six weeks within which the three first
illusions took place, she had been considerably re-
duced and weakened by a troublesome cough, and
the weaknt>BS which this oCC&Bioned was increued
by her being prevented from taking a daily tonic.
Her general health had not been strong, and long
experience has put it beyond a doubt, that her
indisposition arises from a disordered state of the
digestive organs. Mrs. A. has naturally a mor-
bidly sensitive imagination, which so painfully
affects her corpQreal impressions, that the account
of any person having suffered severe pain by acci-
o''""' ,,Coogle
18 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
dent or otherwise, occasionally produces acute
twinges of pain in the corresponding parts of her
person. The aceount, for example, of the ampu~
tation of an arm will produce an instantaneous
and severe sense of pain in her own arm. She is
1ubject to talk in her sleep with great fluency, to
repeat long passages of poetry,_particularly when
she is unwell, and even to cap verses for half an
hour together, never failing to quote lines begin-
ning with the final letter of the preceding one till
her memory is exhausted.
Although it is not probable that we shall ever
be able to understand the actual manner in which
a person of sound minrl beholds spectral appari-
tions in the broad light of day, yet we may arrive
at such a degree of knowledge on the subject as
to satisfy rational curiosity, and to strip the phe-
nomena of every attribute of the marvellous.
Even the vision of natural objects presents to us
insurmountable difficulties, if we seek to under-
stand the precise part which the mind performs in
perceiving them ; but the philosopher considers
that he has given a satisfactory explanation of
vision, when he demonstrates that distinct pictures
of external objects are painted on the retina, and
that this membrane communicates with the brain
by means of nerves of the same substance as itself,
and of which it is merely an expansion. Here we
reach the gulf which human intelligence cannot
paBB; and if the presumptudus mind of man shall
' dare to extend itS speculations farther, it ·wm do
it .only to evince its incapacity and mortify its
pnde.
In his admirable work on this subject, Dr. Hib·
o''""' ,,Coogle
PICTURES ON THE RETINA, 49
bert bas shown that spectral apparitions are nothing
-more than ideas or the recollected images_of the
mind, which in·ceffii1risfates ofbodily indisposition
-have been renderedmore vivid than actual 1mpres•
sions, or, to use other words, that the pictures ia
the " mind's eye" are more vivid than the pictures
in t~e body's eye. This principle has been placed
by Dr. Hibbert beyond the reach of doubt; but I
prop3se to go much farther, and to show that the
•• mind's eye" is actually the body's eye, and that
the retina is the common tablet on which both
classes of impressions are painted, and by means
of which they receive their visual existence accord·
ing to the same optical laws. Nor is this tme merely
in the case of spectral illusions; it holds good
of all ideas recalled by the memory or created by
the imagination, and may be regarded as a fun-
jlamentallaw in the science of pneumatology.
It would be out of place in a work like this to
adduce the experimental evidence on which it rests,
or even to explain the manner'in w-
hich the expe-
riments themselves must be Ctlnducted : but I may
atate in general, that the spectres conjured up by
the memory or the fancy have always a "local
habitation," and that they appear .ill front of the
eye, and partake in its movements exactly like the
impressions of luminous objects, after the objects
themselves are withdrawn.
In the healthy state of the mind amlbOdy, the
reli.t1ve mterisity of these two classes of impres-
l!!ons on tlrtnetina are nicely adjusted. The men-
, ...._.tal-
pictures are transient and comparatively feeble,
~- andiiioi'~inary tem.Peramen~s ar.e never ca:p~ble
OTWsturb1ng or effacmg the drrect Images of VISible
- - D
o''""' ,,Coogle
./
6t LI!.TTBllS ON l'fATURAL IU.GIC.
objects. The affairs of life could not be carried on
if the-memory were to intrude bright representa-
tion• of the past into the domestic scene, or scatter
them over the external landscape. The two oppo-
aite impressions, indeed, could not co-exist : the
aame nervous fibre whichis carrying from the brain
to t~e retina the figures of memory, couldnot at the
same instant be carrying back the impressions of
external objects from the retina to the brain. The
mind cannot perform two different functions at the
same instant, and the direction of its attention to.
one of the two classes of impressions necessarily
produces the extinction of the other: but so rapidia
the exerciseof mental power, that the alternate ap•
pearance and d~sappearance of the two contending
impressions is no more recognized than the suc-
cessive observations of external objects during the
twinKling of the eyelids. If we look, for example,
at the fa~ade of St. Paul's, amt, without changing
our position, call to mind the celebrated view of
Mont Blanc from Lyons, the picture of the cathe-
dral, though actually impressed upon the retina, is
momentarily lost sight of by the mind, exactly like
an object seen by indirect vision; and during the
instant the recollected image of th.e mountain,
towering over the subjacent range, is distinctly
seen, but in a tone of subdued colouring, and in-
distinct outline. When the purpose of its recall is
answered, it quickly disappears, and the picture of
the cathedral again resumes the ascendancy.
In darkness and solitude, when external objects
no longer interfere with the pictures of the mind.
they be~ome more vivid and distinct ; and in the
state between waking and sleeping, the intensity of
o''""' ,,Coogle
PICl'URES ON THE RETINA. $1
theimpressions approaches to thatofvisible objects.
~-~rs
_
o~~ of s_
tut;l_io1.18 habits.. .w.h9 _
are much
~~-wi~~- !he _
operations of_their .ov.:n mil\dl,
'11i'e ment&rp1ctures are much more distmct than_
'in ordinary personsf and in the midst of abstract
llmught, ·external objects even cease to make any
impression on the retina. A philosopher absorbed
in his contemplations experiences a temporary pri-
vation of the use of his senses. His children or
his servants will enter the room directly before hia
eyes without being seen. They will speak to him
without being heard; and they will even try to
rouse him from his reverie without being felt;
although his eyes, his ears, and his nerves actu-
ally receive the impressions of light, sound, and
touch. In such cases, however, the philosopher is
voluntarily punning a train of thought on which
his mind is deeply interested ; but even ordinary
men, not much addicted to speculations ofany kind,
often perceive in their mind•s eye the pictures of
deceased or absent friends, or even ludicrous crea-
tions of fancy, which have no connexion whatever
with the train of their' thoughts. Like spectral
apparitions they are entirely involuntary, and
though they may have sprung from a regular aerie«.
of associations, yet it is frequently impossible to,
discover a single link in the chain.
. If it be true, then, that the pictures of the mind
and spectral illusions are equally impressions upon
the retina, the latter will differ in no respect from
the for~~liuei!i..!h~~Q_e_gr~ of vividness with
1VIiiClithey areseen; and those frightful apparitions
hecoiiitntothin-g more than our ordinary ideas, ren-
dered more brilliant by some accidental and tem-
n2
o''""' ,,Coogle
52 LKTTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
porary derangement of the vital functions. Their
veryvividness,too, whichistheir onlycharacteristic,
is capable of explanation. I have already shown
that the retina is rendered more sensible to light by
voluntary local pressure, as well as by the involun-
tary pressure of the blood-vessels behind it; and if,
by looking at the sun, we impress upon the retina -
a coloured image of that luminary, which is seen
even when the eye is shut, we may by pressure alter
the colour of that image, in consequence of having
increased the sensibility of that part of the retina
on which it is impressed. Hence we may readily
understand how the vividness ofthe mental pictures
- must be increased by analogous causes.
In the case both ofNicolai and Mrs. A. the im-
mediate cause of the spectres was a deranged action
of ~he stomach. When such a derangement is
induced by poison, or by substances which act as
poisons, the retina is peculiarly affected, and the
phenomena of vision singularly changed. Dr.
Patouillet has described the case of a family of
·nine persons who were all driven mad by eating
·the root of the Hyoscyamus niger or black. Hen-
bane. One of them leapt into a pond;·.imother
exclaimed that his neighbour would lose a·cow
in a month, and a third vociferated that tlie crown
piece of sixty pence would in a short time rise
to five livres. On the following day they had all
recovered their senses, but recollected nothing of
what had happened. On the same day they all
saw objects double, and, what is still more remark-
able, on the third day every object appeared to
ther" as red as-scarlet. Now this red light was
vrobably nothing more tliiiri the red phosphore-
o''""' ,,Coogle
GENERAL VIEWS,
~cence _
p_roduced by the pressure of the blood~
vessels on the retina, and analogous to the masses
-of blue-, green, yellow, and red light, which have
been already mentioned as produced by a similar
- pressure in headaches, arising from a disordered
state of the digestive organs.
Were we to analyse the various phenomena of
spectral illusions, we should discover many circum~
stances favourable to these views. In those seen by
Nicolai the individual figures were always some•
what paler than natural objects. They sometimes
grew more and more indistinct, and became per-
fectly white; and, to use his own words, " he
could always distinguish with the greatest precision
phantasms from phenomena." Nicolai sometimes
saw tlJe spectres when his eyes were shut; and
sometimes they were thus made to disappea~,­
effects perfectly identical with those which arise
from the impressions of very luminous objects.
Sometimes the figures vanished entirely; and at
other times only piecQS of them disappeared, ex-
actly conformable to what takes place with objects
seen by indirect vision, which most of those
figures must necessarily have been.
· Amongthe peculiaritiesofspectral illusionsthere
is one which merits particular attention, namely,
that they seem to cover or conceal objects imme-
!liately beyond them. .It is this circumstance more
than any other which gives them the character of
reality, and at first sight it seems difficult of ex-
planation. The distinctness of any impression on
the retina is entirely independent of the accommo-
dation of the eye to the distinct vision of external
objerts. When the eye is at rest, and is not ac•
o''""' ,,Coogle
~( LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
eommouated to objects·at arly particular distance,
it is in a state for seeing distant objects most
perfectly. When a distinct spectral impression,
therefore, is before it, all other objects in its vici-
nity will be seen indistinctly, for while the eye is
engrossed with the vision, it is not likely to accom-
modate itself to any other object in the same direc-
tion. It is quite common, too, for the eye to see
only one of two objects actually presented to it.
A spottsman who has been in the practice of shoot-
ing with both his eyes open actually sees a double
image of the muzzle of his fowling-piece, though
it is only with one of these images that he covers
his game, having no perception whatever of the
other. But there is still another principle upon
which only one of two objects may be seen at a
time. If we look very steadily and continuously
at a double pattern, such as those on a carpet com-
posed of two single patterns of different colours,
suppose red and yelluw ; and if we direct the mind
particularly to the contem}lhtion of the red one,
the green pattern will sometimes vanish entirely,
leaving the red one alone visible, and by the same
process the red one may be made to disappear. In
this case, however, the two patterns, like the two
images, may be seen together ; but if the very
same portion of the retina is excited by the direct
rays of an external object, when it is excited by a
mental impression, it can no more see them both
at the same time than a vibrating string can give
out two different fundamental sounds. It is quite
possible, however, that the brightest parts of a
spectral figure may be distinctly seen along with
the brightest parts of an object immediately behind
•
o''""' ,,Coogle
GBNBlU.L VllnVI. $5
it, but then the bright parts of each object will fall
upon different parts of the retina.
These views are illustrated by a case mentioned
by Dr. Abercrombie. A gentleman, who was a
patient of his, of an·irritable habit, and liable to a
' variety of uneasy sensations in his head, was sitting
alone in his dining-room in the twilight, when
the door of the room was a little open. He saw
distinctly a female figure enter, wrapped in a
mantle, with th• face concealed by a large black
bonnet. She seemed to advance a few steps to-
wards him, and then stop. He had a full con-
viction that the figure was an illusion of vision,
and be amused hinlself for some time by watching
it ; at the same time observing that he could see
through the figure so as to perceive tile lock of
the door, and <lilier objects behind it"'.
H these views be correct, the phenomena of
apectral apparitiona are stripped of all their terror,
whether we view them in ilieir supernatural cha-
racter, or as indicaij~ns of bodily indisposition.
Nicolai, even, in whose case they were accom-
panied with alarming symptoms, derived pleasure
from the contemplation of them, and he not only
recovered from the complaint in which they origi-
nated, but survived them for many yean.-Mrs. A.,
too, who sees them only at distant intervals, and
with whom iliey have but a fleeting existence, will.
we trust, soon lose her exclusive privilege, when
the slight indisposition which gives them birth hu
:sub,Wed.
• Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powe1'11, and~the
Iove&tibration of Truth. Edinburgh, 1830.
o''""' ,,Coogle
56 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
LETTER IV.
Science uaecl aa an inatrument ofimpollure-Deceptiona with
plane and concave mirror• practiaecl b!lthe ancimta-The
magician'• mirror-EJ!ecta of concave mirrora-Aerial
lmage1-lmage• on Smolie-Combination of mi1·ror1 for
• producing pictr~rea from living obJeclt-The tn!lalerioul
dagger-Ancimt miracle• with concate mirrora-Modern
nl'cromanc!l UJith them, tU rem by Cellitti-Dncription and
'iftcla of the magic lanlern-Improcementa upon it-
Phanlaamagoric ezltibition1 of Philiprta/arul olhera-Dr.
Youttg'• arrangement of J.en•e•; 4"c. for 1M Phanta•ma·
goria-Improvemenla auggelled-C'.o.tadioptrical phanlal<
magoriafor pro<lucing the picture• from lirJing obJect•-
Methud ofcutting oJf parta ofthe jigure1-Kirche•·'• m!l...
teriour hanclwt•iting on the wa/1-Hia hollow •·!llinclrical
mirrorfor a~"rialimager-Cylindricalmirror for re-form•
ing di1tort~d picturea-Mirron ofvario.ble curraturefor
procl11cing cariclllurel,
IN the preceding observations man appears as the
lictim of his own delusions-as the magician un-
able to exorcise the spirits which he has himself
called into being. We shall now see him the dupe
of preconcerted imposture-the slave of his own
ignorance-the prostrate vassal of power and su-.
perstition. I have already stated that the monarchs
and priests of ancient times carried on a systematic
plan of imposing upon their subjects-a mode of
government which was in perfect accordance with
their religious belief: but it will scarcely be be-
lieved that the same delusions were practised after
o''""' ,,Coogle
~LANB AND CONCAVB JofJRllORS. 67
the establishment of Christianity, and that even
the Catholic sanctuary was oftes the seat of these
unhallowed machinations. Nor was it merely the
low and cunning priest who thus sought to extort
money and respect from the most ignorant of his
Bock: bishops and pontiffs themselves wielded the
magician's wand over the diadems of kings and
emperors, and, by the pretended exhibition of su-
pernatural power, made the mightiest potentates
of Europe tremble upon tbeir thrones. It was the
light of science alone which dispelled this moral
and intellectual darkness, and it is entirely in con•
sequence of its wide diffusion that we live in times
when sovereigns seek to reign only through the
affections of their people, and when the minister of
religion asks no other reverence but that which is
inspired by the sanctity of his office and the purity
of his character.
It was. fortunate for the human race that the
scanty knowledge of former ages afforded so few
~lements of deception. What a tremendous engine
would .have been worked against our species by
the varied and powerful machinery of modem
science! Man would still have worn the shackles
which it forged, and his noble spirit would still
have groaned beneath its fatal pressure.
There can be little doubt that the most common,
.I!S well as the most successful, impositions of the
ancients were of an optical nature; and were prac-
_tised by means of• plane and concave mirrors.
It has been clearly shown by various writers that
the ancients made use of mirrors of steel, silver,
'and a composition of copper and tin, like those
·now used for reflecting specula. It is also very
o''""' ,,Coogle
58 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
probable, from a passage in Pliny, that glass mir-
rors were made at Sidon ; but it is evident, that,
unless the object presented to them was illumi-
nated in a very high degree, the images which they
formed must have been very faint and unsa~sfac­
tory. The silver mirrors, therefore, which were
universally used, and which are superior to those
made of any other metal, are likely to have been
most generally employed by the ancient magicians.
They were made to give multiplied and inverted
images of objects, that is, they ·were plane, poly-
.gonal or many-sided, and concave. There is one
property, however, mentioned by. Aulus Gellius,
which has given unnecessary perple"Xity to com-
mentators. He states that there were specula,
~~Vhich, when put in a particular place, gave no
images of objects, but when carried to another
place, recovered their property of reflexion•.
M. Salverte is of opinion that, in quoting Varro,
Aulus Gellius was not sufficiently acquainted with
the subject, and erred in supposing that the phe-
nomenon depended on the place instead of the po-
sition of the mirror'; but this criticism is obviously
made with the view of supporting lm opinion of
~s own, that the property in question may be ana-
logous to the phenomenon of polarised light, which,
at a certain angle, refuses to suffer reflexion from
particular bodies. If this idea bas any foundation,
the mirror must have been of glass or some other
body not metallic, or, to speak more correctly,
there must have been two such mirrors, so nicely
;q Ut ~cvlum in loco cuto posit11m nihil imaginet; a/ior-
aa~m translaiMm facial imagine1. AuL Gel. Noc:t. Attic. lib.
_xvi, cap. 18.
o''""' ,,Coogle
:HAGICI.U(& MIRROR. 59
adjusted not only to one another, but to the light
incident upon each, that the effect could not pos-
sibly be produced but by a philosopher thoroughly
acquainted with the modern discovery of the pola-
risation of light by reflexion. Without seeking for
so profound an explanation of the phenomenon,
we may readily understand how a silver mirror
may instantly lose its reflecting power in a damp
atmosphere, in consequence of the precipitation of
moisture upon its surface, and may immediately
recover it when transported into drier air.
One of the simplestinstruments of optical decep-
tian is theplane mirror, and when two are combined
for this purpose it has been called the magician's
mirror. An observer in front of a plane mirror
sees a distinct image of himself; but if two persons
take up a mirror, and if the one person is as much
to one side of a line perpendicular to the middle of
it as the other is to the other side, they will see
Fig. 3.
Jl c
B
lJ
each other, but not themselves. If we now suppoae
MC, CD, NC, CD to be the partitions of two
o,, ..a.,Google
60 LJ;:TTEllS ON N4TUllAL MAGiC.
adjacent apartments, let square openings be made
in the partitions at A and B, about five feet above
the floor, and let them be filled with plate glass, and
surrounded with a picture frame, so as to have the
appearance of two mirrors. Place two mirrors, E,
F, one behind each opening at A and B, inclined
45° to the partition MN, and so large that a person
looking into the plates of glass at A and B will not
see their edges. When this is done it is obvious that
a person looking into the mirror A will not see him-
self, but will see any person or figure placed at B.
ff he believes that he is looking into a common
mirror at A, his astonishment will be great at seeing
himself transformed into another person, or into
any living animal that may be placed at B. The
success of this deception would be greatly increased
if a plane mirror suspended by a pulley could be
brought immediately behind the plane glass at A,
and drawn up from it at pleasure. The spectator
at A having previously seen himself in this move-
able mirror, would be still :more astonished when
he afterwards perceived in the same place a face
different from his own. By drawing the moveable
mirror half up, the spectator at A might see half of
his own face joined to half of the face placed at B ;
but in the present day the most ignorant persons
are so familiar with the properties of a looking-glass,
that it would be very difficult to employ this kind
ofdeception with the same success which must have
attended it in a more illiterate age. The optical
reader will easily see that the mirrorFand theapart-
ment NCD are not absolutely necessary for carry-
ing on this deception ; for the very same effects
will be produced if the person at B is stationed at
o''""' ,,Coogle
. CONCAVE MIRRORS. 61
G, and looks towards the mirror F in the direc-
tion GF. As the mirror F, however, must be
placed as near to A as possible, ·the person at G
would be too near the partition CN, unless the
mirror F was extremely large.
The effect of this and every similar deception is
greatly increased when the persons are illuminated
with a strong light, and the rest of the apartment
as dark as possible; but whatever precautions are
taken, and however skilfully plane mirrors are
combined, it is not easy to produce with them any
very successful illusions.
The concave mirror is the staple instrument of
the magician's cabinet, and must always perform a
principal part in all optical combinations. In order
to be quite perfect, every concave mirror should
have its surface elliptical, so that if any object is
placed in one focus of the ellipse, an inverted image
of it will be formed in the other focus. This image,
to a spectator rightly placed, appears suspended in
the air, so that if the mirror and the object are hid
from his view, the effect must appear to him al-
most supernatural.
The method of exhibiting the effect of concave
mirrors most advantageously is shown in Fig. 3,
where CD is the partition of a room having in it
a square opening EF, the centre of which is about
five feet above the floor. This opening might be
surrounded with a picture frame, and a painting
which exactly filled it might be so connected with
a pulley that it could be either slipped aside, or
raised so as to leave the frame empty. A large
concave mirror MN is then placed in another
apartment, so that when any object is placed at
o''""' ,,Coogle
62 LETTERS ON NATURAL liAGIC.
A, a distinct .image of it may be formed in t~e
centre of the opening EF. ),et us suppose this
Fig. 4.
object to be a plaster cast of any object made as
white as possible, and placed in an inverted posi-
tion at A. A strong light should then be thrown
upon it by a powerful lamp, the rays of which are
prevented from reaching the opening EF. When
this is done, a spectator placed at 0 will see an ·
erect image of the statue at B, the centre of the
opening, standing in the air, and differing from
the real statue only in being a little larger, while
the apparition will be wholly invisible to other
spectators placed at a little distance on each side
of him.
If the opening EF is filled with smoke rising
either from a chafing-dish, in which incense is
burnt, or made to issue in clouds from some open-
ing below, the image will appear in the middle of
the smoke, depicted upon it as upon a ground, and
capable of· being seen by those spectators who
o''""' ,,Coogle
MYSTERIOUS DAGGBJl, 63
could not see the image in the air. The rays of
light, in place of proceeding without obstruction
to an eye at 0, are reflected as it were from those
minute particles of whi~ the smoke is compoaed,
in the same manner as a beam of light is rendered
more visible by passing through an apartment
filled with dust or smoke.
It bas long been a favourite experiment to place
at A, a white and strongly illuminated human
skull, and to exhibit an ·image of it amid the
smoke of a chafing-dish at B ; but a more terrific
effect would be produced if a small skeleton, sus-
pended by invisible wires, were placed as an object
at A. Its image suspended in the air at B, or
painted upon smoke, could not fail to astonish the
spectator.
The difficulty of placing a living person in an
inverted position, as an object at A, has no doubt
prevented the optical conjuror from availing him-
self of so admirable a resource; but this difficulty
may be removed by employing a second concave
mirror. This second mirror must be so placed as
to reflect towards MN, the rays proceeding from
an erect living object, and to form an inverted
image of this object at A. An erect image of this
inverted image will then be formed at B, either
suspended in the air or depicted upon a wreath of
smoke. This aerial image will exhibit the precise
form and colours and movements of the living ob-
ject, and it will maintain its character as an appa-
rition if any attempt is made by the spectator to
grasp its unsubstantial fabric.
A deception of an alarming kind, called the
Mysterious dagger, has been long a favourite ex-
o''""' ,,Coogle
64 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
hibition. If a person with a drawn and highly
polished dagger, illuminated by a strong light,
stands a little farther from a concave mirror than
its principal focus, he will perceive in the air be·
tween himself and the mirror an inverted and di-
minished image of his own person, with the dagger
sim~larly brandished. If he aims the dagger at
the centre of the mirror's concavity, the two dag-
gers will meet point to point, and, by pushing it
still farther from him towards the mirror, the
imaginary dagger will strike at his heart. hi this
case it is necessary that the direction of the real
dagger coincides with a diameter of the sphere of
which the mirror is a part; bnt if its direction is
on one side of that diameter, the direction of the
imaginary dagger will be as far on the other side
of the diameter, and the latter will aim a blow at
any person who is placed in the proper position
for receiving it. If the person who bears the real
dagger is therefore placed behind a screen, or
otherwise concealed from the view of the spec-
tator, who is made to approach to the place of the
image, the thrust of the polished steel at his breast
will not fail to produce a powerful impression.
The effect of this experiment would no doubt be
increased by covering with black cloth the person
who holds the dagger, so that the image of his
hand only should be seen, as the inverted picture
of him would take away from the reality of the
appearance. By using two mirrors, indeed, this
defect might be remedied, and the spectator would
witness an exact image of the assassin aiming the
dagger at his life.
The common way of making this experiment is
o''""' ,,Coogle
CONCAVB MIRRORS,
to place a basket of fruit above the dagger, so that
a distinct aerial image of the fruit is formed in the
focus of the mirror. The spectator, having been
desired to take some fruit from the basket, ap-
proaches for that purpose, while a person properly
concealed withdraws the real basket of fruit with
one hand, and with the other advances the dagger,
the imageofwhich, being no longer covered by the
fruit, strikes at the body of the astonished spectator.
The powers of the concave mirror have been
likewise displayed in exhibiting the apparition of
an absent or deceased friend. For this purpo11e, a
strongly illuminated bust or picture of the person
is placed before the concave mirror; and a distinct
image of the picture will be seen either in the air
or among smolce in the manner already described.
If the background of the picture is temporarily
covered with lamp-black, so that there is no light
about the picture but what falls upon the figure,
the effect will be more complete.
As in all experiments with concave mirrors, the
size of the aerial image is to that of the real object
as their distances from the mirror, we may, by va-
rying the distance of the object, increase or dimi-
nish the size of the image. In doing this, how-
ever, the distance of the image from the mirror is
at the same time changed, so that it would quit the
place most suitable for its exhibition. This defect
may be removed by simultaneously changing the
place both of the m1rror and the object, so that the
image may remain stationary, expanding itself
from a luminous spot to a gigantic size, and again
passing through all intermediate magnitudes,- till
it vanishes in a cloud of light.
E
o''""' ,,Coogle
G6 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
Those who have studied the effects of concave
mirrors of a small size, and without the precau·
nons necessary to ensure deception, cannot form
any idea of the magical effect produced by this
class of optical apparitions. When the instruments
ofillusion are theiDBelves concealed,-when all ex-
traneous lights but those which illwillnate the real
object are excluded,-when the mirrors are large
and well polished and truly formed,-the effect of
the representation on ignorant minds is altogether
overpowering, while even those who know the de·
ception, and perfectly understand its principles,
are not a little surprised at its effects. The inferi-
ority in the effects of a common concave mirror to
that of a well-arranged exhibition is greater even
than that of a perspective picture hanging in an
apartment, to the same picture exhibited under all
the imposing accompaniments of a dioramic re-
presentation.
It can scarcely be doubted, that a concave mir-
.ror was the principal instrument by which the hea-
then gods were made to appear in the ancient tem-
' ples. In the imperfect'accounts which have reached
us of these apparitions,we can trace all the elements
of an optical illusion. In the ancient temple of
Hercules at Tyre, Pliny mentions that there was a
seat made of a consecrated stone, " from which the
gods easily rose." Esculapius often exhibited him-
self to his worshippers in his temple at Tarsus;
and the temple of Enguinum in Sicily was cele-
brated as the place where the goddesses exhibited
themselves to mortals. Iamblichus actually in-
forms us, that the ancient magicians caused the
gods to appeaT among the vapours disengaged from
o''""' ,,Coogle
CONCAVE MIRRORS,
tire; and when the conjuror Maximus terrified
hia audience by making the statue of Hecate
laugh, while in the middle of the fmoke of burning
incense, he was obviously dealing with the image
of a living object dressed in the c<iatume of the
sorceress.
The characterof these exhibitions in the ancient
temples ia so admirably depicted in the following
passage of Damascius quoted by M. Salverte, that
we recognize all the optical effects which have been
already described. "In a manifestation," says
he, "which ought not to be revealed . . . there
appeared on the wall of the temple a mass of light
which at first seemed to be very remote; it trans-.
formed itself, in coming nearer, into a face evi-.
dently divine and supernatural, of a severe aspect,.
but mixed with gentleness, and extremely beauti-
ful. According to the inatitutions of a mysterious
religion, the Alexandrians honoured it as Osiris
and Adonis.,
Among more modem examples of thia illusion,
we may mention the case of the Emperor Basil of
Macedonia. Inconsolable at the loss of his son,.
this sovereign had recourse to the prayers of the
Pontiff Theodore Santabaren, who was celebrated.
for his power of working miracles. The ecclesi-
astical conjuror exhibited to him the image of rna-
beloved son magnificently dreBSed and mounted·
upon a superb charger : the youth rushed towards
his father, threw himself into his arms, and disap-
peared. M. Salverte judiciously observes, that
this deception could not have been performed by a
real person, who imitated the figure of the young
prince. The existence of this person, betrayed by
E 2
o''""' ,,Coogle
68 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
so remarkable a resemblance, and by the trick of
the exhibition, could not fail to have been disco-
-vered and denounced, even if we could explain how
the son could be so instantaneously dis.entangled
from his father's embrace. The emperor, in short,
saw the aerial image of a picture of his son on
horseback, and as the picture was brought nearer
the mirror, the image advanced into his arms,
when it of course eluded his affectionate grasp.
These and other allusions to the operations of
the ancient magic, though sufficiently indicative of
the methods which were employed, are too meagre
to convey any idea of the splendid and imposing
exhibitions which must have been displayed. A
national system ofdeception, intended as an instru-
ment of government, must have brought into re-
quisition not merely the scientific skill of the age,
but a variety of subsidiary contrivances, calculated
to astonish the beholder, to confound his judg-
ment, to dazzle his senses, and to give a predomi-
nant influence to the peculiar imposture which it
was thought desirable to establish. The grandeur
of the means may be inferred from their efficacy,
and from the extent of their influence.
This defect, however, is, to a certain degree,
supplied by an account of a modern necromancy,
which has been left us by the celebrated Benve-
nuto Cellini, and in which he himself performed
an active part. .
'' It happened," says be, " through a variety of
odd accidents, that I made acquaintance with a-
Sicilian pri~st, who was a man of genius, and well
versed in the Latin and Greek authors. Hap-
pening _one day to have some conversation with
o''""' ,,Coogle
MODERN NECROMANCY, 69
him when the subject turned upon the art of ne-
cromancy, I, who had a great desire to know
something of the matter, told him, that I had all
my life felt a curiosity to be acquainted with the
mysteries of this art.
" The priest made answer, 'That the man must
be of a resolute and steady temper who enters
upon that study.' I replied, ' That I had fortitude
and resolution enough, if I could but find an
opportunity.' The priest subjoined, ' If you think
you have the heart to venture, I will give you all
the satisfaction you can desire.' Thus we agreed
to enter upon a plan of necromancy. The priest
one evening prepared to satisfy me, and desired
me to look out for a companion or two. I invited
one Vincenzio Romoli, who was my intimate ac-
quaintance: he brought with him a native of
Pistoia, who cultivated the black art himself. We
repaired to the Colosseo, and the priest, according
to the custom of necromancers, began to draw
circles upon the ground, with the most impressive
ceremonies imaginable: he likewise brought hither
assafretida, several preciousperfumes, and fire, with
some compositions also, which diffused noisome
odours. As soon as he was in readiness, he made
an opening to the circle, and having taken us by
the hand, ordered the other necromancer, hi!! part-
ner, to throw the perfumes into the fire at a proper
time, entrusting the care of the fire and perfumes
to the rest; and thus he began his incantations.
This ceremony lasted above an hour and a half,
when there appeared several legions of devils, in-
somuch that the amphitheatre was quite filled with
them. I was busy about the perfumes, when the ·
o''""' ,,Coogle
iO LF.TTllltS ON NATUR .\L MAGIC.
priest, perceiving there was a considerable num-
ber of infernal spirits, turned to me and said,
'Benvenuto, ask them something.' I answered,
' Let them bring me into the company of my
Sicilian mistress Angelica.' That night he ob-
tained no answer of any sort ; but I had received
great satisfaction in having my curiosity so far
indulged. The necromancer told me it was requi-
site we should go a second time, assuring me
that I should be satisfied in whatever I asked ;
but .that I must bring with me a pure, immaculate
boy.
" I took with me a youth who was in my service,
of about twelve years of age, together with the
same Vincenzio Romoli who had been my com-
panion the first time, and one Agnolino Gaddi, an
intimate acquaintance, whom I likewise" prevailed
1>n to assist at the ceremony. When we came to
the place appointed, the priest having made his
preparations as before, with the same and even
more striking ceremonies, placed us within the
circle, which he had likewise drawn with a more
wonderful art, and in a more solemn manner than
at our former meeting. Thus, having committed
the care of the perfumes and the fire to my friend
Vincenzio, who was assisted by Agnolino Gaddi,
he put into my hand a pintaculo or magical chart,
and bid me turn it towards the places that he
should direct me ; and under the pintaculo I held
the boy. The necromancer, having ~gun to make
his tremendous invocations, called by their names
a multitude of demons who were the leaders of
the several legions, and questioned them, by the
power of the eternal uncreated God, who lives for
o''""' ,,Coogle
MODKJtN NKCROMANCY. 71
ever, in the Hebrew language, as likewise in Latin
and Greek; insomuch that the amphitheatre was
almost in an instant filled with demous more
numerous than at the former conjuration. Vin-
cenzio Romoli was busied in making a fire, with
the assistance of Aguolino, and burning a great
quantity of precious perfumes. I, by the directions
of the necromancer, again desired to be in the
company of my Angelica. The former thereupon
turning to me said,-' Know, they have declared
that, in the space of a month, you shall be in her
company.'
"He thus requested me to stand resolutely by
him,because the legions werenow above a thousand
more in number than he had designed ; and besides,
these were the most dangerous; so that, after they
h,ad answered my question, it behoved him to be
civil to them, and dismiss them quietly. At the
.same time the boy under the pintaculo was in a
terrible fright, saying, that there were in that place
a million of fierce men, who threatened to destroy
us; and that, moreover, four armed giants. of
enormous stature were endeavouring to break into
our circle. During tpis time, whilst the necro-
mancer, trembling with fear, endeavoured by mild
and gentle methods to dismiss them in the best
way he could, Vincenzio Romoli, who quivered
like an aspen leaf, took care of the perfumes.
Though I was as much terrified as any of them, I
did my utmost to conceal the terror I felt; so that
I greatly contributed to inspire the rest with reso-
lution; but the truth is, I gave myself over for a
dead man, seeing the horrid fright the necromancer
was in. The boy placed his head between his
o''""' ,,Coogle
72 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
knees and said, ' In this posture will I die; for
we shall all surely perish.' I told him that all these
demons were under us, and what he saw was
smoke and shadow ;. so bid him hold up his head
and take courage. No sooner did he look up than
he cried out, 'The whole amphitheatre is burn-
ing, and the fire is just falling upon us.' So co-
vering his eyeswith his hands, he again exclaimed,
' that destruction wa!! inevitable, and desired to
see no more.' The necromancer entreated me to
have a good heart, and take care to bum proper
perfumes; upon which I turned to Romoli, and
bid him burn all the most precious perfumes he
had. At .the same time, I Cft!!t my eye upon
Agnolino Gaddi, who was terrified to such a de-
gree that he could scarce distinguish objects, and
seemed to be half-dead. Seeing him in this con-
dition, I said, 'Agnolino, upon these occasions a
man ishonld not yield to fear, but should stir about
and give his assistance, so come directly and put
on some more of these.' The effects of poor
Agnolino's fear were overpowering. The boy
hearing a crepitation ventured once more to raise
his head, when, seeing me laugh, he began to take
courage, Rnd said 'That the devils were flying
awRy with a vengeance.'
" In this condition we stayed till the bell rung
for morning prayers. The boy again told us, that
there remained but few devils, and these were at a
great distance. When the magician had performed
the rest of his ceremonies, he stripped off his
gown, and took up a wallet full of books which he
had brought with him.
"We all went out of the circle together, keeping
o''""' ,,Coogle
:MODERN NECROMANCY. 73
as close to each other as we possibly could, espe-
cially the boy, who had placed himselfin the middle,
holding the necromancer by the coat, and me by
the cloak. As we were going to our houses in the
• quarter of Banchi, the boy told us that two of the
demons whom we had seen at the amphitheatre
went on before us leaping and skipping, sometimes
running upon the roofs of the houses, and some-
times upon the ground. The priest declared, that
though he had often entered magic circles, nothing
so extraordinary had ever happened to him. As
we went along, he would fain persuade me to assist
with him at consecrating a brook, from which, he
said, we should derive immense riches : we should
then ask the demons to discover to us the various
treasureswithwhich the earth abounds, whichwould
raise us to opulence and power; but that these love-
affairs were mere follies, from whence no good could
be expected. I answered, 'That I would readily
have accepted his proposal, if I understood Latin.'
He redoubled his persuasions, assuring me, that
~he knowledge of the Latin language was by no
Jlleans material. . He added, that he could have
Latin scholars enough, if be had thought it worth
while to look out for them, but that he could never
have met with a partner of resolution and intrepi-
dity equal to mine, and that I should by all means
follow his advice. Whilst we were engaged i~ this
conversation, we arrived at our respective houses,
and all that night dreamt of nothing bu~ devils.,
It is impossible to peruse the preceding descrip-
tion without being satisfied that the legions of de"":"
viis were not produced by any influence upon the
imaginations of the spectators, but were actual op-
o''""' ,,Coogle
14 LETTE&S ON NATURAL MAGIC.
tical phantasms, or the images of pictures or ob-
jects produced by one or more concave mirrors or
lenses. A fire is lighted, and perfumes and incense
are burnt, in order to create a ground for the
images, and the beholders are rigidly confined"'
within the pale of the magic circle. The concave
mirror and the objects presented to it having been
so placed that the persons within the circle could
not see the aerial image of the objects by the rays
directly reflected from the mirror, the work of de-
ception was ready to begin. The attendance of
the magician upon his mirror was by no means
necessary. He took his place along with the
spectators within the magic circle. The images of
the devils were all distinctly formed in the air im-
mediately above the fire, but none of them could
be seen by those within the circle. The moment,
however, that perfumes were thrown into the fire to
produce smoke, the first wreath of amoke that rose
through the place of one or more of the images,
would reflect them to the eyes of the spectator, and
they could again diwappear if the wreath was not
followed by another. More and more images
would be rendered visible as new wreaths of smoke
arose, and the whole group would appear at once
when the smoke was uniformly diffused over the
place occupied by the images.
The '' compositions which diffused noisome
odours" were intended to intoxicate or stupify the
spectators, so as to increase their liability to de-
ception, or to add to the real phantasms which were
before their eyes others which were the offspring
only of their own imaginations. It is not easy to
gather from the description what parts of the ex-
o''""' ,,Coogle
• KODBBH NBCROKAKCY.
hibition were actwtlly presented to the eyes of the
spectaton, and what parts of it were imagined by
themselves. It is quite evident that the boy, aa
well as Agnolino Gaddi, were so overpowered with
terror that they fancied many things which they
did not see; but when the boy declares that four
armed giants, of an enormous stature, were threat-
ening to break into the circle, he gives an accurate
description of the effect that would be produced
by pushing the figures nearer the mirror, and then
magnifying their images, and causing them to ad-
vance towards the circle. Although Cellini de-
clares that he was trembling with fear, yet it is
quite evident that be was not entirely ignorant of
the machinery which was at work, for in order to
encourage the boy, who was almost dead with fear,
he assured them that the devils were under their
power, and that "what he saw was smoke and
shadow."
Mr. Roscoe, from whose Life of Cellini the pre-
ceding description is taken, draws a similar con-
elusion from the consolatory words addressed to
the boy, and states that they "confirm him in the
belief, that the whole of these appearances, like a
phantasmagoria, wer• merely the effects of a magic
lantern produced on volumes of smoke from va-
rious kinds of burning wood." In drawing this
conclusion, Mr. Roscoe bas not adverted to the
fact, that this exhibition took place about the mid~
die of the 16th century, while the magic lantern
was not invented by Kircher till towards the mid-
dle,of the 17th century,Cellini having died in 1570,
and Kircher having been born in 1601. There ia
uo doubt that the effects described could be p1'9•
o''""' ,,Coogle
l
76 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
duced by this instrument, but we are not entitled
to have recourse to any other means of explanation
but those which were known to exist at the time of
Cellini. If we suppose, however, that the necro-
mancer either had a regular magic lantern, or that
he had fitted up his concave mirror in a box con-
taining the figures of his devils, and that this box.
with its lights was carried home with the party,
we can easily account for the declaration of the
boy," that, as they were going home to their houses
in the quarter of Banchi, two of the demons wlunn
we had seen at the Amphitheatre, went on before
us leaping and skipping, sometimes running upon
the roofs of the houses, and sometimes upon the
ground."'
The introduction of the magic lantern as an
Qptical instrument supplied the magicians of the
17th century with one of their most valuable tools.
The use of the concave mirror, which does not
appear to have been even put up into the form of
an instrument, required a separate apartment, or
at least that degree of concealment which it was
difficult on ordinary occasions to command ; but
the magic lantern, containing in a small compass
its lamp, its lenses, and it. sliding figures, was
peculiarly fitted for the itinerant conjuror, who had
neither the means of providing a less portable and
more expensive apparatus, nor the power of trans-
porting a.
nd erecting it;
The magic lantern shown in the annexed figure
consists of a dark lantern, A B, containing a lamp
G, and a concave metallic mirror, M N, and it is so
constructed that when the lamp is lighted, not a
ray of light is able to escape from it. Into the side
o''""' ,,Coogle
MAGIC LANTERN. 77
of the lantern is· fitted a double tube, C D, the outer
half of which D, is capable of moving within the
other half. A large plano-convex lens C, is fixed
at the inner end of the double tube, and a small
convex lens D, at the outer end; and to the fixed
tube C E, there is joined a groove E F, in which
the sliders containing the painted · objects are
placed, and through which they can be moved.
Each slider contains a series of figures or pictures
Fig. 5.
p
painted on glass with highly transparent colours.
The direct light of the lamp G, and the light re·
fleeted from the mirror M N, falling upon the illu-
minating lena C, is concentrated by it so as to
throw a brilliant light upon the painting on the
slider, and as this painting is in the conjugate
focus of the convex lens D, a magnified image of
it will be formed on a white wall or white cloth
placed at P Q. If the lens D is brought nearer
toE F, or to the picture, the distinct image will be
more magnified, and will be formed at a greater
o''""' ,,Coogle
.
/
78 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
·distance from D, so that if there is any particular
distance of the image which is more convenient
than another, or any particular size of the object
which we wish, it can be obtained by varying the
distance of the lens D from E F.
When the image is received on an opaque
ground, as if commonly the case, the spectators
are placed in the same room with the lantern ; but
for the purposes of deception, it would be neces-
sary to place the lantern in another apartment like
the mirror in Fig. 4, and to throw the magnified
pictures on a large plate of ground glass, or a
transparent gauze screen, stretched across an
opening E F, Fig. 4, made in the partition which
separates the spectators from the exhibitor. The
images might, like those of the concave mirror,
be received upon wreaths of smoke. These images
are of course always inverted in reference to the
position of the painted objects; but in order to
render them really erect, we have only to invert
the sliders. The representations of the magic
lantern never fail to excite a high degree of in-
terest, even when exhibited with the ordinary
apparatus; but by using double sliders, and vary-
ing their movements, very striking effects may be
produced. A smith,. for example, is made to ham-
mer upon his anvil,-a figure is thrown into the
attitude of terror by the introduction of a spectral
apparition,-and a tempest at sea is imitated, by
having the sea on one slider, and the ships on
other sliders, to which an undulatory motion is
communicated.
The magic lantern is susceptible of great im-
provement in the painting of the figures, and in
o''""' ,,Coogle
MAGIC LANTERN.
tbe meehaniam and combination of the aliden. A
painted figure which appears well executed to the
1massisted eye, becomes a mere daub when mag-
nified 50 or 100 timea; and when we consider
·what kind of artists are employed in their execu-
tion, we need not wonder that this optical instru-
ment has degenerated into a mere toy for the
amusement of the young. Unless for public ex-
hibition, the expense of exceedingly minute and
spirited drawings could not be afforded ; but I have
ne doubt that if such drawings were executed, a
great part of the expense might be saved by en-
graving them on wood, and transferring their out-
line to the glass sliders.
A series of curious representations might be ef-
fected, by inserting glass plates containing suitable
figures in a trough having ~o of its sides parallel,
and made of plate glass. The trough must be in-
troduced atE F, so that the figure on the glass is
at the proper distance from the object lens D.
When the trough is filled with water, or with any
transparent fluid, the picture at P Q will be seen
with the same distinctness as if the figure had been
introduced by itself into the groove E F ; but if
any transparent fluid of a different density from
water is mixed with it, so as to combine with it
quickly or slowly, the appearance of the figure
displayed at P Q will undergo singular changes.
If spirits of wine, or any ardent spirit, are mixed
with the water, so as to produce throughout its
mass partial variations of density, the figure at P Q
will be as it were broken down into a thousand
parts, and will recover its continuity and distinct-
nel!8 when the two fluids have combined. If a fluid
o''""' ,,Coogle
80 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
of less density than water is laid gently upon the
water, so as to mix with it gradually, and produce
a regular diminution of density downwards ; or if
saline substances soluble iu water are laid at the
bottom .of the trough, the density will diminish up-
wards, and the figure will undergo the most curious
elongations and contractions. Analogous effects
may be produced by the application of heat to the
surface or sides of the trough, so that we may effect
at the same time both an increase and a diminution
in the density of the water, in consequence of
which the magnified images will undergo the most
remarkable transformations. It is not necessary
to place the glass plate which contains the figure
within the tr-ough. It may be placed in front of it,
.and by thus creating as it were an atmosphere,with
local variations of density we may exhibit the phe-
nomena of the mirage and of looming, in which
the inverted images of ships and other objects are
seen in the air, as described in another letter.
The power of the magic lantern has been greatly
Mtended by placing it on one .side of the trans-
parent screen of taffetas, which receives the images
while the spect~tors are placed on the other side,
and by making every part of the glass sliders
opaque, excepting the part which forn1s the figures.
Hence all the figures appear luminous on a black
ground, and produce a much greater effect with
the same degree of illumination. An exhibition
depending on these principles was brought out by
M. Philipstal in 1802, under the name of t11e
Phantasmagoria, and when it was shown in Lon-
don and Edinburgh it produced the most impres-
sive effects upon the spectators. The small theatre
o''""' ,,Coogle
MAGIC LANTKRN. 81
of exhibition was lighted only by one hanging
lamp, the flame of which was drawn up into an
opaque chimney or shade when the performance
began. In this " darkness visible" the curtain
rose and displayed a cave with skeletons aud other
terrific figures in relief upon its walls. The
flickering light was then drawn up beneath its
shroud, and the spectators in total darkness found
themselves in the middle of thunder and light-
ning. A thin transparent screen had, unknown to
the spectators, been let down after the disappear-
-ance of the light, and upon it the flashes of light-
ning and all the subsequent appearances were re-
presented. This screen being half-way between
the spectators and the cave which was first shown,
and being itself invisible, prevented the observers
from having any idea of the real distance of the
figures, and gave them the entire character ofaerial
pictures. The thunder and lightning were followed
by the figures of ghosts, skeletons, and known in-
dividuals, whose eyes and mouth were made to
move by the shifting of combined sliders. After
the first figure had been exhibited for a short time,
it began to grow less and less, as if removed to a
great distance, and at last vanished in a small
cloud of light. Out of this same cloud the germ
of another figure began to appear, and gradually
grew larger and larger, and approached the spec-
tators, till it attained its perfect development. In
this manner the head of Dr. Franklin was trans-
formed into a skull; figures which retired with the
freshness of life came back in the form of skele-
tons, and the retiring skeletons returned in the
drapery of flesh and blood.
p
o''""' ,,Coogle
8i LETTEltS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
The exhibition of these transmutations was fol-
lowed by spectres, skeletons, and terrific figures,
which, instead of receding and vanishing as be-
fore, suddenly advanced upon the spectators, be-
-coming larger as they approached them, and finally
vanished by appearing to sink into the ground.
The effect of this part of the exhibition was natu-
rally the most impressive. The spectators were
not only surprised but agitated, and many of them
were of opinion that they could have touched the
figures. M. Robertson, at Paris, introduced along
with his pictures the direct shadows of living ob-
jects, which imitated coarsely the appearance of
those objects in a dark night or in moonlight.
All these phenomena were produced by varying
the distance of the magic lantern A B., Fig. 5,
from the screen P Q, which remained fixed, and1
at the same time keeping the image upon the screen
distinct, by increasing the distance of the lens D
from the sliders in E F. When the lantern ap-:-
proached to P Q, the circle of light P Q, or the
section of the cone of rays PDQ, gradually di-
minished, and resembled a small bright cloud, when
D was close to the screen. At this time a new
figure was put in, so that when the lantern receded
from the screen, the old figure seemed to have
been transformed into the new one. Although the
figure was always at the same distance from the
spectators, yet, owing to its gradual diminution in
size, it necessarily appeared to be retiring to a dis-
tance. When the magic lantern was withdrawn
from PQ, and the lens D at the same time)>rought
nearer to E F, the image in P Q gradually in-
creased in size, and therefore seemed in the same
proportion to be approaching the spectators.
o''""' ,,Coogle
PRANTASIIfAQORIC BXRIBITION. 8l
Superior as this exhibition was to any represen-.
tation that had been previously made by the magic
lantern,it still laboured under several imperfections.
The figures were poorly drawn, and in other re-
spects not well executed, and no attempt whatever
was made to remove the optical incongruity of
the figures. becoming more luminous when they
retired from the observer, and more obscure when
they approached to him. The variation of the
distance of the lens D from the sliders in E F was
not exactly adapted to the tpotion of the lantern
to and from the screen, so that the outline of the
figures was not equally distinct during their varia-
tions of magnitude.
Dr. Thomas Young suggested the arrangement
shown in Fig. 6 for exhibiting the phantasmagoria.
Fig. 6.
The magic lantern is mounted on a small car H,
which runs on wheels W W. The direct light of
the lamp G, and that reflected from the mirror M,
is condensed by the illuminating lenses C C, upon
the transparent figuers in the opaque sliders at E,
p 2
I
o''""' ,,Coogle
84 LBTTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
and the image of these figures is formed at P Q, by
the object lens D. When the car H. is drawn back
on its wheels, the rod I K brings down the point
K, and, by means of the rod KL, pushes the lens D
nearer to the sliders in E F, and when the car
advances to P Q, the point K is raised, and the
rod K L draws out the lens D from the slider, so
that the image is always in the conjugate focus of
D, and therefore distinctly painted 011 the screen.
The rod K N must be equal in length to I K, a11d
the point I must be twice the focal length of the
lens D before the object, L being immediately under
the focus of the lens. In order to diminish the
brightness of the image when it grows small and
appears remote, Dr. Young contrived that the sup-
port of the lens D should suffer a screen S to fall
and intercept a part of the light. This method,
however, has many disadvantages, and we are satis-
fied, that the only way of producing a variation in
the light corresponding to the variation in the size
of the image, is to use a single illuminating lens
C, and to cause it to approach E F, and throw
less light upon the figures when D is removed from
E F, and to make C recede from E F when D
approaches to it. The lens C should therefore be
placed in a mean position, corresponding to a
mean distance of the screen, and to the ordinary
size of the figures, and should have the power of
being removed from the slider E F, when a greater
intensity of light is required for the images when
they are rendered gigantic, and of being brought
close to E F when .the images are made small.
The size of the lens C ought of course to be such
that the section of its cone of rays at E F is equal
o''""' ,,Coogle
MAGIC LANTERN. 85
to the size of the figure on the slider when C is at
its greatest distance from the slider.
The method recommended by Dr. Young for
pulling out and pushing in the object lens D, ac-
cording as the Janten1 approaches to or recedes
from the screen, is very ingenious and effective.
It is, however, clumsy in itself, and the connexion
of the levers with the screen, and their interposi-
tion between it and the lantern, must interfere with
the operations of the exhibitor. It is, besides,
suited only to short distances between the screen
and the lantern; for when that distance is consi-
derable, as it must sometimes require to be, the
levers K L, K I, K T, would bend by the least
strain, aud become unfitted for their purpose. For
these reasons the mechanism which adjusts the
lens D should be moved by the axle of the front
wheels, the tube which contains the lens should be
kept at its greatest distance from E F by a slender
spring, and should be pressed to its proper distance
by the action of a spiral cam suited to the optical
relation between the two conjugate focal distances
of the lens.
Superior as the representations of the phantas-
magoria are to those of the magic lantern, they
are still liable to the defect which we have men-
tioned, namely, the necessary imperfection of the
minute transparent figures when magnified. This
defect cannot be remedied by employing the most
skilful artists. Even Michael Angelo would have
failed in executing a figure an inch long with
transparent varnishes, when all its imperfections
were to be magnified. In order, therefore, to per-
fect the art of representing phantasms, the objects
o''""' ,,Coogle
16 LETTERS ON NATURAL ·)IAGIC.
must be living ones, ·and in place of chalky ill-
drawn figures, mimicking humanity by the most
absurd gesticulations, we shall have phantasms of
the mostperfect delineation, clothed in real drapery,
and displaying all the movements of life. The·ap-
paratus by which such objects may be used, may
be called the catadioptrical phantasmagoria, as
it operates both by re6exion and refraction.
The combination of mirrors and lenses which
seems best adapted for this purpose is shown in
Fig. '7, where A B is a living figure placed before
a large concave mirror M N, by means ofwhich a
diminished and inverted image ofit is formed at a b.
If P Q is the transparent screen upon which the
image is to be shown to the spectators on the right
hand of it, a large lens L L must be so placed
before the image a b, as to form a distinct and
erect picture of it at A' B' upon the screen. When
the image A' B' is required to be the exact size of
A B, the lens LL must magnify the small image
a b _as much as the mirror M N diminishes the
CATADIOPTRICAL PHANTASMAGORIA. 87
figure A B. The Jiving object A B, the mirror
M N, and the lens L L, must all be placed in a
moveable car for the purpose of producing · the
variations in the size of the phantasms, and the
transfonnations of one figure into ·another. The
contrivance for adjusting the lens L L, to give a
distinct picture at different distances of the screen,
will, of course, be required in the present appara-
tus. In order to give full effect to the phantasms>
the living objects at A B will require to be illu-
minated in the strongest manner, and should al-
ways be dressed either in white or in very lumi-
nous colours; and in order to give them relief, a
black cloth should be stretched at some distance
behind them. Many interesting effects might also
be produced by introducing at A B fine paintings
and busts.
It would lead us into too wide a field were we
to detail the immense variety of resources which
the science of optics furnishes for such exhibi-
tions. One of these, however, is too useful to be
passed without notice. If we interpose a prism
with a small refracting angle between the image .
a b, Fig. 7, and the lens L L, the part of .the
figure immediately opposite to the prism will be
as it were detached from the figure, and will be
' exhibited separately on the screen P Q. Let us
suppose that this part is the head of the figure.
It may be detached vertically, or lifted from the
body as if it were cut off, or it may be detached
downwards and placed on the breast as if the
figure were deformed. In detaching the head
vertically or laterally, an opaque screen must be
applied to prevent any part of the head from
o''""' ,,Coogle
8!1 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
being seen by rays which do not pass through the
prism; but this and other practical details will ·
soon occur to those who put the method to an
experimental trial. The application of the prism
is shown in Fig. 8, where a b is the inverted
image formed by a concave mirror, A B C a
prism with a small refracting angle B C A, placed
between·a b and the lens L L, s a small opaque
screen, and A B the figure with its head detached.
A hand may be made to grasp the hair of the
head, and the aspect of death may be given to it,
as if it had been newly cut off.. Such a repre-
sentation could be easily made, and the effect
upon the spectators would be quite overpowering.
The lifeless head might then be m·ade to recover
its vitality, and be safely replaced upon the
figure. If the head A of the living object A B,.
Fig. B.
Fig. 7, is covered with black cloth, the head of a
person or of an animal placed above A might be
set upon the shoulders of the figure A B by the
refraction of a prism.
When the figure a b, Fig. 8, is of very small
dimensions, as in the magic lantern, a small prism
o''""' ,,Coogle
KIRCHER's MYSTERIOUS HANDWRITING, 89
of glass would answer the purpose required of it ;
· but in public exhibitions where the image a b
must be of a considerable size, if formed by a
concave mirror, a very large prism would be ne-
cessary. This, however, though impracticable
with solid glass, may be easily obtained by means
of two large pieces of plate glass made into a
prismatic vessel and filled with water. Two of
the glasses of a carriage window would make a
prism capable of doubling the whole of the bust
of a living person placed as an object at A B,
Fig. '7, so that two perfectly similar phantasms
might be exhibited. In those cases where the
images before the lens L L are small, they may
be doubled and even tripled by interposing a well-
prepared plate of calcareous spar, that is, crossed
by a tl1in film. These images would possess the
singular character of being oppositely coloured
and of changing their distances and their colours
by slight variations in the positions of the plate"'·
In order to render the images which are "'rmed
by the glass and water prisms as perfect as pos-
sible, it would be easy to make them achromatic,
and the figures might be multiplied to any extent
by using severaf prisms, having their refracting
edges parallel, for the purpose of· giving a si-
milarity of position to all the images.
Among the instruments of natural magic which
were in use at the revival of science, there was
one invented by Kircher for exhibiting the mys-
terious handwriting on the wall of an apartment
from which the magician and his apparatus were
excluded. . The anne~ted figure represents this ap-
• See Edin. Encyclopdia. Art. OPTICS, Vol. xv. p. 61 L
o''""' ,,Coogle
I
-90 LETTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
paratus as given by Schottus. The apartment in
which the spectators are placed is between L L
and G H, and there is an open window in the side
next L L, G H being the inside of the wall op-
posite to the window. Upon the face of the
plane speculum E F are written the words to be
introduced, and when a lens L L is placed at such
a distance from the speculum, and of such a focal
length, that the letters and the place of their re-
presentation are in its conjugate foci, a distinct
image of the writing will be exhibited on the wall
at G H. The letters on the speculum are of
course inverted, as seen at E F, and when they
are illuminated by the sun's rays S, as shown in
the figure, a distinct image, as Schottus assures
us, may be formed at the distance of 500 feet.
In this experiment the speculum is by no means
necessary. If the letters are cut out of an opaque
card, and illuminated by the light of the sky in
the day, or by a lamp during night, their de-
lineation on the wall would be equally distinct.
In the day time it would be necessary to place the
letters at one end of a tube or oblong box, and
the lens at the other end. As this deception is
performed when the spectators are unprepared for
o''""' ,,Coogle
CYLll'DRICAL 'MIRRORS, 91
any such exhibition, the warning written in lu-
minous letters on the wall, or any word associated
with the fate of the individual observer, could not
fail to produce a singular effect upon his mind.
The words might be- magnified, diminished, mul-
tiplied, coloured and obliterated, in a cloud of
light, from which they might again re-appear by
the methods already described, as applicable to
the magic lantern.
The art of forming aerial representations was a
great desideratum among the opticia,ns of the 17th
century. Vitellio and others had made many un·
successful attempts to produce such images, and
the speculations of Lord Bacon on the subject are
too curious to be withheld from the reader.
"It would be well bolted out," says he, "whe-
ther great refractions may not be made upon re-
flexions, as well as upon dirt¥.:t beams. For
example, take an empty basin, put an angel or
what you will into it; then go so far from the
basin till you cannot see the angel, because it is
not in a right line; then fill the basin with water,
and you shall see it out of its place, because of
the refraction. To proceed, therefore~ put a
looking··glass into a basin of water. I suppose
you shall not see the image in a right line or at
equal angles, but wide. I know not whether this
experiment may not be extended, so as you might
see the image and not the glass, which, for beauty
and strangeness, were a fine proof, for then you
should see the image like a spirit in the air. Aa,
fur example, if there be a cistern or pool of water,
you shall place over against it the picture of the
devil, or what you will, so as that you do not see
o''""' ,,Coogle
92 LETTERS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
the water. Then put a looking-glass in the
water; now if you can see the devil's picture
aside, not seeing the water, it would look like the
devil indeed. They have an old tale in Oxford,
that Friar Bacon walked between two steeples,
which was thought to be done by glasses, when
he walked upon the ground."
Kircher also devoted himself to the production
of such images, and he has given in the annexed
figure his method of producing them. At the
bottom of a polished cylindrical vessel A B he
Fig. 10.
placed a figure C D, which we presume must have
been highly illuminated from below, and to the
spectators who looked into the vessel in an oblique
direction there was exhibited an image placed
vertically in the air as if it were ascending at the
mouth of the vessel. Kircher assures us that he
once exhibited in this manner a representation of
the Ascension of our Saviour, and that the images
were so perfect that the spectators could not be
o''""' ,,Coogle
CYLINDRICAL MIRRORS. 93
persuaded, till they had attempted to handle thf!m,
that they were not real substances. Although
Kircher does not mention it, yet it is manifest
that the original figure A B must have been a
deformed or anamorphous drawing, in order to
give a reflected image of just proportions. We
doubt, indeed, if the representation or the figure
was ever exhibited. It is entirely incompatible
with the laws of reflexion.
Among the ingenious and beautiful deceptions
of the 17th century, we must enumerate that of
the re-formation of distorted pictures by reflexion
11.
o''""' ,,Coogle
94 LE"I:TERS ON NATURAL IIAGIC.
from cylindrical and conical mirrors. In these
representations, the original image from which a
perfect picture is produced is often so completely
distorted, that the eye cannot trace in it the re-
semblance to any regular figure, a11d the greaiest
degree of wonder is of course excited, ·whether
the original image is concealed or exposed to
view. These distorted pictures may be drawn by
strict geometrical rules ; but I have shown in
Fig. 11 a simple and practical method of executing
them. Let M N be an accurate cylinder made
of tin-plate or of thick pasteboard. Out of the
farther side of it cut a 11mall aperture a b c d; and
out of the nearer side cut a larger one A B C D,
the size of the picture to be distorted. Having
perforated the outline of the picture with sli_lall
holes, place it on the opening A B C D so that
its surface may be cylindrical. Let a candle or a
bright luminous object, the smaller the better, be
placed at S, as far behind the picture A B C D as
the eye is afterwards to be placed before it, and
the light passing through the small holes will re-
present on a horizontal plane a distorted image
of the picture A' B' C' D', which, when sketched
in outline with a pencil, and shaded or coloured,
will be ready for use. If we now substitute a
polished cylindrical mirror of the same size in
place of M N, then the distorted picture, when laid
horizontally at A' B' C' D', will be restored to its
original state when seen by reflcxion at A B CD
in the polished mirror. It would be an improve-
ment on tftis .method to place at A B C D a thin
and flexible Jl'ate of transparent mica, having
drawn upon it with a sharp point or painted upon .
'''"'"'',Coogle
XIRRORS OF VARIABLE CURVATU.RE, ~5
it the figure re1uired. The projected image of
this. figure at A B' C' D' may then be accurately
cop1ed.
The effect of a cylindrical mirror is shown in
Fig. 12, which is copied from an old one which
we have seen in use
- F•g. 12.
The method above described is equally applica-
ble to concave cvlindrical mirrors, and to those of
a conical form, and it may also be applied to mir-
rors of variable curvature, which produce different
kinds of distortions from different parts of their
surfaces.
By employing a mirror whose surface haa a
variable curvature like ABC, Fig. 13, we obtain
an instrument for producing an endless.variety of
caricatures, all of which are characterized by their
resemblance to the original. If a figure M N is
placed before such a miiTOr, it will of course ap-
pear distorted and caricatured, but even if the
figure takes different distances and positions, the
variations which the image undergoes are neither
'''"'"'',Coogle
96 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
sufficiently numerous nor remarkable to afford
much amusement. But if the figure M N is very
near the mirror, so that new distortions are pro-
duced by the different distances of its different
parts. from the mirror, the most singular cari-
catures may be exhibited. If the figure, for
example, bends forward his head and the upper
part of his body, they will swell in size, leaving
his lower extremities short and slender. If it
draws back the upper part of the ·body and ad-
vances the limbs, the opposite effect will take
place. In like manner different sides of the head,
the right or the left side of it, the brow or the
chin, max be swelled and contracted at pleasure.
By stretcliing out the arms before the body they
become like those of an orang outang, and by
drawing them back they dwindle into half their
regular size. All these effects, which depend
chiefly on the agility and skill of the performer,
may be greatly increased by suitable distortions
o''""' ,,Coogle
MIRRORS OF VARIABLE CURVATURE, 97
in his own features and figure. The family like-
ness, which is of course never lost in all the
variety of figures which are thus produced, adds .
greatly to the interest of the exhibition; and we
have seen individuals so annoyed at recognizing
their own likeness in the hideous forms of hu-
manitywhich were thus delineated, that they could
not be brought to contemplate them a second time,
If the figure is inanimate, like the small cast of a
statue, the effect is very curious, as the swelling
and contracting of the parts and the sudden
change of expression give a sort of appearance of
vitality to the image. The inflexibility of such a
figure, however, is unfavourable to its transforma-
tion into caricatures.
Interesting aa these metamorphoses are, they
lose in the simplicity of the experiment much of
the wonder which they could not fail to excite if
exhibited on a great scale, where the performer is
invisible, and where it is practicable to give an
ai:irial representation of the caricatured figures.
This may be done by means of the apparatus
shown in Fig. 7 "',where we may suppose AB to
be the reduced image seen in the reflecting surface
ABC, Fig. 13 t. By bringing this image nearer
the mirror MM, Fig. 7, a magnified and inverted
image of it may be formed at a b, of such a mag-
nitude as to give the last image in P Q the same
size as life. Owing to the loss of light by the
two reflexions, a very powerful illumination would
be requisite for the original figure. If such an
exhibition were well got up, the effect of it would
he very striking.
• Page 86. t Page 96.
G
o''""' ,,Coogle
88 LKTTIUUI ON NA.TUR.L MAGIC.
LETTER V.
Mi~e~ll•rt«~lll optiMI illu•iort-Cortvtrnort• of cmrttol irtto
ittlaH'I'H, or tle~alion• into Jeprwlion•, attd the r~•t­
Ezplattation of tlti1 tlt1u of tltetption•-Singular ~tell
: •/illllrnittlllion with lig/IJ of one 1imple colour-lAmp•for
,.rotluci•g /i,.,.ogm«~u• ~/low ligiii-Metltotl• of ilfcrttll•
ilcg lilt ~eel of tlti1 tzltibilion-Metltod of rrading the
ilf•criplion of coilfl itt lilt tlarlt-Arl of dec!IT'htring tlte
ifaced in1cription ofcoin1-EzpltMtt1tiott oftlte~e 1ittgul•
'.l'ect-Appumt metiott ef the ~· in portrait•-Re-
marltab/e eumplt~ oftlti-Apparml motion of the fea·
turtl of a portrait, eoltm lk eye• are rtWdt to motJe-
Rmtttrltable ezperimettt of breathittg liglal 1111d darltneu.
IN the preceding letter I have given an account of
the most important instruments of Natural Magic
which depend on optical principles; but there
still remain several miscellaneous phenomena on
which the stamp of the marvellous is deeply im-=.
pressed, and the study of which ia pregnant with
instruction and amusement.
One of the most curious of these is that false
perception in vision-by which we conceive depres-
sions to be elevations, and elevations depresaions,
or by which intaglios are converted into cameos,
and cameos into intaglios, This curious fact seems
to have been first observed at one of the early meet-
ings of the Royal Society of London, when one of
o''""' ,,Coogle
CONVER.!IlON OF 'CAMEOS INTO lNTAGLIO!I. 99
the members, in looking at a guinea through a
compound microscope of new construction, was
surprised to see the head upon the coin depressed,
while other members could only see it embossed
u it really was.
While using telescopes and compound micro-
scropes, Dr. Gmelin of Wurtemburg observed the
aame fact. The protuberant parts of objects ap-
peared to him depressed, and the depressed parts
protuberant: but what perplexed him extremely,
this illusion took place at some times and not at.
others, in some experiments and not in others, and
appeared to some eyes and not to others.
Mter making a great number of experiments~
Dr. Gmelin is said to have constantly observed the
following effects : Whenever he viewed any object
rising upon a plane of any colour whatever, pro-
vided it was neither white nor shining, and pro-
vided the eye and the optical tube were directly
opposite to it, the elevated parts appeared de-
pressed, and the depressed parts elevated. This
happened when he was viewing a seal, and as often
as he held the tube of the telescope perpendicu-
larly, and applied it in such a manner that its
whole surface almost covered the last glass of the
tube. The same effect was produced when a com-
pound · microscope was used. When the object
hung perpendicularly, from a plane, and the tube
was supported horizontally and directly opposite to
it, the illusion also took place, and the appearance
was not altered when the object hung obliquely
and e~en horizontally. Dr. Gmelin is said to have
at last discovered a method of preventing this illu-
sion, which was by looking, not towards the centre
G2
o''""' ,,Coogle
)00 LETTERS ON NATURAl. M .o\G:C.
(lf the convexity, but at first to the edges of it only,
and then gradually taking in the whole. " But
why these things should 110 happen, he did not
pretend to determine."
The best method of observing this deception, is
to view the engraved seal of a watch with the eye-
piece of an achromatic telescope, or with a com-
pound microscope, or any combination of lenses,
which inverts the objects that are viewed through
it"'. The depression in the seal will immediately
appear an elevation, like the wax impression which
is taken from it; and though we know it to be hol-
low, and feel its concavity with the point of our
finger, the illusion is so strong that it co~tin~es to
appear a protuberance. The cause of th1s wtll be
understood from Fig. 14, where S is the window
of the apartment, or the light which illuminates
Fig. 14.
the lwllow seal L R, whose shaded side is of course
on the same side L with the light. If we now in-
vert the seal, with one or more lenses, so that it
may look in the opposite direction, it will appear to
the eye as in Fig. 15, with the shaded side L far-
thest fron the window. But as we know that the
• A single coD\·ex lens will answer the purpose, provided
we hold the eye six or eight inches behind the image of the
~-:' -, _ 1eal formed in its collfugate focus,
~
.,_
~~ o''""' ,,Coogle
CO:'IVERSION OF CAMEOS I~TO INTAGLIOS. 101
window is still-Qn our left hand, and that the light
falls in the direction R L, and as every body with
its shaded side farthest from the light must ncces-
Fig. 15.
·I ~I)·
sarily be convex or protuberant, we immediately
believe that the hollow seal is now a cameo or bas-
relief. The proof which the eye thus receives of
the seal being raised, overcomes the evidence of its
being hollow derived from our actual knowledge,
and from the sense of touch. In this experiment
the deception takes place from our knowing the
real direction of the light which falls upon the
seal; for if the place of the window, with respect
to the seal, had been inverted as well as the seal
itself, the illusion coultl not have taken place.
In order to explain this better, let us suppose the
seal L R, Fig. 14, to be illuminated with a candleS,
the place of which we cau change at pleasure. If
we invert L R it will rise into a cameo, as in Fig.
15; and if we then place another candle D on the
other side of it, as in Fig. 16, the hollow seal will
be equally illuminated on all sides, and it will sink
down into a cavity or intaglio. Ifthe two candles
do not illuminate the seal equally, or if any acci-
dt>ntal circumstance produces a belief that the light
is wholly or principally on one side, the mind will
entertain a corresponding opinion respecting the
o''""' ,,Coogle
102 LETTBRS ON NATURAL M.\GIC.
state of the seal, regarding it as a hollow if it be-
lieves the light to come wholly or principally from
F.g. 16.
the right hand, and as a cameo if it believes the
light to come from the left hand.
If we use a small telescope to invert the seal,
and if we cover up all the candle but the ftame, and
arrange the experiment so that the candle may be
inverted along with the image, the seal will still
retain its concavitv, because the shadow is still on
the same side with the illuminating body.
lf we make the same experiments with the
raised impression of the seal taken upon wax, we
shall observe the very eame phenomena, the seal
being depressed when it alone is inverted, and re-:
taining its convexity when the light is inverted
along with it.
The illusion, therefore, under our consideration
is the result of an operation of our own minds,
whereby we judge of the forms of bodies by the
knowledge we have acquired of light and shadow.
Hence the illusion depends on the accuracy and
extent of our knowledge on this subject; and
while some persons are under its influence, othens
are entirely insensible to it. When the seal or
hollow cavity is not polished, but ground, and the
surface round it of uniform colour and smoothneu,
o''""' ,,Coogle
CONVERSION OP CAK&OI l!'fTO INTAGLIOY. I03
almost every person, whether young or old, learned
or ignorant, will be subject to the illusion; be-
cause the youngest and the most careless obaervers
cannot but know that the shadow of a hollow is
always on the side next the light, and the shadow
of a protuberance on the side opposite to the light;
but if the object is the rai11ed impression of a seal
upon wax, I have found that, when inverted, it still
aeemed raised to the three youngest of six per-
sons, while the three eldest were subject to the
deception.
This illusion may be di111ipated by a process of
reasoning arising from the introduction of a new
circumstance in the experiment. Thus, let R L,
Fig, 18, be the inverted seal, which consequently
Fig. 17.
·i ~<l·
appears raised, and let an opaque and unpolished
pin A be placed on one side of the seal. Its sha-
dow will be of course opposite the candle as at B.
In this case the seal, which had become a cameo
by its inversion, will now sink down into a cavity
by the introduction of the pin and its shadow; for
aa the pin and its shadow are inverted, as shown
in Fig. 18, while the candle retains ita place, the
shadow Of the pin falling in the direction A B is a
stronger proof to the eye that the light is coming
from the right hand, than the actual knowledge of
104 LE'ITBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
Fig. 18.
Ra B~L~A
the candle being on the left hand, and therefore
the cameo necessarily sinks into a cavity, or the
shadow is now on the same side as the light. This
experiment will explain to us why on some occa-
sions an acute observer will elude the deception,
while every other person is subject to it. Let us
suppose that a -particle of dust, or a little bit of
wax, capable of giving a shadow, is adhering to
the surface of the seal, an ordinary observei' will
take no notice of this, or if he does, he will pro-
bably not make it a subject of consideration, and
will therefore see the head on the seal raised into
a cameo ; but the attentive observer noticing the
little protuberance, and observing that its shadow
lies to the left of it, will instantly infer that the
light comes in that direction, and will still see the
seal hollow.
I have already mentioned that in some cases even
the sense of touch does not correct the erroneous
perception. ·we of course feel that the part of
the hollow on which the finger is placed is actually
hollow ; but if \\re look at the other part of the
hollow it will still appear raised.
By using two candles yielding different degrees
of light, and thus giving an uncertainty to the di-
rection of the light, we may weaken the illus~on in
./
I •
o''""' ,,Coogle
. CONVERSION OF CAMEOS INTO INTAGLIOS. ] 0$
any degree we choose, so as to overpower it by
touch, or by a process of reasoning.
I have had occasion to observe a series of ana-
logous phenomena arising from the same cause,
but produced without any instrument for inverting
the object. If AB, for example, is a plate of mo-
ther-of-pearl, and L R a circular or any other
cavity (Fig. 19) ground or turned in it, then if this
cavity is illuminated by a candle or a window at S,
Fig. 19.
in place of there being a shadow of the margin L
of the hollow next the light, as there would have
been had the body been opaque, a quantity ofbright
refracted light will appear where there would have
been a shadow, and the rest of the cavity will be
comparatively obscure, as if it were in shade. The -
necessary consequence of this is, that the cavity
will appear as an elevation when seen only by the
naked eye, as it is only an elevated surface tha.t
could have its most luminous side at L.
Similar illusions take place in certain pieces of
polished wood, calcedony, and mother-of-pearl,
where the surface is perfectly smooth. This arises
from there being at that place a knot or growth,
or nodule, of different transparency from the sur·
rounding mass, and the cause of it will be under-
stood from Fig. 20. Let m o be the surface of a
o''""' ,,Coogle
106 LftTIUts ON NA'l'IJRAL IIAOJC.
Fig.20.
mahogany table, A m o B a section of the table,
and m n o a section of a knot more transparent
than·the rest of the mass. Owing to the transpa-
rency of the thin edge at o, opposite to the candle
S, the side o is illuminat<'d, while the rest of the
knot is comparatively dark, 10 that on the princi-
ples already explained the apot m n o appears to
be a hollow in the table. Prom this cause arises
the appearance of dimples in certain phttes of cal-
cedony, called hammered calcedony, owing to .its
having the look of being dimpled.with a hammer.
The aurface on which these cavities are seen is a
section of amall spherical aggregations of siliceous
matter, which exhibit the same phenomena as the
cavitiea in wood. Mother-of-pearl presents the
very aame phenomena, and it is indeed so common
in thia substance, that it is nearly impossible to find
a mother-of-pearl button or counter which seems
to have its aurface fiat, although they are perfectly ·
10 when examined by the touch. Owing to the
diiferent refraction of the incident light by the dif-
ferent growtha of the shell cut in different direc-
tions by the artificial surface, like the annual
growth of wood in a dressed plank, the surface has
neceaaarily an unequal and undulating appearance.
Among the wonden of acience there are per-
o''""' ,,Coogle
HOMOOJ:NK01JS YELLOW LIGHT. 107
haps none more surprising than the effects pro-
duced upon coloured objects by illuminating them
with homogeneous light, or light of one colour.
The light which emanates from the sun, and by
which all the objects of the material world are ex-
hibited to us, is composed of three different colours,
red, yellotv, and blue, by the mixture of which in
different proportions all the various hues of nature
may be produced. These three colours, when
mixed in the proportion in which they occur in
the sun's rays, compose a purely white light; but
if any body on which this white light falls shall
absorb, or stop, or detain within its substance any
part of any one or more of these simple colours,
it will appear to the eye of that.colour which arises
from the mixture of all the rays which it does not
absorb, or of that colour which white light would
have if deprived of the colours which are absorbed.
Scarlet cloth, fo:~: example, absorbs most of the
blue rays and many of the yellow, and hence ap-
pears red. Yellow cloth absorbs most of the blue
and many of the red rays, and therefore appears
yellow; and blue cloth absorbs most of the yellow
and red rays. If we were to illuminate the scarlet
cloth with pure and unmixed yellow light, it would
appear yellow, because the scarlet cloth does not
absorb all the yellow rays, but reflects some of
them; and if we illuminate blue cloth with yellow
light, it will appear nearly black, because it absorbs
all the yellow light, and reflects almost none of it.
But whatever be the nature and colour ofthe bodies
on which the yellow light falls, the light which it
reflects must be yellow, for no otherlight falls upon
them,-and those which are not capable of reft.ecting
o''""- ,,Coogle
108 LETTERS ON NATURAL M.~GIC .
yellow light must appear absolutely black, however
brilliant be the!r colour in the light of day.
As the methods now discovered of producing
yellow light in abundance were not known to the
ancient conjurors, nor.even to those of later times,
they have never availed themselves of this valuable
resource. It has been long known that salt thrown
Fi9• 21.
into the wick of a flame produces yellow light, but
this light is mixed with blue and green rays, and
is, besides, so small in quantity, that it illuminates
objects only that are in the immediate vicinity of
the flame. A method which I have found capable
ef producing it in abundance is shown in Fig. 21,
where A B is a lamp, containing at A a large
quantity of alcohol and water, or ardent spirits,
o''""' ,,Coogle
HOMOGENEOUS YELLOW LIGHT. .09
whicl1 gradually descends into a platina or metallic
cup D. This cup is strongly heated by a spirit-
lamp J,, inclosed in a dark lantern, and when tl1e
diluted alcohol in D is inflamed, it will burn with
a fierce and powerful yellow flame. If the flame
should not be perfectly yellow, owing to an excess
of alcohol, a }Jroportion of salt thrown into the cup
will answer the same purpose as a further dilution
of the alcohol•.
A mouocluomatic lamp for producing yellow
light may be constructed most effectually, by em-
ploying a portable gas lamp, containing com-
pressed oil gas. If we allow the gas to escape in
a copious stream, and set it on fire, it will form an
explosive mixture with the atmospheric air, and
will no longer burn with a white flame, but will
emit a bluish and reddish light. The force of the
issuing gas, or any accidental current of air, is
capable of blowing out this flame, so that it is
necessary to have a contrivance for sustaining it.
The method which I used for this purpose is
shown in Fig. 22. A small gas tube abc, arising
from the main burner M N of the gas lamp P Q,
terminates above the burner, and has a short tube
d e, moveable up and down within it, so as to be
gas-tight. This tube d e, closed at e, communi-
cates with. the hollow ring f g, in the inside of
which four apertures are perforated in such a man-
ner as to throw their jets of gas to the apex of a
cone, of which f g is the base. When we cause
the gas to flow from the burner M, by opening the
main cock A, it will rush into the tube a bc d, and
issue in small flames at the four holes in the ring
• See Edinbur9ll Tt•amactionl, vol. ix.1 P• 435.
o''""' ,,Coogle
JlO L~TTI!:RS ON NATURAL VAGIC.
Fig. 22.
f g. The size of these flames is regulated by the
eock b. The inflammation, therefore, of the ignited
ga• will be sustained by these four subsidiary
flames through which it passes, independent of any
agitation of the air, or of the force with which it
issues from the burner. On a projecting arm e h,
carrying a ring h, I fixed a \>road collar, made of
coarse cotton wick, which bad been previously
1oaked in a saturated solution of common salt.
When the gas was allowed to escape at M, with
euch force as to produce a long and broad column
of an explosive mixture of gas and atmospheric
air, the bluish flame occasioned by the explosion
panes through the salted collar, and is converted
by it into a mass of homogeneous ·yellow light.
This collar will last a long time without any fresh
supply of salt, so that the gas lamp will yield a
permanent monochro~atic yellow 6ame, which
o''""' ,,Coogle
HOlllOGBNBOUI YELLOW LlGBl'. Ill
will last as long as there is gaa in the reservoir.
In place of a collar of cotton wick, a hollow cy-
linder of sponge, with numerous projecting tufts,
may be used, or a collar may be similarly con-
structed with asbestos cloth, and, if thought ne-
cessary, it might be supplied with a saline solution
from a capillary fountain.
Having thus obtained the means of illuminating
any apartment with yellow light, let the exhibition
be made in a room with furniture of various bright
colours, with oil or water-coloured paintings on
the wall. The party which is to witness the ex-
periment should be dressed in a diversity of the
gayest colours ; and the brightest-coloured flowers
and highly-coloured drawings should be placed on
the tables. The room being at first lighted with
ordinary lights, the bright and gay colours of every
thing that it contains will be finely displayed. If
the white lights are now suddenly extinguished,
and the yellow lamps lighted, the most appalling
metamorphosis will be exhibited. The astonished
individuals will no longer be able to recognize each
other. All the furniture in the room, and all the
objects which it contains, will exhibit only one
colour. The flowers will lose their hues. The
paintings and drawings will appear as if they were
executed in China ink, and the gayest dresses, the
brightest scarlets, the purest lilacs, the richest
blues, and the most vivid greens will all be con-
verted into one monotonous yellow. The com-
plexions of the parties, too, will suffer a corre-
sponding change~ One pallid, death-like yellow,
- like the unnatural hue
Which autumn pablta upon the perished leaf,
o''""' ,,Coogle
112 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
will envelope the young and the c~d, and the sallow
faces will alone escaJ>e from the ll>~tamorphosis.
Each individual derives merriment from the cada-
verous appearance of his neighbour, without being
sensible that he is himself one of the ghostly as-
semblage.
If, in the midst of the astonishment which is
thus created, the white lights are restored at one
end of the room, while the yellow lights are· taken
to the other end, one side of the dress of every
person, namely, t,hat next the white light, will be
restored to its original colours, while the other
side will retain its yellow hue. One cheek will
appear in a state of health and colour, while the
ot~r retains the paleness of death ; and, as the
individuals change their position, they will exhibit
the most extraordinarv transformations of colour.
If, when all the lights are yellow, beams ofwhite
light are transmitted through a number of holes,
like those in a sieve, each luminous spot will
restore the colour of the dress or furniture upon
which it falls, and the nankeen family will appear
all mottled over with every variety of tint. If a
magic lantern is employed to throw upon the walls
or upon the dresses of the company luminous
figures of flowers or animals, the dresses will be
painted with these figures in the real colour of
the dress itself. Those alone who appeared in
yellow, and with yellow complexions, will, to a
great degree, escape all these singular changes.
If red and blue light could be produced with the
same facility and in the same abundance as yellow
light, the illumination of the apartm~nt with these
lights in succession would add to the variety and
'''"'"'',Coogle
RE.\DING COI:"'S l!'f THE DARK, 113
wonder of the exhibition. The red light might
perhaps be procured in sufficient quantity from the
nitrate and other salts of strontian ; hut it would
be difficult to obtain a blue flame of ·sufficient in-
. tensity for the suitable illumination of a large room.
Brilliant white lights, however, might be used,
having for screens glass troughs containing a mass
one or two inches thick of a solution of the am-
moniacal carbonate of copper. This solution ab-
sorbs all the rays of the spectrum but the blue,
and the intensity of the blue light thus produced
would increase in the same proportion as the white
light employed.
Among the numerous experiments with which
science astonishes and sometimes even strikes ter-
ror into the ignorant, there is none more calculated
to produce this effect than that of displaying to the
eye in absolute darkness the legend or inscription
. upon a coin. To do this, take a silver coin, (I
have always used an old one,) and after polishing
the surface as much as possible, make the parts of
it which are raised rough by the action of an acid,
the parts not raised, or those which are to be ren-
dered darkest, retaining their polish. If the coin
thus prepared is placed upon a mass of red hot iron,
and removed into a dark room, the inscription upon
it will become less luminous than the rest, so that
it may be distinctly read by the spectator. The
mass of red hot iron should be concealed from the
observer's eye, both for the purpose of rendering
the eye fitter for observing the effect, and of re-
moving all doubt that the inscription is really read
in the dark, that is, without receiving any light,
direct or reflected, from any other body. If, in place
B
o''""' ,,Coogle
] ]4 LKTT.KRS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
of polishing tl1e depressed parts, and roughening its
raised parts, we make the raised parts polished, and
roughen thedepressed parts, the inscriptionwill now
be less luminous than the depressed parts, and we
shall still be able to read it, from its being as it .
were written in black letters on a white ground.
The first time I made this experiment,v.ithout being
aware of what would be the result, I used a French
shilling of Louis XV., and I was not a little sur-
prised to observe upon its surface, in black letters,
the inscription BENEDICTUM SIT NOMEN DEI.
The most surprising form of this experiment is
when we use a coin from which the inscription has
been either wholly obliterated, or obliterated in
such a degree as to be illegible. When such a
· coin is laid upon the red hot iron, the letters and
figures become oxidated, and the film of oxide ra-
diating more powerfully than the rest of the coin,
the illegible inscription may be now distinctly
read to the great surprise of the observer, who had
examined the blank surface of the coin previous to
its being placed upon the hot iron. The different
appearances of the same coin, according as the
raised parts are polished or roughened, are shown
in Fig. 23 and 24.
In order to explain the cause of these remark-
able effects, we must notice a method which has
been long known, though never explained, of decy-
phering the inscriptions on worn-out coins. This is
done by merely placing the coin upon a hot iron;
an oxidation takes place over the whole surface of
the coin, the film of oxide changing its tint with
the intensity or continuance of the heat. The
parts, however, where the letters of the inscriptioq.
o''""' ,,Coogle
READING COIN3 IN THE DARK. 115
had existed, oxidate at a different rate from the sur..
rounding parts, so that these letters exhibit their
shape, and become legible in consequence of the
film of oxide which covers them having a different
Fig. 23. Fig. 24.
thickness, and therefore reflecting a different tint
from that of the adjacent parts. The tints thus
developed sometimes pass through many orders of
brilliant colours, particularly pink and green, and
settle in a bronze, and sometimes a black tint,
resting upon the inscription alone. In some cases
the tint left on the trace of the letters is so very
faint that it can just be seen, and may be entirely
removed by a slight rub of the finger.
When the experiment is o:len repeated with the
same coin, and the oxidations successively removed
after each experiment, the film of oxide conti-
nues to diminish, and at last ceases to make its
appearance. It recovers the property, however,
in the course of time. When the coin is put upon
the hot iron, and consequently when the oxidation
is the greatest, a considerable smoke arises from
the coin, and this diminishes like the film of oxide
by frequent repetition. A coin which had ceased
H2
o''""' ,,Coogle
116 LETTERS ON NATURAL YAGJC.
to emit this smoke, smoked slightly after having
been exposed twelve hours to the air. I have
found, from numerous trials, that it is always the
raised parts of the coin, and in modern coins the
elevated ledge round the inscription, that become
first oxidated. In an English shilling of 1816,
this ledge exhibited a brilliant yellow tint before it
appeared on any other part of the coin.
If we use an uniform and homogeneous disc of
silver that has never been hammered or com-
pressed, its surface will oxidate equally, provided
all its parts are equally heated. In the process of
converting this disc into a coin, the sunk parts have
obviously been most compressed by the prominent
parts of the die, and the.e/m;ated parts least com-
pressed, the metal being in the latter left as it
were in its naturul state. The raised letters and
figures on a coin have therefore less density than
the other parts, and these parts oxidate sooner or
at a lower temperature. When the letters of the
legend are worn off by friction, the parts imme-
diately below them have also less density than the
surrounding metal, and the site as it were of the
letters therefore receives from heat a degree of oxi-:
dation, and a colour different from that of the sur-
rounding surface. Hence we obtain an explanation
of the revival of the invisible letters by oxidation.
The same influence of difference of density may
be observed in the beautiful oxidations which are
produced on the surface of 'highly-polished steel,
heated in contact with air, at temperatures between
430° and 630° of Fahrenheit•. When the steel
l1as hard portions called pins by the workmen, the
• See Edinburgh Enc!Jclop. Art. SrsBL, vol. :uiii. p. 387.
o''""' ,,Coogle
READING COINS 01 THE DARK. ll7
uniform tint of the film of oxide stops near these
hard portions, which always exhibit colours dif-
ferent from those of the rest of the mass. These
parts, on account of their increased density, absorb
the oxygen of atmospheric air less copiously than
the surrounding portions. Hence we see the cause
why steel expanded by heat absorbs oxygen, which,
when united with the metal, forms the coloured
superficial film. As the heat increases, a greater
quantity of oxygen is absorbed, and the film in-
creases in thickness.
These observations enable us to explain the
legibility of inscriptions in the dark, whether the
coin is in a perfect state, or the letters of it worn
off. All black or roug!t surfaces radiate light
more copiously than polished or smooth surfaceP,
and hence the inscription is luminous when it is
rough, and obscure when it is polished, and the
letters covered with black oxide are more luminous
than the adjacent parts, on account of the superior
radiation of light by the black oxide which coveT&
them.
By the means now described, invisible writing
might be conveyed by impressing it upon a me-
tallic surface, and afterwards erasing it by grinding
and polishing that surface perfectly smooth. When
exposed to a proper degree of heat, the secret
would display itself written in oxidated letters.
Many amusing experiments might be made upon
the same principle.
A series of curious and sometimes alarming de-
ceptions, arises from the representation of objects
in perspective upon a plane surface. One of the
most interesting of these depends on the princi-
o''""' ,,Coogle
118 LL'lTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
pies which regulate the apparent direction of the
eyes in a portrait. Dr. Wollaston has thought
this subj(:Ct of sufficimt importance to be treated
at some length in the Philosophical Transactions.
When we look at any person we direct to them
both our face and our eyes, and in this position
the circular iris will be in the middle of the white
of the eye-ball, or, what is the same thing, there
will be the same quantity of white on each side of
the iris. Jf the eyes are now moved to either
side, while the head remains fixed, we shall readily
judge of the change of their direction by the
greater or less quantity of white on each side of
the iris. This test, however, accurate as it is, en-
ables us only to estimate the extent to which the
eves deviate in direction from the direction of the
f&ce to which they belong. But their direction in
reference to the person who views them is entirely
a !lifferent matter; and Dr. Wollaston is of opi-
nion, that we are not guided by the eyes alone,
but are unconsciously aided l>y the concurrent
position of the entire face.
If a skilful painter draws a pair of eyes with
great correctness directed to the spectator, and
deviating from the general position of the face as
much as is usual in good portraits, it is"very diffi-
cult to determine their direction, and they will ap-
pear to have different directions to different per-
sons. But what is very curious, Dr. Wollaston
has shown that the same pair of eyes may be made
to direct themselves either to or from the spectator
by the addition of other features in which the
position of the face is changed. Thus, in Fig. 25,
the pair of eyes are looking intently at the spec-
o''""' ,,Coogle
•MOTION OF TRB EYE:9 IN POJlTR .\lTS. 119
tator, and the face has a corresponding d;rection ;
but when we cover up the face in Fig. 25 with the
face in Fig. 26, which looks to the right, the eyes
Ftg. 25.
change their direction, and look to the right also.
In like manner, eyes drawn originally to look a
little to the right or the left of the S]Jectator may
be made to look directly at him by adding suitable
features.
The nose is obviously the principal feature which
pl"'linres this change of direction, as it is more
subject to change of perspective than any of the
othel' features; but Dr. Wollaston has shown by
a very aecurate experiment, that even a small por-
tion of the nose introduced with the features will
carry the e~ along with it. He obtained four
exact copies of the same pair of eyes looking at
the .apectator, by transferring them upon copper
from a steel plate, a,nd having added to each of
two pair of them a nose in one case directed to the
o''""' ,,Coogle
•
J20 LETTERS ON NATUR.-\L MAGIC,
right, Bnd in the other to the left, and to each of
the other two pair a very small portion of the
upper part of the nose, all the four pair of
eyes lost their front direction, and looked to the
right or to the left, according to' the direction of
the nose, or of the portion of it which was added.
But the effect thus produced is not limited, as
Dr. Wollaston remarks, to the mere change in the
direction of the eyes, " for a total diffcren~e of
character may be given to the same eyes by a due
representation of the other features. A lost look
of devout abstraction in an uplifted countenance
may be exchanged for an appearance of iJ)quisi-
tive archness in the leer of a younger face turned
downwards and obliquely towards the opposite
side," as in Fig. 27, 28. This, however, is per-
haps not an exact expression of the fact. The
new character which is said to be given to the
eyes is given only to the eyes in combination with
the new features, or, what is probably more cor-
rect, the inquisitive archness is in the other fea-
tures, and the eye does not belie it.
Dr. Woilaston has not noticed the converse of
these illusions, in which a change of direction is
given to fixed features by a change in the direc-
tion of the eyes. This effect is finely seen in some
magic lantern sliders, where a pair of eyes is made
to move in the head of a figure wjlich invariably
follows the motion of the eyeballs.
Having thus determined the influence which
the general perspective of the face has upon the
apparent direction of the eyes in a portrait, Dr.
Wollaston applies it to the eJQ>lanation of the well-
known fact, that when the eyes of a portrait look
o''""' ,,Coogle
MOTION OF THE FBATURBS OF A PORTRAIT. Ul
Fig. 27.
at a spectator in front of it they will follow him,
and appear to look at him in every other direction.
This curious fact, which has received less con-
sideration than it merits, has been often skilfully
employed by the novelist, in alarming the fears or
exciting the courage of his hero. On returning
to the hall of his ancestors, his attention is power-
fully fixed on the grim portraits which surround
him. The parts which they have respectively per-
formed in the family history rise to his mind: his
own actions, wjlether good or evil, are called up
in contrast, anil as the preserver or the destroyer
of his line, he stands, as it were, in judgment
before them. His imagination, thus .excited by
conflicting feelings, transfers a sort of vitality to
the canvas, and if the personages do not " start
from their frames," they will at least bend upon
o''""' ,,Coogle
}22 LETTERS ON NATURAL 'MAGIC.
him their frowns or their approbation. It is in
vain that he tries to evade their scrutiny. Where-
ever he goes their eyes eagerly pursue him; they
will seem even to look at him over their shoulders,
and hC will find it impossible to shun their gaze
but by quitting the apartment.
As the epectator in thi. case changes his position'
in a horizontal plane, the effect which we have de-
' scribed. is accompanied by an apparent diminution
in the breadth of the human face, from only seven
or eight inches till it disappears at a great ob-
liquity. In moving, therefore, from a front view
to the most oblique view of the face, the change in
its apparent breadth is 150 slow that the apparent
motion of the head of the figure is scarcely recog-
nized as it follows the spectator. But if the per-
spective figure has a great breadth in a horizontal
plane, such as a soldier firing his musket, an artil-
leryman his piece of ordnance, a bowman drawing
1tia bow, or a lancer pushing his spear, the appa-
rent breadth of the figure will vary from five to
six feet or upwards till it disappears, and therefore
the change of apparent magnitude is sufficiently
rapid to give the figure the dreaded appearance of
turning round, and following the spectator. One
of the best examples of this must have been o~n
observed in the fore-shortened figure of a dead body
lying horizontally, wbi.ch has the.appearance of
following the observer with great rapidity, and
turning round upon the head as the centre of
motion.
The cause ofthis phenomenon is easily explained.
Let .us suppose a portrait with its face and its eyes
iin:eted straight in front, so as to look at the spec-
o''""' ,,Coogle
MOTION OF THB FBATVIlBS OF A PORTRAIT. 123
tator. Let a straight line be drawn through the
tip of the noee and half way between the eyes,
which we shall call the middle line. On each side
of this middle line there will be the same breadth
of bead, of cheek, of chin, and of neck, and each
iris will be in the middle of the white of the eye.
H we now go to one side, the apparent horizontal
breadth of every part of the head and face will be
diminished, but the parts on each side of the mid-
dle line will be diminished equally, and at any
poaition, however oblique, there will be the same
breadth of face on each side of the middle line,
and the iris will be in the centre of the white of
the eyeball, so that the portrait preserves all the
characters of a figure looking at the spectator, and
must necessarily do so wherever he stands.
This explanatron might be illustrated by a pic-
ture which represents three artillerymen,each firing
a piece of ordnance in parallel directions. Let the
gun of the middle one be pointed accurately to the
fY1e of the spectator, so that he sees neither its
nght side nor its left, nor its upper nor its under
aide, but directly down its muzzle, so that if there
was an opening in the breech he would see through
it. In like manner the spectator will see the left
side of the gun on his left hand, and the right side
of the gun on his right hand. If the spectator now
changes his place, and takes ever such an oblique
position, either laterally or vertically, he must still
see the same thing, because nothing else is pre-
sented to his view. The gun of the middle soldier
must always point to his eye, and the other guns
to the right and left of him. They must therefore
all three seem to move as he moves, and follow his
· o''""' ,,Coogle
J24 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
eye in all its changes of place. The same obser-
vations are of course applicable to buildings and •
streets seen in perspective.
In common portraits the apparent motion of the
head is generally rendered indistinct by the canvas
being imperfectly stretched, as the slightest conca-
vity or convexity entirely deforms the face when
the obliquity is considerable. The deception is
therefore best seen when the painting is execut~
on a very flat board, and in colours sufficiently
vivid to represent every line in the face with tole-
rable distinctness at great obliquities. This dis-
tinctness of outline is indeed necessary to a satis-
factory exhibition of this optical illusion. The
most perfect exhibition, indeed, that I ever saw
of it was in the case of a painting of a ship upon
a sign-board executed in strongly gilt lines. It
Contained a view of the stern and side of a ship
in the stocks, arid, owing to the flatness of the
board and the brightness of the lines, the gradual
developement of the figure from the most violent
foreshortening at great obliquities till it attained
its perfect form, was an effect which surprised
every person that saw it.
The only other optical illusion which our limits
will permit us to explain, is the very remarkable
experiment of what may be truly called breathing
light or darkness. Let S be a candle whose light
falls at an angle of 56° 45' upon two glass plates
A, B, placed close to each other, and let the re-
flected rays A C, B D, fall at the same angle upon
two similar plates, C, D, but so placed that the plane
of reflexion from the latter is at right angles to the
plane of reflexion from the former. An eye placed
o''""' ,,Coogle
BREATHING LIGHT AND DARKNESS. 12$
at E, and looking at the same time into the two
plates C and D, will see very faint images of the
candle S, which, by a slight adjustment of the
FiK. 29.
plates, may be made to disappear almost wholly,
allowing the plate C to remain as it is, change the
position of D, till its inclination to the ray BD is
diminished about 3i0 , or made nearly 5::1° ll'.
When this is done, the image that had disappeared
on looking into D will be restored, so that the
spectator at E, upon looking into the two mirrors
C, D, will see no light in C, because the candle
has nearly disappeared, while the candle is dis-
tinctly seen in D. _ If, while the spectator is look-
ing into these two mirrors, either he or another
person breathes upon them gently and quickly, the
breath will revive the extinguished image in C,
and will extinguish the visible image in D. The
following is the cause of this singular result. The
light AC, BD, is polarized by reflexion from the
plates A, B, because it is incident at the polarizing
angle of 56° 45' for glass. When we breathe
upon the plates C, D, we form upon their surface
a thin film Qf water, whose polarizing angle is
53° 111, so that if the polarized rays AC, BD, fell
upon the plates C, D, at an angle of 53° 11', the
.
o''""' ,,Coogle
-..
126 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
candle from which they proceeded would not be
visible, or they would not suffer reflexion from the
plates C, D. At all other angles the light would
be reflected and the candles visible. Now the plate
Dis placed at an angle of 53° 111 and Cat an
angle of 56° 451, so that when a film of water is
breathed upon them the light will be reflected from
the latter, and none from the former : that is, the
act of breathing upon the plates will restore the
invisible, and extinguish the visible image.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SJ.'BOTRE OP TUB BROCKEN.· I if
LETTER VI.
No.lural phenomena marhed wilh the marvello111-S~re ef
the Brocken de1cribetl-Analogou1 phettomtna-.Atrial
1pectre1 lf.ffl in Cumherland-Fato. Morgana in tile 1traif1
of Me1sina-Object1 beluw tile horizon rai1ed and ma,n.
jied by t'efraction-Singular e:rample 1em at H41ti"!!-
Dover Castle 'em through tile hill mt wllich it llantU-
Erect and invertedimagea ofdittant 1hips •em in th• air-
Similar phmomt11a 1een in tile Arctic regiotu-Enclluttled
Cllalt-Mr. Score1by recogttize• Ail father'• lllip by it•
aiirial image-Image• of cowl .een itt the air-Inverletl
Image of hor1e1 1een in South .America-Lateral image•
produced by rifractiott-Aiirial 1pectre1 by refttzio-
Ezplanation of the preceding phettomertll.
AMONG the wonders of the natural world which
are every day presented to us, without either ex-
citing our surprise or attracting our notice, some
are occasionally displayed which possess all the
characters of supernatural phenomena. In the
names by which they are familiarly known, we
recognize the terror which they inspired, and even
now, when science has reduced them to the level of
natural phenomena, and developed the causes from
which they arise, they still retain their primitive
importance, and are watched by the philosopher
with as intense an interest as when they were
deemed the immediate effects of Divine power.
Among these phenomena we may enumerate the
o''""' ,,Coogle
}28 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
Spectre ofthe Bracken, the Fata Morgana of the
Straits of Messina, the Spectre Sltips which ap-
pear in the air, and the other extraordinary effects
of the Mirage"'.
The Brocken is the name of the loftiest of the
Hartz Mountains, a picturesque range which lies
in the kingdom of Hanover. It is elevated 3300
feet above the sea, and commands the view of a
plain seventy leagues in extent, occupying nearly
the two-hundredth part of the whole of Europe,
and animated with a population of above five mil-
lions of inhabitants. From the earliest periods of
authentic history, the Brocken has been the seat of
the marvellous. On its summits are still seen huge
blocks of granite called the Sorcerer's Chair and
the Altar. A spring of pure water is known by
the name of the Magic Fountain, and the Anemone
t>f the Brocken is distinguished by the title of the
Sorcerer's Flower. These names are supposed to
have originated iu the rites of the great Idol Cor-
tho, whom the Saxons worshipped in secret on the
summit of the Brocken, when Christianity was
extending her benignant sway over the subjacent
plains.
As the locality of these idolatrous rites, the
Brocken must have been much frequented, and we
can scarcely doubt that the spectre which now so
often haunts it at sunrise must have been observed
• In the Sanscrit, says Baron Humboldt, the pheoome-
Jlon of the Mirage is callerlll-friga Triclma, ''thirst ord~sire
of the anklope," no doubt because this animal Mriga, com•
)ll'lled by thirst, Triclma, approach~a those barren plains
.where, from the efFect of un~qual refraction, he thinks h~
J>erct'ivu the llndulating surface of th~ waters.-Pn-1onal
Nt11·rativ~, Vol. iii., p. 554.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPECTRE OF THE BROCKBN. 129
~ from the earliest times; but it is nowhere men-
tioned that this phenomenon was in any way
associated with the objects of their idolatrous
worship. One of the best accounts of the •pectre
of the Brocken is that which is given by M.
Haue, who saw it on the 23d of May, 1797.
After having been on the summit of the mountain
no less than thirty times, he had at last .the good
fortune of witnessing the object of his curiosity.
The sun rose about four o'clock in the morning
through a serene atmosphere. Iu the south-west,
towards Achtermannshohe, a brisk west wind
carried before it the transparent vapours, which
had not yet been condensed into thick heavy
clouds. About a quarter past four he went to-
wards the inn, and looked round to see whether
the atmosphere would afford him a free prospect
towards the south-west, when he observed at a
very great distance, towards Achtermannshohe, a
human figure of a monstrous size. His hat
having been almost carried away by a violent
gust of wind, he suddenly raised his hand to his
head, to protect his hat, and the colossal figure
did the same. He immediately made another
movement by bending his body,-an action which
was repeated by the spectral figure. M. Haue
was desirous of making further experiments, but
the figure disappeared. He remained, however,
in the same,position, expecting its return, and in
a few minutes it again made its appearance on
the Achtermannshohe, when it mimicked his ges-
tures as before. He then called the landlord of
the inn, and having both taken the same position
which he had before, they looked towards the
I .
o''""' ,,Coogle
130 LETTERS ON NATURAL li!.GIC.
Achtermannshohe, bu~ saw nothing. In a very
short epace of time, however, two colossal figures
were formed over the above eminence, and after
bending their bodies and imitating the gestures of
the two spectators, they disappeared. Retaining
their position, and keeping their eyes still fixed
upon the same spot, the two gigantic spectres
~ again stood before them, and were joined by a
third. Every movement that they made was imi-
tated by the three figures, but the effect varied in
its intensity, being sometimes weak aud faint, and
at other times strong and well defined.
Fig.30.
In the year 1798, M. Jordan saw the same phe-
nomenon at sunrise, and under similar circum-
stances, but with less distinctness, and without any
duplication of the figures •.
~henomena perfectly analogous to the pre-
cedmg, though seen under less imposing circum-
stances, have been often witnessed. When the
-~· See J. F. G-lin'11 GoiiU.gi•cm Jollmlll dff' Funn•
.-.ftm, vol. i. part iii. 1798.
o''""' ,,Coogle
AERIAL SP&CTRES 1!'1' CUIIBERLAKD. JJl r
ttpectator seea hia own shadow opposite to the
sun upon a maaa of thin fleecy vapour passing
near him, it not only imitates all his movements,
but its head is diatinctly encircled with a halo of
light. The a~rial figure is often not larger thaa
life, its size and ita apparent distance depending,.
as we shall afterwards see, upon particular cauaes~
I have·often seen a aimilar shadow when batbipg
in a bright summer'a day in an extensive pool of
deep water. When the fine mud deposited at the
bottom of the pool is disturbed by the feet of the
bather, so as to be disseminated through the mass
of water in the direction of his shadow, his sha-
dow is no longer a shapeless mass formed upon
the bottom, but is a regular figure formed upon
the floating particles of mud, and·having the head
surrounded with a halo, not only luminous, but
consisting of distinct radiations.
One df the most interesting accounts of aerial
spectres with which we are acquainted has been
given by Mr. James Clarke, in his Survey of the
Lakes of Cumberland, and the accuracy of this
account was cOnfirmed by the attestations of two
of the persons by whoiJl the phenomena were first
.een. On a summer's evening, in the year 1743,
when Daniel Stricket, servant to John Wren, of
Wilton Hall, was sitting at the door along with
his master, they saw the figure of a man with a
dog purslling some horses along Souterfell~aide, a
place .so extremely ~teep, that a horse co1.1ld
ecareely travel upon it at all. The figures ap-
peared to run at an amazing pace, till they got out
.of sight at the lower enll of the fell. On the fol·
lowiug morning, Stricket and his master asceucled
I 2
o''""' ,,Coogle
)32 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
the steep side of the mountain, in the full expecta-
tion of finding the man dead, and of picking up
some of the shoes of the horses, which they thought
must have been cast while galloping at such a
furious rate. Their expectations, however, were
disappointed. No traces, either of man or horse,
could be found, and they could not even discover
upon the turf the single mark of a horse's hoof.
These strange appearances, seen at the same time
by two different persons in perfect health, could
not fail to make a deep impression on their minds.
They at first concealed what they had seen, but
they at length disclosed it, and were laughed at
for their credulity.
In the following year, on the 23d June, 1'744.,
Daniel Stricket, who was then servant to Mr.
Lancaster, of Blakehills, (a place near Wilton
Hall, and both of which places are ·only about half
a mile from Souter(ell,) was walking, about seven
o'clock in the evening, a little above the house,
when he saw a troop of horsemen riding on
Souterfell-side, in pretty close ranks, and at a
brisk pace. Recollecting the ridicule that had
bee\) cast upon him the preceding year, he con-
tinued to observe the figures for E~ome time in
silence ; but being at last convinced that there
could be no deception in the matter, he went to
the house, and informed his master that he had
.something curious to show him. They accord-
ingly went out together; but before Stricket had
pointed out the place, Mr. Lancaster's son had
discovered the at;rial figures. The family waa
then summoned to the spot, and the phenomena
were seen alike by them all. The equestria.D
o''""' ,,Coogle
FATA MORGANA, 133
figures seemed to come from the lowest parts of
Souterfell,. and became visible at a place called
Knott. They then advanced in regular troops
along the side of the Fell, till they came opposite
to Blakehills, when lhey went over the mountain,
after describing a kind of curvilineal path. The
pace at which the figures moved was a regular
swift walk, and they continued to be seen for
upwards of two hours, the approach of darkness
alone preventing them from being visible. Many;
troops were seen in succession ; and frequently
the last but one in a troop quitted his position,.
galloped to t.)le front, and took up the same pace·
with the rest. The changes in · the figures were
seen equally by-all the spectators, and the view of
them was not confined to the farm of Blakehills
only, but they were seen by every person at every
cottage within the distance of a mile, the number
of persons who saw them amounting to about .
twenty-six. The attestation of these facts, signed.
.by Lancaster and Stricket, bears the date of the:
21st July, 1785.
These extraordinary sights were received not
only with distrust, but with absolute incredulity.
They were not even honoured with a place in the
records of natural phenomena, and the philoso-
phers of the day were neither. in possession of
analogous facts, nor were they acquainted with
those principles of atmospherical refraction upon
which they depend. The strange phenomena,
indeed, of the Fata Morgana, or the Castles of
the Fairy Morgana, had been long before ob-
served, and had been described by Kircher in the
1,7th century, but they presented npthing so mys-
o''""' ,,Coogle
134 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
terio11s as the aerial trOopers of SouterfeU ; and the
genera] characten o( the two phenomena were so
unlike, that even a phi1osophennight have been
excused for ascribing them to different causes.
This l!ingular exhibition hl\s been frequently
eeen in the Straits of Me11sina, between Sicily and
the coast of Italy, and whenever it takes place,
the people, in a state of exultation, as if it were
not only a pleasing but a lucky phenomenon,
~urry down to the aea, e:s:claiming Morgana,
Morgana! When the rays of the rising sun form
an angle of 45o on the sea of Reggio, and when
the surface of the water is perfectly unrufBed,
either by the wind or the current, a spectator
placed upon an eminence in the city, and having
his back to the sun and his face to the l!lea,
()bserves upon the surface of the water superb
palaces, with their balconies and windows, lofty
towers, herds and flock! grazing in wooded val•
leys and fertile plains, armies of tnen on horse-
back and on foot, with multiplied fragments of
buildings, such as columns, pilasters, and arches.
These objects paiSs rapidly in succnsion along the
surface of the sea during the brie( period of their
appearance. The various objects thus enumerated
are pictures of palaces and buildings actually ex-
isting on shore, and the living objects are of course
only seen when they happen to form a part of the
generallandsrape.
If at the time that these phenomena are visible,
the atmosphere is charged with vapour or .denlle
exhalations, the same objects which are depicted
upon the sea will be seen also in the air, occupy-
ing a space which extends from the l!lurface to the
o''""' ,,Coogle
OBJECTS BELOW TB.E HORIZON IIAGNIFII!D. 135
height of twenty-five feet. These images, however.
are less distinctly delineated that} the former.
If the air is in such a !!tate as to deposit dew.
and is capable of forming the rainbow, the objects
will be seen only on the surface of the sea ; but
they all appear fringed with red, yellow, and blue
light, as if they were seen through a prism.
In our own country, and in our own times, facta
still more extraordinary have been witnessed. From
Hastings, on the coast of Sussex, the cliffs on the
French coast are fifty miles distant, and they are
actually hid by the convexity of the earth; that is,
a straight line drawn from Hastings to the French
- coast would pass through the sea. On Wednesday,
the 26th of July, 1798, about five o'clock in the
afternoon, Mr. Latham, a Fellow of the Royal
Society, then residing at Hastings, was surprisecl
to see a crowd of people running to the sea-side.
Upon inquiry into the cause of this, he learned
that the coast of France could be seen by the naked
eye, and he immediately went down to witness so
singular a sight. He distinctly saw the cliffs ex-
tending for some leagues along the French coast,
and they appeared as if they were only a few miles
off. They gradually appeared more and more ele-
vated, and seemed to approach nearer to the eye.
The sailors with whom Mr. Latham walked along
the water's edge were at first unwilling to believe
in the reality of the appearance; but they soon
became so thoroughly convinced of it, that they
pointed out and named to him the different places
which they had been accustomed to visit, and
which they conceived to be as near as if they were
sailing at a small distance into the harbour. These
o''""' ,,Coogle
186 LETTERS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
appearances continued for nearly an hour, the
cliffs sometimes appearing brighter and nearer,
and at other times fainter and more remote. Mr.
Latham then went upon the eastern cliff or hill,
which is of considerable height, when, as he re-
marks, a most beautiful scene presented itself to
his view. He beheld at once Dungeness, Dover
cliffs, and the French coast all along from Calais,
Boulogne,, &c. to St. Vallery, and, as some of the
fishermen affirmed, as far west as Dieppe. With
the help of a telescope, the French .fishing-boats
were plainly seen at anchor, and the different co-
lours of the land upon the heights, together with
the buildings, were perfectly discernible. Mr. La-
tham likewise states that the cape of land called
Dungeness, which extends nearly two miles into
the sea, and is about sixteen miles in a straight line _
from Hastings, appeared as if quite close to it, and
the vessels and fishing-hoats which were sailing
between the two places appeared equally near, and
were magnified to a high degree. These curious
phenomena continued " in the highest splendour"
till past eight o'clock, although a black cloud had
for some time totally obscured the face of the sun.
A phenomenon no less marvellous"was seen by
·Professor Vince, of Cambridge, and another gen-
tleman, on the 6th of August, 1806, at Ramsgate.
The summits v 10 x y of the four turrets of Dover
Castle are usually seen over the hill A B, upon
which it standl:l, lying between Ramsgate and
Dover; but on the day above-mentioned, at seven
o'clock in the evening, when the air was very still
and a little hazy, not only were the tops v 111 x y
of the four towers of Dover Castle seen over the
o''""' ,,Coogle
\
\
SPECTRE OF DOVER CMTLE. 137
adjacent hill A B, but the wlwle of the Castle,.
m n r s, appeared as iflt were situated on the side
of the hilt next Ramsgate, and rising above the
hill as much as usual. This phenomenon was so
very singular and unexpected, that at first sight
Dr. Vince thought it an illusion; but upon conti-
nuing his observations, he became satisfied that
it was a real image of the Castle. Upon this he
Fig. lll.
gave a telescope to a pe111on present, who, upon
attentive examination; saw also a very clear image
of the Castle as the Doctor had described it. He
continued to observe it for about twenty minutes,.
during which time the appearance remained pre-
cisely the same ; but rain coming on, they were
prevented from making any further observations.
Between the observers and the land from which
- .the hill rises there was about six miles of sea,
and from thence to the top of the hill there was
about the same distance. Their own height
above the surface of the water was about seventy
feet.
o''""' ,,Coogle
138 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
This illusion derived great force from the re-
markable circumstance, that the hill itself did not
appear through the image, as it might have been
expected to do. The image of the castle was very
strong and well defined, and though the rays from
the hill behind it must undoubtedly have come to
the eye, yet the strength of the image of the castle
·so far obscured the background, that it made no
sensible impression on the observeriJ. Their atten-
tion was of course principally directed to the image
of the castle ; but if the hill behind had been at
all visible, Dr. Vince conceives that it could not
have e!Caped their observation, as they continued
to look at it for a conaiderable time with a good
telescope. ·
Hitherto our a~rial visions have been seen only
in their erect and natural positions, either pro-
jected against the ground or elevated in the air;
but cases have occurred in whicb. both erect and
inverted images of objects have been seen in the
air, sometimes singly, sometimes combined, some-
Fig.S2.
o''""' ,,Coogle
INVERTED IM.lCiiE OF A SHIP. 139
times when the real object was inviaible, andsome-
times when a part of it had begun to show itself
to the spectator. •
In the year 1793, Mr. Huddart, when reaidiDg
at Allonby, in Cumberland, perceived the inverted
image of a ship beneath the image, as shown in
Fig. 32; but Dr. Vince, who afterward& observed
this phenomenon under a greater variety of forms,
found that the ship, which was here considered the
real one, was only an erect image of the real ship,
which was at the time beneath the horizon, and
wholly invisible.
Fi!f· :J3
140 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
In August, 1798, Dr. Vince observed a great
variety of these ai!rial images of vessels approach-
ing the horizon. Sometimes there was sepn only
one inverted image above the real ship, and this was
generally the case when the real ship was full in
view. · But when the real ship was just beginning
to show its top-mast above the horizon, as at A,
Fig. 33, two at;rial images of it were seen, one at
B, inverted, and the other in its natural position
at C. In this case the sea was distinctly visible
between the erect and inverted images,but "in other
cases the hull of the one image was immediately
in contact with-the hull of the other.
Analogous phenomena were seen by Captain
Scoresby when navigating with the ship Baffin the
icy sea in the immediate neighbourhood of West
'Greenland. On the 28th of June, 1820, he ob-
served about eighteen sail of ships at the distance
of ten or fifteen miles. The sun had shone during
the day without the interposition of a cloud, and
its rays were peculiarly powerful. The intensity of
its light occasioned a painful sensation in,the eyes,
while its heat softened the tar in the rigging of the
ship, and melted the snow on the surrounding ice
with such rapidity, that pools of fresh water were
formed on almost every place, and thousands of
rills carried the excess into the sea. There was
scarcely a breath of wind : the sea was as smooth
as a mirror. The surrounding ice wa3 crowded
together, and exhibited every variety, from the
smallest lumps to ·the most magnificent sheets.
Bears traversed the fields and floes in unusual num-
bers, and many whales sported in the recesses and
openings among the drift ice. ~bout six in the
o''""' ,,Coogle
ERECT AND INVERTED IMAGES OP SHIPS. 141
evening, a light breeze at N. W. having sprung
up, a thin stratus or "fog bank," at fir11t consi-
derably illuminated by the sun, appeared in the
same quarter, and gradually rose to the altitude of
about a quarter of a degree. At this time most
of the ships navigating at the distance of ten or
fifteen miles began to change their form and mag-
nitude, and when examined by a telescope from the
mast-head exhibited some extraordinary appear-
ances, which differed at almost every point of the
compass. One ship had a perfect image, as dark
and distinct as the original, united to its mast-
head in a reverse position. Two others presented
two distinct inverted images in the air, one of them
a perfect figure of the original, and the other want-
ing the hull. Two or three more were strangely
distorted, their masts appearing of at least twice
their proper height, the top-gallant mast forming
one-half of the total elevation; and other vessels
exhibited an appearance totally different from all
the preceding, being as it were compressed in
place of elongated. Their masts seemed to be
scarcely one-half of their proper altitude, in con-
sequence of which one would have supposed that
they were greatly heeled-to one side; or in the
position called careening. Along with all the
images of the ships a reftexion of the ice, some-
times in two strata, also appeared in the air, and
these reftexions suggested the idea of cliffs com-
posed of vertical columns of alabaster.
On the 15th, 16th, and 17th, of the same month,
Mr. Scoresby observed similar phenomena, some-
times extending continuously through half the cir-
cumference of the horizon, and at other times ap-
o''""' ,,Coogle
142 LB'M'BRB ON NATURAL MAGIC.
pearing only in detached spots in various quarters.
The inverted imagea of distant vessels were often
aeen in the air, while the ships themselves were far
beyond the reach of vision. Some ships were
elevated to twice their prover height, while others
were compressed almost to a line. Hummocks of
ice were surpriaingly enlarged, and every promi·
nent object in a proper position was either mag-
nified or distorted.
But of all the phenomena witne!llled by Mr.
Scoreaby, that of the·-Encltanted Coast, as it may
be called, must have been the most remarkable.
This singular effect was seen on the 18th of July,
when the sky was clear, and a tremulous and per.
fectly transparei)t vapour was particularly sensible
twd profuse: at nine o'clock in the morning,
when the phenomenon was first aeen, the thermo-
meter stood at 4~° Fahr., but in the preceding
evening it must have been greatly lower, as the
aea was in many places covered with a consider·
able pellicle of new ice,-a circuiDBtance, which,
in the very warmest time of the year, must be con..
sidered as quite extraordinary, especially when it
ia known that I0° farther to the north no freezing
of tbe sea at this eeason had ever before been ob.
served. Having approached on thi1 occasion eo
near the unexplored ahore of GTeenland that the
land appeared distinct and bold, Mr. Scoresby was
anxious to obtain a drawing of it, but on making
the attempt he found that the outline was con,
atantly changiag, and he was induced to examine
the coast with a telescope,' and to sketeh the ~
riou1 appearancea which preeented themsel¥ee.
These are shown, without any ngard to their pro--
o''""' ,,Coogle
ENCHANTED COAST. 143
per order, in Fig. 34, which we shall describe in
Mr. Scoresby's own words : " The gene-.ral tele.
scopic appearance of the coast was that of an ex-
tensive ancient city abounding with the ruins of
castles, obelisks, churches, and monuments; witla
other large and conspicuous buildings. Some of
the hills seemed to be surmounted by turrets, battle-
ments, spires, and pinnacles; while oihers, subject-
ed to one or two reflexions, exhibited large maBSea
of rock, apparently suspended in the air, at a con-
siderable elevation above the actual termination
Fig.3-i.
of the mountains to which they referred. The
whole exhibition was a grand phantasmagoria.
Scarcely was any particular portion sketched
before it changed its appearaooe, and aBSumed the
form of an object totally different. It wu
perhaps alternately a castle, a cathedral, or an
obelisk; then expanding horizontally, and co-
alescing with the adjoining hills. united the inter-
mediate valleys, though some miles in width, by a
•'
144 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
bridge of a single arch, of the most magnificent
appearance and extent. Notwithstanding these
repeated changes, the various figures represented
in the drawing had all the distinctness of reality;
and not only the different strata, but also the
veins of the rocks, with the wre!lths of snow
occupying ravines and fissures, formed sharp and
distinct lines, and exhibited every appearance of
the moat perfect solidity."
One of the most remarkable facts respecting
aerial images presented itself to Mr. Scoresby in
a later voyage which he performed to the coaet of
Greenland in 1822. Having seen an inverted
image of a ship in the air, he directe.d to it his
telescope; he was able to discover it to be his
father's ship, which was at the time below the
horizon. "It was," says he, "so well defined,
that I could distinguish by a telescope every sail,
the general rig of the ship, and its particular cha-
racter; insomuch, that I confidently pronounce
it to be my father's ship, the Fame, which it after-
wards proved to be; though, on comparing notes
with my father, I found that our relative position,
at the time, gave a distance from one another
very nearly 30 miles, being about seventeen miles
beyond the horizon, and some leagues beyond
the limit of direct vision. I was so stntck with
the peculiarity of the circumstance, that- I men-
tioned it to the officer of the watch, stating my
full conviction that the Fame was then cruising in
the neighbouring inlet."
Several curious effects of the mirage were ob-
served by Baron Humboldt during his travels in
South America. When he was residing at Cu-
o''""' ,,Coogle
AERIAL SPECTilES BY llBFLEXION. 145
mana, he frequently saw the islands of Picuita
and Boracha suspended in the air, and sometimes
with an inverted image. On one occasion he ob-
served small fishing-boats swimming in the air,
during ·more than three or four minutes, above
the well-defined horizon of the sea; and when
they were viewed through a telescope, one of the
boats had an inverted image accompanying it in
its movemeuts. This distinguished traveller ob-
served similar phenomena in the barren steppes of
the Caraccas, and on the borders of the Orinoco,
where the river is surrounded by sandy plains.
Little hills and chains of hills appeared suspended
in the air, when seen from the steppes, at three or·
four leagues distance. Palm trees standing single
in the Llanos appeared to be cut off at bottom, as
if a stratum of air separated them from the ground ;
and, as in the African desert, ·plains destitute of
vegetation appeared to be rivers or lakes. At the
Mesa de Pavona M. Humboldt and M. Bonpland
saw cows suspended in t!te air at the distance of
1000 toises, and having their feet elevated 3' 20"
above the soil. In this case the images were erect,
but the travellers learned from good authority that
inverted images oflwrses had been seen suspended
in the air near Calabozo.
In all these cases of a~rial spectres the image&
were directly above the real object; but a curious
case was observed by MM. Jurine and Soret on
the 17th September, 1818, where the image of
the vessel was on one side of the real one. About
10 P. M. a bark at the distance of about 4000 toises
from Bellerive, on the lake of Geneva, was seen
approaching to Geneva by the left bank of the
K
o''""' ,,Coogle
146 LETTERS ON NATURAL XAGJ.C.
lake, and at the same time an image of the sails
was observed above the water, which, instead of
following the direction {)f the bark, separated from
it, and appeared to approach Geneva by the right
bank of the lake, the imfJ9t! mo.ving from east to
west, .while the bark moved from norlh to south.
When the image first separated from the bark they
had both the same magnitude, but the image dimi-
nished as it receded from it, and was reduced to
one-half when the phenomenon disappeared.
A very unusual example of aerial spectres oc-
curred to Dr. A. P. Buchan while walking on the
cliff about a mile to the east of Brighton on the
morning of the 28th November, 1804. "While
watching the rising of the sun,''says he," I turnecl
my eyes directly towards the sea, just as the BOlar
disk emerged from the surface of the water, and
saw the face of the cliff on which I was standing,
npresented precisely opposite to me at some dis-
tance on the ocean. Calling the .attention of my
~ompanion to this appearance, we discerned our
own figures standing on the summit of the appa-
rent opposite cliff, as well as the representation of
the windmill near at hand.
'' The reflected images were most distinct pi-e..
cisely opposite to where we stood, and the false cliff
seemed to fade away, and to draw near to the real
one, in proportion as it receded towards the west.
This phenomenon la•ted abont ten minutes, or till
the·sun had risea nearly his OWR di•meter above
the surface of the ocean. The whole then seemed
to be elevated into the air, and 1100Ce18ively disap-
peared, giving an impression very similar to that
which is produced by the drawing up of a .drop
o''""' ,,Coogle
SHADOW IliiAGE OF MOUNT .IETNA. J47
scene in the theatre. The horizon was cloudy, or
perhaps it might with more propriety be said that
the surface of the sea was covered with a dense
fog of many yards in height, and which gradually
receded before the rays of the sun."
An illuaion of a different kind, though not leu
interesting, is described by the Reverend Mr.
Hughes in his Travels in Greece, as seen from the
summit of Mount 1Etna. "I must not forget to
mention," says he, " one extraordinary phenome-
non, which we observed, and for which I have
searched in vain for a satisfactory solution. At the
extremity of the vast shadow which 1Etna projects
across the island, appeared a perfect and distinct
image of the mountain itself elevated above the
horizon, and diminished as if viewed in a concave
mirror. Whereor what the reflector could be which
exhibited this-image, I cannot conceive; we could
not be mistaken in its appearance, for all our party
observed it, and we had been prepared for it before-
hand by our Catanian friends. It remained visible
about ten minutes, and disappeared as the shadow
decreased. Mr. Jones observed the same pheno-
~non, as well as some other friends with whom
I conversed up{Jn the subject in England."
It is impossible to study the preceding pheno-
mena without being impressed with the conviction,
that nature is full of the marvellous, and that the
progress of science and the diffusion of knowledge
are alone capable ofdispelling the fears which her
wonders mustnecessarily excite even in enlightened
minds. When a spectre haunts the couch of the
sick, or follows the susceptible vision of the invalid.
a consciousness of indisposition divests the appa-
K2
o''""' ,,Coogle
148 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
rition of much of its terror, while its invisibility to
surrounding friends soon stamps it with the impress
of a false perception. The spectres of the conjurer,
too, however skilfully they may be raised, quickly
lose their supernatural character; and even the most
ignorant beholder regards the modem magician as
but an ordinary man,who borrows from the sciences
the best working implements of his art. But when,
in the midst of solitude, and in situations where
the mind is undisturbed by sublunary cares, we see
our own image delineated in the air, and mimick-
ing in gigantic perspective the tiny movements of
humanity ;-when we see troops in military array
performing their evolutions on the very face of an
almost inaccessible precipice;-when, in the eye of
day, a mountain seems to become transparent, and
exhibits on one side of it a castle which we know
to exist only on the other; wh~n distant objects,
concealed by the roundness of the earth, and beyond
the cognizance of the telescope, are actually trans-
ferred over the intervening convexity and pre-
sented in distinct and magnified outline to our ac-
curate examination ;-whensuchvariedandstriking
phantasms are seen also by all around us, and there-
fore appear in the character of real phenomena of
nature,'OUT impressions of supernatural agency can
only be removed by a distinct and satisfactory
knowledge of the causes which gave them birth.
It is only within the last forty years that science
has brought these atmospherical spectres within
the circle of her dominion ; and not only are all
their phenoll)ena susceptibleofdistinct explanation,
but we can even reproduce them on a small scale
with the simplest elementa of our optical apparatus.
o''""' ,,Coogle
EXPLANATION OF SPECTRE SHIPS. 149
In order to convey a general idea of the causes
of these phenomena, letABCD, Fig. 35, be a glass
trough filled with water, and let a small ship be
placed at S. An eye situated about E, will see the
top-mast of the ship S, directly through the plate
of glass BD. Fix a convex lens a of short focu!J
upon the plate of glass BD, and a little above a
straight line SE joining the ship and the eye ; and
immediately above the convex lens a place a con-
cave one b. The eye will now see, through the
Fig. 35.
convex lens a, an trcverted image of the ship at S ',
and through the concave lens b, an erect image of
the ship at S'', representing in a general.way the
phenomena shown in Fig. 33. But it will be
asked, where are the le~es in nature to produce
these effects? This question is easily answered.
Ifwe take a tin tube with glass plates at each end,
and fill it with water, and if we cool it on the out-
side with ice, it will act like a concave lens when
the cooling effect has reaehed the axis ; and, on
the other hand, if we heat the same tube filled
with-water, on the outside, it will act as a convex
o''""' ,,Coogle
..
150 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
glass. In the first cllse the density of the water
diminishes towards the centre, and in the second
it increases towards the centre. The very same
effects are-produced in the air, only a greater tract
of air is necessary for sh'.>wing the effect produced,
by heating and cooling it unequally. If we now
rt>move the lenses a, b, and hold a heated iron
horizontally. above the water in the trough A B C,
the heat will gradually descend, expanding or ren-
dering rarer the upper portions of the fluid. If,
when the heat has reached within a little of the
bottom, we look through the trough at the ship S
in the direction E S', we shall see an inv~rted image
at S', and an erect one at S"; and if we hide from
the eye at E all the ship S excepting the top-rnast,
we shall have an exact representation of the phe-
uomenon in Fig. 33. The experiment will succeed
better with oil in place of water; and the same
result may be obtained without heat, by pouring
clear syrup into the glaes trough till it is nearly
one-third full, and then filling it up with water.
The water will gradually· incorporate with the
syrup, and produce, as Dr. Wollaston has shown, ·
a regular .gradation of density, diminishing from
that of the pure syrup to that of the pure water.
Similar effects may be obtained by using masses
of transparent solids, such as glass, rock-salt, &c.
Now it is easy to concetve how the changes of
density which we can thus produce artificially may
be produced in nature. If, in serene weather, the
snriace of the sea is much colder than the air of
the atmosphere, as it frequently is, and as it was
to a very great degree during the phenomena de-
I!Cribed by Mr. Scoresby, the air next the sea will
padually become colder and colder, by giving out
o''""' ,,Coogle
EXPLANATION OF IIP.KCTR.B SHIPS. 151
its heat to the water ; and the air immediately
above will give out its heat to the cooler air iffi-
diately below it, so that the air from the sur-
face of the sea, to a considerable height upwards,
will gradually diminish in density, and therefore
must produce the very phenomena we have· de-
scribed.
The phenomenon of Dover Castle seen on the
Ramsga:te side of the hill was produced by the air
being more dense near the ground and above the
sea than at greater heights, and hence the rays
proceeding from the castle reached the eye in curve
lines, and the cause of its occupying its natural
position on the hill, and not being seen in the air,
was that the top of the hill itself, in consequence
of being so near the castle, suffered the same .
change from the varying density of the air, and
therefore the castle and the hill were equally ele-
vated and retained their relative positions. The
reason why the image of the castle and hill ap-
peared erect was, that the rays from the top and
bottom of the castle had not crossed before they
Fi'g. 36.
'''"'"'',Coogle
...
152 LBTTER..'l ON NATURAL MAGIC.
re!lched Ramsgat~; but as they met at Ramsgate,
an eye at a grea~er distance from the castle, and
in the path of the rays, would have seen the
image inverted. This will be better undel"!ltood
from the preceding diagram, which represents the
actual progress of the rays, from a sl1ip S P, con-
cealed from the observer at E by the convexity of
the earth P Q E. A ray proceediug from the keel
of the ship P is refracted into the curve line
P c x c E, and a ray proceeding from the top-mast
S, is refracted in the direction S d x d E,"the two
rays crossing at x, and proceeding to the eye E
with the ray from the keel P uppermost; ·hence
the ship must appear inverted as at s p. Now if
the eye E of the observer had been placed nearer
the ship as at x, before the rays crossed, as was
thl!'case at Ramsgate, it would have seen an erect
image of the ship raised a little above the real
11hip S P. . Rays S m, S n, proceeding higher up
in the air, are refracted in the directions S m m E,
S n n E, but do not cross before they reach the
eye, and therefore they afford the erect image of
the ship shown at s' p'. .
The aerial troopers seen at Souterfell were pro-
duced by tpe very same process as the spectre of
Dover Castle, having been brought by unequal
-refraction from one side of the hill to the other.
It is not our business to discover how a troop of
soldiers came to be performing their evolutions on
the other side of Souterfell ; hut if there was then
no road along which they could be marching, it is
highly probable that they were troops exercising
among the hills in secret previous to the breaking
out of the rebellion in 1745•
EXPLANATION OF PHBNOIIIENA. 153
The image of the Genevese bark which was
seen sailing at a distance from the real one, arose
from the same cause as the images of ships in the
air, with this difference only, that in this case the
strata of equal density were vertical or perpen-
dicular to the water, whereas, in the former cases,
they were horizontal or parallel to the water.
The state of the air which produced the lateral
image may be produced by a headland or island,
or even rock!!, near the -surface, and covered with
water. These headlands, islands, or sunken rocks
being powerfully heated by the sun in the day-
time, will heat the air immediately above them,
while the adjacent air over the sea will retain its
former coolness and density. Hence there will
necessarily arise a gradation of density varying
in the same horizontal direction, or where the
lines of equal density are vertical. If we suppose
the very same state of the air to exist in a hori-
zontal plane which exists in a vertical plane, in
Fig. 36, then the same images would be seen in a
horizontal line, viz., an inverted one·at sp, and
an erect one at s' p'. In the case of the Gene-
vese bark, the rays had not crossed before they
reached the eye, and therefore the-image was an
erect one. Had the real Genevese bark been
concealecl by some promontory or other cause
from the observation of MM. Jurine and Soret,
they might have attached a supernatural character
to the spectral image, especially if they had seen
it gradually decay, and finally disappe~r on the
still and unbroken surface of the lake. No similar
fact had been previously observed, and there were
no circumstances in the case to have excited the
o''""' ,,Coogle
154 LETHilS ON NATUB.A.L 'MAGIC.
auspicion that it was the spectre of a real vessel
produced by unequal refraction.
The spectre of the Brocken and other pheno-
mena of the same kind have essentially a different
origin from those which arise from unequal refrac-
,tion. They are merely shadows of the observer
projected on dense vapour or thin fleecy clouds,
which have the power of reflecting much light.
They are seen most frequently at sunrise, because
it ia at that time that the V&pours and clouds ne-
-cessary for their production are most likely to be
generated; and they can be seen only when the
sun is throwiJlg his rays horizontally, because the
shadow of the observer would otherwise be thrown
either up in the air, or down upon the ground:
If there are two persons looking at the pheno-
menon, as when M. Haue and the landlord saw it
together, each observer will see his own image
most distinctly, and the head will be more distinct
than the rest of the figure, because the rays of the
sun will be more copiously reflected at a perpen-
dicular incidence : and as, from this cause, the
light reflected from the vapour or cloud becolllCII
fainter farther from the shadow, the appearance of
a halo round the head of the observer is frequently _
visible. M. Haue mentiona the extraordinary cir-
cumstance of the two spectres of him and the
landlord being joined by a third figure, but he
unfortunately does not inform us which of the two
figures was doubled, for it is impossible that a
person could have joined their party unobserved.
It is very probable that the new spectre forms a
natural addition to the group, as we have repre-
eented it in Fig. 30; and if this was the case, it
o''""' ,,Coogle
I!XI'LANATION OF PHENOMENA, 155
could only have been produced by a duplication of
one of the figures produced by unequal refraction.
The reflected spectre of Dr. Buchan standing
upon the cliff at Brighton arose from a cause to
which we have not yet adverted. It was obviously
no shadow, for it is certain, from the locality, that
the rays of the sun fell upon the face of the cliff
and upon his person at an angle of about 73° from
the perpendicular, so as to illuminate them strongly.
Now there are two ways in which such an image
may have been reflected, namely, either from strata
of air of variable density, or from a vertical stra-
tum of vapour, consisting of exceeiingly minute
globules of water. Whenever light suffers re-
fraction, either in passing at once from one medium
into another, or from one part of the same medium
into another of different density, a portion of it
suffers reflexion. If an object, therefore, were
strongly illuminated, a sufficiently distinct image,
or rather shadow of it, might be seen by reflexion·
from strata of air of different density. As the
temperature at which moisture is deposited in the
atmosphere varies with the density of the air, then
at the same temperature moisture might be de-
positing in a stratum of one density, while no
deposition is taking place in the adjacent' stratum
of a different density. Hence there would exist,
as it were, in the air, a vertical wall or stratum
of minute globules of water, from the surface of
which a sufficiently distinct image of a highly
illuminated object might be reflected. That ·this
is possible may be proved by breathing upon glass.
If the particles deposited upon the glass are large,
then no distinct reftexion will take place; but if
o''""' ,,Coogle
156 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
the particles be very small, we shall see a distinct
image formed by the surface of the aqueous film.
The phenomena of the Fata Morgana have been
too imperfectly described to enable us to offer a
satisfactory explanation of them. The aerial images
are obviously those formed by unequal refraction.
The pictures seen. on the sea may be either the
aerial images reflected from its surface, or from a
stratum of dense vapour, or they may be the
direct reflexions from the objects themselves. The
coloured images, as described by Minasi, have
never been seen in any analogous phenomena, and
require to be better described before they can be
submitted to scientific examination.
The representation of ships in the air by unequal
refraction has no doubt given rise in early times to
those superstitions which have prevailed in different
countries respecting "phantom ships," as Mr.
Washington Irving calls them, which always sail
in the eye of the wind, and plough their way
through the smooth sea, where there is IJPt a
breath of wind upon its surface. In his beautiful
story of the storm ship, which makes its way up
the Hudson against wind and tide, this elegant
writer has finely embodied one of the most in-
teresting superstitions of the early American colo-
nists. The Flying Dutchman had, in all probabi-
lity, a similar origin; and the wizard beacon-keeper
of the Isle of France, who saw in the air the ves-
sels bound to the island long before they appeared
in the offing, must have derived his power from a
diligent observation of the phenomena of nature.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPEAKING AND SINGING HEADS, 157
LETTER VII.
lllu1ion1 d~~nding on lhe~a•·-Pracliwl bg the anci~nii.­
Sp~aking a11d ainging hca<U 1Jf t!.e ancimt•-Ezllibition
of the l>lvisible a...t d~•crib~d and ~zplaillt:d-11/usionl
ari1ing from lhe dijJiclllty of d~l~•·mining the dirulion of
10und•-Singll/nr unmpl~ of IIIia illlllifln-Nulure of
vmtt·iloquinn-E:rltibition• oflome of lhernoll ccl~bral~d
vnitriloquiii1-M. St. Gi/1~-Louis Br~bant-M. Al~:r­
aridr~-C<•pt. Lyon'• account of E1kimauz ventriloquist•.
NEXT to the eye, the ear is the most fertile source
of our illusions, and the ancient magicians seem to
have been very successful in turning to their pur-
poses the doctrines of sound. In the labyrinth of
Egypt, which contained twelve palaces and 1500
subterraneous apartments, the gods were made to
speak in a voice of thunder; and Pliny, in whose
time this singular structure existed, informs us,
that some of the palaces were so constructed that
their doors could not be opened without pem1itting
the peals of thunder to be heard in the in-
terior. When Darius Hystaspes ascended the
throne, and allowed his subjects to prostrate them-
selves before him as a god, the divinity of his cha-
racter was impressed upon his worshippers by the
bursts of thunder and flashes of lightning which
accompanied their devotion. History has of course
not informed us how these effects were produced;
but it is probable that, in the subterraneous and
vaulted at>artments of the Egyptian·labyrinth, the
reverberated sounds arising from the mere opening ,
o''""' ,,Coogle
118 LETTB~ ON NATURAL MAGIC.
and shutting of the doors themselves afforded a
sufficient imitation of ordinary thunder. In the
palace of the Persian king, however, a more arti-
ficial imitation is likely to have been employed,
and it is uot improbable that the ·method used iu
our modern theatres was known to the ancients.
A thin sheet of iron, three or four feet long, such
as that used for German stoves, is held by one
comer between the finger and the thumb, and
allowed to hang freely by its own weight. The
hand is then moved or shaken horizontally, so as
to agitate the comer in a direction at right angles
to the surface of the ~beet. By this simple pro-
cess a great variety of sounds will be produced,
varying from the deep growl of distant thunder to
those loud and explosive bursts which rattle in
quick succession from clouds immediately over our
headS. The operator soon acquires great power
over this instrument, so as to be able to produce
from it any intensity and character of sound that
may be required. The same effect may be produced
by sheets of tin-plate, and by thin plates of mica;
but, on account of their small size, the sound is
shorter and more acute. In modem exhibitions an
admirable imitation of lightniug is produced by
throwing the powder of rosin, or the dust of lyco-
podium, through a flame; and the rattling showers
of rain which accompany these meteors are well
imitated by a well-regulated shower of peas.
The principal pieces of acoustic mechanism used
by the ancients were speaking or singing heads,
which were constructed for the purpose of repre-
senting tht gods, or of uttering oracular responses.
AIDong these, the speaking head of Orpheus, which
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPBAKING AND SINGINQ IIBADS. Hit
uttered its 'respolll!es at Lesbos, ia one of the moet
famous. It was celebrated not only throughout
Greece, but even in Persia; and it had the credit of
predicting, in the equivocal language of the hea-
then oracles, the bloody dellth which terminate&
the expedition of Cyrus the Great into Scythia.
Odin, the mighty magician of the north, who im-
ported iuto Scandinavia the magical arts ofthe east,
possessed a speaking head, said to be that of the
sage Minos, which he had enchased in gold, and
which uttered re~ponses that had all the authority
of a divine revelation. The celebrated mechanic
Gerbert, who filled the papal chair A. D. 1000,
under the name of Sylvester II., constructed a
speaking head of brass. Albertus Magnus ia aaid
to have executed a head iu the thirteenth century,
which not only moved, but spoke. It was made of
earthenware, and Thomas Aquinas is said to have
been so terrified when he saw it, that he broke it
in pieces, upon which the mechanist exclaimed,
"There goes the labouroftlrirty years."
It baa been supposed by some authors, that in
the ancient speaking-machines the deception is
effected by means of ventriloquism, the voice issu-
ing from the juggler himself; but it ia more pro-
bable that the sound was conveyed by pipea from •
person in another apartment to the mouth of the
figure. Lucian, indeed, expressly informs us, that
the impostor Alexander made his figure ofJEscula-
pius speak, by transmitting his voice through the
gullet of a crane to the mouth of the statue; and
that this method was general, appears from a pas-
sage in Theodoretus, who assures us, that in the
fourth century, when Bishop Theophilus broke to
o''""' ,,Coogle
~60 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
pieces the statues at Alexandria, he found some
which were l10llow, and which were so placed
against a wall, that the priest could conceal him-
self behind them, and address the ignorant spec-
tators through their mouths.
Even in modem times; speaking-machines have
been constructed on this principle. The figure is
frequently a mere head placed upon a hollow
pedestal, which, in order to promote the deception,
contains a pair of bellows, a sounding-board, a
cylinder and pipes supposed to represent the organs
of speech. In other cases these are dispensed with,
and a simple wooden head utters its sounds through
a speaking trumpet. At the court of Charles II.
this deception was exhibited with great effect by
one Thomas Irson, an Englishman; and when the
astonishment had become very general, a popish
priest was discovered by one of the pages in an ad-
joining apartment. The questions had been pro-
posed to the wooden figure by whispering into its
ear, and this learned personage had answered them
all with great ability, by speaking through a pipe
in the same language in which the questions were
proposed. Professor Beckmann informs us that
children and women were generally concealed
•either in the juggler's box or in the adjacent
apartment, and that the juggler gave them every
assistance by means ofsigns previouslyagreed upon.
When one of these exhibitions was shown at Got-
tingen, the Professor was allowed, on th{! promise
of secrecy, to witness the process of deception. He
saw the assistant in another room, standing before
the pipe-with a card in his hand, upon which the
signs agreed upon had been marked, and he had
o''""' ,,Coogle
THE INVISIBLE GIRL. 161
been introduced so privately into the house that
even the landlady was ignorant of hi11 being there.
An exhibition of the very same kind has been
brought forward in our own day, under the name
of the Invisible Girl; and as the mechai1ism em-
ployed was extremely ingenious, and is well fitted
to convey an idea of this class of deceptions, we
shall give a detailed description of it.
The machinery, as constructed by M. Charles,
is shown in Fig. 37 in perspective, and a plan of
Fig. 37.
it in Fig. 38. The four upright posts A, A, A, A,
are united at top by a cross rail B, B, and by two
similar rails at bottom. Four bent wires a, a, a, a,
proceeded from the top of these posts, and termi-
nated at c. A hollow copper ball M, ahout a foot
in dittmeter, was suspended from these wires by
• four slender ribands b, b, b, b, and into the copper
ball were fixed the extremities of four trumpets
T, T, T, T, with their mouths outwards.
'·
o''""' ,,Coogle
lU LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
Fig. 38.
The app~ratus now described was all that was
visible to the spectator; and though fixed in one
spot, yet it had the appearance of a piece of se-
parate machinery, which might have occupied any
other part of the room. When one of the spec-
tators was requested by the exhibitor to propose
some question, he did it by speakiug into one of
the trumpets at T. An appropriate answer was
then returned from all the trumpets, and the
sound issued with sufficient intensity to be heard
by an ear applied to any of them, and yet it was
so weak that it appeared to come from a person of
very diminutive size. Hence the sound was sup-
posed to come from an invisible girl, tho~gh the
real speaker was a full-grown woman. The invi-
sible lady conversed in different languages, sang
beautifully, and made the most lively and appro-
priate remarks on the persons in the room.
This exhibition was obviously far more wonder-
ful than the speaking heads which we have de-
scribed, as the latter invari~bly communicated
with a wall, or with a pedestal through whic.~
o''""' ,,Coogle
THE lNVISIHLE GIRL, 163.
pipes could be carried into the next apartment.
But the baH M and its trumpets communicated
with nothing through which sound could be con-
veyed. The spectator satisfied himself by exami-
nation that the ribands b, b,· were real ribands,
which concealed nothing, and which could cqnv~
no sound; and as he never conceived that the
ordinary ,piece of frame-work A B could be of
auy·other use ,than its apparent one of supporting
the:ttphere M, and defending it from the spectators,
he -.was ltlft in utter amazem~nt respecting the
origin of the sound, and his surprise was increased
by the difference between the sounds which_were
uttered and those ofordinary speech.
Though the spectators were thus deceived by
their own reasoning, yet the process of deception
was a very simple one. In two of. the horizontal
railings A, A, Fig. 38, opposite the trumpet
mouths T, there was an aperture communicating
with a pipe or tube which went to the vertical
post B, and descending it, as shown at T A A,
Fig. 39, went beneath the floor f f in the direc-
tion p, p, and entered the apartment N• where
the invisible lady sat. On the side of the parti-
tion about It, there was a small hole through.
which the lady saw what was going on in the
exhibition-room. and communications were no
doubt made to her by signals from the person
who attended the machine. When one of the
spectators asked a question oy speaking into one.
of the trumpets T, the sound was reflected from
the mouth ofthe trumpet back to the aperture at
A, in the lhmizontal rail, Fig. 38, and was die-.
~netly e<uweyed along the cloaed tube into the
i.2
o''""' ,,Coogle
164 LETTERS ON NATURAL 'MAGIC.
Fig. 39.
apartment N. In like manner the answer issued
from the aperture A, and being reflected back to
the ear of the spectator by the trumpet, he heard the
sounds with that change of character which they
receive when transmitted through a tube and then
reflected to the ear.
The surprise of the auditors was greatly in-
creased by the circumstance, that an answer was
returned to questions put in a whisper, and also
by the conviction that nobody but a person in the
middle of the audience could observe the circum-
stances to which the invisible figure frequently
adverted.
Although the performances of speaking heads
were generally effected by the methods now de-
scribed, yet there is reason to think that the ven-
triloquist sometimes presided at the exhibition,
and deceived the audience by his extraordinary
powers of illusion. There is no species of decep-
tion more irresistible in its effects than that which
arises from the uncertainty with which we judge
of the direction and distance of sounds. Every
o''""' ,,Coogle
•
ILLUSIONS OF SOUND. 165
person must have noticed how a sound in their
ovm ears is often mistaken for some loud noise
moderated by the distance from which it is sup-
posed to come; and _the sportsman must have
frequently been surprised at the existence of mu- '
sical sounds humming remotely in the extended
heath, when it was only the wind sounding in the
barrel of his gun. The great proportion of ap-
paritions that haunt old castles and apartments
associated with death e;Jist only in the sounds
which accompany them. The imagination even
of the boldest inmate of a place hallowed by su-
perstition, will transfer some trifling sound near
his own person to a direction and to a distance
very different from the truth, and the sound which
otherwise might have no peculiar complexion will
derive another character from its new locality.
Spurning the idea of a supernatural origin, he de-
termines to unmask the spectre, and grapple with.
it in its den. All the inmates of the house are.
found to be asleep-even the quadrupeds are in
their lair-there is not a breath of wind to ruflle-
the lake that reflects through the casement the
reclining crescent of the night; and the massive
walls in which he is inclosed forbid the idea that
he has been disturbed by the warping of pan-
nelling or the bending of partitions~ His search
is vain ; and h~ remains master of his own 11ecret,
till he has another opportunity of investigation.
The same sound again disturbs him, and, modified
probably by his own position at the time, it may
perhaps appear to come in a direction slightly dif-
ferent from the last. His searches are resumed,
and he is again disappointed. If this incident
o''""' ,,Coogle
}'66 LE'I:TERS ON NATUJl.AL MAGIC,
should' recur night after night with the same
result-if the sound should appetr to depend
upon his own motions, or be any how associated
with himself, with his present feelings, or with his
past history, his personal courage will give way; a
superstitious dread, at which he himself perhaps
laughs, will seize his mind; and he will rather
believe that the sounds have a supernatural origin;
than -t_hat they could continue to issue from a spot
where he knows there is no natural cause for their
production.
I have had occasion to have personal knowledge
of a case much stronger than that which has now
been put. A gentleman, devoid of all superstitious
feelings, and living in a house free from any
gloomy associations, heard night after night ~n
his bed-room a singular noise, unlike any ordinary
sound to which he was accustomed. He had slept
in the same room for years without hearing it,
and he attributed it at first to some change of cir-
cumstances in the roof or in the walls of the room,
but after the strictest examination no cause could
be found for it. It occurred only once in the
night; it was heard almost every night, with few
interruptions. It was over in an instant, and it
never took place till after the gentleman had gone
to bed. It was always distinctly heard by his
companion, to whose time of going to bed it
had no relation. It depended on the gentleman
alone, and it followed him into another apartment
with another bed, on the opposite side of the
house. Accustomed to such investigations, he
made the most diligent but fruitless search into its
cause. The consideration that the sound had a
o''""' ,,Coogle
VENTRlLOQUlSM EXPLAINED. 167
special reference to him alone, operated upon his
imagination, and he did not scruple to acknow-
ledge that the recurrence of the mysterious sound
produced a superstitious feeling at the moment.
Many months afterwards it was found that the
sound arose from the partial opening of the door
of a wardrobe which was within a few feet of the
gentleman's head, and which had been taken into
the other apartment. This.wardrobe was almost
always opened before he retired to bed, and the
door being a little too tight, it gradually forced
itself open with a sort of dull sound, resembling
the note of a drum. As the door had only started
half an inch out of its place, its change of position
never attracted attention. The sound, indeed,.
seemed to come in a different direction, and from
a greater distance.
When sounds so mysterious in their origin are
heard by persons predisposed to a belief in the
marvellous, their influence over the mind must be
very powerful: An inquiry into their origin, if it
is made at, all, will be made more in the hope of
confirming than of removing the original impres-
sion, and the unfortunate victim of his own fears
will also be the willing dupe of his own judgment.
This uncertainty with respect to the direction of
·sound is the foundation ofthe art of ventriloquism.
Ifwe place ten men in a row at such a distance
from us that they are included in the angle within
which we cannot judge of the direction of sound,
and if in a calm day each of them speaks in suc-
cession, we shall not be able with closed ~),Yes to
determine from which of the ten men any of the
sounds proceeds, and we shall be incapable of per-
o''""' ,,Coogle
168 LETTERS ON NATURAL J.IAGIC.
ceiving that there is any difference in the direction
of the sounds emitted by the two outermost. If a
man and a child are placed within the same angle,
and if the man ~;peaks with the accent of a child
without any corresponding motion in his mouth or
face, we shall necessarily believe that the voice
comes from the child; nay, if the child is so dis-
tant from the man that the voice actually appears
to us to come from the man, we shall still continue
in the belief that the child is the speaker ; and this
conviction would acquire additional strength if the
child favoured the deception, by accommodating
its features and gestures to the words spoken by
the man. So powerful, indeed, is the influence of
this deception-, that if a jack-ass, placed near the
man, were to open its mouth, and shake its head
responsi\'e to the words uttered by his neighbour,
we should rather believe that the ass spoke than
that the sounds proceeded from a person whose
mouth was shut, and the muscles of whose face
were in perfect repose. If our imagination were
even directed to a marble statue or a_ lump of in-
animate matter, as the source from which we were
to expect the sounds to issue, we would still be
deceived, and would refer the sounds even to these
lifeless objects. The illusion would be greatly
promoted, if the voice were totally different in its
tone and character from that ofthe ma)\from whom
it really comes; and if he occasionally speak in his
own full and measured voice, the belief will be irre-
sistible that the assumed voice proceeds from the
· quadruped or from the inanimate object.
When the sounds which are required to proceed
from any given object are such as they are ac-
o''""' ,,Coogle
VENTRILOQUISM EXP-LAINED. 169
tually calculated to yield, the proce1s o~ deception
is extremely easy; and it may be successfully exe-
cuted, even if the angle between the real and the
supposed direction of the sound is much greater
than the angle of uncertainty. Mr. Dugald Stew-
art has stated some cases in which deceptions of
this kind were very perfect. He mentions his
having seen a person who, by countetfeiting the
gesticulations of a performer on the violin, while
he imitated the music by his voice, riveted the-
eyes of his audience on the instrument, though
every sound they heard proceeded from his own
mouth. The late Savile Carey, who imitated the
whistling of the wind through a narrow chink, told
Mr. Stewart that he had frequently practised this
deception in the corner of a coffee-house, and that
he seldom failed to see some of the company rise
to examine the tightness of the windows, while
others, more intent on their newspapers, contented
themselves with putting on their hats and button-
ing their coats~ Mr. Stewart likewise mentions
an exhibition formerly common in some of the
continental theatres, where a performer on the
stage displayed the dumb·show of singing with
his lips and eyes and gestures, w'hile another per-
son unseen supplied the music with his voice.
The deception in tbis case he found to be at first
so complete as to impose upon the nicest ear and
the quickest eye; but in the progress of the en-
tertainment, he became distinctly sensible of the
impo~ition, and sometimes wondered that it should
have misled him for a moment. In this case there
can be no doubt that the deception was at first
the work of the imagination, and was not sus-
o''""' ,,Coogle
!10 LBTTBB.S ON N"ATUKAL lii'AGIC,
tained by the acoustic principle_
. The real and the
mock singer were too distant, and when the in-
fluence of the imagination subsided, the true direc-
tion of the sound was discovered·. This detection
of the imposture, however, may have arisen from
another cause. If the mock singer happened to
ehange the position of his head, while the real
singer made no corresponding change in his voice,
the attentive spectator would at once notice this
incongruity, and discover the imposition.
In many of the feats of ventriloquism the per-
former contrives, under some pretence or other; to
conceal his face, but ventriloquists of great dis-
tinction, such as M. Alexandre, practise their art
without any such concealment.
Ventriloquism loses its distinctive character if
its imitations are not performed by a voice from
the belly. The voice, indeed, does not actually
come from that region; but when the ventriloquist
utters sounds from the l~rynx without moving the
muscles of his face, he gives them strength by a
powerful action of the abdominal muscles. Hence
he speaks by means of his belly, although the
throat is the real source from whence the sounds
proceed. Mr. Dugald Stewart has doubted the
fact, that ventriloquists possess the power of fetch-
ing: a voice from within : he cannot conceive what
aid could be derived from such an extraordinary
power; and he considers that the imagination·,
when seconded by such powers of imitation as
some mimics possess, is quite sufficient to account
for all the phenomena of ventriloquism which he
has heard. This opinion, however, is strongly
opposed by the remark made to Mr. Stewart him-
o''""' ,,Coogle
Vl!NTRI.tOQUISM BXPLAIKBD. 171
self by a ventriloquist, " that his art would be
perfect, if it were possible only to speak distinctly
without any movement of the lips at all." Buf,.in-
dependent of this admission, it is a matter ofabso·
lute certainty, that this internal power is exercised
by the true ventriloquist. In the account which
the Abbtl Chapelle has given of the performances
of M. St. Gille and Louis Brabant, he distinctly
states that M. St. Gille appeared to be absolutely
mute while he was exercising his art, and that no
· change in his countenance could be discovered"'.
He affirms, also, that the countenance of Louis
Brabant exhibited· no change,. and that his lips
were close and inactive. M. Richerand, who at•
tentively watched the performances of M. Fitz- •
James, assures us that during his exhibition there
was a distention in the epigastric region, and that
he could not long continue the exertion without
futigue.
The influence over the human mind which the
ventriloquist derives from 'the skilful practice of
his art is greater than that which is exercised by
any other species of conjuror. The ordinary ma-
gician requires his theatre, his accomplices, aud
the instruments of his art, and he enjoys but a
local sovereignty within the precincts ·of his own
magic circle. The ventriloquist, on the contrary,
has the supern11tural always at his command. In
the open fields as well as in the crowded city, in the
private apartment as well as in the public hall, he
can summon up innumerable spirits ; and though
the persons of his fictitious dialogue are not visible
to the eye, yet they are unequivocally present to
• Edinburgh Journe.l of Seienct>, No. xviii. p. 254. J
o''""' ,,Coogle
172 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
the imagination of his auditors, as if they had
been shadowed forth in the silence of a spectral
form. In order to convey some idea of the influ-
ence of this illusion, I shall mention a few well-
authenticated cases of successful ventriloquism.
M. St. Gille, a grocer of St. Germain en Lay,
whose performances have been recorded by the
Abbe de la Chapelle, had occasion to shelter
himself from a storm in a neighbouring convent,
where the monks were in deep mourning for a
much-esteemed member of their eommunity who
had been recently buried. While lamenting over
the tomb of their deceased brother the slight ho-
nours which had been paid to his memory, a voice
• was suddenly heard to issue from the roof of the
choir bewailing the condition of the deceased in
purgatory, and reproving the brotherhood for their
want of zeal. The tidings of this supernatural
event brought the whole brotherhood to the church.
The voice from above repeated its lamentations
and reproaches, and the whole convent fell upon
their faces, and vowed to make a reparation of their
error. They accordingly chanted in full choir a
de profundus, during the intervals of which the
spirit of the departed monk expressed his ·satis-
faction at their pious exercises. The prior after-
wards inveighed against modern scepticism on the
subject of apparitions, and M. St. Gille had great
difficulty in convincing the fraternity that the whole
was a deception.
On another occasion, a commission ofthe Royal
Academy of Sciences at Paris, attended by several
persons of the highest rank, met at St. Germain en
Lay to witness the performances of M. St. Gille
o''""' ,,Coogle
VENTRILOQUISM O.P Jl, BRABANT, ETC. 173
The real object of their meeting was purposely
withheld from a lady of the party, who was informed
that an ai.lrial spirit had lately established itself in
the neighbourhood, and that the object of the as-
sembly was to investigate the matter. When the
party had sat down to dinner in the open air, the
spirit addressed the lady in a voice which seemed
to come from above their heads, from the surface
of the ground at a great distance, or from a consi-
derable depth under her feet. Having been thus
addressed at intervals during two hours, the lady
was firmly convinced of the existence of the spirit,
and could with difficulty be undeceived.
Another ventriloquist, J~ouis Brabant, who had
been valet de chambre to Francis 1., turned his •
powers to a more profitable account. Having fallen
in love with a rich and beautiful heiress, he was
rejected by her parents as an unsuitable match for
their daughter. On· the death of her father, Louis
paid a visit to the widow, and he had no sooner
entered the house than she heard the voice of her
· deceased hu,11band addressing her from above,
" Give my daughter in marriage to Louis Brabant,
who is a man of large fortune and excellent cha-
racter. I endure the inexpressible torments of
purgatory for having refused her to him. Obey
this admonition, and give everlasting repose to the
soul of your poor husband." This awful com-
mand could not be resisted, and the widow an-
nounced her compliance with it.
As our conjuror, !towever, required money for
the completion of his marriage, he resolved to work
upon the fears of one Cornu; an old banker at
Lyons, who had amassed immense wealth by usury
o''""' ,,Coogle
174 LETTERS ON NATUllAL MAGIC.
and ator:tion. Haviug obtained an interview with
the miser, he introduced the subjects of demons
and spectres and the torments of purgatory; and
during an interval of silence, the voice of the
miaer's deceased father was heard complaining of
his dreadful situation in purgatory, and calling
upon his son to ·reacue him from his sufferings by
enabling Louis Brabant to redeem the Christians
that were enslaved by the Turks. The awe-struck
miser was also threatened with eternal damnation
if he did not thus expiate his own sins ; but such
was the grasp that the banker took of his gold,
that the ventriloquitlt was obliged to pay him ano-·
ther visit. On this occ~ion, not only his father
but all his deceased rela\iv.es appealed to him in
llehalf of his own soul a~d theirs ; and such was
the loudness of their complaints, that the spirit of
the banker was subdued, and he gave the ventrilo-
quist ten tnousand crowns to liberate the Christian
captives. When the miser was afterwards unde-.
ceived, he is said to have been ·so mortified that
he died of vexation.
The ventriloquism of the.nineteenth century
made great additions to their art, and the perform-
ancea of M. Fitz,James and M. Alexandre, which
must have been seen by many of our countrymen,
were far superior to those of their predecessors.
Besides the art of speaking by the muscles of the
throat and the abdomen;......Uthout moving those .of
the face, these artists had not only studied with.
8feat diligeiUle.and sucoees the modifications which
sounds of all kinds undergo from.distance, .bstruc-
tions, and other causes, but had acquired the art of
imit~ng them in the lrlghe&t pel1fection. 'J.llie
o''""' ,,Coogle
BSKIIU.UX VENTRILOQUISTS, 171
ventriloquist was therefore able to carry on a dia-
logue in which the dramatis voces, as they may be
called, were numerous; and when on the outside
of an apartment, he could personate a mob with ite
infinite variety of noise and vociferation. Their in-
fluence over an audience was still further extended
by a singular power over the muscles of the body.
Mr. Fitz-James actually succeeded in making the
opposite or corresponding.muscles act differently
from each other; and while one side of his face
was merry and laughing, the other was full of sor·
row and in tears. At one moment he was tall.
thin, and melancholic, and after pausing behind
a screen, he came out "bloated with obesity and
staggering with fulness." M. Alexandre p.ossesaed
the same power over his face and figure ; and 110
striking was the contrast of two of these forms.
that an excellent sculptor, Mr. Joseph, has perp~
tuated them in marble.
This new acquirement of the ventriloquist en•
abled him, in his own single person and with his
own single voice, to represent upon the stage a
dramatic composition which would have required
the assistance of several actors. Although only
one character in the piece could be seen at the
!!lame time, yet they all appeared during its perform-
ance, and .the change offace and figure on the part
of the ventriloquist was so perfect, that his personal
identity could not be recognized in the dramaf.is
persontl!. This deception was rendered i!till more
complete by a particular construction of the dreeses
which enabled the performer to reappear in a new
character after an interval so short that the audi-
ence neceBSarily believed that itwas another persoll.
o''""' ,,Coogle
-...
176 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
It is a curious circumstance that Captain J,yon
found among the Eskimaux of Igloolik ventrilo-
quists of no mean skill. There is much rivalry
among the professors of the art, who do not ex-
pose each otlier's secrets, and their exhibitions
derive great importance from the rarity of their
occurrence. The following account of one of them
is so interesting that we shall give the whole of it
in Captain Lyon's words :-
" Amongst our lgloolik acquaintances were two
females and a few male wizards, of whom the prin-
cipal was Toolemak. This person.age was cunning
andintelligent; and, whether professionally,or from
his skill in the chase, but perhaps from both rea-
sons, was considered by all the tribe as a man of
importance. As I invariably paid great deference
to his opinion on all subjects connected with his
calling, he freely communicated to me his superior
knowledge, and did not scruple to allow of my
being present at his interviews with Tornga, or his
patron spirit. In consequence of this, I took an
early opportunity of requesting my friend to ex-
hibit his skill in my cabin. His old wife was with
him, and by much·flattery and an accidental dis-
play of a glittering knife and some beads, she
assisted me in obtaining my J"equest. All light
excluded, our sorcerer began chanting to his wife
with great vehemence, and she in return answered
by singing the Amna-aya, which was not discon-
"tinued during the whole ceremony. As far as I
could hear, he afterwards began turning himself
rapidly round, and in a loud, powerful voice vocife-
rated for Tornga with great impatience, at the
eame time blowing and snorting like a walrus. His
o''""' ,,Coogle
BSKIIIAUX VENTRILOQUISTS. 1'/7
noise, impatience, and agitation increased every
moment, and he at length seated himself on the
deck, varying his tones, and making a rustling
with his clothes. Suddenly the voice seemed
smothered, and was so managed as to sound as if
retreating beneath the deck, each momentbecoming
more distant, and ultimately giving the idea of
being many feet below the cabin, when it ceased
entirely. His wife now, in answer to my queries,
informed me very seriously, that he had dived, and
,that. he would send up Tomga. Accordingly, in
about half a minute, a distant blowing was heard
very slowly approaching, and a voice, which dif-
fered from that at first heard, was·at times mingled
with the blowing, until at length both sounds be-
came distinct, andthe old woman informed me that
Tomga was come to answer my questions. I ac-
cordingly asked several questio~s of the sagacious
spirit, to each of which inquiries I received an
answer by two loud claps on the deck, which I was
given to understand were favourable.
"A very hollow, yet powerful voice, certainly
much different from the tones of Toolcmak, now
chanted for some time, and a strange jumble of
hisses, groans, shouts, and gabblings like a turkey
succeeded in rapid order. The old woman sang.
with increased energy,; and as I took it for granted
that this was all intended to astonish the Kabloona,
I cried repeatedly that I was very much afraid.
This, as I expected, added fuel to the fire, until
the poor immortal, exhausted by its own might,
asked leave to retire. .
" The voice gradually sunk from our hearing as
at first, and a very indistinct hissing succeeded ;
II
o''""' ,,Coogle
. 178 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
in its advance it sounded like the tone produced
by the wind on the bass chord of an 1Eolian harp.
This was soon changed to a rapid hiss like that of
a rocket, and Toolemak with a yell announced his
return. I had held my breath at the first distant
hissing, and twice exhausted myself, yet our con-
juror did not once respire, and even his returning
and powerful yell was uttered without a previous
stop or inspiration of air.
" Light being admitted, ourwizard, as might be
expected, was in a profuse perspiration, and cer-
tainly much exhausted by his exertions, which had
continued for at least half an hour. We now ob-
served a couple of bunches, each consisting of two
stripes of white deer-skin, and a long piece of
.sinew, attached to the back of his coat. ·These we
had not seen before, and were informed that they
had been sewn on byTomga while he was below*."
Captain Lyon had the good fortune to witness
another of Toolemak's exhibitions, and he was
much struck with the wonderful steadiness of the
wizard throughout the whole performance, which
lasted an hour and a half. He did not once appear
to move, for he was so close to the skin behind
which Captain Lyon sat, that if he had done so he
must have perceived it. Captain Lyon did not
hear the least rustlingof his clothes,. or even dis-
tinguish his breathing, although his outcries were
made with great exertiont.
• Private Journal of Captain G. P. Lyon. Lond.l824.
pp. 3a8, 361.
t ld, p. 366. •
o''""' ,,Coogle
MUSICAL AND HARMONIC SOUNDS. 11f
LEITER VIII.
Mu1ical and harmonic IOWitU ~xplaind- Powwof b~dilfg
glaU(I with the tJoice-MIIrical &ounth fron• the tJibralio•
of a column ofair-d of1olid Bodi(I-Kakidopho-
Singular acoUiticfigure• produced on •and laid on tJibral•
ing plat(l of glu11-and on 1trdched membrane1-JTibrt~o
tion of flat ruler• and cylinder• of gla11-Productillt1 of
.•ilence from two 1ouncli-Production of darlme81from lwt~
lighiB-Erplanation of the1e aingular e.ffect•-4COUitit:
automaton-Droz'• bleating &l.eep-llfaillardet'l linging
bird-JTaucanaon'• jl11te·player-Hi• pipe and tabor player
-Baron Kempelen'• talking·engine-Kratzemtein'1 •petU-
ing·machi~-Mr. Willi•'• reuarche•.
AMoNG the discoveries of modem science there
are few more remarkable than those which relate
to the production of harmonic sounds. We are
all familiar with the effects of musical instruments»
from the deep-toned voice of the organ to the
wiry shrill of the Jew's harp. We sit intranced
under their 'magical influence, whether the ear is
charmed with the melody of their sounds, or the
heart agitated by the sympathies which they rouse.
But though we may admire their external form,.
and the skill of the artist who constructed them~
we never think of inquiring into the cause of such
extraordinary combinations.
Sounds of all kinds are conveyed to the organ
of hearing through the air; and if this element
were to be destroyed, all nature would be buried
in the deepest silence. Noises of every variety,
111:2
o''""' ,,Coogle
)80 LBTTER!II ON NATURAL lUQIC.
whether they are musical or discordant, high or
low, move through the air of our atmosphere at
the surface of the earth with a velocity of 1090
feet in a second, or 765 miles per hour; but in
sulphurous acid gas sound moves only through
'751 feet in a second, while in hydrogen gas it
moves with the great velocity of 3000 feet. Along
fluid and solid bodies, its progress is still more
rapid. Through water it moves at the rate of
4708 feet in a second, through tin at the rate of
8175 feet, and through iron, glass, and some kinds
of wood, at the rate of 18,530 feet.
When a number of single and separate sounds
follow each other in rapid succession, they produce
a continued sound, in the same manner as a con~
tinuous circle of light is produced by whirling
round a burning stick before the eye. In order
that the sound may appear a single one to the ear,
nearly sixteen separate sounds must follow one
another every second. When these sounds are _
exactly similar, and recur at equal intervals, they
form a musical sound. In order io produce such
sounds from the air, it must receive at least sixteeu
equally distant impulses or strokes in a second.
The most common way of producing this tffect is
by a string or wire A B, Fig. 40, stretched between
the fixed points A, B. If this string is taken by
the middle and pulled aside, or if it is suddenly ·
struck, it will vibrate between its two fixed points,
as shown in the figure, passing alternately on each
side of i\s axis A B, the vibrations gradually dimi~
nishing by'the resistance of the air till the string is
brought to rest. Its vibrations, however, may be
kept up, by drawing a rosined fiddle-bow across
it, and while it is vibrating it will give out a sound
o''""' ,,Coogle
MUSICAL AND HA.IliiONIC SOUNDS. 181
corresponding to the rapidity of its vibrations, and
arising from the successive blows or impulsesgiven
Fig. 40•.
to the air by the string. This sound is called the
fundamental sound of the string, and its acuteness
or sharpness increases with the number of vibra-
tions which the string performs in a second.
Jf we now touch the vibrating f'tring A' B'
lightly with the finger, or with a feather at the
middle point C, Fig. 40, it will give out a more
acute but fainter sound than before, and ~bile the
extent of its vibrations is diminished, their fre-
quency is doubled. In like manner, if we touch
the string A" B", Fig. 40, at a point C, so that
A" C is one-third of A11 B", the note will be still
more acute, and correspond to thrice the number
of vibrations. All this might have been expected;
but the wonderful part of the experiment is, that
the vibrating string A' B' divides itself at C into
two parts A'C, CB', the part A'C vibrating round
A' and C as fixed points, and the part CB' round
C .11nd B , but always so that the part A' C is at
the same distance on the one side of the axis A'B'
o''""' ,,Coogle
•
182 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
as at Am C, while the part C B is on the other
side, as at C n B. Hence the point C, being al-
ways pulled by equal and opposite forces, remains
at rest as if it were absolutely fixed. This station-
ary point is called a node, and the vibrating por-
tions A' m C, C n B' loops. The very same is
true of the 11tring A'' B'', the points C and D
being stationary points; and upon the same prin- ·
ciple a string may be divided into any number of
vibrating portions. In order to prove that the
string is actually vibrating in these equal subdivi-
sions, we have only to place a pi~ce oflight paper
with a notch in it on different parts of the string.
At the nodes C and D it will remain perfectly at
rest, while at m or n in the middle of the loops it
will be thrown off or violently agitated.
The acute sounds given out by each of the vi-
brating portions are called harmonic sounds, and
they accompany the fundamental sound of the
string in the very same manner as we have already
seen that the eye sees the accidental or harmonic
colours while it is affecLed with the fundamental
colour.
The subdivision of the string, and consequently
the production of harmonic sounds, may be effected
without touching the string at all, and by means
of a sympathetic action conveyed by the air. If a
string A B, for example, Fig..40, is at rest, and
if a shorter string A'' C, one-third of its length,
.fixed at the two points A'' and C, is set vibrating
in the same room, the string A B will be set vi-
bf!lting in three loops like A'' B", giving out the
•arne harmonic sounds as the small string A" C.
It is owing to this property of sounding bodies
o''""' ,,Coogle
MUSICAL SOUNDS FROM VIBRATION OF AIR, 188.
that singers with great power of voice are able to
break into pieces a large tumbler glass, by-singing .
close to it its proper fundamental note; and it is from
the same sympathetic communication ofvibrations
that two pendulum clocks fixed to the same wall,
or two watches lying upon the same table, will
take the same rate of going, though they would
not agree with one another if placed in separate
apartments. Mr. Ellicott even observed that tqe
pendulum of the one clock will stop that of the
other, and that the stopped pendulum will after a
certain time resume its vibrations, and in its turn
stop the vibrations of the other pendulum. .
The production of musical sounds by the vibra-
tions of a column of air in a pipe is familiar to
every person, but the extraordinary mechanism by
which it is effected is known principally to philoso·
phers. A column of air in a pipe may be set vi-
brating by blowing over the open end of it, as is
done in Pan's pipes, or by blowing over a hole in
its side as in the flute, or by blowing through an
aperture called a reed, with a flexible tongue, as
in the clarionet. In order to understand the na-
ture of this vibration, let A B, Fig. 41, be a pipe
or tube, and let us place in it a spiral spring A B,
in which the coil or spire are at equal distances,
each end of the spiral being fixed to the end of
the tube. This elastic spring may be supposed to
represent the air in the pipe, which is of equal
density throughout. If we take hold of the spring
at m, and push the point m towards A and towards
B in succession, it will give us a good idea of the
vibration of an elastic column of air. When m is
pushed towards A, the spiral spring will be com-.
o''""' ,,Coogle
~
184 LJI:TTBRS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
pressed or condensed, as shown at m A, No.2, while
at the other end it will be dilated or rarefied, as
Fig.41.
shown at m B, and in the middle' of the tube it will
have the same degree of compression as in No. 1.
When the string is·drawn to the other erid of the
tube B, the spring will be, as in No.3, condensed
at the end B, and dilated at the end A. Now
when a column of air vibrates in a pipe A B, the
whole of it rushes alternately from B to A, as in
No.2, and from A to Bas in No. 3, being con-
densed at the end A, No.2, and dilated or rarefied
at the end B, while in No.3 it is rarefied at A and
condensed at B, preserving its natural density at
the middle point between A and B. In the case
of the spring the ends A B are alternately pushed
outwards and pulled inwards by the spring, the
end A being pushed outwards in No. 2, and B
pulled inwards, while in No.3 A is pulled inwards
and B pushed outwards. ·
That the air vibrating in·a pipe is actually in the
state now described, may be shown by boring small
holes in the pipe, and putting over them pieces of
Jl fine membrane. The membrane opposite to the
middle part between A and B, where the particles
o''""' ,,Coogle
MUSICAL SOUNDS FROM VIBR.UION OP' AIR. 185
of the air have the greatest motion, will be vio• ·
lently agitated, while at points nearer the ends A
and B it will be less and less affected.
Let us now suppose two pipes A B, B C, to be
joined together as in Fig. 42, and to be separated
by a fixed partition at B ; and let a spiral spring
be fixed in each. Let the spring A B be now
pushed to the end A, while the spring B C is
pushed to C, as in No. 1, and back again, as in
Fig. 42.
~~ ~IDTifliX)ooS
o
omi
N·{Oo
oooiTffifl]~ooooo a
A B C
No. 2, but always in opposite directions; then
it is obvious that the partition B is in No.1 drawn
in opposite directions towards A and towards C,
and always with forces equal to each other: that
is, when B is drawn slightly towards A, which it
is at the beginning of the motion, it is also
drawn slightly towards C; and when it is drawn
forcibly towards A, as it is at the end of the mo-
tion of the -spring, it is also drawn forcibly towards .
C. If the partition B, therefore, is moveable, it
will still remain fixed during the opposite excur-
sions of the spiral springs; nay,, if we remove the
partition, and hook the end of one spiral spring
to the end of the other, the node or point of junc-
tion will remain stationary during the movements
of the springs, because at every instant that point
is drawn by equal and opposite forces. If three,
o''""' ,,Coogle
.-'
186 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
fotJr, or five spiral springs are joined in a similar
manner, we may conceive them all vibrating be-
tween their nodes in the same manner.
Upon the very 8ame principles we may conceive
a long column of air without partitions dividing
itself into two, three, or four smaller columns, each
of which will vib,rate between its nodes in the same
manner as the spiral spring. At the middle point
of each small vibrating column, the air will be of
its natural density, like that of the atmosphere;
while at the nodes B, &c. it will be in a state of
condensation and rarefaction alternately.
If, when the air is vibrating in one column in
the pipe A B, as in Fig. 41, No.2, 3, we con-
ceive a hole made in the middle, the atmospheric
air will not rush in to disturb the vibration, because
the air within the pipe and without it has exactly
the same density. Nay, if, instead of a single
hole, we were to cut a ring out of the pipe at the
middle point, the column would vibrate as before.
But if we bore a hole between the middle and one
of the ends, where the vibrating column must be
either in a state of condensation or rarefaction,
the air must either rush out or rush in, in order
to establish the equilibrium. The air opposite the
hole will then be brought to the state of the exter-
nal air, like that in the middle of the pipe; it will
become the middle of a vibrating column; and the
whole column-of air, instead of vibrating as one,
will vibrate as two columns, each column vibrat-
ing with twice the velocity, and yielding harmonic
sounds along with the fundamental sound of the
whole columns, in the same manner as we have
~lready explained with regard to vibrating strings.
o''""' ,,Coogle
VIBRATION OF SOLID BODIES. 187
By opening other holes we may subdivide a vibrat-
ing column into any number of smaller vibrating
columns. The holes in flutes, clarionets, &c. are
made for this purpose. When they are all closed
up, the air vibrates in one column; and by opening
and shutting the different holes in successit>n, the
number of vibrating columns is increased or dimi-
nished at pleasure, and consequently the harmonic
sounds.will vary in a similar manner.
Curious as these phenomena are, they are still
surpassed by those which are exhibited during the
vibration of solid bodies. A rod or bar of metal
or glass may be made to vibrate either longitudi-
nally or laterally.
An iron rod will vibrate longitudinally, like a
column of air, if we strike it at one end in the di-
rection of its length; or rub it in the same direction
with a wetted finger, and it will admit the same
fundamental note as a column of air ten or eleven
times as long, because sound moves so much faster
in iron than in air. When the iron rod is thus
vibrating along its length, the very same changes
which we have shown in Fig. 41, as produced in a
spiral spring, or in a column of air, take place in
the solid metal. All its particles move alternately
towards A and towards B, the metal being in the
one case condensed at the end to which the par-
ticles move, and expanded at the end from which
they move, and retaining its natural density in the
middle of the rod. If we now hold this rod in the
middle, by the finger and thumb lightly applied;
and rub it in the middle either of A B or B C with
a piece of cloth sprinkled with powdered rosin, or
with a well-rosined fiddle-bow drawn across the
o''""' ,,Coogle
188 LETTERS ON NA:TU.RAL :MAGlC.
rod, it will divide itself into two vibrating portions
A B, B C, each of which will vibrate, as shown in
Fig. 42, like the two adjacent columns of air, the
section of the rod, or the particles which compose
that section at B, being at perfect rest. By hold-
ing the rod at auy intermediate point between A
and B, so that the distance from A to the finger
and thumb is one-third, one-fourth, one-fifth, &c.
of the whole length A C, and rubbing one of the
divisions in the middle,. the rod will divide itself
into 3, 4, 5, &c. vibrating portions, and give out
corresponding harmonic sounds.
A rod of iron may be made to vibrate laterally
or transversely, by fixing one eud of it firmly, as in
a vice, and leaving the other free, or by having both
ends free or both fixed. When a rod, fixed at one
end and free at the other, is made to vibrate, its
mode of vibrating may be rendered evident to the
eye; and for the purpose of doing this, Mr. Wheat-
stone has contrived a curious instrument, called
the Kaleidoplwne, which is shown !n Fig. 43. It
FiQ. 43.
o''""' ,,Coogle
KALEIDOPHONE. 189
consists of a circular base of wood A B, about nine
inches in diameter and one inch thick, and having
four brass sockets firmly fixed into it at C, D, E,
and F. Into these sockets are screwed four vertical
steel rods C, D, E, and F, about thirteen or four-
teen inches long, one being a square rod, another
a bent cylindrical one, and the other two cylindrical
ones of different diameters. On the extremities of
these rods are fixed small quicksilvered glass beads,
Fig. 44.
o''""' ,,Coogle
190 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
either singly or in groups, so that wlien the in-
strument is placed iri the light of the sun or in that
of a lamp, bright images of the sun or candle are
seen reflected on each bead. If any of these rods
is set vibrating, these luminous images will fonn
continuous and returning curve lines in a state of
constant variation, each different rod giving curves
·of different characters, as shown in Fig. 44.
The Melodion, an instrument of great power,
embracing five octaves, operates by means of the
vibrations of metallic rods of unequal lengtfia,
fixed at one end and free at the other•. A narrow
and thin plate of copper ia screwed to the free
extremity of each rod, and at right angles to ita
length ; and its surface is covered with a small
piece of felt,. impregnated with rosin. This narrow
band is placed near the circumference of a revolv-
ing cylinder, and, by touching the key, it is made
to descend till it toucli.es tbe revolving cylinder,
and gives out it& aound. The sweetnesa and power
of this instrument are unrivalled ; and such i& ilie
· character of ita tunes, that peraons of a nervous
temperament are often entirely overpowered hy
ita effects.
The vibratioJl.B of plate& of metal or glasa of
variou& forms exhibit a aeries of the moat extra-
ordinary phenomena, which are capable of being
shown by v~ry aimple means. These phenomena
are diaplayed in an infinite variety of regular
figurea- assumed by aand or fine lycopedium pow-
der, strewed <n~er the eurfiace of the gliu!lt pla&:e.
ln ordeF to produce these ugnresrwe mu&t pinch
or damp· the plate at.oDe- e~more pliloa; ~,..._
• See- Jldi~Baeyclopaedia, Art•.Sir:iilllee,.CIIIiillitiia
i• VoL ~i. p. 563l
o''""' ,,Coogle
ACOtJSTlC FIGURES. 191
the sand is .strewed upon its 'surfaj:e, it is thrown
into vibrations by drawing a fiddle-bow over dif-
ferent parts of its circumference. The method of
damping or pinching plates is shown in Fig. 45.
In No. 1, a square plate of glass A B, ground
smooth at its edges, is pinched by the finger and
thumb. In No. 2, a circular plate is held by the
thumb against the top c of a perpendicular rod,
and damped by the fingers at two different points
of its circumference. In No. 3 it is damped at
three points of its circumference; c and d by the
thumb and finger, and at e by pressing it against
a fixed obstacle a b. By means of a clamp like
,that at No. 4, it may be damped at a greater num-
ber of points.
Fig. 4a.
~~
~
~.·a a N·~
e
a
,.
'
If we take a square plate of glass, such as that
shown in Fig. 46, No. 1, and, pinching it at its
centre, draw the fiddle-bow near one of its anglelf,
the sand will accumulate in the furm ofa cross, as
o''""' ,,Coogle
•
192 UTTJtRa ~'f.t NATURAL JlAGIC.
Fi9. 46.
EE~
WSj
A. » ll
shown in the figure, being thrown off the parts of
the plate that are in a state of vibration, and set-
tling in the nodes or parts which are at rest. If
the bow is drawn across the middle of one of the
edges, the sand will accumulate as in No.2. If
the plate is pinched at N, No. 3, and the bow ap-
plied at F and perpendicular to A B, the sand will
arrange itself in three parallel lines, perpendicular
to a fourth passing through F and N. But if the
point N, where it is pinched, is a little farther from
the edge than in No. 3, the parallel lines will
change into curves as in No: 4.
If the plate of glal!s is circular, and pinched at
its centre, and also at a point of its circumference,
and if the bow i11 applied at a point 45° from the
last point, the figure of the sand will be a11 in
Fig. 47, No. 1.. If with the 11ame plate, similarly
pinched, the bow ill drawn over a part 30° from
o''""' ,,Coogle
ACOUSTIC FIGURES, 193
the pinched point of the circumference, the sand
will form six radii as in No.2. When the centre
of the plate is left free, a different set of figures
is produced, as shown in No.3 and No.4. When
the plate is pinched near its edge, and the bow
applied 45° from the point pinched, a circle of
sand will pass through that point, and two dia-
meters of sand, at right angles to each other, will
be formed as in No. 3. When a point of the cir-
cumference is pressed against a fixed obstacle, and
the bow applied 30° from that point, the figure in
No. 4 is produced.
Fig. 47.
Nu. 1. No.2.
No.3. No.4.
If, in place of a solid plate, we strew the sand
over a stretched membrane, the sand will form it-
self into figures, even when the vibrations are com-
municated to the membrane through the air. In
N
194 LF.TTJ!:RS ON NATURAL 'M·AGIC.
order to make these experiments, we must stretch
a thin sheet of wet paper, such as vegetable paper,
over the mouth of a tumbler-glass with a footstalk,
and fix it to the edges with glue. Whell the paper
iB dry, a thin layer of dry sand is strewed upon its
surface·. If we place this membraneupon a table,
and hold immediately above it, and parallel to the
membrane, a plate of glass vibrating so as to give
any of tlte figures shown in Fig. 47, the sand
upon the membrane will imitate exactly the figure
upon the glass. If the glass plate, in place of
vibrating horizontally, is made to vibrate in an
inclined position, the figures on the membrane will
«:hange with.the inclination, and the sand will as-
sume the most curious arrangements. The figures
thus produced vary with the size of the membrane,
with its material, its tension, and its shape. When
the same figure occurs several times in succes-
sion, a breath upon the paper will change its de-
gree of tension, and produce an entirely new figure,
which, as the temporary moisture evaporates, will
return to the original figure, through a number of
intermediate ones. The pipe of an organ at the
distance of a few feet, or the notes of a flute at the
distance of halfa foot, will arrange the sand on the
membrane into figures which perpetually change
with the sound that is produced.
The manner in which flat rulers and cylinders
of glass perform their vibrations is very remark-
able. If a glass plate about twenty-seven inches
long, six-tenths of an inch broad, and six hun-
dredths of an inch thick, is held by the edges be-
tween the finger r.tnd thumb, and has its lower
surface, near either end, rubbed with apiece of wet
o''""' ,,Coogle
SIL&NCB FROM TWO SOUNDS. 195
cloth, sand laid upon its upper surface will arrange
itself in parallel lines at right angles to the length
of the plate. If the place of these lines is marked
with a dot of ink, and the other side of the glass
ruler is turned upwards, and the ruler made .t&
vibrate as before, the sand will now accumulate in
lines intermediate between the former lines, so that
the motions of one-half the thickness of the glau
ruler are precisely the reverse of those of the cor-
responding parts of the other half.
As these singular phenomena have not yet beell'
made available by the scientific conjuror, we must·
be satisfied with this brief notice of them ; but -
there is still one property of sound, which has its.
analogy also in light, too remarkable to be passed:
without notice. This property has more of the-
marvellous in it than any result within the wide
range of the sciences. 1'-UJO loud sound$ may be
made to produce silence, and two strong light1"
may he made to produce darkness ! ·
If two equal and similar strings, or the columntfl
of air in two equal and similar pipes, perform ex-
actly 100 vibrations in a second, they will pro-
duce each equal waves of sound, and these waves
will conspire in generating an uninterrupted sound~
double of either of the sounds, heard separately.
If the two strings or the two columns of air are
_not in unison, but nearly so, as in the case where
the one vibrates 100 and the other 101 times in a
. second, then at the first vibration the two sounds
will form one of double the strength of either; but
the one will gradually gain upon the other, till at
the fiftieth vibration it has gained halfa vibration
on the other. At this instantthe two sounds will
N2
o''""' ,,Coogle
)96 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL IHGIC.
destroy one another, and an interval of perfect
silence will take place. The sound will instantly
commence, and gradually increase till it becomes
loudest at the hundredth vibration, where the two
vibrations conspire in producing a sound double
of either. An interval of silence will again occur
at the !50th, 250th, 350th vibration, or every
second, while a sound of double the strength of
either will be heard at the 200th, 300th, and
400th vibration. When the unison is very defec-
tive, or when there is a great difference between
the number of vibrations which the two s~ngs or
columns of air perform in a second, the successive
sounds and intervals of silence resemble a rattle.
With a powerful orgsn, the effect of this experi-
ment is very fine, the repetition of the sounds woto
--wow-wow- representing the double sound
and the interval of silence' which arise from 'the
total extinction of the two separate sounds.
The phenomenon corresponding to this in the
case of light is perhaps still more surprising. If
a beam of.red light issues from a luminous point,
and falls upon the retina, we shall see distinctly
the luminous object-from which it proceeds; but
if another pencil of red light issues from another
luminous point,~anyhow situated, provided the dif-
ference between its distance and that of the other
luminous point from the point of the retina, on
which the first beam fell, is the 258th thousandth
part of an inch, or exactly twice, thrice, four times
&c., that distance; and if this second beam falls
upon the same point of the retina, the one light
will increase the intensity of the other, and the eye
will see twice as much light as when it received
...
o''""' ,,Coogle
DAJUtNESS FROM: TWO LIGHTS. 19J
only one of the beams separately. All this is no-
thing more than what might be expected from our
ordinary experience. But if the difference in the
distances of the two luminous points is only one-
half of the 258th thousandth part of an inch, or
It, 2t, 3}, 4t times that distance, the one light
will extinguish the otl&er and produce absolute
darkness. If the two luminous points are so
situated, that the difference of their distances from
the point of the retina is intermediate .between l
and It, or 2 and 2t, above the 258th thousandth
part of an inch, the intensity of the effect which
they produce will vary from absolute darkness to
double the intensity of either light. At I·h 2t,
3-1- times, &c., the 258th thousandth of an inch,
the intensity of the two combined lights will be
equal only to one of them acting singly. If the
lights, in place of falling upou the retina, fall
upon a sheet of wbite paper, the very same effect
will be produced, a black spot being produced in
the one case, and a bright white one in the other;
and intermediate degrees of brightness in interme-
diate cases. If the two lights are violet, the dif-
ference of distances at which the preceding phe·
nomena will be produced will be the I57th thou-
sandth part of an inch, and it will be interme-
diate between the 258th and the I57th thousandth
part of an inch for the intermediate coloul'tf.
This curious phenomenon may be easily shown to
the eye, by admitting the sun's light into a dark
room through a small hole about the 40th or 50th
part of an inch in diameter, and receiving the
light on a sheet of paper. If we hold a needle or
piece of slender wire in this light, and exa~ine
o''""' ,,Coogle
19$ LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
its shadow, we shall find that the shadow consists
of bright and -
dark stripes succeeding each other
alternately, the stripe in the very middle or axis
of the shadow being a bright one. The rays of
light which are bent into the shadow, and which
meet in the very middle of the shadow, have ex-
actly the same length of path, so that they fonn a
bright fringe of double the intensity of either; but
the rays which fall upon a point of the shadow at
a certain distance from the middle, have a differ-
ence in the length of their paths, corresponding to
the difference at which the lights destroy each
other, so that a black stripe is produced on each
side of the middle bright one. At a greater dis-
tance from the middle,the difference becomes such
as to produce a bright stripe, and so on, a bright
and a dark stripe succeeding each other to the
.margin of the shadow.
The explanation which philosophers have given
-ofthese str~mge phenomenais very satisfactory, and
may be easily understood. When a wave is made
on the surface of astill pool of water, by plunging
a stone into it, the wave advances along the sur-
face, while the water itselfis never carriedforward,
but merely rises into a height and falls into a hol-
low, each portion of the surface experiencing an
elevation and a depression in its turn. Ifwe sup-
pose two waves equal and similar to be produced
by two separate stones, and if they reach the same
spot at the same time, that is, if the two elevations
should exactly coincide, they would unite their
~ffects and produce a wave twice the size ofeither;
but if the one wave should bejust so far before the
other, that the hollow of the one coincided with
.
o''""' ,,Coogle
ACOUSTIC AUTOMATA, 199
the elevatiob ofthe other, and the elevation of the
one with the hollow of the other, the two waves
would obliterate or destroy one another, the eleva-
tion as it were of the one filling up halfthe hollow
of the other, and the hollow of the one taking
away half the elevation of the other, so as to re-
!luce the surface to a level. These effects will be
actually exhibited by throwing two equal stones into
a pool of water, and it will be seen that there are
certain lines of a hyperbolic form where the water -
is quite smooth, in consequence of the equal waves
obliterating one another, while, in other adjacent
parts, the water is raised to a height corresponding
to both the waves united.
In the tides of the ocean we have a fine example
of the same principle. The two immense waves
arising from the action of the sun and moon upon
the ocean produce our spring-tides by their com-
bination, or when the elevations of each coincide;
and our neap-tides, when the elevation of the one
wave coincides with the depression of the other. If
the sun and moon had exerted exactly the same
force upon the ocean, or produced tide waves of
the same size, then ()Ur neap-tides would have dis-
-appeared altogether, and the spring-tide W()uld
.bave been a wave douhle of the wave produced by
the sun and moon separately. An example of the
-effect of the equality Qf the two waves occura in
the port of Batsha, where the two waves arrive by
channels of different lengths, and actually obli-
terate each other.
Now·, as sound is produced by undulations or
:waves in the air, and as light is supposed to be pro-
duced by waves or undulations in an etherial ~-
o''""' ,,Coogle
200 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
dium, filling all nature, and occupying the pores of
transparent bodies, the successive production of
sound and silence by two loud sounds, or of light
and darkness by two bright lights, may be explained
in the very same manner as we have explained the
increase and the obliteration of waves formed on
the surface of water. If this theory of light be cor-
rect, then the breadth of a wave of red light will .
be the 258th thousandth part ofan inch, the breadth
of a wave of green light the 207th thousandth part
of an inch, and the breadth of a wave of violet
light the 157th thousandth part of an inch. ,
Among the wonders of modern skill, we must
enumerate those beautiful automata by which the
motions and actions of man and other animals have
been successfully imitated. I shall therefore de.,.
scribe at present some of the most remarkable
acoustic automata, in which the production of mu.,.
sical and vocal sounds has been the principal object
of the artist.
Many very ingenious pieces of acoustic mecha,.
nism have been from time to time exhibited in
Europe. The celebrated Swiss mechanist, M. le
Droz, constructed for the King. of Spain the figure
of a sheep, which imitated in the most perfect
manner the bleating of that animal; and likewise
the figure of a dog watching a basket of fruit,
which, when any of the fruit was taken away,
never ceased barking till it was replaced.
The singing-bird of M. Maillardet, which he
exhibited in Edinburgh many years ago, is still
more wonderful*. An oval.box, about three inches
• A similar piece of mechanism bad been previously made
by M. le Drot.
....
VAUCANSON'S FLUTB-PLAYER. 201
long, was set upon the table, and in an instant the
lid flew up, and a bird of the size of the humming-
bird, and of the most beautiful plumage, started
from its nest. After fluttering its wings, it opened
its bill and performed four different kinds of the
most beautiful warbling. It then darted down into
its nest, and the lid closed upon it. The moving
power in this piece of mechanism is said to have
been springs which continued their action only
four minutes. As there was no room within so
small a figure for accommod~ting pipes to pro:-
duce the great variety of notes which were warbled,
the artist used only one tube, and produced all the
variety of so.unds by shortening and" lengthening
it with a moveable piston.
. Ingenious as these pieces of mechanism are,
t)l'ey sink into insignificance when compared with
.the machinery of M. Vaucanson, which had pre-
viously astonished all Europe. His two principal
automata were the flute-player, and the pipe and
tabor player. The flute-player was completed in
1736, and wherever it was exhibited it produced
the greatest sensation. When it came to Paris it
:was received with great l!uspicion. The French
~avans recollected the story of M. Raisin, the
organist of Troyes, who exhibited an automaton
player upon the harpsichord, which astonished the
French court by the variety of its powers. The
curiosity of the King could not be restrained, and
in consequence of his insisting upon examining
the mechanism, there was found in the figure a
pretty little musician five years of age. It was
natural, therefore, that a similar piece· of mecha-
nism should be received with some distrust; but
o''""' ,,Coogle
202 LBTTERS ON NATURAL liAOIC;
this feeling was soon removed by M. Vaueanson,
who exhibited and explained to a committee of the
Academy of Sciences the whole of the mechanism.
This learned body was astonished at the ingenuity
which it displayed; and they did not hesitate to
state, that the machinery employed for producing
the sounds of the flute performed in the most ex-
act manner the very operations of the most expert
flute-player, and that the artist had imitated the
effects produced, and the means employed by na-
ture, with an accuraey which exceeded all expec-
tation. In 1738, M. Vaueanson published a me- ~
moir, approved of by the Academy, in which he gave
a full description of the machinery employed, and
of the principles of its construction. Following
this memoir, I sl1all therefore attempt to give as po-
pular a description of the automaton as can be done
without lengthened details and numerous figures.
The body of the flute-player was about 5t feet
higl1, and was placed upon a piece of rock, sur-
rounding a square pedestal• 4l feet high by 3\-
feet wide. When the panel which formed the
front of the pedestal was opened, there was
seen on the right a clock movement, which, by
the aid of several wheels, gave a rotatory motion
to a steel axis about 2t feet long, having cranks
at six equidistant points of its length, but lying in
.different directions. To each crank was attached
a cord, which descended and was fixed by its other
end to the upper board of a pair of bellows, 2\
feet long and 6 inches wide. Six: pair of bellows
arranged along the bottom of the pedestal were
then wrought, or made to blow in rnccession, by
turning the steel axis
o''""' ,,Coogle
• V.A.UCAl'fSON'S FL11TJI~LA.YilL 203
At the ~pper face of the pedestal, and upon each
pair of bellows, is a double pulley,one ofwhose rima
is 3 inches in diameter, and the other a. The
cord which proceeds from the crank coils round
the smallest of these pulleys, and that which ia
fixed to the upper board of the bellows goes round
the larger pulley. By this means the upper board
of the bellows is made to rise higher than if the
cords went directly from them to the cranks.
Round the larger rims of three of these pulleys,
viz. those on the right hand, there are coiled three
cords, which, by means of several smaller pulleys,
terminate in the upper boards of other three pair
of bellows placed on the top of the box.
The tension of each cord when it b~ins to raise
the board of the bellows to which it is attached,
gives motion to a lever placed above it between the
axis and the double pulley in the middle and lower
region of the box. The other end of this lever
keeps open the valve in the lower board of the bel-
lows, and allows the air to enter frP.ely, while the
upper board is rising to incr~ase the capacity of the
bellows. By this means there is not only power
gained, in so far as the air gains easier admission
through the valve, but the fluttering noise produced
by the action of the air upon the valves is entirely
avoided, and the nine pair of bellows are wr()ught
with great ease, and without any concussion or
noise.
These nine bellows discharge their wind into
three different and separate tubes. Each tube re-
ceives the wind of three bellows, the upper boards
of one of the three pair being loaded with a weight
of four pounds, those of the second three paiJ: with
o''""' ,,Coogle
204 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
a weight of two pounds, and those of 'the other
three pair with Bo weight at all. These three tubes
ascended through the body of the figure, and
terminated in three small reservoirs placed in its
trunk. These reservoirs were thus united into one,
which, ascending into the throat, formed by its
enlargement the cavity of the mouth terminated by
two small lips, which rested upon the hole of the
flute. These lips had the power of opening more
or less, and by a particular mechanism, they could
advance or recede from the hole in the flute.
Within the cavity of the mouth there is a small
moyeable tongue for opening and shutting the
pat!sage for the wind through the lips of the
figure.
The motions of the fingers, lips, and tongue of
the figure were produced by means of a revolving
cylinder, thirty inches long, and twenty-one in dia-
meter. By means of pegs and brass staples fixed
in fifteen different divisions in its circumference,
fifteen different levers, similar to those in a barrel-
organ, were raised ani} depressed. Seven of these
regulated the motions of the seven fingers for
stopping the holes of the flute, which they did by
means of steel chains rising through the body, and
directed by pulleys to the shoulder, elbow, and
fingers. Other three of the levers communicating
with the valves of the three reservoirs, regulated
the ingress of the air, so as to produce a stronger
or a weaker tone. Another lever opened the lips
so as to give a free passage to the air, and another
contracted them for the opposite purpose. A third
lever drew them backwards from the orifice of
the flute, and a fourth pushed them forward., •The
o''""' ,,Coogle
VAUCANSON.S PIPB AND TABOR PLAYER. 205
remaining lever enabled the tongue to stop up the
orifice of the flute.
Such is a very brief view of the general mecha-
nism by which the requisite motions of the flute-
player were produced. The airs which it played
were probably equal to those executed by a living
performer, and' its construction, as well as its per-
.formances, continued for many years to delight
and astonish the philosophers and musicians of
Europe.
Encouraged by the success of this machine, M.
Vaucanson exhibited in 1741 other automata,
which were equally, if not more, admired. One of
these was the automaton duck, which performed
all the motions of that animal, and not only ate its
food, but digested it*; and the other was his pipe
and tabor player, a piece of mechanism which re-
quired all the resources of l1is fertile genius. Hav-
ing begun this machine before he was aware of its
peculiar difficulties, he was often about to abandon
it in despair, but his patience and his ingenuity
combined, enabled him not only to surmount every
difficulty, but to construct an automaton which
performed complete airs, and greatly excelled the
most esteemed performers on the pipe and tabor.
The figure stands on a pedestal, and is dre'sed
like a dancing shepherd. He holds in one hand a
flageolet, and in the other the stick with which he
beats the tambourin as an accompaniment to the
airs of the flageolet, about twe.nty of which it is
capable of performing. The flageolet has only
three holes, and the variety of its tones depends
principally on a proper variation of the force of the
• See Letter XI.
o''""' ,,Coogle
!06 J.BTTBRS 0~ NATURAL MAGIC'.
wind, and on the different degrees with which the
orifices are covered. These variations in the force
of the wind required to be given with a rapidity
which the ear can scarcely follow; and the articu-
lation of the tongue was required for the quickest
notes, otherwise the effect was far from agreeable.
As the human tongue is not capable of giving the
requisite articulations to a rapid succession of
notes, and generally slurs over.one-half of them,
the automaton was thus able to excel the best ~r­
formers, as it played complete airs with articu-
lations of the tongue at every note.
In constructing this machine M. Vaucanson ob-
served that the flageolet must be a most fatiguing
instrument for the human lungs, as the muscles of
the chest must make an effort equal to fifty-six
pounds in order to produce the highest notes. A
single ounce was sufficient for the lowest notes, so
that we may, from this circumstance, form an idea
of the variety of intermediate effects required to be
produced.
While M. Vaucanson was engaged in the con-
struction of these wonderful machines, his mind
was filled with the strange idea of constructing an
automaton containing the whole mechanism of the
circulation of the blood. From some birds which
be made, he was satisfied ofits practicability; but
as the whole vascular system required to be made
of elastic gum or caoutchouc, it was supposed that
it could only be e:aoecuted in the country where the
caoutchouc-tree was indigenous. Louis XVI. took
a deep interest in the execution of this machine.
It was agreed that a akilful anatomist should pr~
ceed to Guiana to superintend the construction of
o''""' ,,Coogle
:KRATZ!:NSTEIN'S AUTOMATON. 201
the blood-vessels, and the king had not only
approved of, but had given orders for, the voyage.
Difficulties, however, were thrown in the way,
Vaucanson became disgusted, and the scheme was
abandoned.
The two automata which we have described were
purchased by Professor Bayreuss of Helmstadt;
but we have not been able to learn whether or not
they still exist. ·
Towards the end of the nineteenth century a
bold and almost successful attempt was made to
construct a talking automaton. In the year 1779,
the Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Peters-
burg proposed as the subject of one of their annual
prizes an inquiry into the nature ofthe vowel sounds,
A, E, I, 0, and U, and the construction ofan instru-
ment for artificially imitating them. This prize
was gained by M. Kratzenstein, who showed that
all the vowels could be distinctly pronounced by
blowing through a reed into the lower ends of the
pipes of the annexed figures, as shown in Fig. 48,
Fig. 48.
where the corresponding vowels are marked on the
different pipes. The vowel· I is pronounced by
lt08 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
merely blowing into the pipe a b, of the pipe
marked I, without the use of a reed.
About the same time that Kratzenstein was en-
gaged in these researches, M. Kempelen of Vienna,
a celebrated mechanician, was occupied with the
same subject. In his first attempt he produced the
vowel sounds, by adapting a reed R, Fig. 49, to
Fig. 49.
the bottom of a funnel-shaped cavity A B, and
placing his hand in various positions within the
funnel. This contrivance, however, was not fitted
for his purpose, but after long st'\ldy, and adiligent
examination of the organs of speech, he con-
trived a hollow oval box, divided into two portions
attached by a hinge so as to resemble jaws. This
box received the sound which issued from the tube
connected with the reed, and by opening and clos-
ing the jaws, he produced the sounds, A, 0, 0 U,
and an imperfect E, but no indications of an I.
After two years' labour he succeeded in obtaining
from different jaws the sounds of the consonants
P, M, L, and by means of these vowels and con-
sonants, he could compose syllables and words,
such as mamma, papa, aula, lama, mulo. The
o''""' ,,Coogle
•
KEMPELEN'S TALKING MACHINE. 209
sounds of two adjacent letters, however, ran into
each other, and an aspiration followed some of the
consonants ; so that, instead of papa, the word
sounded phaa-ph-a; these difficulties he contrived
with much labour to surmount, and he found it
necessary to imitate the human organs of speech
by having only one mouth and one glottis. The
mouth consisted of a funnel, or bell-shaped piece
ofelastic gum, which approximated, by its physical
properties, to the softness and flexibility of the
human organs •. To the mouth-piece was added
a nose made of two tin tubes, which communicated
with the mouth. When both these .tubes were
open, and the mouth-piece closed, aperfect M
was produced; and when one was closed and the
other open, an N was sounded. M. Kempelen
could have succeeded in obtaining the four letters
D, G, K, T, but, by using a P instead of them,
and modifying the sound in a particular manner,
he contrived to deceive the ear by a tolerable
resemblance of these letters.
There seems to be no doubt that he at last was
able to produce entire words and sentences, such
as opera, astr011omy, Constantinopolis, Vous etes
mon ami, Je vous aime de tout m011 creur, Venez
avec moi aParis, Leopoldus secundus, Romano-
rum imperator semper Augustus, &c., but he never
fitted up a speaking figure ; and probably, from
being dissatisfied with the general result of his
• Had M. Kt>mpt"len known the modern discovery of
giving glue any del(ree or sofrness, by mixing it with mo-
lasses or sugar, which is always ab•orbing moisture from
the atmosphere, he might bave obtained a still more perfect
imitation or the human organs.
0
o''""' ,,Coogle
-2i0 LETTERS ON .NATURAL MAGIC.
labours, he exhibited only to his private friends
the effects of the apparatus, which was fitted -up
iin the form of a box.
This box was rectangular, and about three feet
1ong, and was placed upon • table, and eevered
with a cloth. When any particular word wu
mentioned by the company, M. Kempelen eausell
the machine to pronounce it, by introducing his
lliands beneath the cloth, and apparently giving
:motion to some parts of the apparatu1. Mr.
"Thomas Collinson, who had seen this machine in
.London, mentions, i.n a letter to Dr. Hutton, that
he afterwards saw it at M. Kempelen•s own bouse
,jn Vienna, and that he then ga-ve it the same word
i1o be pronounced which he gave it in London, viz.
.the word ExploitoJ,ion, which, he assures us, it
-again distinctly pronounced with the French
accent.
M. Kratzenstein seems to have been equally un-
'8Uccessful; for though he Hl!ured M. de Lalande,
when he saw him in Paris in 1786, that he had
made a machine which ceuld speak pretty well,
and though he showed him some of the apparatu.
<by which it could sound the vowels, and even such
'syllables as papa and mamma, yet there is no rea-
;son to believe that he had aooomplished more than
.this.
·The labours of Kratzenstein and Kempelen
have been recently pursued with great success by
our ingenious countryman, Mr. Willis, of Cam-
bridge. In repeating Kempelen's experiment,
:shown in Fig. 49, he used a shallower cavity,
tmch as that in Fig. 50, and found that he could
~ntirely dispense with the introduction of the
o''""' ,,Coogle
WILLIS's VOWEL XACJIINE. 211
band, and could obtain the whole series of vowels
by sliding a flat board C D over the mouth of the
cavity. Mr. Willis then conceived the idea of
adapting to the reed cylindrical tubes, whose
Fig. 50.
c D
length could be varied by sliding joints. When
the tube was greatly less than the length of a.
stopped pipe in unison with the reed, it sounded I_
and by increasing the length of the tube, it gave
E, A, 0, and U, in succession. But what was
very unexpected, when the tube was so much
lengthened as to be 1! times the length of a stopped
pipe in unison with the reed, the vowels began to
be again sounded in an inverted order, viz. U;O,A,
E, and then again in a direct order, I, E, A, 0, U,
when the length of the tube was equal to twice
that of a stopped pipe, in unison with the Ieed.
Some important discoveries have been recently
made by M. Savart respecting the mechanism of
the human voice"'; and we have no doubt that,
before another century is completed, a Talking
and a Singing machine wiH be numbered among
.the conquests of Science.
• See Edinburglt Joumal of Scienet, No. viii. p. 209.
o2
o''""' ,,Coogle
212 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
LETTER IX.
Singular ifects in nature depending on aound-Permanent
character of spuch-lnjlumce ~f great elevatiom on the
characte>' of 1ound•, and on the pou•ers ofspeech-Power
ofsound in throwing down buildinga-Dog ki!led b!l aound
- Sound• great/9 changed under particular circurmtance•
-Great audibilit!l of 10tmd1 during the night e:rplained-
Sound• deadened in media ofdifferent denaities-lllUitrat•d
in the cau of 11 gla11 of champagne-ant/ in thnt of new-
fallen •now-Remarkable echoes-Reverberatiom ~f thun-
der-Subterranean troiaea-Remarkable one at the Sot.
falerra-Echo at the Menai IUipemion-bridge-Tempo-
t'ar!J dcafnell produced in diving-bell•- Jnaudibilif!l of
particular sounds to particulm· ear•-Vuca/ power& of the
1/afue of 11-/emnon-Sounds in gr·anile rocks-Murical
mountain of EI-Nakour.
ALTHOUGH, among the phenomena of the mate-
rial world, there is scarcely one which, when well
considered, is not an object of wonder, yet those
which we have been accustomed to witness from
our infancy lose all their interest from the frequency
of their occurrence, while to the natives of other
countries they are unceasing objects of astonish-
ment and delight. The inhabitant of a tropical
climate is confounded at the sight of falling snow,
and he almost discredits the evidence of his senses
when he sees a frozen river carrying loaded wag-
gons on its surface. The diffusion of knowledge
'''"'"'',Coogle
PERIIANENT CHARACTER OP SPEECH, 213
by books, as well as by frequent communication
between the natives of different quarters of the
globe, has deprived this class of local wonders of
their influence, and the Indian and the Scandina-
vilm can visit each other's lands without any vio-
lent excitement of surprise. Still, however, there
are phenomena of rare occurrence, of which no de;.
scription can convey the idea, and which continue
to be as deeply marked with the marvellous as if
they had been previously unknown. Among these
we may rank the remarkable modifications which
sound undergoes in particular situations and under
particular circumstances.
In the ordinary intercourse of life, we recognize
individuals as much by their voice as by the fea-
tures of their face and the form of their body. A
friend who has been long absent will often stand
before us as a stranger, till his voice supplies us
with the full power of recognition. The brand
imprinted by time on his outer form may have
effaced the youthful image which the memory had
cherishe4, but the original character of ·his voice
and its yet remembered tones will remain unim"'
paired. "
An old friend with a new face is not more com-
mon in its moral than in its physical acceptation ;
and though the sagacity of proverbial wisdom has
not supplied us with the counterpart iu relation to
the human voice, vet the influence of its immuta-
bility over the mind has been recorded by the poet
in some of his most powerful conceptions. When
Manfred was .unable to recognize in the hectic
phantom of Astarte the endeared lineaments of the
being whom he loved, the mere utterance of his •
o''""' ,,Coogle
214 LBT'I'ERS ON NATURAL KAGTC.
~~ame recalled "the voice which was his music,"
aDd invested her with the desired reality.
Say on, eay on-
llive but ill the &OWld-It is thy voice I
BYRON.
The permanence of character thus impressed
upon speech exists only in those regions to whose
atmosphere our vocal organs are adapted. If
either the speaker or the hearer is placed in air
differing greatly in density from that to which
they are accustomed, the voice of the one will eJ;nit
different sounds. or the same sounds will produce
a different impression on the ear of the other.
But if both parties are placed in this new atmos-
phere, their tones of communication will suffer
the moat remarkable change. The two extreme
positions, where auch eifects beeome sufficiently
striking, are in the compressed air of the diving-
bell, when it is immersed to a great depth in the
1!Jea,. or in the rarefied atmosphere which prevails
on tne summit of ihe Himalaya or the Andes.
In the region of common life, and even at the
atilleat hour of night, the ear seldom rests from ita
toils. When the voice of man and the bustle of
his labours have ceased, the sounds of insect life
are redoubled; the lilight breeze awakens among
the rustling leaves, and the awell of the distant
ocean, and the aounde o.f the falling cataract or of
the murmuring brook, fill the air with their pwe
and solemn music. The sublimity of deep silence
is not to be fouoo even in the steppes of the Volga,
or in the forests of the Orinoco. H can be felt
• only in thoBe lofty regions
Where *h. tops ef the Andea
Shoot soaringly forth.
o''""' ,,Coogle
INFLU.INCE OF ELEVATION ON SOUNDS, 215
As the traveller rises above the limit of life and
motion, and enters the region of habitual solitude,
the death-like silence which prevails around him is
rendered still more striking by the diminished den-
sity of the air which he breathes. The voice of his
fellow-traveller ceases to be heard even at a mode-
rate distance, and sounds which would stun the ear
at a lower level make but a feeble impression. The
report of a pistol on the top of Mont Blanc is no
louder than that of an Indian cracker. But while
the thinness of the air thus subdues the loudest
sounds, the -voice itself undergoes a singular
change: the muscular energy by which we speak
experiences a great diminution, and our powers of
utterance, as well as our power of hearing, are thus
singularly modified. Were the magician, therefore,
who is desirous to impress upon his victim or upon
his pupil the conviction of his supernatural power>.
to carry him, under the injunction of silence,
---------to breathe
The difficult air of the iced mountain's top,
Whert!. the birds dare not build, nor insect's wing·
Flit o'er the herbless granite,
he would experience little difficulty in asserting
his power over the elements, and still less in sub-
sequently communicating the same influence to
his companion.
But though the air at the tops of our highest
mountains is scarcelycapableoftransmittingsounds
of ordinary intensity, yet sounds of extraordinary
power force their way through its most attenuated
strata. At elevations where the air is three thou-
sand times more rare than that which we breathe,
the explosion of meteors is heard like the sound of
• o''""' ,,Coogle
216 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
cannon on the surface of the earth, and the whole
air is often violently agitated by the sound. This
fact alone may give us some idea of the tremendous
nature of the forces which such explosions create,
and it is fortunate for our species that they are
confined to the upper regions of the atmosphere.
If the same explosions were to take place in the
dense air which rests upon the earth, our habita-
tions and our lives would be exposed to the most
:imminent peril. .
Buildings have often been thrown down by vio-
·]ent concussions of the air, occasioned either by
the sound of great guns or by loud thunder; and
·tl1e most serious effecttt upon human and animal
life have been produced by the same cause. Most
persons have experienced the stunning pain pro-
duced in the ear, when plact'd near a cannon that is
.discharged. Deafness has frequently been the result
-of such sudden concussions, and if we may reason
from analogy, death itself must often have been
the consequence. When peace was proclaimed in
London in 1697, two troops of horse were dis-
mounted and drawn up in line in order to fire their
volleys. Opposite the centre of the line was the
door of a butcher's shop, where there was a large
mastiff dog ofgreat courage. This dog was sleep-
ing by the fire, but when the first volley was fired,
it immediately started up, ran into another room,
and hid itself under a bed. On the firing of the
second volley, the dog rose, ran several times
about the room trembling violently, and apparently
in great agony. When the third volley was fired,
the dog ran about once or twice with great violence
and instantly"fell down dead, throwing up blood
from his mouth and nose. .
•
o''""' ,,Coogle
INFLUENCE OF ELEVATION ON SOUNDS, 217
Sounds of known character and intensity are ·
often singularly changed even at the surface of the
earth, according to the state of the ground and the
conditions of the clouds. On the extended heath,
where there are no solid objects capable of reflect-
ing or modifying sound, the sportsman must fre-
quently have noticed the unaccountable variety of
sounds which are produced by the report of his
fowling-piece. Sometimes they are flat and pro- ·
longed, at oiher times short and sharp, and some-
times the noise is so strange that it is referred to
some mistake in the loading of the gun. These
variations, however, arise entirely from the state
of the air, and from the nature and proximity of
the superjacent clouds. In pure air of uniform
density the sound is sharp and soon oYer, as the
undulations of the air advance without any inter-
rupting obstacles. In a foggy atmosphere, or
where the vapours produced by heat are ·seen
dancing as it were in the air, the sound is dull and
prolonged; and when these clouds are immediately
overhead, a succession of echoes from them pro-
duces a contin)led or reverberating sound. When
the French astronomers were determining the ve- ·
locity of sound by firing great guns, they observed
that the report was always single and sharp ttnder
a perfectly clear sky, but indistinct, and attended
by a long-continued roll like thunder, when a cloud
covered a considerable part of the horizon. It is
no doubt owing to- the same cause, namely, the
reflexion from the clouds, that the thunder rolls
through the heavens, as if it were produced by a
succession of electric explosions.
The great audibility of sounds during the night
• o''""' ,,Coogle
2'18 :&li:TTBRS ON NATURAL MAGI<:,
is a phenomenon of coneiderableointerest, and one
which had been observed even by the ancients. In
crowded cities or in their vicinity, the effect waa
generally ascribed to the rest of animated beings,
while in localities where sueh an explanation waa.
inapplicable, it wassupposed to arise from a. favour-
able direction of the prevailing wind. Baron,Hum-
boldt was particularly struck with this phenomenon
when he first heard the rushing ofthe great cata-
racts of the Orinoco in the plain which surrounds
the Mission of the Apures. These sounds here-
garded as three times louder during the night than
during the day. Some authors ascribed this fact
to the cessation of the humming of insects, the
singing of birds, and the action of the wind on
the leaves of the trees, but M. HumbC)ldt justly
maintains that this cannot be the cause ofit on the
Orinoco, where the buzz of insects is much louder
in the night than in the day, and where the breeze
never rises till after sunset. Hence he was led to
ascribe the phenomenon to the pel'fect transparency
and uniforn:i: density of the air, which can ex.i.st
only at night after the heatof the gro.und has been
uniformly diffused through the atmosphere. When
the rays of the sun have been beating on the ground
durin~ the day, currents of hot air of different tem-
peratures, and consequently of different densities,
are constantly ascending from the ground and mix-
ing with the eold air above. The air thus ceases-
to be a homogeneous medium, and every person
must have observed the effects of it upon objects
aeen through it whieh are very indistinctly visible,.
and have a tremulous motion, as if they were.
"dancing in the air." The very BanJe effect is
•
o''""' ,,Coogle
EFFECT OF ATMOSPHERIC TRANSPARENCY. 219
perceived when we look at objects through spirits
and water that are not_perfectly mixed, or when
we view distant objects over a red-hot poker or over
a flame. In all these cases the light suffers refrac-
tion in passing from a medium of one density into
a medium of a different density, and the refracted
rays ate constantly changing their direction as the
different currents rise in succession. Analogous
effects are produced when sound passes through a
mixed medium, whether it consists of two different
mediums or of one medium where portions of it
have differE\llt densities. As sound moves with
different velocities through media of different den-
sities, the wave which produces the sound will be
partly reflected in pl}ssing from one medium to the
other, and the direction of the transmission wave
changed ; and hence in passing through such me-
dia different portions ofthe wave will reach the ear
at different times, and th!ls destroy the sharpness
and distinctness of the sound. This may be proved
by many striking facts. If we put a bell in a re-
eeiver containing a mixture of hydrogen gas and
atmospheric air, the sound of the bell can scarcely
be heard. During a shower of rain or of snow,
noises are greatly deadened ; and when sound is
transmitted along an iron wire or an iron pipe of
aufficient length, we actually hear two sounds, one
transmitted more rapidly through the solid, and
the other more slowly through the air. The same
property is well illustrated by an elegant and easily
repeated experiment of Chladni's. When spark-
ling champagne is poured into a tall glass till it is
half full, the glass loses its poweT of ringing by a
stroke upon its edge, and emits only a disagreeable
•
o''""' ,,Coogle
!20 . LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
and puffy sound. This effect will continue while
the wine is filled with bubbles of air, or as long as
the effervescence lasts; out when the effervescence
begins to subside, the sound becomes clearer and
clearer, and the glass rings as usual when the air-
bubbles have vanished. If we reproduce the effer-
vescence by stirring the champagne with a piece
of bread, the glass will again cease to ring. The
same experiment will succeed with other effer-
vescing fluids.
The difference in the audibility of sounds that
pass over homogeneous and over mixed media is
sometimes so remarkable as to astonish those who
witness it. The following fact is given on the evi-
dence of an officer who observed it:-When the
British and the American forces were encamped on
each side of a river; the outposts were so near,
that the form of individuals could be easily distin-
guished. An American drummer made his appear-
ance, and began·to beat his drum; but though the
motion of his arms was distinctly seen, not a
single sound reached the ear of the observer. A
coating of snow that had newly fallen upon the
ground, and the thickness of the atmosphere, had
conspired to obstruct the sound. An effect the
very reverse of this is produced by a coating of
glazed or hardened snow, or by an extended surface
of ice or water. Lieutenant Foster was able to
carry on a conversation with a sailor across Port
Bowen Harbour, a distance of no less than a mile
and a quarter, and the sound of great guns has
been heard at distances varying from 120 to 200
miles. Over hard and dry ground of an uniform
character, or where a thin soil rests upon a conti-
•
o''""' ,,Coogle
RKMARK ...BLE ECHOES. 221
nuous stratum of rock, the sound is heard at a
great distance, and hence it is the practice among
many eastern tribes to ascertain the approach of
an enemy by applying the ear to the ground.
Many remarkable phenomena in the natural
world are produced by the reflexion and concentra-
tion of sound. Every person is familiar with the
ordinary echo which arises from the reflexion of
sound from an even surface, such as· the face of a
wall, of a house, of a rock, of a hill, or of a cloud,
As .sound moves at the rate of 1090 feet in a se-
cond, and as the sound which returns to the per-
son who emits it has travelled over a space equal
to twice his distance from the reflecting surface,
the distance in feet of the body which occasions
the echo may be readily found by multiplying 545
by the number of seconds which elapse between
the emission of the sound and its return in the
form of an echo. This kind of echo, where the
same person is the speaker and the hearer, never
takes place unless when the observer is imme-
diately in front of the reflecting surface, or when
a line drawn from his mouth to the flat surface is
nearly perpendicular to it, because in this case
alone the wave of sound is reflected in the very
same direction from the wall in which it reaches it.
If the speaker places himself on one side of this
line, then the echo will be heard most distinctly
by another person as far on the other side of it,
because the waves of sound are reflected like light,
so that the angle of incidence or the inclination at
which the sound falls upon the reflected surface is
equal to the angle of reflexion, or the inclination
at which the sound is returned from the wall. If
o''""' ,,Coogle
2!! LETTERS ON !I'ATUJI.AL 'MAGIC.
two peraons, thel'eWre, 11.re p"'Iaced before the re-
flecting wall, the one will hear the et'ho of the
sound emitted by the other, and obstacles may in-
tervene between these two persons, so that neither
of them hears the direct sound emitted by the
other; in the same manner as the same perscms
similarly placed before a looking-glass wotild see
each other distinctly by reflexion, though objects
might obstruct their direct view of each othet".
. Hitherto we have suppo.eed that there is only
one reflecting surface, in which case there wilt
be only one echo : but if there are eeveral reflect-
ing surfaces, as is the case in an amphitheatre of
mountains, or during a thunder-storm, where there
are several strata or masses of clouds; or if there
are two parallel or inclined surfaces between which
the sound can be repeatedly reflected, or if tbe
surface is curved, so that the sound reflected from
one part falle upon another part, like the sides of a
· polygon inscribed in a circle,-in all these cases
there will be numerous echoes, which pr.oduce a
very singular effect. Nothing can be more grand
and sublime than the primary andsecondaryechoes
of a piece of ordnance discharged in an amphi-
theatre of precipitous mountains. The direct or
primary echoes from each reflecting surface reach
the ear in succession, according to their different
distances, and these are either blended with or suc-
ceeded by the secondary echoes, which terminate
in a prolonged growl, ending in absolute silence.
Of the same character are the reverberated claP-
of a thunder-bolt reflected from the surroundi~
clouds, and dying away in the distance. The echo
which is produced by parallel walls is finely illus-
REilAllKABLZ BCBOEI. . 2a
trated at the Marquis of Simonetta's villa near
Milan, which has been described by Addison and
Keysler, and which we believe is that described by
Mr. Southwell in the Philosophical Tr&Dsactions
for 1'746. Perpendicular to the main body of this
villa there extend two parallel wtngs about fifty-
eight paces distantfr.om each other, ADd the sur-
faces mwhich are unbroken either with doors or
windows. The sound of the human voice, or
rather .a word quickly pronounced, is repeated
above forty times, and the report of a pilltol from
fifty-six to sixty times. The repetitions, however.,
follow in sueh rapid succession that it is difficult to
reckon them, unless early in the morning before
the equal temperature of the atmosphere is dis-
turbed, or in a calm, .still evening. The echoea
appear to be best heard from a window in the
main building between the two projecting walls,
from which the pistol also is fired. Dr. Plot men-
tions &D echo in Woodstock Park which repel!-tl
seventeen syll.ables by day and twenty by uight.
An echo on the north side of Shipley church, in
Sussex, repeats twenty-one syllables. Sir Julm
Herschel mentions an eeho in the Manfroni palace
at Venice~ wh€re a penon .t!tanding in the centre
of a square room about twenty-five feet high. with
a concave roof, hears the 11tamp of his foot re-
peated a great many times; but as his position de-
viates from the centl'e, the echoes become feebler,
and at a short distance entirely cease. The same
phenomenon, he remarks, occurs in the large room
of the library of the museum at Naples. M.
Genefay has described, as existing near Rouen, a
curious oblique echo which is nut heard by the
o''""' ,,Coogle
224 LRTTKRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
person who emits the sound: A person who sings
hears only his own voice, while those who listen
hear only the echo, which sometimes seem!! to
approach, and at other times to recede from the
ear ; one person hears a single souqd, another
several sounds, and one hears it on the right, and
another on the left, the effect always changing as
the hearer change~ hie position. Dr. Birch has
described an extraordinary echo at Roseneath, ·in
Argyleshire, which certainly does not now exist.
When eight or ten netes were played upon a
trumpet, they were correctly repeated, but on a
key a third lower. After a short pause, another
repetition of the notes was heard in a still lower
tone, and after another short interval they were
repeated in a still lower tone.
In the same manner as light is always lost by
reflexion, so the waves of sound are enfeebled by
reflexion from ordinary surfaces, and the echo is
in such cases fainter than the original sound. If
the reflecting surface, however, is circular, sound
may be condensed and rendered stronger in the
same manner as light. I have seen a fine example
of this, in the circular tum of a garden wall nearly
a mile distant from a weir across a river. · When
the air is pure and homogeneous, the rushing
sound of the water is reflected from the hollow sur-
face of the wall, and concentrated in a focus, the
place of which the ear can easily discover from the
intensity of the sound being there a maximum. A
person not acquainted with the locality conceives
that the rushing noise is on the other side of the
wall.
In whispering galleries, or places where "the
o''""' ,,Coogle
WHISPERING GALLERY. 225
lowest whispers are carried to distances at which
the direct sound is inaudible, the sound may be
conveyed in two ways, either by repeated reflexions
from a curved surface in the direction of the sides
of a polygon inscribed in a circle, or where· the
whisperer is in the focus of one reflecting surface,
and the hearer in the focus of another reflecting
surface, which is placed so as to receive there-
flected sounds. The first of these ways is exem-
plified in the whispering gallery of St. Paul's, and
in the octagonal gallery of Gloucester Cathedral,
which conveys a whisper seventy-five feet across
the nave ; and the second.in the baptistery of a
church in Pisa, where•the architect, Giovanni
Pisano, is said to have constructed the cupola on
purpose. The cupola has an elliptical form, and
when one person whispers in one focus, it is dis-
tinctly heard by the person placed in the other
fucus, but not by those who are placed between
them. The sound first reflected passes acrosR the
cupola, and enters the ears of the intermediate
persons, but it is too feeble to be heard till it has
been condensed by a second reflexion to the other
focus of ellipse. A naval officer, who travelled
through Sicily in the year 1824, gives an account
of a powerful whispering place in the cathedral of
Girgenti, where the slightest whisper is carried
with perfect distinctness through a distance of two
hundred and fifty feet, from the great western door
to the cornice behind the high altar. By an un-
fortunate coincidence, the focus of one of there-
flecting surfaces was chosen for the place of the
confessional; and when this was accidentally dis-
covered, the lovers of ~crets resorted to the other
p
o''""' ,,Coogle
226 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
focus,. and thus became acquainted with confessions
of the gravest import. This divulgence of scandal
continued for a considerable time, till the eager
curiosity of one of the dilettanti was punished, by
hearing his wife's avowal of her own infidelity.
This circumstance gave publicity to the whispering
peculiarity of the cathedral, and the confessional
was removed to a place of greater seeresy.
An echo of a very peculiar character has been
described by Sir John Herschel in his Trea.tise on
Sound, as produced by the suspension bridge acros&
the Menai strait in Wales. "T.he sound of a blow
with a hammer," S$YB he, " on one of the JDain
piers, is returned in succession from each .of the
cross beams which support the road~way, and from
the opposite pier at a distance of five hundred
and seventy-six feet ; and in addition to this, the
sound is many times repeated between the water
and the road-way. The effect is a series of sounds
which may be thus written: the first retum is'
Fig. 51.
~rrirtrrrrrrr rrririrrr
sharp and strong from the road-way overhead; the
rattling which succeeds dies away rapidly, but the
single repercussion from the opposite pier is very
strong, and is succeeded by a faint palpitation, re-
peating the sound at the rate of twenty-eight times
in five seconds, aud which, therefore, corresponds
to a distance of a hundred and eighty-four feet, or
very nearly the double interval from the road-way
to the water. Thus it appears that in the reper-
'''"'"'',Coogle
SUliTBRRANEAN BCHO. 227
cussion between the water and road-way, that from
the latter only affects the ear, the line drawn from
the auditor to the water being too oblique fur the
sound to diverge sufficiently in that direction. An-
other peculiarity deserves especial notice, namely,
that the echo from the opposite pier is best heard
when the auditor stands precisely opposite to the
middle of the breadth of the pier, and strikes just
on that point. As it deviates to one or the other
side, the return is proportionally fainter, and is
scarcely heard by him when his station is a little
beyond the extreme edge of the pier, though an-
other person, stationed (on the same side of the
water) at an equal distance from the central point,
so as to have the pier betweep them, hearB'it well."
A remarkable subterranean echo is often heard
when the hoofs of a horse or the wheels of a car-
riage pass over particular spots of ground. This
sound is frequently very similar to that which is
produced in passing over an arch or vault, and is
commonly attributed to the existence of natural or
artificial caves beneath. As such caves have often
been constructea in times of war as places of secu-
rity for persons and property, many unavailing-
attempts.have been made to discover hidden trea.;.
sures where their locality seemed to be indicated
by subterraneous sounds. But though these
sounds are sometimes produced by exca~.vations in
the ground, yet they generally arise from the nature
of the materials of which the ground is composed,
and from their manner of combination. If the
hollow of a road has been filled up with broken
rock, or with large water-worn stones, having hol-
lows either left entirely empty, or filled up with
P2
o''""' ,,Coogle
' .
228 LETTERS ON N.\TURA.L MAGIC.
Jllaterials of different density, then the sound will
be refl.ected in passing from the loose to the dense
materials, and there will arise' a great number of
echoes•reaching the ear in rapid succession, and
forming by their union a hollow rumbling sound.
This principle has been very successfully applied
by Sir John Herschel to explain the subterranean
sounds with which every traveller is familiar who
has visited the ~olfaterra, near Naples. When
the ground at a particular place is struck violently
by throwing a large stone against it, a peculiar
hollow sound is distinctly heard. This sound has
been ascribed by some geologists to the existence
of a great vault communicating with the ancient
seat of the volcano, by other writers to a rever-
beration from the surrounding hills with which it
is nearly concentric, and by others to the porosity
of the ground. Dr. Daubeny, who says that the
hollow sound is heard when any part of the Sol(a-
terra is struck, accounts for it by supposing that
the hill is not made up of one entire rock, but of
a number of detached blocks, wl1ich, hanging as it
were by each other, form a sort of vault over the
abyss within which the volcanic operations are
going on*. Mr. Forbes, who has given the latest
and most interesting description of this singular
volcano t, agrees in opinion with Dr. Daubeny,
while Mr. Scrope t and Sir John Herschel concur
in opinion that no such cavities exist. " It seems ·
most probable," says the l~tter, " that the hollow
• Description of Volcanoes, p. IiO.
1" Edinburgh Journal of Scitnct>, N. Series, No. i. p. 124.
t Considerations on Voleanoes, and Edinburgh Journal
(l/ Science, No. u. p. 2611 and No, xiv. p. 265.
o''""' ,,Coogle
MOMENTARY DEAFNESS. 229
reve~beration is nothing more than an assemblage
of partial echoes arising from the reflexion of suc-
cessive portions of the original sound in its pro-
gress through the soil at the innumerable half-co-
herent surfaces composing it : were the whole soil
a mass of sand, these reflexions would be so strong
and frequent as to destroy the whole impulse, in
too short an interval to allow of a distinguishable
after sound. It is a case analogous to that of a
strong light, thrown into a milky medium or smoky
atmosphere; the whole medium appears to shine
.with a nebulous undefined light. This is to the
eye what such a hollow sound is to the ear"'."
It has been recently shown by M. Savart, that
the human ear is so extremely sensible as to be
capable of appreciating sounds which arise from
.about twenty-jour thousand vibrations in a second,
and consequently, that it can hear a sound which
la~ts only the twenty-four thousandth part of a
second. Vibrations of such frequency afford only
a shrill squeak or chirp; and Dr. Wollaston has
shown that there are many individuals with their
sense of hearing entire, who are altogether insen-
sible to such acute sounds, though others are pain-
fully affected by them. Nothing, as Sir John
Herschel remarks, can be more surprising than to
see two persons, neither of them deaf, the one com-
plaining of the penetrating shrillness of a sound,
while the other maintains there is no sound at all.
Dr. Wollaston has also shown that this is true
also of very grave sounds ; so that the hearing or
11ot hearing of musical notes at both extremities of
the scale seems to depend wholly on the pitch or
• Art. Sound, Eucycl. Metrop.§ 110.
o''""' ,,Coogle
230 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
frequency of vibration constituting the note, and
not upon the intensity or loudness of the noise.
This affection of the ear sometimes appears in
cases of common deafness, where a shrill tone of
voice, such as that of women and children, is often
better heard than the loud and deeper tone of men.
Dr. Wollaston remarked, that when the mouth
and nose are shut, the tympanum or drum of the
ear may be so exhausted by a forcible attempt to
take breath by the expansion of the chest, the
pressure of the external air upon the membrane
gives it such a tension that the ear becomes ineen-
sible to grave tones, without losing in any degree
the perception of sharper sounds. Dr. Wollaston
found, that after he had got into the habit of
making the experiment, eo as to be able to produce
a great d~ee of exhaustion, hie ears were insen-
sible to all sounds below E, marked by the base
clef. " If I strike the table before me," says he,
"with the end of my finger, the whole board sounds
with a deep dull note. If I strike it with my nail,
there is also at the same time a sharp sound pro-
duced by quicker vibrations of parts around the
point of contact. When the ear is exhausted, it
.hears only the latter sound, without perceiving in
any degree the 4eeper note of the whole table. In
the same manner, in listening to the sound of a
carriage, the deeper rumbling noise of the body is
no longer heard by an exhausted ear; but the rattle
of a chain or loose screw remains atleast as audible
as before exhaustion." Dr. Wollaston supposes
that this excessive tension of the drum of the ear,
when produced by the compressed air in the diving-
bell, will also produce a corresponding deafness to
o''""' ,,Coogle
DEAFNESS PRODUCED IN DIVI:oqG BELLS. 231
lcnv tones. This curious experiment has been since
made by Dr. Colladon, when descending in the
diving-bell at Howth, in 1820. " We descended,,
says he, " so slowly that we did uot notice the
motion of the bell ; but as .aoon as the bell was
immersed in water, we felt about the ears and the
forehead a sense of pressure, which continued in-
creasing during some minutes. I did not, however,
.
experience any pain in the ears ; but my compa-
nion suffered so much that we were obliged to stop
our descent for a short time. To remedy that in-
convenience, the workmen instructed us, after
having closed our nostrils and mouth, to endeavour
to swallow, and to restrain our respiration for some
moments, in order that, by this exertion, the in-
ternal air might act on the Eustachian tube. My
companion, however, having tried-it, found himself
very little relieved by this remedy. After some
minutes, we resumed our descent. My friend suf-
fered considerably; he was pale; his lips were
totally discoloured; his appearance was that of a
man on the point of fainting ; he was in involun-
tary low spirits, owing, perhaps, to the violence of
the pain, added to that kind of apprehension which
our situation unavoidably inspired. This appeared
to me the more remarkable, as my case was totally
the reverse. I was in a state ofexcitement resem-
bling the effect of some spirituous liquor. I suf-
fered no pain ; I experienced only a strong pres1ure
roqn.d my head, as if an iron circle had been bound
about it. I spoke with the workmen, and had
some difficulty in hearing them. This difficulty of
hearing rose to such a height, th.at during three
or four minutes I could not hear them speak. I
o''""' ,,Coogle
1232 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
could not, indeed, hear myself speak, though I
spoke as l9udly as. possible ; nor did even the
great noise caused by the violence of the current
against the sides of the bell reach my ears."
The effect thus described by Dr. Colladon is
different from that anticipated by Dr. Wollaston.
He was not merely deaf to low tones, but to all
sounds whatever; and I have found, by repeated
experiment, thflt my own ears become perfectly in-
sensible even to the shrill tones ofthe female voice,
and of the voice of a child, when the drum of the
ear is thrown into a state of tension by yawning.
With regard to sounds of high pitch at the other
extremity of the scale, Dr. Wollaston has met with
persons, whose hearing was in other respects per-
fect, who never heard"the chirping of the G!'yllus
campestris, which commonly occurs in hedges
during a summer's evening, or that of the house-
cricket, or the squeak of· the bat, or the chirping
of the common house-sparrow. The note of the
bat is a full oetave higher than that of the sparrow;
and Dr. Wollaston believes that the note of some
insects may reach one octave more, as there are
sounds decidedly higher than that of a small pipe,
one-fourth ofan inch in length, which he conceives
cannot be far from six octaves above the miudle E
of the piano-forte. "The suddenness of the tran-
sition," says Dr. Wollaston, "from perfect hearing
to total want of perception, occasions a degree of
surprise, which renders an experiment on this sub-
ject with a series of small pipes among several
persons rather amusing. It is curious to observe
the change of feeling manifested by various indi-
viduals of the party, in succession, as the sounds
INAUDIBILITY OF CBB.TAIN SOUNDS, 233
approach and pass the limits of their hearing.
Those who enjoy a temporary triumph are often
compelled in their tum to acknowledge to how
short a distance their little superiority extends."
In concluding his interesting paper on this subject,
Dr. Wollaston conjectures that animals, like the
grylli (whose powers of hearing appear to com-
mence nearly where ours terminate), may have
the power of hearing still sharp~r sounds which at
present we do not know to exist, and that there
be other insects having nothing in common with
us, but who are endowed with a power of exciting,
and a sense of perceiving vibrations which make
no impression upon-our organs, while their organs
are equally insensible to the slower vibrations to
which we are accustomed.
With the view of studying the class of sounds
inaudible to certain ears, we would recommend it to
the young naturalist to examine the sounds emitted
by the insect tribe, both in relation to their effect
upon the human ear, and to the mechanism by
which they are produced. The Cicadre or locusts
in North America appear, from the observations
of Dr. Hildreth*', to be furnished with a bagpipe
on which they play a variety of notes. " When
any one passes," says- he, " they make a great noise
and screaming with their air-bladder or bagpipes.
These bags are placed under, and rather behind,
the wings in the axilla, something in the manner
of using the bagpipes with the bags under the arms
-I could compare them to nothing else; and, in-
. deed, I suspect the first inventor of the instrument
borrowed his ideas from.some insect of this kind.
• Edinbur9h Journal of Scienct>, No. xvii., p. ns.
o''""' ,,Coogle
234 LETTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
They play a variety of notes and sounds, one of
which nearly imitates the scream of the tree toad."
Among the acoustic wonders .of the natural
world may be ranked the· vocal powers of the statue
ofMemnon,. the son of Aurora, which modern dis-
coveries have withdrawn from among the fab,es of
ancient Egypt. The history of this remarkable
statue is involved in much obscurity. Although
Strabo affirms that it was overturned by an earth-
quake, yet as Egypt exhibits no traces of such a
convulsion, it has been generally believed that the
statue was mutilated by Cambyses. Ph. Casselius,
in his diBSertation on vocal or speaking stones,
quotes the remark of the scholiast in Juvcnal,
" that, when mutilated by Cambyses, the statue.
which saluted both the sun and the king, afterwards
saluted only the sun." Philostratus, in his life of
Apollo, informs us, that the statue looked to the
east, and that it spoke as soon as the rays of the
rising sun fell upon its mouth. Pausanias, who
saw the statue in its dismantled state, says, that it
is a statue of the sun, that the Egyptians call it
Phamenophis, and not Memnon, and that it emits
sounds every morning at sunrise, which can be
C()TTI,pared only to that ofthe breaking ofthe string
of a lyre. Strabo speaks only of a single sound
which he heard; but Juvenal, who had probably
heardit often during his stay in Egypt, describes
it as if it emitted several sounds.
Dimidio magicm resonant ubi Memnone chordm.
Where broken Memnon sounds his magic strings.
The simple sounds which issued from the statue
were, in the progress oftime, magnified into intel-
ligible words, and even into an oracle of seven
o''""' ,,Coogle
VOCAL STATUE OF MEHNON. 235
verses, and this prodigy has been recorded in a
Greek inscription on the left leg of the statue. But
though this new faculty of the colossus was evi-
dently the contrivance of the Egyptian priests, yet
we are not entitled from this to call in question the
simple and perfectly credible fact that it emitted
sound!!. This property, indeed, it seems to pos-
sess at the present day ; for we learn•, that an
English traveller, Sir A. Smith, accompanied with
a numerous escort, examined the statue, and that
at six o'clock in the morning he heard very dis-
tinctly the sounds which had been eo celebrated in
antiquity. He asserts that this sound does not
proceed from the statue but from the pedestal ; and
·he expresses his belief that it arises from the im-
pulse of the air upon the stones of the pedestal,
which are arranged so as to produce this surprising
effect. This singular description is, to a certain
extent, confirmed by the description of Strabo, who
says, that he was quite certain that he heard a sound
which proceeded either from the base, or from the
colossus, or from some one of the assistants. As
there were no Egyptian priests in the escort of Sir
A. Smith, we may now safely reject this last, and,
for many centuries, the most probable hypothesis.
The explanation suggested by Sir A. Smith had
been previously given in a more specific form by
M. Dussaulx, the translator of Juvenal. "The
statue," says he, " being hollow, the heat of the
·sun heated the air which it contained, and this air,
issuing at some crevice produced the sounds of
which the priests gave their own interpretation."
Rejecting this explanation, M. Langles, in his
* Revue Eneyelopedique, 1621, tome ix.p. ~92.
o''""' ,,Coogle
··,
236 LETTERS ON NATUR.AJ. MAGIC.
disse;·tation on the vocal statue of Memnon, and
M. Sal·:erte, in his work on the occult sciences,
have ascribed the sounds entirely toEgyptian priest-
craft, and have even gone so far as to describe the
mechanism by which the statue not only emitted
sounds, but. articulated distinctly the intonations
appropriate to the seven Egyptian vowels, and con-
secrated to the seven planets. M. Langles conceives
that the sounds may be produced by a series of
hammers, which strike either the granite itself, or
sonorous stones like those which have been long
used in China for musical instruments. M. Salverte
improves this imperfect apparatus, by supposing
that there might be adapted to these hammers a
clepsydra, or water-clock, or any other instrument
:(itted to measure time, and so ~onstructed as to
put the 'hammers in motion at sunrise. Not satis-
fied with this supposition, he conjectures that the
spring of all this mechanism was to be found in
the art of concentrating the rays ofthe sun, which
was well known to the ancients. Between the lips
of the statue, or in some less remarkable part of it
concealed from view by its height, he conceives an
aperture to be perforated, containing a lens or a
mirror capable of condensing the rays of the rising
sun upon one or more metallic levers, which by
their ex11ansion put in motion the seven hammers
in succession. Hence he explains why the sound.s
were emitted only at sunrise, and when the solar
rays fell upon the mouth of the statue, and why
they were never again heard till the sun returned
to the eastern horizon. As a piece of mechanism,
this contrivance is defective in not providing for
the change in the sun's amplitude, which is very
o''""' ,,Coogle
SOUNDS ·IN GRA!'IITE ROCKS. 237
considerable even in Egypt, for as the statue and
the lens are both fixed, and as the sounds were
heard at all seasons of the year, the same lens
which threw the midsummer rays of the sun upon
the hammers could not possibly throw upon them
his rays in winter. But even if the machinery
were perfect, it is obvious that it could not have
survived the mutilation of the statue, and could
not, short of a miracle, have performed its part in
the time of Sir A. Smith.
If we abandon the idea of the whole being a
trick of the priesthood, which has l>een generally
done, and which the recent observations of Sir A.
Smith authorize us to do, we must seck some na-
tural cause for the phenomena similar to that sug-
gested by Dussaulx. It is curious to observe how
the study of nature gradually dispels the conse-
crated delusions ofages, and reduces to the level of
ordinary facts what time had invested with all the
characters ofthe supernatural : and in the present
case it is no less remarkable that the problem of
the statue of Memnon should have been first solved
by means ofan observation made by a solitary tra-
veller wandering on the banks of the Orinoco.
" The granitic rock," says Baron Humboldt, "on
which we lay, is one of those where travellers on
the Orinoco have heard from time to time, towards
sunrise, subterraneous sounds resembling those of
the organ. The missionaries call these stones loxas
de musica. ' It is witchcraft,' said our young
Indian pilot. We never ourselves heard these
mysterious sounds either at Carichana Vieja or in
t11e upper Orinoco : but from information given
us by witnesses worthy of belief, the existence of
o''""' ,,Coogle
238 LllTTBRS 0!'1 NATURAL lllAGIC.
a phenomenoB that seems to depend on a certain
state of the atmosphere cannot be denied. The
shelves of rock are full of very narrow and deep
crevices. They are heated during theday to about
50°. I often found their temperature at the sur-
face during the night at 39°, the surrounding at-
mosphere being at 28°. It may easily be conceived
that the difference of temperature between the
subterraneous and the external air attains it&-
·maximum about sunrise, or at that moment which
is at the same time farther from the period of the
maximum of the heat of the preceding day. May
not these sounds of an organ, then, which are
heard when a person sleeps upon the rock, his ear
in contact with the stone, be the effect of a cur-
rent of air that issues out through the crevices?
Does not the impulse of the air against the elastic
spangles of mica that intercept the crevices contri-
bute to modify the sounds ? May we not admit
that the ancient inhabitants of Egypt, in passing
incessantly up and down the Nile, had made the
same observation on some rock of the Thebai~
and that the music of the rocks there led to the
jugglery of the priests in the statue of Memnon ?'•
This curious case of the production ofsounds in
granite rocks at sunrise might have been regarded
as a transatlantic wonder which was not applicable
to Egypt ; but. by a singular coincidence of obser-
vation, MM. Jomard, Jollois, and Devilliers~ who
were travelling in Egypt nearly about the same
time that M. Humboldt was traversing the wilds
of South Ame:rica, heard, at su.,nrise, in a monu-
ment of granite, situated ncar the centre of the
spot on which the pa:lace of Camac stands, a rwise
o''""' ,,Coogle
SOUNDS IN GRANITE ROCKS. 239
resembling that of a breaking string, the very ex-·
pression by which Pausanias characterizes the
sound in the Memnonian granite. The travellers
regarded these sounds as arising from the trans-
mission of rarefied air through the crevices of a
sonorous stone, and they were of the same opinion
with Humboldt, that these sounds might have sug-
gested to the Egyptian priests the juggleries of the
Memnonium. Is it not strange that the Prussian
and the French travellers should not have gone a
step farther, and solved the problem of two thou-
sand years, by maintaining that the sound of the
statue of Memnon was itself a natural phenomenon,
or a granite sound elicited at sunrise by the very
same causes which operated on the Orinoco and
in the temple of Camac, in place of regarding it
as a trick in imitation of natural sounds ? If, as
Humboldt supposes, the ancient inhabitants of
Egypt had, in passing incessantly up and down
the Nile, become familiar with the music of the
granite rocks ofthe Thebaid, how could the imita-:-
tion of such natural and familiar sounds be re-
garded by the priests as a means of deceiving the
people? There could be nothing marvellous in a
colossal statue of granite giving out the very same
sounds that were given out at the same time of the
day by a granite rock ; and in place of reckoning
it a supernatural fact, they could regard it in no
other light than as the duplicate of a well-known
natural phenomenon. It is a mere conjecture,
however, that such sounds were common in the
Thebaid; and it is therefore probable that a granite
rock, possessing the property of emitting sounds
at sunrise, had been discovered by the priests, who
o''""' ,,Coogle
240 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
were at the same time the philosophers of Egypt,
and that the block had been employed in the for-
mation of the Memnonian statue for the purpose
of impressing upon it a supernatural character,
and enabling them to maintain their influence over
a credulous people.
The inquiries of recent travellers have enabled
us to corroborate these views, and to add another
remarkable 'example of the influence of subterra-
neous sounds over superstitious minds. About
three leagues to the north ofTor in Arabia Petrrea,
i11·a mountain, within the bosom of which the most
singular sounds have been heard. The Arabs of
the Desert ascribe .these sounds to a convent of
monks preserved miraculously underground ; and
the sound is supposed to be that of the Nakous,
II. long narrow metallic ruler suspended horizon-
tally, which the priest strikes with a hammer for
the purpose of assembling the monks to prayer.
A Greek was said to have seen the mountain open,
and to have descended into the subterranean coil-
vent, where he found fine gardens and delicious
water; and, in order to give proof of his descent,
he produced some fragments of consecrated bread,
which he pretended to have brought from the sub-
terranean convent. The inhabitants of Tor like-
wise declare that the camels are not only frightened
but rendered furious when they hear these subter-
raneous sounds.
M. Seetzen, the first European traveller who
visited this extraordinary mountain, set out from
'Vodyel Nackel on the 17th of June, at five o'clock
in the morning. He was ac.:ompanied by a Greek
Christian and some Bedouin Arabs, and after a
o''""' ,,Coogle
MUSICAL MOUNTAIN OF EL NAKOUS. 241
quarter of an hour's walk they reached the foot
of a majestic rock of hard sandstone. The moun-
tain itself was quite bare and entirely composed of
it. He found inscribed upon the rock several
Greek and Arab names, and also some Koptic
characters, which proved that it had been resorted
to for centuries. About noon the party reached
the foot of the mountains called Nakous, where
at the foot of a ridge they beheld an insulated
peaked rock. This mountain presented upon two
of its sides two sandy declivities about 150 feet
high, and so inclined that the white and slightly
· adhering sand which rests upon its surface is
· scarcely able to support itself; and when the
scorching heat of the sun destroys its feeble cohe-
sion, or when it is agitated by the smallest motions,
it slides down the two acclivities. These declivities
unite behind the insulated rock,. forming an acute
angle, and, like the adjacent surfaces, they are
covered with steep rocks. which consist chiefly of
a white and friable freestone.
The first sound which greeted the ears of the
travellers took place at an hour and a quarter after
noon. They had climbed with great difficulty as
far as the sa.ndy declivity, a height of seventy
or eighty feet, and had rested beneath the rocks
where the pilgrims are accustomed to listen to the
sounds.
While in the act of climbing, M. Seetzen heard
the sound from beneath his knees,· and hence he
was led to think that the sliding of the sand was
the cause of the sound, and not the effect of the
·vibration which it .occasioned. At three o'clock
the sound _became louder, and continued six m,i-
Q
o''""' ,,Coogle
242 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
nutes, and after having ·ceased for ten minutes, it
was again heard. The sound appeared to have the
greatest resemblance to that of the humming-top,
rising and falling like that ofan Eolian harp. Be-
lieving that he had discovered the true origin ofthe
sound, M. Seetzen was anxious to repeat the expe-
riment, and with this view he climbed with the
utmost difficulty to the higll.est rocks, and, sliding,
down as fast as he could, he endeavoured, with the
help of his hands and feH, to set.the sand in motion.
The effect thus produced far exceeded his expecta-
tions, and the sand in rolling beneath him made
so loud a noise, that the earth seemed to tremble to
such a degree that he states he should certainly
have been afraid if he had been ignorant of the
cause.
M. Seetzen throws out some conjectures re-
specting the cause of these sow1ds. Does the rol-
ling layer of sand, says he, act like the fiddle-bow,
which on being rubbed upon a plate of glass raises
and distributes into regular figures the sand with
which the plate is covered? Does the adherent
and fixed layer of sand perform here the part of
the plate of glass, and the neighbouring rooks
that of the sounding body ? We cannot pretend
to answer these questions, but we trust that some
philosopher competent to the task will have an
opportunity of examining these interesting pheno-
mena with more attention, and describing 'them
with greater accuracy.
The only person, so far as I can learn, who has
visited El-Nakous since the time of Seetzen, is
Mr. Gray, of University College, Oxford; but he
has not added much to the information acquiredby
o''""' ,,Coogle
MUSICAL 'MOUNTAIN OFEL·NAKOUS, 243
his predecessor. During the first visit which he
made to the place, he heard at the end of a quarter
of an hour a low continuous murmuring sound be-
neath his feet, which gradually changed into pul-
sations as it became louder, so as to resemble the
striking of a clock, and at the end of five minutes
it became so strong as to detach the sand. Re-
turning to the spot next day, he heard the sound
still louder than before. He could not observe
any crevices by which the external air could pene-
trate ; and as the sky was serene and the air calm,
he was satisfied that the sounds could not arise
from this cause•.
* See Edinburgh Journal of Science, No. xi. p. 153; and
No. xiii. puge 51.
Q2
o''""' ,,Coogle
244 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
LETTER X.
Mtcha,;ical i11vmtion1 of the ancient• few in number-An-
citnl and modern feall of Blrength-Feal• of Eckeberg
particularly de~cribed-General erplana/iQn of them-
Real featl of 1lrength performed" by Thoma~ Topham-
Rema~·kable power oflifting heavy per1om when tlu: lung•
are injlated-Bel~:rmi'• feat ofaustaining p!Jramids ofmen
-Deception of u·alking along the ceiling in an im•erled
po1ition-Pneumatic apparatu1 in the fool of the houu-
. jlg for enabling it to u·alk in opposilion to gravity-De-
•cription of II.e ana!ogou1 apparalul employer/ by the gecko
lizard fur the aame purpote-Appuratu1 uud b!J the
Echi11ei1 remora., Ol' sud<ing:filh.
THE mechanical knowledge of the ancients was
principally theoretical, and though they seem to
have constructed some minor pieces of mechanism
which were sufficient to delude the ignorant, yet
there is no reason for believing that they had exe-
cuted any machinery that was capable of exciting
much surprise, either by its ingenuity or its mag-
nitude. The properties of the mechanical powers,
however, seem to have been ~uccessfully employed
in performing feats of strength which were beyond
the reach even of strong men, and which could not
fail to excite the greatest wonder when exhibited
by persons of ordinary size.
Firmus, a native of Seleucia, who was executed
by the Emperor Aurelian for e$pousing the cause
o''""' ,,Coogle
PEATS OF ECKEBERG. 245
· of Zenobia, was celebrated for his feats of strength.
In his account of the life of Finnus, who lived in
the third century, Vopiscus infonns us, that he
could suffer iron to be forged upon an anvil placed
upon his breast. In doing this he lay upon his
back, and resting his feet and shoulders against
some support, his whole body formed an arch, as
we shall afterwards more varticularly explain.
Until the end of the sixteenth century, the exhibi-
tion of such feats does not seem to have been
common. About the year 1703, a native of Kent,
of the name of Joyce, exhibited such feats of
strength inLondon and other parts of England,
that he received the name of the second Sampson.
·His own personal strength was very great; but he
had also discovered, without the aid of theory,
various positions of his body in which men even
of common strength could perform very surprising
feats. He drew against horses, and raised enor-
mous weights; but as he actually exhibited his
power in ways whichevinced the enonnoue strength
of his own muscles, all his feats were ascribed to
the same cause. In the course of eight or ten
years, however, his methods were discovered, and
many individuals of ordinary strength exhibited a
number of his principal performances, though in a
manner greatly inferior to Joyce.
Some time afterwards, John Charles Van Ecke-
berg, a native of Harzgerode, in Anhalt, travelled
. through·Europe under the appellation of Sampson,
exhibitingvery remarkable examples ofhis strength.
This, we believe, is the same person whose feats
are particularly described by Dr. Desaguliers. He
was a man of the middle size, and of ordinary
o''""' ,,Coogle
2~6 LETTERS ON NATlJRAL MAGIC.
!!tTength; and as Dr. Del!lllguliers was convinced
that his feats were exhibitions- of skill and not of
strength, he was desirous of discovering his me·
thode, and with this view he went·to see him, ac·
companied by the Marquis of Tullibardine, Dr.
Alexander Stuart, and Dr. Pringle, and his own
mechanical operator. They placed themselves
round the German, so as to be able to observe ac-
curately all that he did, and their success was so
great, that they were able to perform most of the
feats the sameevening by themselves,and almost all
the rest when they had provided the proper appa-
ratus. Dr. Desaguliers. exhibited some of the ex•
periments before.the Royal Society, and has given
such a distinct explanation of the principles on
which they depend, that we shall endeavour to
give a popular account of them.
1. The performer llllt upon an inclined board
AB, placed upon a frame CDE, with his feet abut·
Fi!J. 52.
ting against the upright board C. Rou'?d hi~ loins
was placed a strong girdle F G, to the non nng of
which at G was fastened a rope by means of a
hook. The rope passed between his legs through
a hole in the board C, and several men or two
PEATS OF BCKEBBJlG, 247
horses, pulling at the other end of the rope, were
unable to draw the performer out of his place. His
hands at G seemed to pull against the men, but
they were of no advantage to him whatever. _
2. Another of the German feats is shown in
Fig. 53. Having fixed the rope above-mentioned
Fig. 53.
to a strong post at A, and made it pass through a
fixed iron eye at B, to the ring in his girdle, he
planted his feet against the post at B, and raised
himself from the ground by the rope, as shown in
the figure. He then suddenly stretched out his legs,
and broke the rope, falling back on a feather-bed
at C, spread out to receive him.
3. In imitation of Firmus, he laid himself down
on the ground, ae shown in Fig. 54, and when an
anvil A was placed upon his breast, a man ham-
o''""' ,,Coogle
248 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
Fi9. 54.
mered with all his force the piece of iron B, with a
sledge hammer; and sometimes two smiths cut in
two with chisels a great cold bar of iron laid upon _
the anvil. At other times a stone of huge dimen-
sions, half of which is shown at C, was laid upon
his belly, and broken with a blow of the great
hammer. .
4. The performer then placed his shoulders upon
one chair, and his heels upon another, as in Fig.
55, forming, with his backbone, thighs, and legs,
an arch springing from its abutments at A·and B.
One or two men then stood upon hia belly, rising
np and down while the performer breathed. A
stone, one and a half feet long, one f~t broad,
and half a foot thick, was then laid upon his belly,
and brokenby a sledge hammer, an operation which
may be performed with much less danger than
when his back touched the ground as in Fig. 54.
o''""' ,,Coogle
FE.,TS OF ECKEBIRG. 249
Fig. 55.
5. His next feat was to lie dovm on the ground,
as in Fig. 56 ; a man being then placed on his
knees, he draws his heels towards his body, and
raising his knees, he lifts up the man gradually, till
having brought his knees perpendicularly under
him, as in Fig. 57, he raises his own body up, and
placing his arms around the ~an's legs, he rises
with him, and eets him down on some low table or
eminence of the same height as his knees. This
feat he sometimes performed with two men-in place
of one.
o,9""' ,,Coogle
250 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC•
.
~J
~~
. )
Fig. 56.
6. The last, and apparently the most wonderful,
performance of the German is shown in Fig. 58,
where he appears to raise a cannon A placed upon
a scale, the four ropes of the scale being fixed to a
o,, ,Coogle
BATS OP ECKBBBllG. 251
Fig. 511.
rope or chain attached to his girdle in the mannet
already described. Previous to the thing of the
ropes, the cannon and scale rest upon two rollers
B, C, but when all is ready, the two rollers are
knoeked from beneath the scale, and the cannon is
sustained by the strength of his loins..
The German also exhibitedhis strength in twiat.
ing into a screw a fiat piece ofiron like A, Fig. 59.
He first bent the iron into a right angle as at B;
and then wrapping his handkerchief about its
broad upper end. he held that end in his left hand,
and with his right applied to the otherend, twisted
o''""' ,,Coogle
!52 LETTERS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
Jlif1. 59.
about the "angular point, ~s shown at C. Lord
Tullibardine succeeded in doing the same thing,
and even untwisted one of the irons which the Ger-
man ltad twisted.
It would lead into details by no means popular
were I to give a minute explanation of the mecha-
nical principles.upon which these feats depend. A
few general observations will perhaps be sufficient
for ordinary readers. The feats No. 1, 2, and 6,
depend entirely on the natural strength of the
bones of the pelvis, which form a double arch,
which it would require an immense force to break,
by any external pressure directed to the centre of
the arch; and as the legs and thighs are capable of
sustaining four or five thousand pounds when they
stand quite upright, the performer has no difficulty
in resisting the force of two horses, or of sustaining
the weight of a cannon weighing two or three thou-
sand pounds.
o''""' ,,Coogle
FEATS OF ECKEBERG, 253
The feat 'of the anvil is certainly a very surpris-
ing one. The difficulty, however, really consists
in sustaining the anvil, for when this is done, the
effect of the hammering is nothing. If the anvil
were a thin piece of iron, or even two or three
times heavier than the hammer, the performer
would be killed by a few blows; but the blows are
scarcely felt when the anvilis very heavy, for the
more matter the anvil has, the greater is its_
inertia,
and it is the less liable to be struck out of its place;
for when it has received by the blow the whole
momentum of the hammer, its velocity will be so
much less than that of the hammer, as its quantity
of matter is greater. When the blow, indeed, is
struck, the man feels less ofthe weight of the anvil
than he did before, because in the reaction of the
stone all the parts of it round about the hammer
rise towards the blow. This property is illustrated
by the well-known experiment of laying a stick
with its ends upon two drinking-glasses full of
water, and striking the stick downwards in the
middle with an iron bar. The stick will in this case
be broken without breaking the glasses or spilling
the water. But if the stick is struck upwards, as
if to throw it up in the air, the glasses will break
if the blow be strong, and if the blow is not very
quick, the water will be spilt without breaking the
glasses.
When the performer supports a man upon his
belly as in Fig. 55, he does it by means of the
strong arch formed by his backbone, and the bones
of his legs and thighs. If there were room for
them, he could bear three or four, or, in their stead,.
a great stone to be broken with one blow.
o''""' ,,Coogle
254 LETTBRS "ON NATURAL KAGJC.
A number of feats of real and extraordinary
strength were exhibited, about a century ago, in
London, by Thomas Topham, who was five feet ten
inches high, and about 31 years of age. He was
entirely ignorant of any of the methods for mak-
ing his strength appear more surprising, and he
often performed by his own natural powers what
he learned had been done by ot·hers by artificial
means. A diatressing example of this 0ccurred in
his attempt to imitate the feat of the German
Sampson by pulling against horses. Ignorant of
the method which we have already described, he
aeated himself on the ground with his fet>t against
two stirrups, and by the weight of his body he
succeeded in pulling against a single horse ; but in
attempting to pull against two horses, he was lifted
out of his place, and one of his knees was shat-
tered against the stirrups, so as to deprive him of
most of the strength of one of his legs. The fol-
lowing are the feats of real strength which Dr.
Desaguliers saw him perform :- ·
1. Having rubbed his fingers with coal-ashes to
keep them from •lipping, he rolled up a very strong
and large pewter plate.
2. Having laid seven or eight short and strong
pieces of tobacco-pipe on the first and third finger,
he broke them by the force of his middle finger.
3. He broke the bowl of a strong tobacco-pipe
placed between his first and third finger, by press-
ing his fingers together sideways.
4. Having thrust such another bowl under his
garter, his legs being bent, he broke it to pieces
by the tendons of his hams without altering the
bending of his leg. ·
o''""' ,,Coogle
FEATS OF STRENGTH OF TOPHAM, 255
5. He lifted with his teeth, and held in a hori-
zontal position for a considerable time, a table six
feet long, with half a hundred weight hanging at
the end ofit. The feet of the table rested against
his knees.
6. Holding in his right hand an iron kitchen
poker three feet long and three inches round, he
struck upon his bare left arm, between the elbow
and the wrist, till he bent the poker nearly to a
right angle.
7. Taking a similar poker; and holding the ends
of it in his hands, and the middle against the ~ack
of his neck, he brought both ends of it together
before him, and he then pulled it almost straight
again. This last feat was the most difficult, be-
cause the muscles which separate the arms hori-
zontally from each other are not so strong as
those which bring them together.
8. He broke a rope a"bout two inches in circum-
ference, which was partly wound about a cylinder
four inches in diameter, having fastened the other
end of it to straps that went over his shoulder.
9. Dr. Desaguliers saw him lift a rolling-stone
of about 800lb. weight with his hands only, stand-
ing in a frame above it, and taking hold of a frame
fastened to it. Hence Dr. Des11guliers gives the
following relative view of the strengths of indivi-
duals:-
Strength ofthe weakest men • 125 lbs.
Strength of very strong men . 400
Strength of Topham . . 800
The weight of Topham was about 200.
One of the most remarkable and inexplicable
experiments relath·e to the strength of the human
o''""' ,,Coogle
,
2S6 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
frame, which you have yourself seen and admired,
is that in which a heavy man is raised with the
greatest facility, when he is lifted up the instant
that his own lungs and those of the persons who
raise him are inflated with air. This experiment
was, I believe, first shown in England a few years
ago by Major H. who saw it performed in a large
party at Venice, under the direction ofan officer of
the American Navy. As Major H. performed if
more than once in my presence, I shall describe as
nearly as possible the method which he prescribed.
The heaviest person in the party lies down upon
two chairs, his legs being supported by the one
and his back by the other. Four persons, one at
each leg, and one at each shoulder, then try to raise
him, and theyfind his dead weight to be very great,
from 'the difficulty they experience in supporting
him. When he is replaced in the chair, each ofthe
four persons takes hold of the body as before, and
the person to be lifted gives two signtls by clap-
ping his hands. • At the first signal he himselfand
the four lifters begin to dra'v a long and full breath, •
and when the inhalation is completed, or the lungs
filled, the second signal is given, for raising the
person from the chair. To his own surprise and
that of his bearers, he rises with the greatest faci-
lity, as if he were no heavier than a feather. On
several occasions I have observed that when one
of the bearers performs his part ill, by making the
inhalation out of time, the part of the body which
he tries to raise is left as it were behind. As you
have repeatedly seen this experiment, and have
performed the part both of the load and of the
bearer, you can testify how remarkable the effects
LIFTI:"rG HEAVY PERSONS. 257
appear to all parties, and how complete is the con•
viction, either that the load has been lightened, or
the bearer strengthened by the prescribed process.
At Venice, the experiment was perform~ in a
much more imposing manner. The heaviest man
in the party was raised and sustained upon the
points of the fore-fingers of six persons. Major H.
declared that the experiment would not succeed if
the person lifted were placed upon a board, and
the strength of the individuals applied to the board.
He conceived it necessary that the bearers should
communicate directly with the body to be raised.
I have not had an opportunity of making any ex-
periments relative to these curious facts; but whe-
ther the general effect is an illusion, or the result
of known or of new principles, the subject merits
a careful investigation.
Among the remarkable exhibitions of mechani-
cal strength and dexterity, we may enumerate that
of supporting pyramids of men. This exhibition
is a very ancient one. It is described, though not
very clearly, by the Roman poet Claudian, and it
has derived some importance in modem times, in
consequence of its having been performed in vari-
ous parts of Great Britain by the celebrated ·tra•
veller Belzoni, before he entered upon the more
estimable career of an explorer of Egyptian an-
tiquities. The simplest form of this feat consists
in placing a number of men on each other's
shoulders, so that each row consists of a man
fewer till they form a pyramid terminating in a
single person, upon whose head a boy is some•
times placed with his feet upwards.
Among the displays of mechanical dexterity,
II.
o''""' ,,Coogle
...
258 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
though not -grounded on any scientific principle,
may be mentioned the art of walking along the
ceiling of an apartment with the head downwards.
This exhibition, which we have witnessed in one of
the London Theatres, never failed to excite the
wonder of the audience, although the movements
of the inverted performer were not such as to in-
~pire us with any high ideas of the mechanism by
which they were effected. The following was pro-
bably the method by which the performer was
carried along the ceiling. Two parallel grooves or
openings were made in the ceiling at the same dis-
tance as the foot tracks of a person walking on
t\and. These grooves were narrower than the human
foot, so as to permit a rope, or chain, or strong
wire, attached to the feet of the performer, to pass
through the ceiling, where they were held by two
or more persons above it. In this way the in-
verted performer might be carried along by a
sliding or shuffiing motion, similar to that which
is adopted in walking in the dark, and in which
the feet aTe not lifted from tl1e ground. A more
regular motion, however, might be produced by a
contrivance for attaching the rope or chain to the
sole of the foot, at each step, and subsequently
detaching it. In this way, when the performer is
pulled against the ceiling by his left foot, he would
lift his right foot, and having made a step with it,
and planted it against the grooves, the rope would
·be attached to it, and when the rope was detached
from the left foot, it would make a similar step~
while the right foot was pulled against the ceiling.
These effects might be facilitated and rendered
more natural, by attaching to the body or to the
o''""' ,,Coogle
WALKING ALONG THE CEILING. 251
feet of the perfOTmer strong wires iuvisible to the
audience, and by using friction wheels, if a sliding
motion only is required.
A more scientific method of walking upon the
ceiling is suggested by those beautiful pneumatic
contrivances by which insects, fishes, and even
some lizards are enabled to support the weight of
their bodies against the force of gravity. The
house-fly is well known to have the power of walk-
ing in an inverted position upon the ceilings of
rooms, as well as upon the smoothest surfaces. In
this case the fly does not rest upon its legs, and
must therefore adhere to the ceiling, either by
some glutinous matter upon its feet, or by the aid
of some apparatus given it' for that purpose. In
examining the foot of the fly with a powerful
microscope, it is found to consist of two con-
R'~ : ... .
260 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
cavities, as shown in Figs. 60 and 61, the first of
which is copied from a drawing by G. Adams, pub-
lished in 1746, and the second by J. C. Keller, a
painter at Nuremberg, who drew it for a work
published in 1766. The author ofthis workmain-
tains that these concavities are only used when the
fly moves horizontally, and that, when it moves
perpendicularly or on the ceiling, they are turned
Fig.61.
up out of the way, and the progressive motion
is effected by fixing the claws shown in the
figure into the irregularities of the surface upon
which the fly moves, whether it is glass, porcelain,
or any other.substance. Sir Everard Home, how-
ever, supposes, with great reason, that fl\ese con-
cave surfaces are (like the leathern suckers used
by children for lifting stones) employed to form a
vacuum, so that the foot adheres as itwere by suc-
tion to the ceiling, and enables the insect to sup-
'port itselfin an inyerted pOsition.
•
POOT OF THE HOUSE-FLY. 261
This conclusion Sir Everard has been led to draw
from an examination of fhe foot of the Lacerta
Gecko. Sir Joseph Banks had mentioned to him
in the year 1815, that this lizard, which is a native
of the island of Java, comes out in the evening
from the roofs of the houses, and walks down the
smooth hard-polished chunam walls in search of
the flies which settle upon them, and which are its
natural food. When Sir Joseph was at Batavia~
he amused himself in catching this lizard. He
stood close to the wall at some distance from the
animal, and by suddenly scraping the wall with
a long flattened pole, he was able to bring the
animal to the ground.
Having procured from Sir Josepl1 a very large
specimen of the Gecko, which weighed 5i ounces
avoirdupois, Sir Edward Home was enabled to
ascertain the peculiar mechanism ·by which the
feet of this animal have the power of keeping hold
of a smooth hard perpendicularwall, and carry up
so heavy a weight as that of its body.
The foot of the Gecko has five toes, (as shown
in Fig. 62~) and at the end of each of them,
except the thumb, is a very sharp and highly
F ig. 62• Fig. 63.
o''""' ,,Coogle
:69 J.l!.TTBR.S ON NATURAL IIIAGIC.
curved claw. On the under surface of each toe are
sixteen transvene slits, leading to as many cavities
or pockets, the depth of which is nearly equal to
the length of the slit that forms the surface.
Fig. 64.
This structure is shown iu
Figs·. 63 aud 64, the former
representing the under sur-
face of one of the toes of the
natural size, and the latter a
toe dissected and highly mag-
nified, to show the appear-
ance of the cavities in its un-
der surface,their fringed edge,
the depth of the cavities, and
the small muscles by which
they are drawn open. The
edge ofthe pockets or cavities
is composed ofrows of a beau-
tiful fringe which are applied
to the surface on which the
animal walks against gravity,
while the pockets themselves
are pulled up by the muscles attached to them, so
as to form the cavities into suckers.
This structure Sir Everard Home found to bear
a considerable resemblance to that portion of the
head of the Ecltineis Remora, or sucking-fish, by
which it attaches itself to the shark, or the bottoms
of ships. This apparatus is· shown in Fig. 65 : it
is an oval form, and is surrounded by a broad
loose moveable edge, capable of applying itself
closely to the surface on which it is set. It con-
sists of two rows of cartilaginous plates connected
by one edge to the surface on which they are
o,, ,Coogle
FOOT OF THE GBCKO, 263
placed, the other, on the external edge, being
sen:ated like that in the cavities of the feet of the
Gecko. The two rows are separated by a thin
ligamentous partition, and the plates, being raised
or depressed by the voluntary muscles, form so
many vacua, by means of which the adhesion of
the fish -is effected.
Fig. 05.
These beautiful contrivances of Divine Wisdom
cannot fail to arrest the attention and excite the
admiration of the reader; but though there can be
little doubt that they are pneumatic suckers wrought
by the voluntary muscles of the animals to which
they belong, yet we would recommend the further
examination ofthem to the attention of those who
have good microscopes at their command.
o''""' ,,Coogle
26.4 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
LETTER XI.
M~cha~ticaJ automata oftlleancitttti-Moving tripodi-Auto-
mata of D~dalu1- WOO<Itttpig~n ofArchyta1-Automatic
clock of Charlemagn-Automata matk hy 1'urrianul for
Cllarle• r.-ca_,•, automatic carriage mode for Loui•
X Ir.--D~genne•'• IMCilattical ~acoclc- Yaucan.on'I duck
WJhich ate fll!d diguted it•footi-DuMoulin'uulomata-
Baron Kemplttt'l automaton che11-player-1Jratlling and
uniting automata-Maillardet'1 conjur~r-Bent>ji/1 derived
from the pa11ion f"r aulomala-Eramp/el of ti!Onderful
machinery:for u•efu/ purpo•~•- Duncan'• tambouring
tnachinera-Watt'• llalu~q,rning machinery-Babbage'•
calcu/atin!J. machinery.
W.E have already seen that the ancients had at-
tained some degree ofperfection in the construction
of automata orpieces of mechanism which imitated
the movements of man and the lower animals. The
tripods, which Homer• mentions as having been
constructed by Vulcan for the banqueting-hall of
the gods, advanced oftheir own accQrd to the table,
and again returned to their place. Self-moving
tripods are mentioned by Aristotle ; and Philostra-
tus informs us, in his life of Apollonius, that this
philosopher saw and admired similar pieces of
mechanism among the sages of India.
Dredalus enjoys also the reputation of having
constructed machines that imitated the motiou.s of
"' Iliad, lib. xviii. 373-378.
o''""' ,,Coogle
ARCHYTAS's WOODEN PIGEON, BTC. 26~
the human body. Some of his statues are said t()
have moved about spontaneously ; and Plato, Aris-
totle, and others have related that it was necessa•
to tie them, in order to prevent them from running
away. Aristotle speaks of a wooden Venus, which
moved about in consequence of quicksilver being
poured into its interior; but Callistratus, the tutor
of Demosthenes, states, with some probability, that
the statues of Dredalus received their motion from
the mecl1anical powers. Beckmann is of opinion
that the statues of Dlledalus differed only from
those of the early Greeks and Egyptians in having
their eyes open and their feet and hands free, and
that the reclining posture of some, and the attitude
of others, " as if ready to walk," gaTe rise to the
exaggeration that they possessed the power of loco-
motion. This opinion, however, cannot be main-
tained with any show of reason ; for if we apply
auch a principle in one case, we must apply it in all~
and the mind would be left in a state of utter scep-
ticism respecting the inventions of ancient times.
We are informed by Aulus Gellius, on the autho-
rity of Favorinus, that Archytas of Tarentum, who
flourished about four hundred years before Christ,
constructed a wooden pigeon which was capable·
of flying. Favorinus relates that, when it had
once alighted, it could not again resume its flight ;.
and Aulus Gellius adds, that it was suspended by
balancing, and animated by a concealed aura, or
spirit.
Among the earliest pieces ofmodern mechanism
was the curious water-clock presented to Charle-
magne by the Kaliph Harun a1 Raschid. In the
dial-plate there were twelve small windows corre-
sponding with the divisions of the hours. The hours
o''""' ,,Coogle
266 LETTJI:Itl ON NATURAL MAGIC.
were indicated by the opening of the windows,
which let out little metallic balls, which struck the
heur by falling upon a brazen bell. The doors con-
tinued open till twelve o'clock, when twelve little
knights, mounted on horseback, came out at the
same instant,and after paradinground the dial,shut
all the windows, and returned to their apartments"'.
The next automata of which any distinct account
bas been preaerved are those of the celebrated John
Muller, Regiomontanus, which have been men-
tioned hy Kircher, Baptista Porta, Gassendi, Lana,
and Bishop Wilkins. This philosopher is said to
have constructed an artificial eagle, which flew to
meet the Emperor Maximilian when he arrived at
Nuremberg on the '7th June, 1740. After soaring
aloft in the air, the eagle is stated to have met the
Emperor at some distance from the city, a~d to have
returned and perched upon the town gate, where it
waited his approach. When the Emperor reached
the gate, the eagle stretched out its wings, and
saluted him by an inclination of its body. Muller
is likewise reported to have constructed an _
iron fly,
which was put in motion by wheel-work, and which
flew about and leapt upon the table. At an enter-
tainment given by this philosopher to some of his
familiar friends, the fly flew from his hand, and
after performing a considerable round, it returned
again to the .hand of its master.
The Emperor Charles V., after his abdication of
the throne, amused himself in his later years with
automata of various kinds. The artist whom he
· employed was Janellus Turrianus of Cremona. It
was his custom after dinner to introduce upon the
table figures of armed men and horses. Some of
• Annales Loisiliani, Anno 807,
o''""' ,,Coogle
TURRIANUS'S AUTOMATA. 267
these beat drums, others played upon flutes, while
a third set attacked each other with spears. Some-
times he let fly wooden sparrows, which flew back
again to their nest. He also exhibited corn-
mills so extremely small that they could be con-
·Cealed in a glove, yet so powerful that they could
grind in a day as much corn as would supply eight
men with food for a day.
The next piece of mechanism of sufficient inte-
rest to merit our attention is that which was made
by M. Camus, for the amusement of Louis XlV.
when a child. It consisted ofa small coach,which
was drawn by two horses, and which contained the
figure of a lady within, with a footman and page
behind. When this machine was placed at the
extremity of a table of the proper size, the coach-
man smacked his whip, and the horses instantly set
off, moving their legs in a natural manner, and
drawing the coach after them: when the coach
reached the opposite edge of the table, it turned
sharply at a right angle, and proceeded along the
adjacent edge. As soon as it arrived opposite the
place where the king sat, it stopped ; the page
descended and opened the coach-door ; the lady
alighted, and with a curtsey presented a petition,
which she held in her hand, to the king. After
waiting some time she again curtsied and re-en-
tered the carriage. The page closed the door, and
having resumed his place behind, the coachman
· whipped his horses and drove on. The footman,
who had previously alighted, ran after the carriage
and jumped up behind into his former place.
Not content with imitating the movements of
animals, the mechanical genius ofthe 17thand 18th
o''""' ,,Coogle
.......
268 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
centuriesventured to perform bywheels and pinions
the functions of vitality. We are informed by M.
Lobat, that Gen. Degennes, a French officer who
defended the colony ofSt. Christopher's against the
English forces, constructed a peacock, which could
walk about as if alive, pick up grains ofcom from
the ground, digest them as if they had been sub-
mitted to the action of the stomach, and afterwards
discharge them in an altered form. Degennes is
said to have invented various machines of great use
in navigation and gunnery, and to have constructed
clocks without weights or springs.
The automaton of Degennes probably suggested
toM. Vaucanson the idea of constructing his cele-
brated duck, which excited so much interest
throughout Europe,andwhich was perhaps the most
wonderful piece of mechanism that was ever made.
Vaucanson's duck exactly resembled the living ani-
mal in size and appearance. It executed accurately
all its movements and gestures,it ate and drank with
avidity, performed all the quick motions of the head
and throat which are peculiar to the living animal,
and like it, it muddled the water which it drank
with its bill. It produced also the sound of quack-
ing in the most natural manner. In the anatomi-
cal structure of the duck, the artist exhibited the
highest skill. Every bone in the real duck had its
representative in the automaton, and its wings were
anatomically exact. Every cavity, apophysis, and
curvature was imitated, and each bone executed its
proper movements. When com was thrown down
before it, the duck stretched out its neck to pick it
up, it swallowed it, digested it, and discharged it, in
a digested condition. The process of digestion was
o''""' ,,Coogle
AUTOMATOl'l CHESS•PLAYBR. 269
effected by chemical solution, and not by tritura-
tion, and the food digested in the stomacl1 was con-
veyed away by tubes to the place of its discharge.
The automata of Vaucanson were imitated by
one Du Moulin, a silversmith, who travelled with
them through Germany in 1752, and wl1o died at
Moscow in 1765. Beckmann informs us that he
saw several of them after the machinery had been
deranged ; but that the artificial duck, which he
regarded as the most ingenious, was still able to
eat, drink, and move. Its ribs, which were made
of wire, were covered with duck's feathers, and the
motion was communicated through the feet of the
duck by means of a cylinder and fine chains like
that of a watch.
Ingenious as all these machines are, they sink
into insignificancewhen compared with the automa-
ton chess-player, which for a long time astonished
and delighted the whole of Europe. In the year
1769, M. Kempelen, a gentleman of Presburg in
Hungary, constructed an automaton chess-player,
the general appearance of which is shown in the
annexed figures. The chess-player is a figure as
large as life, clothed in a Turkish dress, sitting be-
hind a large square chest or box, three feet and a
half long, two feet deep, and two and a half high.
The machine runs on casters, and is either seen on
the floor when the doors of the apartment are thrown
open, or is wheeled into the room previous to the
commencement of the exhibition. The Turkish
chess-player sits on a cl1air fixedto the square chest:
his right arm rests on the table, and in the left he
holds a pipe, which is removed during the game, as
it is with this hand that be makes the moves. A
o''""' ,,Coogle
270 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
chess-board;eighteen inches aquare, and bearing the
usual number of pieces, is placed before .the figure.
Fig. 66. Fig. 67.
The exhibitor then announces to the spectators his
intention of showing them the mechanism of the
automaton. For this purpose he unlocks the door
A, Fig. 66, and exposes to view a small cupboard
linedwith black or dark colouredcloth, and contain-
ing cylinders, levers, wheels, pinions, and different
pieces of machinery, which have the appearance
of occupying the whole space. He next opens the
door B, Fig. 67, at the back of the same cupboard,
and holding a lighted candle at the opening, he still
further displays the enclosed machinery to the spec-
tators, placed in front of A, Fig. 66. When the
candle is withdrawn, the door.B is then locked ; and
the exhibitor proceeds to open the drawer G G,
Fig. 66, in front of the chest. Out of this drawer
he takes a smallbox of counters, a set ofchess-men,
and a cushion for the support of the automaton's
arm, as if this was the sole object of the drawer.
The two front doors C C, of the large cupboard,
o''""' ,,Coogle
AUTOMATON CHESS·PLAYKR, 271
Fig. 66, are then opened, and at the back-door D of
the same cupboard, Fig. 67, the exhibitor applies a.
lighted candle, as before, for the purpose of showing
its interior, which is lined with darkcloth'like the
other, and contains only.a few pieces of machinery.
The chest is now wheeled round, as in Fig. 67 : the
garments of the figure are lifted up, and the door
E in the trunk, and another door F, in the thigh,
are opened, the doors B and D having been previ-
ously closed. When this exhibition ofthe interior of
· the machineis over,thechest is wheeled back into ita
original position on the floor. The doors A, C, C,
in 1ront, and the drawer G, G, are closed and locked,
and the exhibitor, after occupying himself for some
time at the back of the chest, as if he were adjust-
ing the mechanism, removes the pipe from the
hand of the figure, and winds up the machinery.
The automaton is now ready to play, and when •
an opponent has been found among the company,
the figure takes the first move. At every move
made by the automaton, the wheels of the machine
are heard in action; the figure moves its head, and
seems to look over every part of the chess-board.
When it gives check to its opponent, it shakes its
head thrice, and only twice when it checks the
queen. It likewise shakes its head when a false
move is made, replaces the adversary's piece on
the square from which it was taken, and takes the
next move itself. In general, though not always,
the automaton wins the game.
During the progress of the game, the exhibitor
often stands near the machine, and winds it up like
a clock, after it has made ten or twelve moves. At
other times he went to a comer of the room, as if
o''""' ,,Coogle
272 LKTTKRS ON NATURAL JlAGIC.
it were to consult a small square box, which stood
open for this pulJlOse.
The chess-playing machine, as thus described,
was exhibited after its completion in Presburg, Vi-
enna, and Paris,to thousands, andin 1783and 1784
it was exhibited in London and different parts of
England,without the secretofits movementshaving
been discovered. Its ing~nious inventor, who was
a gentleman and a man of education, never pre-
tended that the automaton itself really played the
game. On the contrary, hedistinctly stated, '' that
the machine was a b01Jatelle, which was not without
merit in pointofmechanism,but that the effects of
it appeared so marvellous only from the boldness
of the conception, and the fortunate choice of the
methods adopted for promoting the illusion."
Upon considering the operations of this automa·
ton, it must have been obvious that the game of
chess was performed either by a person enclosed
in the chest, or by the exhibitor himself. The
first of these hypotheses was ingeniously excluded
by the display of the interior of the machine, for
as every part contained more or less machinery,
the spectatorinvariably concluded that the smallest
dwarf could not be accommodated within, and this
idea was strengthened by the circumstance, that
no person of this description could be discovered
in the suite of the exhibitor. Hence the conclusion
was drawn, that the exhibitor actuated themachine
either by mechanical means conveyed through its
feet, or by a magnet .concealed in the body of the
exhibitor. That mechanical communication was
not formfd between the exhibitor and the figure,
was obvious from the fact, that no such communi·
AUTOliATON CRBSS•PtAYER. 273
cation was visible, and that it was not necessary
to place the machine on any particular part of the
floor. Hence the opinion became very prevalent
that the agent was a magnet ; but even this sup-
position was excluded, for the exhibitor allowed a
strong and well-armed loadstone to be placed upon
the machineduring the progress of thegame. Had
the moviug power been a magnet, thewhole action
of the machine would have been deranged by the
approximation of a loadstone concealed in the
pockets of any of the spectators.
As Baron Kempelen himself had admitted that
there was an illusion connected with the perform-
ance of the automaton, various persons resumed
the original conjecture, that it was actuated by a
person concealed in its interior, who either played
the game of chess himself, or performed the move1r
which the exhibitor indicated by signals. A Mr.
J . F. Freyhere, of Dresden, published a book on
the subject in 1789, in which he endeavoured to
explain, by coloured plates, bow the effect was pro-
duced; and he concluded, "that a well-taught boy,
very thin and tall of his age, (sufficiently so that
he could be concealed in a drawer almost imme-
diately under the chess-board,) agitated the whole."
In another pamphlet, which had been previously
published at Paris in 1785, the author not only
supposed thllt the machine was put in motion by a
dwarf, a famous chess-player ; but he goes so far
as to explain the manner in which he could be
accommodated within the machine. The invisi-
bility of the dwarf when the doors were opened
was explained by his legs and thighs being con-
cealed in two hollow cylinders, while the rest oi
s
o''""' ,,Coogle
i14 LBTTBRS ON NA'I'URAL liAGIC.
his body was out of the box, and hid by the petti-
coats of the automaton. When the doors were
shut, the clacks produced by the swivel of a
ratchet-wheel permitted the dwarf to change his
place, and return to the box unheard ; and while
the machine i11 wheeled about the room, the dwarf
had an opportunity of shutting the trap through
which he prussed into the machine. The interior of
the figure Wl\8 next shown, and the spectators were
satisfied that the box contained no living agent.
Although these views were very plausible, yet
they were never generally adopted; and when the
automaton was exhibited in Great Britain in 1819
and 1820, by M. Maelzel, it excited as intense an
interest as when it was first produced in Germany.
There can be little doubt, however, that the secret
has been discovered ; and an anonymous writer
has shown in a pamphlet, entitled " An attempt
to analyse the Automaton Chess-player of M.
Kempelen," that it is capable of accommodating
an ordinary sized man ; and he has explained in
the clearest manner how the enclosed player takes
all the different positions, and performs all the
motions which are necessary to produce the effects
actually observed. The following is the substance
of his observations :-
The drawer G G when closed does not extend to
the back of the chest, but leaves a SJ>ace 0, behind
it, (see Figs. 74, 75, and 76,) fourteen inches broad,
eight inches high, and three feet eleven inches long.
This space is never exposed to the view of specta-
tors. The small cupboard seen at A is divided into
two parts, by a door or screen I, Fig. 73, which
is moveable upon a hinge, .and is so constructed
o''""' ,,Coogle
AUTOMA'I'OM CKBSS·PLAYER. 2ii;
that it closes at the same instant that B is closed.
The whole of the front compartment as far as I is
occupied with the machinery H. The other com-
partment behind I is empty, and communicates
with the apace 0 behind the drawer, the floor of
this division being removed. The back of the great
cupboard C C is double, and the part P Q, to which
the quadrants are attached, moves on a joint Q, at
the upper part, and forms when raised an opening
S, between the two cupboards, by carrying \Vith it
part of the "partition R, which consists of cloth
tightly stretched. The false back is shown closed
in Fig. 74, while Fig. 75 shows the same back
raised, so as to form the opening S between the
chambers.
When the spectator is allowed to look into the
trunk of the figure by lifting up the dress, as in
Fig. 75, it will be observed that a great part of the
space is occupied by an inner trunk N, Figs. 75,
76, which passes off to the back in the form of an
arch, and conceals from the spectators a portion of
the interior. This inner trunk N opens and com-
municates with the chest by an aperture T, Fig.
77, about twelve inches broad and fifteen high.
When the false back is raised, the two cupboards.
the trunk N, and the space 0 behind th;! drawer,
are all connected together.
The construction of the interior being thus un-
derstood, the chess-player may be introduced into
the chest through the sliding panel U, Fig. 74. He
will then raise the false back of the large cupboard.
and assume the position represented by the shaded
figure in Figs. 68 and 69. Things being in this
state, the exhibitor is ready to begin his process of
s2
o''""' ,,Coogle
216 LETTERS ON NATURAL KAGIC.
deception. He first opens the door A of the small
cupboard, and from the crowded and very ingenious
disposition of the machinery within it, the ·eye is
Fig. 68. Fig. 69.
unable to penetrate far beyond the opening, and
the spectator concludes, without any hesitation, that
the whole of the cupboard is filled, as it appears to
be, with similar machinery. This false conclusion
is greatly corroborated by observing the glimmer-
ing light which plays among the wheel-work when
the door B is opened, and a candle held at the
opening. This mode of exhibiting the interior of
the cupboard satisfies the spectator also, that n()
opaque body, capable of holding or concealing any
of the parts of a hidden agent, is interposed be-
tween the light and the observer. The door B is
now locked and the screen I closed, aud as this is
done at the time that the light is withdrawn, it will
wholly escape observation.
The door B is so constructed as to close by its
own weight, but as the head of the chess-player
will soon be placed very near it, the secret would
be disclosed if, in turning round, the chest door
should by any accident fly open. This accident is-
o''""' ,,Coogle
AUTOMATON CHESS·PLAYER. 277
Jlrevented by turning the key, and, lest this little
circumstance should excite notice, it would proba-
bly be. regarded as accidental, as the keys were im-
mediately wanted for the other locks.
As soon as the door B is locked, and the screen
I closed, the secret is no longer exposed to hazard,
and the exhibitor proceeds to lead the minds of the
spectators still farther from the real state ofthings.
The door A is left open to confirm the opinion that
no person is concealed within, and that nothing
can take place in the interior without being ob-
served.
The drawer G G is now opened, apparently for
the purpose of looking at the chess-men, cushion
and counters, which it contains; but the real ob-
ject of it is to give time to the player to change his
Fig. 70.
position, a!! shown in the annexed figure, and to
replace the false back and partition preparatory to
the opening of the great cupboard. The chess-
player, as the figure shows, occupies with his body
the back compartment of the small cupboard, while
his legs and thighs are contained in the space O,
o''""' ,,Coogle
278 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
behind the drawer G G, his body being concealed
by the screen I, and his limbs by the drawer G G.
The great cupboard C C is now opened, and there
is so little machinery in it that the eye instantly
discovers that no person is concealed in it. To
make this more certain, however, a door is opened
at the back, and a lighted candle held to it, to allow
the spectators to explore every corner and recess.
The front doors of the great and small cupboard
being left open, the chest is wheeled round to show
the trunk of the figure, and the bunch of keys is
allowed to remain in the door D, as the apparent
carelessness of such a proceeding will help to re-
move any suspicion which may have been excited
by the locking of the door B.
When the drapery of the figure has been raised,
and the doors E and F in the trunk and thigh
opened, the chest is wheeled round again into its
original position, and the doors E and F closed.
In the meantime the player withdraws his legs
from behind the drawer, as he cannot so easily do
this when the drawer G G is pushed in.
In all these operations, the spectator flatters
himself that he has seen in succession every part
of the chest, while in reality some parts have been
wholly concealed from his view, and others but im-
perfectly shown, while at the present time nearly
half of the chest is excluded from view.
When the drawer G G is pushed in, and the
doors A and C closed, the exhibitor adjusts the
machinery at the back, in order to give time to the
player to take the position shown in a front view
in Fig. 71, and in profile in Fig. 72. In this posi-
tion he will experience no difficulty in executing
o''""' ,,Coogle
AUTO~IATO~ CHESS-PLAYER. 279
Fig. 71. Fig. 72.
every movement made by the automaton. As his
head is above the chess-board, he will see through
the waistcoat of the figure, as easily as through a
veil, the whole of the pieces on the board, and he
can easily take up and put down a chess-man with-
out any other mechanism than that of a string
communicating with the finger of the figure.. His
right 1tand being within the chest may be em-
ployed to keep in motion the wheel-work for pro-
ducing the noise which is heard during the moves,
and to perform the other movement~ of the figure_,
such as that of moving the head, tapping on the
chest, &c. ,
A very ingenious contrivance is adopted to faci-
litate the introduction of the player's left arm into
the arm of the figure. To permit this, the arm of
the figure requires to be drawn backwards; and for
the purpose of concealing, and at the same time
explaining this strained attitude, a pipe is ingeni•
ously placed in the automaton's hand. For thUs
reason the pipe.is not removed till all the other
arrangements are completed. When every thing
o''""' ,,Coogle
280 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
has been thus prepared, the pipe is taken from the
figure, and the exhibitor winds up as it were the
inclosed machinery, for the double purpose of im-
;r=;==:;;;r Fig. 73. Fig. i4.
pressing upon the company the belief that the
effect is produced by machinery, and of giving a
signal to the player to put in motion the head of
the automaton.
This ingenious explanation of the cheBB auto-
maton is, our author states, greatly confinned by
the· regular and undeviating mode of disclosing
the interior of the chest ; and he also shows that
the facts which have been observed respecting the
winding up of the machine, "afford positive proof
that the axis turned by the key is quite free and
unconnected either with a spring or weight, or any ·
system of machinery."
In order to make the preceding description more
intelligible, I shall add the following more detailed
explanation of the figures.
Fig. 66 is a perspective view of the automaton
seen in front with all the doors thrown open.
Fig. 67 is an elevation of the automaton, as seen
from behind. ·
Fig. 68 is an·elevation of the front of the chest,
'''"'"'',Coogle
AUTOMATON CRESS•PL!,YER. 281
the shaded figure representing the enclosed player
in his first position, or when the door A is opened.
Fig. 69 is a side elevation, the shaded figure re·
presenting the player in the same position.
- Fig. 70 is a front elevation, the shaded figure
shewing the player in his second position, or that
which he takes after the door B and screen I are
closed and the great cupboard opened.
Fig. 71 is a front elevation, the shaded figure
8howing the player in his third position, or that in
which he plays the game.
Fig. 72 is a side elevation showing the figure in
the same position.
Fig. 73 is an horizontal section of the chest
through the line W W in Fig. 71.
Fig. 74 is a vertical section of the chest through
the line X X in Fig. 73.
Fig. 75 is a vertical section through the line
Y Y, Fig. 71 showing the false back closed.
Fig. 76 is a simil!U' vertical section showing the
false back raised.
The following letters of reference are employed
in all the figures :
A. Front door of the small cupbo!lrd.
B. Back door of ditto.
o''""' ,,Coogle
282 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
C C. Front doors of large cupboard.
D. Back door of ditto.
~. Door of ditto.
F. Door of the thigh.
GG. The drawer.
H. Machinery in front of the small cupboard.
I. Screen behind the machinery.
K. Opening caused by the removal of part of
the floor of the small cupboard.
· L. A box which serves to conceal an opening in
the floor of the large cupboard, made to facilitate
the first position; and which also serves as a seat
for the third position.
M. A similar box to receive the toes of the
player in the first position.
N. The inner chest filling up part of the trunk.
0. The space behind the drawer.
P Q. The false back turning on a joint at Q.
R. Part ofthe partition formed of cloth stretched
tight, which is carried up by the false back to fonil _
the opening between the chambers.
S. The opening between the chambers.
T. The opening connecting the trunk and chest,
which is partly concealed by the false back.
U. Panel which is slipt aside to admit the player.
Various pieces of mechanism of wonderful in-
genuity have been constructed for the purposes of
drawing and writing. One of these, invented by
M. Le Droz, the son of the celebrated Droz of
Chaux le Fonds, has been described by Mr. Col-
linson. The figure was the size of life. It held
in its hand a metallic style, and when a spring was
touched, so as to release a detent, the figure im-
DigH""'''Google
DRAWING AND WRITING AUTOMATA, 283
mediately began to draw upon a card of Dutch vel-
lum previously laid under its hand. After the
drawing was executed on the first card, the figure
rested. Other five cards were then put in in suc-
cession, and upon these it delineated in the same
manner different subjects. On the first card it drew
" elegant portraits and likenesses of the king and
queen facing each other;" and Mr. Collinson re-
marks, that it was curious to observe with what
precision the figure lifted ,up its pencil in its tran-
sition from one point of the drawing to another,
without making the slightest mistake.
M. Maillardet has executed an automaton which
both writes and draws. The figure of a boy kneel-
ing on one knee holds a pencil in his hand. Whea
the figure begins to work, an attendant dips the
pencil in ink, and adjusts the drawing-paper upoa
a brass tablet. Upon touching a spring, the figure
proceeds to write, and when the line is finished, its
hand returns to.dot and stroketheletterswhenneces-
sary. In this nianner it executes four beautiful
pieces of writing in French and English, and three
landscapes, all of which occupy about one hour.
One of the most popular pieces of mechanism
which we have seen is the magician constructed by
M. Maillardet for the purpose of answering certain
given questions. A figure, dressed like-a magician,
appears seated at the bottom of a wall, holding a
wand in one hand, and a book in the other. A
number of questions ready prepared are inscribed
on oval medallions, and the spectator takes any of
these which he chooses, and to which he wishes an
answer, and having placed it in a drawer ready to
receive it, the drawer shuts with a spring till the
o''""' ,,Coogle
~84 LETTERS 0!'{ NATURAL MAGIC,
answer is returned. The magician then rises from
his seat, bows his head, describes circles with his
wand,and,consulting the book as ifiu deep thought,
he lifts it towards his face. Having thus appeared
to ponder over the proposed question, he raises
his wand, and striking with it the wall above his
head, two folding-doors fly open, and display an
appropriate answer to the question. The doors
again close, the magician resumes his original po-
sition, and the drawer opens to return the medal-
lion. There are twenty of these medallions, all
containing different questions, to which the magi-
cian returns the most suitable and striking answers.
The medallions are thin plates of brass of an el-
liptical form, exactly resembling each other. Some
of the medallions have a question inscribed .on
each side, both of which the magician answers in
succession. If'the drawer is shut without a medal-
lion being put into it, or if a blank medallion, viz.,
.one which contains no question, is put into the
drawer, the magician ri8t's, consults his book•
shakes his head, and resumes his seat. The fold-
ing-doors remain shut, and the drawer is returned
empty. If two medallions are put into the drawer
together, an answer is returned only to the lower
one. When the machinery is wound up, the move•
mente continue about an hour, during which time
about fifty questions may be answered. The me-
thod by which the different medallions acted upon
the machinery, so as to produce the proper answers
to the questions which they bore, was of course
kept a secret by the inventor, but it was discovered
by Mr. Brockedon, who has kindly communicated
to me an account ofit.
o''""' ,,Coogle
IU.ILLARDET's CO:IiJUROR. 285-
Upon' examining the edge of the circular medal-
lions, Mr. Brockedon discovered 'in all of them,
except the blanks, a small hole almost concealed
by the milling. This led Mr.-Brockedon to examine
the receptacle for the medallion in the drawer,
and he observed the edge of a pin flush with the
edge ofthe receptacle, whence the pin was protmded
by the machine into the holes in the medallion,
the depth of the hole regulating the an"wer. In
order to prove this, Mr. B. cut a slip from a cedar
pencil small enough to enter easily the holes in the
medallion, if he found them to be of different
depths. As the blank medallions had no hole, and
produced only a shake of the magician's 'head, Mr.
B. took a medallion with a question, aud having-
plugged the hole with a bit of cedar, he cut it
flush, and having placed it in the receptacle, the
conjuror shook his head, and thus bore testimony
to the truth of Mr. Brockedon's discovery.
M. Maillardet has constmcted various other
automata, representing insects and other animal!!.
One of these was a spider entirely made of steel,.
which exhibited all the movements of the animal.
It ran on the surface of a table during three mi-
nutes, and to prevent it from running off, its course
always tended towards the centre of the table. He
constructed likewise a caterpillar, a lizard\.a mouse,
and a serpent. The serpent crawls about in every
direction, opens its mouth, hisses, and darts out it~r
tongue.
Ingenious and beautiful as all these piecea of
mechanism are, and surprising as their effects ap-
pear even to scientific spectators, the principal ob-
ject of their inventors was t~ astonish and amuse
o''""' ,,Coogle
,-'
286 LETTERS ON NATUJU.L MAGIC.
the public. We should form an erroneous judg-
ment, however, if we supposed that this was the·
only result of the iugenuity which they displayed.
The passion for automatic exhibitions, which cha-
racterized the 18th century, gave rise to the most
ingenious mechanical devices, and introduced
among the higher orders of artists habits of nice
and accurate execution in the formation of the most
delicate pieces of machinery. The same combi-
nation of the mechanical powers which made the
spider crawl, or which waved the tiny rod of the
magician, contributed in future years to purposes
of higher import. Those wheels and pinions, which
almost eluded our senses by their minuteness, re-
appeared in the stupendous mechanism of our
spinning-machines and our steam-engines. The
elements of the tumbling-puppet were revived in
the chronometer, which now conducts our navy
through the ocean; and the shapeless wheel which.
directed the hand of the drawing automaton has
served, in the present age, to guide the move-
ments of the tambouring engine. Those mecha-
nical wonders, which in one century enriched only
the conjuror who used them, contributed in another
to augment the wealth of the nation; and those
automatic toys, which once amused the vulgar, are
now employed in extending the power and pro-
moting tire civilization of our species. In what-
ever way, indeed, the power of genius may invent
or combine, and to whatever low or even ludicrous
purposes that invention or combination may be
originally applied, society receives a gift which it
can never lose; and though the value of the- seed
may not be at once recognized, and though it may
'''"'"'',Coogle
MR. DUNCAN' S TAMBOURING MACHiNE. 2'87'
lie long unproductive in the ungenial till of human
knowledge, it will some time or other evolve ita
ge1m, and yield to mankind its natural and abun-
dant harvest.
Did the limits of so popular a volume JlS this-
ought to be permit_it, I should have proceeded to
give a general description of some of these extra-
ordinary pieces of machinery, the construction and
effects of which never fail to strike the spectator
with surprise. This, however, would lead me into-
a field too extensive, and I shall therefore confine
myself to a notice of three very remarkable pieces
ofmechanism which are at presentvery little known
to the general reader, viz., the tambouring mac~ne
of Mr. Duncan, the statue-turning machine of Mr.
Watt, and the calculating machinery of Mr. Bab-
bage.
The tambouring of muslins, or the art of pro-
ducing upon them ornamental flowers and figures,
bas been long known and practised in Britain as
well as in other countries; but it was not long
before the year 1790, that it became au object of
general manufacture in the west of Scotland, where
it was chiefly carried on. At first it was under
the direction of foreigners ; but their aid was not
long necessary, and it speedily extended to such
a degree as to occupy, either wholly or partially,
more than 20,000 females. Many of these la"-
bourers lived in the neighbourhood of Glasgow,
which was the chief seat of the manufacture; but
others were scattered through every part of Scot-·
land, and supplied by agents with work and money.
In Glasgow, a tambourer of ordinary skill could
not in general earn more than five or six shillings
a week by constant application; but to a labouring
o''""' ,,Coogle
288 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
artisan, who had several daughters, e\·en these low
wages formed a source of great wealth. At the
age of five years, a child capable of handling a
needle was devoted to tambouring, even though it
could not eant more than a shilling or ~o in a
week ; and the consequence of this was, that fe~
male children were taken from school, and ren-
dered totally unfit for any social or domestic duty.
The tambouring population was, therefore, of the
worst kind, and it must have been regarded as a
blessing rather than as a calamity, when the work
which they performed was intrusted to regular
machinery.
}fr. John Duncan of Glasgow, the inventor of
the tambouring machinery, was one of those un-
fortunate individuals who benefit their species
without benefiting themselves, and who died in the
meridian of life, the victim of poverty and of na-
tional ingratitude. He conceived the idea of bring-
ing into action a great number of needles at the
same time, in order to shorten the process by
manual labour, but he at first was perplexed about
the diversification of the pattern. This difficulty~
however, he soon surmounted by employing two
forces at right angles to each other, which gave
him a new force in the direction of the diagonal of
the parallelogram, whose sides were formed by the
original forces. His first machine was very im-
perfect; bnt after two years' study he formed a
company, at whose expense six improved ma-
chines were put in action, and who secured the
invention by a patent. At this time the idea of
rendering the machine automatic had scarcely
occurred to him ; but he afterwards succeeded in
accomplishing this great object, and the tam...
o''""' ,,Coogle
MR. DU:'>CAN·s TAMBOURl:'<'G MACHI!'iE. 289
bouring machines were placed under the surveil-
lance of a steam-engine. Another patent was taken
for these improvements. The reader who desires
to have a minute account of these improvements,
and ofthe various parts of the machinery, will be
amply gratified by perusing the inventor's own
account of the machinery in the article CHAIN·
wonK in the Edinburgh Encyclopredia. At pre-
sent it will be sufficient to state, that the muslin to
be tamboured was suspended vertically in a frame,
which was capable of being moved both in a ver-
tical and a horizontal direction. Sixty or more
needles lying horizontal occupied a frame in front
of the muslin web. Each ofthese working-needles,
as they are called, was attended by a feeding-
needle, which, by a circular motion round the work-
ing-needle, lodged upon the stem of the latter the
loop of the thread. The sixty needles then pene-
trated the web, and, in order that they might return
again without injuring the fabric, the barb or eye
ofthe needle, which re11ernbled the barb ofa fishing-
hook, was shut by a slider. The muslin web then
took a new position by means of the machinery that
gave it its horizontal and vertical motion, so that
the sixty needles penetrated it, at .their next move-
ment, at another point of the figure or flower.
This operation went on till sixty flowers were com-
pleted. The web was then slightly wound up, that
the needles might be opposite that part of it on
which they were to work another row of flowers.
The flowers were generally at an inch distance,
and the rows were placed so that the flowers formed
what are called diamonds. There were seventy-
two rows of flowers in a yard, so that in every
T
o''""' ,,Coogle
i9~l Ll~TTRRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
!quare yard there were nearly 4000 flowers, and'
in every piece of ten yards long 40,000. The num-
ber of loops or stitches in a flower varied with the
pattern, but on an average there were about thirty.
Hence the number of stitches in a yard were'
120,000, and the number in a piece is 1,200,000.
The average work done in a week by one machine
was fifteen yards, or 60,000 flowers, or 1,800,000
stitches; and by comparing this with the work
done by one person with the hand, it appeared·
that the machine enabled one person to do the
work of twenty-four persons.
One of the most curious and important applica-
tions of machinery to the arts which has been sug-
gested in modern times, was made by the late Mr.
Watt, in the construction of a machine for copying
or reducing statues and sculpture of all kinds.
The art of multiplying busts and statues, by casts
in plaster of Paris, has been the means ofdiffusing
a knowledge of this branch of the fine arts; but
from the fragile nature of the material, the copies
thus produced were unfit for exposure to the wea-
ther, and therefore ill calculated for ornamenting
public buildings, or for perpetuating the memory of
public achievements. A machine, therefore, which
is capable of multiplying the labours of the sculp-
tor·in the durable materials of marble or of brass,
was a desideratum of the highest value, and one
which could have been expected only from a
genius of the first order. During many years Mr.
Watt carried on his labours in secret, and he con-
cealed even his intention of constructing such a
machine. After he had made considerable progress
in its execution, and had thought of securing his
o''""' ,,Coogle
MR. B.ABBAGE's CALCULATING MACHINE. 291·
invention by a patent, he learned that an ingenious
individual in his own neighbourhood had been long
occupied in the same pursuit; and Mr. Watt in-
formed me, that he had every reason to believe that
this gentleman was entirelyignorant of his labours.
A proposal was then made that the two inventors
should combine their talents, and secure the privi-
lege by a joint patent; but Mr. Watt had expe-
rienced so frequently the fataloperation of our pa-
tent laws, that he saw many difficulties in the way
of such an arrangement, and he was unwilling, at
his advanced age, to embark in a project so exten•
sive, and which seemed to require for its success-
ful prosecution all the ardour and ambition of a.
youthful mind. The scheme was therefore aban-
doned; and such is the unfortunate operation of
our patent laws, that the circumstance oftwo indi-
viduals having made the same invention has pre-
vented both from bringing it to perfection, and
conferring a great practical benefit upon their spe-
cies. The machine which Mr.Watt had constructed
had actually executed some excellent pieces ofwork.
I have seen in his house at Heathfield copies of
basso-relievos, and complete statues of a small
size; and some of his friends have in their posses-
sion other specimens of its performance.
Of all the machines which have been con-
structed in modern times, the calculating-machine
ie doubtless the most extmordinary. Pieces of me-
chanism for performingparticular arithmeticalope-
rations have been long ago constructed, but these
bear no comparison either in ingenuity or in mag-
nitude to the grand design..conceived and nearly
executed by Mr. Babbage. Great as the power of.
T2
2·92 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
mechanism is known to be, yet.we venture to say,
that many of the most intelligent of our readers
will scarcely admit it to be possible that astronomi-
cal and navigation tables can be accurately com-
puted by machinery; that tl1e machine can itself
correct the errors which it may commit ; and that
the results of its calculations, when absolutely free
from error, can be printed off, without th.e aid ofhu-
man hands, or the operation of human intelligence.
All this, however, Mr. Babbage's machine can do;
and as I have. had the advantage of seeing it ac-
tually calculate, and of studying its construction
with Mr. Babbage himself, I am able to make the
·above statement on personal observation. The cal~
culating machine now constructing under the
superintendence of the inventor has been executed
at the expense of the British Government, and is
of course their property. It consists essentially of
. two parts; a calculating part, and a printing part,
both of which are necessary to the fulfilment of
Mr. Babbage's views; for the whole advantage
would be lost if the computations made by the
machine were copied by human hands and trans-
ferred to types by the common process. The
greater part of the calculating-machinery is already
constructed, and exhibits workmanl!hip of .such
extraordinary skill and beauty, that nothing ap- .
proaching to it has been witnel!sed. In order to
execute it, particularly those parts of the appa~
ratus which are dil!similar to any used in ordinary
mechanical constructions, tools and machinery of
great expense and complexity have been invented
and constructed ; and in many instances contriv-
-ances of singular ingenuity ha\'e been resorted to
o''""' ,,Coogle
MR. BABBAGE'S CALCULATIYG MACHINE. 291
which cannot fail to prove extensively useful in
various branches of the mechanical arts.
The drawings of this machinery, which form a
large part of the work, and on which all the contriv-
ancehas been bestowed, and all thealterations made,
cover upwards of 400 square feet of surface, and
are executed with extraordinary care and precision.
In so complex a piece of mechanism, in which
interrupted motions are propagated simultaneously
along a great variety of trains of mechanism, it
might have been supposed that obstructions would
arise, or even incompatibilities occur, from the
impracticability of foreseeing all the possible com-
binations of the parts; but this doubt has been
entirely removed, by the constant employment of
a system of mechanical notation invented by ~r.
Babbage, which places distinctly in view, at every
instant, the progress of motion through all the
parts of this or any other machine, and by writing
down in tables the times required for all the move-
ments, this method renders it easy to avoid ·all
risk of two opposite actions arriving at the same
instant at any ·part of the engine.
In the printing part of the machine less progress
has been made in the actual execution than in the
calculating part. The cause of this is the greater
difficulty of its contrivance, not for transferring
the computations from the calculating part to the
copper or other plate destined to receive it, but for
giving to the plate.itself that number and variety
of movements which the forms adopted in printed
tables may call for in practice.
The practical object of the calculating engine is
to compute and print a great variety and extent
o''""' ,,Coogle
294 LETTERS ON NATURAL J4AGIC.
of astronomical and navigation tables, which could
not be done without enormous intellectual and
manual labour, and which, even if executed by
euch labour, could not be calculated with the re-
quisite accuracy. Mathematicians, astronomen,
and navigators do not require to be informed of
the real value of such tables; but it may be proper
to state, for the information of others, that seven-
~een large folio volumes of logarithmic tables alone
were calculated at an enormous expense by the
French Government; and that the British Govern-
ment regarded these tables to be of such national
\lalue, that they proposed to the French Board of
Longitude to print an abridgment of them at the
joint expense of the two nations, and offered to
advance 50001. for that purpose. Besides loga-
rithmic tables, Mr. Babbage's machine will cal-
culate tables of the powers and products of num-
bers, and all astronomical tables for determining
the positions of the sun, moon, and planets ; and
the same mechanical principles have enabled him
to integrate innumerable equations of finite differ-
ences, that is, when the equation of differences ia
given, he can, by setting an engine, produce at
the end of a given time any distant term which
may be required, or any succession of terms com-
mencing at a distant point.
Besides the cheapness and celerity with which
this machine will perform its work, the absolute
accuracy of the printed results deserves especial
notice. By peculiar contrivances, any small error
produced by accidental dust, or by any slight in-
accuracy in one of the wheel~;~, is corrected as
soon as it is transmitted to the next, and t.bia is
o''""' ,,Coogle
MR. BABBAGE·s CALCULATING MACHINE. 29$
done in such a manner as effectually_to prevent
any accumulation of small errors from producing
an erroneous figure in the result.
In order to convey some idea of this stupendous
undertaking, we may mention the effects produced
by a small trial engine constructed by the inventor,
.and by which he computed the following table from
the formula .x2 +x+41. The figures, as they were
calculated by the machine, were not exhibited to
the eye as in sliding rules and simila.- instroment$,
.but were actually presented to the eye on twQ
.opposite sites of the machine, the number 383.
for example, appearing in figures before the person
employed in copying.
Table colculated by a s-mall Trial Engine.
41 131 383 797 1373
43 151 421 853 1447
47 173 461 911 1523
53 197 583 971 1601
61 223 547 1033 1681
71 '251 593 1097 1763
83 281 641 1163 1847
97 313 691 1231 1933
113 347 743 1301 2021
While the machine was occupied in calculating
this table, a friend of the inventor undertook to
write down the numbers as they appeared. In
<:onsequence of the copyist writing quickly, hera-
ther more than kept pace with the engine, but as
soon as five figures appeared, the machine was at
least equal in speed to the writer. At another
- trial thirty-two numbers of the same table were
·calculated in the space of two minutes and thirty
'''"'"'',Coogle
296 LETTERS 0~ NATURAL MAGIC.
seconds; and as these contained eighty-two figure~t,
the engine produced thirty-three figures every
minute, or more than one figure in every two
seconds. On another occasion it produced forty-
jour figures per minute. This rate of computation
could be maintained for any length of time ; and
it is probable that few writers are able to copy with
equal speed for many hours together.
Some of·that class of individuals who envy all
great men, and deny all great invention!!, have
ignorantly stated that Mr. Babbage's invention is
not.new. The same persons, had it suited their pur-
pose, would have maintained that the invention of
spectacles was an anticipation-of the telescope; but
even this is more true than the allegation, that the
arithmetical machines of Pascal and others were
the types of Mr. Babbage's engine. The object of
these machines was entirely different. Their high-
est functions were to perform the operations of
common arithmetic. Mr. Babhage's engine, it is
true, can perform these operations also, and can
extract the roots of numbers, and approximate to
the roots of equations, and even to their impos-
sible roots. But this is not its object. Its func-
tion, in contradistinction to that of all other con-
trivances for calculating, is to embody in machi-
nery the method of differences, which has never
before been done ; and the effects which it is
capable of producing, and the works which in the
course of a few years we expect to see it execute,
will place it at an infinite distance from all other
efforts of mechanical genius"'.
• A popular account of this engine will be ftmntl in Mr.
Babbngc's in!eresting \'oiU:llc On the Ec .nom!/ nf ,i!nnufac-
tures, just publi.hed.
o''""' ,,Coogle
WO:!fDERS OF CHEMISTRY, 291
LETTER XII.
Wu11d~1'1 of ch~millr!J-Origin, progr~u, tmd ohject1 <>f
alchem!J-Art of breathingfir~-Employed b!J Barckoche-
baa, Ewuu, B;c.-Modern method-Art of walking upo»
burning co.al1 and red hot iron, and'of plunging the hands
in meltedleadandboiling UJafer-Singula1·propert!/ ofboil-
i.~g tar-Workmen plunge their hand& in melted copper-
Trial of <>rdeal by jire-Aidim'1 incombullible dreues-
E.rample• of their wonderful power in re1illing jfame-
Powel' of breathing and enduring air ofhigh temperatures
-Experiment• made by Sir Joaeph Bani.,, Sir Chm·les
Blagden, and lrlr. Chantrey.
(:HEMISTRY has from its infancy been pre-emi-
nently the science of wonders. In her laboratory
the alchemist and the magician have revelled un-
controlled, and from her treasures was forged the
sceptre which was so long and so fatally wielded
over human reason. The changes which take
place in the bodies immediately around us are too
few in number and too remote from observation to
excite much of our notice; but when the sub-
stances procured directly from nature, or formed
casually by art, become objects of investigation,
they exhibit in their simple or combined actions
the most extraordinary effects. The phenomena
which they display, and the products which they
form, so little. resemble those with which we are
o''""' ,,Coogle
298 LBTTBRS ON NA.TURAL HAQIC.
familiar, that the most phlegmatic and the least
speculative obser\rer must have anticipated from
them the creation of new and valuable compounds.
It can scarcely, therefore, be a matter of surprise
that minds of the highest order, and spirits of the
loftiest ambition, should have sought in the trans-
mutations of chemistry for those splendid products
which were conceived to be most conducive to
numan happiness.
1'he disciple of Mammon grew pale over his
erucible in his ·ardour to convert the baser metals
into gold; the philosopher pined in secret for
the universal solvent which might develop the
elements of the precious stones, and yield to him
the means of their production; and the philan-
thropist aspired after an universal medicine, which
might arrest disease in its course, and prolong in-
definitely the life of man. To us who live under
the meridian of knowledge, such expectations must
appear as presumptuous as they were delusive:
hut when we consider that gold and silver w*e
actually produced by chemical processes from the
rude ores of lead and copper ;-that some of the
most refractory bodies had yielded to the disinte-
grating and solvent powers of chemical agents;-
aud that the mercurial preparations of the Arabian
physicians .had operated like charms in the cure of
diseases that had resisted the feeble medicines. of
the times, we may find some apology for the extra-
vagant expectations of the alchemists.
An object of lofty pursuit, even if it be one of
impossible attainment, is not unworthy philoso-
phical ambition. Though we cannot scale the
summit of the volcanic cone, we may yet reach ita
o''""' ,,Coogle
ORl(;llN OF ALCHBHY• 299
.heaving flanks; and tl10ugh we cannot decompose
its loftiest fires, we may yet study the lava which
they have melted and the products which they have
11ubl.imed. ln like manner, though the philoso-
pher's stone has not been found, chemistry has de-
rived rich accessions from its search ;-though the
.general solvent has not been obtained, yet the dia-
mond and the gems have sUITendered to science
their adamantine strength ;-and though the elixir
of life has never been distilled, yet other medicines
have soothed" the ills which flesh is heir to," and
prolonged in no slight degree the average term of
our existence.
Thus far the pursuits of the alchemist were ho-
nourable and useful; but when his calling was fol-
lowed, as it soon was, by men prodigal of fortune
and of character, science became an instrument of
~rime; secrets unattained were bartered for the
gold of the credulous and the ignorant, and books
innumerable were composed to teach these pre-
tended secrets to the world. An intellectual re-
action, however, soon took place ; and those very
princes who had sought to fill their exhausted trea-
euries at the furuace of the chemist, were the first
to enact laws against the frauds which they had
encouraged, and to dispel the illusions which .had
ao long deceived their subjects.
But even when the moral atmosphere of Europe
was thus disinfected, chemistry supplied the magi-
~ian with his most lucrative wonders, and those
who could no longer delude the public with dreams
<Jf wealth and longevity, now sought to amuse and
astonish them by the exhibition of their skill.
The narrow limits of this volume will uot permit
o''""' ,,Coogle
·....
300 LETTERS ON NATUllAL MAGIC.
me to give even a general view of those extraordi-
nary effects which this popular science can dis-
play. I must therefore select from its inexhaustible
stores those topics which are most striking in their
results, and most popular in their details.
One of the most ancient feats of magic was the
art of breathing flame,-an art which even now ex-
cites the astonishment of the vulgar. During the
insurrection of the slaves in Sicily in the second
century before Christ, a Syrian named Eunus ac-
quired by his knowledge the rank of their leader.
In order to establish his influence over their minds,
he pretended to possess miraculous power. When
he wished to inspire his followers with courage, he
breathed flames or sparks among them ·from his
• mouth, at the same time that be was rousing them
by his eloquence. St. Jerome informs us, that the·
Rabbi Barchochebas, who headed the Jews in their
last revolt against Hadrian, made them believe that
he was the Messiah, by vomiting flames from his
mouth; and at a later period, the Emperor Con-
stantius was thrown into a state of alarm when Va-
lentinian informed him, that he had seen one of the
body-guards breathing out fire and flames. Weare
not acquainted with the exact methods by. which
these effects were produced ; but Florus informs us,
that Eunus filled a perforated nut-shell with sul-
phm and fire, and having concealed it in his mouth,
he breathed gently through it while he was speak-
ing. This art is performed more simply by the
modern juggler. Having rolled together some flax
or hemp, so as to form a ball the size of a walnut,
he sets it on fire, and allows it to burn till it is
nearly consumed : he then rolls round it while
o''""' ,,Coogle
WALKIXG O!'l BURNING COALS, ETC. 301
burning some additional flax, and by these means
the fire may be retained in it for a considerable
time. At the commencement of his exhibition he
introduces the ball into his mouth, and while he
breathes through it the fire is revived, and a num-
ber of burning sparks are vrojected from his mouth.
These sparks are too feeble to do any harm, pro-
vided he inhales the air tlnough his nostrils.
The kindred art of walking on burning coals or
red hot iron remounts to the same antiquity. The
priestesses of Diana at Castabala in Cappadocia
were accustomed, according to Strabo, to walk ·
over burning coals; and at the annual festival,
which was held in the temple of Apollo on Mount
Soracte in Etruria, the Hirpi marched over burn-
ing coals, and on this account they were exempted
from military service, and received other privileges
from the Roman Senate. This power of resisting
fire was ascribed even by Varro to the use of some
liniment with which they anointed the soles of
their feet.
Of the same character was the art of holding red
hot iron in the hands or between the teeth, and of
plunging the hands into boiling water or melted
lead. About the close of the seventeenth century,
an Englishman of the name of'Richardson rendered
himself famous by chewing buming coals, pouring
melted lead upon his tougue, and swallowing
melted glass. That these effects are produced partly
by deception, and partly by a previous preparation
of the parts subjected to the heat, can scarcely ad-
mit of.a doubt. The fusible metal, composed of
mercury, tin, and bismuth, which melts at a low
temperature, might easily haye been substituted in
o''""' ,,Coogle
302 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC,
place oflead ; and fluids of easy ebullition may have
been used in place of boiling water. A solution of
spermaceti or sulphuric ether, tinged with alkanet
root, which becomes solid at 50° of Fahrenheit,.
and melts and boils with the heat of the hand, is.
supposed to be the substance which is used at:
Naplcs when the dried blood of St. Januarius melts
spontaneously, and boils over the vessel which
contains it.
But even when the fluid requires a high tempe-
rature to boil, it may hav~ other properties, which.
enable us to plunge our hands_ into it with impu-
nity. This is the case with boiling tar, which boils
at a temperature of 220° even higher than that of
water. Mr. Davenport informs us, that he saw.
one of the workmen in the King's Dook-yard at.
Chatham immerse his naked hand in tar of that
temperature. He drew up his coat sleeves, dipped
in 'his hand and wrist, bringing out fluid tar; and
pouring it off from his hand as from a ladle. The
tar remained in complete contact with his skin, and.
he wiped it off with tow. Convinced that there was
no deception in this experiment, Mr. Davenport
immersed the entire length of his fore-finger in the
boiling cauldron, and moved it about a short time
before the heat became inconvenient. Mr. Daven-
port ascribes this singular effect to the slowness-
with which the tar communicates its heat, which
he conceives to arise from the abundant volatile
vapour which is evolved "carrying off rapidly the
caloric in a latent state, and intervening between
the tar and the skin, so as to prevent the. more·
rapid communication of heat." He conceives also~
that when the hand is withdrawn, and tbe hottar
o''""' ,,Coogle
HANDS PLUNGED IN MELTED C.:>PPER. 303
adhering to it, the rapidity with which this vapour
is evolved from the surface exposed to the air cools
it immediately. The workmen informed Mr. Da-
venport, that, if a person put his hand into the
cauldron with his glove on, he would be dreadfully
burnt, but this extraordinary result was not put to
the test of observation;
' But though the conjurors with fire may have
availed themselves of these singular properties of
individual bodies, yet the general secret of their art
consisted in rendering the skin of the exposed parts
callous and insensible to heat,-an effect which may
be produced by continually compressing or singeing
them till the skin acquires a horny consistence. A
proof of this opinion is mentioned by Beckmann,.
who assures us that in September 1765, when he
visited the copper works at Awestad, one of the
workmen, bribed by a little money to drink, took
some of the melted copper in his hand, and after
showing it to the company, threw it against a wall.
He then squeezed the fingers of his horny band
close to each other, held it a few minutes under his
ann-pit to make it perspire, as he said, and taking
it again out, drew it over a ladle filled with melted
copper, some of which he skimmed off, and moved
his hand backwards and forwards very quickly by
way of ostentation. During this performance, M,
Beckmann noticed a smell like that of singed horn
or leather, though the hand of the workman was not
burned. This callosity of the skin may be effected
by frequently moistening it with dilute sulphuric
acid. Some allege that the juices of certain plants
produce the same effect, while others recommend
the frequent rubbing of the skin with oil. The
o''""' ,,Coogle
304 LETTERS 0~ NATURAL MAGIC.
receipt given by AlbElrtus Magnus for this purpose
was of a different nature. It consisted of a non-
conducting calcareous paste, which was made to
adhere to the skin by the sap of the marsh-mallow,
the slimy seeds of the ilea-bane, and the white of
an egg.
As the ancients were acquainted with the incom-
bustibility of asbestos or amianthus, and the art. of
weaving it into cloth, it is highly probable that it
was employed in the performance of some of their
miracles, and it is equally probable that it was sub-
sequently used, along with some of the processes
already described, in enabling the victims of super-
1Stition to undergo without hazard the trial of ordeal
by fire. In every country where this barbarous
usage prevailed, whether in the sanctuary of the
Christian idolater, or in the pagan temple of the
Bramin, or under the wild orgies of the African
savage, Providence seems to have provided the
means of meeting it with impunity. In Catholic
countries this exculpatory judgment was_granted
chiefly to persons in weak health, who were inca-
pable of using arms, and particularly to monks and
ecclesiastics who could not avail themselves of the
trial by single combat. The fire ordeal was con-
ducted in the church under the inspection of the
clergy: Mass was at the same time celebrated, and
the iron and the victims were consecrated by the
sprinkling of holy water. The preparatory steps
·were also under the direction of the priests. It
was necessary that the accused should be placed
three days and three nights under their care, both
before and after the trial. Under the pretence of
1)reventing the defendant from preparing his hands
o''"'"·· ,,Coogle
ALDINI's INCOMBUSTIBLE DRESSES, 305
by art, and in order to ascertain the result of the
()roeal, his hands were covered up and sealed dur-
ing the three days which preceded and followed the·
fiery application; and it has been plausibly con-
jectured by Beckmann, that during the three first
days the preventive was applied to those whom
they wished to acquit, and that the three last days
were requisite to bring back the hands to their
natural condition. In these and other cases, the
accused could not have availed himself directly of
the use of asbestos gloves, unless we could suppose
them so made as to imitate tl1e human skin at a
distance; but the fibres of that mineral may have.
been imbedded in a paste which applied itself rea-
dily to all the elevations and depressions ofthe skin.
In our own times the art of defending the hands
and face, and indeed the whole body, from the
action of heated iron and intense fire, has been
applied to the nobler purpose of saving human
life, and rescuing property from the flames. The
revival and the improvement of this art we owe to
the benevolence and the ingenuity ofthe Chevalier
Aldini of Milan, who has travelled through all
Europe to present tl1is valuable gift to his species•.
Sir H. Davy had long ago shown that a safety
lamp for illuminating mines, containing inflam-
mable air, 'might be constructed of wire-gauze
alone, which 1nevented the flame within, however
large or intense, from setting fire to the inflam-
mable air without. This valuable property, which
has been long in practical use, he ascribed to the
conducting and radiating power of the wire-gauze,
which carried oft" the heat of the flame, and de-
prived it of its power. The Chevalier Aldini con•
l1
o''""' ,,Coogle
306 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
ceived the idea of-flJ!Plying the same material, ill
combination with other badly conducting sub·
stances, as a protection against fire. The incom·
bustible pieces of dress which he uses for the body~
arms, and legs, are formed out of strong cloth,
which has been steepedin asolution of alum, while
those for the head, hands, and feet, are made of
cloth of asbestos or amianthus. The head dress is
a large cap which envelops the whole head down
to the neck, having suitable perforations for the
eyes, nose, and mouth. The stockings and cap
are single, but the gloves are made of double
amianthus cloth, to enable the fireman to take into
his hand burning or -red hot bodies. The piece of
ancient asbestos cloth preservedin the Vatican was
formed, we believe, by mixing the asbestos with
other fibrous substances; but M. Aldi.ni .has e:x·
ecuted a piece of nearly the same size, nine feet
five inches long, and five feet three inches wide,
which is much stronger than the ancient piece,
and possesses superior qualities, in consequence of
having been woven without the introduction of any
foreign substance. In this manufacture the fibres
are prevented from breaking by the action of
steam, the cloth is t»ade loose in its fabric, and the
threads are about the fiftieth ofan inch in diameter.
The metaliic dress which is superadded to these
means of defence consists of five principal piecea,
viz. a casque or cap, with a mask large enough to
leave a proper space between it and the asbestos
cap; a cuirass with its brassets; a piece of armour
for the trunk and thighs; a pair of boots of double
'Wire-gauze; and an oval shield 5 feet long by
2; wide, made by stretching the wire-gauze over .a
o''""' ,,Coogle
ALDINI' s INCOMBUSTIBLE DRESSES, 307
slender frame of iron. All these pieces are made
of iron wire-gauze, having the interval between its
threads the twenty-fifth part of an inch.
In order to prove the efficacy of this apparatus,
and inspire the firemen with confidence in its pro-
tection, he sho~ed them that a finger first enve-
loped in asbestos, and then in a double case of
wire-gauze, might be held a long time in the flame
of a spirit-lamp or candle before the heat became
inconvenient. A fireman having his hand within a
double asbestos glove, and its palm protected by a
piece of asbestos cloth, seized with impunity alarge
piece of red hot Jron, carried it deliberately to the
distance of 150 feet, inflamed straw with it, and
brought it back again to the furnace. On other
occasions the fireman handled blazing wood and
burning substances, and walked during five minutes
upoa an iron grating placed over flaming fagots.
In order to show how the head, eyes, and lungs
are protected, the fireman put on the asbestos and
wire~.gauze oap, and .
the cuinss, and held the shield
before his breast. A fire of shavings was· then
lighted, and lrept hurning in a large raised chafing-
disn; the fireman plunged his head into the
middle of the flames with hil\ face to the fuel, and
in that position went several times round the
chafing-dish for a period longer than a minute. In
-a subsequent trial, at Paris, a fireman placed his
head in the middle of a large brazier filled with
flaming hay and wood, as in Fig. 77, and resisted
the action of the fire during five or six minutes,
and even ten minutes.
In the experiments which were made at Paris
in the presence of a committee of the Academy of
u2
o''""' ,,Coogle
308 LETTERS ON Nt.TURAL MAGIC.
Sciences, two parallel rows ofstraw and brushwood,
supported l)y iron wires, were fonned at the dis-
tance of three feet from each other, and extended
thirty feet in length. When this combustible mass
was set on fire, it was necest:mry to stand at the
distance of eight or ten yards to avoid the heat.
Fig. 77.
The flames from both the rows seemed to fill up
the whole space between them, and rose to the
height of nine or ten feet. At this moment six:
firemen, clothed in tl1c incombustible dresses, and
marching at a slow pace behind each other, re-
peatedly passed through the whole length beh,·een
the two rows of flame, which were constantly fed
witl1 additional combustibles. O!le of the firemen
o''""' ,,Coogle
EX.,MPLES OF RESISTING FLAME. 309
carried on his back a child eight years old, in a
wicker-basket covered with metallic gauze, and
the cl1ild had no other dress than a cap made of
amianthine cloth.
In February, 1829, a still more striking expe-
riment was made in the yard of the barracks of
St. Gervais. Two towers were erected two stories
high, and were surrounded with heaps of inflamed
materials, consisting of fagots and straw. The
firemen braved the danger with impunity. In op-
position to the advice of M. AMini, one of them,
with the basket and child, rushed into a narrow
place, where the flames were raging eight yards
high. The violence of the fire was so great that
he could not be seen, while a thick black smoke
spread around, throwing out a heat which was
unsupportable by the spectators. The fireman re-
mained so long invisible that serious doubts were
entertained of his safety. He at length, however,
issued from the fiery gulf uninjured, and proud of
having succeeded in braving so great a danger.
It is a remarkable result of these experiments,
that the firemen are able to breathe without diffi-
culty in the middle of tlie flames. This effect is
owing not only to the heat being interce1>ted by
the wire-gauze as it passes to the lungs, in conse-
quence ofwhich its temperature becomes support-
able, but also to the singular power which the
body possesses of resisting great heats, and of
breathing air of high temperatures.
A series of curious experiments were made on
this subject by l\f. Tillet, in France, and by Dr.
Fordyce and Sir Charles Blagden, .in England.
Sir Joseph Banks, Dr. Solander, and Sir Charlea
o''""' ,,Coogle
310 LETTERS ON NATURAL llAGlC,
Blagden entered a room in which the air had a
temperature of 198° Fahr., and remained ten
minutes; but as the thermometer sunk very ra-
pidly, they resolved to enter the room singly.
Dr. Solander went in alone, and found the heat
210°, and Sir Joseph entered when the heat was
211°. Though exposed to such an elevated tem-
perature, their bodies preserved their natural degree
of heat. Whenever they breathed upon a ther-
mometer it sunk.several degrees : every expiration,
partieularly if strongly made, gave a pleasant im-
pression of coolness to their nostrils, and their cold
breath cooled their fingers whenever it reached
them. On touching his side, Sir Charles Blagden
found it cold like a corpse, and yet the heat of his
body under his tongue was 98°. Hence they con-
cluded that the human body possesses the power of
destroying a certain degree of heat when commu-
nicated with a certain degree of quickness. This
power, however, varies greatly in different media.
The same person who experienced no inconve-
nience from air heated to 211°, could just bear
rectified spirits of wine at 130°, cooling oil at 129°;
cooling water at 123°, 1md cooling quicksilver at
117°. A familiar instance of this occurred in the
heated room. All the pieces of metal there, even
their watch-chains, felt so hot that they could
scarcely bear to touch them for a moment, while
tile air from which the Ii1etal had derived all its
heat was only unpleasant. MM. Duhamel and
Tillet observed, at Rochefoucault in France, that
the girls who were accustomed to attend ovens in a
bakehouse, were capable of enduring for ten mi-
nutes a temperature of 270°.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SIR C. BLAGDEN's EXPERIMENTS, ETC. 311
The same gentlemen who performed the expe-
riments above described ventured to expose them-
selves to still higher temperatures. Sir Charles
Blagden went into a room where the heat was 1°
or 2° above 260°, and remained eight minutes in
this situation, frequently walking about to all the
different parts of the room, but standing still most
of the time in the coolest spot, where the heat was
above 240°. The air, though very hot, gave no
pain, and Sir Charles and all the other gentlemen
were of opinion that they could support a much
greater heat. During seven minutes Sir C. Blag-
den's breathing continued perfectly good, but after
that time he felt an oppression in his lungs, with a
sense of anxiety~ which induced him to leave. tho
room. His pulse was then 144, doQ.ble its ordi-
llary quickness. In order to prove that there was
no mistake respecting the degree of heat indicated
by the thermometer, and that the air which they
breathed was capable of producing all the well-
known effects of such a heat on inanimate matter,
they placed some eggs and a beef-steak upon a tin
frame near the thermometer, but moredistant from
the furnace than froni the wall of the room. In
the space of twenty minutes the eggs were roasted
quite hard, and in forty-seven minutes the steak
was not only dressed, but almost dry. Another
beef-steak, similarly placed, was rather over~one in
thirty-three minutes. In the evening, when the
heat was still more elevated, a thirdbeef-steak was
laid in the same place, and as they had noticed that
the effect of the hot air was greatly increased by
putting it in motion, they blew upon the steak with
a pair of bellows, and thus hastened the dressing
312 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
of it to such a degree, that the greatest portion of
it was found to be pretty well done in thirteen
-
minutes.
Our distinguished countryman, Mr. Chantrey,
has very recently exposed himselfto a temperature
still higher than any which we have mentioned.
The furnace which he employs for drying his
moulds is about 14 feet long, 12 feet high, and
12 feet broad. When it is raised to its highest
temperature, with the doors closed, the thermo-
meter stands at 350°, and the iron floor is red hot.
The workmen often enter it at a temperature of
340°, walking over the iron floor with wooden
clogs, which are of course charred on the surface.
On one occasion Mr. Chantrey, accompanied by
five or six of his friends, entered the furnace, and,
after remaining two minutes, they brought out a
thermometer which stood at 320°. Some of the
party experienced sharp pains in the tips of their
ears, and in the septum of the nose, wl1ile others
felt a pain in their eyes.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPO~TA::oi'EOUS COMHUSTIOV, 313
LETTER XIII.
Spontaneous combustion-In the absorption ofair bypowder-
ed cltt~rcoal-antl of hytlrogm by •pongy platinum-Dobe-
•·eintr's lamp-Spontaneous combu1tion in the bou•d• of
the earth-Burning cliff•-Burning •oil-Combustion
t1.1ithout jlame-Sponlaneour comb.ustion of human being•-
Counlrss Zangnri-Grace Pett-Naturaljire-femplet of
the Guebres-Sponlaneous .fire• in the Caspian Sea-
Spring• of injlnmmable gas near Gla~gow-Nalut•allight•
ltou1e of Maracaybo-New elastic fiuir:h in /he cavitiel
o.f gems-Ciumicul ope•·ation going on in tlteir cavitieB-
E:rplononB produced in t!um by heat-Remarkable
cltanges of colou•· from chemical catllti-E.ffect• of the
nitrou• o:ride or Paradiae ga• when breatlted-Remark-
Qble calf• described-Conclmion.
AMONG the wonderful phenomena which chemistry
presents to us, there are few more remarkable than
those of spontaneous combustion, in which bodies
both animate and inanimate emit flames, and are
sometimes entirely consumed by internal fire. One
ofthe commonest experiments in chemistry is that
of producing inflammation by mixing two fluids
perfectly cold. Becker, we believe, was the first
person who discovered that this singular effect was
produced by mixing oil of vitriol with oil of tur-
pentine. Borrichios showed that aquafortis pro-
duced the same effect as oil of vitriol. Tournefort
proved that spirit of nitre and oil of sassafras took
o''""' ,,Coogle
314 LBTTBRS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
fire when mixed; and Homberg discovered that the
same property was possessed by many volatile oils
when mixed with spirit of nitre.
Every person is familiar with the phenomena of
heat and ~combustion produced by fermentation.
Ricks of hay and stacks of corn have been fre-
quently consumed by the heat generated during the
fermentation produced from moisture; and gun-
powder-magazines, barns, and paper-mills, have
been often burned by the fermentation ofthe mate-
rials which they contained. Galen informs us that
the.dung of a pigeon is sufficient to set fire to a
house; and he assures us that he has often seen it
take fire when it had become rotten. Casati like-
wise relates on good authority, that the fire which
consumed the great church of Pisa was occaaioned
by the dung of pigeons thai had for centuries built .
their nests under its roof.
Among the substances subject to spontaneous
combustion, pulverised or finely-powdered charcoal
is one of the most remarkable. During the last
thirty years no fewer than four cases of the spon-
taneous inflammation of powdered charcoal have
taken place in France. When charcoal is trituratecl
in tuns with bronze bruisers, it is reduced into the
state ofthe finest powder. In thiscondition it has the<
appearance of an unctuous fluid, and it occupies a:
space three times less than it does in rods of about'
six inches long. In this state ofextrenie division.
it absorbs air much more readily than it does whetl!
in rods. This absorption, which is so slow as to:
require several days for its completion, is accompa-
Died with"a disengagement of heat, which rises-
from 340° to 360° nearly of Fahrenheit, and which.
o''""' ,,Coogle
DOBEREINER'S LAVP. 315
is the true cause of the spontaneous inflammation,
The inflammation commences near the centre of
the mass, at the depth of five or six inches beneath
its surface, and at this spot the temperature is al-
ways higher than at any other. Black charcoal,
strongly distilled, heats and inflames more easily
than the orange, or that which is little distilled, or
than the charcoal made in bailers. The most in-
flammable charcoal must have a mass of at least
66lbs. avoirdupois, in order that it may be suscep•
tible of spontaneous inflammation. With the other
less inflammable varieties, the inflammation takes
place only in larger masses.
The inflammation of powdered charcoal is more
active in proportion to the shortness of the interval
between its carbonization and trituration. The
free admission of air to the surface of the charcoal
is also indispensable to its spontaneous combustion.
Colonel Aubert, to whom we owe these interest-
ing results, likewise found that when sulphur and
saltpetre are added to the charcoal, it loses its power
of inflaming spontaneously. But as there is still
an absorption of air and a generation of heat, he is
of opinion that it would not be prudent to leave
these mixtures in too large masses after tritura-
tion.•
A species of spontaneous combustion, perfectly
analogous to that now described, but produced al-
most instantaneously, was discovered by Professor
Dobereiner ofJena, in 1824. He found that when a
jet ofhydrogen gas was thrown upon recently pre-
pared spongy platinum, the metal bec!l,me almost
*See Edinburgh:Journal of Science, Ne'v S~Hes, No.viii
P•274. ·
'''"'"'',Coogle
316 U:TTER9 ON NATURAL MAGIC.
instantly red hot, and set fire to the gas. In this
case the minutely divided platinum acted upon the
hydrogen gas, in the same manner as the minutely;
divided charcoal acted upon common air. Heat
and combustion were produced by the absorption of
both gases, though in the one case the effect was
instantaneous, and in the other was the result of a
prolonged absorption.
This beautiful property of spongy platinum was
happily applied to .the construction of lamps for
producing an instantaneous light. The form given
to the lamp by Mr. Garden of London is shown
in the annexed figure, where A B is a globe of
Fig. 78.
glass, fitting tightly into another glass globe C D
by a ground shoulder m n. The globe A B termi•
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION. 317
nates in a hollow tapering neck m n op, on the
lower end of which is placed a small cylinder of
~inc op. A brass tube a b c, is fitted at a into the
neck of the globe C D, and through this tube,
which is furnished with a stop-cock il, the gas can
escape at the small aperture c. A brass pin cf,
carrying a brass box P, is made to slide tlarough a
hole II, so that the brass box P, in which the spongy
platinum is placed, can be set at any required dis-
tance from the aperture c. If sulphuric acid di-
luted with an equal quantity of water is now poured
into the vessel A B by its mouth at S, now closed
with a stopper, the fluid will descend through the
tube m n o p, and if the cock d is shut, it will
compress the air contained inC D. The dilute acid
thus introduced into CD will act upon the ring of
zinc o p, and generate hydrogen gas, which, after
the atmospheric air in C D is let off, will gradually
fill the vessel CD, the diluted acid being forced up
the tube o p m n, into the glass globe A B. The
ring of zinc o p floats on a piece of cork, so that
when CD is full of hydrogen, the diluted acid does
not touch the zinc, and consequently is prevented
from producing any more gas. The instant, how.
ever, that any gas is let off at c, the pressure of
the fluid in the globe A B, and tube m nop, over-
comes the elasticity of the remaining gas in C D,
and forces the diluted acid up to the zinc op, so
as to enable it to produce more gas to supply what
has been used.
The lamp being suppli,fd with hydrogen in the
manner now described, it IS used in the following
manner. The spongy platinum in P being brought
near c, the cock d s turned, and the gas is thrown
o''""' ,,Coogle
318 LETTERS ON NATURAL 'MAGIC,
upon the platinum. An intense heat is immediately
produced, the platinum becomes red hot, and the
hydrogen inflames. A taper is then lighted at the
fiame, and the cock d is shut. Professor Cumming,
of Cambridge, found it necesBary to cover up the
platinum with a cap after every experiment. This
ingenious chemist likewise found, that, with plati-
num foil the 9000dth part of an inch thick kept in
11. close tube, the hydrogen was inflamed ; but whea
the foil was only the 6000dth of an inch thick, it
was necessary to raise it previously to a red heat.
Spontaneous combustion is a phenomenon which
occurs very frequently and often to a great extent
within the bowels of the earth. The heat by which
it is occasioned is produced by the decomposition
of mineral bodies, and other causes. This heat in-
creases in in~sity till it is eapable of melting the
solid materials which are exposed to it. Gases and
aqueous vapours of powerful elasticity are gene-
rated, new fluids of expansive energy imprisoned in
cavities under great pressure are set fiee, and these
tremendous agents, acting under the repressing
forces of the superincumbent strata, exhibit their
power in desolating earthquakes; or, forcing their
way through the superficial crust of the globe, they
waste their fury in volcanic eruptions.
When the phenomena of spontaneous combus-
tion take place near the surface of the earth, its ef-
fects are of a less dangerous character, though they
frequently give birth to permanent conflagrations,
which no power can extinguish. An example of
this milder species of spontaneous combustion has
been recently exhibited in the burning cliff at Wey-
mouth ; and a still .more interesting one exists at
o''""' ,,Coogle
COMBUSTION WITHOUT FLA.MB. 319
this moment near the village of Bradley, in Staf-
fordshire. The earth is here on fire, and this fire
has continued for nearly sixty years, and has re-
sisted every attempt that has been made to extin-
guish it. This fire, which has reduced many acres
of land to a mere calx, arises from a burning stra-
tum of coal about four feet thick and eight or teB.
yards deep, to which the air has free access, in
consequence of the main coal having been dug
from beneath it. The surface of the ground is
sometimes covered for many yards with such quan-
tities of sulphur that it can be easily gathered. The
calx has been found to be an excellent material
for the roads, and the workmen who collect it
often find large beds ofalum of an excellent quality.
A singular species of invisible combustion, or of
combustion without flame, has been frequently no-
ticed. I have observed this phenomenon in the
small green wax tapers in common use. When
the flame is blown out, the wick will continue red
hot for many hours; and if the taper were regu-
larly and carefully uncoiled, and the room kept free
from currents of air, the wickwould bum on in this
way till the whole of the taper is consumed. The
same effects are not produced when the colour of
the wax is red. In this experiment the wick, after
the flame is blown out, has sufficient heat to con-
vert the wax into vapour, and this vapour, being
consumed without flame, keeps the wick at its red
heat. A very disagreeable vapour is produced
during this imperfect combustion of the wax.
Prof. Dobereiner, of Jena, observed that, \vhen
the alcohol in a spirit of wine lamp was nearly ex-
hausted, the wick became carbonized, and though
the flame disappeared, the carbonized part of the
o''""' ,,Coogle
320 LETTERS ON NATURAL IIBGIC.
wick became red hot, and continued so while a
drop of alcohol remained, provided the air in
the room was undisturbed. On one occasion the
wick continued red hot for twenty-four hours, and
a very disagreeable acid vapour was formed. .
On these principles depend the lamp tvitlwut
flame which wasoriginally constructedby Mr. Ellis.
It is shown in the annexed figure, where A B is
Fig. i9.
the lamp, and h a cylindrical coil ofplatinum wire,
the hundredth part of an inch in diameter. This
spiral is so placed that four or five of the twelve
coils of which the cylinder consists are upon the
wick, and the other seven or eight ahove it. If the
lamp is lighted, and continues burning till the cy-
lindrical coil is red hot, then if the flanie is blown
out, the vapour which arises from the alcohol will
by its combustion keep the coils above the wick
red hot, and this red heat will in its turn keep up
the vaporisation of the alcohol till the whole of the
alcohol is consumed. The heat of the wire is al-
ways sufficient to kindle a piece ofGerman fungus
or saltpetre paper, so that a sulphur match may at
any time be lighted. Mr. Gill found that a wick
compost!d of twelv; threads of the cotton yarn com-
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION. 321
monly used for lamps will require half an ounce of
alcohol to keep the wire red hot for eight hours.
This lamp bas been kept burning for sixty hours ;
but it can scarcely be recommended for a bed-
room, as an acid vapour is disengaged during the
burning of the alcohol. When perfumes are dis-
solved in the alcohol, they are diffused through
the apartment during the slow combustion of the
vapour.
A species of combustion without flame, and
analogous to that which has been described, is
exhibited in the extraordinary phenomenon of the
spontaneous combustion·of living bodies. That
animal bodies are liable to internal combustion is
a fact which was well known to the ancients.
Many cases which have been adduced as exam-
ples of spontaneous combustion are merely cases of
individuals who were highly susceptible of strong
electrical excitation. In one of these cases, how-
ever, Peter Bovisteau asserts, that the sparks of
fire thus produced, reduced to ashes the hair of a
young man; and John de Viana informs us, that
the wife of Dr. Freilas, physician to the Cardinal
de Royas, Archbishop of Toledo, emitted by per-
spiration an inflammable matter of such a nature,
that when the ribbon which she wore over her shift
was taken from her, and exposed to the cold air,
it instantly took fire, and shot forth like grains of
gunpowder. Peter Borelli has recorded a fact of
the very samekind respecting a peasant whose linen
took fire, whether it was laid up in a box when
wet, or bung up in the open air. The same au-
thor speaks of a woman who, when at the point of
death, vomited flames; and Thomas Bartholin
X
o''""' ,,Coogle
322 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
mentions this phenomenon as having often hap-
pened to persons who were great drinkers of wine
or brandy. Ezekiel de Castro mentions the sin-
gular case of Alexandrinus Megetius, a physician,
from one of whose vertebrre there issued a 'fire
which scorched the eyes of the beholders; and
Krantzius relates, that during the wars of Godfrey
of Boulogne, certain people of the territory of
Nivers were burning with invisible fire, and that
some of them cut off a foot or a band where the
buming began, in order to arrest the C8lamity.
Nor have these effects been confined to man. In
the time of the Roman consuls Gracchus and J u-
ventius, a flame is said to have issued from the
mouth of a bull without doing any injury to the
animal. _ ·
The reader will judge of the degree of credit
which may belong to these narrations when be
examines the effects of a similar kind which have
taken place in less fabulous ages, and nearer our
own times. John Henry Cohaueen informs us,
that a Polish gentleman in the time of the Queen
Bona Sforza, having drunk two dishes of a liquor
called brandy-wine, vomited flames, and was
burned by them, and Thomas Bartholin* thus de-
srrihes a similar accident : " A poor woman at
Paris used to drink spirit of wine plentifully for the
apace of three years, so as to take nothing else.
Her body contracted such a combustible dispo-
eition, that one night, when she lay down on a
straw couch, she was all burned to ashes except
her skull and the extremities of her fingers.·~
John Christ. Sturmius informs us, in the German
• Acta Medica et Philotophica Bafuiensia, 1673.
o''""' ,,Coogle
CASE OF COUNTESS ZANGARI. 323
Ephemerides, that in the northern countries of
Europe flames often evaporate from the stomachs
of those who are addicted to the drinking of strong
liquors ; and he adds, " that sevent~en years be-
fore, three noblemen of Courland drank by emula-
tion strong liquors, and two of them died scorched
and suffocated by a flame which issued from their
.stomach."
One of the most remarkable cases of sponta-
neous combustion is that of the Countess Cornelia
Zangari aad Bandi of Cesena, which has been
minutely described by the Reverend Joseph Bian-
chini, a prebend in the city of Verona. This lady,
who was in the sixty-second year of her age, re-
tired to bed in her usual health. Here she spent
above three hours in familiar conversation with
her maid, and in saying her prayers:' and having
at last fallen asleep, the door of her chamber was
shut. As her maid was not summoned at the
usual hour, she went into the bed-room to wake
her mistress; but receiving no answer, she opened
the window, and saw her corpse on the floor in
the most dreadful condition. At the distance of
four feet from the bed there was a heap of ashes.
Her legs, with the stockings on, remained un-
touched, and the head, half burned, lay between
them. Nearly all the rest of the body was re-
duced to ashes. The air in the room was charged
with floating soot. A small oil-lamp on the floor
was covered with ashes, but had no oil in it ; and
in two candlesticks, which stood upright upon a
table, the cotton wick of both the candles was left,
and the tallow of both had disappeared. The bed
was not injured, and the blankets and sheets were
x2
•
o''""' ,,Coogle
324 LETTERS ON NATURAL 'MAGIC.
raised on one side, as if a person had risen up
from it. From an examination of all the circum-
stances of this case, it has been generally supposed
that an internal combustion had taken place; that
the lady had risen from her bed to cool herself,
and that, in her way to open the window, the
combustion had overpowered her, and consumed
her body by a process in which no flame was pro-
duced which could set fire to tl1e furniture or the
floor. The Marquis Scipio Maffei was informed
by an Italian nobleman who passed through Cesena
a few days after this event, that he heard it stated
in that town, that the Countess Zangari was in
the habit, when she felt herself indisposed, of
washing all her body with camphorated spirit of
wine.
So recently as 1744, a similar example of spon-
taneous combustion occurred in our own country,
at Ipswich. A fisherman's wife,_ of tbe name of
Grace Pett, of the parish of St. Clement's, had
been in the habit for several years of going down
stairs every night, after she was half undressed,
to smoke a pipe. She did this on the evening of
the 9th of April, 1744.. Her daughter, who lay
in the same bed with her, had fallen asleep, and
did not miss her mother till she awaked early in
the morning. Upon dressing herself, and going
down stairs, she found her mother's body lying
on the right side, with her head against the grate,
and extended over the hearth, with her legs on
the deal floor, and appearing like a block of wood
burning with a glowing fire without flame. Upon
quenching the fire with two bowls of water, the
neighbours, whom the cries of the daughter had
'''"'"'',Coogle
FIRE•TEMPLES OF THE GUEBRES, : 321)
brought in, were almost stifled with the smell.
The trunk of the unfortunate woman was almost
burned to ashes, and appeared like a heap of char·
coal covered with white a~hes. The head, arms;
legs, and thighs, were also much burned. There
was no fire whatever in the grate, and the cantlle
was burned out in the socket of the candlestick,
which stood by her. The clothes of a child on
one side of her, and a paper screen on the other~
were untouched; and the deal floor was neither
singed nor discoloured. It was said that the
woman had drunk plentifully of gin overnight in
welcoming a daughter who had recently returned
from Gibraltar.
Among the phenomena of the natural world
which are related to those of spontaneous combus-
tion, are what have been called the natural fire-
temples of the Guebres, and the igneous pheno-
mena which are seen in their vicinity. The an-
cient sect of the Guebres or Parsecs, distinguished
from all other sects as the worshippers of fire,
had their origin in Persia ; but, being scattered
by persecution, they sought an asylum on the
shores of India. Those who refused to expatriate
themselves continued to inhabit the shores of the
Caspian Sea, apd the cities of Ispahan, Yezd, and
Kerman. Their great fire-temple, called Attush
Kudda, stands in the vicinity of Badku, one of
the largest and most commodious ports in the
Caspian. In the neighbourhood of this town the
earth is impregnated with naphtha, an inflam-
mable mineral oil, and the inhabitants have no
other fuel, and no other light, but what is derived
from this substance.
o''""' ,,Coogle
/
326 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
The remains of the ancient fire-temples of the
Guebres are still visible about ten miles to the
north-east of the town. The temple in which the
Deity is worshipped under the form of fire is a
!!paCe about thirty yards square, surrounded with
a low wall, and containing many apartments. In
each of these a small volcano of sulphureous fire
issues from the ground through a furnace or funnel
in the shape of a Hindoo altar. On closing the
funnel, the fire is instantly extinguished ; and by
placing the ear at the aperture, a hollow sound is
heard, accompanied with a strong current of cold
air, which may be lighted at pleasure by holding
to it any burning substance. The flame is of a
pale, clear colour, without any perceptible smoke,
and emits a highly sulphureous vapour, which
impedes respiration, unless when the mouth is kept-
beneath the level of the furnace. This action on
the lungs gives the Guebres a wan and emaciatecl
appearance, and oppresses them with a hectic
cough, which strangers also feel while .breathing
this insalubrious atmosphere.
For about two miles in circumference, round the
principal fire, the whole ground, when scraped to
the depth of two or three inches, has the singular
property of being inflamed by a burning coal. In
this case, however, it does not communicate fire
to the adjacent ground: but if the earth is dug
up with a spade, and a torch brought near it, an
extensive but instantaneous conflagration takes
place, in which houses have often been destroyed,
and the lives of the people exposed to imminent
llanger.
When the sky is clear and the ·weather serene,
o''""' ,,Coogle
FIRE-TEMPLES OF THE GUEBRBS. 327
the springs in their ebullition do not rise higher
than two or three feet; but in gloomy weather,
and during the prevalence of stormy clouds, the
springs arein a state of the greatest ebullition, and
the naphtha, which often takes fire spontaneously
at the earth's surface, flows burning i~ great quan-
tities to the sea, which is frequently covered with
it, in a state of flame, to the distance of several
leagues from the shore. ._
Besides the fires in the temple, there is a large
one which springs from a natural cliff in an open
situation, and which continually burns. The ge-
neral space in which this volcanic fire is most
abun<tant is somewhat less than a mile in circuit.
It forms a low flat hill, sloping to the sea, the soil
of which is a sandy earth, mixed with stones~
Mr. Forster did not observe any violent eruption
of flame in the country around the Attush Kudda;
but Kinneir informs us, that the whole country
round Badku has at times the appeaTance of being
enveloped in flames. " It often seems," he adds,
" as if the fire rolled down from the mountains in
large masses, and with incredible velocity; and
during the clear moonshine nights of November
and December, a bright blue light is observed at
times to cover the whole western range. The fire
does not consume ; and if a person finds himself
in the middle of it, no warmth is felt."
The inhabitants apply theBe natural fires to
domestic purposes, by sinking a hollow cane or
~erely a tube of paper, about two inches in the
ground, and by blowing upon a burning coal held
near the orifice of the tube, there issues a slight
flame, which neither burns the cane nor the paper.
o''""' ,,Coogle
328 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
By means of these canes or paper tubes, from
which the fire issues, the inhabitants boil the
water in their coffee-urns, and even cook different
articles of food. The flame is put out by merely
plugging up the orifice. The same tubes are
employed for illuminating houses that are not
paved. The'smell of naphtha is of course diffused
through the house ; but after any person is accus-
tomed to it, it ceases to be disagreeable. The
inhabitants also employ this natural fire in cal-
cining lime. The quantity of naphtha procured
in the plain to the south-east of Badku is enor-
mous. It is drawn from wells, some of which
yield from 1000 to 1500lbs. per day; As soon
as these wells are emptied, they fill again till the
naphtha rises to its original level"·
Inflammable gal!es issuing from the earth have
been used both iu the old and the new world for
domestic purposes. In the salt mine of Gottes-
gabe, at Rheims, in the county of Fecklenburg,
there is a pit called the Pit of the Wind, from
which a constant current of inflammable gas has
issued for sixty years. M. Roeder, the inspector
of the mines, has used this gas for two years, not
only as a light, but for all the purposes of domestic
economy. hi the pits which are not worked, he
collects the gas, and conveys it in tubes to his
house. It burns with a white and brilliant flame,
has a density of about 0.66, and contains traces
of carbonic acid gas and sulphuretted hydrogen t.
Near the village of Fredonia, in North America,
on the shores of Lake Erie, are a number of burn-
• S~:e Fur.ter's Travels,and Kinneir's G~:og. Memoir.
t Edinburgh Journal of Science, No. xv. P• 183.
o''""' ,,Coogle
SPRINGS OF INFLAMllABLB GAS. 329
ing ,!!prings as they are called. The inflammable
gas which issues from these springs is conveyed in
pipes to the village, which is actually lighted by
them•.
In the year 1828, a copious spring of inflam~
mabie gas was discovered in Scotland, in the bed
of a rivulet which crosses the north road between
Glasgow and Edinburgh, a little to the east of the
seventh mile-stone from Glasgow, and only a few
hundred yards from the bouse of Bedlay. The
gas is eaid to issue for more than halfa mile along
the banks ofthe rivulet. Dr. Thompson, who bas
analysed the gas, saw it issuing only within a
space about fifty yards in length, and about halfas
much in breadth. " The emission' of gas was
visible in a good many pl11ces along the declivity
to the rivulet in the immediate neighbourhood of
a small farm-house. The farmer had set the gas
on fire in one place about a ·ynrd square, out of
which a great many small jets were issuing. It
had burnt without interruption during five weeks,
and the soil (which was clay) bad assumed the
appearance of pounded brick all around.
" The flame was yellow and strong, and resem-
bled ·perfectly the appearance which carburetted
hydrogen gas or fire damp presents when burnt
in daylight. But the greatest issue of gas was
in the rivulet itself, distant about twenty yards
from the place where the gas was burning. The
rivulet, when I visited tl1e place, was swollen and
muddy, so as to prevent its bottom from being seen.
But the gas issued up through it in one place with
great violence, as if it had been in a state of com-
• Edinburgh Journal o( Science, No. xv. p. 183•.
o''""' ,,Coogle
::30 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
pression under the surface of the earth ; and the
thickness of the jet c.ould not be less than two or
three inches in diameter. We set the gas on fire
as it issued through the water. It burnt for some
time with a good deal of splendour ; but as the
rivulet was swollen, and rushing along with great
impetuosity, the regularity of the issue was neces-
•rily disturbed, and the gas was extinguished."
Dr. Thompson found this gas to consist of two
volumes of hydrogen gas, and one volume of va-
pour of carbon; and as its specific gravity was
0.555, and as it issues in great abundance, he
remarks that it might be used fur filling air-bal-
loons. "Were we assured," he adds, " that it
would continue to issue in as great abundance as
at present, it might be employed in lighting the
streets of Glasgow.'""
A very curious natural phenomenon, called the
Lantern or Natural Lighilwuse of Maracaybo,
has been witnessed in South America. A bright
light is seen every night on a mountainous and un-
inhabited spot on the banks ofthe river Catatumbo,
near its junction with the Sulia. It is easily dis-
tinguished at a greater distance than forty leagues,
and as it is nearly in the meridian of the opening
ef the Lake of Maracaybo, navigators are guided
by it as by a lighthouse. This phenomenon is
not only seen from the sea-coast, but also from the
interior of the country-at Merida, for example,
where M. Palacios observed it for two years. Some
persons.have ascribed this remarkable phenomenon
to a thunder-storm, or to electrical explosions
• Edinburgh Journal of E1lienoe, No. I. New Series, p.
71-76.
o''""' ,,Coogle
FLUIDS IN MINKRA.t CA.VITIES, 331
which might take place daily in a pass in the
mountains; and it has even been asserted, that
the rolling of thunder is heard by those who ap,.
proach the spot. Others suppose it to be an air
volcano, like those on the Caspian Sea, and that it
is caused by asphaltic soils like those ofMena. It
-is more probable, however, that it is a sort of car-
buretted hydrogen, as hydrogen gas is disengaged
from the ground in the·same district.•
Grand as the chemical operations are which are.
going on in the great laboratory of Nature, and
alarming as their effects appear when they are dis-
played in the terrors of the earthqualm and the viJl,..
cano, yet they are not more wonderful to the phi-
losopher than the minute though analogous opera-
tions which are often at work near our own persons,
unseen and unheeded. It is not merely. in the
bowels of the earth that highly expansive elements
are imprisoned and restrained, and occasionally:
called into tremendous action by the excitation
of heat and other cause&.. Fluids and vapours of a
similar character exist in the very gems and pre-
cious stones which science has contributed to lux-
ury and to the arts.
In examining with the microscope the structure
of mineral bodies, I discovered in the interior o~
many of the gems thousands of cavities of various
forms and sizes. Some had the shape of hollow
and regularly formed crystals; others possess_ed tl1e
most irregular outline, and consisted ofmany cavi-
ties and branches united without order, but all com-
municating with each other. These cavities some-
times occurred singly, but most frequently in groups
• Humboldt's Pei'IIOnalNarrative; Vol. iv. p. 254, note.
o''""' ,,Coogle
332 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
forming II!J'ata of cavities at one time perfectly flat
and at another time curved. Several such strat&
were often found in the same specimen, sometimes
parallerto each other, at other times inclined, and
forming all varieties of angles with the faces of the
original crystal.
These cavities, which occurred in sappl&ire, chry-
SQberyl, topaz, beryl, quartz, amethyst, perid<Jt,
and other substances, were sometimes sufficiently
large to be distinctly seen by the naked eye, but
most frequently they were so small as to require &
high magnifying power to be well seen, and often
they were so exceedingly minute, that the highest
magnifying powers were unable to exhibit their
outline.
The greater number ofthese cavities,whether large
or small, contain two new fluids different from any
hitherto known, and possessing remarkable physi-
cal properties. These two fluids are in general
perfectly transparent and colourless, and they exist
in the same cavity in actual contact, without mix-
ing together in the slightest degree. One of them
expands thirty times more than water, and at a tem-
perature of about 80° ofFahrenheit it expands so as
to fill up the vacuity in the cavity. This will be un-
derstood from the annexed figure, where A B CD is
Fig. 80,
d
'''"'"'',Coogle
~'
VAPOUR CAVITIES IN MINERALS. 333
the cavity, m n p o the highly expansible fluid in
which at low temperatures there is always a vacuity
V, like an air-bubble in common fluids, and A m n,
Cop, the second fluid occupying the anglesAand C.
When heat sach as that of the hand is applied to
the specimen, the vacuity V gradually contracts in
size, and wholly vanishes at a temperature of about
80°, as shown in Fig. 81. The fluids are shaded, as
in these two figures, when they are seen by light
reflected from their surfaces.
Fig. 81.
When the c;avities are large, as in Fig. 82, com
pared with the quantity of expansible fluid m n p o,
the heat converts the fluid into vapour, an effect
Fig. 82.
o''""' ,,Coogle
334 LETTKllS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
which is shown by the circular cavity V becoming
larger and larger till it fills the whole space m n o p.
When any of these cavities, whether they are
filled with fluid orwith vapour, is allowed to cool, the
vacuity V reappears at a certain temperature. In
the fluid cavities the fluid contracts, and the small
vacuity appears, which grows larger and larger till
it resumes its original size. When the cavities are
large, several small vacuities make their appearance
and gradually unite into one, though they some-
times remain separate. In deep cavities a very re-
markable phenomenon accompanies the reappear-
ance of the vacuity. At the instant that the fluid
has acquired the temperature at which it quits
the sides of the cavity, an effervescence or rapid
ebullition takes place, and the transparent cavity
is for a moment opaque, with an infinite number of
minute vacuities, which instantly unite into one
that goes on enlarging as the temperature dimi-
nishes. In the vapour cavities the vapour is
reconverted by the cold into fluid, and the vacuity
V. Fig. 82, graduall.J contracts till all the vapour
bas been precipitated. Ttis curious to observe, when
a great number of cavities are seen at once in the
field of the microscope, that the vacuities all dis-
appear and reappear at the 1tame instant.
While all these changes are going on in the ex-
pansive fluid, the other denser fluid at A and C,
Fig. 80, 8l, remains unchanged either in its form
or magnitude. On this account I experieaoed con-
siderable difficulty in proving that it was a fluid.
The improbability of two fluids existing in a trans-
pareut state in absolute contact, ·without mixing in
the slightest degree, or acting upon each other,.
o''""' ,,Coogle
CAVITIES IN MINERALS. 33S
induced many persons to whom [ showed the phe-
nomenon to consider the lines m n, op,Fig. 80, 81,
as a partition in the cavity, orthe spaces Am n, o p
C, either.as filled with solid matter, or as comers
into which the expandingfluid would not penetrate.
The regular curvature, however, of the boundary
line m no p, and other facts, rendered these suppo-
sitions untenable.
This difficulty was at last entirely removed by
the discovery of a cavity of the form shown in the
annexed figure, where A, B, and C, are three por-
tions of the expansible fluid separated by the inter-
Fig. 83.
position of the second fluid DEF. The first por-
tion A of the expansible fluid had four vacuities
V, X, Y, Z, while the other two portions B, C,
had no vacuity. In order to determine if the va-
cuities of the portions B, C, had passed over to A,
I took an accunte drawing of the appearances at
a temperature of 50°, as shown in the figure, and
I watched the changes which took place in raising
the temperature to 83°. The portion A gradually
expanded itself till it filled up all the four vacuities
V, X, Y, and Z, ~ut as the vacuities B, C, had no
vacuities, they could expand themselves only by
pushing back the supposed 1!Ccond fluid D E F.
o''""' ,,Coogle
336 LETTERS O!'f NATURAL MAGIC.
This . effect actually took place. The dense fluid
quitted the side of the cavity at F. The two portions
B, C, of the expansible fluid instantly united, and
the dense fluid having retreated to the limit m n
no, its other limit advanced top q r, thus proving
it to be a real fluid. This experiment, which I
have often shown to others, involves one of those
rare combinations of circumstances which nature
sometimes presents to us in order to illustrate her
most mysterious operations. Had the portions
B, C, been accompanied, as is usual, with their
vacuities, the interposed fluid would have remained
immoveable between the two equal and opposite
expansions; but owing to the accidental circum-
stance of these vacuities having passed over into
the other branch A of the cavity, the fluid yielded
to the difference of the expansive forces between
which it lay, and thus exhibited its fluid character
to the eve.
When we examine these cavities narrowly, we
find that they are actually little laboratories, in
Fig. 84.
c
o''""' ,,Coogle
FLUIDS IN MINERALS, 337
which chemical operations are constantly going on,
and beautiful optical phenomena continually dis-
playing themselves. Let A B DC, for example, be
the summit of a crystallized cavity in topaz, S S
representing the dense, N N the expansible fluid,
bounded by a circular line a b c d, and V V the
vacuity in the new fluid, bounded by the circle ef
9 h. If the face A B D C is placed under a com-
pound microscope, so that light may be reflected
at an angle less than that of total reflexion, and if
the observer now looks through the microscope, the
temperature of the room being 50°, he will see the
second fluid S S shining with a very feeble reflected
light, the dense fluid N N with a light perceptibly
brighter, and the vacuity V V with a light of con-
siderable brilliancy. The boundaries abc d, ej
9 h, are marked by a well-defined outline, and also
by the concentric coloured rings of thin plates
produced by the extreme thinness of each of the
fluids at their edges.
If the temperature of the room is raised slowly
to 58°, a brown spot will appear at x in the centre
of the vacuity V V. This spot indicates the com-
mencement of evaporation from the expansible
fluid below, and arises from the partial precipitation
of the vapour in the roof of the cavity. As the
beat increases, the brown spot enlarges and becomes
very dark. It is then succeeded by a white spot,
and one or more coloured rings rise in the centre
.of the vacuity. The vapour then seems to form a
drop, and all the rings disappear by retiring to the
centre, but only to reappear with new lustre.
During the application ·of heat, the circle ef g h
contracts and dilates like the pupil of the eye.
T
o''""' ,,Coogle
338 LET'rEM ON NATURAL MAGIC.
When the vaporization is so feeble as to produce
only a single ring of one or two tints of the second
order, they ..,·anish instantly by b~thing upon the
crystal ; but when the slight heat of the breath
reaches the fluid, it throws off fresh vapour, and
the rings again appear. ·
If a drop of ether is put upon the crystal when
the rings are in a state of rapid play, tlte cold pro-
duced by its evaporation causes them to disappear,
till the temperature again rises. When the tem-
perature is perfectly uniform, the rings are sta-
tionary, as shown between V and V in Fig. 84 ; and.
it is interesting to observe the first ring produced
by the vapour swelling out to meet the first ring at
the margin of the fluid, and sometimes coming so.
near it that the darkest parts of both form a broad
black band. As the heat increases, the vacuity V
V diminishes and disappears at 79°, exhibiting
many curious phenomena, which we have not room
to describe. ,
Having fallen upon a method of opening the cavi-
ties, and looking at the fluids, I was ahle to examine
their properties with more attention. When the
expansible fluid first rises from the cavity upon the
11urface of the topaz, it neither remains still like the
fixed oils, nor disappears like evaporable fluids.
Under the influence, no doubt, ofheat and moisture,
it is in a state of constant motion, now spreading
itself on a thin plate over a large surface, and now
contracting itself into a deeper and much less ex-
tended drop. These contr~ctions and extensions
are marked by very beautiful optical phenomena.
When the fluid has stretched itself out into a thin
· o''""' ,,Coogle
NEW FLUIDS IN MINERALS, 339
plate, it ceases to reflect light like the thinnest part
ofthe soap-bubble; and when it is again accumu-
lated into a thicker drop, it is covered with the co-
loured rings of thin plates.
Mter performing these motions, which some-
times last for ten minutes, the fluid suddenly
disappears, and leaves behind it a sort of granular
residue. When examining this with a single mi-
croscope, it again started into a fluid state, and
extended and contracted itself as before. This was
owing to the humidity of the hand which held the.
microscope, and I have been able to restore by
moisture the fluidity of these grains twenty days
after they were formed from the fluid. This portion
was shown to the Rev. Dr. Fleming, who remarked,
.that, had he observed it ·accidentally, he would
have ascribedits apparentvitality to the movements
of some of the animals of the genus Planaria.
After the cavity has remained open for a day or
two, the dense fluid comes out and quickly hardens
into a transparent and yellowish resinous-looking
substance, which absorbs moisture, though with
less avidity than the other. It is not volatilized
by heat, and is insoluble in water and alcohol. It
readily dissolves, however, with effervescence in
the sulphuric, niftic, and muriatic acids. The re-
sidue of the expansible fluid is volatilized by heat,
and. is dissolved, but without effervescence, in the
above-mentioned acids. The refractive power of
the dense fluid is about 1.295, and of the expan-
sible one 1.131.
The particles of the dense fluid have .a very
powerful attraction for each other and for the
mineral which contains them, while those of the
Y2
340 LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
expansible fluid have a very slight attraction for-
one another, and also for the substance of the
mineral. Hence the two fluids never mix, the
dense fluid being attracted to the angles of angu-
lar cavities, or filling the narrow necks by which
two cavities communicate. The expansible fluid,.
on the other hand, fills the wide parts of the cavi-
ties, and in deep and round cavities it lies above
the dense fluid.
When the dense fluid occupies the necks which
join two cavities, it performs the singular function
of a fluid valve, opening and shutting itself accord-
ing to the expansions or contractions of the other
fluid. The fluid valves thus exhibited in action
may suggest some useful hints to the mechanic
and the philosopher, while they afford ground of
curious speculation in reference to the functions
of animal and vegetable bodies. In the larger
organizations of ordinary animals, where gravity
must in general overpower, or at least modify, the
influence of capillary attraction, such a mechanism
is neither necessary nor appropriate ; but, in the
lesser functions of the same animals, and in almost
all the microscopic structures of the lower world,.
where the force of gravity is entirely subjected to
the more powerful energy of capillary forces, it is
extremely probable that the mechanism of immis-
cible fluids and fluid valves is generally adopted.
In several cavities in minerals I have found crys-
tallised and other bodies, sometimes transparent
crystals, sometimes black spicular crystals, and
sometimes black spheres, all of which are moveable
within the cavity. In ~>orne cavities the two new
fluids occur in an indurated state, and others I have.
· o''""' ,,Coogle
CHANGE OF COLOUR 1:>1' CLOTHES. 341
found to be lined with a powdery matter. This
last class of cavities occurred in topaz, and they
were distinguished from all others by the extraor-
dinary beauty and symmetry of their form. One
of these cavities represented a finely ornamented
sceptre, and, what is still more singular, the dif-
ferent parts of which it is composed lay in differ-
ent planes.
When the gem which contains the highly ex-
pansive fluid is stroug, and the cavity not near
the surface, heat may be applied to it without
danger; but in the course of my experiments on
this subject, the mineral has often burst with a
tremendous explosion, and in one case wounded
me on the brow. An accident of the same kind
occurred to a gentleman who put a crystal into
his mouth for the purpose of expanding the fluid.
The specimen burst with great force and cut his
mouth, and the fluid which was discharged from
the cavity bad a very disagreeable taste.
In the gems which are peculiarly appropriated
for female ornaments, cavities containing the ex-
pan!!ive fluid frequently occur, and if these cavi-
ties should happen to be very near the surface or
the edge of the stone, the fever heat of the body
might be sufficient to burst them with an alarming
and even dangerous explosion. I have never
heard of any such accident having occurred; but
if it has, or if it ever shall occur, and if its natu-
rally marvellous character shall be heightened by
any calamitous results, the phenomena described
in the preceding pages will strip it of its wonder.
There are no facts in chemistry more interesting
than those which relate to the changes of colour,
o''""' ,,Coogle
.....
342 LETTERS ON NAT'gRAL MAGIC.
which are produced by the mixture of fluids, and
to the creation of brilliant colour~ by the combina-
tion of bodies in which no .colouring matter is visi-
ble. Feats of this kind are too common and too
generally known to require to be noticed in a work
like this. The art of producing such changes
was known to some of the early impoator11, who
endeavoured to obtain a miraculous sanction to their
particular dogmas. Marcos, the head of one-of the
sects that wished to engraft paganism upon Chrie-
tianity, is said to have filled three transparent
glasses with white wine, and while he prayed, the
wine in one of the glasses became red like bloo~
that in another became purple, and that in the
third sky-blue. Such traMformations present no
difficulty to the chemist. There are several fluid~
such as some of the coloured juices of plants~
which change their colour rapidly and without any
additional ingredient : and in other cases, there
would be no difficulty- in making additions to fluids
which should produce a change of colour at any
required instant.
A very remarkable experiment of an analogous
nature has been publicly exhibited in modem
tim!!i!. Professor Beyruss, who lived at the court
of the Duke of Brunswick, one day pronounced to
his highness that the dress which he wore shoultl
during dinner become red; and the change actu-
any took place, to the astonishment_of the prince
and the rest of his guests. M. Vogel, who has
.recorded this curious fact, 'has not divulged the
secret of the German chemist; but he observes.
that if we pour lime-water into the juice of. beet-
root~ we shall obtain a colourless liquid; and that
o''""' ,,Coogle
BFFBCTS OPt INTOXICATING GAS. 343
a piece of white cloth dipped in this liquid and
dried rapidly, will in a few hours become red by the
mere contact of air. M. Vogel is also of opinion
that this singular effect would be accelerated in
1ln apartment where champagne or other fluids ·
charged with carbonic acid are poured out in
abuud11nce.
Among the wonders of chemistry we must num-
ber the remarkable effects produced upon the
human frame by the inhalation of paradise or
intoxicating gas, as it has been called. This gB.B
is known to chemists by the name of the nitrous
oxide, or the gaseous oxide of azote, or the pro-
toxide of nitrogen. It differs from atmospheric
air only in the proportion of its ingredients, atmo-
spheric air being composed of twenty-seven parts
of oxygen, and seventy-three of nitrogen, while the
nitrous oxide consists of thirty-seven parts of oxy-
gen, and sixty-seven of nitrogen. The most con-
venient way of procuring the gas fs to expose
nitrate of ammonia in a tubulated glass retort to
the heat of an Argand's lamp between 400° and
500° of Fahrenheit. The salt first melts; bubbles
of gas begin to rise from the mass, and in a short
time a..brisk effervescence takes place, which con-
tinues till all the salt has disappeared. The pro-
ducts of this operation are the nitrous oxide and
water, the watery vapour being condensed in.the
neck of the retort, while the gas is received over
water. The gas thus obtained is generally white,
and hence, when it is to be used for the purposes
of respiration, it should remain at least an hour
bver water, which will absorb the small quantity
of acid and of nitrate of ammonia which adhere to
'''"'"'',Coogle
344 LRTTRR9 O!'f NATURAL MAGIC.
it. A pound of the nitrate of ammonia will in this
way yield five cubic feet of gas :fit for the purpose
of inhalation.
It was discovered by Sir Humphry Oavy, that
this gas could be safely taken into the lungs, and
that it was_ capable of supporting respiration for a
few minutes. In making this experiment he was
surprised to find that it produced a singular species
of intoxication, which he thus describes: "I
breathed," says he, "three quarts of oxide from
and into a silk bag for more than half a minute
without previously closing my nose or exhausting
my lungs. The first inspiration caused a slight
degree of giddiness. This was succeeded by an
uncommon sense of fulness in the head, accompa-
nied with loss of distinct sensation and voluntary
power, a feeling analogous to that produced in the
first stage of intoxication, but unattended by plea-
surable sensations." In describing the effects of
another experiment, he says, " Having previously
closed my nostrils and exhausted my lungs, I
breathed four quarts of nitrous oxide from and into
a silk bag. The first feelings were similar to those
produced in the last experiment, but in less than
half a minute, the respiration being continued,
they diminished gradually, and were succeeded by
a highly pleasurable thrilling, particularly in the
chest and the extremities. The objects around me
betl'ame dazzling, and my hearing more acute. To-
wards the last respiration the thrilling increased,
the sense of muscular power became greater, and
at last an irresistible propensity to action was in-
dulged in. I recollect but indistinctly what fol:.
lowed; I knew that my motions were varied and
'''"'"'',Coogle
EFFECTS OF JNTOXICATlNG GAS. 345
'\<iolent. These .effects very rarely ceased after
respiration. In ten minutes I had recovered my
natural state of mind. The thrilling in the ex-
tremities continued longer than the other sensa-
tions. This experiment was made in the morn-
ing; no languor or exhaustion was consequent, my
feelings through the day were as usual, and I
passed the night in undisturbed repose."
In giving an account of another experiment with
this gas, Sir Humphry thus describes his feelings:
" Immediately after my return from a long jour-
ney, being fatigued, I respired nine quarts of ni-
trous oxide, having been precisely thirty-three days
without breathing any. The feelings were differ-
ent from those I had experienced on former expe-
riments. Mter the first six or seven respirations,
I gradually began to lose the perception of exter•
nal things, and a vivid and intense recollection of
some former experiments passed through my
mind, so that I called out, ' What an annoying
concatenation of ideas!' "
Another experiment made by the same distin-
guished chemist-was attended by still more remark-
able results. He was shut up in an air-tight
breathing-box, having a capacity of about nine
and a half cubic. feet, and he allowed himself to be
habituated to the excitement of the.gas, which was
gradually introduced. After having undergone this
operation for an hour and a quarter, during which
eighty quarts of gas were thrown in, he came out
of the box and began to respire twenty quarts of
unmingled nitrous oxide. " A thrilling," says he,
" extending from the chest to the extremities, was
almost immediately produced. I felt a sense of
o''""' ,,Coogle
..
34o LETTBRS ON NA.TURA.L HA.GIC.
-tangible extension, highly pleasurable in every
·kind; my visible impressions were dazzling and
apparently magnified ; I .heard distinctly every
·eound in the room, and was perfectly aware of my
•ituation. By degrees, as the pleasurable sensa- ·
tion increased, I lost all connexion with external
thing6 ; trains of vivid visible images rapidly
passed through my mind, and were connected witb ·
;words in such a manner as to produce perceptions
perfectly novel. I existed in a world of newly .
connected and newly modified ideas. When I :was
awakened from this same delirious trance by Dr.
Kinglake, who took the bag from my mouth, in-
dignation and pride were the fint feelings pro-
-duced by-the sight of the persons about me. My
emotions were enthusiastic and sublime, and for a
moment I walked round the room, perfectly re-
gardleBB of what was said to me. As I recovered
my former state of mind, I felt an inclination to
communicate the discoveries I had made during
the experiment. I endeavoured to recall the ideas;
they were feeble and indistinct. One recollection
of terms, however, presented iteelf, and with the
most intense belief and prophetic manner I ex-
claimed to Dr. Kinglake, 'Nothing exists but
1houghts ; the universe is composed of impres-
·•ions, ideas, pleasures, and pains!'"
These remarkable properties induced several
:persons to ·repeat the experiment of breathing this
.exhilarating medicine. Its effects were, as might
have been expected, various in different indivi-
duals; but its general effect was to produce in the
gravest and most phlegmatic the highest degree of
exhilaration and happiness, unaccompanied wita
o''""' ,,Coogle
EFFECTS OF INHALING NITROUS OXIDE. 341
languor or depression. In some it created an
irresistible disposition to laugh, and in others a
propensity to muscular exertion. In some it im-
paired the intellectual functions, and in several it
had no sensible effect, even when it was breathed
in the purest state, and in considerable quantities.
.It would be an inquiry of no slight interest to
ascertain the influence of this gas .over persons of
various bodily temperaments, .and upon· minds
·varying in their intellectual and moral character.
Although Sir Humphry Davy experienced no
unpleasant effects from the inhalation ofthe nitrous
oxide,.yet such effects are undoubtedly produced ;
and there is reason to believe that even permanent
changes in the constitution may be induced by
the operation of this remarkable stimulant. Two
very interesting cases of this kind presented them-
selves to ProfeBBor Silliman, of Yale College, when
the nitrous oxide was administered to some of his
pupils. The students had been in the habit, for
several years, of preparing this gas, and adminis-
tering it to one another, and these two cases were
.the only remarkable ones which deserved to be
recorded. We shall describe them in ProfeSBOr
Silliman's own words :-
'' A gentleman, about nineteen years of age, of
a sanguine temperament, and cheerful temper,
and in the most perfect ·health, inhaled the usual
quantity of the nitrous oxide, when prepared in
the ordinary manner. Immediately his feelings
were uncommonly elevated, so that, as he ex-
pressed it, .he could not refrain from dancing and
shouting. Indeed to such a degree was he excited,
that he was thrown into a frightful fit of delirium,
o''""' ,,Coogle
348 . LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
and his exertions became so violent, that after a
while he sunk to the earth exhausted, and there
remained, until having by quiet in some degree
recovered his strength, he again arose, only to
renew the most convulsive muscular efforts, and
the most piercing screams and cries; within a
few moments, overpowered by the intensity of the
paroxysm, he 11.gain fell to the ground, apparently
senseless, and panting vehemently. The long
continuance and violence of the affection alarmed
his companions, and they ran for professional
assistance. They were, however, encouraged by
the person to whom they applied to hope that he
would come out of his trance without injury; but
for the space of two hours these symptoms con-
tinued; he was perfectly unconscious of what he
was doing, and was in every respect like a maniac.
He states; however, that h1s feelings vibrated be-
tween perfecthappiness and the most consummate
misery. In the course of the afternoon, and after
the first violent effects had subsided, he was com-
pelled to lie down two or three times from excessive
fatigue, although he was immediately aroused upon
any one's entering the room. The effects remained
in a degree for three or four days, accompanied
by a hoarseness, which he attributed to the exer-
tion made while under the immediate influence of
the gas. This case should produce a degree of
(:aution, especially in persons of a sanguine tem-
perament, whom, much more frequently than
others, we have seen painfully, and even alarm-
ingly affected." ·
The other case described by Professor Silliman
was that of a man of mature age, and of a grave ·
o''""' ,,Coogle
.EFFECTS OF INHALING NITROUS OXIDE. 34 9
and respectable character. "For nearly two years
previous to his taking the gas, his health had
been very delicate, and his mind frequently gloomy
and depressed. This was peculiarly the case for
a few days immediately preceding that time ; and
his general state of health was such, that he was
obliged almost entirely to discontinue his studies,
and was about to have recourse to medical assist-
ance. In this state of bodily and mental debility,
he inspired about three quarts of nitrous oxide.
The consequences were, an astonishing invigora-
tion of his whole system, and the most exquisite
perceptions of delight. These were manifested by
an uncommon disposition for pleasantry and mirth,
and by extraordinary muscular power. The effects
of the gas were felt without diminution for at least
thirty hours, and in a greater or less degree for
more than a week.
" But the most remarkable effect was that upon
the organs of taste. Antecedently to taking the
gas, he exhibited no peculiar choice in the articles
of food, but immediately subsequent to that event,
he manifested a taste for such things only as were
sweet, and for several days ate rwthing but sweet
cake. Indeed this singular taste was carried to
such excess, that he used sugar and molasses, not
only upon !tis bread and butter, and lighter food,
but upon his meat £!-nd vegetables. This he con-
tinues to do even at the present time; and although
eig}lt weeks have elapsed since he inspired the gas,
he is still found pouring molasses over beef; fish,
poult1y, potatoes, cabbage, or whatever animal or
vegetable food is placed before him.
" His health and spirits since that time have
o''""' ,,Coogle
36{) LETTERS ON NATURAL MAGIC.
been uniformly good, and he attributes the resto-
ration of his strength and mental energy to the
influence of the nitrous oxide. He is entirely
regular in his mind, and now experiences no un-
common exhilaration, but is habitually cheerful,
while before he was as habitually grave, and even
to a degree gloomy."
Such is a brief and a general account of the
principal phenomena of Nature, and the most re-
markable deductions of science, to which the name
of Natural Magic has been applied. If those who
have not hitherto sought for instruction and amuse-
ment in the study of the material world, shall have
found a portion of either in the preceding-pages,-
they will not fail to extend their inquiries to other
popular departments of science, even if they are·
less marked with the attributes of the marvellous.
In every region of space, from the infinitely- dis-
tant recesses of the heavens to the " dark unfa-
thomed caves of ocean," the Almighty has erected·
monuments of miraculous grandeur, which pro-
claim the power, the wisdom, and the beneficence
of their author. The inscriptions which they bear
-the hand-writing which shines upon their walls
-appeal to the understanding and to the affec-
tions, aud demand the admiration and the gratitude
of every rational being. To remain willingly igno-
rant of these revelations of the Divine Power is a
crime next to that of rejecting the revelation of
the Divine Will. Knowledge, indeed, is at once
the handmaid and the companion of true religion.
They mutually adorn and support each other; and
beyond the immediate circle of our secular duties,
o''""' ,,Coogle
CONCLUSION, 351
they are the only objects of rational ambition.
While the calm deductions of reason regulate the
ardour of Christian zeal, the warmth of a holy
enthusiasm gives a fixed brightness to the glim-
mering lights of knowledge.
It is one of the darkest spots in the history of
man, that these noble gifts have been so seldom
combined. In the young mind alone can the two
kindred seeds be effectually sown; and among
the improvements which some of our public insti-
tutions require, we yet hope to witness a national
system of instruction, in which the volumes of
Nature and of Revelation shall be simultaneously
perused.•
D. BREWSTER.
Al.LERLY, April 24th, 1832.
THE END.
o''""' ,,Coogle
LO:-lDONt
Prloted by \VrLLIA!II Cl.ow.u,
Vuke Strert, Lambeth.
o'''""' ,,Coogle
