{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__hartley___observations_on_man.pdf","mytitle":"Observations On Man","mylang":"de"}
OBSERVATIONS ON MAN,
HIS FRAME,
HIS DUTY, AND HIS EXPECTATIONS.
IN TWO PARTS.
IIY
DAVID HARTLEY, M.D.
SIXTH EDITION,
CORRECTED AND REVISED.
LONDON :
PRINTED FOR THOMAS TEGG AND SON,
No. 73, CHEAPSIDE.
1834.
2 May, 1890.
rem the Library of
PKOF. E. 'A. GURNET"'
LONDON :
R. CLAV, PRINTER, BREAD-STREET-HILL.
PREFACE.
The Work here offered to the Public consists
of papers written at different times, but taking their
rise from the following occasion.
About eighteen years ago I was informed, that
the Rev. Mr. Gay, then living, asserted the possibility
of deducing all our intellectual pleasures and pains
from association. This put me upon considering
the power of association. Mr. Gay published his
sentiments on this matter, about the same time,
in a Dissertation on the fundamental Principle of
Virtue, prefixed to Mr. Archdeacon Law's Trans
lation of Archbishop King's Origin of Evil.
From inquiring into the power of association, I
was led to examine both its consequences, in respect
of morality and religion, and its physical cause. By
degrees many disquisitions foreign to the doctrine
a 2
PREFACE.
of association, or at least not immediately connected
with it, intermixed themselves. I have here put
together all my separate papers on these subjects,
digesting them in such order as they seemed natu
rally to suggest; and adding such things as were
necessary to make the whole appear more complete
and systematical.
I think, however, that I cannot be called a system-
maker, since I did not first form a system, and
then suit the facts to it, but was carried on by
a train of thoughts from one thing to another,
frequently without any express design, or even any
previous suspicion of the consequences that might
arise. And this was most remarkably the case, in
respect of the doctrine of necessity ; for I was not
at all aware, that it followed from that of association,
for several years after I had begun my inquiries ;
nor did I admit it at last, without the greatest
reluctance.
There are two things in these papers, which
require a particular apology. First, The imperfect
state in which they are presented to the reader.
Secondly, The great freedom which I have used in
respect to all orders of men in the conclusion of
the Second Part.
PREFACE. V
As to the first ; If the reader will be so favourable
to me as to expect nothing more than hints and
conjectures in difficult and obscure matters, and a
short detail of the principal reasons and evidences
in those that are clear, I hope he will not be
much disappointed. However, be this as it will,
I have in one part or other of these papers alleged
all that I know material, in support of my system ;
and therefore am now desirous to recommend it to
the consideration of others.
I have tried to reconcile such inconsistencies,
real or apparent, and to cut off such repetitions
and redundancies, as have arisen from my writing
the separate parts of this work at different times,
and in different situations of mind. But I have
still need of great indulgence from the reader on
these and other accounts.
As to the second thing; I can truly say, that
my free and unreserved manner of speaking has
flowed from the sincerity and earnestness of my
heart. But I will not undertake to justify all that
I have said. Some things may be too hasty and
censorious ; or, however, be unbecoming my place
and station. I heartily wish, that I could have
observed the true medium. For, want of candour
vi PREFACE.
is not less an offence against the Gospel of Christ,
than false shame, and want of courage in his
cause.
Some persons may perhaps think, that I ought
not to have delivered my opinions so freely and
openly, concerning the necessity of human actions,
and the ultimate happiness of all mankind ; but
have left the reader to deduce these consequences,
or not, as should appear most reasonable to him.
But this would, in my opinion, have been a dis
ingenuous procedure. Besides, these tenets appear
to me not only innocent, but even highly conducive
to the promotion of piety and virtue amongst man
kind. However, that no one may misapprehend
me to his own hurt, I will here make two remarks
by way of anticipation.
First, then, I no where deny practical free-will,
or that voluntary power over our affections and
actions, by which we deliberate, suspend, and
choose, and which makes an essential part of our
ideas of virtue and vice, reward and punishment ;
but, on the contrary, establish it (if so plain a
thing will admit of being farther established) by
shewing in what manner it results from the frame
of our natures.
PREFACE. vii
Secondly, I do most firmly believe, upon the
authority of the Scriptures, that the future punish
ment of the wicked will be exceedingly great both
in degree and duration, i. e. infinite and eternal,
in that real practical sense to which alone our
conceptions extend. And were I able to urge any
thing upon a profane careless world, which might
convince them of the infinite hazard to which they
expose themselves, I would not fail to do it, as
the reader may judge even from those passages for
which I have above apologized.
December, 1748.
CONTENTS.
THE FIRST PART.
INTRODUCTION.
PAGE
Definitions 1
Distribution of the First Part 3
CHAP. I.
THE GENERAL LAWS, ACCORDING TO WHICH THE SENSATIONS AND
MOTIONS ARE PERFORMED, AND OUR IDEAS GENERATED.
The doctrines of vibrations and association proposed 4
Their mutual connexion ib.
Sect. I.
The Doctrine of Vibrations, and its Use for explaining the Sensations.
General evidences for the dependence of sensation and motion
on the brain 5
General evidences for the dependence of ideas on the brain .... 6
Instances shewing that sensations remain in the mind for a
short time after the sensible objects are removed ib.
The infinitesimal medullary particles vibratu during sensation 8
The aether ib.
X CONTENTS.
TAGE
The uniformity, continuity, softness, and active powers of the
medullary substance 10
The manner in which vibrations are communicated to the whole
medullary substance 13
Presumptions in favour of the doctrine of vibrations 16
Corollaries from this doctrine 20
' Materiality of the soul" no consequence of it 21
Phenomena of sensible pleasure and pain agreeable to the doc
trine of vibrations 22
Phenomena of sleep agreeable to the doctrines of vibrations . . 28
» Sect. II.
Ideas, their Generation and Associations, and the Agreement of the
Doctrine of Vibrations with the Phenomena of Ideas.
The generation of the ideas of sensation 36
The repetition of sensory vibrations generates a disposition to
corresponding vibratiuncles or miniature vibrations 37
The power of raising ideas by association in the simplest case. . 41
The power of raising miniature vibrations by association in
the simplest case 43
The formation of complex ideas by association 46
The formation of complex miniature vibrations by association . . 50
The complex vibrations last-mentioned may be so exalted, in
some cases, as to be no longer miniatures, but equal in
strength to sensory vibrations 51
Sect. III.
Muscular Motion, and its two Kinds, automatic and voluntary ; and
the Use of the Doctrines of Vibrations and Association,, for
explaining these respectively.
It is probable, that muscular motion is performed by the same
general'means as sensation, and the perception of ideas .... 54
Phaenomena of muscular contraction agreeable to the doctrine of
vibrations 56
Propensity of the muscles to alternate contraction and relaxation
agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations 57
The origin of motory vibrations 58
CONTENTS. xi
PAGE
, The general method of explaining the automatic motions by the
doctrine of vibrations 59
The generation and association of motory vibratiuncles 64
f The general method of explaining the voluntary and semi-
voluntary motions 65
The manner in which the endeavour to obtain pleasure, and
remove pain, is generated 71
CHAP. II.
CONTAINING THE APPLICATION OF THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
AND ASSOCIATION TO EACH OF THE SENSATIONS AND MOTIONS
IN PARTICULAR.
Sect. I.
The Sense of Feeling.
The several kinds of feeling, and the general causes of the
different degrees of exquisiteness in this sense 73
An inquiry how far the sensations of heat and cold are agreeable
to the doctrine of vibrations 75
An inquiry how far the phasnomena of wounds, burns, bruises,
lacerations, inflammations, and ulcers, are agreeable to the
doctrine of vibrations 80
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of itching and titillation are
agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations 81
An inquiry how far the sensations attending pressure and mus
cular contraction are agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations . . 82
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of numbness and paralytical
insensibilities are agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations .... 83
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of venomous bites and stings
are agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations 85
An inquiry how far the tangible qualities of bodies admit of an
explanation agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations 86
The manner in which we are enabled to judge of the seat of
impressions made on the external surface of our bodies .... 88
Xll CONTENTS.
PAGE
The manner and degree in which we are enabled to judge of
the seat of internal pains 89
The manner and degree in which the pleasures and pains of
feeling contribute, according to the doctrine of association, to
the formation of our intellectual pleasures and pains 91
The ideas generated by tangible impressions 92
The automatic motions which arise from tangible impressions 93
The manner and degree in which these automatic motions are
influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary powers 95
Sect. II.
The Sense of Taste.
The extent of the organ of taste, and the different powers
lodged in the different parts of it 95
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of tastes, and their specific
differences, are agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations 96
An inquiry how far the several sensations which affect the
stomach and bowels are agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations 99
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of hunger are agreeable to
the doctrine of vibrations 100
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of thirst are agreeable to
the doctrine of vibrations 102
An inquiry how far the changes, generally made in the taste, in
passing from infancy to old age, are agreeable to the doctrines
of vibrations and association ib.
An inquiry how far the longings of pregnant women are agree
able to the doctrines of vibrations and association 104
The manner and degree in which the pleasures and pains of
taste contribute, according to the doctrine of association, to
the formation of our intellectual pleasures and pains 1 05
The ideas generated by the several tastes 106
The automatic motions which arise from the impressions made
on the organ of taste ib.
The manner and degree in which these automatic motions are
influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary powers .' Ill
»
CONTENTS. XU1
Sect. III.
The Sense of Smell.
PAGE
The extent and powers of the organ of smell 113
An inquiry how far the general phaenomena of smell are agree
able to the doctrine of vibrations 114
An inquiry how far the specific differences of odours are agree
able to the doctrine of vibrations 115
The manner and degree in which pleasant and unpleasant odours
contribute, according to the doctrine of association, to the
formation of our intellectual pleasures and pains 116
The ideas generated by the several odours 117
The automatic motions which arise from the impressions made
on the organ of smell ib.
The manner and degree in which these automatic motions are
influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary powers 119
Sect. IV.
The Sense of Sight.
The immediate organ of sight, and its powers 120
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of colours are agreeable to
the doctrine of vibrations 121
An inquiry how far flashes of light from strokes in the eye,
dark spots, and giddiness, are agreeable to the doctrine of
vibrations 124
An inquiry how far the judgments made by sight, concerning
magnitude, distance, motion, figure, and position, are agree
able to the doctrine of association 126
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of single and double vision
are agreeable to the doctrine of association 129
The manner and degree in which agreeable and disagreeable
impressions made on the eye contribute, according to the
doctrine of association, to the formation of our intellectual
pleasures and pains 130
The ideas generated by visible impressions 131
The automatic motions which are excited by impressions made
on the eye 135
The manner and degree in which these automatic motions are
influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary powers 139
CONTENTS.
Sect. V.
The Sense of Hearing.
PAGE
The immediate organ of hearing, and the general uses of the
several parts of the external and internal ear 140
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of musical and other inar
ticulate sounds are agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations . . 141
An inquiry how far the judgments, which we make concerning
the distance and position of the sounding body, are agreeable
to the doctrine of association 143
An inquiry how far the power of distinguishing articulate sounds
depends upon association 144
The doctrine of sounds illustrates and favours that of the vibra
tions of the small medullary particles 145
The manner and degree in which agreeable and disagreeable
sounds contribute, according to the doctrine of association, to
the formation of our intellectual pleasures and pains 146
The ideas generated by audible impressions 147
The automatic motions excited by impressions made on the ear 149
The manner and degree in which these automatic motions are
influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary powers 150
Sect. VI.
The Desire of the Sexes towards each other.
An inquiry how far the desires of the sexes towards each other
are of a factitious nature, and agreeable to the theory of these
papers 150
Sect. VII.
Other Motions, automatic and voluntary, not considered in the fore
going Sections of this Chapter.
An inquiry how far the motions of the heart, ordinary and ex
traordinary, are agreeable to the foregoing theory 153
CONTENTS. XV
PAGE
An inquiry how far the action of respiration, with those of sigh
ing, coughing, &c. are agreeable to the foregoing theory. ... 156
An inquiry how far convulsive motions are agreeable to the
foregoing theory 160
An inquiry how far the actions of walking, handling, and
speaking, are agreeable to the foregoing theory 161
Sect. VIII.
The Relation which the foregoing Theory bears to the Art of Physic.
The art of physic affords many proper tests of the doctrines of
vibrations and association ; and may receive considerable
improvement from them, if they be true 166
CHAP. III.
CONTAINING A PARTICULAR APPLICATION OF THE FOREGOING THEORY
TO THE PHENOMENA OF IDEAS, OR OF UNDERSTANDING, AFFECTION,
MEMORY, AND IMAGINATION.
Sect. I.
Words, and the Ideas associated with them.
Words and phrases must excite ideas in us by association ; and
they excite ideas in us by no other means 169 ^
The manner in which ideas are associated with words 170 *
Consequences of this association of ideas with words 175
The nature of characters intended to represent objects and ideas
immediately, and without the intervention of words 182
The use of the foregoing theory fojr explaining the nature of
figurative words and phrases, and of analogy 183
The use of the foregoing theory for explaining the languages
and method of writing of the first ages of the world 187
The general nature of a philosophical language ; with short hints
concerning the methods in which one might be constructed. . 199
xvi CONTENTS.
PACE
An illustration and confirmation of the general doctrine of asso
ciation, taken from the particular associations which take
place in respect of language 201
Illustrations from musical sounds, colours, and tastes 202
Sect. II.
Propositions, and the Nature of Assent.
The nature of assent and dissent, and the causes from which
they arise 204
Rules for the ascertainment of truth, and advancement of know
ledge, drawn from the mathematical methods of considering
quantity 210
A general application of the theory of this and the foregoing
section to the several branches of science 222
Sect. III.
The Affections in general.
The origin and nature of the passions in general 231
Sect. IV.
Memory.
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of memory are agreeable to
the foregoing theory 235
Sept. V.
Imagination, Reveries, and Dreams.
An inquiry how far the phaenomena of imagination, reveries,
and dreams, are agreeable to the foregoing theory 240
CONTENTS. xvii
Sect. VI.
Imperfections in the Rational Faculty.
PAGE
An inquiry how far deviations from sound reason, and alien
ations of the mind, are agreeable to the foregoing theory. . . . 245
Sect. VII.
The Intellectual Faculties of Brutes.
An inquiry how far the inferiority of brutes to mankind, in
intellectual capacities, is agreeable to the foregoing theory . . 253
CHAP. IV.
THE SIX CLASSES OF INTELLECTUAL PLEASURES AND PAINS.
Sect. I.
The Pleasures and Pains of Imagination.
An inquiry how far the pleasures and pains of imagination are
agreeable to the foregoing theory 262
Sect. II.
The Pleasures and Pains of Ambition.
An inquiry how far the pleasures and pains of ambition are
agreeable to the foregoing theory 278
h
xviii CONTENTS.
Sect. III.
The Pleasures and Pains of Self-interest.
PAGE
An inquiry how far the pleasures and pains of self-interest are
agreeable to the foregoing theory 287
Sect. IV.
The Pleasures and Pains of Sympathy.
An inquiry how far the pleasures and pains of sympathy are
agreeable to the foregoing theory 295
Sect. V.
The Pleasures and Pains of Theopathy.
An inquiry how far the pleasures and pains of theopathy are
agreeable to the foregoing theory 305
Sect. VI.
The Pleasures and Pains of the Moral Sense.
An inquiry how far the pleasures and pains of the moral sense
are agreeable to the foregoing theory 309
Conclusion.
Containing some remarks on the mechanism of the human mind 313
CONTENTS. Xix
THE SECOND PART.
INTRODUCTION.
VAGE
Distribution of the Second Part 323
CHAP. I.
THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD AND OF NATURAL RELIGION.
Something must have existed from all eternity 325
There must be an infinite and independent Being ib.
The infinite and independent Being is endued with infinite
power and knowledge 327
God is infinitely benevolent 330
Five notions of infinite benevolence considered and compared
together 338
There is but one God 341
God is a spiritual Being ib.
God is an eternal and omnipresent Being 343
God is an immutable Being 344
God is a free Being ib.
Holiness, justice, veracity, mercy, and all other moral perfec
tions, ought to be ascribed to God in an infinite degree .... 345
God is to be considered by us not only as our Creator, but also
as our Governor, Judge, and Father 347
The foregoing evidences for the divine attributes afford a proper
foundation for natural religion 350
Natural religion receives great light and confirmation from
revealed 352
Religion pre-supposes free-will in the popular and practical
sense, *. e. it pre-supposes a voluntary power over our affec
tions and actions 355
Religion does not pre-suppose free-will in the philosophical
sense, *. e. it does not pre-suppose a power of doing different
things, the previous circumstances remaining the same .... 357
The infinite power and knowledge of God exclude free-will in
the philosophical sense 363
xx CONTENTS.
CHAP. II.
THE TRUTH OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
FAGE
The genuineness of the Scriptures proves the truth of the facts
contained in them 367
The genuineness of the Scriptures proves their divine authority 370
The truth of the principal facts contained in the Scriptures
proves their divine authority 371
Three different suppositions, which may be made concerning
the divine inspiration of the Scriptures ib.
The manner in which the Scriptures have been handed down
from age to age, proves both their genuineness and truth . . 374
The great importance of the Scriptures proves their genuineness
and truth 375
The language, style, and manner of writing used in the Scrip
tures, prove their genuineness 382
The great number of particular circumstances of time, place,
persons, &c. mentioned in the Scriptures, prove both their
genuineness and truth 383
The agreement of the Scriptures with history, natural and civil,
is a proof of their genuineness and truth 387
The agreement of the books of the Old and New Testaments
with themselves and each other, is an argument both of their
genuineness and truth 398
The unity ofdesign, which appears in the dispensations recorded
in the Scriptures, is an argument not only of their truth and
genuineness, but also of their divine authority 401
Divine communications, miracles, and prophecies, are agreeable
to natural religion, and seem even necessary in the infancy
of the world 407
The objections made against the miracles recorded in the Scrip
tures, from their being contrary to the course of nature, is of
little or no force 410
The historical evidences for the genuineness, truth, and divine
authority of the Scriptures, do not grow less from age to age,
but rather increase 415
The prophecies delivered in the Scriptures prove their divine
authority 416
The obscurity of the prophecies does not invalidate this proof 420
CONTENTS.
PAGE
The double uses and applications of the types and prophecies
are no objection to the evidences deducible from them, but
rather a confirmation of these evidences 422
The application of the types and prophecies of the Old Testa
ment, by the writers of the New, does not weaken the
authority of these writers, but rather confirms it 423
The moral characters of Christ, the prophets, and apostles, prove
the truth and divine authority of the Scriptures- 426
The excellence of the doctrines contained in the Scriptures is
an evidence of their divine authority 429
The many advantages which have accrued to the world from
the Patriarchal, Judaical, and Christian revelations, prove
the divine authority of the Scriptures 431
The wonderful nature and superior excellence, of the attempt
made by Christ and his apostles, are evidences of their divine
authority 433
The manner in which the love of God, and of our neighbour, is
taught and inculcated in the Scriptures, is an evidence of
their divine authority ib.
The doctrine of the necessary subserviency of pain to pleasure,
unfolded in the Scriptures, is an evidence of their divine
authority 434
The mutual instrumentality of beings to each other's happiness
and misery, unfolded in the Scriptures, is an argument of
their divine authority 435
The divine authority of the Scriptures may be inferred from the
superior wisdom of the Jewish laws, considered in a political
light, and from the exquisite workmanship shewn in the
tabernacle and temple 43C
The want of universality in the publication of revealed religion,
is no objection to it ; but, on the contrary, the time and
manner in which the Scriptures were written, and delivered
to the world, are arguments for their divine authority 437
The exclusion of all great degrees of enthusiasm and imposture
from the characters of Christ, the prophets and apostles,
proves their divine authority 439
The reception which Christ, his forerunners and followers, with
their doctrines, have met with in all ages, is an argument of
their divine authority 440
The reception which false religions have met with in the world,
are arguments of the truth of the Christian 441
xxii CONTENTS.
CHAP. III.
THE RULE OF LIFE.
Sect. I.
The Rule of Life, as deducible from the Practice and Opinions
of Mankind.
PAGE
The practice of mankind affords some direction in respect of
the rule of life 445
The opinions of mankind afford a better direction in respect of
the rule of life, than their practice 446
The rule of life drawn from the practice and opinions of man
kind is favourable to the cause of virtue 447
This rule corrects and improves itself perpetually 452
Sect. II.
The Regard due to the Pleasures and Pains of Sensation, in
forming the Rule of Life.
The pleasures of sensation ought not to be made a primary
pursuit 454
The pursuit of sensible pleasure ought to be regulated by the
precepts of piety, benevolence, and the moral sense 457
Practical rules concerning diet 459
Practical rules concerning the commerce between the sexes . . 465
Practical rules concerning the hardships, pains, and uneasinesses,
which occur in the daily intercourses of life 471
Sect. III.
The Regard due to the Pleasures and Pains of Imagination in
forming the Rule of Life.
The pleasures of imagination ought not to be made a primary
pursuit 473
CONTENTS. xxiii
PAOE
The pursuit of the pleasures of imagination ought to be regu
lated by the precepts of benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense 475
Practical rules concerning the elegancies and amusements of life 477
Practical rules concerning mirth, wit, and humour 479
Practical rules concerning the polite arts, and particularly of
painting, music, and poetry 480
Practical rules concerning the pursuit of science 481
Practical rules concerning the ignorance, difficulties, and per
plexities in which we find ourselves involved 482
Sect. IV.
The Regard due to the Pleasures of Honour, and the Pains of
Shame, in forming the Rule of Life.
The pleasures of honour ought not to be made a primary
pursuit 483
The pleasures of honour may be obtained in their greatest
degree, and highest perfection, by paying a strict regard to
the precepts of benevolence, piety, and the moral sense .... 485
Practical observations on the nature of humility, and the
methods of attaining it 487
Sect. V.
The Regard due to the Pleasures and Pains of Self-interest in
forming the Rule of Life.
The pleasures of self-interest ought not to be made a primary
pursuit 491
A strict regard to the precepts of benevolence, piety, and the
moral sense, favours even gross self-interest, and is the only
method by which the refined and rational can be secured . . 496
Practical observations on self-interest and self-annihilation. . . . 497
xxiv CONTENTS.
Sect. VI.
The Regard due to the Pleasures and Pains of Sympathy, in
forming the Rule of Life.
PAGE
The pleasures of sympathy improve those of sensation, imagina
tion, ambition, and self-interest; and unite with those of
theopathy and the moral sense : they are self-consistent, and
admit of an unlimited extent ; and consequently they may
be our primary pursuit 498
Practical rules for augmenting the benevolent affections, and
suppressing the malevolent ones 503
Practical rules for the conduct of men towards each other in
society 504
The duties arising from the principal relations of life 509
Sect. VII.
The Regard due to the Pleasures and Pains of Theopathy, in
forming the Rule of Life.
The love of God regulates, improves, and perfects all the other
parts of our nature, and affords a pleasure superior, in kind
and degree, to all the rest ; and therefore is our primary
pursuit and ultimate end 514
Practical rules concerning the theopathetic affections, faith, fear,
gratitude, hope, trust, resignation, and love 518
Practical rules concerning the manner of expressing the theo
pathetic affections by prayer, and other religious exercises . . 528
Sect. VIII.
The Regard due to the Pleasures and Pains of the Moral Sense,
in forming the Rule of Life.
The moral sense ought to be made the immediate guide of our
actions on all sudden emergencies 531
CONTENTS. XXV
PAGE
Practical rules for the regulation and improvement of the moral
sense 532
General corollaries to the seven last Sections 533
Sect. IX.
The Rule ofFaith.
An inquiry how far faith in natural and revealed religion, also
in the particular tenets of christian churches, is necessary
for the purification and perfection of our natures 537
CHAP. IV.
THE EXPECTATIONS OF MANKIND, HERE AND HEREAFTER, IN CON
SEQUENCE OP THEIR OBSERVANCE OR VIOLATION OF THE RULE OF
LIFE.
Sect. I.
The Expectation of Individuals in the present Life.
It is probable, that most or all men receive more happiness than
misery in their passage through the present life 545
The balance cannot be much in favour even of the most happy,
during the present life 546
Virtue has always the fairest prospect even in this life, and vice
is always exposed to the greatest hazards -547
And yet it does not seem at all probable, that happiness is
exactly proportioned to virtue in the present life 548
c
xxvi CONTENTS.
Sect. II.
The Expectation of Bodies Politic, the Jews in particular, and
the World in general, during the present State of the Earth.
PAGE
It is probable, that all the present civil governments will be
overturned 549
It is probable, that the present forms of church government will
be dissolved 5.51
It is probable, that the Jews will be restored to Palestine .... 553
The Christian religion will be preached to, and received by, all
nations 555
It is not probable that there will be any pure or complete hap
piness before the destruction of this world by fire 557
Sect. III.
A future State after the Expiration of this Life.
It is probable, from the mere light of nature, that there will be
a future state 558
The Christian revelation gives us an absolute assurance of a
future state '. 565
The rewards and punishments of a future life will far exceed the
happiness and misery of this, both in degree and duration . . 566
It is probable, that the future happiness of the good will be of
a spiritual nature ; but the future misery of the wicked may
be both corporeal and mental 568
It seems probable, that the soul may remain in a state of
inactivity, though perhaps not of insensibility, from death to
the resurrection 571
Sect. IV.
The Terms of Salvation.
It follows from the foregoing theory of our intellectual pleasures
and pains, as well as from other ways of considering them,
that the bulk of mankind are not qualified for pure, unmixed
happiness 572
CONTENtfs. XXvii
PAGE
It follows from the declarations of the Scriptures, that the bulk
of mankind are not qualified for the mansions of the blessed 573
A practical application of this doctrine to the real circumstances
of mankind 574
Sect. V.
Thefinal Happiness,of all Mankind in some distantfuture State.
It is probable from reason, that all mankind will be made
happy ultimately 581
It is probable from the Scriptures, that all mankind will be
made happy ultimately 585
Conclusion 593
OBSERVATIONS ON MAN,
PART I.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE FRAME OF THE HUMAN BODY AND MIND,
AND ON THEIR MUTUAL CONNEXIONS AND INFLUENCES.
INTRODUCTION.
MAN consists of two parts, body and mind.
The first is subjected to our senses and inquiries, in the same
manner as the other parts of the external material world.
The last is that substance, agent, principle, &c. to which we
refer the sensations, ideas, pleasures, pains, and voluntary motions.
Sensations are those internal feelings of the mind, which arise
from the impressions made by external objects upon the several
parts of our bodies.
All our other internal feelings may be called ideas. Some
of these appear to spring up in the mind of themselves, some' are
suggested by words, others arise in other ways. Many writers
comprehend sensations under ideas ; but I every where use these
words in the senses here ascribed to them.
The ideas which resemble sensations, are called ideas of sen
sation : all the rest may therefore be called intellectual ideas.
It will appear in the course of these observations, that the
ideas of sensation are the elements of which all the rest are
compounded. Hence ideas of sensation may be termed simple,
intellectual ones complex.
The pleasures and pains are comprehended under the sensations,
and ideas, as these are explained above. For all our pleasures
and pains are internal feelings, and conversely, all our internal
feelings seem to be attended with some degree either of pleasure
or pain. However, I shall, for the most part, give the names
of pleasure and pain only to such degrees as are considerable ;
B
2 INTRODUCTION.
referring all low evanescent ones to the head of mere sensations
and ideas.
The pleasures and pains may be ranged under seven general
classes ; viz.
1 . Sensation ;
2. Imagination ;
3. Ambition ;
4. Self-interest;
5. Sympathy;
6. Theopathy; and,
7. The Moral Sense ; according as they arise from,
1 . The impressions made on the external senses ;
2. Natural or artificial beauty or deformity ;
3. The opinions of others concerning us ;
4. Our possession or want of the means of happiness, and
security from, or subjection to, the hazards of misery ;
5. The pleasures and pains of our fellow-creatures ;
6. The affections excited in us by the contemplation of the
Deity; or
7. Moral beauty and deformity.
The human mind may also be considered as endued with the
faculties of memory, imagination, or fancy, understanding, affec
tion, and will.
Memory is that faculty by which traces of sensations and ideas
recur, or are recalled, in the same order and proportion, accu
rately or nearly, as they were once actually presented.
When ideas, and trains of ideas, occur, or are called up in a
vivid manner, and without regard to the order of former actual
impressions and perceptions, this is said to be done by the power
of imagination or fancy.
The understanding is that faculty by which we contemplate
mere sensations and ideas, pursue truth, and assent to, or dissent
from, propositions.
The affections have the pleasures and pains for their objects ;
as the understanding has the mere sensations and ideas. By the
affections we are excited to pursue happiness, and all its means,
and to fly from misery, and all its apparent causes.
The will is that state of mind which is immediately previous
to, and causes, those express acts of memory, fancy, and bodily
motion, which are termed voluntary.
The motions of the body are of two kinds, automatic and
voluntary. The automatic motions are those which arise from
the mechanism of the body in an evident manner. They are
called automatic, from their resemblance to the motions of auto
mata, or machines, whose principle of motion is within them
selves. Of this kind are the motions of the heart, and peristaltic
motion of the bowels. The voluntary motions are those which
arise from ideas and affections, and which therefore are referred
to the mind ; the immediately preceding state of the mind, or of
INTRODUCTION. 3
the ideas and affections, being termed will, as noted in the last
article. Such are the actions of walking, handling, speaking, &c.
when attended to, and performed with an express design.
This may serve as a short account of the chief subjects con
sidered in the first part of these observations. These subjects
are so much involved in each other, that it is difficult, or even
impossible, to begin any where upon clear ground, or so as to
proceed entirely from the data to the quccsita, from things known
to such as are unknown. I will endeavour it as much as I can,
and for that purpose shall observe the following order.
First, I shall lay down the general laws, according to which
the sensations and motions are performed, and our ideas gene
rated.
Secondly, I shall consider each of the sensations and motions
in particular, and inquire how far the phaenomena of each illus
trate, and are illustrated by, the foregoing general laws.
Thirdly, I shall proceed in like manner to the particular phae-
nomena of ideas, or of understanding, affection, memory, and
imagination ; applying to them what has been before delivered.
Lastly, I shall endeavour to give a particular history and
analysis of the six classes of intellectual pleasures and pains ; viz.
those of imagination, ambition, self-interest, sympathy, theopathy,
and the moral sense.
b 2
THE
DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
AND
ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL.
CHAP. I.
THE GENERAL LAWS ACCORDING TO WHICH THE SENSATIONS AND
MOTIONS ARE PERFORMED, AND OUR IDEAS GENERATED.
My chief design in the following chapter is briefly to explain,
establish, and apply the doctrines of vibrations and association.
The first of these doctrines is taken from the hints concerning
the performance of sensation and motion, which Sir Isaac Newton
has given at the end of his J'rincipia, and in the Questions an
nexed to his Optics ; the last, from what Mr. Locke, and other
ingenious persons since his time, have delivered concerning the
influence of association over our opinions and affections, and its
use in explaining those things in an accurate and precise way,
which are commonly referred to the power of habit and custom,
in a general and indeterminate one. >
The doctrine of vibrations may appear at first sight to have no
connexion with that of association ; however, if these doctrines
be found in fact to contain the laws of the bodily and mental
powers respectively, they must be related to each other, since
the body and mind are. One may expect, that vibrations should
infer association as their effect, and association point to vibrations
as its cause. I will endeavour, in the present chapter, to trace
out this mutual relation.
The proper method of philosophizing seems to be, to discover
and establish the general laws of action, affecting the subject
under consideration, from certain select, well-defined, and well-
attested phaenomena, and then to explain and predict the other
THE DOCTRINE OF VIBRATIONS. 5
phenomena by these laws. This is the method of analysis and
synthesis recommended and followed by Sir Isaac Newton.
I shall not be able to execute, with any accuracy, what the
reader might expect of this kind, in respect of the doctrines of
vibrations and association, and their general laws, on account
of the great intricacy, extensiveness, and novelty of the subject.
However, I will attempt a sketch in the best manner I can, for
the service of future inquirers. ^
SECT. I.
THE DOCTRINE OF VIBRATIONS, AND ITS USE FOR EXPLAINING
THE SENSATIONS.
Prjbp. I.— The white medullary Substance of the Brain, spinal
Marrow, and the Nerves proceedingfrom them, is the immediate
Instrument of Sensation and Motion.
Under the word brain, in these observations, I comprehend
all that lies within the cavity of the skull, i. e. the cerebrum, or
brain properly so called, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata.
This proposition seems to be sufficiently proved in the writings
of physicians and anatomists ; from the structure and functions
of the several organs of the human body ; from experiments on
living animals ; from the symptoms of diseases, and from dis
sections of morbid bodies. Sensibility, and the power of motion,
seem to be conveyed to all the parts, in their natural state, from
the brain and spinal marrow, along the nerves. These arise from
the medullary, not the cortical part, every where, and are them
selves of a white medullary substance. IWhen the nerves of any
part are cut, tied, or compressed in any considerable degree, the
functions of that part are either entirely destroyed, or much
impaired. When the spinal marrow is compressed by a dislo
cation of the vertebra of the back, all the parts, whose nerves
arise below the place of dislocation, become paralytic. When any
considerable injury is done to the medullary substance of the
brain, sensation, voluntary motion, memory, and intellect, are
either entirely lost, or much impaired ; and if the injury be very
great, this extends immediately to the vital motions also, viz. to
those of the heart, and organs of respiration, so as to occasion
death. But this does not hold equally in respect of the cortical
substance of the brain ; perhaps not at all, unless as far as
injuries done to it extend themselves to the medullary substance.
In dissections after apoplexies, palsies, epilepsies, and other
6 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
distempers affecting>the sensations and motions, it is usual to
find some great disorder in the brain, from preternatural tumours,
from blood, matter, or serum, lying upon the brain, or in its
ventricles, &c. This may suffice as general evidence for the
present. The particular reasons of some of these phaenomena,
with more definite evidences, will offer themselves in the course
of these observations.
Prop. II.—The white medullary Substance of the Brain is also
the immediate Instrument, by which Ideas are presented to the
Mind : or, in other words, whatever Changes are made in this
Substance, corresponding Changes are made in our Ideas ; and
vice versa.
The evidence for this proposition is also to be taken from the
writings of physicians and anatomists ; but especially from those
parts of these writings which treat of the faculties of memory,
attention, imagination, &c. and of mental disorders. It is suffi
ciently manifest from hence, that the perfection of our mental
faculties depends upon the perfection of this substance ; that all
injuries done to it affect the trains of ideas proportionably ; and
that these cannot be restored to their natural course till such
injuries be repaired. Poisons, spirituous liquors, opiates, fevers,
blows upon the head, &c. all plainly affect the mind, by first
disordering the medullary substance. And evacuations, , rest,
medicines, time, &c. as plainly restore the mind to its former
state, by reversing the foregoing steps. But there will be more
and more definite evidence offered in the course of these obser
vations.
Prop. IIT.—The Sensations remain in the Mindfor a short time
after the sensible Objects are removed.
This is very evident in the sensations impressed on the eye.
Thus, to use Sir Isaac Newton's words, " If a burning coal be
nimbly moved round in a circle, with gyrations continually re
peated, the whole circle will appear like fire ; the reason of which
is, that the sensation of the coal, in the several places of that
circle, remains impressed on the sensorium until the coal return
again to the same place. And so in a quick consecution of the
colours," (viz. red, yellow, green, blue, and purple, mentioned
in the experiment, whence this passage is taken,) " the impression
of every colour remains on the sensorium until a revolution of
all the colours be completed, and that first colour return again.
The impressions therefore of all the successive colours are at once
in the sensorium—and beget a sensation of white." Opt. b. I.
p. 2. Experiment 10.
Thus also, when a person has had a candle, a window, or any
other lucid and well-defined object, before his eyes for a con
AMD ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 7
siderable time, he may perceive a very clear and precise image
thereof to be left in the ?ensorium, fancy, or mind (for these I
consider as equivalent expressions in our entrance upon these
disquisitions,) for some time after he has closed his eyes. At
least this will happen frequently to persons who are attentive to
these things in a gentle way ; for, as this appearance escapes the
notice of those who are entirely inattentive, so too earnest a
desire and attention prevents it, by introducing another state of
mind or fancy.
To these may be referred the appearance mentioned by Sir
Isaac Newton, Opt. Qu. 16. viz. " When a man in the dark
presses either corner of his eye with his finger, and turns his eye
away from his finger, he will see a circle of colours like those in
the feather of a peacock's tail. And this appearance continues
about a second of time after the eye and finger have remained
quiet." The sensation continues therefore in the mind about a
second of time after its cause ceases to act.
The same continuance of the sensations is also evident in the
ear. For the sounds which we hear are reflected by the neigh
bouring bodies, and therefore consist of a variety of sounds,
succeeding each other at different distances of time, according to
the distances of the several reflecting bodies ; which yet causes
no confusion or apparent complexity of sound, unless the distance
of the reflecting bodies be very considerable, as in spacious
buildings. Much less are we able to distinguish the successive
pulses of the air, even in the gravest sounds.
As to the senses of taste and smell, there seems to be no clear
direct evidence for the continuance of their sensations after the
proper objects are removed. But analogy would incline one to
believe, that "they must resemble the senses of sight and hearing
in this particular, though the continuance cannot be perceived
distinctly, on account of the shortness of it, or other circum
stances. For the sensations must be supposed to bear such an
analogy to each other, and so to depend in common upon the
brain, that all evidences for the continuance of sensations in any
one sense, will extend themselves to the rest. Thus all the
senses may be considered as so many kinds of feeling ; the taste
is nearly allied to the feeling, the smell to the taste, and the sight
and hearing to each other. All which analogies will offer them
selves to view when we come to examine each of these senses in
particular.
In the sense of feeling, the continuance of heat, after the
heating body is removed, and that of the smart of a wound, after
the instant of infliction, seem to be of the same kind with the
appearances taken notice of in the eye and ear.
But the greatest part of the sensations of this sense resemble
those of taste and smell, and vanish to appearance as soon as
the objects are removed.
8 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
Prop. IV.—External Objects impressed upon the Senses occasion,
first in the Nerves on which they are impressed, and then in the
Brain, Vibrations ofthe small, and as one may say, infinitesimal,
medullary Particles.
These vibrations are motions backwards and forwards of the
small particles ; of the same kind with the oscillations of pen
dulums, and the tremblings of the particles of sounding bodies.
They must be conceived to be exceedingly short and small, so as
not to have the least efficacy to disturb or move the whole
bodies of the nerves or brain. For that the nerves themselves
should vibrate like musical strings, is highly absurd ; nor was it
ever asserted by Sir Isaac Newton, or any of those who have
embraced his notion of the performance of sensation and motion,
by means of vibrations.
In like manner we are to suppose the particles which vibrate,
to be of the inferior orders, and not those biggest particles, on
which the operations in chemistry, and the colours of natural
bodies, depend, according to the opinion of Sir Isaac Newton.
Hence, in the proposition, I term the medullary particles, which
vibrate, infinitesimal.
Now that external objects impress vibratory motions upon the
medullary substance of the nerves and brain (which is the imme
diate instrument of sensation, according to the first proposition)
appears from the continuance of the sensations mentioned in the
third; since no motion, besides a vibratory one, can reside in
any part for the least moment of time. External objects, being
corporeal, can act upon the nerves and brain, which are also cor
poreal, by nothing but impressing motion on them. A vibrating
motion may continue for a short time in the small medullary
particles of the nerves and brain, without disturbing them, and
after a short time would cease; and so would correspond to the
above-mentioned short continuance of the sensations; and there
seems to be no other species ofmotion that can correspond thereto.
Cor. As this proposition is deduced from the foregoing, so
if it could be established upon independent principles, (of which
I shall treat under the next,) the foregoing might be deduced
from it. And on this supposition there would be an argument
for the continuance of the sensations, after the removal of their
objects ; which would extend to the senses of feeling, taste, and
smell, in the same manner as to those of sight and hearing.
Prop. V.— The Vibrations mentioned in the last Proposition are
excited, propagated, and kept up, partly by the JEther, i. e. by
a very subtle and elastic fluid, and partly by the Uniformity,
Continuity, Softness, and active powers of the medullary Sub
stance of the Brain, Spinal Marrow, and Nerves.
This proposition is chiefly an evidence and explanation of
the foregoing; and accordingly might have been included in it.
«
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. !)
However, as it is of great importance in the present subject, I
thought it best to give it a distinct place and consideration.
Before I enter upon the proof of it, it will be proper to premise
something by way of explanation, concerning the aether, and the
qualities of the medullary substance just mentioned.
Sir Isaac Newton supposes, that a very subtle and elastic fluid,
which he calls ather, for the sake of treating upon it commo-
diously under an appropriated name, is diffused through the pores
of gross bodies, as well as through the open spaces that are void
of gross matter. He supposes likewise, that it is rarer in the
pores of bodies than in open spaces, and even rarer in small pores
and dense bodies, than in large pores and rare bodies ; and also
that its density increases in receding from gross matter ; so, for
instance, as to be greater at the hundredth of an inch from the
surface of any body than at its surface ; and so on. To the action
of this aether he ascribes the attractions of gravitation and cohe
sion, the attractions and repulsions of electrical bodies, the mutual
influences of bodies and light upon each other, the effects and
communication of heat, and the performance of animal sensation
and motion. My business in these observations is only with the
last; but the reader will do well to consult what Sir Isaac Newton
has himself advanced concerning the existence of this aether, and
the properties and powers which he has ascribed to it in the last
paragraph of his Principia, the Questions annexed to his Optics,
and a Letter from him to Mr. Boyle, lately published in Mr.
Boyle's Life. As to myself, I am not satisfied that I understand
him perfectly on this subject. I will hint a few tilings partly
from him, partly from my own reflections, concerning the exist
ence and properties of this aether.
Since a thermometer kept in vacuo varies with the heat and
cold of the room in which it is placed, as much as another sur
rounded by air ; and since the small parts of hot bodies probably
vibrate to and fro, and by thus vibrating keep up the heat for a
certain time ; one may conjecture that a subtle medium remains
after the air is exhausted, and that heat is communicated to the
thermometer suspended in vacuo, by the vibrating motions of this
medium. See Opt. Qu. 18.
The greater density of the aether at a distance from bodies than
at their surface, may be conjectured from the various phaenomena
solved by this supposition ; which phaenomena may also be alleged
as probable evidences of the existence of the aether. See Opt.
Qu. and the Letter to Mr. Boyle.
The great subtlety and elasticity of the aether may be inferred
from the motions of the planets and quick propagation of light, if
we first suppose its existence, and concurrence in the propagation
of light, and efficacy in causing gravity. And from its great
elasticity we may infer, that it is extremely susceptible of vibrations
and pulses, in the same manner as common air. See Opt. Qu.
Since the gross bodies that lie upon the surface of the earth
10 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
emit air-particles, constituting a thin, elastic fluid, of great
efficacy in performing the ordinary operations of nature, it seems
not unnatural to expect, that the small particles of bodies should
emit a proportionally attenuated air; *. e. an aether which may
likewise have a great share in the subtle actions of the small par
ticles of bodies over each other. The emission of odoriferous
particles, light, magnetical and electrical effluvia, may also be
some presumption in favour of the existence of the aether. More
over, it is reasonable to expect that it should have a repulsive
force in respect of the bodies which emit it; and for the same
reasons its particles may repel each other. It may therefore be
elastic, compressible, and apt to receive vibrations from the last
cause ; and from the first may be rarer within the pores of bodies
than in large open spaces, and grow denser as the distance from
gross matter increases. Our air is indeed denser near the earth
than in the higher regions ; but this is owing to its gravity pre
vailing against its expansive force. If we suppose the gravity of
the aether to be very small, and its elasticity or expansive and
repulsive force very great, both which must be supposed, if we
admit it at all in the manner proposed by Sir Isaac Newton, its
density may increase in receding from gross matter, and be much
less in the pores of bodies than in open spaces void of gross
matter. Thus we may suppose even the air, which remains in
the large pores of such bodies as repel its particles, to be rarer
than the common external air.
Lastly, let us suppose the existence of the aether, with these
its properties, to be destitute of all direct evidence, still if it serve
to explain and account for a great variety of phaenomena, it will
have an indirect evidence in its favour by these means. [Thus we
admit the key of a cypher to be a true one, when it explains the
cypher completely ;j and the decypherer judges himself to ap
proach to the true' key, in proportion as he advances in the
explanation of the cypher ; and this without any direct evidence
at all. And as the false and imperfect keys, which turn up to
the decypherer in his researches, prepare the way for the disco
very of the true and complete one, so any hypothesis that has so
much plausibility as to explain a considerable number of facts,
helps us to digest these facts in proper order, to bring new ones
to light, and to make experimenta cruris for the sake of future
inquirers. The rule of false affords an obvious and strong instance
of the possibility of being led, with precision and certainty, to a
true conclusion from a false position ; and it is of the very essence
of algebra to proceed in the way of supposition.
We come next to consider the uniformity and continuity of the
white medullary substance of the brain, spinal marrow, and
nerves. Now these are evident to the eye, as far as that can be
a judge of them. The white medullary substance appears to be
every where uniform and similar to itself throughout the whole
brain, spinal marrow, and nerves; and though the cortical
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 11
substance be mixed with the medullary in the brain, and spinal
marrow, and perhaps in the ganglions and plexuses, yet it does
not appear that the communication of any one part of the me
dullary substance with every other, is cut off any where by the
intervention of the cortical. There is no part of the medullary
substance separated from the rest, but all make one continuous
white body; so that if we suppose vibrations apt to run freely
along this body from its uniformity, they must pervade the whole,
in whatever part they are first excited, from its continuity.
The excessive minuteness of the vessels of which the medullary
substance consists, may also be conceived as inferring its uni
formity and continuity. These vessels are, by all anatomists and
physiologists, supposed to arise from those of the cortical sub
stance, this being agreeable to the analogy of the other parts of
the body. And it follows from the same analogy, that they must
be smaller than those vessels from which they arise. But the
finer orders of the vessels of the cortical substance are far too
minute to admit of the most subtle injections, the best injectors
having never penetrated farther than the grosser orders of vessels
in the cortical substance. We may therefore well suppose, that
the medullary substance consists of a texture of vessels so small
and regular, as that it may have no vacuity or interval in it,
sufficient to interrupt or disturb the vibrations of the aether,
and concomitant ones of the small medullary particles, pro
pagated through this substance in the manner to be described
below.
The softness of the medullary substance is, in like manner,
evident to the senses, and the natural consequence of the extreme
smallness of the compounding vessels, and fluids circulating
through them.
If we admit the foregoing account of the uniform continuous
texture of the medullary substance, it will follow that the nerves
are rather solid capillaments, according to Sir Isaac Newton,
than small tubuli, according to Boerhaave. And the same con
clusion arises from admitting the doctrine of vibrations. The
vibrations hereafter to be described, may more easily be conceived
to be propagated along solid capillaments, so uniform in their
texture as to be pellucid when singly taken, than along hollow
tubuli. For the same reasons, the doctrine of vibrations will
scarce permit us to suppose the brain to be a gland properly so
called ; since the deformity of texture required in a gland
appears inconsistent with the free propagation of vibrations.
Neither can we conclude the brain to be a gland, from the great
quantity of blood sent to it by the heart. It is probable, indeed,
that this is required on account of the important functions of
accretion, nutrition, sensation, and motion, which are plainly
performed by the brain. But then these functions admit of as
easy an explanation on the hypothesis here proposed, as on that
of a glandular secretion, called nervous fluid, animal spirits, &c.
12 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
In the mean time, I cannot but acknowledge many, or even most,
things in the Boerhaavian doctrine concerning the structure and
functions of the brain, to be beautiful, just, and useful. And it
may even be that the doctrine of a glandular secretion, properly
qualified, is not inconsistent with that of vibrations.
Sir Isaac Newton supposes the nerves, when singly taken, to
be pellucid, because otherwise they could not be sufficiently
uniform for the purpose of transmitting vibrations freely to and
from the brain ; the opacity of any body being, according to
him, an argument that its pores are so large and irregular as to
disturb and interrupt the vibrations of the aether. For the same
reasons we must suppose the fibrils of the medullary substance
of the brain to be pellucid, when singly taken. And this con
sideration may incline one to conjecture, that in palsies, the
infinitesimal vessels of the fibrils of the brain, and capillaments of
the nerves, are so obstructed, as to render these fibrils and capil
laments white and opake, in the same manner as the hair in old
age, or the cornea in an albugo.
Since the pia mater, with its blood-vessels, enters the inter
stices of the several folds of the brain, one may suspect, that it
penetrates not only the cortical substance, but also the medul
lary, along with the several descending orders of vessels, and
consequently that it divides and subdivides the medullary sub
stance into various greater and lesser regions. One may affirm,
at least, that such a distribution of the pia mater would be
greatly analogous to that of the cellular membrane, through the
system of muscles, their separate portions, fibres, and fibrils.
But then we may reasonably suppose the pia muter to be so
attenuated in these its processes, as that the medullary substance
may still remain sufficiently uniform for the free propagation of
vibrations. Or, if there be some little impediment and confine
ment in certain regions, on account of some exceedingly small
discontinuity, arising from this intervention of the pia mater
between certain regions, it may, as it seems to me, suit this
theory rather better than an absolute and perfect continuity, as
before supposed. It is reasonable also to think, that the nerves
of different parts have innumerable communications with each
other in the brain, in the ganglions, (which are, as it were, little
brains, according to the ojiinion of Winslow,) and even in the
plexuses ; and that many phaenomena, particularly those of the
sympathetic kind, are deducible from these communications.
But as it seems impossible to trace out these communications
anatomically, on account of the great softness of the brain, we
must content ourselves with such conjectures as the phaenomena
shall suggest, trying them by one another, and admitting for the
present those which appear most consistent upon the whole, till
farther light appears. The same, or even a greater, obscurity
attends all inquiries into the uses of the particular shape and
protuberances of the medullary substance of the brain.
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 13
We come, in the last place, to consider what active properties
may belong to the small particles of the medullary substance,
i. e. to the small particles which compose either the ultimate
vessels of this substance, or the fluid which circulates in these
ultimate vessels. The common doctrine concerning the powers
of the nervous system supposes the fluid secreted by, and circu
lating through, the medullary substance to be of a very active
nature ; and this may be, though the taste of the medullary
substance in brute animals discovers no such activity. For the
power of impressing tastes seems to reside in particles much
larger than those which we are here considering. And it is suffi
ciently obvious, that many poisons, mineral, vegetable, and
animal, have the most active properties concealed under insipid
or at least moderate savours. Now that some powers of attrac
tion or repulsion, or rather of both at different distances, reside
in the small particles of the medullary substance, can scarce be
doubted, after so many instances and evidences, as Sir Isaac
Newton has produced, of attractive and repulsive powers in the
small particles of various bodies, Opt. Qu. 31 ; meaning, as he
does, by attraction and repulsion, a mere mathematical tendency
to approach and recede, be the cause what it will, impulse,
pressure, an unknown one, or no physical cause at all, but the
immediate agency of the Deity. The smallness also of the
particles of the medullary substance may not improbably increase
their activity, in respect of their bulk, agreeably to Sir Isaac
Newton's conjecture concerning the particles of the aether. Which
may be farther inferred from the nature of these attractions and
repulsions ; for since they seem to be as some reciprocal power of
the distance, we may judge that only the nearest parts of large
particles will be eminently active, and that the more remote
ones will be an impediment to their actions ; whence small
particles, having nearly as great active powers, and much less
matter to be moved, will, upon the whole, be more active in
proportion to their bulk, than large ones. If we farther suppose
the particles of the fluids, which circulate through the ultimate
vessels of the medullary substance, to be smaller than the par
ticles which compose these vessels, then will they also be more
active. And thus we seem to approach to all that is probable
in the received doctrines concerning the nervous fluid, and the
animal spirits, supposed to be either the same or different things;
and all the arguments which Boerhaave has brought for his
hypothesis, of a glandular secretion of a very subtle active fluid
in the brain, may be accommodated to the Newtonian hypothesis
of vibrations.
Having thus endeavoured to settle our notions concerning the
aether, and establish our evidences for its existence and pro
perties, and for the uniformity, continuity, softness, and active
powers of the medullary substance ; we come, in the next place,
to inquire in what manner these may serve to explain or evince
11 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
the vibrations of the medullary particles, asserted in the foregoing
proposition.
First, then, We are to conceive, that when external objects
are impressed on the sensory nerves, they excite vibrations in
the aether residing in the pores of these nerves, by means of the
mutual actions interceding between the objects, nerves, and
aether. For there seem to be mutual actions of all the varieties
between these three, in all the senses, though of a different
nature in different senses. Thus it seems that light affects both
the optic nerve and the aether ; and also, that the affections of
the aether are communicated to the optic nerve, and vice versa.
And the same may be observed of frictions of the skin, tastes,
smells, and sounds. The impulse, attraction, or whatever else
be the action of the object, affects both the nerves and the
aether ; these affect each other, and even the object or impression
itself, in most or all cases, So as to alter or modify it. And the
result of these actions, upon the whole, may be supposed such a
compression or increase of density in the aether, as must agi
tate, its particles with vibrations analogous to those which
are excited in the air by the discharge of guns, by thunder
claps, or by any other method of causing a sudden and violent
compression in it.
Secondly, We are to conceive, that the vibrations thus excited
in the aether will agitate the small particles of the medullary
substance of the sensory nerves with synchronous vibrations, in
the same manner as the vibrations of the air in sounds agitate
many regular bodies with corresponding vibrations or tremblings.
And here the uniformity, softness, and active powers of the
medullary substance, must be considered as previous requisites
and assistances. A want of uniformity in the medullary sub
stance would argue a like want of uniformity in the aether
contained within it. The hardness of it, if it extended to the
particles, would cause an ineptitude to vibratory motions in the
particles of these particles, i.e. in the infinitesimal particles con
sidered in this and the foregoing proposition. And a want of
active powers in these particles would suffer the excited motions
to die away prematurely.
One may conjecture, indeed, that the rays of light excite
vibrations in the small particles of the optic nerve, by a direct
and immediate action. For it seems probable, from the alternate
fits of easy transmission and reflexion, that the rays of light are
themselves agitated by very subtle vibrations, and consequently
that they must communicate these directly and immediately to
the particles of the optic nerves. And it may be also, that sapid
and odoriferous particles are agitated with specific vibrations,
and that they communicate these directly and immediately to
the small particles of the gustatory and olfactory nerves respec
tively, as well as to the interjacent aether. Upon this supposi
tion, the vibrations of the aether must be conceived as regulating
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 15
and supporting the vibrations of the particles, not as exciting
them originally.
Thirdly, The vibrations thus excited in the aether, and par
ticles of the sensory nerves, will be propagated along the course
of these nerves up to the brain. For the aether residing in the
medullary substance, being of an uniform density on account
of the smallness of the pores of the medullary substance, and
uniformity of its texture, before taken notice of, will suffer
the excited vibrations to run freely through it. And the same
uniformity, together with the continuity, softness, and active
powers of the medullary substance, will farther contribute to the
free propagation of the vibrations ; since, on these accounts, it
follows, that the particles, which were last agitated, may easily
communicate their agitations or vibrations to the similarly
posited and equal contiguous ones, without interruption, and
almost without any diminution of force. This free propagation
of vibrations along the course of the nerves may be illustrated
and confirmed by the like free propagation of sounds along the
surface of water, which has sometimes been observed in still,
calm nights.
Fourthly, The vibrations here described are confined to the
medullary substance, or at least are only propagated feebly
and imperfectly into the neighbouring parts, on account of the
heterogeneity and geater hardness of the neighbouring parts.
The first will make the aether of different densities, and in some
cases there may be almost an interruption or discontinuity of it ;
and the last will indispose the particles to receive and commu
nicate vibrations ; and we may suppose from both together,
agreeably to what has been already remarked, that only small
vibrations, and such irregular ones as oppose each other, will
just begin to take place in the immediately contiguous parts,
and there cease without proceeding farther. It is somewhat
analogous to this in sounds, that they are much sooner lost in
passing over rough surfaces than smooth ones ; and particularly,
that they receive a much greater diminution from the irregular
surface of the earth, than from that of still water. However, a
particular exception is here to be made in respect of the fibres
of the muscles and membranes, into which the vibrations of the
aether and medullary particles seem to be propagated with great
freedom and strength, as will be seen hereafter. Which may
perhaps be some argument that muscular fibres are, according to
Boerhaave's opinion, mere productions of the ultimate nerves.
Fifthly, As soon as the vibrations enter the brain, they begin
to be propagated freely every way over the whole medullary
substance ; being diminished in strength, in proportion to the
quantity of matter agitated, just as in sounds, i. e. as it were in
a reciprocal duplicate ratio of the distance from the place where
the sensory nerve affected by the vibrations enters the brain.
Or, if we suppose the pia mater to make some small discontinuity
IG THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
in the medullary substance by its processes, as has been hinted
above, then we must also suppose that the vibrations, which
ascend along any sensory nerve, affect the region of the brain
which corresponds to this sensory nerve more, and the other
regions less, thau according to this proportion.
Sixthly, Since the vibrations, or reciprocal motions, of the
small particles of each nerve are made in the same line of
direction with the nerve, they must enter the brain in that
direction, and may preserve some small regard to this direction
at considerable distances within the brain ; especially if this be
favoured by the structure of the nervous fibrils in the brain.
Hence the same internal parts of the brain may be made to vibrate
in different directions, according to the different directions of the
nerves by which the vibrations enter.
And thus it appears, that, admitting the existence and subtlety
of the {ether, and the qualities of the medullary substance here
alleged, a probable account may be given, how the vibrations,
asserted in the last proposition, may be excited in the sensory
nerves, and propagated thence over the whole medullary sub
stance, and over that alone. And the suitableness of this
proposition to the last, and of both to a variety of phaenomena,
which will be seen in the course of these observations, may be
considered as some evidence for both.
Let it be remarked also, that, if the performance of sensation
by vibratory motions of the medullary particles be admitted, the
existence of a subtle elastic fluid must be admitted in consequence
thereof, as the only means that can be conceived for their rise
and free propagation, so as to answer to the phaenomena of
sense, motion, and ideas; and reciprocally, if the existence of so
subtle and elastic a fluid, as the aether described by Sir Isaac
Newton, can be established upon independent principles, it may
reasonably be supposed to penetrate the pores of the medullary
substance, how small soever they be, in the same manner as air
penetrates grosser cavities and pores ; and, like air, both be
itself agitated by vibrations from a variety of causes, and also
communicate these to the medullary particles. We may, there
fore, either deduce the doctrine of vibrations here proposed from
the consideration of the aether, or the existence of the aether
from the doctrine of vibrations, according as either of these can
be first established.
There is also some light and evidence to be cast upon one or
both of these propositions, from several natural phaenomena ; as
I will endeavour to shew in the following remarks :—
1. Heat in natural bodies is probably attended by vibrations
of the small parts. This may be inferred from the duration and
gradual declension of heat, and from the gross general proportion
which is observed between this duration and the density of the
heated body. For a vibratory motion would subsist for some
time, decline gradually, and be kept up longer, ctvieris paribus,
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 17
where the number of vibrating particles were many, than where
few. The same hypothesis is well suited to the rarefaction,
fluidity, dissolution, and other changes of texture which heat
produces in bodies, according to their various natures. And if
we farther consider that all bodies, contiguous to each other,
come, after a short time, to the same degree of heat, viz. that of
the circumambient air ; those which are hotter losing something,
and those which are colder gaining ; and yet that the air is not
necessary for the conveyance of heat, as appears from Sir Isaac
Newton's experiment of the two thermometers above-mentioned ;
it will appear highly probable, both that heat in bodies is
attended by vibratory motions of the small parts, and also that
these are communicated to contiguous bodies by vibrations of a
subtle fluid, by an argument something different from that urged
above, in speaking of the two thermometers ; at least the con
sideration of the equality of temperature, to which all contiguous
bodies are known, by common observations, to arrive, will cast
some light upon that argument. And upon the whole it will
follow, that heat in us is caused or attended by subtle vibrations
of the medullary substance, which is the immediate instrument
of all the sensations ; and that a subtle fluid is concerned in the
production of this effect. And what is thus proved of heat, may
be inferred to hold in respect of all the other sensations, from the
argument of analogy.
2. Light is so nearly related to beat, that we must suppose
the argument of analogy to be particularly strong in respect of it :
but besides this, we have an independent argument for the exist
ence of vibrations here, also for their communication by a subtle
fluid, if we admit Sir Isaac Newton's hypothesis concerning the
cause of the alternate fits of easy reflection and transmission, as I
have above remarked.
3. As sounds are caused by pulses or vibrations excited in the
air by the tremors of the parts of sounding bodies, they must
raise vibrations in the membrana tympani ; and the small bones
of the ear seem peculiarly adapted, by their situation and mus
cles, to communicate these vibrations to the cavities of the
vestibulum, semicircular canals, and cochlea, in which the auditory
nerve is expanded ; i. e. to the nerve itself. Now though these
are gross vibrations, in respect of those which we must suppose
to take place in the aether itself, yet they prepare the way for the
supposition of the more subtle vibrations of the aether, and may
be the instrument of these, in the same manner as very gross
reciprocal motions of bodies in the air are observed to produce,
by percussion, those quicker vibrations in which sound con
sists.
4. We are, in some measure, prepared also for admitting the
-doctrine of vibrations in the animal functions, from that dispo
sition to yield a sound upon percussion, which appears in some
degree in almost all bodies ; since this shews, that the disposition
c
18 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
to vibrate is general, or even universal, in the bigger orders of
particles; and therefore makes it more easy to conceive, that
there may be a like disposition in the lesser orders, *. e. in the
infinitesimal medullary particles, considered in this and the fore
going proposition.
5. The mutual attractions and repulsions which seem to inter
cede between all small particles, concur to the same purpose.
For when the attractions and repulsions are changed, by changing
the distances of the particles, these must oscillate to and fro for
some time, before they can gain their former equilibrium.
6. Elasticity seems to result from mutual attractions and
repulsions of some kind, and is evidently the cause of vibrations
in musical strings, and many other bodies. It seems also, that
there is scarce any body entirely devoid of elasticity. And thus
elasticity is connected with the doctrine of vibrations in different
ways.
7. The effluvia of electric bodies seem to have vibrating mo
tions. For they are excited by friction, patting, and heat; and
excite light, sound, and a pricking sensation. They have also
a repulsive power in respect of each other, as the particles of air
have; and therefore must, like them, be easily susceptible of
vibrations. Their motions along hempen strings resemble the
motions along the nerves in sensation and muscular contraction ;
and their attractive powers, at the end of such strings, resemble
the powers of the sensations over the muscles for contracting
them. So that electricity is also connected in various ways with
the doctrine of vibrations.
Lastly, To sum up in one what has been remarked in the last
five paragraphs: as the attractions of gravitation, electricity,
magnetism, and cohesion, with the repulsions which attend upon
the three last, intimate to us the general tenor of nature in
this respect ; viz. that many of its phaenomena are carried on by
attractions and repulsions ; and that these may be expected to
take place in the small descending orders of particles, as well as
in gross bodies, and in the biggest component particles ; so the
pulses of the air, the tremors of sounding bodies, the propagation
of sounds both through the air, and along contiguous solid
bodies, the oscillations of elastic bodies, and the phaenomena of
electricity, may, in like manner, serve as a clew and guide to the
invention, and afford a presumption, that other reciprocal mo
tions or vibrations have a great share in the production of natural
phaenomena.
Nor is it an objection to this, but rather a confirmation of it,
that these principles of attraction and repulsion of the several
kinds, and of vibrations, are dependent upon and involved within
each other, since this also is agreeable to the tenor of nature,
as it is observed in the body, in the mind, in science an general,
and in the several branches of each science in particular. Each
part, faculty, principle, &c. when considered and pursued
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 19
sufficiently, seems to extend itselfinto the boundaries of the others,
and, as it were, to enclose and comprehend them all. Thus
magnetism mixes itself with the gravitation both of bodies upon
the surface of the earth, and with that of the moon to the earth :
a polar virtue of the same kind seems to have a principal share
in the formation of natural bodies, especially those whose parts
cohere in regular figures : electricity may also extend, without
being excited by friction or otherwise, to small distances, and
join with the just-mentioned polar virtue in making the parts
of bodies cohere, and in some cases in regular figures. The
effervescence which attends the mixture of acids and alcalis, and
the solution of certain bodies in menstruums, fermentation, and
putrefaction, are all general principles of very extensive influence,
nearly related to each other, and to the fore-mentioned mutual
attractions and repulsions, and are possessed of the same un
limited power of propagating themselves, which belongs to the
several species of plants and animals. A repulsion which should
throw off indefinitely small corpuscles with indefinitely great
velocity from all the bodies of the universe, (a thing that would
be very analogous to the emission of light, odoriferous particles,
and magnetical and electrical effluvia, and to the generation of
air and vapour,) might cause the gravitation of all the great
bodies of the universe to each other, and perhaps other kinds of
attraction. Some of these corpuscles, by stopping each other in
the intermundane spaces, or other mutually repulsive corpuscles
lodged there from causes not yet discovered, may compose a
subtle vibrating medium. The vibrations of this medium, being
continued to the great bodies of the universe, may so far agitate
their small parts, as to give their attractive and repulsive powers
an opportunity to exert themselves with great vigour ; and the
emission of the above-mentioned corpuscles may be, in part,
occasioned by the attractions and consequent collisions of small
parts thus agitated ; so that elastic corpuscles may be thrown off
from these small parts with indefinitely great velocity. And it
would be no objection to these or such like suppositions, that we
could not explain, in any definite manner, how these things are
affected, nor put any limits to the sizes of decreasing corpuscles,
or their active powers in respect of each other. Nor would this
. be to reason in a circle, more than when we argue, that the heart
and brain, or the body and the mind, depend upon each other
for their functions ; which are undeniable truths, however unable
we may be to give a full and ultimate explanation of them.
However it is not impossible, on the other hand, but future ages
may analyse all the actions of bodies upon each other, up to a
few simple principles, by making such suppositions as the phae-
nomena shall suggest, and then trying and modelling them by
the phaenomena. At least this is what one is led to hope, from
the many simple and easy solutions of very complex problems,
which have been produced within the two last centuries.
c 2
20 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
We may draw the following corollaries from the hypothesis of
vibrations, as laid down in the two foregoing propositions.
Cor. I. The vibrations of the medullary particles may be
affected with four sorts of differences ; viz. those of degree, kind,
place, and line of direction. Vibrations differ in degree, accord
ing as they are more or less vigorous ; i. e. as the particles oscillate
to and fro, through a longer or shorter very short space ; i. e. as
the impression of the object is stronger or weaker, and thus affects
the medullary particles more or less vigorously, either directly
and immediately, or mediately, by generating a greater or less
degree of condensation in the pulses of the aether. Vibrations
differ in kind, according as they are more or less frequent;
i. e. more or less numerous, in the same space of time. They
differ in place according as they affect this or that region of the
medullary substance of the brain primarily. And they differ in
the line of direction, according as they enter by different external
nerves.
Cor. II. The magnitude of each sensation is chiefly to be
estimated from the vibrations which take place in the medullary
substance of the brain; those which are excited in the spinal
marrow and nerves being, for the most part, so inconsiderable, in
respect of the just-mentioned ones, that they may be neglected.
Cor. III. The brain may therefore, in a common way of speak
ing, be reckoned the seat of the sensitive soul, or the sensorium,
in men, and all those animals where the medullary substance of
the nerves and spinal marrow is much less than that of the brain ;
and this even upon the supposition laid down in the first propo
sition ; viz. that the whole medullary substance of the brain, spinal
marrow, and nerves, is the immediate instrument of sensation,
and equally related to the sensitive soul, or principle. But if
there be any reason to suppose that the first proposition is not
strictly true, but that the spinal marrow and nerves are only
instruments subservient to the brain, just as the organs of the
hand, eye, ear, &c. are to them, and the,brain itself to the soul,
we may conclude absolutely, that the sensorium of such animals
is to be placed in the brain, or even in the innermost regions of
it. Now there are some phamomena which favour this, by
shewing, that whatever motions be excited in the nerves, no sen
sation can arise unless this motion penetrate to, and prevail in,
the brain. Thus, when a nerve is compressed, we lose the sense
of feeling in the parts to which it leads : a person much intent
upon his own thoughts does not hear the sound of a clock ; *. e.
the vibrations excited by this sound in the auditory nerve cannot
penetrate to, and prevail in, the brain, on account of those which
already occupy it : and a person who has lost a limb often feels a
pain which seems to proceed from the amputated limb ; probably
because the region of the brain corresponding to that limb is
still affected.
If it be certain, that some of the medullary parts have been
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 21
discharged in abscesses of the brain, one would incline to think,
that the external parts of the medulla are instrumental, in
respect of the internal. And, on the other hand, one may
question, whether in animals of the serpentine form, and those
whose brains are comparatively small, and in all those of the
polypous kind, the sensorium be not equally diffused over the
whole medullary substance, or even over all the living parts. I
only hint these things, not presuming even to conjecture, but
only to excite those who have proper opportunities, to inquire
carefully into these matters.
Cor. IV. If we allow the existence of the aether, and its use in
performing sensation, thought, and motion, as it may be inferred
from the two foregoing propositions, compared with such other
things as follow in these observations, in favour of the doctrine of
vibrations ; we may conclude that the aether must have a consider
able share in the production of many other natural phaenomena ;
and therefore shall have a sufficient foundation for trying how
far it will carry us agreeably to the facts. 1 would recommend
this, in a particular manner, to those persons who are much
conversant with electrical phaenomena ; especially as Sir Isaac
Newton himself, whose great caution and reservedness, in difficult
and doubtful matters, are sufficiently known, has made no
scruple to affirm, that the powers of electrical bodies are owing
to the action of the aether. See the last paragraph of the
Principia.
Scholium. It may be proper to remark here, that I do not,
by thus ascribing the performance of sensation to vibrations
excited in the medullary substance, in the least presume to
assert^or intimate, that matter can be endued with the power of
sensation. It is common to all systems, to suppose some motions
attendant upon sensation, since corporeal objects must, by their
actions, impress some motion upon our bodies, and particularly
upon that part which is most nearly related to the sentient
principle ; i. e. upon the medullary substance, according to the
first and second propositions. I lay down these propositions,
therefore, as established by the common consent of physicians
and philosophers ; and upon that foundation proceed to inquire
into, and determine, some matters of a more difficult nature ;
such as, the complex problems concerning sensations, ideas, and
motions, and their mutual influences and relations.
The following instance may illustrate this :—The quantity of
matter in bodies is always found to be proportional to their
gravity : we may therefore either make the quantity of matter
the exponent of the gravity, or the gravity the exponent of
it, according as either can be best ascertained ; notwithstand
ing that we are entirely at a loss to determine in what mechanical .
way each atom contributes to the gravity of the whole mass ;
and even though we should, with some, suppose this effect to be
iminechanical, and to arise from the immediate agency of God.
THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
And by parity of reason, if that species of motion which we
term vibrations, can be shown, by probable arguments, to attend
upon all sensations, ideas, and motions, and to be proportional
to them ; then we are at liberty either to make vibrations the
exponent of sensations, ideas, and motions, or these the exponents
of vibrations, as best suits the inquiry; however impossible it
may be to discover in what way vibrations cause, or are connected
with, sensations, or ideas; i.e. though vibrations be of a cor
poreal, sensations and ideas of a mental, nature.
If we suppose an infinitesimal elementary body to be interme
diate between the soul and gross body, which appears to be no
improbable supposition, then the changes in our sensations,
ideas, and motions, may correspond to the changes made in the
medullary substance, only as far as these correspond to the
changes made in the elementary body. And if these last
changes have some other source besides the vibrations in the
medullary substance, some peculiar original properties, for
instance, of the elementary body, then vibrations will not be
adequate exponents of sensations, ideas, and motions. Other
suppositions to the same purpose might be made ; and upon the
whole, I conjecture, that though the first and second proposi
tions are true, in a very useful practical sense, yet they are not
so in an ultimate and precise one.
Prop. VI.—The Phcenomena of sensible Pleasure and Pain
appear to be very suitable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
The most vigorous of our sensations are termed sensible
pleasures and pains, as noted above, in the Introduction. And
the vivid nature of these engages us to be very attentive to their
several properties, relations, and oppositions. It is requisite
therefore, in our inquiry into the doctrine of vibrations, to
examine, how far the phaenomena of sensible pleasure and pain
can be deduced from, or explained by, it.
- First, then, the doctrine of vibrations seems to require, that
each pain should differ from the corresponding and opposite
pleasure, not in kind, but in degree only ; i. e. that pain should
be nothing more than pleasure itself, carried beyond a due limit.
For of the four differences of vibrations mentioned in the first
corollary of the foregoing proposition, three are given, vix.
those of kind, place, and line of direction, in the pleasures and
pains which correspond, as opposites to each other: there is
therefore nothing left, from whence the difference of such plea
sures and pains can arise, except the difference of degree. But
the phaenomena appear to be sufficiently suitable to this reason
ing, inasmuch as all pleasure appears to pass into pain, by
increasing its cause, impression, duration, sensibility of the organ
upon which it is impressed, &c. Thus an agreeable warmth
may be made to pass into a troublesome or burning heat, by
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL.
increase, or continuance ; and the same thing holds in respect of
friction, light, and sounds. And as medicinal bodies appear,
from observations both philosophical and vulgar, to be endued
with more active properties than common aliments ; *. e. to be
fitted for exciting stronger vibrations ; so their tastes and smells
are, for the most part, ungrateful ; whereas those of common
aliments . are pleasant. It may be observed also, that some
painful sensations, as they decrease by time, or the removal of
the cause, pass into positive local pleasures, of the same species as
the preceding pain ; thus shewing the near alliance between
pleasure and pain ; and that a mere difference in degree puts on
the appearance of one in kind, at a certain point. I suppose it
may be referred to this head, that some bitter and acrimonious
tastes leave an agreeable relish of the sweet kind upon the tongue
after some time.
Secondly, It agrees well with the doctrine of vibrations, that
all evident solutions of continuity in the living parts occasion
pain, inasmuch as a solution of continuity cannot happen without
a violent impression of some sensible object, nor, by consequence,
without violent mutual actions between the object, nerves, and
aether. The solution of continuity does therefore pre-suppose
that degree of violence in the vibrations, which exceeds the limit
of pleasure, and is proper to pain, according to the foregoing
paragraph.
Thirdly, We may, in like manner, give a reason, from the
doctrine of vibrations, both why a moderate degree of disten
tion in the parts is necessary to their growth and pleasurable
state ; and also, why all great distentions are attended with pain
for a considerable time before they are raised to such a pitch as
to cause a visible solution of continuity. For a great distention
is equivalent to a vigorous impression of a sensible object, being
often caused by such ; and as the situation of the small particles
is changed in great distentions, their mutual actions will be
changed also, and so may give rise to more vigorous vibrations ;
and these increased vibrations may either fall within the limits of
pleasure, or go beyond them, according to their degree. We
are also to consider, that in all considerable distentions there is
an increase of friction between the vessels and circulating fluids,
and consequently of heat, i. e. of vibrations.
But besides this, it seems not improbable, that in preternatural
and painful distentions, the small particles are perpetually sepa
rating themselves from their former cohesions, and running into
new ones ; so that a minute and invisible solution of continuity is
carried on during the whole distention, till such time as this
degree of distention becomes familiar to the parts, and the situa
tion and mutual actions of the small particles be accommodated
to it. Thus, the cause of the pain in distentions will arise
from the solution of continuity, and may be referred to the
foregoiug head. And conversely it appears, that in manifest
.21 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
solutions of continuity, occasioned by wounds, burns, &c. there
always arises in the neighbouring parts, which are inflamed, a
preternatural distention of the small fibres and vessels; by which
means the pain is renewed and continued. Every manifest
solution of continuity does therefore, according to the explanation
of distention just laid down, include within itself an infinite
number of minute invisible solutions.
Hence we may ask, whether this minute invisible solution of
continuity in the infinitesimal medullary particles of the brain be
not that common limit, and middle point, which separates plea
sure from pain, and of which the visible solutions of continuity,
which are caused by external injuries, are a type, and also a
means, viz. by propagating violent vibrations up to the brain ?
It is some presumption in favour of this position, that all conjec
tures concerning invisible things ought to be taken from visible
ones of the same kind ; also, that it is particularly suitable to
the doctrine of vibrations ; inasmuch as, laying down this doctrine,
one may easily conceive how moderate and pleasant impressions
may agitate the medullary particles in so moderate a degree, as
that they shall again return to their former situations and con
nexions, when the agitation is over ; whereas violent and painful
ones may force the particles from thence, and give rise to new
ones, i. e. to the solution of continuity. And as the body is so
formed, that great and visible solutions of continuity may be
healed again, and the parts restored, in great measure, to their
primitive integrity and perfection, by the power of nature, unless
where there is a loss of substance, (and yet even here the same
end is obtained in part ;) so we may suppose, that the power of
nature restores all minute solutions of continuity in the consti
tuent infinitesimal particles almost instantaneously, and so that
the body receives no perceptible detriment from single instances,
though it probably does from frequent repetitions ; agreeably to
which, it is generally supposed, that pain, by often returning,
impairs the faculties, both bodily and mental.
Fourthly, The bones, nails, hair, and cuticle, may, consistently
with the doctrine of vibrations, have a solution of continuity
produced in their parts, without pain ensuing; for they are
hard, and therefore incapable, as it seems, of receiving and
communicating to the contiguous nerves, and thence to the brain,
vibrations of any considerable degree of strength. We are also
to suppose, that in palsies, mortifications, &c. changes of texture
of somewhat a like kind are produced, so as to render the parts
affected thereby incapable of conveying sensation to the medul
lary substance of the brain. Old age, inactivity, inflammation,
pain, &c. are in like manner to be considered, as inducing such a
degree of condensation, fixation, and callosity, in the medullary
substance itself, as must end at last in insensibility and death.
Fifthly, It is not unsuitable to the doctrine of vibrations, that
the frequent repetition of the same external impressions should
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL.
have the power of converting original pains into pleasures, and
pleasures into mere sensations, *. e. into evanescent pleasures ; as
we find it has in fact. For this may be effected by such a change
in the organ and brain, as that the organ shall send weaker and
weaker vibrations perpetually to the brain, upon every successive
renewal of the same impression, and the brain become perpetually
less and less disposed to receive strong vibrations, though the
power of communication from the impressions should continue
the same. It remains therefore to be inquired, what general
tendencies in the small medullary particles might dispose them
to undergo such changes. And it appears to me, that a change
of the spheres of attraction and repulsion in these particles, upon
every change in their situations, so as always to lean towards the
situation last superinduced, might be sufficient for this purpose.
However, this is a mere supposition, and that of a very recluse
nature. Only let it be observed, that the fact to be here
accounted for, viz. the decrease in the efficacy of impressions
frequently repeated, is both an evident one, and also must have
its rise from some powers in the small parts of matter over each
other. It must therefore admit of an explanation, either from
the doctrine of vibrations, or from some other law of matter and
motion. And if the doctrine of vibrations be found suitable to
other phaenomena, it may be presumed not to be unsuitable to
this, till such time as some manifest inconsistency between them
shall appear.
It ought to be remarked here, that this transit of original
pains into pleasures, and of vivid pleasures into faint ones, by
frequent repetition, bears some relation to the above-mentioned
transition of pains into positive local pleasures, of the same kind
with themselves.
To this head of consideration may be referred Dr. Jurin's
observation ; viz. " That when we have been for some time
affected with one sensation, as soon as we cease to be so affected,
a contrary sensation is apt to arise in us, sometimes of itself,
and sometimes from such causes as at another time would not
produce that sensation at all, or at least not to the same degree."
For the continued impression of the same object will so fix upon
the sensory nerve, and region of the brain corresponding thereto,
a tendency to one peculiar sort of vibrations, that an impression
of an opposite or very different sort, must do more than usual
violence to the brain ; *. e. will excite a glaring sensation of an
opposite nature. See the instances mentioned by Dr. Jurin, in
his Essay on distinct and indistinct Vision.
Sixthly, We may account for the different kinds and degrees
of pleasure and pain, from the four differences of vibrations
mentioned above, viz. those of degree, kind, place, and line of
direction, and their various combinations with each other. For
it is obvious to conceive, that these combinations may be suffi
ciently numerous and distinct from each other, to answer to the
26 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
facts. If the vibrations go beyond the common limit of pleasure
and pain in one part of the brain, at the same time that they
fall short of it in others, the result will be a pleasure or pain,
according as this or that sort of vibrations prevails ; and if they
be nearly equal, it will be difficult to determine of which kind it
is. If the vibrations fall a little short in all the parts, they will
generate a high degree of pleasure; which, however, must be
less than the least general pain, i. e. such a one wherein the
vibrations go beyond the limits in all the parts: but it may be
far greater than partial pains, or than those which affect only
one particular region of the brain. Hence we may see, that the
pains are in general greater than the pleasures; but then they
are more rare for the same reason, being such violent states as
cannot arise from common impressions. Or, if we suppose the
pains to be frequent, they will then so far alter the disposition
of the medullary substance, according to what was said above,
as that many original pains will be converted into pleasures.
Which indeed seems to be the case not unfrequently ; for the
organs of the new-born infant are so delicate, as to receive pain
from many of those impressions which afterwards yield pleasure.
But then, his sources of pleasure seem to be multiplied more
than in proportion to what he suffers by this previous passage
through pain.
In certain cases of excessive pains, the violent vibrations
appear at last to excite a latent attractive power in the medul
lary particles, in the manner hereafter to be described, in respect
of the fibres of the muscles and membranes, which puts a stop
to those very vibrations that excited it. Hence faintings and
stupors ; i. e. the cessation of pain from violent pains. However, a
greater degree of vibrations is probably required for exciting this
attractive power in the medullary particles than in white fibres,
and in white fibres than in red ones, as will appear hereafter.
It follows also, from the principles here laid down, that all the
pleasures, though particularly different from each other, ought
to have a general resemblance, in their circumstances and con
sequences ; and the pains likewise.
Seventhly, All the mere sensations, which enter the mind by
the five external senses, admit of a general analysis, upon the
same principles as the pleasures and pains do. For all the mere
sensations were, in their original state, either pleasures or pains ;
and vary now from their original state only by the diminution of
the degree. Let therefore all the differences of kind, place, and
line of direction, be combined in all their varieties, the degree
being supposed every where evanescent ; and we shall have all
the particular vibrations from whence each mere sensation arises.
This is the general account. But it is a most difficult problem
to explain, by what differences of kind the particular sensations,
either of the same or of different senses, are distinguished from
.each other.
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL.
It seems probable to me, that the limits of the seven primary
colours, viz. the extreme red, the limit of the red and orange, of
the orange and yellow, yellow and green, green and blue, blue
and indigo, indigo and violet, and the extreme violet, excite
vibrations in the optic nerve, whose times are proportional to
the times of vibration of a string which sounds the notes in
order, according to the key mentioned by Sir Isaac Newton in
his Optics, i. e. the notes D, E, F, G, A, B, C, D. This hypo
thesis affords at least a probable reason for the several very
particular breadths of the primary colours, in the prismatic
oblong image of the sun, as I shall endeavour to show in its
place, Prop. 56.
If the frequency of the vibrations excited by the several sapid
and odorous bodies in the nerves of the tongue, and membrana
Schneideriana, could be discovered, it is not improbable but this
would be a clew to lead us into the inner constitution of natural
bodies, since one may reasonably suppose, that each sapid and
odorous body excites vibrations of the same frequency as those
which take place in it before it is tasted or smelt to.
The solution of the same problem in the several senses might
also a little unfold to us the different internal structure of the
several nerves, and of the parts of the brain that correspond
thereto. For it seems probable to me, that each nerve and
region is originally fitted to receive, and, as one may say, sympa
thize with, such vibrations as are likely to be impressed upon
them in the various incidents of life ; and not that the auditory
nerve could perform the office of the optic, if put into its place,
or vice versa, &c. according to Raw.
Eighthly, It is observed by medical writers, that pain is apt
to excite a contraction in the fibres of the neighbouring mem
branes. Now this is very agreeable to that power which sensory
vibrations have, in general, over the red fleshy muscles, for
contracting them, in the manner to be described hereafter. For
since vibrations of a middle strength, by descending into the red
fibres of the muscles, are sufficient to contract them in the
ordinary functions and actions of life ; it is not unreasonable to
expect, that the stronger vibrations, which attend pain, should
be sufficient to contract the pale fibres of membranes, though
these be in themselves of a less contractile disposition.
It is agreeable to this, that titillation and itching, which lie,
as it were, upon the confines of pleasure and pain, are more apt
to diffuse themselves over the neighbouring parts than pain.
For titillation and itching only agitate the small particles of the
membranes, and therefore run along their surfaces, by the
successive communication of these agitations ; whereas, pain,
by contracting the fibres, puts a stop to these agitations, and
consequently to its own diffusion over the neighbouring parts.
Ninthly, Extreme and pointed parts, such as the extremity of
the nose, the uvula, the epiglottis, the nipples, and the ends of
THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
the fingers, are in general more subject to irritation, itching, and
inflammation, and endued with a greater degree of sensibility,
than the other parts. Now this phaenomenon agrees with the
doctrine of vibrations, inasmuch as such parts must, according to
the Newtonian hypothesis, be surrounded with an aether of a
greater density than that within their pores, and which also
grows denser and denser, in a regular manner. For one may
conceive, that the vibrations communicated to this denser aether
will be stronger in proportion to its density ; and consequently,
that they will agitate the small particles of the extreme parts
also with vibrations stronger than ordinary.
It is true, indeed, that the sensibility of each part does
depend, in great measure, on the number, structure, and dispo
sition, of the nervous papillae, which are the immediate organ in
the senses of feeling, taste, and smell ; but then we may remark,
that the same observation holds in respect of these nervous
papillae. For they are also extreme and pointed parts ; and that
especially, if we suppose, which seems probable, that when any
part is in a state of exquisite sensibility, the nervous papillae are
erected, (in some such manner as the hairs of the neck and
back in certain animals, when enraged,) so as to recede from
each other, and, consequently, to admit the denser aether between
them. They may also, upon the same occasions, be made turgid,
by the constriction of their bases, and thus have their sensibility
or power of receiving vibrations, increased by distention.
We may remark likewise, in pursuing this method of reasoning,
that the aether which lies contiguous to the medullary substance
in the ventricles of the brain, is denser than that which lies in the
medullary substance itself. May we not therefore conjecture,
that one use of the cavities of the ventricles is to increase and
keep up all the vibrations propagated from the external nerves
into the medullary substance of the brain, by means of the denser
aether lodged in those cavities ; that blood and serum extravasated,
and lying in the ventricles, suffocate sensations, by excluding this
denser aether, as well as by pressing on the medullary substance ;
and lastly, that those brutes whose olfactory nerves have cavities
within them continued from the ventricles, are more acute than
men, in perceiving odours, and distinguishing thein from each
other, in part, upon this account?
Boerhaave is, indeed, of opinion, that the opposite sides of the
ventricle always touch each other, so as to leave no cavity. But
it seems more reasonable to suppose, that a subtle vapour, which
is exhaled from the vessels of the investing membrane, and whose
particles, like the vapour of water, have a repulsive power, in
respect of each other, prevents the absolute mutual contact of the
opposite sides, in common cases. And the same thing is favoured
by the experiments tried upon the Parisian beggar. Since the
brain in him could be somewhat pressed in, it seems that the .
skull was not entirely full before.
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 29
Prop. VII.— The Phcenomena of Sleep appear to be very suitable
to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Here I observe, first, that new-born children sleep almost
always. Now this may be accounted for by the doctrine of vibra
tions, in the following manner :—The fetus sleeps always, having
no sensation from without impressed upon it, and only becomes
awake upon its entrance into a new world, viz. by means of the
vigorous vibrations which are impressed upon it. It is reasonable
therefore to expect, that the new-born child should fall back into
its natural state of sleep, as soon as these vibrations cease, and
return again to a state of vigilance only from the renewal of
vigorous impressions ; and so on alternately, agreeably to the fact.
Secondly, Even adults are disposed to sleep, when the im
pressions of external objects are excluded, and their bodies kept
in a state of rest, for the same reasons as those just mentioned
in the similar state of young children. However, they incline
more to vigilance than children, partly because their solids and
fluids are more active, and less compressible, i. e. more susceptible
and retentive of vibrations ; and partly, because association brings
in perpetual trains of ideas, and consequently of vibrations, suffi
ciently vivid to keep up vigilance in common cases.
Thirdly, Having presented the reader with the two foregoing
observations, which are of a very obvious kind, I will now inquire,
with more minuteness, into the intimate and precise nature of
sleep. It appears, then, that during sleep the blood is accumu
lated in the veins, and particularly in the venal sinuses which
surround the brain and spinal marrow ; and also that it is rarefied,
at least for the most part. For as the actions of the muscles
squeeze the blood out of the veins during vigilance, so their in
activity during sleep suffers the blood to lodge in the veins ; and
the decumbent posture, which is common to animals in sleep,
suffers it to lodge particularly in the venal sinuses of the brain
and spinal marrow. And it is agreeable to this, that, in most
dissections, the blood is found chiefly in the veins ; and in dissec
tions after lethargies, apoplexies, &c. the venal sinuses of the
brain, and consequently those of the spinal marrow, which com
municate freely with them, are particularly full. As to the rare
faction of the blood, it follows from the warmth of the body,
which is an usual attendant upon sleep, and is caused by the rest
of the body, the warmth of the place where the person sleeps,
the coverings, and the fermentative disposition of the fresh chyle,
which then enters the blood. It follows, therefore, that the brain
and spinal marrow will be particularly compressed during sleep ;
since the blood then takes up more space, is particularly accumu
lated within the cavities of the skull and vertebrae, and the hard
ness of these bones will not suffer them to yield, or make more
room. It follows, also, that the softness of the medullary sub
stance will subject it to the effects of this compression, more than
,rJ0 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
the cortical; so that, if we suppose its functions to consist in
receiving, retaining, and communicating vibrations, it will be
rendered peculiarly unfit for these functions, from the com
pression here mentioned ; i. e. the animal will be indisposed to
sensation and motion, agreeably to observation.
There are many other arguments which might be brought to
shew, that during sleep, and sleepy distempers, the brain is par
ticularly compressed, if it were necessary. But the instance of
the Parisian beggar above noted, is most to this purpose. This
person had a perforation in his skull, which did not ossify ;
whence, by external pressure upon that part, the internal regions
of the brain might be affected ; and it was constantly observed,
that, as the pressure increased, he grew more and more sleepy,
and at last fell into a temporary apoplexy.
In young children, there seems to be a constant moderate
pressure of the skull upon the brain. For the brain is of a great
relative magnitude in them; and by its endeavour to expand
itself, it keeps the sutures from uniting too firmly, till such time
as it is arrived at its full growth. It must therefore be com
pressed in return, by the re-action of the skull. And this may
be considered as a circumstance, which concurs to render young
children more apt to sleep than adults. When old persons are
sleepy, it is a morbid affection, and may arise either from an
hydropical disposition, whereby the turgescence of the neigh
bouring parts compresses the medullary substance ; or from a
defect of nutrition in this substance, which renders it soft and
compressible in a preternatural degree. If the venal sinuses,
and other blood-vessels, of the brain, be by any accident pre-
ternaturally distended, and continue so for a considerable time,
they will scarce ever recover their pristine tone and dimensions ;
and this so much the more, as the person approaches to old age.
For the same reason, as the medullary substance within the
skull and vertebrae is compressed during sleep, that of the gan
glions, plexuses, and trunks of the nerves, in other parts of the
body, will be compressed also, though in a less degree. For this
substance has no blood or gross fluids within it, and is far the
softest of all the parts of the body ; and the membranes, which
invest all the parts of the body, perform the same office to them,
in a less degree, as the skull does to the brain, i. e. check their
distention. The surrounding membranes must therefore com
press the soft medullary substance in the ganglions, plexuses, and
trunks of the nerves, during sleep, on account of the rarefaction
of the humours at that time ; whence, according to the doctrine
of vibrations, sensory ones can neither ascend freely from the
external organs to the brain, nor motory ones descend into the
limbs ; i. e. the animal will be insensible and inactive, as it is
found to be in fact.
Is it not probable, that, as sleep comes on, the opposite sides
of the ventricles of the brain approach towards each other, on
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 31
account of the compression here asserted ; also, that they become
contiguous at the instant of sleep, excluding the denser aether,
mentioned in the foregoing proposition, thereby? By this means,
the power of sensation would receive a remarkable diminution at
the instant of falling asleep, as it seems to do. There might also,
in certain circumstances, arise a very vivid exertion of the per
ceptive and motive faculties at that instant, from the compression
of the aether previous to its rarefaction, such as would account
for the sudden terrors and startings which happen at the instant
of going to sleep, in some morbid cases.
Fourthly, It is observed, that vigilance continued, fatigue, and
pain, all dispose strongly to sleep. For all vigorous or long-
continued vibrations must both generate heat, whereby the blood
and juices will be rarefied, so as to compress the medullary sub
stance, and also exhaust this substance of its fluid and active
particles, so as to render it more easily compressible, and less
susceptible and retentive of vibrations. Great degrees of heat
seem to produce an extraordinary propensity to sleep, in nearly
the same way.
And when persons exposed to extreme cold are overcome by
a pleasing but fatal sleep, it seems as if the internal parts were
affected with a preternatural warmth, from the vigorous sensations
and concomitant vibrations impressed on the external parts by
the cold, and thence ascending to the brain. It agrees with the
hypothesis here proposed, that these uneasy sensations decline
by degrees, till they fall within the limits of pleasure, and at last
end in insensibility. This sleep may prove fatal, from the great
difference between the internal and external parts, in respect
of heat ; also from the cold's penetrating farther and farther.
Muscular motion may prevent it, and its ill effects, partly as the
veins are emptied by this, partly as it warms the external parts,
and cools the internal, from the return of the cool blood into the
course of the circulation. If we suppose the circulation to cease
entirely at the surface of the body, from the cold, then will warm
blood circulate through the internal parts alone ; and these parts
will continue to be defended from the cold by the external ones,
for a time. And thus the body will approach to the common
state of a person going to sleep.
It is easy to see, from the method of reasoning here used, how
persons recovering from long illnesses should be much disposed
to sleep, viz. from the exhaustion of the medullary substance,
their almost constant rest, their being kept warm, and the fre
quent taking sustenance, so as to beget great quantities of fresh
chyle, and consequently, an extraordinary degree of a fermenta
tive heat.
Fifthly, The manner in which opiates produce sleep, may be
thus explained, agreeably to the doctrine of vibrations. Opiates
evidently excite grateful sensations in the stomach and bowels.
This appears from the short time in which liquid opiates take
32 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
effect ; and even from immediate and direct sensations. A person
may even feel, that the stomach is the seat of the pleasurable
impressions made by opiates. We are to suppose therefore, that
vivid vibrations, which, however, lie within the limits of pleasure,
ascend perpetually from the stomach and bowels, along the par
vagum, and intercostal nerves, up to the brain and spinal marrow,
diffuse themselves over these, and from thence descend along the
nerves into all the parts of the body. Hence it follows, that they
will obscure and overpower all moderate sensations, or vibrations,
which subsisted before, or which external objects may from time
to time endeavour to excite, and introduce a general pleasurable
state over the whole nervous system ; with trains of pleasurable
ideas, in the manner to be explained hereafter, when we come to
treat of ideas, their generation, associations, and dependencies on
bodily states. During this pleasurable state, the body will of
course be composed to rest; restlessness, tossings, and changes
of posture, being caused, for the most part, by uneasy sensations.
Hence the blood will be accumulated in the veins and venal
sinuses, and grow warm both from the vigorous vibrations excited
by the opiate, and from the absolute rest of the body. For
absolute rest conduces, in a peculiar manner, to make the body
grow warm by the heat reflected from the contiguous coverings ;
as, on the contrary, the slightest motions frequently returning
ventilate and cool the parts. And thus the compression of the
medullary substance requisite for sleep will be induced by the
action of the opiate upon the stomach and bowels.
But, besides this, we may conceive, that the opiate particles
excite vibrations of the same kind in all the parts of the body,
after they are taken into the blood, and circulate with it, till
such time as, by a perfect assimilation, they lose all their peculiar
qualities.
It seems, also, that the continued descent of vibrations, from
the brain, and spinal marrow, into the limbs, and external parts,
agitates them so much, as to render them unfit for receiving
sensation and motion, in the same manner as continued friction
of the head, when newly shaved, or shaking the hand, occasion a
kind of numbness in the head and hand respectively. For a
disorder raised in the motory nerves and muscular fibres, analo
gous to numbness in the sensory nerves, and sentient papillae,
must produce ineptitude to motion. It seems, therefore, that
the insensibility and immobility which proceed from opiates, and
which concur in hastening the sleep, and increasing its degree,
arise in great part from this cause. The numbness, and paralytic
weaknesses, which frequently succeed after opiates, are evidences
for what is here alleged.
Opium seems to have an intermediate degree of activity be
tween narcotics, or stupifying poisons, on one hand, and grateful
aliments, particularly vinous liquors, on the other. Narcotics
operate so violently on the stomach and bowels, the brain, and
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 33
the external parts, as to bring confusion on the sensations, and
trains of ideas, and convulsions on the muscular system. And
that these effects are produced by a local influence on the
stomach, in the manner proposed concerning opiates, appears,
beause they cease, or abate much, soon after the narcotic is
ejected by vomiting; also because whipping a dog, after he has
taken the nux vomica, contributes to obviate its ill effects.
'Wines, and grateful aliments, dispose to sleep, partly by their
immediate effects on the stomach, partly by their effects alter
they are absorbed. But the degree not being so great as in
opiates, it may more easily be overcome by a variety of common
or vigorous impressions; in which case the vivid vibrations,
excited by the wine or aliment, will illuminate all the im
pressions, and add strength to all the motions. The same thing
is observed of opiates, in those who take them frequently.
Sixthly, Chylification, sanguification, nutrition, and growth,
seem to proceed best during sleep. This may be conjectured
from the sleepiness of all animals after eating, since sleep and
chylification, &c. must here concur ; and from the almost con
stant sleep of new-born children, above taken notice of, since
nature seems chiefly intent on the due performance of these
functions, for some time after birth. Now the doctrine of vibra
tions may be made to illustrate these points, in some measure.
For since respiration becomes strong and convulsive at the instant
of going to sleep, it will renew and increase the vibrations excited
in the nerves of the stomach and bowels by their contents, which
we must suppose to have languished before, in the same manner
as those which subsisted in the external senses. The organs of
digestion therefore, as well as those of respiration, are in a state
of vigilance, and are intent upon the performance of their proper
functions, while the other parts are in a state of sleep and in
action, and recruiting, in order to perform their functions in a
due manner, upon a return of vigilance. And this holds most
particularly in respect of the medullary substance of the brain,
spinal marrow, and nerves, which, by the consent of all, is the
chief instrument of nutrition and growth. Since the vibrations
which take place in it during sleep are languid, it will then be
filled and recruited, and consequently fitted for nutrition and
growth ; which will be farther favoured by the concurrence of a
complete chylification and sanguification, at the same time.
The increased convulsive respiration, and increased force of
the heart, which take place at the instant of going to sleep,
and continue frequently during sleep, may perhaps be thus
accounted for, agreeably to the doctrine of vibrations. When
vivid vibrations cease in the external senses, and regions of the
brain belonging to them, also in the muscles of the limbs, and
parts of the spinal marrow corresponding thereto, this abatement
of vibrations must either extend to the whole medullary sub
stance, which seems to be the case in the night-mare ; or if the
34 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
nerves of the heart, and organs of respiration, and the regions of
the brain and spinal marrow corresponding thereto, be exempted,
they may be agitated even with more vigorous vibrations, on
account of the abatement in the other parts, because the vibra
tions raised in these regions during sleep, by such of their causes
as take place then, will be hindered from diffusing themselves
freely, and abating their own force thereby, as soon as the other
regions are collapsed and compressed. These causes are, first,
the heat of the blood, and pulsation of the arteries of the me
dullary substance; both which, when increased on any account,
must farther increase themselves by a reflected influence, since
both increase the force of the heart. Secondly, the fulness and
distention of the lungs. These arise from the rarefaction of the
blood, and accumulation of it in the veins just before sleep (at
which time respiration is languid), and must at last stimulate the
organs of respiration to a vigorous exertion of themselves ; i. e.
raise vigorous vibrations in the region of the brain corresponding
thereto, just as in the cases of sighing, and recovering from the
night-mare. Thirdly, we may suppose, that the heart, and
muscles of respiration, do not exert themselves during vigilance,
with a degree of force at all approaching to their utmost powers,
as the limbs do ; and therefore, that they, and the corresponding
regions of the brain, may be qualified for a vigorous exertion
during sleep. Fourthly, an increase in the force of respiration
must also increase the force with which the heart moves, because
it propels the blood in greater quantities upon the heart. Fifthly,
an increase of force in the heart must increase both itself and
the action of respiration, because the blood-vessels of the heart
and organs of respiration are particularly near to the heart, and
therefore must be particularly under its influence.
Cor. I. By laying together what has been delivered con
cerning sleep, in this proposition, the difference between the
states of sleep and vigilance may be thus set before the reader,
in one view. In sleep, the nerves of the five external senses
are indisposed to receive vibrations, and the objects themselves
are either absent, or impressed feebly. The nerves of the
stomach and bowels sympathize with these at first, but recover
themselves at the instant of sleep, the impressions of the aliment,
&c. being then made with unusual vigour; and this continues
during the time of sleep. In like manner the muscular system
becomes inactive in general ; the heart, however, and muscles
and respiration, are excepted, and even exert themselves with an
extraordinary degree of force. The blood is rarefied so as to
take up more space upon the whole ; and as there is more in the
veins, and particularly in those of the brain, and spinal marrow,
than in a state of vigilance, the medullary substance is hereby
exposed to a constant uniform compression ; whereas, in vigi
lance, the action of the muscles squeezes the blood out of the
veins, and cools it, unless this action be violent, or long continued.
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 35
The glands are filled during sleep, and consequently, by drawing
off from the fulness of the blood-vessels, prepare the body for
vigilance, and are themselves fitted for the functions to be then
performed ; i. e. to excrete their proper fluids from muscular
compression, or vibrations running up their excretory ducts, in
the manner to be hereafter explained. The medullary substance
is, in like manner, fitted and prepared for vigilance, whether it
be of a glandular nature, or not. However, some vibrations must
take place in it throughout, and they are particularly vivid in
the regions corresponding to the heart, organs of respiration,
and organs of digestion ; also in the regions corresponding to the
eye and ear, where they excite the trains of images which are
presented to us in our dreams. But the nature of these cannot
be unfolded till we have treated of ideas, their generation, and
associations, and the nature of true and erroneous judgments,
assent, dissent, imagination, and memory.
Cor. II. It appears also to follow, from the foregoing account
of sleep, and the effect of heat, labour, pain, and opiates, in
disposing to it, that, in many cases of sleep, the medullary sub
stance tends to a subtle kind of inflammation, and is preserved
from it, and restored to its natural state and degree of heat, by
means of sleep sufficiently continued. Thus, in the access of
most fevers, the patient is listless and sleepy, the external senses,
muscles, and brain, being affected, in some respects, as by opiates.
If the patient sleep, the distemper is cut short ; but if the subtle
inflammation be so great as to prevent that, the distemper in
creases, and comes to its period in some other way, according to
the nature of the fever, and circumstances of the patient. In a
coma vigil it seems to me, that the approach of the opposite
sides of the ventricles excites such violent vibrations, on account
of the inflammation of the medullary substance, perhaps of these
sides particularly, as to awake the patient, and throw him into
great confusion and consternation. In a phrenzy, the medullary
substance itself seems to labour under an acute temporary in
flammation, the other parts having often no more than a due
heat, whereas, in the delirium of a fever, the medullary substance
only sympathizes with the other parts. If the inflammation of
the medullary substance be very subtle, moderate, and perma
nent, madness of some species ensues. And it seems to agree
very well with the theory here proposed, that in deliriums,
phrenzies, and some kinds of madness, the patient does not sleep
at all, or if he do, in a quiet manner, is freed from his distemper ;
and that, in other kinds of madness, and in cases of melancholy,
the sleep is very deep, and the patient extremely sluggish.
3G THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
SECT. II.
of Ideas, their generation and associations ; and of the
agreement of the doctrine of vibrations with the
phenomena of ideas.
Prop. VIII.—Sensations, by being often repeated, leave certain
Vestiges, Types, or Images, of themselves, which may be called,
Simple Ideas of Sensation.
I took notice in the Introduction, that those ideas which re
semble sensations were called ideas of sensation ; and also that
they might be called simple ideas, in respect of the intellectual
ones which are formed from them, and of whose very essence it
is to be complex. But the ideas of sensation are not entirely
simple, since they must consist of parts both co-existent and
successive, as the generating sensations themselves do.
Now, that the simple ideas of sensation are thus generated,
agreeably to the proposition, appears, because the most vivid
of these ideas are those where the corresponding sensations are
most vigorously impressed, or most frequently renewed ; whereas,
if the sensation be faint, or uncommon, the generated idea is also
faint in proportion, and, in extreme cases, evanescent and im
perceptible. The exact observance of the order of place in visible
ideas, and of the order of time in audible ones, may likewise
serve to shew, that these ideas are copies and offsprings of the
impressions made on the eye and ear, in which the same orders
were observed respectively. And though it happens, that trains
of visible and audible ideas are presented in sallies of the fancy,
and in dreams, in which the order of time and place ft different
from that of any former impressions, yet the small component
parts of these trains are copies of former impressions ; and reasons
may be given for the varieties of their compositions.
It is also to be observed, that this proposition bears a great
resemblance to the third ; and that, by this resemblance, they
somewhat Confirm and illustrate one another. According to the
third proposition, sensations remain for a short time after the
impression is removed ; and these remaining sensations grow
feebler and feebler, till they vanish. They are therefore, in
some part of their declension, of about the same strength with
ideas, and in their first state, are intermediate between sensations
and ideas. And it seems reasonable to expect, that, if a single
sensation can leave a perceptible effect, trace, or vestige, for a
short time, a sufficient repetition of a sensation may leave a
perceptible effect of the same kind, but of a more permanent
nature, i. e. an idea, which shall recur occasionally, at long
distances of time, from the impression of the corresponding
sensation, and vice versd. As to the occasions and causes, which
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 37
make ideas recur, they will be considered in the next proposition
but one.
The method of reasoning used in the last paragraph is farther
confirmed by the following circumstance; r*«. that both the
diminutive declining sensations, which remain for a short space
after the impressions of the objects cease, and the ideas, which
are the copies of such impressions, are far more distinct and vivid,
in respect of visible and audible impressions, than of any others.
To which it may be added, that, after travelling, hearing music,
&c. trains of vivid ideas are very apt to recur, which correspond
very exactly to the late impressions, and which are of an interme
diate nature between the remaining sensations of the third pro
position, in their greatest vigour, and the ideas mentioned in this.
The sensations of feeling, taste and smell, can scarce be said
to leave ideas, unless very indistinct and obscure ones. How
ever, as analogy leads one to suppose that these sensations may
leave traces of the same kind, though not in the same degree,
as those of sight and hearing ; so the readiness with which we
reconnoitre sensations of feeling, taste, and smell, that have been
often impressed, is an evidence that they do so ; and these
generated traces or dispositions of mind may be called the ideas
of feeling, taste, and smell. In sleep, when all our ideas are
magnified, those of feeling, taste, and smell, are often sufficiently
vivid and distinct ; and the same thing happens in some few cases
of vigilance.
Prop. IX.—Sensory Vibrations, by being often repeated, beget^\
in the medullary Substance of the Brain, a Disposition to
diminutive Vibrations, which may also be called Vibratiuncles,
and Miniatures, corresponding to themselves respectively.
This correspondence of the diminutive vibrations to the
original sensory ones, consists in this, that they agree in kind,
place, and line of direction ; and differ only in being more feeble,
*. e. in degree.
This proposition follows from the foregoing. For since sensa
tions, by being often repeated, beget ideas, it cannot but be
that those vibrations, which accompany sensations, should beget
something which may accompany ideas in like manner; and this
can be nothing but feebler vibrations, agreeing with the sensory
generating vibrations in kind, place, and line of direction.
Or thus: By the first proposition it appears, that some motion
must be excited in the medullary substance, during each sensa
tion ; by the fourth, this motion is determined to be a vibratory
one : since therefore some motion must also, by the second, be
excited in the medullary substance during the presence of each
idea, this motion cannot be any other than a vibratory one : else
how should it proceed from the original vibration attending the
sensation, in the same manner as the idea docs from the sensation
:3S THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
itself? It must also agree in kind, place, and line of direction,
with the generating vibration. A vibratory motion, which recurs
t times in a second, cannot beget a diminutive one that recurs
J t, or 2 t times ; nor one originally impressed on the region of
the brain corresponding to the auditory nerves, beget diminutive
vibrations in the region corresponding to the optic nerves ; and
so of the rest. The line of direction must likewise be the same
in the original and derivative vibrations. It remains therefore,
that each simple idea of sensation be attended by diminutive
vibrations of the same kind, place, and line of direction, with the
original vibrations attending the sensation itself : or, in the words
of the proposition, that sensory vibrations, by being frequently
repeated, beget a disposition to diminutive vibrations correspond
ing to themselves respectively. We may add, that the vibratory
nature of the motion which attends ideas, may be inferred from
the continuance of some ideas, visible ones for instance, in the
fancy for a few moments.
This proof of the present proposition from the foregoing
appears to be incontestable, admitting the fourth : however, it
will much establish and illustrate the doctrines of vibrations and
association, to deduce it directly, if we can, from the nature of
vibratory motions, and of an animal body; and not only from
the relation between sensations and ideas. Let us see, there
fore, what progress we can make in such an attempt.
First, then, if we admit vibrations of the medullary particles
at all, we must conceive, that some take place in the foetus in
utero, both on account of the warmth in which it lies, and of the
pulsation of those considerable arteries, which pass through the
medullary substance, and which consequently must compress
and agitate it upon every contraction of the heart. And these
vibrations are probably either uniform in kind and degree, if we
consider short spaces of time ; or, if long ones, increase in a slow
uniform manner, and that in degree only, as the foetus in utero
increases,in bulk and strength. They are also probably the same
in all the different regions of the medullary substance. Let
these vibrations be called the natural vibrations.
Secondly, As soon as the child is born, external objects act
upon it violently, and excite vibrations in the medullary sub
stance, which differ from the natural ones, and from each other,
in degree, kind, place, and line of direction. We may also
conceive that each region of the medullary substance has such
a texture as to receive, with the greatest facility, the several
specific vibrations, which the objects corresponding respectively
to these regions, i. e. to their nerves, are most disposed to excite.
Let these vibrations be, for the present, called preternatural ones,
in contradistinction to those which we just now called natural ones.
Thirdly, Representing now the natural vibrations by N, and
the preternatural ones, from various objects, by A, B, C, &c. let
us suppose the first object to impress the vibrations A, and then
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. ;)!)
to be removed. It is evident from the nature of vibratory
motions, that the medullary substance will not, immediately
upon the removal of this object, return to its natural state N,
but will remain, for a short space of time, in the preternatural
state A, and pass gradually from A to N. Suppose the same
object to be impressed again and again, for a sufficient number of
times, and it seems to follow, that the medullary substance will
be longer in passing from A to N, after the second impression
than after the first, after the third impression than second, &c.
till, at last, it will not return to its natural original state of
vibration N at all, but remain in the preternatural state A, after
the vibrations have fallen to a diminutive pitch, their kind and
place, or chief seat, and their line of directions, continuing the
same. This state may therefore be fitly denoted by a, and,
being now in the place of the natural state N, it will be kept up
by the heat of the medullary substance, and the pulsation of its
arteries. All this seems to follow from the above-mentioned
disposition of animal bodies to accommodate themselves to, and
continue in, almost any state that is often impressed; which is
evident from innumerable both common and medical observa
tions, whatever be determined concerning the manner of explain
ing and accounting for these facts. For the alterations which
habit, custom, frequent impression, &c. make in the small
constituent particles, can scarce be any thing besides alterations
of the distances, and mutual actions, of these particles ; and
these last alterations must alter the natural tendency to vibrate.
We must, however, here resume the supposition made in the
last paragraph, viz. that the several regions of the brain have
such a texture as disposes them to those specific vibrations,
which are to be impressed by the proper objects in the events of
life. And this will much facilitate and accelerate the transition
of the state -ZVinto a; since we are to suppose a predisposition
to the state A, or a.
It will somewhat illustrate and confirm this reasoning, to
remark, that musical strings always accommodate themselves to,
and lean towards the state into which they were last put. Thus
the tone of a musical string either rises or falls upon altering its
tension, according as the preceding tension was greater or less
than its present tension. Now the small component parts of a
musical string must recede from, and approach to, each other,
i. e. must oscillate lengthways, during every transverse oscillation
of the string. And this must arise from the mutual influences
of the component particles tending to their last superinduced
state. Let us suppose something analogous to this to take place
in the component molecules of the brain, the molecules of the
molecules, &c. and it will follow, that A may overpower N, and
a become the natural state. Now, since the human body is
composed of the same matter as the external world, it is
reasonable to expect, that its component particles should be
40 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
subjected to the same subtle laws. And the exquisite structure
of animal bodies in so many other respects, makes it easier to
conceive, that the organ of organs, viz. the medullary substance,
should be endued with a proper subtle ultimate structure, for
the purpose of retaining a state that is frequently impressed.
One may guess also, that it is better suited to this purpose
during its growth, i. e. in passing from infancy to adult age, than
afterwards ; as this would be very agreeable to the pha;nomena.
Fourthly, Suppose now the vibrations A,B, C,D,&c. belonging
to each of the senses, to be excited, and repeated in such order
and manner as usually happens to the new-born infant upon its
entrance into this new scene of things. It is evident, that these
will have a greater power to overrule the natural state N, than
the vibrations A from one single object could have : for A affected
only one region of the medullary substance primarily ; whereas
A, B, C, D, &c. affect all the regions primarily in their turn. It
is evident also, that the secondary vibrations, or those which are
propagated from the region of the medullary substance primarily
affected into the rest, will be overruled, in great measure, in each
region, by the primary vibrations peculiar to that region. Lastly,
It is evident, that of the vibrations which are excited in each
region, no one can prevail over all the rest, but each must leave an
effect, in proportion to its strength and frequency. We may
conceive, therefore, that each region of the medullary sub
stance will have a tendency generated in it to vibrate with
vibrations of the same frequency (but weaker in degree) as those
which the several appropriated objects impress upon it respec
tively ; and that diminutive vibrations resembling tbem will rise
in succession in each region. For each region may easily be
conceived to lean sometimes to the vibrations from one object,
sometimes to those from another, according to the strength,
frequency, and novelty of the impression, the then present dis
position of the nervous system, association (of which in the two
next propositions), and other such-like causes. And for the
same reason, as in every sense the idea of some one object of
that sense must prevail over all the rest, we may conclude, that
sometimes the ideas belonging to one sense, sometimes those
belonging to another, will prevail over the rest.
Or thus : Some vibrations there must always be in the medul
lary substance, on account of its heat, and the pulsation of the
arteries which pass through it. These cannot be the natural
ones N, because they will soon be overruled by the great force
and variety of impressions made on the new-born infant, which
must also dispose each region of the brain to lean to some or
other of those vibrations which are excited in it primarily.
Hence we may conceive, that a very complex set of vibrations,
arising from the mixture and combinations of degree, kind, place,
and line of direction, exists always in the medullary substance,
being kept up by its heat, and the pulsation of its arteries, when
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 41
other causes are wanting, almost in the same manner as in a
concert of music the air is agitated by vibrations of a very com
plex kind. But then, as in a concert, some one instrument
generally strikes the ear more than the rest, so of the complex
vibrations which exist in the medullary substance, some one part
will prevail over the rest, and present the corresponding idea to
the mind. Some region must be disposed, at each instant, to
vibrate stronger than the rest; and of the specific vibrations
which are generally impressed upon this region, some one will
have a more favourable concurrence of circumstances than the
rest. And thus it will follow, according to the terms of the
proposition, that sensory vibrations, by being sufficiently re
peated, will beget a disposition to miniature vibrations corres
ponding to them respectively ; or, using the appellations above
assumed, that A, B, C, &c. will beget a, b, c, &c.
If we allow the proof of this proposition thus deduced from
the nature of vibratory motions, and of an animal body, the
foregoing proposition will follow from it, and hold equally, in
respect of the senses of feeling, taste, and smell, as of sight and
hearing. Or, in other words, if we allow that original impressed
vibratory motions leave a tendency to miniature ones of the same
kind, place, and line of direction, it will follow, that sensations
must beget ideas, and that not only in the senses of sight and
hearing, where the ideas are sufficiently vivid and distinct, but in
the three others, since their sensations are also conveyed to the
mind by means of vibratory motions. We may also perhaps
discover hereafter, from the nature of vibratory motions, and of
the human brain, compared with the circumstances of life, why
the ideas of one sense are more vivid and distinct than those of
another.
Prop. X.—Any Sensations A, B, C, fyc. by being associated with
one another a sufficient Number of Times, get such a Power
over the corresponding Ideas a, b, c, fyc. that any one of the
Sensations A, when impressed alone, shall be able to excite in
the Mind, b, c, $-e. the Ideas of the rest.
Sensations may be said to be associated together, when
their impressions are either made precisely at the same instant of
time, or in the contiguous successive instants. We may there
fore distinguish association into two sorts, the synchronous, and
the successive.
<fThe influence of association over our ideas, opinions, and
affections, is so great and obvious, as scarcely to have escaped the
notice of any writer who has treated of these, though the word
association, in the particular sense here affixed to it, was first
brought into use by Mr. Locke. But all that has been delivered
by the ancients and moderns, concerning the power of habit,
custom, example, education, authority, party-prejudice, the
THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
manner of learning the manual and liberal arts, &c. goes upon
this doctrine as its foundation, and may be considered as the
detail of it, in various circumstances. I here begin with the
simplest case, and shall proceed to more and more complex ones
continually, till I have exhausted what has occurred to me upon
this subject.v>
This proposition, or first and simplest case of association, is
manifest from innumerable common observations. Thus, the
names, smells, tastes, and tangible qualities of natural bodies,
suggest their visible appearances to the fancy, i. e. excite their
visible ideas ; and, vice versd, their visible appearances impressed
on the eye raise up those powers of reconnoitring their names,
smells, tastes, and tangible qualities, which may not improperly
be called their ideas, as above noted ; and in some cases raise up
ideas, which may be compared with visible ones, in respect of
vividness. All which is plainly owing to the association of the
several sensible qualities of bodies with their names, and with
each other. It is remarkable, however, as being agreeable to
the superior vividness of visible and audible ideas, before taken
notice of, that the suggestion of the visible appearance from the
name is the most ready of any other ; and, next to this, that of
the name from the visible appearance ; in which last case, the
reality of the audible idea, when not evident to the fancy, may
be inferred from the ready pronunciation of the name. For it
will be shewn hereafter, that the audible idea is most commonly
a previous requisite to pronunciation. Other instances of the
power of association may be taken from compound visible and
audible impressions. Thus the sight of part of a large building
suggests the idea of the rest instantaneously; and the sound of
the words which begin a familiar sentence, brings the remaining
part to our memories in order, the association of the parts being
synchronous in the first case, and successive in the last.
It is to be observed, that, in successive associations, the power
of raising the ideas is only exerted according to the order in
which the association is made. Thus, if the impressions A, B, C,
be always made in the order of the alphabet, B impressed alone
will not raise a, but c only. Agreeably to which it is easy to
repeat familiar sentences in the order in which they always occur,
but impossible to do it readily in an inverted one. The reason
of this is, that the compound idea, c, 6, a, corresponds to the
compound sensation C, B, A; and therefore requires the im
pression of C, B, A, in the same manner as a, b, c, does that of
A, B, C. This will, however, be more evident, when we come
to consider the associations of vibratory motions, in the next
proposition.
It is also to be observed, that the power of association grows
feebler, as the number either of synchronous or successive im
pressions is increased, and does not extend, with due force, to
more than a small one, in the first and simplest cases. But, in
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 43
complex cases, or the associations of associations, of which the
memory, in its full extent, consists, the powers of the mind,
deducible from this source, will be found much greater than any
person, upon his first entrance on these inquiries, could well
imagine.
Prop. XI.—Any Vibrations, A, B, C, 8fc. by being associated
together a sufficient Number of Times, get such a Power over
a, b, c, &c. the corresponding Miniature Vibrations, that any
of the Vibrations A, when impressed alone, shall be able to
excite b, c, «yc. the Miniatures of the rest.
This proposition may be deduced from the foregoing, in the
same manner as the ninth has been from the eighth.
But it seems also deducible from the nature of vibrations, and
of an animal body. Let A and B be two vibrations, associated
synchronically. Now, it is evident, that the vibration A (for I
will, in this proposition, speak of A and B in the singular number,
for the sake of greater clearness) will, by endeavouring to diffuse
itself into those parts of the medullary substance which are
affected primarily by the vibration B, in some measure modify
and change B, so as to make B a little different from what it
would be, if impressed alone. For the same reasons the vibration
A will be a little affected, even in its primary seat, by the endea
vour of B to diffuse itself all over the medullary substance.
Suppose now the vibrations A and B to be impressed at the same
instant, for a thousand times ; it follows, from the ninth proposi
tion, that they will first overcome the disposition to the natural
vibrations N, and then leave a tendency to themselves, which will
now occupy the place of the original natural tendency to vibra
tions. When therefore the vibration A is impressed alone, it
cannot he entirely such as the object would excite of itself, but
must lean, even in its primary seat, to the modifications and
changes induced by B, during their thousand joint impressions ;
and therefore much more, in receding from this primary seat,
will it lean that way ; and when it comes to the seat of B, it will
excite iTs miniature a little modified and changed by itself.
Or thus: When A is impressed alone, some vibration must
take place in the primary seat of B, both on account of the heat
and pulsation of the arteries, and because A will endeavour to
diffuse itself over the whole medullary substance. This cannot
be that part of the natural vibrations N, which belongs to this
region, because it is supposed to be overruled already. It cannot
be that which A impressed alone would have propagated into this
xegion, because that has always hitherto been overruled, and
converted into B ; and therefore cannot have begotten a tendency
to itself. It cannot be any full vivid vibration, such as B, C, 1), &c.
belonging to this region, because all full vibrations require the
actual impression of an object upon the corresponding external
44 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
organ. And of miniature vibrations belonging to this region,
such as b, c, d, &c. it is evident, that b has the preference, since
A leans to it a little, even in its own primary 'seat, more and
more, in receding from this, and almost entirely, when it comes
to the primary seat of B. For the same reasons B impressed
alone will excite a ; and, in general, if A, B, C, &c. be vibrations
synchronically impressed on different regions of the medullary
substance, A impressed alone will at last excite b, c, &c. according
to the proposition.
If A and B be vibrations impressed successively, then will the
latter part of A, viz. that part which, according to the third and
fourth propositions, remains, after the impression of the object
ceases, be modified and altered by B, at the same time that it
will a little modify and alter it, till at last it be quite overpowered
by it, and end in it. It follows therefore, by a like method of
reasoning, that the successive impression of A and B, sufficiently
repeated, will so alter the medullary substance, as that when A
is impressed alone, its latter part shall not be such as the sole
impression of A requires, but lean towards B, and end in b at
last. But B will not excite a in a retrograde order; since, by
supposition, the latter part of B was not modified and altered
by A, but by some other vibration, such as C or D. And as B,
by being followed by C, may at last raise c ; so b, when raised
by A, in the method here proposed, may be also sufficient to
raise c ; inasmuch as the miniature c being a feeble motion, not
stronger, perhaps, than the natural vibrations N, requires only to
have its kind, place, and line of direction, determined by associa
tion, the heat and arterial pulsation conveying to it the requisite
degree ofstrength. And thus A impressed alone will raise b, c, &c.
in successive associations, as well as in synchronous ones, accord
ing to the proposition.
It seems also, that the influence of A may, in some degree,
reach through B to C; so that A of itself may have some effect
to raise c, as well as by means of b. However, it is evident, that
this chain must break off, at last, in long successions ; and that
sooner or later, according to the number and vigour of the re
peated impressions. The power of miniature vibrations to raise
other miniatures may, perhaps, be made clearer to mathematicians,
by hinting, that-the efficacy of any vibration to raise any other,
is not in the simple ratio of its vividness, but as some power
thereof less than unity ; for thus b may raise c, a weaker vibra
tion than b, c may raise d, &c. with more facility than if the
efficacy was in the simple ratio of the vividness, and yet so that
the series shall break off at last.
If the ninth proposition be allowed, we may prove this in
somewhat a shorter and easier manner, as follows. Since the
vibrations A and B are impressed together, they must, from the
diffusion necessary to' vibratory motions, run into one vibration ;
and consequently, after a number of impressions sufficiently
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 45
repeated, will leave a trace, or miniature, of themselves, as one
vibration, which will recur every now and then, from slight causes.
Much rather, therefore, may the part b of the compound minia
ture o + J recur, when the part A of the compound original
vibration A + B is impressed. ,'
And as the ninth proposition may be thus made to prove the
present, so it ought to be acknowledged and remarked here, that
unless the ninth be allowed, the present cannot be proved, or
that the power of association is founded upon, and necessarily
requires, the previous power of forming ideas, and miniature
vibrations. For ideas, and miniature vibrations, must first be
generated, according to the eighth and ninth propositions, before
they can be associated, according to the tenth and this eleventh.
But then (which is very remarkable) this power of forming ideas,
and their corresponding miniature vibrations, does equally pre
suppose the power of association. For since all sensations and
vibrations are infinitely divisible, in respect of time and place,
they could not leave any traces or images of themselves, i. e. any
ideas, or miniature vibrations, unless their infinitesimal parts did
cohere together through joint impression, i. e. association. Thus,
to mention a gross instance, we could have no proper idea of a
horse, unless the particular ideas of the head, neck, body, legs,
and tail, peculiar to this animal, stuck to each other in the fancy,
from frequent joint impression. And, therefore, in dreams,
where complex associations are much weakened, and various
parcels of visible ideas, not joined in nature, start up together in
the fancy, contiguous to each other, we often see monsters,
chimeras, and combinations, which have never been actually
presented.
Association seems also necessary to dispose the medullary
substance to this or that miniature vibration, in succession, after
the miniatures of a large number of original vibrations have been
generated.
Nor does there seem to be any precise limit which can be set
to this mutual dependence of the powers of generating minia
tures, and of association upon each other: however they may
both take place together, as the heart and brain are supposed
to do, or both depend upon one simple principle ; for it seems
impossible, that they should imply one another ad infinitum.
There is no greater difficulty here than in many other cases of
mutual indefinite implication, known and allowed by all. Nay,
one may almost deduce some presumption in favour of the hypo
thesis here produced, from this mutual indefinite implication of
its parts so agreeable to the tenor of nature in other things.
And it is certainly a presumption in its favour, that a less power
of generating miniatures will be a foundation for a larger of
association, and vice versa, till, at last, the whole superstructure
of ideas and associations observable in human life may, by pro
ceeding upwards according to analysis, and downwards according
THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
to synthesis, be built upon as small a foundation as we please.
Thus we may observe, that neither does this eleventh proposition
necessarily require the ninth, in its full extent, not vice versa,
for their demonstration. The least miniatures, with the feeblest
cohesions of their parts, will, by degrees, run into larger, with
stronger cohesions, from the same principles ; nor are there any
visible limits to the influence and extent of these powers,
supposing the natural faculties of the being under consideration
sufliciently extended.
Let me add, that the generation of sensible ideas from sensa
tions, and the power of raising them from association, when con
sidered as faculties of the mind, are evident and unquestionable.
Since therefore sensations are conveyed to the mind, by the
efficiency of corporeal causes of the medullary substance, as is
acknowledged by all physiologists and physicians, it seems to me,
that the powers of generating ideas, and raising them by asso
ciation, must also arise from corporeal causes, and consequently
admit of an explication from the subtle influences of the small
parts of matter upon each other, as soon as these are sufficiently
understood ; which is farther evinced from the manifest influences
of material causes upon our ideas ahd associations, taken notice
of under the second proposition. < And as a vibratory motion is
more suitable to the nature of sensation than any other species
of motion, so does it seem also more suitable to the powers of
generating ideas, and raising them by association. However,
these powers are evident independently, as just now observed ;
so that the doctrine of association may be laid down as a certain
foundation, and a clew to direct our future inquiries, whatever
becomes of that of vibrations. ,/
Prop. XII.—Simple Ideas will run into complex ones, by Means
of dissociation.
In order to explain and prove this proposition, it will be re
quisite to give some previous account of the manner in which
simple ideas of sensation may be associated together.
Case 1. Let the sensation A be often associated with each of
the sensations B, C, D, &c. *. e. at certain times with B, at cer
tain other times with C, &c. it is evident, from the tenth propo
sition, that A, impressed alone, will, at last, raise b, c, d, &c. all
together, *. e. associate them with one another, provided they
belong to different regions of the medullary substance ; for if any
two, or more, belong to the same region, since they cannot exist
together in their distinct forms, A will raise something inter
mediate between them.
Case 2. If the sensations A, B, C, D, &c. be associated toge
ther, according to various combinations of twos, or even threes,
fours, &c. then will A raise 6, c, d, &c. also B raise a, c, d, &c.
as in case the first.
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 17
It may happen, indeed, in both cases, that A may raise a par
ticular miniature, as b, preferably to any of the rest, from its
being more associated with B, from the novelty of the impression
of B, from a tendency in the medullary substance to favour b,
&c. and in like manner, that b may raise c or d preferably to
the rest. However, all this will be over-ruled, at last, by the
recurrency of the associations ; so that any one of the sensations
will excite the ideas of the rest at the same instant, i. e. associate
them together.
Case 3. Let A, B, C, D, &c. represent successive impressions,
it follows from the tenth and eleventh propositions, that A will
raise b, c, d, &c. B raise c, d, &c. And though the ideas do
not, in this case, rise precisely at the same instant, yet they
come nearer together than the sensations themselves did in their
original impression ; so that these ideas are associated almost
synchronically at last, and successively from the first. The ideas
come nearer to one another than the sensations, on account of
their diminutive nature, by which all that appertains to them is
contracted. And this seems to be as agreeable to observation as
to theory.
Case 4. All compound impressions A + B+ C+D, &c. after
sufficient repetition leave compound miniatures a + b + c + d, &c.
which recur every now and then from slight causes, as well such
as depend on association, as some which are different from it.
Now, in these recurrences of compound miniatures, the parts are
farther associated, and approach perpetually nearer to each other,
agTeeably to what was just now observed; *. e. the association
becomes perpetually more close and intimate.
Case 5. When the ideas a, b, c, d, &c. have been sufficiently
associated in any one or more of the foregoing ways, if we
suppose any single idea of these, a for instance, to be raised by
the tendency of the medullary substance that way, by the asso
ciation of A with a foreign sensation or idea X or x, &c. this
idea a, thus raised, will frequently bring in all the rest, b, c, d,
&c. and so associate all of them together still farther.
And upon the whole, it may appear to the reader, that the
simple ideas of sensation must run into clusters and combina
tions, by association ; and that each of these will, at last, coalesce
into one complex idea, by the approach and commixture of the
several compounding parts.
It appears also from observation, that many of our intellectual
ideas, such as those that belong to the heads of beauty, honour,
moral qualities, &c. are, in fact, thus composed of parts, which,
by degrees, coalesce into one complex idea.
And as this coalescence of simple ideas into complex ones is
thus evinced, both by the foregoing theory, and by observation,
so it may be illustrated, and farther confirmed, by the similar
coalescence of letters into syllables and words, in which associa
tion is likewise a chief instrument. I shall mention some of the
48 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
most remarkable particulars, relating to this coalescence of simple
ideas into complex ones, in the following corollaries.
Cor. I. If the number of simple ideas which compose the
complex one be very great, it may happen, that the complex
idea shall not appear to bear any relation to these its compound
ing parts, nor to the external senses upon which the original
sensations, which gave birth to the compounding ideas, were
impressed. The reason of this is, that each single idea is over
powered by the sum of all the rest, as soon as they are all
intimately united together. Thus in very compound medicines
the several tastes and flavours of the separate ingredients are
lost and overpowered by the complex one of the whole mass : so
that this has a taste and flavour of its own, which appears to bo
simple and original, and like that of a natural body. Thus also,
white is vulgarly thought to be the simplest and most uncom-
pounded of all colours, while yet it really arises from a certain
proportion of the seven primary colours, with their several shades
or degrees. And to resume the illustration above-mentioned,
taken from language, it does not at all appear to persons igno
rant of the arts of reading and writing, that the great variety of
complex words of languages can be analysed up to a few simple
sounds.
Cor. II. One may hope, therefore, that, by pursuing and
perfecting the doctrine of association, we may some time or
other be enabled to analyse all that vast variety of complex
ideas, which pass under the name of ideas of reflection, and
intellectual ideas, into their simple compounding parts, i.e. into
the simple ideas of sensation, of which they consist. This would
be greatly analogous to the arts of writing, and resolving the
colour of the sun's light, or natural bodies, into their primary
constituent ones. The complex ideas which I here speak of, are
generally excited by words, or visible objects ; but they are also
connected with other external impressions, and depend upon
them, as upon symbols. In whatever way we consider them,
the trains of them which are presented to the mind seem to
depend upon the then present state of the body, the external
impressions, and the remaining influence of prior impressions
and associations taken together.
Cor. III. It would afford great light and clearness to the art
of logic, thus to determine the precise nature and composition of
the ideas affixed to those words which have complex ideas, in a
proper sense, *. e. which excite any combinations of simple ideas
united intimately by association ; also to explain, upon this
foundation, the proper use of those words, which have no ideas.
For there are many words which are mere substitutes for other
words, and many which are only auxiliaries. Now it cannot be said,
that either of these have ideas, properly so called. And though
It may seem an infinite and impossible task, thus to analyse the
significations and uses of words, yet, I suppose, this would not
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 49
be more difficult, with the present philological and philosophical
helps to such a work, than the first making of dictionaries and
grammars, in the infancy of philology. Perhaps it may not be
amiss just to hint, in this place, that the four following classes
comprise all the possible kinds into which words can be distin
guished, agreeably to the plan here proposed :
1. Words which have ideas, but no definitions.
2. Words which have both ideas and definitions.
3. Words which have definitions, but no ideas.
4. Words which have neither ideas nor definitions.
It is quite manifest, that words seen or heard, can raise no
ideas in the mind, or vibrations in the brain, distinct from
their visible and audible impressions, except as far as they get
new powers from associations, either incidental ones or arising
from express design, as in definitions ; and therefore, that all
other ways of considering words, besides what is here suggested,
are either false or imperfect.
Cor. IV. As simple ideas run into complex ones by associa
tion, so complex ideas run into decomplex ones by the same.
But here the varieties of the associations, which increase with
tbe complexity, hinder particular ones from being so close and
permanent, between the complex parts of decomplex ideas, as
between the simple parts of complex ones : to which it is
analogous, in languages, that the letters of words adhere closer
together than the words of sentences, both in writing and
speaking.
Cor. V. The simple ideas of sensation are not all equally and
uniformly concerned in forming complex and decomplex ideas ;
i. e. these do not result from all the possible combinations of twos,
threes, fours, &c. of all the simple ideas ; but, on the contrary,
some simple ideas occur in the complex and decomplex ones
much oftener than others ; and the same holds of particular
combinations by twos, threes, &c. and innumerable combinations
never occur at all in real life, and, consequently, are never asso
ciated into complex or decomplex ideas. All which corresponds
to what happens in real languages ; some letters, and combina
tions of letters, occur much more frequently than others, and
some combinations never occur at all.
Cor. VI. As persons who speak the same language have,
however, a different use and extent of words, so, though man
kind, in all ages and nations, agree, in general, in their complex
and decomplex ideas, yet there are many particular differences
in them ; and these differences are greater or less, according to
the difference, or resemblance, in age, constitution, education,
profession, country, age of the world, &c. i. e. in their im
pressions and associations.
Cor. VII. When a variety of ideas are associated together,
the visible idea, being more glaring and distinct than the rest,
performs the office of- a symbol to all the rest, suggests them,
E
50 THE DOCTRINE OF VIBRATIONS
and connects them together. In this it somewhat resembles the
first letter of a word, or first word of a sentence, which are often
made use of to bring all the rest to mind.
Cor. VIII. When objects and ideas, with their most common
combinations, have been often presented to the mind, a train of
them, of a considerable length, may, by once occurring, leave
such a trace, as to recur in imagination, and in miniature, in
nearly the same order and proportion as in this single occurrence.
For, since each of the particular impressions and ideas is familiar,
there will want little more for their recurrency, than a few
connecting links ; and even these may be, in some measure,
supplied by former similar instances. These considerations,
when duly unfolded, seem to me sufficient to explain the chief
phaenomena of memory; and it will be easily seen from them,
that the memory of adults, and masters in any science, ought
to be much more ready and certain than that of children and
novices, as it is found to be in fact.
Cor. IX. When the pleasure or pain attending any sensations
- and ideas is great, all the associations belonging to them are
much accelerated and strengthened. For the violent vibrations
excited in such cases, soon overrule the natural vibrations, and
leave in the brain a strong tendency to themselves, from a few
impressions. The associations will therefore be cemented sooner
and stronger than in common cases ; which is found agreeable to
the fact.
Cor. X. As many words have complex ideas annexed to
them, so sentences, which are collections of words, have collec
tions of complex ideas, i. e. have decomplex ideas. And it
happens, in most cases, that the decomplex idea belonging to
any sentence is not compounded merely of the complex ideas
belonging to the words of it ; but that there are also many
variations, some oppositions, and numberless additions. Thus,
propositions, in particular, excite, as soon as heard, assent or
dissent ; which assent and dissent consist chiefly of additional
complex ideas, not included in the terms of the proposition.
And it would be of the greatest use, both in the sciences and in
common life, thoroughly to analyse the matter, to shew in what
manner, and by what steps, *. e. by what impressions and asso
ciations, our assent and dissent, both in scientifical and moral
subjects, is formed.
Prop. XIII. When simple Ideas run into a complex one, ac
cording to the foregoing Proposition, we are to suppose, that
the simple miniature Vibrations corresponding to those simple
Ideas, run in like manner, into a complex miniature Vibration,
corresponding to the resulting complex Idea.
This proposition is analogous to the ninth and eleventh, and
may be deduced from the last, as they are from the eighth and
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 51
tenth respectively. It is also an evidence and illustration of the
second ; shewing, not only that the state of the medullary sub
stance is changed, according to the several natures of the ideas
-which are presented to the mind; but also shewing, in general,
of what kind this change is, and in what manner it is effected.
Prop. 3tlV. It is reasonable to think, that some of the complex
Vibrations attending upon complex Ideas, according to the last
Proposition, may be as vivid as any of the sensory Vibrations
excited by the direct Action of Objects.
For these complex vibrations may consist of so many parts
co-existent and successive, and these parts may so alter and
exalt one another, as that the resulting agitations in the medul
lary substance may no longer be miniature vibrations, but vivid
ones equal to those excited by objects impressed on the senses.
This process may be farther favoured by a mixture of vivid real
impressions among the ideas, by the irritability of the medullary
substance, by a previous disposition to the vibrations to be
excited, &c.
Cor. I. When the complex miniature vibrations are thus
exalted in degree, we are to conceive, that the corresponding
complex ideas are proportionally exalted, and so pass into intel
lectual affections and passions. We are therefore to deduce the
origin of the intellectual pleasures and pains, which are the
objects of these affections and passions, from the source here
laid open.
Cor. II. Since the present proposition unfolds the nature of
affections and will, in the same manner, and from the same
principles, as the twelfth does that of ideas, intellect, memory,
and fancy ; it follows, that all these are of the same original and
consideration, and differ only in degree, or some accidental circum
stances. They are all deducible from the external impressions
made upon the senses, the vestiges or ideas of these, and their
mutual connexions by means of association, taken together and
operating on one another.
Cor. III. It follows also from this proposition, that the intel
lectual pleasures and pains may be greater, equal, or less, than
the sensible ones, according as each person unites more or fewer,
more vivid or more languid, miniature vibrations in the formation
of his intellectual pleasures and pains, &c.
Cor. IV. It is evident, that all the vibrations which belong to
ideas, and intellectual affections, must reside in the brain, or
even in the most internal parts of it, not in the spinal marrow or
nerves. The brain is therefore the seat of the rational soul, i. e.
of the soul, as far as it is influenced by reasons and moral
motives, even though we should admit, that the spinal marrow
and nerves, arc, in part, the sensorium, or the seat of the sensi
tive soul; which is some argument, that this ought not to be
r>2 THE DOCTKINES OF VIBRATIONS
admitted, but that the sensorium, in men at least, ought to be
placed in the internal parts of the brain.
Cor, V. It is of the utmost consequence to morality and
religion, that the affections and passions should be analysed into
their simple compounding parts, by reversing the steps of the
associations which concur to form them. For thus we may learn
how to cherish and improve good ones, check and root out such
as are mischievous and immoral, and how suit our manner of
life, in some tolerable measure, to our intellectual and religious
wants. And as this holds, in respect of persons of all ages, so it
is particularly true, and worthy of consideration, in respect of
children and youth. The world is, indeed, sufficiently stocked
with general precepts for this purpose, grounded on experience ;
and whosoever will follow these faithfully, may expect good
general success. However, the doctrine of association, when
traced up to the first rudiments of understanding and affection,
unfolds such a scene as cannot fail both to instruct and alarm all
such as have any degree of interested concern for themselves, or
of a benevolent one for others. It ought to be added here, that
the. doctrine of association explains also the rise and progress of
those voluntary and semi-voluntary powers, which we exert over
our ideas, affections, and bodily motions (as I shall shew here
after, Prop. XXI.) and by doing this, teaches us how to regulate
and improve these powers.
Cor. VI. If beings of the same nature, but whose affections
and passions are, at present, in different proportions to each
other, be exposed for an indefinite time to the same impressions
and associations, all their particular differences will, at last, be
overruled, and they will become perfectly similar, or even equal.
They may also be made perfectly similar, in a finite time, by a
proper adjustment of the impressions and associations.
Cor. VII. Our original bodily make, and the impressions and
associations which affect us in passing through life, are so much
alike, and yet not the same, that there must be both a great
general resemblance amongst mankind, in respect to their intel
lectual affections, and also many particular differences.
Cor. VIII. Some degree of spirituality is the necessary con
sequence of passing through life. The sensible pleasures and
pains must be transferred by association more and more every
day, upon things that afford neither sensible pleasure nor sen
sible pain in themselves, and so beget the intellectual pleasures
and pains.
Cor. IX. Let the letters a, b, c, d, e, &c. represent the sensible
pleasures ; x, y, and z, the sensible pains, supposed to be only
three in number ; and let us suppose all these, both pleasures
and pains, to be equal to one another : If now the ideas of these
sensible pleasures and pains be associated together, according to
all the possible varieties, in order to form intellectual pleasures
and pains, it is plain, that pleasure must prevail in all the
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL.
combinations of seven or more letters ; and also, that when the
several parts of these complex pleasures are sufficiently united
by association, the pains which enter their composition will no
longer be distinguished separately, but the resulting mixed and
complex pleasures appear to be pure and simple ones, equal in
quantity to the excess of pleasure above pain, in each combina
tion. Thus association would convert a state in which pleasure
and pain were both perceived by turns, into one in which pure
pleasure alone would be perceived; at least, would cause ihe
beings who were under its influence to an indefinite degree, to
approach to this last state nearer than by any definite difference.
Or, in other words, association, under the supposition of this
corollary, has a tendency to reduce the state of those who have
eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, back again to
a paradisiacal one. Now, though the circumstances of mankind
are not the same with those supposed in this corollary, yet they
bear a remarkable resemblance thereto, during that part of our
existence which is exposed to our observation. For our sensible
pleasures are far more numerous than our sensible pains ; and
though the pains be, in general, greater than the pleasures, yet
the sum total of these seems to be greater than that of those ;
whence the remainder, after the destruction of the pains by the
opposite and equal pleasures, will be pure pleasure.
Cor. X. The intellectual pleasures and pains are as real as
the sensible ones, being, as we have seen, nothing but the sensible
ones variously mixed and compounded together. The intellec
tual pleasures and pains are also all equally of a factitious and
acquired nature. We must therefore estimate all our pleasures -
equally, by their magnitude, permanency, and tendency to
procure others ; and our pains in like manner.
Cor. XI. The sensible pleasures and pains have a greater
tendency to destroy the body, than the intellectual ones ; for
they are of a particular local nature, and" so bear hard upon the
organs which convey them. But the destruction of any one
considerable part of the body is the destruction of the whole,
from the sympathy of the parts ; whereas the intellectual plea
sures and pains, being collected from all quarters, do not much
injure any organ particularly, but rather bring on an equable
gradual decay of the whole medullary substance, and all the parts
thereon depending.
Cor. XII. This proposition, and its corollaries, afford some
pleasing presumptions ; such are, that we have a power of suiting
our frame of mind to our circumstances, of correcting what is
amiss, and improving what is right : that our ultimate happiness
appears to be of a spiritual, not corporeal nature ; and therefore
that death, or the shaking off the gross body, may not stop our
progress, but rather render us more expedite in the pursuit of
our true end : that association tends to make us all ultimately
similar; so that if one be happy, all must: and lastly, that the
54 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
same association may also be shewn to contribute to introduce
pure ultimate spiritual happiness, in all, by a direct argument,
as well as by the just-mentioned indirect one.
SECT. III.
OF MUSCULAR MOTION, AND ITS TWO KINDS, AUTOMATIC AND
VOLUNTARY; AND OF THE USE OF THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRA
TIONS AND ASSOCIATION, FOR EXPLAINING THESE RESPEC
TIVELY.
Prop. XV.—It is probable, that muscular Motion is performed in
the same general Manner as Sensation, and the Perception of
Ideas.
For first, Sensation, the perception of ideas, and a locomotive
faculty, i. e. muscular motion, are the three most eminent marks
of distinction between the animal and vegetable world: there
fore, since it is already found that the two first are performed by
the same means, i. e. vibrations, there is some presumption that
the last will not require a different one.
Secondly, Of the two sorts of motion, viz. automatic and
voluntary, the first depends upon sensation, the last upon ideas,
as I shall shew particularly hereafter, and may appear, in general,
to any one, upon a slight attention ; whence it follows, that
sensation, and automatic motion, must be performed in the same
general manner, also the perception of ideas, and voluntary
motion : and therefore, since sensation and perception, the two
antecedents, agree in their causes, automatic and voluntary
motion, the two consequents, i. e. all the four, must likewise.
Thirdly, It appears from the first and second propositions, that
the white medullary substance is the common instrument of
sensation, ideas, and motion ; and by the fifth, that this substance
is uniform and continuous every where. Hence it follows, that
the subtle motions excited in the sensory nerves and medullary
substance of the brain, during sensation and intellectual percep
tion, must, of whatever kind they be, pass into the motory nerves ;
and when they are arrived there, it is probable that they must
cause the contraction of the muscles, both because otherwise
their arrival at the motory nerves would be superfluous, and
because some such subtle motions are required for this purpose.
Cor. I. All arguments, therefore, which prove the performance
of sensation and intellectual perception, by means of vibrations of
the small medullary particles, must infer, that muscular motion
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 53
is performed by vibrations also. And conversely, if vibrations
can be shown to take place in muscular motion, they must also
be instrumental in sensation and intellectual perception.
Cor. II. There are certain experiments and observations
which favour the supposition of the performance of muscular
motion by subtle agitations in the small particles of the muscular
fibres, i. e. by vibratory motions. It follows therefore, that these
experiments and observations are some additional evidence for
the existence of sensory and ideal vibrations, as above explained.
Such are, that the motion of the heart, and of other muscles, may
be renewed in dying animals, and those that are newly dead, by
heat, injection of a fluid, and punctures, it being easy to be
conceived, that the two last causes should put the particles of
the fibres into agitations for a short time, i. e. till they can
recover their equilibrium, by altering their distances, and mutual
actions : and the first cause, i. e. heat, is, by the common consent
of all, judged to consist in, and to cause, subtle vibratory
motions. It is also difficult to assign any other action which
these causes can have. In like manner, the alternate contrac
tions and relaxations of the hearts of frogs, vipers, and some
other animals, which continue for long spaces of time after these
have been entirely separated from their bodies, seem utterly
inexplicable upon any of the common suppositions, but follow
easily from the doctrine of vibrations, as it is applied to muscular
motion, in the two next propositions.
Cor. III. Since the same motion which occasions sensation,
and intellectual perception, passes through the seats of these into
the motory nerves, in order to excite there the automatic and
voluntary motions, thus pervading the whole medullary substance,
in various ways, according to the variety of the circumstances,
but in all with the greatest precision and exactness ; it follows,
that this must be a vibratory one, and that of the most subtle
kind. For the same excess of softness, which renders the
medullary substance totally inelastic as to sense, and conse
quently unfit for the grosser vibrations of the particles of the
first or largest order (by the vibrations of which, in sono
rous bodies, it seems that sound is excited in the air), may
render it more susceptible of vibrations, in the particles of the
second, third, &c. orders ; and if we suppose a proper ulti
mate structure in the several parts of the medullary substance,
these vibrations may be conveyed with all that precision and
variety which the phaenomena require. And unless we do
suppose some such subtle vibrations as these, it will be extremely
difficult to conceive, how so soft a pulp as the medullary sub
stance is, should be the common instrument of sensation, thought,
and motion; which yet all physicians and philosophers must
allow, according to the first and second propositions. If we set
aside subtle vibratory motions, the impulse of the objects of
sense can communicate nothing, as it seems, to so soft a
66 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
substance, but an uniform pressure, susceptible of few or no modi
fications, and consequently highly unsuitable to the great variety
of the phaenomena that are to be solved by it. This argument
therefore tends to shew, that sensation, thought, and motion,
must all be performed by vibrations.
Prop. XVI.—The Phcenomena of muscular Contraction appear
to be sufficiently agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
In order to shew this, let us make the following suppositions :
First, That vibrations descend along the motory nerves, i. e.
the nerves which go to the muscles, in some such manner as
sound runs along the surfaces of rivers, or an electrical virtue
along hempen strings.
Secondly, that these vibrations, when they arrive at the
muscular fibres, are communicated to them, so that the small
particles of these fibres shall be agitated with like vibrations.
Thirdly, That the vibrations thus excited in the fibres, put
into action an attractive virtue, perhaps of the electrical kind,
which lies concealed in the particles of the fibres, or in the
blood-globules, or both. That the blood-globules of animals are
electrical, may be conjectured from the electricity of those of the
muscle-shell fish, observed by Dr. Hales ; and that the red blood
lias a principal share in muscular contraction is highly probable,
from the red colour of all the great muscles of the body, and
from the weakness of all young animals, and of such as want a
due share of red blood. At the same time, it appears from
exanguious and transparent animals, that pale fibres, and colourr
less fluids, have all the necessary requisites for muscular con
traction, in certain degrees.
Fourthly, We must now suppose, in consequence of the three
foregoing suppositions, that each muscular fibre, and consequently
the whole muscle, is made shorter by this increase of attraction
in its particles; whilst yet their approach to each other is so
small, as that the whole bulk of the muscle is but little dimi
nished ; for though the length of the muscle is lessened, its other
dimensions are increased.
Fifthly, If we suppose the small ultimate fibres of the muscles
to bend alternately to the right and left as an eel does, at ex
ceedingly short intervals, agreeably to Dr. Lower, this may some
what assist us to conceive in what manner a muscle may be
shortened, and yet so increased in breadth and thickness, as to
remain of nearly the same dimensions. For if these flexures be
increased by the increase of the attraction of the parts, the whole
muscle will become shorter and thicker, as it is found to be in
contraction ; and conversely, when the flexures are drawn out,
the muscle will be longer and thinner, i. e. in a state of relaxa
tion. The small wrinkles which have been observed in the
muscular fibres, by Leeuwenhoek, and others, the wavings and
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 57
curls which frequently appear to the eye in muscles, after boiling
or roasting, and the rhomboidal pinnulae taken notice of by Dr.
Hales in the abdominal muscles of a living frog, when under
contraction, all seem to favour this fifth supposition.
Dr. Pemberton conjectures, that the cause of the contraction
of muscular fibres is no other than the common cause of the
cohesion of the small particles of the muscular fibres increased.
And this seems very probable ; for the muscles are hard during
contraction, soft during relaxation ; and hardness and softness
are evidently nothing but variations in the cohesion of the small
particles of bodies. Neither is this conjecture at all repugnant
to the supposition of an electrical attraction above made, or to
the doctrine of vibrations ; for electricity may reach to small dis
tances, without being excited by friction, and flow from the same
principle as the cohesion of bodies, as Sir Isaac Newton has ob
served. It may therefore be the general cause of cohesion, and
may be excited in the muscular fibres in an extraordinary degree,
whenever extraordinary vibrations are communicated to them.
Or, if we suppose the cause of cohesion to be something distinct
from electricity, it may, however, be increased by vibrations of
the small cohering particles.
Prop. XVII.—That Propensity to alternate Contraction and
Relaxation, which is observed in almost all the Muscles of the
Body, admits of a Solution from the Doctrine of Vibrations.
For, when the fibres are in a state of contraction, they are
hard ; and this hardness, if it be supposed to extend to the small
particles (which is no unreasonable supposition), must render the
particles of these particles, *. e. the particles supposed in these
propositions to be agitated with vibrations, indisposed to receive
these vibrations ; but the free admission of these vibrations is by
supposition the cause which excites the attractions of the par
ticles, and the consequent contraction of the muscle. It follows
therefore, that the hardness which impedes these vibrations, must
also lessen the attraction and contraction ; or, in other words,
that the contraction of a muscle, when carried to a certain degree,
must check itself, and bring on a relaxation, after a time sufli-
cient for the proper causes to take effect.
In like manner, when a muscle is relaxed, the vibrations which
descend along the motory nerves pass freely into the muscular
fibres, increase the attractions of the particles, and bring on the
opposite state, that of contraction ; and so on alternately.
The fibres of the relaxed muscle may also be considered as
under a state of distention to a certain degree, and, consequently,
as liable to an increase of vibrations upon this account. To
which we may farther add, that since vibrations are hindered
from passing into the contracted muscle, in the manner just now
explained, they will pass with greater force into the relaxed
58 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
one, from the place of the common derivation of their nerves,
wherever there are antagonist muscles that derive nerves from
the same trunk, as in the limbs, and muscles of respiration.
Cor. It appears from this method of considering the con
tractions and relaxations of muscles, that there is a certain degree
of hardness or contraction in muscular fibres, which may be sup
posed just to balance each degree of force with which vibrations
descend into the muscular fibres ; and that while this equilibrium
subsists, the contraction can neither be increased nor abated.
Prop. XVIII.—The Vibrations, of which an Account has been
given in this Chapter, may be supposed to afford a sufficient
Supply of motory Vibrations, for the purpose of contracting the
Muscles.
In order to make this appear, it will be proper to distinguish
the motory vibrations, or those which descend along the nerves
of the muscles into their fibres, into the five following classes :
First, then, We are to conceive, that those sensory vibrations
which are excited in the external organs, and ascend towards the
brain, when they arrive, in their ascent, at the origins of motory
nerves, as they arise from the same common trunk, plexus, or
ganglion, with the sensory ones affected, detach a part of them
selves at each of these origins down the motory nerves; which
part, by agitating the small particles of the muscular fibres, in
the manner explained in the sixteenth proposition, excites them
to contraction.
Secondly, The remainder of the sensory vibrations, which
arrives at the brain, not being detached down the motory nerves
in its ascent thither, must be diffused over the whole medullary
substance. It will therefore descend from the brain into the
whole system of motory nerves, and excite some feeble vibrations,
at least, in them. The same may be observed of ideal vibrations,
generated in the brain by association ; these must pervade the
whole medullary substance, and, consequently, affect all the
motory nerves in some degree.
Thirdly, The heat of the blood and pulsation of the arteries,
which pass through the medullary substance, must always excite,
or keep up, some vibrations in it ; and these must always descend
into the whole system of muscles. And I apprehend, that, from
these two last sources taken together, we may account for that
moderate degree of contraction, or tendency thereto, which is
observable in all the muscles, at least in all those of healthy
adults, during vigilance.
Fourthly, When vivid vibrations are excited in membranes of
an uniform texture, by a stimulus of any kind, they seem to run
over the whole extent of such membranes, and by this means to
have a great influence in contracting all the muscles that lie near
any part of this membrane, though they be remote fiom the
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 59
place of the stimulus. The manner in which this is effected, I
conceive to be as follows :—The repeated or continued action of
the stimulus diffuses vibrations from the place of its action over
the whole membrane, which, by their reciprocal influences, be
come equal, or nearly so, in every' part of it, and are, at last, so
exalted, as to contract every part. As soon as this contraction
takes place, the vibrations in its small particles must cease, for
reasons given above. They will therefore be propagated almost
instantaneously over the neighbouring muscles, from the nervous
communications between the membrane and the neighbouring
muscles ; by which all changes made in the nerves of the mem
brane must affect those of the neighbouring muscles. As there
fore during the vivid vibrations of the particles of the membrane,
we must suppose some to be propagated into the neighbouring
muscles, agreeably to the first article of this proposition, so upon
their sudden cessation, such a change may reasonably be sup
posed, in the communicating nervous fibrils, as shall agitate the
aHher contained in them with much more vivid vibrations than
before; and these vibrations must now pass into the muscles
alone, since the contraction of the membrane hinders them from
returning into it. I shall hereafter produce several examples
of this process, in detail. It may suffice, at present, just to
mention the action of sneezing, and to desire the reader to com
pare this action, in a cursory way, with the foregoing account.
Fifthly, I have, in the last article, shewn how a cessation of
vibrations in the particles of a membrane may increase those in
the neighbouring muscles. But it seems also, that a cessation of
vibrations in any other considerable part of the body, from what
ever cause it proceeds, has a like tendency ; and that this tendency
is deducible from the change made in the nerves of the part
affected, and thence propagated into the communicating branches,
or even into the whole medullary substance. The yawnings and
stretchings of persons disposed to sleep, the convulsive respiration
of those that are just fallen asleep, and the convulsive motions
which attend the extinction of the senses in epileptic fits, and
the near approaches of death, may be derived, perhaps, in part,
from this source, in part from some of the foregoing.
Prop. XIX.—The automatic Motion seems to admit of a com
modious Explanation from the three last Propositions taken
together.
The particular detail of this obscure and intricate matter will
be attempted in the proper places of the next chapter, which
will contain the application of the general positions concerning
sensation and motion, in this, to each of the most remarkable
phaenomena, considered separately. I will, however, present the
reader here with a short sketch, to enable him to form some
notion of the manner and plausibility of the attempt.
60 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
The ordinary motions of the heart appear to arise from the
second and third classes of motory vibrations, mentioned in the
last proposition ; and it is remarkable, that its motions are found
to be, in general, and cceteris paribus, stronger or weaker, as the
sum total of these two classes is greater or less. The systole
and diastole succeed each other, from the causes assigned in the
seventeenth proposition. We are to conceive, however, that
both the influx of the venal blood into the ventricles, and of the
arterial into the coronary vessels, have a considerable share in
bringing on the systole, in the way of distention and irritation.
May we not conjecture, from that experiment of Dr. Hook's,
in which he kept a dog alive, by a mere continued stream of fresh
air passing through the lungs, without any such alternate motion
of the chest as takes place in common respiration, that one prin
cipal use of the air, which is an electric per se, in respiration, is
to restore to the blood, as it passes through the lungs, that
electricity which it has lost in circulating through the body ?
For, upon this supposition, the blood which arrives at the left
ventricle, will, in cessations of respiration, and also where foul
air is respired, want its due electricity; whence, according to
Prop. XVI. the muscles, and especially the heart, will want one
of the principal requisites for contraction. However, convulsive
motions may ensue after a syncope, from the fifth class of motory
vibrations.
It is remarkable here, that the hearts of frogs, vipers, and
several other such animals, as can live in great degrees of cold,
and without respiration, continue to beat, as has been taken
notice of above, for a long time after they are taken out of their
bodies. We must therefore suppose, that the fibres of their
hearts, and the blood globules which remain in them, are endued
with an electric, or other attractive virtue, of a more durable
kind than the fibres and blood globules of the more perfect
animals ; also, that this virtue may be put into action by a less
degree of heat. All which is very agreeable to the other cir
cumstances of their economy.
Respiration and crying are excited in the new-born child from
the cold handling of the midwife, and other vivid sensations im
pressed immediately upon its coming into the world. These vivid
sensations put the whole system of muscles, or at least those of
the trunk and larynx, into action at once, as far as their mutual
antagonism will permit, the stronger set of conspiring muscles
overpowering the weaker for a certain short time, and then, after
their force is exhausted, according to Prop. XVII. giving way for
a shorter time to the weaker. But this alternate action of the
muscles of the trunk and larynx will be an imperfect kind of
respiration, with crying, as may be easily seen from the disposi
tion of the muscles. Respiration is afterwards kept up, partly
by the propensity of the muscles to alternate action, explained
Prop.XVI L; partly, perhaps, by the power of habit, i. e. association;
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 61
partly by the renewal of vivid impressions ; and partly, as it
seems, by vibrations excited in the pleura and peritonaeum, and
thence communicated to the diaphragm, and to the muscles of
the breast and belly.
That the last cause has a real efficacy, may appear from the
following instance :—Let respiration be supposed to be at a stand
for a small time, on account of the person's running, or exerting
an act of great strength. It is evident, that the blood will both
be accumulated in the lungs, and heated there, during this in
terruption of respiration, since respiration both ventilates the
blood, and promotes its motion through the lungs. The external
membrane of the lungs will therefore be both distended and
heated, i. e. will have an increase of vibrations communicated to
it. But this membrane is continuous to the pleura, and, indeed,
is the same membrane with it. An increase of vibrations will
therefore be communicated to the pleura, and consequently to
the diaphragm, and muscles of the breast, which it invests.
The peristaltic motion of the intestines is, in part, to be
deduced from the second and third classes of motory vibrations,
in the same manner as the motion of the heart, since that motion,
like this, returns at intervals incessantly. And there is reason
to believe, that vigorous vibrations, either of the sensory or ideal
kind, impart an extraordinary degree of activity to the stomach
and bowels. However, they derive also a great part of their
motions, probably the major part, from the impressions which the
aliment, bile, and faeces, make upon the villous coat ; the vibra
tions excited by these impressions both running directly into the
muscular coat, for the purpose of contracting that part which
adjoins to the seat of impression, and also running upwards and
downwards along the villous coat, so as to exert some efficacy at
a distance from this seat.
It is very remarkable, that the pale fibres of the intestines, in
men, and many other animals, preserve their power of alternate
contraction and relaxation for a considerable time after death,
whereas the red fleshy muscles of the same animals lose theirs
soon after the effusion of their blood. It is a phaenomenon of a
like kind with this, that the whole muscular system of some
animals that are exanguious, or nearly so, retain their activity
for a considerable time after these animals are cut into pieces.
And both may serve to intimate that the electricity, or other
attractive virtue, of pale fibres and fluids, at the same time that
it is feebler than that of red ones, is however, of a more durable
kind, and, as was observed above of the hearts of frogs and vipers,
capable of being put into action by a less degree of heat.
The actions of sneezing, swallowing, coughing, hiccoughing,
vomiting, and expelling the faeces and urine, with others of a like
nature, are to be deduced from the first and fourth classes of
motory vibrations; i.e. either from those vibrations which first
ascend up the sensory nerves, and then are detached down the
THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
motory nerves, which communicate with these by some common
trunk, plexus, or ganglion, or else from those vibrations that run
along the surfaces of uniform membranes, and so affect all the
muscles which lie contiguous to any part of these membranes.
It is a strong argument in favour of the hypothesis here delivered,
that all the above-mentioned motions arise in the neighbourhood
of vivid sensations, increase when they increase, and languish
when they languish.
In examining this hypothesis by the actions of sneezing,
swallowing, and coughing, regard must be had to the nose,
uvula, and epiglottis, respectively, as being extreme and pointed
parts, and consequently liable to be affected with extraordinary
vibrations, agreeably to the ninth phaenomenon of the sixth
proposition.
In like manner, the numerous plexuses and ganglions of the
eight pair of nerves and intercostal nerve must have great in
fluence in the motions and functions of the parts contained in the
thorax and belly.
As the motory vibrations of the second and third classes are of
a gentle kind, for the most part, and descend constantly into the
whole system of the muscles, it may be expected, that young
children should move all their limbs at times, with some irregular
kind of succession, from this cause. And this seems to be the
fact. Strong contractions of the limbs are often excited by
frictions, gripes, and other vivid sensations ; but then the motory
vibrations here are those of the first and fourth classes. General
convulsions, from acidities, and other irritations in the bowels,
seem to be excited in the same way, the intercostal nerve serving
to communicate the vibrations with more readiness to the muscles
of the trunk and limbs.
It appears to me also, that the intercostal nerve, which makes
those of each side a separate system, as it were, has some share
in determining hemiplegias to one side. In like manner, the
great brachial and crural ganglions make all the nerves of the
same limb sympathize with one another.
Whether the nerves of the same names throughout the body
have not some sympathetic influences over each other, may be
doubted. If those of the right side arise from the left part of the
brain, and vice versd, which seems to be the opinion of the best
anatomists, then one would imagine, that the homonymous nerves
of the right and left sides must, in crossing over, lie somewhere
contiguous to each other, and so impart vibrations to each other.
And there seem to be some facts from whence this may be in
ferred ; but we cannot expect to be able to distinguish, with
certainty, so feeble an influence, amidst so many others that are
far stronger.
Yawning and stretching may, perhaps, when considered in all
their circumstances, take in all the five classes of motory vibra
tions. When they happen in the attacks of fever-fits, and other
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. (J3
morbid cases, the first seems to be owing to pretty sudden and
strong contractions in the membrane of the mouth, fauces,
aspera arteria, and oesophagus; the last to contractions in the
whole skin.
As the bowels derive their peristaltic motion, in part, from
the second and third classes ; so it seems that the secretory and
excretory vessels of the glands must be constantly agitated with
a like motion, from the same causes, performing their ordinary
secretions and excretions thereby. Their extraordinary ones are
generally owing to irritations in the membranes, in which the
mouths of their excretory vessels lie. And this agrees remarkably
with the doctrine of vibrations. For the vivid vibrations excited
in the membranes by the irritating cause must diffuse themselves
every way ; and when they come to the mouths of the excretory
vessels, penetrate them, and, by passing up into the vessels, both
excretory and secretory, greatly increase their peristaltic motion,
and, by consequence, their secretions and excretions. All this
seems equally to hold, in respect of the exhaling and absorbing
vessels dispersed throughout the body.
The external motions of the eyes in young children are pro
bably owing, in part at least, to the immediate action of light
upon the tendinous expansions of the four strait muscles, and
particularly upon those of the adducent and abducens. But the
light which passes through the pupil seems also to have some
share, as will be shewn hereafter. As to the internal motions,
it appears, that the light which falls upon the cornea and uvea
must excite the greater and lesser rings to contraction, in pro
portion to its strength; and, consequently, prepare the eye to
see distinctly, at different distances, in the manner explained
by Dr. Jurin. The hypothesis of this proposition does there
fore give and receive light from his ingenious theory of this
matter.
The two muscles which relax the membrana tympani, are much
more exposed to the air than the musculus internus, or the mus-
culus stapedis. When therefore the air is agitated with strong
vibrations, as in loud sounds, it will excite the first-named muscles
to action, and consequently relax the membrana tympani, as it
ought to do. For what reasons the last-named muscles are con
tracted in feeble sounds, is a question of a more difficult nature,
as is the parallel one in the eye, viz. why the radiated fibres of
the uvea are contracted in small degrees of light, so as then to
dilate the pupil.
The reader is desired to take notice, that, in all the instances
of this proposition, I consider the motions as merely automatic.
Their voluntary and semi-voluntary state will be accounted for
in the two next propositions.
Gi THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
Prop. XX.—All that has been delivered above, concerning the
Derivation of ideal Vibratiuncles from sensory Vibrations, and
concerning their Associations, may be fitly applied to motory
Vibrations and Vibratiuncles.
This proposition is the immediate consequence of admitting
the doctrines of vibrations and association, in the manner in
which they have been asserted in the foregoing propositions.
It contains the theory of the voluntary and semi-voluntary
motions ; to facilitate the application of which theory in the next
proposition, I shall deliver the principal cases of this, in the
following corollaries.
Cor. I. The motory vibrations of the five classes mentioned
Prop. XVIII. will generate a propensity to corresponding motory
vibratiuncles.
Cor. II. These motory vibratiuncles will affect the brain, as
well as the motory nerves along which they descend ; and, indeed,
their descent along the motory nerves will be principally owing
to their being first excited in the brain. This is sufficiently
evident in the motory vibratiuncles which are derived from the
motory vibrations of the second and third classes. As to the
motory vibrations of the other classes, it is evident, that the brain
is strongly affected by the sensory vibrations which give birth to
them, and consequently, that a proportional affection of the
brain must take place in the motory vibratiuncles derived from
them.
Cor. III. The motory vibratiuncles will cohere to one another,
by associations both synchronous and successive. Hence the
simple parts, of which complex and decomplex motions are
compounded, may cohere closely, and succeed readily to each
other.
Cor. IV. The motory vibratiuncles will also cohere to ideal
ones by association. Common ideas may therefore excite motory
vibratiuncles, and consequently be able to contract the muscles,
provided the active powers lodged in their fibres and blood glo
bules be sufficiently exalted for this purpose.
Cor. V. If we suppose the ideal vibratiuncles to be so much
increased from the causes mentioned, Prop. XIV. as to be equal-
in strength to the usual sensory vibrations, the motory vibrati
uncles connected with them by aossciation must be supposed to
be increased proportionably. Hence ideas may occasion mus
cular motions of the same strength with the automatic motions.
Cor. VI. The third and last connexion of the motory vibra
tiuncles is that with sensory vibrations, foreign to them, *. e.
such as had no share in generating the motory vibratiuncles
under consideration. Particular motions of the body may there
fore by association be made to depend upon sensations, with
which they have no natural and original connexion.
Cor. I. As muscular motion has three connexions deducible
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. G5
from association, viz. those mentioned in the third, fourth, and
sixth corollaries, so the sensations and ideas have the same three
connexions. Hence the whole doctrine of association may be
comprised in the following' theorem, viz.
If any sensation A, idea B, or muscular motion C, be asso
ciated for a sufficient number of times with any other sensation
D, idea E, or muscular motion F, it will, at last, excite d, the
simple idea belonging to the sensation D, the very idea E, or the
very muscular motion F.
The reader will observe, that association cannot excite the real
sensation D, because the impression of the sensible object is
necessary for this purpose. However, in certain morbid cases,
the idea is magnified so as to equal, or even overpower, sensible
impressions.
Prop. XXI. The voluntary and semi -voluntary Motions are
deducible from Association, in the Manner laid down in the
last Proposition.
In order to verify this proposition, it is necessary to inquire,
what connexions each automatic motion has gained by association
with other motions, with ideas, or with foreign sensations, ac
cording to the third, fourth, and sixth corollaries of the last
proposition, so as to depend upon them, i. e. so as to be excited
no longer, in the automatic manner described in the nineteenth
proposition, but merely by the previous introduction of the
associated motion, idea, or sensation, j If it follow that idea, or
state of mind {i.e. set of compound vibratiuncles), which we term
the will, directly, and without our perceiving the intervention of
any other idea, or of any sensation or motion, it may be called
voluntary, in the highest sense of this word. If the intervention
of other ideas, or of sensations and motions (all which we are to
suppose to follow the will directly), be necessary, it is imper
fectly voluntary ; yet still it will be called voluntary, in the
language of mankind, if it follow certainly and readily upon the
intervention of a single sensation, idea, or motion, excited by
the power of the will : but if more than one of these be required,
or if the motion do not follow with certainty and facility, it is to
be esteemed less and less voluntary, semi-voluntary, or scarce
voluntary at all, agreeably to the circumstances. Now, if it be
found, upon a careful and impartial inquiry, that the motions
which occur every day in common life, and which follow the idea
called the will, immediately or mediately, perfectly or imperfectly,
do this, in proportion to the number and degree of strength in
the associations, this will be sufficient authority for ascribing all
which we call voluntary in actions to association, agreeably to
the purport of this proposition. And this, I think, may be
verified from facts, as far as it is reasonable to expect, in a subject
of inquiry so novel and intricate.
F
fifi THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
In the same manner as any action may be rendered voluntary,
the cessation from any, or a forcible restraint upon any, may be
also, viz. by proper associations with the feeble vibrations in
which inactivity consists, or with the strong action of the
antagonist muscles.
After the actions, which are most perfectly voluntary, have
been rendered so by one set of associations, they may, by another,
be made to depend upon the most diminutive sensations, ideas,
and motions, such as the mind scarce regards, or is conscious of ;
and which therefore it can scarce recollect the moment after the
action is over. Hence it follows, that association not only
converts automatic actions into voluntary, but voluntary ones
into automatic. For these actions, of which the mind is scarce
conscious, and which follow mechanically, as it were, some pre
cedent diminutive sensation, idea or motion, and without any
effort of the mind, are rather to be ascribed to the body than
the mind, *. e. are to be referred to the head of automatic motions.
I shall call them automatic motions of the secondary kind, to
distinguish them both from those which are originally automatic,
and from the voluntary ones ; and shall now give a few instances
of this double transmutation of motions, viz. of automatic into
voluntary, and of voluntary into automatic.
The fingers of young children bend upon almost every impres
sion which is made upon the palm of the hand, thus performing
the action of grasping in the original automatic manner. After
a sufficient repetition of the motory vibrations which concur in
this action, their vibratiuncles are generated, and associated
strongly with other vibrations or vibratiuncles, the most common
of which, I suppose, are those excited by the sight of a favourite
plaything which the child uses to grasp, and hold in his hand.
He ought, therefore, according to the doctrine of association, to
perform and repeat the action of grasping, upon having such a
plaything presented to his sight. But it is a known fact, that
children do this. By pursuing the same method of reasoning,
we may see how, after a sufficient repetition of the proper asso
ciations, the sound of the words grasp, take hold, &c. the sight
of the nurse's hand in a state of contraction, the idea of a hand,
and particularly of the child's own hand, in that state, and
innumerable other associated circumstances, i. e. sensations, ideas,
and motions, will put the child upon grasping, till, at last, that idea,
or state of mind which we may call the will to grasp, is generated
and sufficiently associated with the action to produce it instan
taneously. It is therefore perfectly voluntary in this case ; and
by the innumerable repetitions of it in this perfectly voluntary
state, it comes, at last, to obtain a sufficient connexion with so
many diminutive sensations, ideas, and motions, as to follow
them in the same manner, as originally automatic actions do the
corresponding sensations, and consequently to be automatic
secondarily. And in the same manner, may all the actions
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 67
performed with the hands be explained, all those that are very
familiar in life passing from the original automatic state through
the several degrees of voluntariness till they become perfectly
voluntary, and then repassing through the same degrees in an
inverted order, till they become secondarily automatic on many
occasions, though still perfectly voluntary on some, viz. when
soever an express act of the will is exerted.
I will, in the next place, give a short account of the manner
in which we learn to speak, as it may be deduced from the fore
going proposition. The new-born child is not able to produce a
sound at all, unless the muscles of the trunk and larynx be
stimulated thereto by the impression of pain on some part of the
body. As the child advances in age, the frequent returns of this
action facilitate it ; so that it recurs from less and less pains,
from pleasures, from mere sensations, and lastly from slight
associated circumstances, in the manner already explained.
About the same time that this process is thus far advanced, the
muscles of speech act occasionally, in various combinations,
according to the associations of the motory vibratiuncles with
each other. Suppose now the muscles of speech to act in these
combinations at the same time that sound is produced from
some agreeable impression, a mere sensation, or a slight associated
cause, which must be supposed to be often the case, since it is so
observable, that young children, when in a state of health and
pleasure, exert a variety of actions at the same time. It is
evident, that an articulate sound, or one approaching thereto,
will sometimes be produced by this conjoint action of the muscles
of the trunk, larynx, tongue, and lips ; and that both these arti
culate sounds, and inarticulate ones, will often recur, from the
recurrence of the same accidental causes. After they have
recurred a sufficient number of times, the impression, which
these sounds, articulate and inarticulate, make upon the ear, will
become an associated circumstance (for the child always hears
himself speak, at the same time that he exerts the action) suffi
cient to produce a repetition of them. And thus it is, that
children repeat the same sounds over and over again, for many
successions, the impression of the last sound upon the ear exciting
a fresh one, and so on, till the organs be tired. It follows,
therefore, that if any of the attendants make any of the sounds
familiar to the child, he will be excited from this impression,
considered as an associated circumstance, to return it. But the
attendants make articulate sounds chiefly ; there will therefore
be a considerable balance in favour of such, and that of a growing
nature : so that the child's articulate sounds will be more and
more frequent every day—his inarticulate ones grow into disuse.
Suppose now, that he compounds these simple articulate sounds,
making complex ones, which approach to familiar words at some
times, at others such as are quite foreign to the words of his
native language, and that the first get an ever-growing balance in
68 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
their favour, from the cause just now taken notice of; also, that
they are associated with visible objects, actions, &c. and it will
be easily seen, that the young child ought, from the nature of
association, to learn to speak much in the same manner as he is
found in fact to do. Speech will also become a perfectly volun
tary action, i. e. the child will be able to utter any word or
sentence proposed to him by others, or by himself, from a mere
exertion of the will, as much as to grasp : only here the intro
ductory circumstance, viz. the impression of the sound on the
ear, the idea of this sound, or the preceding motion in pro
nouncing the preceding word is evident ; and therefore makes it
probable, that the same thing takes place in other cases. In
like manner, speech, after it has been voluntary for a due time,
will become secondarily automatic, i. e. will follow associated
circumstances, without any express exertion of the will.
From the account here given of the actions of handling and
speaking, we may understand in what manner the first rudiments
are laid of that faculty of imitation, which is so observable in
young children. They see the actions of their own hands, and
hear themselves pronounce. Hence the impressions made by
themselves on their own eyes and ears become associated circum
stances, and consequently must, in due time, excite to the
repetition of the actions. Hence like impressions made on their
eyes and ears by others will have the same effect; or, in other
words, they will learn to imitate the actions which they see, and
the sounds which they hear.
In the same manner may be explained the evident powers
which the will has over the actions of swallowing, breathing,
coughing, and expelling the urine and faeces, as well as the
feeble and imperfect ones over sneezing, hiccoughing, and vomit
ing. As to the motion of the heart, and peristaltic motion of
the bowels, since they are constant, they must be equally asso
ciated with every thing, i. e. peculiarly so with nothing, a few
extraordinary cases excepted. They will therefore continue to
move solely in the original automatic manner, during the whole
course of our lives. However, association may, perhaps, have
some share in keeping these motions, and that of respiration, up
for a time, when the usual automatic causes are deficient in any
measure; and may thus contribute to their equability and
constancy. It seems certain, at least, that where unequable and
irregular motions of the heart and bowels are generated, and
made to recur for a sufficient number of times, from their
peculiar causes, in full quantity, a less degree of the same causes,
or even an associated circumstance, will suffice to introduce them
afterwards. And the same thing may be observed of hysteric
and epileptic fits. These recur from less and less causes perpe
tually, in the same manner, and for the same reasons, as original
automatic motions are converted into voluntary ones.
I will add one instance more of the transition of voluntary
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 69
actions into automatic ones of the secondary kind, in order to
make that process clearer, by having it singly in view. Suppose
a person who has a perfectly voluntary command over his fingers,
to begin to learn to play upon the harpsichord; the first step is
to move his fingers from key to key, with a slow motion, looking
at the notes, and exerting an express act of volition in every
motion. By degrees the motions cling to one another, and to
the impressions of the notes, in the way of association so often
mentioned, the acts of volition growing less and less express all
the time, till at last they become evanescent and imperceptible.
For an expert performer will play from notes, or ideas laid up in
the memory, or from the connexion of the several complex parts
of the decomplex motions, some or all ; and, at the same time,
carry on a quite different train of thoughts in his mind, or even
hold a conversation with another. Whence we may conclude,
that the passage from the sensory, ideal, or motory vibrations
which precede, to those motory ones which follow, is as ready
and direct, as from the sensory vibrations to the original
automatic motions corresponding to them ; and consequently,
that there is no intervention of the idea, or state of mind, called
will. At least, the doctrine of association favours this, and the
fact shews, that there is no perceptible intervention, none of
which we are conscious.
And thus, from the present proposition, and the nineteenth
taken together, we are enabled to account for all the motions of
the human body, upon principles which, though they may be
fictitious, are, at least, clear and intelligible. The doctrine of
vibrations explains all the original automatic motions, that ofasso
ciation the voluntary and secondarily automatic ones. And if the
doctrine of association be founded in, and deducible from, that of
vibrations, in the manner delivered above, then all the sensa
tions, ideas, and motions, of all animals, will be conducted
according to the vibrations of the small medullary particles. Let
the reader examine this hypothesis by the facts, and judge for
himself. There are innumerable things, which, when properly
discussed, will be sufficient tests of it. It will be necessary, in
examining the motions, carefully to distinguish the automatic
state from the voluntary one, and to remember, that the first is
not to be found pure, except in the motions of the new-born
infant, or such as are excited by some violent irritation or pain.
Cor. I. The brain, not the spinal marrow, or nerves, is the
seat of the soul, as far as it presides over the voluntary motions.
For, by Cor. II. of the last proposition, the efficacy of the
motory vibratiuncles depends chiefly on that part of them which
is excited within the brain.
Cor. II. The hypothesis here proposed is diametrically oppo
site to that of Stahl, and his followers. They suppose all animal
motions to be voluntary in their original state, whereas this hypo
thesis supposes them all to be automatic at first, i. e. involuntary,
70 THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS
and to become voluntary afterwards by degrees. However, the
Stahlians agree with me concerning the near relation of these
two sorts of motion to each other, as also concerning the
transition (or rather return, according to my hypothesis) of
voluntary motions into involuntary ones, or into those which I
call secondarily automatic. As to final causes, which are the
chief subject of inquiry amongst the Stahlians, they are, without
doubt, every where consulted, in the structure and functions of
the parts ; they are also of great use for discovering the efficient
ones. But then they ought not to be put in the place of the
efficient ones; nor should the search after the efficient be
banished from the study of physic, since the power of the phy
sician, such as it is, extends to these alone. Not to mention,
that the knowledge of the efficient causes is equally useful for
discovering the final, as may appear from many parts of these
observations.
Cor. III. It may afford the reader some entertainment, to
compare my hypothesis with what Des Cartes and Leibnitz have
advanced, concerning animal motion, and the connexion between
the soul and body. My general plan bears a near relation to
theirs. And it seems not improbable to me, that Des Cartes
might have had success in the execution of his, as proposed in
the beginning of his Treatise on Man, had he been furnished
with a proper assemblage of facts from anatomy, physiology,
pathology, and philosophy, in general. Both Leibnitz's pre-
established harmony, and Malebranche's system of occasional
causes, are free from that great difficulty of supposing, according
to the scholastic system, that the soul, an immaterial substance,
exerts and receives a real physical influence upon and from the
body, a material substance. And the reader may observe, that
If he admit the simple case of the connexion between the soul
and body, in respect of sensation, as it is laid down in the first
proposition, and only suppose, that there is a change made in
the medullary substance, proportional and correspondent to every
change in the sensations, the doctrine of vibrations, as here
delivered, undertakes to account for all the rest, the origin of our
ideas and motions, and the manner in which both the sensations
and these are performed.
Cor. IV. 1 will here add Sir Isaac Newton's words, concern
ing sensation- and voluntary motion, as they occur at the end of
his Principia, both because they first led me into this hypothesis,
and because they flow from it as a corollary. He affirms then,
" both that all sensation is performed, and also the limbs of
animals moved in a voluntary manner, by the power and actions
ofa certain very subtle spirit, i. e. by the vibrations of this spirit,
propagated through the solid capillaments of the nerves from the
external organs of the senses' to the brain, and from the brain
into the muscles."
the hypothesis here proposed
AND ASSOCIATION IN GENERAL. 71
Cor. V. It follows, from the account here given of the volun
tary and semi-voluntary motions, that we must get every day
voluntary and semi-voluntary powers, in respect of our ideas and
affections. Now this consequence of the doctrine of association
is also agreeable to the fact. Thus we have a voluntary power
of attending to an idea for a short time, of recalling one, of recol
lecting a name, a fact, &c. a semi-voluntary one of quickening or
restraining affections already in motion, and a most perfectly
voluntary one of exciting moral motives, by reading, reflection, &c.
Prop. XXII.—It follows, from the Hypothesis here proposed,
concerning the voluntary Motions, that a Power of obtaining
Pleasure, and removing Pain, will be generated early in Chil
dren, and increase afterwards every Day.
For the motions which are previous and subservient to the
obtaining of pleasure, and the removal of pain, will be much more
frequent, from the very instant of birth, than those which occasion
pain. The number also of the first will be perpetually increasing,
of the last decreasing. Both which positions may be evinced by
the following arguments :
First, The pleasures are much more numerous than the pains.
Hence the motions which are subservient to them are much more
numerous also.
Secondly, The associated circumstances of the pleasures are
many more in number than the pleasures themselves. But these
circumstances, after a sufficient association, will be able to excite
the motions subservient to the pleasures, as well as these them
selves. And this will greatly augment the methods of obtaining
pleasure.
Thirdly, It favours the position here advanced, that the mo
tions subservient to pleasure are of a moderate nature; and
therefore, that they can be excited with the more ease, both in
an automatic and voluntary manner.
Fourthly, The pains, and consequently the motions subservient
to them, are few, and of a violent nature. These motions are
also various, and therefore cannot be united to objects and ideas
with constancy and steadiness; and, which is most to be re
garded, they end, at last, from the very make of the body, in that
species of motion which contributes most to remove or assuage
the pain. This species therefore, since it recurs the most fre
quently, and continues longest, must be confirmed by association,
to the exclusion of the rest.
Cor. I. Many changes in the actions of young children, very
difficult to be explained, according to the usual methods of con
sidering human actions, appear to admit of a solution from this
proposition. These changes are such as tend to the ease, con
venience, pleasure, of the young child ; and they are sufficiently
observable in the transition of the originally automatic actions
THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRATIONS.
into voluntary ones, as matters of fact, whatever be determined
concerning their cause. I shall therefore refer to them occa
sionally, in the course of these papers, as allowed matters of fact.
Cor. II. It seems also, that many very complex propensities
and pursuits in adults, by which they seek their own pleasure
and happiness, both explicitly and implicitly, may be accounted
for, upon the same, or such-like principles.
Cor. III. To similar causes we must also refer that propensity
to excite and cherish grateful ideas and affections, and trains of
these, which is so observable in all mankind. However, this
does not hold in so strict a manner, but that ungrateful trains
will present themselves, and recur on many occasions, and par
ticularly whenever there is a morbid, and somewhat painful, state
of the medullary substance.
Cor. IV. Since God is the source of all good, and conse
quently must at last appear to be so, i. e. be associated with all
our pleasures, it seems to follow, even from this proposition, that
the idea of God, and of the ways by which his goodness and
happiness are made manifest, must, at last, take place of, and
absorb all other ideas, and he himself become, according to the
language of the Scriptures, All in all.
Cor. V. This proposition, and its corollaries, afford some very
general, and perhaps new, instances of the coincidence of efficient
and final causes.
Cor. VI. The agreement of the doctrines of vibrations and
association, both with each other, and with so great a variety of
the phaenomena of the body and mind, may be reckoned a strong
argument for their truth.
CHAP. II.
CONTAINING THE APPLICATION OF THE DOCTRINES OF VIBRA
TIONS AND ASSOCIATION TO EACH OF THE SENSATIONS AND
MOTIONS, IN PARTICULAR.
SECT. I.
OF THE SENSE OF FEELING.
Prop. XXIII.—To distinguish the several Kinds of Feeling from
each other, and to assign the general Causes of the different
Degrees of Exquisiteness in this Sense.
Here we may first distinguish feeling into the general and
particular.
The general feeling extends to all the parts of the body,
external and internal : for they are all susceptible of pain from
wounds and inflammations, of being put into a pleasurable state,
of numbness, and total want of sensation, and of perceiving heat,
cold, and pressure. Some writers consider all the sensations of
all the senses as so many kinds of feeling ; but I do not here use
this word in so extensive an acceptation.
The particular feeling is that more exquisite degree which
resides in the insides of the hands, and especially in the ends of
the fingers ; and by which we distinguish the tangible qualities
of bodies, viz. heat, cold, moisture, dryness, softness, hardness,
smoothness, roughness, also their motion, rest, distance, and
figure, with more accuracy than by any other part. These sen
sations are, for the most part, adiaphorous ones.
The greater exquisiteness of the particular feeling arises pro
bably from the following causes :
First, The sentient papillce rise high from the skin (becoming
extreme parts thereby), and receive a large proportional quantity
of nerves in the ends of the fingers.
Secondly, The ends of the fingers are themselves extreme
parts, and consequently receive stronger agitations in their in
finitesimal medullary particles, from the stronger vibrations of the
74 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
contiguous denser aether. For we must suppose, that the vibra
tions of the rarer aether within the nerves extend themselves a
little way into the denser surrounding aether, and even become
stronger to a certain distance ; after which they become weaker
again, and are, at last, quite suppressed by the increase of density
in the aether, and by their own diffusion.
Thirdly, It is customary, in endeavouring to feel exquisitely,
to rub the ends of the fingers against the tangible object. Now
this friction may, by exciting vibrations, and a consequent con
traction in certain muscular fibrils belonging to the papillae,
distend and erect these, and thereby increase their sensibility.
Fourthly, There is much here to be ascribed to practice and
habit, i. e. to association ; and it is chiefly on this account, that
the sensations of the ends of the fingers give us so much more
precise information concerning the tangible qualities of bodies,
than those of the ends of the toes, since the structure of the
nervous papilla; is alike in both. It ought to be considered as
a part of this reason, that, according to the principles laid down
in the last chapter, we may get a voluntary power of erecting the
papilla; without friction, or of increasing and fixing the distention
during friction, in order to feel with greater exquisiteness and
precision.
The sense of feeling may also be distinguished into that of the
external surface of the body, and that of the cavities of the nose,
mouth, fauces, alimentary duct, pelvis of the kidnies, ureters,
bladder of urine, gall-bladder, follicles, and ducts of the glands, &c.
The sensibility in the last is much greater than in the first, be
cause the impressions can more easily penetrate through the soft
epithelium, with which the internal cavities are invested, than
through the hard cuticle, because the compact fibrous membrane
of the true skin does not suffer the vibrations to pass freely up
the nerve through its own substance, but rather diffuses them
along its surface, and because the moisture of the epithelium
dissolves, and thereby renders active all the saline particles, which
touch the internal cavities. In the mouth and nose this sensibility
is so great, and attended with such distinguishing circumstances,
as to have the names of taste and smell assigned respectively to
the sensations impressed upon the papilla of these two organs.
And as the sensations of the alimentary duct have a near relation
to, and connexion with, those of the mouth, I shall refer them
to the head of taste. But the sensations of the other internal
cavities may be comprehended more properly under feeling.
It ought also to be observed here, that the lips, nipples, and
external parts of generation, have a more exquisite sensibility
than the other external parts ; partly from the structure of their
papilla, and partly from the thinness of the cutis, and softness
and thinness of the cuticle. The extreme sensibility of the cornea
and tunica conjunctiva of the eye may arise from the manner iu
which the nerves are here exposed, and the tension of these parts.
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 75
Prop. XXIV.—To examine koto far the Sensations of Heat and
Cold are agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
A body is termed hot, when its heat exceeds that of the part,
with which we touch it ; cold, when its heat is less than this.
The terms hot and cold are therefore relative ones, and the
qualities denoted by them run into each other without any precise
distinguishing limits. We may consequently refer cold to heat,
and, if we admit the doctrine of vibrations, we are to suppose,
that the small parts of all bodies are agitated by subtle vibrations;
and that when these vibrations exceed those of the part with
which we touch them, they are called warm or hot ; when they
fall short, cold.
This may be regarded as a gross, general position, which pre
sents itself upon the first consideration of this matter. But then,
as, according to this definition of heat, all those objects of taste
and smell, which excite strong vibratory motions in the organs,
ought to excite heat, we must inquire farther into the vibratory
motions of bodies termed hot in common language, and into the
difference between these and the vibrations excited in the nerves
of taste and smell by sapid and odorous bodies. -
I conjecture therefore, that the vibrations belonging to heat
are in general quicker and shorter, than the peculiar ones excited
by tastes, smells, and colours ; also that the last, or the vibrations
of the rays of light, are quicker than those of tastes and smells.
We may conceive farther, that all the vibrations of the small
particles of the medullary substance, and interjacent aether, from
whatever cause they arise, grow quicker as they grow shorter,
i.e. weaker; or, according to the conjecture just made, that in
declining they tend to those which impress the sensation of heat.
For vibratory motions of different lengths can be isochronous
only according to one law, viz. that of the accelerating force
being in the simple proportion of the distance from the middle
point of the vibration, as when a heavy body vibrates in a cycloid ;
whereas, if the accelerating force be in any less ratio than this,
short vibrations will be quicker than long ones. Lastly, we are
to conceive, that when two vibrations of different kinds, or fre
quences, are impressed at the same time, they must reduce one
another to some single intermediate one, unless the quicker be so
much more numerous than the slower, as to be comprehended
within them, so that both may be performed together without
opposition or confusion.
Let us now inquire how far the several effects of heat and cold
upon our bodies are agreeable either to the notion of vibrations
in general, or to the particular conjectures of the- last paragraph.
First, then, we may expect that heat will rarefy the solids and
fluids of the body, and the last more than the first, which is
agreeable to experience. For the increase of the agitations will
make the small particles recede from one another, and that more
76 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
in fluid than in solid parts, because of their looser texture.
There may be other reasons also, drawn from the particular
unknown composition of each part, solid and fluid, which may
subject them to greater or less rarefaction. Thus, I conjecture,
that the red blood is more apt to be rarefied than the other fluids,
and that it is by this means made a chief instrument in com
pressing the white medullary substance of the brain, and spinal
marrow, in natural and morbid sleep, to both which heat contri
butes, as has been observed already.
Secondly, If heat be caused by vibrations, we may expect, that
those propagated from the hot or cold body should diffuse them
selves freely and instantaneously over the whole nervous system,
*. e. the whole body ; however along the surface of the skin, in
an especial manner. This follows from the uniformity both of
the whole medullary substance, and of the skin. The first com
municates the vibrations which ascend along the nerves affected
to the whole body, the last those impressed upon the part of the
skin, which touches the hot or cold body, to the other parts of it.
Now this is agreeable to experience : for when the whole body
is too hot, or too cold, we find that the mere touch of a cold or
hot body will give general relief immediately; and in some cases
a thrilling or shivering may be felt to run along the skin.
Thirdly, If the skin be contracted by any cause different from
the direct impression of cold, as by the pain propagated from a
wound, the colic, the irritation of a stone in the bladder, &c. this
contraction, first excited by an increase of vibrations in the mus
cular variously interwoven fibrils of the skin, may be expected
afterwards to check and diminish the vibrations there, and thus
to occasion the sensation of cold, agreeably to experience. The
chilliness arising from matter absorbed, and from the cause ofacute
distempers, whatever that be, may admit of a like explanation.
The tremors, i. e. sudden, short, alternate contractions of the
antagonist muscles, which happen in the foregoing cases, arise
probably from an increase of vibrations, not subject to ideas, and
the voluntary power, descending from the brain into the whole
system of the muscles ; and seem to differ from the stronger and
larger convulsive motions of hysteric and epileptic disorders, called
convulsions emphatically, rather in degree than kind. These
tremors generally precede the sense of chilliness, when the con
traction of the fibres of the skin does not arise from the direct
impression of cold.
We may from hence pass to the sensation of chilliness, and
the tremors, which are sometimes occasioned by the passions,
fear, anger, surprise, joy, &c. Both the redness and the paleness
of the lips, face, and neck, which are observable in these cases,
are marks of a contraction in muscular fibrils; in a less degree
in the first case, so as to check the return of the venal blood ; in
a greater in the last, so as to prevent the influx of the arterial.
Fourthly, It is easy to conceive, that heat may occasion pain,
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 77
agreeably to the hypothesis concerning pain, above proposed.
For the strong vibrations excited by great heat must put the
small parts beyond the spheres of each other's attraction, and so
produce the solution of continuity. But neither does it seem
inconceivable, that cold may have a like effect, agreeably to the
doctrine of vibrations, though the process be different. For
great cold, by checking the vibrations in the external part, to
which it is applied, will alter the situation and distance of the
small medullary particles there, and so must excite vigorous
vibrations in the ascending nerves, and the corresponding region
of the brain, which is just the effect occasioned by heat, applied
to the same external part. Hence, if we are touched by a very
hot or a very cold body, inadvertently, and without seeing it, it
ought to be difficult to distinguish which it is, agreeably to the
fact. The conflict between the diminished vibrations, in the
external part to which cold is applied, and the previous ones
subsisting in the corresponding part of the brain, may exalt these
previous ones, as much as heat does, so as to render the first
simple impression of cold similar to that of heat.
Fifthly, The continued impression of heat makes us more sen
sible of cold. For when heat has rarefied the parts, and adapted
them to a peculiar strength and frequency of vibrations, differing
from the usual standard, the cold, whose difference from the
usual standard lies on the other side, must raise a greater conflict,
and produce a greater change, than if the parts had remained at
the usual standard. The continued impression of cold must for
the same reasons make us more sensible of heat. This explica
tion will perhaps suit with other theories of sensation, as well as
with that drawn from vibrations. However, the mere consistency
of any phaenomena with the doctrine of vibrations is worthy of
some attention in this inquiry.
Sixthly, When the calf of the leg is affected with the cramp,
setting the foot upon a cold marble will afford immediate relief.
For the cold may check the violent vibrations in the fibres of the
gastrocnemii and soleus, directly and immediately ; or it may do
it by exciting vigorous vibrations of a different kind, which extend
to their antagonist muscles, as well as to the fore-mentioned ones.
But I judge the first account to be more probable.
Seventhly, If a limb, that has been much chilled with cold, be
brought to a fire suddenly, it will first be much pained, and then
mortify. For the vibrations excited by the fire, though mode
rate in respect of the usual standard, are yet excessive in
respect of those which the cold has introduced, also in respect
of that sphere of attraction, which it has now fixed upon the
parts : there will arise therefore a violent conflict, solution of
continuity, and consequent pain ; and the parts will be agitated
so much more than their present spheres of attraction will permit,
that they cannot return to it any more, but must be entirely dis
united, and run into different combinations, i. e. the limb must
78 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
mortify. But, if the limb be put into cold water, rubbed, and
gradually exalted to the usual standard of heat, it may be pre
served. Where it is to be observed, that the heat of water, while
fluid, is above the freezing point, and, consequently, greater than
that of a frozen limb.
It may somewhat confirm this reasoning, to give a similar
explication of some of the phaenomena of glass bubbles, made by
dropping melted glass into water. We may suppose then, that
these fall at once into powder, when broken at their points, be
cause the cold water has so far reduced the sphere of attraction,
that all the parts of the bubbles are agitated beyond this, by
breaking their points. But if a bubble be heated, and its parts
brought to a larger sphere of attraction by the agitations from
heat, it will no longer fall to powder when broken at its point.
It may also have its parts ground away at pleasure, without
falling to powder, because grinding agitates all the contiguous
parts with strong vibrations, like heat, and enlarges the sphere
of their attractions.
Eighthly, When the parts contiguous to a mortified slough
have a sufficient heat in them, excited by the vis vitce, or warm
applications, the vibrations attending this life and heat of the
parts ought to help to shake off and separate the mortified
slough, i. e. to stop the mortification ; which is agreeable to the
fact. Hence mortifications from external cold, in bodies other
wise healthy, will come to separate soonest, and most perfectly,
as it is frequently seen in cold climates. Hence also mortifica
tions happening in the acute distempers of young persons, if
they stop at all, stop sooner than those in the extreme parts of
old persons.
Ninthly, It is said that cold water, sprinkled upon the dis
tended limbs of malefactors upon the rack, renews and augments
their pains. Now, we may here suppose, that the parts had, in
some measure, begun to accommodate themselves to their dis
tended state, by getting new and enlarged spheres of action ;
when therefore the cold water endeavours to contract the parts
again, and to narrow the spheres of action, the limbs still con
tinuing distended by the rack, it is evident, that a strong conflict,
with violent vibrations, and the solution of continuity, must
ensue. Was the limb released first, and then cold water applied,
it might contribute, as in sprains, to restore the parts to their
former state, without exciting any such violent conflict. The
good effects of vinegar, verjuice, spirit of wine, and other con
tracting liquids, in sprains, are to be explained upon the same
principles.
Tenthly, Hot or cold water feels hotter or colder, respectively,
when the hand is moved in it, than when it is kept at rest. For
the hand, when at rest, has time, a little to check or exalt the
vibrations in the contiguous hot or cold water.
Eleventhly, When a person goes into cold water leisurely, he
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 79
is apt to sob, and to respire in a convulsive manner, for a short
time. For the impression of the cold upon the lower limbs
excites such vigorous vibrations in the abdominal and other
muscles of expiration, as being nearer to the seat of the impres
sion, than the muscles of inspiration, that a convulsive continued
expiration is first produced, then a sob, or deep inspiration : and
lastly, strong convulsive expirations and inspirations for some
successions.
The good effects of cold bathing arise perhaps, in part, from its
narrowing the sphere of attraction in the small parts of the mus
cular fibres, and at the same time making this attraction stronger.
Hence it may be prejudicial in some paralytical affections, as
it is found to be. For, if the small vessels of the nerves be
obstructed, it may, by contracting the solids, increase the ob
struction, and consequently, the impediment to the free vibra
tions necessary to sense and motion.
Twelfthly, Bathing in warm water, impregnated with active
mineral particles, may, by exciting and increasing vibrations in
the white medullary substance, as well as by other means,
remove obstructions in its small vessels, and thus be serviceable
in many paralytical disorders, as it is found to be in fact. The
same reasoning is applicable to the stiffness, insensibility, and
impotency, of motion, which the rheumatism often leaves in the
limbs.
Cold bathing may in like manner be serviceable in paralytic
and rheumatic disorders, by exciting and increasing vibrations ;
provided the ill effect from the immediate contraction do not
preclude this good one.
Thirteenthly, Since frictions, and other impressions upon the
skin, increase the vibrations there, it may be expected, that they
should increase the heat. And this is the fact. If a person rub
his hands together in cold weather, the sensation of heat will be
felt to arise in a moment, and to go off again in a moment after
he ceases to rub ; for the vibrations excited by rubbing may be
expected to languish immediately, if not kept up by continuing
the friction.
Fourteenthly, Strong tastes may, according to the doctrine of
vibrations, be expected to leave a heat upon the tongue, mouth,
and fauces, as they are found to do. And, in general, all vivid
impressions upon every part of our bodies ought to increase the
heat generally or particularly ; which perhaps is the case, though
we are seldom able to determine this by observation.
Fifteenthly, All strong emotions of mind ought also to increase
the heat of the body. This is a matter of common observation,
if we except the chilliness of the skin, and coldness of the extre
mities, which have been explained above, agreeably to the doc
trine of vibrations.
The three last articles favour the above delivered conjectures
concerning the peculiar nature of the vibrations belonging to
80 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
heat. The phaenomena enumerated in all the fifteen may admit
of other explanations, at least in part, but of none, as far as I
can judge, that are inconsistent with the doctrine of vibrations.
Prop. XXV. To examine how far the Phcenomena of Wounds,
Burns, Bruises, Lacerations, Inflammations, and Ulcers, are
agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
The manifest solution of continuity, which is the very essence
of a wound, may occasion pain, agreeably to the doctrine of
vibrations, in the manner that has been explained already. This
is the immediate pain that attends a wound. The subsequent
one is to be referred either to the head of inflammation, or to
that of ulcer.
The immediate pain from burns has likewise been explained
agreeably to the doctrine of vibrations, also the separation of the
dead or mortified eschar, under the last proposition. The sub
sequent pain is to be referred to the heads of inflammation and
ulcer, as before.
A bruise is supposed, and with the appearance of reason, to be
an infinite number of infinitely small wounds. It ought there
fore to be attended with a pain resembling that of a large wound,
and yet not exactly the same, which is the fact. As large
wounds are sometimes healed by the first intention, without any
subsequent ulcer, so may bruises. If otherwise, the subsequent
pain must again be referred to the heads of inflammation and
ulcer.
Lacerations are great wounds attended with bruises, i. e. with
an infinite number of infinitely small ones. These are never
cured without coming to digestion, /. e. an ulcer, and the requisite
previous inflammation.
The heat and distention of the small vessels in inflammations
are sufficient to account for the pain attending them, upon prin
ciples already laid down.
In ulcers the nerves are exposed defenceless, and therefore
are susceptible of the most violent vibrations, and consequent
pain from slight impressions : to which it is to be added, that
the moisture of ulcers, by dissolving the saline parts of bodies
applied, greatly augments their actions upon the naked nerves.
Fomentations and cataplasms seem to afford relief in the
foregoing cases, partly by diffusing an equal warmth all around,
partly by their aqueous or oily moisture. For the diffusion of
warmth prevents that conflict, which would arise between neigh
bouring parts of different heats ; and the moisture, which insi
nuates itself among the small particles, sets them at greater
distances, and consequently lessens their mutual actions. The
violent vibrations will therefore be moderated on both accounts.
The friction attending embrocations does in like manner diffuse
vibrations all around, and the liniment or liquid, with which the
THE SENSE OF FEELING. HI
embrocation is made, may contribute according to its particular
qualities. Hence embrocations are also of use in resolving ob
structions.
In all these cases the violent vibrations, which ascend along the
nerves of the injured part, must be communicated in a particular
manner to the neighbouring branches, and occasion a slight
inflammation, i. e. a soreness, there. This soreness is not per
ceived while the original inflammation subsists, being obscured
by it. The vibrations in the neighbouring nerves may also be
increased by the cessation of violent ones in the place of original
inflammation. Hence the soreness of the neighbouring parts
after colics, head-aches, &c. The pain in the external parts of
the head, which follows a debauch, i. e. an inflammation of the
brain, and its membranes, may be of the same kind.
These hints may serve to shew, that the doctrine of vibrations
is as agreeable to the phaenomena of wounds, burns, &c. as any
other yet proposed, or even more so. But much farther inquiry
is requisite.
Prop. XXVI.—To examine how far the Phcenomena of Itching
and Titillation are agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Itching often attends the beginning and ending of inflamma
tions, and particularly the eruption of inflammatory pustules.
We may conclude therefore, according to the foregoing account
of inflammations, that itching is caused by a moderate increase
of vibrations, in a part of small extent.
It is agreeable to this, that the lodgment of the perspirable
matter, or other cutaneous secretion, when hardened, occasions
itching ; for it is easy to conceive, that in these cases, an obstruc
tion and slight inflammation in the small vessels of the skin may
arise.
Pressure, which allays itching, may be supposed to do this by
checking the vibrations.
Scratching may convert it ^to a pleasure, by communicating
the increased vibrations to mi neighbouring parts, in such a
degree as falls within the limits of pleasure. And as this freer
communication caused by scratching may increase the vibrations
in the neighbouring parts, so it may lessen those which subsisted
before in the point that itched, thus reducing all to an equality,
or nearly so. At the same time it appears, that rude or long-
continued scratching must, by the increase of vibrations, which it
occasions, also by laceration, increase the heat, inflammation, and
itching, and even end in pain.
Friction of the skin, without previous itching, excites a plea
surable sensation ; and also ends in inflammation and pain, when
carried too far, for the like reasons.
Since extreme parts are more apt to receive an increase of
vibrations than others, as has been observed ; it appears, that the
G
82 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
itching of the nose and anus may be expected to attend worms
in the stomach or intestines, and the itching of the glans penis
and anus a slight inflammation at the neck of the bladder from a
stone. These instances shew, that vibrations run freely along
the surfaces of uniform membranes ; and this is farther confirmed
in the last case, by the check which a pressure made in perinceo,
or anywhere upon the urethra, will give to the itching in the
glans.
Titillation is nearly related to itching. It is excited by slight
impressions upon the more sensible parts, frequently renewed ;
and this may show, that it arises from an increase of vibrations.
The impressions must be so slight as not to excite a contraction
in the neighbouring muscular fibrils, and also frequently renewed,
that the increase of vibrations may diffuse itself farther and
farther perpetually ; and thus the whole nervous system may, in
some cases, be at last put into a pleasurable state, approaching
to the limits of pain, and passing within them at times.
Hence it appears, that as soon as children have learnt to cry,
or yield a sound, from nascent pains, and from pleasures just
passing into pains, titillation may excite short, alternate, nascent
cries in them, i. e. laughter, but not before. If the impressions
be made upon the chest, the effect will be quicker and stronger,
because these impressions have a direct influence upon the
muscles concerned in laughter.
If a feather be passed slightly to and fro between the lips, it
will excite a titillation there, which will diffuse itself into the
neighbouring parts of the upper lip and chin, and pass into an
itching in them. The original titillation between the lips may
be allayed by pressing them together, and the consequent itching
by pressure and friction, as in other cases. All these things suit
with the hypothesis of vibrations, and of their free diffusion.
In like manner, the free diffusion of vibrations, and their
influence in contracting the neighbouring muscles, may be
inferred from the vomitings, which are excited by tickling the
fauces with a feather.
Prop. XXVII.—To examine how far the Sensations attending
Pressure, and muscular Contraction, are agreeable to the
Doctrine of Vibrations.
As friction and titillation agree with heat in increasing vibra
tions, so pressure agrees with cold in checking them. Thus
pressure abates the uneasiness from itching, as mentioned above ;
and binding, or otherwise gently compressing parts in pain, or
inflamed, i. e. parts in which the vibrations are excessive, will,
for the most part, afford relief ; whereas friction would increase
the pain to a great degree. But the pain usually becomes more
violent the instant the compression is removed. For the mere
elasticity of the parts alters their figure, i. e. produces internal
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 83
motions, with an increase of vibrations. Pressure may also
increase vibrations in the internal parts, contiguous to those
where it checks them ; or even in the external ones, if it be so
great as to occasion any considerable distention there. And
thus there may be a variety of vibrations occasioned by the
several kinds and degrees of pressure, sufficient to correspond to
all the variety of sensations excited thereby.
Muscular contraction most commonly attends and is attended
by pressure, as in the common motions of handling and walking,
whereby we overcome the vis inertice of our own bodies, and of
those which we have occasion to move or stop. Hence all the
sensations which we receive from the vis inertue of matter, must
be derived from these two sources of muscular contraction and
pressure.
Now it has been observed already, that muscular contraction
checks the vibrations in the contracted fibres, and increases them
in the neighbouring parts. And it is easy to conceive, that the
sensation corresponding to this alteration of vibrations may
sometimes fall within the limits of pleasure, sometimes go beyond
them. In young animals, also after sleep and rest in all, it is
usually pleasant ; after much labour, or sprains, and in inflam
mations, painful; and this, whether the disordered muscle itself,
or its antagonist, be contracted. For there must be.an increase
of vibrations in the disordered muscle both before it can be itself
contracted, and also in consequence of the contraction of its
antagonist ; as has been shewn before.
Prop. XXVIII.—To examine how far the Phcenomena of
Numbnesses, and paratytical Insensibilities, are agreeable to
the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Numbness, being a diminution of sensibility, ought, according
to the doctrine of vibrations, to proceed from such causes, as either
indispose the parts for the reception of vivid vibrations, or hinder
their free ascent to the brain. Agreeably to this, a compression
made upon the nerve, which leads to any part, will occasion a
numbness in that part, the nerve below the compression being
unfitted thereby to receive vibrations freely, and the nerve
above incapable of transmitting freely such as are excited. A
compression of a blood-vessel may have a like effect, because it
must lessen that heat, and intestine motion, which a free circula
tion would communicate to the part. The compression usually
made upon the skin, when we press a nerve or blood-vessel, will
also contribute. And external cold will hasten the effect, when
joined to the just-named causes ; or produce it alone, if intense,
or long continued. In like manner, numbness, from a com
pression made upon the nerves or blood-vessels, is much favoured
by sleep, because the parts are then indisposed both to receive
and to transmit vibrations.
-g2
81 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
The benumbed limb feels larger, because any gross body,
which encompasses and presses upon a limb by its weight or
stricture, deadens the vibrations in it ; and therefore conversely,
when the vibrations are so deadened from a different cause, the
idea of a gross encompassing body, or, which is almost the same
thing, of the enlargement of the limb, will be suggested to the
mind. But this circumstance must be referred to the head of
association.
When the benumbed part begins to recover its feeling, violent
prickings are often perceived. Now these seem to take place in
the points where the natural vibrations first return ; suppose at
the ends of the nervous papilla, and to arise from the conflict
between the natural vibrations in these points, and the languid
ones in the neighbouring parts. However, they come to an
equality at last, by their mutual influences, as well as by the
return of the natural vibrations to all the parts; which may serve
to shew how itching ceases at last of itself. Friction helps to
disperse and remove these prickings, and to restore the lost sen
sibility, which is very suitable to the notion of vibrations, and to
the effect which it has in itchings.
If the hand be held down, and shaken, its muscles being first
relaxed by a voluntary power, a numbness will be occasioned, in
which the fingers feel large, for the reason given above. This
numbness seems to arise from the irregular agitations, or vibra
tions, excited in the small parts ; which, being different from the
natural ones, or those in which sensibility consists, must check
them; just as the agitations of water from the wind hinder the
free propagation of regular undulations from a stone cast into it ;
or as any commotion of the air checks the free and distinct com
munication of a sound. It seems also, that those irregular and
dissonant vibrations, which shaking the hand causes in the small
medullary particles of its nerves, may pass on from part to part,
though not so freely as regular ones.
From hence we may proceed to consider the numbness occa
sioned by the stroke of the torpedo. For the oscillations of this
fish's back may neither be isochronous in themselves, nor suitable
to those which existed previously in the hand ; and yet they may
be so strong as not only to check and overpower those in the'part
which touches the fish, but also to propagate themselves along
the skin, and up the nerves, to the brachial ganglion, and even
to the spinal marrow and brain ; whence the person would first
feel the stupefaction ascend along the arm to the shoulder, and
then fall into a giddiness, and general confusion, as is affirmed to
happen sometimes. Some effects of concussions of the brain,
and perhaps of the spinal marrow, also of being tossed in a ship,
of riding backwards in a coach, and of other violent and unusual
agitations of the body, seem to bear a relation to the present
subject. But it would be too minute to pursue these things.
When a palsy arises from an internal cause, we may suppose.
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 85
that the medullary part of the brain, or of the spinal marrow, or
the nerve itself, in all which the vessels are extremely fine, and
therefore liable to obstructions, especially in old age, become
opaque, and unqualified to receive and transmit vibrations freely,
according to Sir Isaac Newton's opinion. Hence a diminution
or entire loss of sense or motion, or both, may follow, according
to the degree and extent of the obstruction and opacity. The
voluntary power of motion is soon lost, as being an acquired
faculty, and depending upon associated circumstances, and me
mory. But if there be any degree of inflammation in the fine
vessels of the motory nerves, or of the corresponding parts of the
brain, this may occasion convulsive motions ; and, for the same
reason, an inflammation in the sensory nerves, or their origins in
the brain, may occasion pain. Now it is reasonable to expect
such inflammations in many cases as a consequence of the ob
structions, and both convulsive motions and pains are often found
to attend paralytic affections.
Prop. XXIX.—To examine how far the Phcenomena attending
on venomous Bites and Stings are agreeable to the Doctrine of
Vibrations.
That the active liquors, infused by venomous animals after
they bite or sting, operate, in part, by the violent vibrations
which they excite in the living parts immediately affected, and
which are thence propagated along the nerves up to the brain,
and also along the surface of the body, by means of the con
tinuity and uniformity of the skin, may appear from the following
reasons :
First, As the solids and fluids seem, in general, equally con
cerned in all the natural functions, and morbid deviations from
them, it is most reasonable to refer part of the effects of venomous
bites and stings to each. But it is difficult to conceive how these
poisons should have any immediate effect upon the solid nervous
capillaments, but by agitating their parts.
. Secondly, The active particles of these poisons, which are
able, in so small a quantity, to produce such violent disorders,
and sometimes in a very short space of time, may well be
conceived able also to agitate the nervous parts with strong
vibrations.
Thirdly, If we suppose their first and most immediate effect
to be upon the fluids, yet this may, or must, be agitations, that
will afterwards be communicated to the solids.
Fourthly, The vibrations of the medullary particles, mentioned
in this theory, seem peculiarly suited to answer the several quick
and surprising effects of these poisons. The pain, swelling, red
ness, and lividness, all around the part affected, may easily be
derived from the vibrations propagated all around. Oils and fats,
rubbed upon the part, may, by damping these, prevent the- ill
80 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
effects. Vibrations, propagated either along the skin, through
the mouth and nose, or up to the brain, and thence along the
eighth pair of nerves, or, which is most probable, both ways, to
that very sensible part the stomach, may produce sickness and
vomitings. And if the gall-duct be contracted from the same
cause during the vomitings, a sudden jaundice will follow from
the violence with which the gall is forced back into the blood by
the action of vomiting. Joy, sorrow, fear, melancholy, may
easily follow according to the respective natures of the poisons,
because these, according to this theory, all arise from, and are
attended by, corresponding vibrations in the white medullary
substance of the brain. And a like account may be given of the
aversion to black, and the delight in glaring objects, and strong
colours. The corresponding nerves of different animals have
probably a general resemblance to each other, just as the cor
responding viscera and fluids have. And thus the poison of
rabid animals may have a peculiar power of affecting the nerves
of the fauces, and muscles of deglutition, so as to produce the
hydrophobia. Cold bathing also, and music, whose immediate
effects seem confined to the solids, to the exciting vibrations in
them, may cure respectively in the bite of a mad dog, and of the
tarantula.
However, what is here alleged is not at all to be so under
stood, as if the immediate effects of poisons upon the fluids were
not also very considerable. In some cases they may be greater,
in others less, than those exerted upon the solids. It seems
probable, that the poison is communicated from the fluids imme
diately affected to those at a distance, chiefly by means of the
serous vessels. For these, having numerous immediate com
munications with each other, will transmit it freely, and yet so
as that all the neighbouring parts may be affected somewhat in
proportion to their nearness to the seat of the injury, as they are
found in fact to be; whereas, were the diffusion of the poison to
be made by the circulation of the fluids alone, all the parts would
have an equal chance. But the propagation of the poison along
the solid capillaments of the nerves is also a principal reason why
the neighbouring parts are more affected than the distant ones.
The effects of inoculation bear a great resemblance to those of
venomous bites and stings ; and the same may be said of venereal
and other infections.
Prop. XXX.—To examine how far the tangible Qualities of
Bodies admit of an Explanation agreeable to the Doctrine of
Vibrations.
Hitherto we have considered only the more vigorous sensa
tions of feeling, such as may be called the pleasures and pains of
this sense. We come now to the feeble and adiaphorous sensa
tions. These are moisture, dryness, softness, with fluidity,
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 87
hardness, smoothness, roughness, motion, rest, distance, and
figure. Now it seems very easy to conceive, that these, with
their several varieties, may impress corresponding varieties of
vibrations upon the nerves of feeling ; also, that these last va
rieties will be chiefly compositions of the vibrations arising from
pressure, and muscular contraction, i. e. from the vis inertice j
of matter.
Thus, since moist bodies adhere to the fingers, and so leave a
smoothness with their own degree of cold or heat upon them,
moisture may be judged of by the touch from this peculiar
alteration of vibrations ; and dryness from the absence of it.
Liquid bodies make no alteration of figure in our fingers, and
yield easily to their motions : soft ones do the same in a less de
gree ; hard ones the contrary. Smooth bodies make an equable
pressure, and give no resistance to a motion along their surfaces ;
rough ones the contrary. The motions of our own bodies
are attended by the vibrations peculiar to pressure, and muscular
contraction ; of other bodies which touch our own, by those from
pressure. We judge of rest by the absence of these. Distance
is judged of by the quantity of motion, and figure by the relative
quantity of distance. And thus it appears, that all degrees and
kinds of these tangible qualities may impress corresponding
vibrations upon those regions of white medullary substance of
the brain, and spinal marrow, which correspond to the skin and
muscles.
The same qualities are made also by means of light to impress
vibrations upon our eyes, which correspond in great measure to
those made on the sense of feeling, so as to vary with their
varieties. And as the sense of sight is much more extensive and
expedite than feeling, we judge of tangible qualities chiefly by
sight; which therefore may be considered, agreeably to Bishop
Berkley's remark, as a philosophical language for the ideas of
feeling ; being, for the most part, an adequate representative
of them, and a language common to all mankind, and in
which they all agree very nearly, after a moderate degree of
experience.
However, if the informations from touch and sight disagree at
any time, we are always to depend upon touch, as that which,
according to the usual ways of speaking on these subjects, is the
true representation of the essential properties, i. e. as the earnest
and presage of what other tangible impressions the body under
consideration will make upon our feeling in other circumstances ;
also what changes it will produce in other bodies ; of which again
we are to determine by our feeling, if the visual language should
not happen to correspond to it exactly. And it is from this
difference that we call the touch the reality, light the repre
sentative : also that a person born blind may foretell with cer
tainty, from his present tangible impressions, what others would
follow upon varying the circumstances; whereas if we could
88 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
suppose a person to be born without feeling, and to arrive at
man's estate, he could not from his present visible impressions
judge what others would follow upon varying the circumstances.
Thus the picture of a knife, drawn so well as to deceive his
eye, would not, when applied to another body, produce the same
change of visible impressions, as a real knife does, when it sepa
rates the parts of the body through which it passes. But the
touch is not liable to these deceptions. As it is therefore the
fundamental source of information in respect of the essential
properties of matter, it may be considered as our first and prin
cipal key to the knowledge of the external world.
Prop. XXXI.— To explain in what Manner toe are enabled to
judge of the Seat of Impressions made on the external Surface
of our Bodies.
When we apply the parts of our bodies to each other, parti
cularly our hands to the several parts of the surface of our
bodies, we excite vibrations in both parts, viz. both in the hands,
and in that part of the surface which we touch. Suppose the
hand to pass over the surface gradually, and the first impression
will remain the same, while the last alters perpetually, because
the vibrations belonging to the last are excited in different
nerves, and by consequence enter the brain, or spinal marrow,
at different parts. And this difference in the last impression or
its vibrations, corresponding always to the part on which the
impression is made, will at last enable us to determine imme
diately what part of our bodies we touch ; i. e. what is the
distance of the part touched from the mouth, nose, shoulder,
elbow, or other remarkable part, considered as a fixed point.
For by passing frequently from the mouth, nose, &c. to the part
under consideration, children learn this very early, even without
attending to it at all explicitly.
Sight also helps us to judge of this distance in the parts, which
are frequently exposed to view, and this in proportion to that
frequency.
Let us suppose then, that we are able to determine at once
what external part of our bodies we touch, i.e. to determine
how it is situated in respect of the other parts, and to shew the
corresponding part in the body of another person ; it will follow,
that if a like impression be made not by our own hand, but by
that of another, or by any foreign body, we shall know at once
the part on which it is made. We shall also, supposing us
arrived at a sufficient degree of voluntary power over the
muscles, be able at once to put our hand upon the part on which
the impression is made.
By degrees we shall learn to distinguish the part, not only
when an impression like the gentle ones of our hands is made
upon it, but also when a vivid, rude, or painful one is. For,
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 89
first, all impressions made upon the same part agree in this,
whatever be their differences as to kind and degree, that they
enter by the same nerves, and at the same part of the brain, and
spinal marrow. Secondly, we impress a great variety of sensa
tions ourselves by our hands, according as they are hot or cold,
by friction, scratching, &c. and most impressions from foreign
bodies will bear some resemblance to some of these. Thirdly,
we often see upon what part impressions from foreign bodies
are made. Fourthly, when they leave permanent effects, as in
wounds, burns, &c. we always examine by feeling, where the
impression was made.
Now from all these things laid together it follows, that in
itchings from an internal cause, and in impressions where neither
our hand or eye give us any information, we shall, however, be
able to determine at once with tolerable accuracy what external
part is affected, and to put our hand upon it, so as to confirm our
present judgment, and render our future judgment, and volun
tary power, more certain and ready. We shall also do this most
readily in those parts which we see and feel most frequently, the
hands for instance ; less so, cocteris paribus, in those we seldom
see or feel ; and least .so, where we never see the part, and
seldom touch it. At least this seems to result from the theory.
But it is to be observed, that the fact ought to be tried chiefly in
children. For in adults the several degrees approach more to
perfection, i.e. to an equality among themselves.
Prop. XXXII. — To explain in what Manner, and to what
Degree, we are enabled to judge of the Seat of Internal
Pains.
Here we may observe, first, that as we never see or feel the
internal parts, such as the lungs, heart, stomach, intestines,
liver, kidneys, bladder, &c. we can have no direct information in
the manner explained under the foregoing proposition.
Secondly, Since all pains diffuse an increase of vibrations into
the neighbouring parts, the increased vibrations in the external
parts, arising from internal pains, will be a gross general direc
tion, so as to determine the seat of the pain within gross limits,
in respect of superior and inferior, anterior and posterior, right
and left.
Thirdly, Pressing the external parts, so as to augment or
alleviate the internal pain, must contribute also.
Fourthly, Since all the internal parts in the thorax and abdo
men receive branches from the intercostal nerve, which commu
nicates with each vertebral pair, it follows that the internal pains
will send vibrations up to the spinal marrow, which will enter in
at the same parts of it, as the vibrations from external pains in
the neighbourhood. At the same time it appears from the many
ganglions, plexuses, and communications of nerves, in the thorax
90 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
and abdomen, also from the origin and distribution of the nerves
of the cauda equina, that this can be no more than a gross
general direction ; and that the great number of sympathetic
influences from these causes, also from the running of vibrations
along membranes, and from their fixing particularly in nervous
parts or extreme ones, will give occasion to many deceptions
here, and in certain cases make the pain be felt, i.e. appear to
be, in parts at a considerable distance from the seat of the
disorder.
Fifthly, Suppose the patient to shew by the external parts
whereabouts his pain is felt internally, then the physician may,
from his knowledge of the situation of the internal parts in
respect of the external, guess pretty nearly what internal part is
affected.
Sixthly, The symptoms attending the pain, its cause and
consequences, compared with the natural functions of the parts,
with the history of diseases, and morbid dissections, will enable
the physician to determine with great precision in some cases,
and help a little in most.
Seventhly, When the patient has had long experience of the
same kind of internal pains, or of different ones, he describes more
exactly, and also gets certain fixed points, to which he refers his
pains.
Eighthly, Anatomists and physicians may sometimes judge
with great exactness in their own cases, having both a knowledge
of the parts, and their functions, and also their own feelings to
guide them.
This subject deserves a particular and accurate examination, it
being of great consequence to be able to discover the seat and
causa proximo of the distemper, from the complaints of the
patient, and from the previous, concomitant, and consequent
circumstances. I hope these two propositions may cast some
light upon it.
Here we may add an observation deducible from the doctrine
of association ; viz. As we learn by degrees, from impressions
made on the surfaces of our bodies, to attend particularly to the
sensations impressed on, or existing in, each part, at pleasure,
*. e. to magnify the vibrations which take place in it ; so after
disorders in the internal parts, the associated circumstances seem
often to renew the painful vibrations there, and to occasion
either the return of the like disorder, or some other ; at least to
have a considerable share in these effects, when produced by
their causes in an inferior degree. Thus disorders in the
bowels, caused at first by acrid impressions, lay the foundation
for a return of like disorders on less occasions. Thus women
that have often miscarried, seem to irritate the muscular fibres
of the uterus by the recollection of the associated circumstances,
and so to dispose themselves to miscarry more than according to
the mere bodily tendency ; fear and concern having also a great
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 91
influence here. All this will be farther illustrated by what
follows under the next proposition.
Prop. XXXIII. To explain in what Manner, and to what
Degree, the Pleasures and Pains of Feeling contribute, accord
ing to the Doctrine of Association, to the Formation of our
intellectual Pleasures and Pains.
It follows from the foregoing account of the power of leaving
traces and of association, that all the pains from intense heat and
cold, wounds, inflammations, &c. will leave a disposition in the
nervous system to run into miniature vibrations of the same kind,
and that these miniature vibrations will be excited chiefly by the
associated circumstances. That is to say, the appearance of the
fire, or of a knife, especially in circumstances like to those in
which the child was burnt or cut, will raise up in the child's
nervous system painful vibrations of the same kind with, but
- less in degree than, those which the actual burn or wound
occasioned.
By degrees these miniature pains will be transferred upon the
words, and other symbols, which denote these and such-like
objects and circumstances : however, as the diffusion is greater,
/ the pain transferred from a single cause must become less. But
then, since a great variety of particular miniatures are transferred
upon each word, since also the words expressing the several pains
of feeling, affect each other by various associations, and each of
them transfers a miniature of its own miniature upon more
general words, &c. it comes to pass at last, that the various
verbal and other symbols of the pains of feeling, also of other
pains bodily and mental, excite a compound vibration formed
from a variety of miniatures, which exceeds ordinary actual
pains in strength. These compound vibrations will also have a
general resemblance, and particular differences in respect of each
other.
It follows therefore a priori, as one may say, and by a syn
thetic kind of demonstration, that admitting the powers of leaving
traces, and of association, compound or mental pains will arise <
from simple bodily ones by means of words, symbols, and asso
ciated circumstances. And they seem to me to answer in kind
and degree to the facts in general. If, farther, we admit the
doctrine of vibrations, then these compound mental pains will
arise from, or be attended by, violent vibrations in the nervous
system, and particularly in the brain.
Agreeably to this account, we may observe that the mere
words denoting bodily pains, though not formed into propositions
or threatenings, affect children. However, since there happen
daily associations of the mere words with freedom and security,
and of propositions and threatenings with sufferings, children
learn by degrees to confine their fear, sorrow, &c. to those things
92 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
which are esteemed the genuine signs, reasons, causes, &c. of
sufferings. This is the case in general; but there are great
particular differences both in children and adults ; which yet, if
accurately pursued, would probably not only be consistent with,
but even confirm and illustrate, the doctrine of association.
And we may conclude upon the whole, since the pains of
feeling are far more numerous and violent than those of all the
other senses put together, that the greatest part of our intellec
tual pains are deducible from them.
In like manner the pleasures of an agreeable warmth, and
refreshing coolness, when we are cold or hot respectively, of
gentle friction and titillation, leave traces of themselves, which
by association are made to depend upon words, and other
symbols. But these pleasures, being faint and rare in com
parison of others, particularly of those of taste, have but a small
share in forming the intellectual pleasures. Titillation may
perhaps be excepted. For laughter, which arises from it, is a
principal pleasure in young children, and a principal source of
the other pleasures, particularly of those of sociality and bene
volence. Farther, since the miniatures left by the pains of
feeling must in some cases be faint originally, in others decline
from the diffusion, the faintness of the association, &c. these
miniature pains will often fall within the limits of pleasure, and
consequently become sources of intellectual pleasure ; as in
recollecting certain pains, in seeing battles, storms, wild beasts,
or their pictures, or reading descriptions of them.
Prop. XXXIV.—To give an Account of the Ideas generated by
tangible Impressions.
Here it may be observed, first, that the very words, burn,
wound, &c. seem even in adults, though not formed into proposi
tions, or heightened by a conjunction of circumstances, to excite,
for the most part, a perception of the disagreeable kind ; however,
so faint in degree, that it may be reckoned amongst the number
of ideas, agreeably to the definitions given in the Introduction.
Secondly, The words expressing the pleasures of this sense are
probably attended with perceptions, though still fainter in degree.
These perceptions may therefore be called the ideas belonging to
those words.
Thirdly, The words moist, dry, soft, hard, smooth, rough, can
scarce be attended with any distinguishable vibrations in the
fingers, or parts of the brain corresponding thereto, on account
of the faintness of the original impressions, and the great varieties
of them ; however, analogy leads us to think, that something of
this kind must happen in a low degree. But when the qualities
themselves are felt, and the appropriated vibrations raised, they
lead by association to the words expressing them; and thus we
can distinguish the several tangible qualities from each other by
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 93
the differences of their vibrations, and declare in words what
each is.
Fourthly, The vibrations excited in the sense of feeling by
motion, distance, and figure, are so faint, and so various, that
neither these words, nor any related expressions, can be supposed
to excite any miniature vibrations in this sense. Yet still upon
feeling motions and figures, and passing over distances, the differ
ences of vibrations from pressure and muscular contraction, i. e.
from the vis inertia; of our own bodies, or of foreign matter,
suggest to us the words expressing these, with their varieties, by
association.
Fifthly, The great extent of the sense of feeling tends to make
the miniatures fainter, especially as far as the external parts are
concerned ; and would probably have so powerful an effect upon
the miniatures raised in the internal parts, as to make them by
opposing destroy one another, did not all the impressions of the
same nature, viz. all those from heat, from cold, from friction, &c.
by whatever external part they enter, produce nearly the same
effect upon the brain. "Whence the several miniatures left by
particular impressions of the same kind must strengthen one
another in the internal parts, at the same time that they obliterate
one another in the external ones. However, where a person has
suffered much by a particular wound, ulcer, &c. it seems, accord
ing to the theory, that an idea of it should be left in the part
affected, or corresponding region of the brain, or spinal marrow.
Sixthly, The visible ideas of the bodies which impress the
several sensations of feeling upon us, are, like all other visible
ones, so vivid and definite, that they mix themselves with, and
somewhat obscure, the most vivid ideas of feeling, and quite over
power the faint ones. Sight communicates to us at once the size,
shape, and colour of objects ; feeling cannot do the last at all, and
the two first only in a tedious way ; and is scarce ever employed
for that purpose by those who see. Hence persons born blind
must have far more vivid and definite ideas of feeling than others.
An inquiry into their real experiences would greatly contribute
to correct, illustrate, and improve, the theory of ideas, and their
associations.
Prop. XXXV.—To explain the automatic Motions, which arise
from tangible Impressions.
The principal of these is the action of crying, which is in all
animals, but especially young ones, the natural and necessary
consequence of pain. I have already given some account of this
action ; but will here enter into a more particular detail of the
circumstances, and their agreement with the foregoing theory.
Let us suppose then a young child to have a very painful im
pression made upon the skin, as by a burn. It is plain that the
violent vibrations excited in the injured part will pass up to the
94 THE SENSE OF FEELING.
brain, and over the whole muscular system, immediately; putting
all the muscles into a state of contraction, as much as may be,
*. e. making the strongest set of muscles everywhere overpower
the weaker, for a certain time, and then give place to them for a
certain other time, and so on alternately. Since therefore the
muscles of expiration are stronger than those of inspiration, the
air will be forced strongly out of the thorax through the larynx,
and, by consequence, yield a sound. It contributes to this, that
the muscles of the os hyoides and larynx, acting all together, and
drawing different ways, must suspend the cartilages of the larynx,
so as both to narrow the passage of the air, and also render these
cartilages more susceptible of vibrations. As to the muscles
which contract and dilate the larynx, they are perhaps about
equal in strength to each other, and therefore may, by opposing
each other, keep the chink in a state intermediate between its
least and greatest dilatation.
That the strongest set of antagonist muscles overpower the
weaker, during the great effort in crying, may farther appear
from the action of the extensors of the neck, and flexors of the
hand (both which sets are stronger than their antagonists), at
that time.
If it be objected here, that the elevators of the lower jaw,
being stronger than the depressors, ought to keep the mouth shut
during the action of crying, according to the foregoing reasoning,
whereas the contrary always happens ; I answer, first, that when
both these sets of muscles act at the same time, in proportion to
their natural strength, the mouth ought to be a little opened;
secondly, that the vibrations which take place in the cartilages of
the larynx seem to impart a peculiar degree of force to all the
neighbouring muscles, i. e. to the depressors of the lower jaw ;
and, thirdly, that the muscles which pass from the larynx and
os hyoides to the lower jaw act to an advantage in drawing it
down, in the present case, because the os hyoides is at this time
fixed by its other muscles.
The distortions of the face, which happen previously to crying,
and during the course of it, seem to be sufficiently agreeable to
the notions here advanced ; the muscles, which draw the lips
from each other, being much stronger, than those which close them.
The manner in which titillation occasions laughter in its auto
matic state, has been already explained. We may add here, that
touching the cheeks of young children gently will excite smiling.
Friction also occasions many automatic motions in young
children, as may be observed when their naked bodies, or hairy
scalps, are rubbed by the nurse's hand; the motion being deter
mined in these cases, as appears, by the strength and vicinity of
the muscles.
The contraction of the hand in young children, which has been
taken notice of already, may be excited by titillation, friction,
and almost any impression on the palm; and is to be deduced
THE SENSE OF FEELING. 95
partly from the superior strength of the flexors here, partly from
the exquisite sensibility of the palm. The contraction of the foot
from impressions made on the sole is analogous to that of the hand.
It may not perhaps be amiss to add here, that the cellular sub
stance intervenes less between the skin and subjacent muscles in
the scalp, palm, and sole, than in other parts, as appears both
from anatomical inspection and emphysemas ; and that this may
increase the influence of the impressions on these parts over the
subjacent muscles.
Prop. XXXVI.—To explain the Manner in which the automatic
Motions, mentioned in the last Proposition, are converted into
voluntary and semi-voluntary ones.
This has been done, in some measure, already, in respect of
the actions of crying, and contracting the hand, and their deriva
tives, speaking and handling ; and will be done more completely
hereafter in a proposition appropriated to the distinct considera
tion of the motions that are perfectly voluntary. I have therefore
inserted the present proposition chiefly for the sake of regularity,
and that the reader might have in one short view, from the pro
positions of this section, all the principal heads of inquiry relating
to the sense of feeling.
It may not, however, be improper here to observe, that the
great variety of frictions, flexures, and positions, which nurses
give to yoirng children, make a proportional variety of combina
tions of muscles which act together ; and that these, by opposing
the natural ones from juxtaposition, derivation of nerves, &c. to
a certain degree, prepare the way for such voluntary combina
tions as are requisite in the future incidents of life.
SECT. II.
OF THE SENSE OF TASTE.
Prop. XXXVII.— To assign the Extent of the Organ of Taste,
and to explain, in general, the different Powers lodged in the
different Parts of it.
The taste may be distinguished into two kinds, as before
observed of feeling ; viz. the particular exquisite one, which
resides in the tongue, and especially in the tip of it ; and the
general one, which extends itself to the insides of the lips and
cheeks, to the palate, fauces, oesophagus, stomach, and whole
alimentary duct, quite down to the anus ; the sensibility growing
9G THE SENSE OF TASTE.
perhaps less and less, perpetually, in going from the stomach to
the rectum. The sensibility of the alimentary duct is probably
of the same kind with, and not much greater in degree than, that
of the internal surfaces of the gall-bladder, urinary bladder, pelvis,
ureters, and, in general, of the secretory and excretory vessels,
and of the receptacles belonging to the glands. But I refer the
sensations of this duct to the taste, on account of their connexion
with those of the tongue, in respect of their causes, uses, and
effects.
As to the particular and superior powers of the tongue, they
may, in part, be deduced from the number and largeness of its
papilla, and from their rising above the surface in living persons
more remarkably than any other sentient papillae in the whole
body, so as to be extreme parts in an eminent degree. To which
we ought perhaps to add, that the tip and sides, in which the
taste is most exquisite, are also extreme parts. But there may
be likewise a different peculiar distribution, and other causes of
an exquisite sensibility, in the nerves of the tongue.
It deserves notice here, that the friction of the tongue against
the palate is necessary, in order to excite the tastes of the ali
ments, which we masticate, in perfection. This practice is
analogous to that of rubbing the ends of the fingers upon such
bodies as we examine accurately by feeling ; and both appear
suitable to the notion of vibrations; also to that of the distention
and erection of the sentient papilla : which may even be seen in
the papillue of the tongue.
It has been observed, that bitters and acids applied to funguses
of the brain, and even to issues upon the vertex, have sometimes
occasioned the sensations of the tastes respectively arising from
the same bitters and acids, when applied to the tongue. This
may perhaps be solved by supposing, that the bitters and acids,
when applied to the nerves of the fifth pair, in the funguses
of the brain, and to those of the seventh, or perhaps of the fifth
also, in the issues (for the fifth pair may transmit some branches
to the external integuments from the dura mater, at the vertex),
send up their own specific vibrations into those regions of the
brain, which are the peculiar residence of tastes, i. e. to the
regions which correspond to the fifth pair, according to some
anatomists. And these sensations may even afford some evi
dence, that the fifth pair, not the ninth, supplies the tongue with
sensory nerves.
Prop. XXXVIII.—To examine how far the Phanomena of
Tastes, and their specific Differences, are suitable to the Doc
trine of Vibrations.
Here I observe, first, that heating any sapid liquid increases
its taste, especially if it be of the bitter, spirituous, or acrid kind ;
and, conversely, that the impression of such tastes generates a
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 97
heat in the organ, which remains after the peculiar taste ceases.
Now this connexion of certain tastes with heat is some presump
tion, that they arise from vibrations, provided we allow heat to
arise from them, according to the common opinion.
Secondly, Since disagreeable tastes must, according to the
account of pain given above, arise from such a violence in the
vibrations excited, as produce the solution of continuity, and
pleasant tastes, from more moderate degrees of vibrations, which,
though they approach to the solution of continuity, yet fall short
of it; the pains of taste must proceed from stronger vibrations
than the pleasures. And, agreeably to this, bodies which im
press very active and disagreeable tastes, manifest great activity
in other trials for the most part.
Thirdly, It is very difficult to give any plausible account of
the great variety of pleasant and unpleasant tastes from the
doctrine of vibrations. However, the different frequency of
vibrations, which belongs to the small particles of different sapid
bodies, may be, in a good measure, the source of this great
variety. For if the particles of the body A oscillate twice, while
those of the body B oscillate only once, the sensations excited by
them may be different, though both fall within the limits of
pleasure, or both pass into those of pain. The differences of
degree may also contribute; for it is observable, that different
disagreeable tastes, in declining, leave agreeable ones, which
approach to each other. This I have experienced in aloes, lime,
and green tea not sweetened. It may therefore be, that th.e
different disagreeable tastes were such rather on account of
degree than kind. And, upon the whole, it may be, that the
several combinations of the differences of kind with those of
degree maybe sufficient in number to account for all the varieties
and specific differences of tastes.
Fourthly, Tastes appear to be more different than they are
from the odours which accompany some of them. And this
observation, by reducing the number of tastes properly so called,
does somewhat lessen the difficulty of accounting for their
number. But then it is also to be observed, that part of this
difficulty is to be transferred to the head of odours.
Fifthly, The power of distinguishing tastes seems to depend
upon sight, to a certain degree. And this consideration also
lessens the number of tastes properly so called.
Sixthly, If we suppose the sapid body to consist of particles,
that excite vibrations of different frequencies, which may be the
case of many bodies in their natural state, and probably must be
with such as are compounded by art, compound medicines for
instance, a great variety of tastes may arise, some resembling the
tastes of simple bodies, others totally unlike these : just as some
of the colours reflected by natural and artificial bodies resemble
one or other of the simple primary ones, whilst others are colours
that can scarce be referred to any of these. And we may
, H
98 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
farther suppose, in both cases, that where the vibrations approach
so near in frequency as to overrule each other, and produce one
species only, there results a taste, or a colour, that resembles a
primary one ; whereas, if the vibrations differ so much in fre
quency, as that two or more principal species keep their own
frequency, the taste, or colour generated from them, cannot be
likened to any primary one.
Seventhly, That there are different species of vibrations,
which yet all constitute sweet or bitter, I conjecture not only
from the foregoing general reasoning, but also because there are
both sweets and bitters in all the three kingdoms, animal, vegeta
ble, and mineral. Thus milk, sugar, and saccharum Saturni, all
yield a sweet taste ; gall, aloes, and crystals of silver, all a bitter
one.
Eighthly, Some differences of taste may arise from the different
time required for the solution, and consequent activity, of the
sapid particles, also from the different local effect which they
may have upon the papilla, when absorbed by their venous
vessels, &c.
Ninthly, Very nauseous and stupefacient tastes may perhaps
arise from violent and irregular vibrations, and bear some analogy
to the sensation, or want of it, impressed by the stroke of the
torpedo.
Tenthly, It seems to deserve particular consideration here,
that milk, and the flesh of certain domestic animals, yield tastes,
which are naturally and originally pleasant, to a considerable
degree, and yet not in excess, as sugar, and other very sweet
bodies, are. For it is reasonable to conclude, that the particles
of milk, and common flesh-meats, must agree very much in the
strength and frequency of vibrations with the particles of our
own solids and fluids. They may therefore just moderately
increase the natural vibrations of the organ, when applied
thereto, and enforced by suction, mastication, and friction of the
tongue against the palate. For the same reasons we may guess,
that the common diet of animals does not undergo very great
changes, in respect of the vibratory motions of its particles, from
its circulation, and consequent assimilation. However, there are
some eminent instances to the contrary, especially in poisons.
These last observations may be extended to vegetables, salutary
and poisonous, respectively.
Eleventhly, Some acrid tastes, that of mustard for instance,
affect the tip of the uvula, and the edge of the soft palate, in a
particular manner. Now this may a little confirm the conjectures
above made concerning the sensibility and irritability of extreme
parts.
Twelfthly, It is easy to conceive, upon the principles of these
papers, how sweets and bitters of an inferior degree should
render those of a superior one less affecting, respectively, as they
are found to do.
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 99
The foregoing articles are only imperfect conjectures, and do
not even approach to a satisfactory solution. They may just
serve to shew, that the doctrine of vibrations is as suitable to the
phaenomena of tastes, as . any other hypothesis yet proposed.
The following methods may perhaps be of some use for the
analysis of tastes.
First, To make trials upon bodies whose particles seem similar
to each other. Such are perhaps distilled spirits, acid, alkaline,
and fermented ; also salts and oils ; but they must all be suffi
ciently purified by repeated distillations, solutions, and such-like
chemical operations; else we are sure, that their component
particles are heterogeneous.
Secondly, To note the changes of taste in chemical operations,
and compare them with the changes of colour ; which last, by
discovering the sizes of the particles, may determine many things
relating to their mutual actions. The solutions of metals in
acids, by affording many singular and vivid tastes, and sometimes
colours, seem to deserve especial notice here.
Thirdly, There are many regular changes in natural bodies,
which, by comparison with other phaenomena, may be of use.
Thus it is remarkable, that the juice of many or most fruits is
first acid, i. e. whilst unripe, then sweet, then vinous, after the
first fermentation, then acid again, after the second fermentation.
This inquiry is of great importance in medicine and philosophy.
And the theory of tastes appears capable of becoming a principal
guide in discovering the mutual actions of the small particles of
bodies. The difficulty is to make 'a beginning. This theory may
not perhaps be more complex than that of colours ; one may, at
least, affirm, that the theory of colours appeared as complex and
intricate before Sir Isaac Newton's time, as that of tastes does
now ; which is some encouragement to make an attempt.
Prop. XXXIX.—To examine how far the several Sensations
which affect the Stomach and Bowels, may be explained agree
ably to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
It will easily be conceived, that if tastes, properly so called,
(of which under the last proposition) favour, or suit with, the
doctrine of vibrations, the sensations of the stomach and bowels
may likewise. But a particular examination of these sensations,
and comparison of them with tastes, will make this more evident.
First, then, we may observe, that the stomach is less sensible
than the tongue, the bowels in general than the stomach, and the
inferior bowels than the superior. Thus opium, and bitters, and
sometimes spirituous liquors, are disagreeable to the tongue, but
fall within the limits of pleasure in the stomach. Thus bile is
extremely nauseous in the mouth, and offends even the stomach ;
but it cannot be disagreeable to the duodenum, which it first
enters, or the bowels, through which it passes. Thus also the
100 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
faces seem to be equally suited to the several bowels along which
they descend, though they grow perpetually more putrid and
acrimonious in their descent ; i. e. there is an abatement of sen
sibility in the bowels, which corresponds to the increase ofacrimony
in the faces.
If it be objected here, that honey, mercurius dulcis, &c. offend
the stomach and bowels often, though pleasant or insipid in the
mouth, I answer, that such bodies require time, heat, solution, &c.
before the whole of their qualities can be exerted.
Secondly, The particular manner in which opiates, fermented
liquors, grateful aliments, and narcotics, may act first upon the
stomach and bowels, and afterwards upon the whole body, agree
ably to the doctrine of vibrations, has been given above in treating
of sleep.
Thirdly, The action of vomits, purges, and acrid poisons, such
as corrosive sublimate, is very reconcileable to this doctrine, by
only supposing, that they excite very vigorous vibrations, and
that these are communicated to the muscular coats of the stomach
and bowels, to the muscles of the abdomen, and, in violent cases,
to the whole muscular and nervous system. I shall consider the
automatic motions, which arise from these causes, below, under
a particular proposition. It may serve to shew the analogy of
the sensations, and the general nature of active medicines, to
observe, that these will often operate in several ways, viz. as
vomits, purges, diuretics, diaphoretics, sternutatories, vesicatories,
and corrosives, by a change of application and circumstances.
Fourthly, Since the meats, to which particular persons have
an antipathy, and from which they receive violent ill effects, are,
in general, highly grateful to others, one may perhaps conjecture,
that the vibrations excited by these meats in the stomachs of
those who have an antipathy to them, do but just pass the limits
of pleasure ; so as to diffuse themselves much farther, and more
powerfully, than if the first impression was very painful.
Lastly, The connexion between the sensations of the tongue
and stomach, and consequently between the manners of explain
ing them, may be inferred from the office of the taste, as a guide
and guard to the organs of digestion ; which is very evident, in
general, in all animals, notwithstanding a few exceptions, more
especially in men.
Prop. XL.—To examine how far the Phenomena of Hunger are
agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Natural hunger may be reckoned a pleasure in its first rise,
and to pass into a pain only by increase and continuance. We
may suppose therefore, that during hunger the nerves of the
stomach are so irritable, as that the common motions of the
muscular coat, and the impressions made by its contents in con
sequence of these motions, excite such vigorous vibrations, as
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 101
first lie within the limits of pleasure, and afterwards pass into
the limits of pain. And when the sight of food, or any other
associated circumstance, increases the sense of hunger instantane
ously, it may be conjectured to do so, in great measure, by in
creasing the contractions of the muscular coat of the stomach.
But the sensibility and irritability of the nerves of the tongue
are also increased by hunger ; for common aliments yield a very
different taste, according as the person is satiated or hungry.
And it is probable farther, that the nerves of the upper part of
the bowels sympathize with those of the stomach in hunger ; and
increase the uneasy sensation, in violent degrees of it.
Let us now consider in what way food may be supposed to
lessen this sensibility and irritability of the nerves of the tongue,
stomach, and bowels ; and how abstinence, bitters, wines, &c.
may increase them, upon the principles of these papers.
First then, As the small absorbing vessels in the mouth, sto
mach, and bowels, must, after eating for some time, be saturated
with alimentary particles, those that are now applied will scarce
make any impression for want of a sufficient attraction.
Secondly, Such as are attracted cannot make any considerable
difference of vibrations, because the vibrations which they are
qualified to excite, do already take place. And these two re
marks, put together, shew, that a person may relish a second
kind of food after being satiated with a first.
Thirdly, The actions of mastication, deglutition, and digestion,
exhaust the neighbouring glands and glandular receptacles of
their liquids, and the neighbouring muscular fibres of their ready
power of contracting : these parts are therefore no longer suscep
tible of a pleasurable state, or only in a low degree.
Fourthly, Abstinence reverses all these steps; in which, how
ever, the perpetual affusion, dilution, and ablution of the saliva
has a considerable share. And thus after a proper interval the
organs return to a state of great sensibility and irritability.
Fifthly, Bitters and acids exhibited in a moderate degree seem
gently to increase the vibratory motions, and raise them before
the due time to the degree that corresponds to hunger. A small
quantity of food has the same effect, also agreeable motions of
mind, fresh air, exercise, and many other things. But if the
bitters, acids, &c. be carried beyond a certain degree, they
occasion pain or sickness, which is very agreeable to the doctrine
of vibrations, as laid down in these papers.
Sixthly, In fevers, the mouth, fauces, oesophagus, and stomach,
are hot, dry, inflamed, and incrusted. They are therefore pre
occupied by vibrations of a kind quite different from those which
attend hunger, and therefore exclude this state.
It may not be amiss to observe here, that the sensation of
hunger is a guide and guard to the organs of digestion in a still
more eminent degree, than the tastes of the several aliments.
10:2 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
Prop. XLI.—To examine how far the Phenomena of Thirst are
agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Thirst is opposite to hunger, and is a general attendant upon
fevers. It follows also, in an evident manner, from all conside
rable degrees of heat in the fauces. The nerves therefore of the
mouth, fauces, oesophagus, and stomach,, are, during thirst, pre
occupied by disagreeable vibrations, of the inflammatory kind,
as above observed. And as the pleasures of taste may be said to
resemble those of tifiliation, so thirst seems allied to itching.
It is agreeable to this account of thirst, that liquors actually
cold afford immediate relief; also that warm diluents, which
soften the parts, and wash off acrimonious particles, do it after
some time. As the cause of thirst is of a permanent nature in
fevers, it must return again and again, till the fever be removed.
Gentle acids yield a pleasure in thirst, which seems to correspond
to that which scratching excites, in parts that itch previously.
Prop. XLII.—To examine how far the Changes generally made
in the Taste, in passingfrom Infancy to Old Age, are agreeable
to the Doctrines of Vibrations and Association.
Some of these changes are,
That sweets generally grow less and less agreeable, and some
times even disagreeable, or nauseous at last.
That astringent, acid, and spirituous liquids, which displease
at first, afterwards become highly grateful.
That even bitters and acrids first lose their offensive qualities,
and after a sufficient repetition give a relish to our aliment.
And that many particular foods and medicines become either
extremely pleasant or disgusting, from associations, with fashion,
joy, hope of advantage, hunger, the pleasures of cheerful conver
sation, &c. or with sickness, vomitings, gripings, fear, sorrow, &c.
Now, in order to account for these changes, we may consider
the following things.
First, That the organs become less and less sensible by age,
from the growing callosity and rigidity of all the parts of animal
bodies. The pleasant savours may therefore be expected to be
come less pleasant, and the moderately disagreeable ones to fall
down within the limits of pleasure, upon this account.
Secondly, The disposition to vibrations in the organ and cor
responding part of the brain must also receive some alteration by
the frequent repetition of impressions. For though this returns,
at a proper distance from each meal, to its former state, within
an indefinite distance, as one may say, yet some difference there
probably is, upon the whole, which in a sufficient length of time
amounts to a perceptible one. However, we must also suppose
on the other hand, that the make of the nervous system sets some
bounds to this gradual alteration in the disposition to vibrate ;
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 103
else the taste would be much more variable than it is, and con
tinue to change more after adult age, than it is found to do in
fact. It may perhaps change faster in the use of a high diet
than of a low one ; which would be an evidence of the reality of
the cause here assigned.
Thirdly, The pleasant and painful impressions which particular
foods and medicines make upon the stomach, always either ac
company the taste, or follow it in a short time ; and by this
means an association is formed, whereby the direct pleasantness
or nauseousness of the taste is enhanced, if the impressions upon
the tongue and stomach be of the same kind ; or diminished,
and perhaps overpowered, and even converted into its opposite,
if they be of different kinds. For if the two impressions A and
B, made upon the tongue and stomach respectively, be repeated
together for a sufficient number of times, b will always attend
A upon the first moment of its being made. If therefore B be
of such a magnitude as to leave a trace b sufficiently great, the
addition of this trace b to A, the impression made upon the
tongue, may produce all the changes in it above-mentioned, ac
cording to their several natures and proportions. This follows
from the doctrine of association, as it takes place in general ; but
here the free propagation of vibrations from the stomach to the
mouth, along the surface of the membranes, adds a particular
force. In like manner a disagreeable taste, by being often mixed
with a pleasant one, may at last become pleasant alone, and vice
versd ; hunger and satiety may also, by being joined with par
ticular tastes, contribute greatly to augment or abate their relish.
And I believe it is by the methods of this third kind, that the
chief and most usual changes in the taste are made.
Fourthly, The changes which are made by associations with
mental pleasures and pains, or bodily ones not belonging to this
organ, as with fine colours, music, &c. receive a like explication
as the last-mentioned instances of associations. Here the plea
sure excited in the eye or ear overrules the taste at first : after
wards we may suppose the organ to be so altered by degrees, in
respect of the disagreeable taste, from its frequent impression, or
other cause, as to have the solution of continuity no longer occa
sioned by its action. It is probable also, that the evanescent
pleasures of sight and hearing, at least pleasant vibrations in the
parts of the brain corresponding to these two organs, accompany
these tastes ever afterwards.
It may be observed here, that the desire of particular foods
and liquors is much more influenced by the associated circum
stances, than their tastes, it being very common for these circum
stances, particularly the sight or smell of the food or liquor, to
prevail against men's better judgment, directing them to forbear,
and warning them of the mischiefs likely to arise from self-
indulgence.
104 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
Prop. XLIII.—To examine how far the Longings of pregnant
Women are agreeable to the Doctrines of Vibrations and
Association.
Here we must lay down previously, that the uterus is in a
state of distention during pregnancy; and that it propagates sym
pathetic influences by means of nervous communications to the
stomach, so as to put it into a state of great sensibility and irrita
bility. All this will be easily acknowledged.
It follows therefore, since the limits of pleasure and pain are
contiguous, that the stomach during pregnancy may at some
times have an eager appetite for food, as well as a nausea at
others; that this appetite may be the more eager, because it
borders upon a nausea ; and that it will no more answer to the
usual exigencies and circumstances of the body, than the nausea
does. The same eager appetite will bring up the ideas of various
aliments from prior associations ; and if a new association of it,
when particularly eager, happen to be made with this or that
food or liquor, the sympathetic eager appetite will ever after
bring in the idea of that food or liquor, and adhere inseparably
to it. The same eager appetite may also be transferred upon
something that is not properly a food, from its exorbitant nature,
prior nauseas in respect of common food, and accidental joint
appearance. And, upon the whole, the usual circumstances
attending the longings of pregnant women are deducible from
association, and are as agreeable to the doctrine of vibrations, as
to any other yet proposed ; or even more so.
It may illustrate this account to observe, that in the usual
cases of melancholy madness, an uneasy state seems to be intro
duced into the white medullary substance of the brain by the
degeneration of the humours, or other such-like mechanical cause,
which carries the vibrations within the limits of pain, and raises
an inflammation sui generis in the infinitesimal vessels of the
medullary substance ; that ideas of objects of fear, sorrow, &c.
are raised, in consequence of this, by means of prior associations;
and that after some time, some one of these, by happening to be
presented oftener than the rest, by falling more in with the bodily
indisposition, &c. overpowers all the rest, excites and is excited
by the bodily state of fear, sorrow, &c. till at last the person
becomes quite irrational in respect of this one idea, and its imme
diate and close associates, however rational he may be in other
respects. And a like account may be given of the violent parti
cular desire towards a person of a different sex, where this desire
rests chiefly in the sensual gratification, and the beauty of the
person. And all these three instances seem to me to favour the
doctrine of vibrations a little, as well as that of association very
much.
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 105
Prop. XLIV.—To explain in what Manner, and to what Degree,
pleasant and unpleasant Tastes contribute, according to the
Doctrine of Association, to form our intellectual Pleasures and
Pains.
The pleasures of the taste, considered as extending itself from
the mouth through the whole alimentary duct, are very consi
derable, and frequently repeated ; they must therefore be one
chief means, by which pleasurable states are introduced into the
brain, and nervous system. These pleasurable states must, after
some time, leave miniatures of themselves, sufficiently strong to
be called up upon slight occasions, viz. from a variety of associa
tions with the common visible and audible objects, and to illumi
nate these, and their ideas. When groups of these miniatures
have been long and closely connected with particular objects,
they coalesce i^to one complex idea, appearing, however, to be
a simple one; and so begin to be transferred upon other objects,
and even upon tastes back again, and so on without limits. And
from this way of reasoning it may now appear, that a great part
of our intellectual pleasures are ultimately deducible from those
of taste ; and that one principal final cause of the greatness and
constant recurrency of these pleasures, from our first infancy to
the extremity of old age, is to introduce and keep up pleasurable
states in the brain, and to connect them with foreign objects.
The social pleasures seem, in a particular manner, to be derived
from this source ; since it has been customary in all ages and
nations, and is, in a manner, necessary, that we should enjoy the
pleasures of taste in conjunction with our relatives, friends, and
neighbours.
In like manner nauseous tastes, and painful impressions upon
the alimentary duct, give rise and strength to mental pains. The
most common of these painful impressions is that from excess,
and the consequent indigestion. This excites and supports those
uneasy states, which attend upon melancholy, fear, and sorrow.
It appears also to me, that these states are introduced, in a
great degree, during sleep, during the frightful dreams, agita
tions, and oppressions, that excess in diet occasions in the night.
These dreams and disorders are often forgotten ; but the uneasy
states of body, which then happen, leave vestiges of them
selves, which increase in number and strength every day from
the continuance of the cause, till at last they are ready to be
called up in crowds upon slight occasions, and the unhappy
person is unexpectedly, and at once, as it were, seized with a
great degree of the hypochondriac distemper, the obvious cause
appearing no ways proportionable to the effect. And thus it
may appear, that there ought to be a great reciprocal influence
jetween the mind and alimentary duct, agreeably to common
observation ; which is farther confirmed by the very large number
of nerves distributed there.
106 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
Prop. XLV. — To give an Account of the Ideas generated by
the several Tastes.
As the pleasures of taste are in general greater than those of
feeling, and the pains in general less, it follows that the ideas
which are affixed to the several words expressing the several
pleasant and unpleasant tastes, will be of a middle nature in
respect of the ideas generated by tangible impressions ; and lie
between the ideas of the pains of feeling, and those of its
pleasures.
Agreeably to this, it seems very difficult, or even impossible,
to excite a genuine vivid miniature of an acid, sweet, salt, or
bitter taste, by the mere force of imagination. However, the
vibrations peculiar to each of these leave such vestiges of them
selves, such an effect in the tongue, and corresponding parts of
the brain, as, upon tasting the qualities themselves, at once to
bring up the names whereby they are expressed, with many
other associated circumstances, particularly the visible appear
ances of the bodies endued with these qualities. And these
vestiges may be called ideas. Analogy leads us also to conclude,
as before observed under feeling, that some faint vestiges or
ideas must be raised in the parts of the brain corresponding to
the tongue, upon the mere passage of each word, that expresses
a remarkable taste, over the ear. And, when the imagination is
assisted by the actual sight or smell of a highly grateful food, we
seem able to raise au idea of a perceptible magnitude. This is
confirmed by the manifest effect exerted upon the mouth, and its
glands, in such cases.
The sight of what we eat or drink seems also, in several
instances, to enable us to judge more accurately of the taste and
flavour ; which ought to be effected, according to this theory, by
raising small ideas of the taste and flavour, and magnifying the
real impression in consequence thereof. For an actual impression
must excite vibrations considerably different, according to the
difference in the previous ones ; and where the previous ones
are of the same kind with those impressed, the last must be
magnified.
Prop. XLVI.—To explain the automatic Motions, which arise
from the Impressions made on the Organ of Taste.
The motions dependent on the sensations of the tongue, and
alimentary duct, may be thus enumerated : suction, mastication,
deglutition, the distortion of the mouth and face in consequence
of nauseous tastes, the peristaltic motion of the stomach and
bowels, vomiting, ructus, hiccough, spasms, and violent motions
in the bowels, the motions which empty the neighbouring glands,
and the expulsion of the fceces.
First, then, Suction in new-born children appears to depend
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 107
chiefly on the sensations of the lips and tongue. I say chiefly,
because some predisposition thereto may be generated in utero,
or otherwise impressed, and the great aptness of new-born children
in sucking seems to favour this. However, when we consider,
that the impressions of the cold air upon the lips and mouth in its
passage to the lungs, of the nipple upon the lips, and of the milk
upon the tongue, ought to excite motions in the neighbouring
muscles of the lips, and lower jaw ; that the motions which concur
to the action of suction, are such as might be expected from
these causes ; and even that the motions of the head and neck,
by which the child indicates the want of a breast, may flow from
the great sensibility and irritability of these parts, when the
child is hungry ; a presumption arises, that the whole action of
suction, with all its circumstances, is excited by the impressions
mechanically or automatically ; and that by the running of
vibrations from the sensory nerves into the neighbouring motory
ones.
Secondly, The first rudiments of the action of mastication are
derived from that of suction, i. e. from the alternate motion of
the lower jaw necessary to squeeze out the milk. After this
action has been excited for some time by the taste of the milk, it
will return with sufficient facility from the impressions made by
solid food ; and the same impressions may excite other motions
in the muscles of the tongue and cheeks, viz. those which concur
to make the action of mastication in its imperfect and automatic
state.
Thirdly, It may appear in like manner, that the pleasurable
impressions of the milk upon the tongue, mouth, and fauces, of
new-born children, may excite those motions of the muscles of
the tongue, os hyoides, soft palate, and fauces, which make the
action of deglutition; and consequently, that this is deducible
from sensation automatically.
It confirms this position, that, according to the theory of these
papers, the soft palate ought to be drawn down by the impres
sions made on the tongue and mouth, not drawn up ; since this
last would be to suppose the sensory vibrations to pass over
muscles that are near, and run to those at a distance, which is
absurd. For Albinus has proved, both from anatomy, and the
observation of the fact, that the soft palate is drawn down in
swallowing ; not up, according to the opinion of Boerhaave.
It confirms it also, that nauseous liquids are immediately and
mechanically rejected by young children ; the impressions arising
from them producing such a contraction as shuts the passage.
It confirms it still farther, that young children do not swallow
their saliva. For this makes no impression sufficient to generate
the action of deglutition in an automatic way.
We may conjecture here, that the common vibrations, ex
cited in the membrane of the mouth and fauces, grow particularly
strong at the tip of the uvula; and that a greater power of
108 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
contraction is transmitted to the neighbouring muscles upon this
account.
Fourthly, It may be observed, that nauseous tastes distort the
mouth and face automatically, not only in young children, but
even in adults. And, for the same reason, pleasant ones ought
to have a less effect, of the same kind ; as they seem to have.
And I conjecture, that the distortions of the face, which attend
grief, also the gentle, smiling motions, which attend joy, are, in
part, deducible from this source.
I conjecture also, that the risus sardonius, and the tendency
to laughter, which some persons observe in themselves in going
to sleep, have a relation to the fore-mentioned motions of the
face. As the muscles here considered are, in great measure,
cutaneous, they will, on this account, be more subject to vibra
tions excited in the mouth, or which run up to it from the
stomach.
Fifthly, It may easily be conceived, that the' impressions, which
the aliment and faces make upon the stomach and bowels, may
excite the peristaltic motion in their muscular coats. It only
remains to shew, why this should tend downwards. Now, for
this, we may assign the following reasons. First, that the action
of swallowing determines that of the stomach to move the same
way with itself, i. e. downwards ; and that this determination
may, in common cases, carry its influence as far as the great guts.
Secondly, that the contraction of the upper orifice of the stomach
may stop the waves that sometimes come upwards in the stomach,
and return them back, so as to force open the pylorus where that
is less contracted; as on the other hand, where the pylorus is
more contracted than the upper orifice, the motion of the stomach
is inverted, and there arises a disposition to ructus or vomiting.
Thirdly, that when waves ascend in the lower bowels, a gentle
contraction in the pylorus may be sufficient to stop and return
them. Fourthly, that one principal use of the cacum, and appen-
dicula vermi/ormis, which last is an extreme and pointed part,
seems to be, to return the waves, which the constriction of the
anus may send upwards. And the effects of glysters and supposi
tories in procuring stools, i. e. in putting the whole colon into
motion, agree well with this use of the cacum, and appendicula
vermiformis. It agrees also with all the reasoning of this para
graph, that when a stoppage is made any where in the bowels by
an inflammation, spasm, strangulation from a rupture, &c. the
peristaltic motion is inverted.
I have been informed, that in a person who had some inches of
the ilium hanging out of his body, so that the peristaltic motion
might be viewed, the least touch of a foreign body would stop
this motion at once. It agrees with this, that when rabbits are
opened alive, the peristaltic motion does not take pla^e till after
some time, viz. because the handling of the bowels has checked it.
May we not hence suspect, that the fibres of the muscular coat
THE SENSE OF TASTE. 109
of the bowels are contracted by an electrical virtue, which passes
off, and disappears for a time, upon the touch of non-electrics?
Or may we suppose, that such touches stop subtle vibrations in
the small parts of the fibres ?
Sixthly, Since vomiting is excited by disagreeable and painful
impressions in the stomach, and requires the contraction of the
diaphragm, and abdominal muscles, it agrees well with the notion,
that sensory vibrations run into the neighbouring muscles for con
tracting them. I suppose also, that both orifices of the stomach
are strongly contracted, previously to vomiting; and that the
upper orifice, being most sensible, is contracted most strongly.
Hence its power of contraction may be soon exhausted, and con
sequently it may open of itself in the action of vomiting. How
ever, it may, in some cases, require to be forced open by the
superior action of the diaphragm, and abdominal muscles. Almost
all great pains and disorders in the lower belly occasion vomiting ;
which is very agreeable to the foregoing notion.
The nose itches, the mouth flows with water, the lower lip
trembles, both are pale, and the person yawns, previously to
vomiting, in many cases; all which things favour the notion of
vibrations running freely along the surfaces of membranes.
Ruchis, or the expulsion of wind from the stomach, is nearly
related to vomiting, differing rather in degree than kind. Its
suitableness therefore to the theory of these papers must be
judged of from what has been advanced concerning vomiting.
The hiccough is also related to vomiting. It is supposed to
proceed from an irritation at the upper orifice of the stomach,
causing a sudden contraction of the diaphragm, so as to pull
down the pharynx and larynx after it. May it not rather be a
sudden contraction of the inferior or small muscle of the diaphragm
only ? This is particularly near the supposed seat of irritation ;
and upon this supposition, sneezing, surprise, and all other
methods of making the whole diaphragm act together strongly,
would remove it, as is observed in fact.
Seventhly, Permanent spasms, and violent motions, in the
bowels, arise in consequence of uneasy and painful impressions
there from indigested aliment, acrid faces, irritating purges,
poisons, &c. They are generally attended with the fermentation
of the contents of the bowels, and the consequent generation of
air ; which, when confined by a spasm on each hand, distends
the intermediate part of the bowel often to an excessive degree,
causing a proportional degree of painful vibrations. If we suppose
these vibrations to check themselves all at once, by occasioning a
sudden contraction in the affected membrane, they may be pro
pagated over the whole nervous system instantaneously, and give
rise to the convulsion-fits, which happen to young children from
gripes, and distention of the stomach and bowels, and to adults,
from poisons, &c. This is upon supposition, that neither spasm
gives way : for, if either does, the pain goes off, for a time at
110 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
\
least, without farther ill symptoms. Such pains in the bowels
resemble those in the bladder, when the detrusor and sphincter
are both contracted violently at the same time, by the irritation
of a stone. The stomach, the gall-bladder, and rectum, all seem
capable of like contractions in muscular fibres, that have opposite
actions. The causes of all these spasms and motions are evidently
the impressions in the neighbourhood, and their circumstances
are, at first sight, agreeable to the theory of these papers.
Eighthly, The glands belonging to the mouth, and alimentary
duct, appear to me to be emptied, not only by the compression,
which the neighbouring muscles and muscular fibres make upon
them, but also by the sensory vibrations which run up their
excretory ducts, into the folliculi, and receptacles where there
are such, and even into the secretory ducts ; by which the peri
staltic motion of all these is increased, so as both to receive more
freely from the blood during their state of relaxation, and to
squeeze more strongly through the excretory ducts during their
state of contraction. Thus tobacco, pyrethrum, and other acrids,
solicit a profuse discharge from the salival glands, by being barely
kept in the mouth, i. e. though the neighbouring muscles do not
squeeze the glands by the action of mastication. Thus likewise
vomits and purges increase both the secretions of all the glands
of the intestines, and those of the liver and pancreas. It may
be also, that the vibrations which run up the gall-duct are some
times so strong as to occasion a spasm there; in which case, if
the patient vomit at the same time, a symptomatic and temporary
jaundice may follow.
Ninthly, The expulsion of the faces in new-born children is
perfectly automatic, and seems to follow even from very gentle
compressions of the abdominal muscles, when the rectum is full,
inasmuch as the sphincter ani has in them scarce any force. The
same may be said of the expulsion of the urine, the sphincter
vesica being also very weak in new-born children. To which we
may add, that the least irritation from fulness or acrimony in the
rectum or bladder throws the abdominal muscles into contraction
in young children, both on account of the extreme sensibility
and irritability of their whole nervous systems, and because they
have, as yet, no associated influences over the muscles of the
abdomen, whereby to restrain their contractions.
As the sphincters of the rectum and bladder gain strength,
more force is required to expel the faces and urine. However,
it appears,] that these muscles usually exhaust themselves, pre
viously to the instant of expulsion, thus giving free scope to their
antagonists. For, according to theory, they ought to be con
tracted sooner and stronger than their antagonists, as being nearer
to the seat of irritation.
The actions of vomiting, and expulsion of the faces, are very
nearly related to one another in their automatic state. However,
it seems to me, that an irritation in the stomach produces only a
THE SENSE OF TASTE. Ill
/
gentle contraction in the sphincter ani, viz. such a one as does
not exhaust its power, and which therefore tends to confine the
fceces. In like manner, an irritation in the rectum may gently
contract the upper orifice of the stomach. It deserves notice
here, that the sphincter ani lies out of the peritonaum ; and con
sequently, that vibrations cannot run from it to the orifice of the
stomach along the peritonaum, nor vice versd. The same obser
vation holds in respect of the sphincter of the bladder.
The circumstances attending the exclusion of the foetus, which
continues automatic perfectly or nearly, may be much illustrated
by what is here delivered concerning the expulsion of the fceces.
Prop. XLVII.—To explain the Manner and Degree in which
the automatic Actions, mentioned under the last Proposition,
are influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary Powers.
When young children continue to suck, or masticate a taste
less body put between their lips, or into their mouths, we may
conceive, that the actions of suction and mastication begin to
pass from their automatic towards their voluntary state. Drink
ing out of a vessel, so as to draw up the liquid, is learnt, in part,
from sucking the breast, in most cases ; but it may be learnt
without, as is evident in those children that are dry-nursed.
Mastication, when it approaches to a perfect state in children, is
chiefly voluntary, the first rudiments receiving perpetual changes,
so as to fall in more and more with pleasure and convenience.
See Prop. XXII. Cor. I. In adults, both suction and mastica
tion follow the command of the will with entire readiness and
facility. The manner in which this is effected has been already
explained in treating of the voluntary power of grasping.
Deglutition of insipid liquors becomes voluntary early. But
it is difficult even for some adults, to swallow pills and boluses,
though tasteless; and very nauseous liquids are sometimes
rejected by them automatically, as well as by young children.
The action of deglutition affords manifest evidences of the
gradual transition of automatic motions into voluntary ones, as
well as of voluntary ones into such as are secondarily automatic.
For, in common cases, we swallow without the least express
intention.
When the face of a child or adult is distorted upon the sight
of a nauseous medicine, which has before produced distortions
automatically, i. e. from the impressions made on the mouth and
fauces, we see an evident instance of the power of associated
circumstances; and may have the conception of voluntary
powers, derived from a succession of such associations, made easy
to the imagination.
The peristaltic motion of the stomach and bowels remains
automatic to the last, depending partly on the vibrations descend
ing from the brain, partly on the impressions made on the
112 THE SENSE OF TASTE.
villous coat. It cannot depend on associated circumstances in its
common state, because, being perpetual, it is equally associated
with every thing, i. e. particularly so with nothing. However,
as grateful aliments increase it, the sight of them may do the
same by association. Could we see our stomachs and bowels, it
is probable, that we should get some degree of voluntary power
over them.
Vomiting is sometimes, and a nausea often, excited by asso
ciated circumstances ; and there have been instances of persons
who could vomit at pleasure by first introducing some of these.
But, I suppose, this action never follows the mere command of
the will, without the intervention of some strong associated
circumstance. We have, in like manner, a semi-voluntary power
of restraining vomiting, for a time at least, by means of ideas of
decency, shame, fear, &c.
Some persons have a power of expelling flatulencies from the
stomach in a manner which is almost voluntary; and many
imitate an automatic hiccough very exactly. It 'facilitates these
powers, that both the motions here considered are very frequent
especially during childhood. Those who can hiccough volun
tarily, attain to it by repeated trials, as in other cases of voluntary
actions.
The spasms, and violent motions of the bowels, cannot be
expected to become voluntary. They do, however, seem to
return in many cases, from less and less bodily causes per
petually, on account of associated circumstances, as has been
already remarked.
In like manner, the vibrations which run up the excretory
ducts of the glands, must be supposed to remain totally under
the influence of their original causes ; unless we except the
contraction of the gall-duct, which happens sometimes in violent
fits of anger. This may perhaps arise from vibrations excited
by associated circumstances.
Both the power of expelling the faces and urine, and that of
checking this expulsion, are under the influence of many asso
ciated circumstances, and voluntary to a considerable degree.
And it will easily appear, from the principles of this theory, that
they ought to be so. The filling the chest with air by the
contraction of the muscles of inspiration, is a circumstance which
never attends these actions in their purely automatic state.
Young children learn it by the same steps as they do other
methods of exerting the greatest force, and to the greatest
advantage. See Prop. XXII. Cor. I.
It deserves notice here, that the action of the muscular coat of
the stomach and intestines is far less subject to the power of the
will, than that of the great fleshy muscles of the trunk and
limbs. The efficient cause of this is the great and immediate
dependence which the action of the muscular coat has upon the
sensations of the villous, on account of the exquisiteness of these
THE SENSE OF SMELL. 113
sensations, their constant recurrency, and the contiguity of the
coats. And there is a perfect agreement of the final cause
with the efficient here, as in other cases. For any great degree
of voluntary power over the muscular coat of the bowels
would much disturb the digestion of the aliment, as those
nervous persons experience, who are so unhappy as to be excep
tions to the general rule, through the influence of associated
circumstances.
SECT. III.
THE SENSE OF SMELL.
Prop. XLVIII.—To assign the Extent of the Organ of Smell,
and to explain in general the different Powers of which it is
possessed.
Smell may be distinguished into two sorts: first, that exqui
site sensation, which odoriferous bodies impress upon the nose by
means of alternate inspiration. This is smell, in the peculiar and
most proper sense of the word ; and it resides chiefly, or perhaps
entirely, in that part of the pituitary membrane, which invests
the cells of the ossa spongiosa. Secondly, that sensation or
flavour, which most kinds of aliment and medicines impress upon
the whole pituitary membrane during mastication, and just after
deglutition. And this last makes a principal part of the pleasures
and pains which are usually referred to the taste. For when a
person has a cold, i. e. when the pituitary membrane is obstructed
and loaded with mucus, meats lose their agreeable flavours ; and
the same thing happens in a polypus narium.
Besides this, it is to be observed, that the pituitary membrane
has an exquisite sensibility, which may be referred to the head of
feeling. For active powders, i. e. sternutatories, seem to irritate
the membrane of the nose in the same way, as they do a part of
the skin deprived of the cuticle, only in a greater degree, and
more immediately. And thus smells themselves may be referred
to the head of feeling ; since strong smells are often observed to
occasion sneezing.
It may also be remarked, that as the organ of feeling passes
insensibly into that of taste, so the organ of taste does into that
of smell. And these three senses have a much greater resem
blance to one another, than any of them has to the sight, or to
the hearing; or than the sight and hearing have to each other.
However, the organ of feeling is distinguished from that of taste
by its being covered with the hard cuticle, and the organ of taste
i
114 THE SENSE OF SMELL.
from that of smell by the last's being extended upon bones ; so
as to be much more sensible and irritable upon that account.
To which we may add, that as a watery fluid is the proper men
struum for the dissolution of sapid particles, and conveyance of
their tastes, so smells seem to make their impressions by means
of air-particles.
Prop. XLIX.—To examine how far the general Phenomena of
Smell are agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Here we may observe, first, that since the smells of bodies
diffuse themselves in general to great distances, and in some
cases to immense ones, the odoriferous particles must repel each
other; and consequently be easily susceptible ofvibratory motions,
for the same reasons as the particles of common air, or those of
the aether. We may even suppose, that odoriferous particles are
thrown off" by vibratory motions in the body that emits them.
May not, however, the odoriferous particles be attracted by
the body which emits them, after they have receded from it to a
certain distance, and so follow it, in some measure, like an
atmosphere ? It is hard to account for the small or no diminu
tion of weight in odoriferous bodies, after they have continued
to emit smells for a long time, but upon some such supposition.
Secondly, Heat, friction, and effervescence, are all very apt to
excite and increase smells ; and have all a connexion with
vibratory motions in the judgment of most philosophers.
Thirdly, Since heat and friction excite and increase smells,
these may have some connexion with electricity ; which is sup
posed by many philosophers to depend upon vibratory motions.
And as air-particles are electrics per se, they may have, on this
account, a peculiar fitness for conveying and impressing smells.
May not air-particles, and odoriferous ones, repel each other?
Fourthly, It is usual, when we desire to receive a smell in full
strength and perfection, to make quick, short, alternate inspira
tions and expirations. This corresponds to the rubbing the
ends of the fingers upon the body to be examined by feeling,
and the tongue against the palate in tasting. And all these
three actions appear to be some presumption in favour of the
doctrine of vibrations.
Fifthly, The greatness and quickness of the effect of odours
upon the whole nervous system seem very suitable to the
doctrine of vibrations. For this must be owing to the mere
impression of some motion, there not being time for the absorp
tion of particles sufficient for the effect produced. When sweet
smells cause a sudden faintness, and deliquium animi, they may
perhaps agitate the whole system of small medullary particles so
much, as to make them attract each other with sufficient force to
stop all vibratory motions ; just as has been observed of the
particles of muscular and membranous fibres. And the smells
THE SENSE OF SMELL. 115
to which a person has an antipathy, may have been originally
sweet, or lie so near the confines of pleasure, as to propagate
their vibrations much farther than original foetids can. For
these seem to revive from fainting by making a vigorous impres
sion on the nose, which yet is not propagated freely over the
whole system ; or, if it be, will occasion immediate sickness and
fainting. Foetids in this resemble other pains, which, if mode
rate, excite ; if very violent, overpower.
If it be objected to this, that such fragrant smells as a person
has an antipathy to, are disagreeable to him in the highest
degree, and that upon the first perception ; also that the smell
of those foetids which revive, as of asafcetida, spirit of hartshorn,
&c. is agreeable to many; I answer, that these two opposite
changes seem to arise merely from association. The faintness
and revival, attending these smells respectively, must, by associa
tion, transfer the vestiges and miniatures of themselves upon the
first perception of the smells, whose associates they are.
Sixthly, It is agreeable to the notion of vibrations, that
spirituous liquors and opium should produce their appropriated
effects by smell, as well as by being taken into the stomach, as
they are found to do in fact. For, if these effects arise from
specific vibrations, the mere impression of small active particles
may be sufficient for the purpose of producing them. We must,
however, suppose that the exhalations of odoriferous bodies are
imbibed in some small degree by the absorbing vessels of the
membrana schneideriana. We might shew by parity of reason,
that the great subtlety of odoriferous effluvia favours the doctrine
of vibrations.
Though odoriferous particles are more subtle than the sapid
ones, yet they are perhaps grosser than the rays of light. For
the smoke of a tallow candle ceases to smell, when it begins to
shine, i. e. when it is more attenuated by heat. Since therefore
the vibrations from heat are probably smaller than those from
light, we may range the vibrations of the medullary substance in
the following order, in respect of subtlety; heat, light, smell,
tastes, tangible impressions, and the vibrations of the air, from
which sound arises. But it is to be observed, that these last
may excite much more frequent vibrations in the auditory nerve,
than those of the sounding body, to which they correspond ; just
as the vibrations from friction are much more numerous than the
strokes of friction ; and the tremors of the particles of an anvil
much more numerous than the strokes of the hammer.
Prop. L.—To examine howfar the specific Differences of Odours
are agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
This proposition is analogous to the thirty-eighth, in which the
agreement of the specific differences of tastes with the doctrine
of vibrations is considered ; and may be illustrated by it. One
i 2
116 THE SENSE OF SMELL.
may say indeed, that taste and smell are so nearly allied to each
other, that, if one be performed by vibrations, the other must
also. I will repeat two principal observations.
First, If the varieties of kind in vibrations be combined with
those of degree, we shall have a large fund for explaining the
various fragrant and foetid smells, notwithstanding that the first
always agree in falling short of the solution of continuity, the
last in going beyond it.
Secondly, the differences of kind in smells are not so many as
may appear at first sight, a difference in degree often putting on
the appearance of one in kind. Thus an onion cut fresh, and
held close to the nose, smells very like asafcetida; and asa-
fcetida, in an evanescent degree, like onion or garlick. Thus a
dunghill at a distance has smelt like musk, and a dead dog like
elder-flowers. And fcetids are said to enhance the flavour of
fragrants. The three last instances shew, that pleasure and
pain are very nearly allied to one another in this sense also.
Prop. LI.—To explain in what Manner, and to what Degree,
pleasant and unpleasant Odours contribute, in the way of
Association, to form our intellectual Pleasures and Pains.
It will be evident, upon a moderate attention, thaj the grate
ful smells, with which natural productions abound, have a
great share in enlivening many of our ideas, and in the genera
tion of our intellectual pleasures; which holds particularly in
respect of those that arise from the view of rural objects and
scenes, and from the representations of them by poetry and
painting. This source of these pleasures may not indeed be easy
to be traced up in all the particular cases; but that it is a source,
follows necessarily from the power of association.
In like manner, the mental uneasiness, which attends shame,
ideas of indecency, &c. arises, in a considerable degree, from the
offensive smells of the excrementitious discharges of animal
bodies. And it is remarkable in this view, that the pudenda are
situated near the passages of the urine and fceces, the two most
offensive of our excrements.
We may suppose the intellectual pleasures and pains, which
are deducible from the flavours, grateful and ungrateful, that
ascend behind the uvula into the nose during mastication, and
just after deglutition, to have been considered in the last section
under the head of taste, since these flavours are always esteemed
a part of the tastes of aliments and medicines. And indeed the
olfactory nerves seem to have as great a share in conveying to us
both the original and derivative pleasures, which are referred to
the taste, as the nerves of the tongue ; which may help us to
account for the largeness of those nerves in men, to whom smell,
properly so called, is of far less consequence than any other of
THE SENSE OF SMELL. 117
the senses, and taste of the greatest, while yet the nerves of
taste are comparatively small.
We may add here, that the smell is a guide and guard placed
before the taste, as that is before the stomach, in a great degree
in men, but much more so in brutes, who have scarce any other
means, than that of smell, whereby to distinguish what foods are
proper for them. It is likewise probable, that the smell is a
guard to the lungs ; and that the grateful odours of flowers,
fruits, and vegetable productions, in general, are an indication of
the wholesomeness of country air ; as the offensiveness of putre
faction, sulphureous fumes, &c. warn us beforehand of their
mischievous effects upon the lungs. However, the rule is not
universal in either case.
Prop. LII.—To give an Account of the Ideas generated by the
several Odours.
What has been delivered concerning the ideas of feeling and
taste, may be applied to the smell. We cannot, by the power of
our will or fancy, raise up any miniatures or ideas of particular
smells, so as to perceive them evidently. However, the asso
ciated circumstances seem to have some power of affecting the
organ of smell, and the corresponding part of the brain, in a
particular manner ; whence we are prepared to receive and dis
tinguish the several smells more readily, and more accurately, on
account of the previous influence of these associated circum- 7
stances. And, conversely, the actual smells of natural bodies
enable us to determine them, though we do not see them, always
negatively, and often positively, i.e. by suggesting their names,
and visible appearances. And, when we are at a loss in the last
respect, the name or visible appearance of the body will imme
diately revive the connexion.
Prop. LIII. — To explain the automatic Motions, which arise
from the Impressions made on the Organ of Smell.
These automatic motions are of three kinds ; viz. the inspira
tion, by which young brute animals, especially quadrupeds,
impress and increase the odours of their respective foods; the
contraction of the fauces, and upper part of the gullet, which
arises from those agreeable flavours, which ascend behind the
uvula into the nose ; and the action of sneezing.
As to the first ; it is peculiar to brutes, children not using any
methods of improving odours, till they are arrived at two or three
years of age. The reasons of this difference may be, that the
smell in many brutes is the leading sense ; that their noses are
long and large, and the ossa spongiosa hollowed by innumerable
cells ; whereas in young children the nose is depressed ; the
pituitary membrane loaded with mucus; and, when they grow
118 THE SENSE OF SMELL.
up, the acuteness of their smell is far inferior to that of qua
drupeds.
If it be said, that this action is not automatic in brutes, but an
instinct, which they bring into the world with them ; I answer,
that the nearness of the muscles affected, viz. those which dilate
the nose, larynx, and lungs, to the seat of the impression, makes
it probable, that the motion depends upon the sensation, as in
other instances mentioned in these papers, some of which are
allowed by all.
It may be, that something of the same kind takes place in
young children, as soon as their smell begins to be sufficiently
acute. But it is so mixed with, and modelled by, voluntary
motions, as to be separately indiscernible.
The second motion, or the contraction of the fauces, and
upper part of the oesophagus, from the grateful flavours which
ascend up into the nostrils behind the uvula, is part of the
action of deglutition ; but it could not properly be mentioned
in the last Section, because it arises from a sensation referred to
this.
Ungrateful flavours have often a contrary effect, and extend
their influence so far as to preclude the passage through the
gullet, and even throw back the ungrateful liquid or morsel with
violence. And we may observe, that in many other cases alscs
when the pleasure passes into pain, the automatic motion thereon
depending passes into one of an opposite nature; just as in
algebra, when an affirmative quantity in the data is changed into
a negative one, a like change is to be made sometimes, and yet
not always, in the conclusion.
It deserves notice here, that pinching the nose prevents the
perception of these flavours, as it seems, by checking the vibra
tions, which would run along the pituitary membrane. When
the flavours are very pungent, they fix in the tip of the nose ; or,
if this be hindered by pinching the nose, they fly to the uvula,
which is the nearest extreme part to this.
In like manner, pinching the nose, or pressing the lachrymal
bag, whose membrane is continuous to the pituitary one, checks
the sensation that gives rise to sneezing. And when looking at
a strong light excites this action, or acrid vapours make the
eyes water, we may conjecture, that vibrations pass through the
lachrymal duct from the eye to the nose in the first case, and
from the nose to the eye in the last. The watering of the eyes
from drinking hastily, especially pungent liquors, from plucking
a hair out of the nostrils, and from sternutatories, admit of a like
explication.
And these instances may help to explain the sensations in the
fauces, uvula, and tip of the nose, also the flowing of tears from
the eyes, which attend grief. I conjecture that the stomach is
particularly affected in grief; and that it sends up vibrations
along the common membrane, to the fauces, uvula, tip of the
THE SENSE OF SMELL. 119
nose, and eyes. However, the disorder of the medullary sub
stance is great and general in great mental uneasinesses.
As to sneezing; no one can doubt its being automatic. And
it is reasonable to expect, that the muscles actually concerned in
it, viz. those of inspiration, and the erectors of the head and
neck, should be affected by vivid sensations in the pituitary
membrane. It seems also to me, that the muscles which stop
the passage through the nose, ought to be contracted first, i. e.
duriDg the inspiration, as being nearer to the seat of irritation ;
and afterwards relaxed during expiration, partly by their having
exhausted their own power, partly by the contraction of their
antagonists, which are irritated also. The contrary happens, but
for the same general reasons, in the action of deglutition, as has
been already observed. And there is a remarkable coincidence
of the efficient and final causes in both these instances.
In speaking of the sources of motory vibrations above, Prop.
XVIII. I supposed, that just before the motory vibrations
excited by the irritation of membranes took place, the sen
sory ones in [them were checked by the general contraction of
their fibres, in all their directions. And I mentioned sneezing,
as affording an instance of this. For the sensation, which
causes it, disappears the instant before the inspiration ; and if
this be not strong enough, i. e. if the muscles do not receive the
vibrations from the pituitary membrane with sufficient freedom,
it returns again and again, being increased by this reciprocation,
till at last it causes sneezing. It seems agreeable to this
account, that the passage of air, cold absolutely or relatively,
through the nose, will often occasion sneezing ; and through the
mouth, yawning. For cold air must contract the membranes
along whose surfaces it passes.
When sneezing rouses from a stupor, it may be supposed to
excite the usual degree and kind of vibrations in the medullary
substance of the brain, by such a moderate concussion of it, as
lies within the limits of nature and health.
Prop. LIV.—To explain the Manner and Degree, in which the
automatic Actions, mentioned in the last Proposition, are in
fluenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary Powers.
The short, quick, alternate inspirations and expirations, by
which we distinguish smells in perfection, are in men, totally or
nearly, a voluntary action, derived partly from common respira
tion, partly from sneezing, the prospect of pleasure and conve
nience concurring to it, and modelling it, as in other cases. It
seems also, that in brutes this action must pass from its pure
automatic state to some degree of a voluntary one.
In what manner and degree deglutition is voluntary, has been
considered already.
Sneezing is checked for a time by attention, surprise, and all
120 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
strong mental emotions. It may also be performed voluntarily ;
but then the force is much inferior to that of automatic sneezing.
The same may be observed of hiccough, coughing, yawning,
stretching, &c. and is very agreeable to the derivative nature of
these motions, when voluntary, i. e. when performed by motory
vibratiuncles. The action of sneezing is differently modelled
by voluntary and semi-voluntary powers in different persons.
SECT. IV.
THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
Prop. LV.—To determine the immediate Organ of Sight, and
explain its Powers in general.
Since the retina is an expansion of the optic nerve, we may
conclude, from the analogy of the other senses, that it is the im
mediate organ of sight. Nor is the want of sensibility in the
button of the optic nerve a sufficient objection to this ; as the
minute structure and disposition of the parts of this button are
not known.
We may also reason thus to the same purpose. It may be
expected, that the immediate organ of sight should be either
black or white, that so it may bear a relation of indifference to
all the colours. But if we admit the doctrine of vibrations, black,
by absorbing all kinds of rays, would make a confusion of vibra
tions, whereas white, by reflecting all, might retain the impressed
vibrations distinctly. The retina is therefore peculiarly fitted
for the immediate organ of sight, and the choroides the contrary.
We may add farther, that the retina, by reflecting rays copiously,
prevents their arrival at the choroides..
For the accurate distinction of the several visible points of
objects, it is necessary that these be placed within the limits of
distinct vision ; and also, that the coats and humours of the eye
be so circumstanced, as to bring the several pencils of rays, which
proceed from each visible point accurately or nearly, to a corre
sponding point upon the retina. This is distinct vision. But
colours alone may be distinguished from each other without any
exact conformation of the eye. Thus vision may be reckoned of
two kinds, as feeling, taste, and smell, have been.
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 121
Prop. LVI.— To examine how far the Phcenomena of Colours
are agreeable to the Doctrine of Vibrations.
Here I will make two suppositions.
First, That the extreme red rayss at F M, Optics, book I.
part 2. fig. 4. excite vibrations in the retina, which are to those
excited by the extreme violet rays at A G, as 1 to 2, in respect
of frequency.
Secondly, That in going from the extreme red to the extreme
violet, the excess of vibrations excited by each colour, above
those of the extreme red, will be proportional to its distance from
the extreme red.
If we admit these two suppositions, then the vibrations excited
by the extreme red, by the limit of red and orange, of orange
and yellow, yellow and green, green and blue, blue and indigo,
indigo and violet, and by the extreme violet, as these colours are
fixed by Sir Isaac Newton, will be to one another in frequency,
respectively as the 8 numbers 100, 112i, 120, 133j., 150, 166*,
177J, and 200; the distances of these several limits, and of the
extreme violet, from the extreme red, being to one another
respectively, as the 7 numbers 12J, 20, 33|, 50, 66|, 77£,
and 100.
Now the first suppositions may be rendered probable thus.
The intervals of the fits of easy reflection and transmission of the
red and violet in the same medium, and same angle of refraction,
are nearly as 5 to 3. See Optics, book II. Obs. 13, 14, and
Prop. XVI. But the red is less refracted by the coats and
humours of the eye than the violet, and consequently will not
have its intervals so much diminished in proportion ; whence
they may be to those of the violet as 6 to 3, or 2 to 1, at their
arrival on the retina. But it is probable, that the vibrations of
the rays themselves, and consequently those which they excite
in the retina, are reciprocally as the intervals of their fits. The
frequency therefore of the vibrations excited by the extreme red
may be to that of the vibrations excited by the extreme violet as
1 to 2, according to the first supposition.
The second supposition is an easy step after the first.
For it is natural to suppose, that in passing from F to A, in
the figure above referred to, equal distances should produce an
equal increase of vibrations, which is the second supposition.
Upon this foundation we may now reason in the following
manner.
First, The seven primary colours, estimated both from their
limits, and their middle points, excite vibrations, which are to
each other in the simplest ratios that are consistent with each
other, and all comprehended within the first and most simple of
all ratios, viz. that expressed by the two first numbers 1 and 2.
Secondly, The same ratios are also those of the five tones, and
two semi-tones, comprehended within the octave ; as might well
122 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
be expected. For music must take those which are most simple,
, and most consistent with each other.
Thirdly, Since the greens are respectively to the yellows, on
one hand, as 9 to 8, and to the blues on the other, as 9-to 10,
*. e. in the proportion of a tone ; also to the reds, on one hand,
as 4 to 3, and to the violets, on the other, as 3 to 4, i. e. in the
proportion of a 4th ; since farther, the yellows are as 6 to 5, i. e.
thirds minor, to the reds, as 4 to 5, i. e. thirds major, to the
blues, and as 2 to 3, i. e. fifths, to the violets ; the blues as 5 to
6, i. e. thirds minor, to the violets, and as 3 to 2, i. e. fifths, to
the reds; and the reds as 9 to 16, i. e. flat sevenths, to the
violets ; the difference of vibrations here exhibited may make the
five foregoing colours appear distinct from each other to the
mind, for the same reasons, whatever they be, as take place in
sounds. For natural bodies reflect all these colours in great
abundance, and in sufficient purity for this purpose. We may
begin from green, as the most common of all. When this, as
reflected by grass, suppose, has been sufficiently familiarized to
the eye of a child, it is reasonable to think, that it may be dis
tinguished from yellow and blue, and much more from red and
violet, as reflected by flowers; also that these may be distin
guished from each other. And it seems to me, that our fixed
point ought to be placed in green, from the commonness and
purity of the green of the third order, i. e. of grass and vegetables
in general. For the same reasons one may expect, that the
several shades of red, orange, green, blue, and violet, should be
considered as several degrees of the same colour, viz. on account
of the small difference of vibrations. At least this corresponds to
the usual method of proceeding in other things. We distinguish
great differences in our sensations by new names ; but refer all
such as are nearly related to the same. And thus the two fore
going suppositions furnish us with a natural reason for distin
guishing the primary colours into five, viz. red, yellow, green,
blue, and violet; which, agreeably to this, were all that Sir Isaac
Newton himself distinguished the oblong solar image into for
some time, as may appear by his optical lectures.
Fourthly, Since, if we proceed from the green to the yellow
and red, on one hand, and to the blue and violet on the other,
the ratios are the same, only inverted ; and since there is a larger
interval or ratio between the yellow and red, also between the
blue and violet, than between the green and yellow, or green and
blue ; we may expect to have two more distinct primary colours
corresponding to each other, and to the two semi-tones in an
octave. And thus it is. Orange, and indigo, are sufficiently
distinct from their contiguous ones, viz. orange from red and
yellow, and indigo from blue and violet ; and yet approach to
them. And these seven colours, thus fixed, seem to be all that
we can well call distinct colours amongst the primary ones, the
intermediate degrees being referred to some of these seven, and
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. V2S
called shades. Of compound colours, distinct from all the
primary ones, I shall speak below.
Fifthly, It is remarkable here, that the order of the five tones
and two semi-tones of an octave, which corresponds to the order
of the seven primary colours, is the second in absolute perfection
(which I have from a MS. paper of Sir Isaac Newton's on music,
not yet published), and the first in relative, i. e. of those, in
which the semi-tones are at equal distances from the middle or
extremes ; which circumstance is evidently necessary in the order
of the colours. For if distinct colours arise from ratios, and a
half-note colour arise next after the red, if you begin at one end,
a corresponding one ought to appear next after the violet, if you
begin at the other. The sameness of the ratios that must arise,
makes this necessary, on supposition, that the distinction of
colours is founded on ratios.
Sixthly, If the distinction of colours arise from the ratios of
vibrations, the colours may be expected to be broader where the
vibrations are more numerous, because a greater addition must
be made to a greater number, in order to make an equal ratio.
And there is a certain breadth for each of the colours respec
tively, which suits each set of ratios of vibrations that they can
be supposed to bear to one another, according to any supposed
law of increase of the vibrations in passing from one end of the
solar image to the other. Since therefore the breadth of the
seven primary colours, as determined by Sir Isaac Newton, suits
the simplest ratios possible, according to the simplest law of in
crease possible, as has been explained above, we seem to have
from thence an argument both for the doctrine of vibrations in
general, and for the particular ratios of vibrations here alleged.
And there are two things in this matter which deserve particular
notice. First, that Sir Isaac Newton's Spectrum was about ten
inches long ; and consequently, the breadths of the seven primary
colours, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet, in inches,
1.25; 0.75; 1.33; 1.66; 1.66; 1.11; 2.22; which magnitudes
are so considerable, that a small error in fixing the limit of
a colour does not much affect their mutual ratios. Secondly,
that the limits of the colours were determined in a way, that had
no dependence on any hypothesis, and the operation repeated
several times. However, it may perhaps be worth the time and
pains of some curious experimenter, to examine the breadths of
the seven primary colours afresh, and compare them with the
hypothesis here proposed.
Seventhly, When all the rays reflected from any natural body
are near to each other, as in the yellows of the second order, and
in the blues and greens of the third, we may suppose, that the
slower vibrations are accelerated by the quicker, and the quicker
retarded by the slower, so as to compose an intermediate colour,
scarce differing from homogeneal light in appearance of purity;
just as in a bell, the slower vibrations of the wider part, and the
THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
quicker of the narrower, overrule each other mutually, so as to
compose one tone. But when the vibrations of the extreme rays
are greatly different from each other, it seems that each ought to
keep the power of exciting its proper vibrations, so as to make
the colour of the middle rays ; which may be considered as a
kind of centre of gravity, a dilute one, verging to white. And
white itself, when in perfection, arises from a due proportion of
all the sorts of rays, each primary colour, perhaps, keeping its
own peculiar vibrations, and the several shades of each primary
colour vibrating in the same time as the middle point. When
two colours considerably different, as red and blue, yellow and
violet, red and violet, are compounded, they neither resemble the
intermediate homogeneal one, nor make a white. Not the first,
because they are at so great a distance, that each can keep its
own vibrations, contrary to what happens in colours resembling
homogeneal ones ; not a white, because there is not a sufficient
number of differing vibrations. By such compositions it is, that
purples, and other colours, different from all the homogeneal
ones, are formed ; and whoever considers the several shades of
each colour, with the mutual proportions which may be combined
in any compound, may easily conceive how all the colours of
natural bodies should arise from mere combinations of the
primary colours, agreeably to the sixth and seventh propositions,
of the second part of the first book of Sir Isaac Newton's Optics.
What is here delivered may serve to suit the doctrine of vibra
tions to those propositions, and, perhaps, assist the reader to see
the reasons of the sixth.
Cor. If the differences of the primary colours arise from the
specific differences of vibrations, it is easy to see, that the differ
ences of tastes and smells may have a like origin ; and vice versa.
Prop. LVII.—To examine how far luminous Appearances, not
occasioned by the Impression of the Rays of Light, with some
other Phcenomena of a related Kind, are agreeable to the Doc
trine of Vibrations.
Flashes of light, and other luminous appearances, are occa
sioned by strokes upon the eye, rubbing it, faintings, &c. Now
it is very easy to conceive, that violent agitations in the small
particles of the optic nerve should arise from these causes ; and
consequently that such deceptions of the sight, as one may call
them, should be produced, if we admit the doctrine of vibrations.
And I do not see how they follow from the common hypothesis
concerning the manner of sensation.
The most remarkable of these luminous appearances is that
which resembles the eye of a peacock's feather, and which offers
itself upon shutting and rubbing the eye in a morning. There is
a distinction in it between the central parts and the edges. The
first seems to answer to that part of the retina, which is opposite
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 125
to the pupil, and of about the same size with it, in its ordinary
dimensions. The last, or the edges, may answer to those parts
of the retina, which are only sometimes exposed to the action of
light, viz. in dilatations of the pupil. It is observable, that the
central parts are often dark, while the edges are luminous; and
vice versd. It happens also frequently, that in the whole appear
ance a blue, a dilute yellow, and a red, succeed each other in the
order of the colours. Perhaps, by farther observations, a person
might be able, in some measure, to predict the variations of this
phaenomenon. It generally moves, which may be perhaps from
the motion of the peculiar vibrations along the surface of the
retina.
Upon shutting one's eyes after they have been fixed upon a
luminous object, as a candle, a fire, a window, it is common to
have a faint image of the object remain in the eye for a few
moments. This follows from the gradual declension of the vibra
tions excited.
Sometimes, instead of a luminous image, a dark one, corre
sponding in shape and size to the luminous object, presents
itself. In this case we must suppose, that the vivid vibrations
excited by the luminous object pass immediately into very feeble
ones, absolutely or relatively, upon the cessation of the impression.
Boerhaave says, that he had a luminous circle in his eye for a
long time after having viewed too intensely the moon's light
collected to a focus. And looking at the sun makes other objects
appear red and luminous. It does also occasion dark spots to
appear upon common objects afterwards. This last effect may
perhaps succeed the first. While extraordinary vibrations, or a
disposition to them, continue in the retina, and optic nerve
(which may be for a longer time, if a slight inflammation, with
the consequent irritability, be produced in the small vessels of
the nervous capillaments), the common objects may appear lumi
nous. When these go off, a contrary state may take place, and
cause the dark spots to appear. Dark spots of continuance argue,
that an injury is done to the retina, and optic nerve. The per
manent dark spots, which are sometimes previous to a gutta
serena, seem to be of this kind.
It is agreeable to some of the foregoing instances, that being
kept much in the dark should enable the persons to see with a
very obscure light. In some other cases of a nyctalopia there
may perhaps be the first and lowest degree of inflammation in the
infinitesimal vessels of the retina, so as to increase the sensibility
of the organ without making the exercise of its functions painful.
Giddiness, or an apparent irregular motion in the objects of
sight, almost always goes before any general confusion and priva
tion of sense and motion; which is very agreeable to the doctrine
of vibrations. For the general disorder in the vibrations in the
medullary substance may be expected to be perceived in the optic
nerve, and corresponding part of the brain, first and chiefly, on
126 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
account of the acuteness and precision of the sense of sight.
Upon the same principles it is easy to see, how great and unusual
agitations of the body, impressions on the stomach, on the olfac
tory nerves, on the eye, by the quick transition of objects, on the
eye and fancy together, by looking down a precipice, &c. should
occasion a temporary giddiness.
Prop. LVIII.—To examine how far the Judgments which we
make by Sight concerning Magnitude, Distance, Motion, Figure,
and Position, are agreeable to the Doctrine of Association.
I have already observed, Prop. XXX. that these judgments
are to be esteemed true or false, according as they agree or dis
agree with those made by the touch.
Now the associates of greater tangible magnitude are a larger
picture on the retina, the distance being the same ; and a larger
distance, the picture being the same. The associates of a less
tangible magnitude are the opposites to these. And the associates
of the sameness of tangible magnitude are the increase or diminu
tion of the picture on the retina, while the distance is diminished
or increased suitably thereto. All this appears from optical con
siderations. Hence it follows, that where the picture on the
retina is of a just size, and also the previous judgment concern
ing the distance just, our estimate of tangible magnitude by
sight will be just likewise. But if the picture on the retina be
magnified or diminished by glasses, or our previous judgment
concerning the distance be erroneous, our estimate of tangible
magnitude will be erroneous in like manner. And whether it
be just or erroneous, it is entirely founded on association.
The following instances, among many others, confirm these
positions. Young children judge rightly of magnitude only in
familiar places, or at small distances. At great distances they
always judge the objects to be less than the truth, not having
learnt to judge rightly of these distances, and make allowance for
them. The generality of adults judge far better of magnitude at
great distances on level ground, than from above, or from below,
on account of their greater experience in the former case. The
horizontal moon appears larger than the meridional, because the
picture on the retina is of nearly the same size, and the distance
esteemed to be greater. And yet the horizontal moon appears
far less than the truth, because we can form no conception of its
vast distance. A tree referred to the horizon in the dusk of the
evening, or a fly to the ground at a distance, through the in
distinctness of vision, appears much bigger than the truth. In
looking through glasses, which magnify or diminish the picture
on the retina, the objects themselves seem to be magnified or
diminished, because our judgment concerning the distance is not
altered proportionally, &c. &c.
There are, besides these, some other associated circumstances,
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 127
which occasionally impose upon us in estimating magnitudes.
Thus a person of an ordinary height standing very near a very
tall one, or coming in at a very high door, appears shorter than
the truth ; lean persons seem tall, fat persons short, &c.
The principal criterion of distance is the magnitude of the
picture, which some known object makes on the retina. But
the five following associated circumstances seem to have also
some influence on our judgments concerning distance, in certain
cases, and under certain limitations : the number of objects which
intervene, the degree of distinctness in which the minute parts
are seen, the degree of brightness, the inclination of the optic
axes, and the conformation of the eye. It will appear from the
sixty-second and sixty-third propositions that the two last are
associates to each other in their proper degrees, since each de
pends on the distance of the object. The influence of the three
first, as well as that of the magnitude of the picture on the retina,
is evident from the methods of expressing distance in pictures.
From the principles laid down in the last paragraph, we may
explain the following fallacies in vision. An object viewed
through a perspective appears to be nearer than it is, because
the picture on the retina is thereby rendered both larger, and
more distinct ; but if we invert the perspective, and so diminish
the picture, the object will appear farther off. At sea, and on
plains, where few or no objects intervene, we judge the distances
to be less than the truth ; and the contrary happens in scenes
diversified with a proper variety of objects. A large object, when
apprehended to be one of a common size, appears nearer than
the truth ; and the same happens, when we view objects in rural
scenes, such as houses, towns, hills, &c. in a bright light, or
through a very clear atmosphere. In trying to judge of small
distances by one eye, it is usual to be mistaken for want of the
criterion from the inclination of the optic axes.
Since our judgment concerning the magnitude of an unknown
object depends upon the distance, and our judgment concerning
the distance of every object chiefly upon that concerning its
magnitude, the conjectures of different persons, concerning the
magnitudes and distances of unknown remote objects, both as
seen through telescopes, and with the naked eye, may vary con
siderably from each other, according to their respective associated
prejudices. If the distance be fixed previously by a known object,
we may afterwards judge of the magnitude of an unknown object
thereby. The number of intervening objects, and the inclination
of the optic axes, seem to afford considerable assistance in deter
mining distances, where known objects are wanting ; the first in
large distances, the last in small ones : but the other three inferior
criterions above-mentioned, viz. the degree of distinctness, the
degree of brightness, and the conformation of the eye, when
singly taken, are of small signification.
We judge of motion by the motion of the pictures on the
128 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
retina, or of our eyes in following the objects. After some time,
we learn to make allowance for the line of direction, our own
motions, &c. If we fail to make the due allowance through
associated circumstances of any kind, we must, in consequence of
this, make a disproportionate estimate of motion, or place it in
an undue object.
We judge of the figure or shape of bodies, chiefly by the varia
tions of light and shade ; and our associations taken thence are
so strong, as that we are easily imposed upon by a just imitation
of the light and shades belonging to each shape and figure, in
their several situations with respect to the quarter from which
the illumination proceeds.
It is from the associations, considered under this proposition,
and particularly in the last paragraph, that painting conveys
such exact ideas of shapes, figures, magnitudes, and distances,
and the camera obscura of motions also, by means of impressions
that proceed from a plane surface.
The position of objects is judged of entirely by the part of the
retina on which the rays fall, if we be in an erect posture our
selves. If we be not, we allow for our deviation from it, or
make a reference to something judged to be in an erect posture.
If we fail in these, errors concerning the position of visible
objects must happen. Our calling bodies erect, when the rays
proceeding from their tops fall upon the lower parts of the
retina, and vice versd, is merely from an association of the same
kind with those by which the senses of other words are deter
mined.
Those who are disposed to examine the subjects of this and
the following proposition with accuracy, may see a large variety
of proper instances well explained by Dr. Smith, and Dr. Jurin,
in Dr. Smith's Optics. These gentlemen insist chiefly on optical
considerations ; but they every where admit the prevalence of
association, though it is not always to their purpose to take
express notice of it.
I will just remind the reader, that in all the cases of magni
tude, distance, motion, figure, and position, the visible idea is so
much more vivid and ready than the tangible one, as to prevail
over it, notwithstanding that our information from feeling is
more precise than that from sight, and the test of its truth.
However, if we could suppose a person to be endued with the
senses of seeing and hearing, and yet to be destitute of that of
feeling, and of the power of moving himself, he might have all
the words expressing distances, magnitudes, &c. so much, and
so properly, associated with the visible appearances of these, as
that, by passing over his ear, they would raise up all the same
trains of visible ideas, as in us.
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 129
Prop. LIX.— To examine how far the Circumstances of single
and double Vision are agreeable to the Doctrine of Association.
When we have attained a voluntary power over the external
motions of our eyes, so as to direct them to objects at pleasure,
we always do it in such a manner, as that the same points of
objects fall upon correspondent points of the two retinas. And
this correspondence between the respective points of the retinas
is permanent and invariable. Thus the central points, or those
where the optic axes terminate, always correspond; a certain
point on the right side of the right retina always corresponds
(whatever object we view) to another certain point on the right
side of the left retina, equally distant from the centre with it,
&c. Hence if the optic axes be directed to the object A, the
picture made by it on the right retina corresponds to that made
on the left ; whereas the impressions made by two similar objects,
A and B upon the two retinas, do not correspond. The impres
sions, therefore, that are made upon portions of the retinas,
which do or do not correspond, are the associated criterions of
single and double vision. For I here suppose, that the common
appearances of a single object, and two similar ones, are respec
tively called single and double vision.
Let us now inquire into the fallacies which these associated
criterions may occasion.
First, then, When a person directs his eyes by a voluntary
power to a point nearer or farther off than the object which he
views, so as to make the pictures of the object fall upon the
points of the two retinas, that do not correspond, this ob
ject will appear double. The same thing happens when one
eye is distorted by a spasm, when persons lose the voluntary
power of directing their optic axes to objects, and in general
whenever the pictures, which the object imprints on the two
retinas, fall upon points that do not correspond.
It resembles this, and illustrates it, that if we cross the fingers,
and roll a pea between two sides, which are not contiguous
naturally, it feels like two peas.
Secondly, After a person, whose eye is distorted by a spasm,
has seen double for a certain time, this ceases, and he gains the
power of seeing single again, provided the distortion remain fixed
to a certain degree. For the association between the points of
the two retinas, which corresponded formerly, grows weaker by-
degrees ; a new one also between points, that now correspond,
takes place, and grows stronger perpetually.
Thirdly, If two lighted candles, of equal height, be viewed at
the distance of. two or three feet from the eyes, so that the
picture of the right-hand candle on the left retina shall cor
respond to that of the left-hand candle on the right retina, only
one image will be produced by these two corresponding pictures.
But the two pictures which do not correspond, viz. that of the
K
130 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
right-hand candle on the right retina, and that of the left-hand
candle on the left retina, will each produce its proper image.
See Smith's Optics, Rem. 526.
But here two questions may be asked ; First, Why single
objects appear the same to one as to both eyes, allowing for the
diminution of brightness, since, in the first case, there is one
picture only, in the last two. Ought not every single object to
appear single to one eye, and double to both ?
Secondly, How can one object appear like two to both eyes,
since, however the eyes be directed or distorted, it can make but
two pictures, whereas two objects make four, viz. two in each
eye?
It is evident, that the difficulty is the same in both these
questions. And it seems to be a sufficient answer to allege, that
impressions so much alike, and which are so constantly made
retinas, must unite into one entirely in the brain, and produce
the same effect in kind, though somewhat different in degree, as
one alone. And thus whether we see with one eye or both,
hear with one ear or both, the impression, on the common
sensory in the brain is the same in kind ; and therefore, if the
first be called single, the other must also.
But it deserves particular attention here, that the optic nerves
of men, and such other animals as look the same way with
both eyes, unite in the sella turcica in a ganglion, or little brain,
as one may call it, peculiar to themselves ; and that the asso
ciations between synchronous impressions on the two retinas
must be made sooner, and cemented stronger, on this account ;
also that they ought to have a much greater power over one
another's images, than in any other part of the body. And thus
an impression made on the right eye alone by a single object may
propagate itself into the left, and there raise up an image almost
equal in vividness to itself: and consequently, when we see with
one eye only, we may, however, have pictures in both eyes ; and
when we see a single object, with our eyes directed to one at
a different distance, we may have four pictures, viz. two from
direct impression in parts that do not correspond, and two
others from association in parts that do. And thus both the
foregoing questions may be answered, in a manner that leaves no
doubt or hesitation.
Prop. LX.—To explain in what Manner and to what Degree,
agreeable and disagreeable Impressions on the Eye contribute,
in the Way of Association, to form our intellectual Pleasures
and Pains. ,
It is evident, that gay colours, of all kinds, are a principal
source of pleasure to young children ; and they seem to strike
them more particularly, when mixed together in various ways.
together, as those upon the iding portions of the two
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 131
Whether there be any thing in colours, which corresponds to the
harmony between sounds, may be doubted. If there be, it must,
however, admit of much greater latitude than the harmony
between sounds, since all mixtures and degrees of colours, unless
where the quantity of light overpowers the eye, are pleasant ;
however one colour may be more so originally than another.
Black appears to be originally disagreeable to the eyes of chil
dren ; it becomes disagreeable also very early from associated
influences. In adults, the pleasures of mere colours are very
languid in comparison of their present aggregates of pleasure,
formed by association. And thus the eye approaches more and
more, as we advance in spirituality and perfection, to an inlet for
mental pleasure, and an organ suited to the exigencies of a being,
whose happiness consists in the improvement of his understanding
and affections. However, the original pleasures of mere colours
remain, in a small degree, to the last, and those transferred upon
them by association with other pleasures (for the influence is in
these things reciprocal, without limits) in a considerable one.
So that our intellectual pleasures are not only at first generated,
but afterwards supported and recruited, in part, from the plea
sures affecting the eye ; which holds particularly in respect of
the pleasures afforded by the beauties of nature, and by the
imitations of them, which the arts of poetry and painting furnish
us with. And for the same reasons the disagreeable impressions
on the eye have some small share in generating and feeding
intellectual pains.
It deserves notice here, that green, which is the colour that
abounds far more than any other, is the middle one among the
primary colours, and the most universally and permanently
agreeable to the eye of any other ; also, that as the common
juice of vegetables is in general green, so that of animals is
in general red ; the first being, perhaps, of the third order, the
last of the second. It appears to be extremely worth the time
and pains of philosophers to inquire into the orders of the
colours of natural bodies, in the manner proposed and begun by
Sir Isaac Newton ; and particularly to compare the changes of
colour, which turn up in chemical operations, with the other
changes which happen to the subjects of the operations at the
same time. Nothing seems more likely than this to be a key to
the philosophy of the small parts of natural bodies, and of their
mutual influences.
Prop. LXL—To give an Account of the Ideas generated by
visible Impressions.
Here we may make the following observations :
First, that the ideas of this sense are far more vivid and
definite than those of any other; agreeably to which, the word
idea denoted these alone in its original and most peculiar sense.
K 2
132 THE SENSE. OF SIGHT.
Hence it is proper to make the strictest examination into the
ideas of this sense, and their properties, since it is probable, from
the analogies every where conspicuous in natural things, that
these are patterns of all the rest. Their peculiar vividness and
precision may therefore be considered as serving like a micro
scope in respect of other ideas, *. e. as magnifying their pro
perties.
Secondly, The vividness and precision here spoken of relate
chiefly to distance, magnitude, motion, figure, and position, i. e.
to the things considered in the fifty-eighth proposition. How
ever, colours leave distinct ideas of themselves ; but then they
require an exertion of our voluntary powers for the most part,
whereas the ideas of distances, magnitudes, &c. recur incessantly
in the trains which pass over the fancy.
Thirdly, The peculiar vividness and precision of visible ideas
may probably be owing to the following causes, as well as to
some peculiar unknown structure of the optic nerve, and corre
sponding region of the brain ; viz. the perpetual recurrency of
visible objects, either the same or similar ones, during the whole
time that we are awake ; the distinct manner in which they are
' impressed by means of the several proper conformations of the
eye ; and their being received in general upon the same part of
the retina, precisely or nearly. Tor, when we view any object
with attention, we make the central point of it fall upon the
central part of the retina. Farther, as the optic nerve sends off
no branches, but is spent wholly upon the retina, this may
perhaps contribute in some degree. And these considerations
may a little help us to conceive, how the optic nerve, and
corresponding region of the brain, may be the repository of such
an immense variety of visible ideas, as they are in fact.
Fourthly, The idea of every familiar object has, for the most
part, some particular magnitude, position, and aggregate of
associates, in its recurrences to the mind. And this somewhat
lessens the difficulty mentioned in the last paragraph. The
reason of this fourth observation is, that though every visible
object appears under different magnitudes, in different positions,
and with different associates, yet these differences destroy one
another, so that the strongest particularity only remains. How
ever, changes are made from time to time, each subsisting for a
short period, and then giving way to the next in succession.
Fifthly, We have fictitious visible ideas of places and per
sons that we have never seen, as well as of those which we
have. These are derived from association evidently, and they
often undergo successive changes, like those spoken of in the last
paragraph.
Sixthly, Our visible ideas are subject to the voluntary power
in a high degree, and may be called up by the slightest asso
ciated circumstance, at the same time that they have very
numerous connexions with other ideas, and with actual im
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 133
pressions. The name, or its idea in the region of the brain
corresponding to the ear, are the circumstances most commonly
made use of for calling up visible ideas. But there are many
ideas, *. e. internal feelings, which have no names, and which
yet, by attending our several visible ideas, get this power of
introducing them.
Here it is to be observed, that an idea cannot be said to be
voluntarily introduced, till it be previously determined by some
of its associates. If I desire to introduce a visible idea of any
kind, an individuum vagum, and that of a horse offers itself, it
was not owing to the command of my will, that it was a horse,
and nothing else, but to the connexion which the idea of a
horse had with some other idea or impression, which then hap
pened to take place. But if I desire to recollect the features of
a person's face, whom I saw yesterday, I make use of his name,
his dress, the place in which I saw him, or some other associated
circumstance, for this purpose. And this may be called a volun
tary introduction of an idea. However, the introduction of the
idea of a horse, in the circumstances just decribed, might be
termed voluntary in a different sense, if any person thought fit to
denominate it so, on account of the command of the will to
introduce some idea. My design here is, only to suggest to the
reader the processes generally made use of in these things. It is
to be observed farther, that the associated circumstance, which
determines what idea shall be called up voluntarily, does, for the
most part, raise it. Thus, if a person desire me to call up the
idea of a horse, the very sound of the word proceeding from his
mouth will do it, for the most part, immediately. If not, I go
back, by my memory, to the trace left by the word, and thence
to the idea, or to some common associate of both the word and
idea, capable of raising the last.
Seventhly, When we have conversed much with the same
visible objects, as after having been in a crowd, travelling, &c.
for many hours without intermission, we may find the ideas of
these objects peculiarly strong, so as to intrude upon our fancies,
and interfere with all our other ideas. This may serve to shew,
that the permanence of the sensations impressed, mentioned in
the third proposition, and\vhich shews itself particularly in visible
impressions, as there remarked, is of the nature of an idea. And
it coincides remarkably with this, that the ideas should be pecu
liarly vivid and precise in the same sense, where the permanency
of the sensation impressed is most conspicuous.
Eighthly, The ideas of sight and hearing, and the impressions
from whence they proceed, have a peculiar connexion with each
other. For as words pronounced call up visible ideas, so visible
ideas and objects call up the ideas of words, and the actions by
which they are pronounced.
Ninthly, The trains of visible ideas are in a particular manner
affected by the general states of the brain, as may appear from
134 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
the trains which present themselves in madness, phrensies, and
common deliriums. This agrees remarkably with what has been
already observed concerning the ideas of this sense ; and we may
infer from all together, that the regions of the brain correspond
ing to the optic nerve are comparatively large, or peculiarly
susceptive of impressions, or both.
Tenthly, The imagery of the eye sympathizes also remarkably
with the affections of the stomach. Thus the grateful impres
sions of opium upon the stomach raise up the ideas of gay
colours, and transporting scenes, in the eye; and spasms, and
indigestions, have often a contrary effect. The ghastly faces
which sometimes appear in idea, particularly after drinking tea,
seem to be an effect of this kind, or perhaps of the last-mentioned
one ; for they are common to persons of irritable nervous systems.
Ghastly faces may take place preferably to other disagreeable
ideas, perhaps because characters, affections, passions, are prin
cipally denoted and expressed by the countenance ; because
faces are the most common of visible objects, and attended to
with the greatest earnestness ; because we criticize much upon
the beauty of faces, and upon the proportion of the several
features to each other ; and because evil spirits (the notions of
which generally take strong and early possession of our fancies.)
are painted with ghastly faces. This mixture of reasons hinders
each particular one from being so obvious, as might otherwise be
expected; however, the same thing is common in many other
cases. The trains of visible ideas, which occur in dreams, are
deducible, partly from the sympathy here mentioned, partly from
that of the last paragraph.
Eleventhly, Our stock of visible ideas may be considered as a
key to a great part in our knowledge, and a principal source of
invention in poetry, painting, mathematics, mechanics, and almost
every other branch of the arts and sciences. In mathematics
and mechanics the invention of the diagram is, in effect, the
solution of the problem. Our memories are also much assisted
by our visible ideas in respect of past facts, and the preservation
of the order of time depends in a particular manner upon our
visible trains suggesting each other in due succession. Hence
eye-witnesses generally relate in order of time, without any
express design of doing so. This recollection of visible ideas, in
the order in which they were impressed, gives rise to the loci
memoriales, in which matters principally worthy of remembrance
are to be reposited, and to the artificial memory, that is borrowed
from the eye; just as the facility of remembering words formed
into verses does to the artificial memory borrowed from the ear.
It may deserve notice here, that some persons have imaginary
places for the natural numbers, as far as 100, or farther.
Twelfthly, The ideas which different persons have of the same
persons' faces, though they be very like one another, cannot yet
be precisely the same, on account of the addition and omission
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 135
of little circumstances, and a variety of associated ones, which
intermix themselves here. Hence the same picture may appear
much more like to one person than to another, viz. according as
it resembles his idea more or less.
Thirteenthly, Painters, statuaries, anatomists, architects, &c.
see at once what is intended by a picture, draught, &c. from the
perfection of their visible ideas ; and carry off the scene, plan,
&c. in their memories, with quickness and facility. All which is
still owing to association. But it would be endless to enumerate
the instances of associations which this sense affords.
Fourteenthly, It is probable, that fables, parables, similes,
allegory, &c. please, strike, and instruct, chiefly on account of
the visible imagery which they raise up in the fancy. They are
also much more easily remembered on the same account. We
may add, that idolatry, heathenish and popish, has made a much
quicker and more extensive progress in the world on account of
the stability and vividness of risible impressions and ideas, and
the difficulty, obscurity, and changeable nature, of abstract
notions. And image worship seems even to have been derived in
great measure from this source.
Fifteenthly, It would be a matter of great curiosity and use (as
far as these speculations can be of any use) to inquire carefully
into the progress of the mind, and particularly the fancy, in
persons born blind, and compare the result with what is ad
vanced under this proposition, and with other parts of these
papers, in order to correct and improve the theory of association
thereby. It is probable, that they are considerable losers, upon
the whole, in respect]of knowledge ; though their greater degree of
attention, and the superior acuteness of the senses of feeling and
hearing, and, consequently, perfection of the ideas of these senses,
must give them some particular advantages.
Prop. LXII. — To explain the automatic Motions which are
excited by Impressions made on the Eye.
These motions are of two kinds, external and internal. The
external are the motions of the globe of the eye, those of the
eyelids, and the contractions of the lacrymal, and other neigh
bouring glands, whereby they are evacuated. The internal are
the contractions of the greater and lesser muscular rings of the
iris, of the radiated fibres of the iris, and of the ciliar ligaments.
I will speak of each of these in order.
I begin with the motions of the globe of the eye. And here I
observe, first, that the white tendinous expansions of the four
straight muscles reach as far as the cornea; and consequently, that
they are thereby exposed in a particular manner to the action of
light, when the eye is open, being covered with nothing but a
thin membrane. However, the tendinous expansions of the
adducent and abducent are much more exposed than those of the
13G THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
attollens and deprimens ; and if the eye be but a little open, the
light cannot fall upon these last at all.
Secondly, If a luminous object be placed upon the right side,
so as that the light shall fall in a particular manner upon the
tendinous expansion of the abducens of the right eye, and of the
adducens of the left, it may by contracting these muscles make
the eyes move in a congruous manner, turning them towards
itself; and the tendency of the eyes to move towards the right
side ought not to cease, till the adducens and abducens in each
eye have an equal quantity of light fall upon them from the
luminous object, i. e. till the optic axis be directed to it. In
which case the eyes would be in cpquilibrio, as far as they are
under the influence of the light which falls upon the tendinous
expansions of the straight muscles.
Thirdly, It agrees remarkably with the two last paragraphs,
that new-born children move their eyes in a congruous manner ;
that the motions are chiefly to the right and left, scarce upwards
and downwards at all, the eyelids being seldom so much opened
as to expose the tendinous expansions of the attollens and depri
mens ; and that their eyes are frequently turned towards luminous
objects, such as a candle, or a window.
Fourthly, But it is not necessary, that the eyes of new-born
children should always turn to the luminous object, or remain
fixed upon it. For every muscle, when it has exhausted itself
by contraction, gives place to its antagonist of course. If there
fore the luminous object be much on one side, the eyes ought to
turn back from it almost immediately. To which we may add,
that various luminous objects generally affect the eyes at the
same time ; that the four straight muscles do naturally balance each
other, and keep the eyes in a right forward position ; and that
the oblique muscles scarce favour any particular oblique position,
though they do prepare the eye to turn with greater facility, in
compliance with the contraction of any one of the four straight
muscles. There are therefore sufficient sources for a variety of
motions in the globes of the eyes, without destroying their
congruity.
Fifthly, It is worthy of attention here, that the attollentes and
deprimentes do not want the same external influence of light to
make them move in a congruous manner, as the adducentes and
abducentes ; inasmuch as one adducens, and one abducens, must
act together to make the eyes move congruously to the right
and left ; whereas the two attollentes, and two deprimentes, act
together in the congruous motions upwards and downwards. As
far therefore as the nerves of one side sympathize with the corre
sponding nerves of the other in the influences which descend
from the brain, there will be a natural tendency in the eyes to
move upwards and downwards in a congruous manner, and to
the right and left in an incongruous one. And this suits well
with the greater exposition of the tendinous expansions of the
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 137
'adducentes and abducentes, before taken notice of. For what
reason so many pairs of nerves are concerned in the motions of
the globe of the eye, and of the eyelid, remains to be inquired.
Sixthly, It may perhaps be, that the light which passes in at
the pupil has some efficacy in moving the globe of the eye, either
by unknown communications in the brain between the optic
nerve, and the third, fourth, and sixth pairs, or perhaps by pene
trating in a small degree through the retina, choroides, and
sclerotica, to the four straight muscles. If this last influence could
be allowed, it would oppose that exerted upon the tendinous
expansions ; but would, however, join with it in preserving the
congruity of the motions.
> Seventhly, As the two oblique muscles neither have tendinous
expansions exposed to the light, nor adhere to the globe of the
eye, except just at their insertion, they cannot be under either of
the influences here supposed to affect the straight muscles, but
must be subject chiefly to those which descend from the brain ;
thus acting almost uniformly, unless in particular agitations of the
whole nervous system. And this agrees well with the fact, and
with the uses generally assigned to these muscles, viz. those of
keeping the eye in a moderate suspension always, and drawing it
out on eminent occasions.
Eighthly, The circumstances which occasion squinting in young
children, agree well with the theory here proposed. Thus, if a
child be laid so into his cradle, as that one eye shall be covered,
the external influences of light cannot operate upon it. And if
this be often repeated, especially while the association which con
firms the congruity of the motions is weak, the eye which is
covered will obey the influences which descend from the brain,
and turn upwards and inwards for the most part. What turns
the scale in favour of this position, remains to be inquired.
The second of the external motions is that of the eyelids, or
the actions of the elevator, and orbicularis palpebrarum. What
«xcites the first to constant action during the whole time that the
new-born child is awake, is difficult to say. Perhaps the action
of light upon the white of the eye, sending vibrations under the
upper eyelid, and thence into the fibres of the elevator: or the
direct action of light through the skin ; for it is a cutaneous
muscle: or influences which descend into the third pair from the
second, i. e. the optic nerve : or the friction from the globe of
the eye in its motions, which may also make the eyelid sympathize
in motion with the eye : or the aggregate of all these. As to the
orbicularis, it is evidently put into action by irritations affecting
the eye, as from dust, flies, &c. even in adults.
The third of the external motions, or the contraction of the
lacrymal and other neighbouring glands, arises from irritations in
the eye, nose, fauces, and scalp of the head. The manner in
which these irritations operate, has been sufficiently explained
under Prop. LIII.
138 THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
Of the internal motions I will consider the contraction of the
greater and lesser rings together, as proceeding from the same
causes, and being cotemporaneous ; and, for the same reasons,
the contraction of the radiated fibres, and ciliar ligament, together
also. By the first the eye is fitted for distinct vision at small
distances, by the other at great ones. Thus, let us suppose a
candle to be brought nearer and nearer to the child's eye. It is
evident, that the quantity of light which falls upon the eye will
grow greater and greater. It will therefore agitate all the circular
fibres of the iris more powerfully, and particularly the greater
and lesser rings ; i. e. it will bend the cornea into a greater con
vexity, bring the origin of the ciliar ligament nearer to its insertion
in the capsula of the crystalline, i. e. suffer the capsula to become
more convex also, and narrow the pupil, i. e. lessen the radius of
dissipation. The image of the candle upon the retina may there
fore continue to be distinct, as it approaches, by this mechanical
influence of light upon the eye. And, for the same reasons, it
may continue distinct, as it recedes. But there are limits on
both hands. And thus the conformations of the eye necessary
for distinct vision, according to Dr. Jurin's most accurate account
of this matter, are brought about automatically, and suitably to
the general theory of these papers.
However, it is also probable, that the light which passes in at
the pupil, has great efficacy in contracting both the greater and
lesser rings, as may be concluded from the immobility of the
pupil in a gutta serena; also because, on this supposition, the
light, which passes in at the pupil must, by contracting the lesser
ring, become a check and guard against its own too free admission,
which is agreeable to the tenor of nature in like instances. The
retina extends to the greater ring, and may send some nervous
fibres to it, and even to the iris.
One or both of these actions of light seem to increase the
secretion and circulation of the aqueous humour in new-born
children, so as to fit the eye for vision, which it is not, through
the deficiency and muddiness of the aqueous humour, till some
time after birth. This again may be considered as a circumstance
that favours our present conjectures.
As to the radiated fibres of the iris, and the ciliar ligament,
they do not seem so much to be excited to action by any external
influence, as to be kept in a state of constant small activity by
the vibrations which descend from the brain. When therefore
the rings are relaxed, the radiated fibres will open the pupil, and
the ciliar ligament draw out the capsula of the crystalline to a
flatter shape, and thus suit the eye to obscure and distant
objects.
THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 139
Prop. LXIII.—To explain the Manner and Degree, in which the
automatic Motions, mentioned in the last Proposition, are in
fluenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary Powers.
Since the motions of the eyes are in every instance congruous,
from the instant of birth, an associated tendency thereto is
generated sooner, and more firmly established, than perhaps in
any other case. As therefore the external influence of light, by
growing languid, comes to have less and less effect perpetually for
this purpose, so the associated tendency grows stronger and
stronger; and the sum total of both may perhaps be always
about equal.
However, this congruity does not seem to be so great in
children as in adults, who can direct their optic axes by a per
fectly voluntary power to the object which they intend to view
with attention. We must examine therefore, how the almost
perfect congruity becomes an entirely perfect one. /
Now, here we are to observe, that the almost perfect congruity
begets an almost perfect correspondency in the points of the
retina ; and that hence it will follow by degrees, that the least
deviation from perfect congruity will occasion double vision, and
confusion. But these are unpleasant and inconvenient, whereas
single and distinct vision is pleasant and convenient. Whence
every recurrency of the last will tend to confirm it, of the first to
exclude it, from principles already laid down, Prop. XXII. Cor. I.
The child will therefore come to a perfect congruity at last, i. e.
to direct his optic axes precisely to the point which he intends
to view. The voluntary power of suiting the internal motions to
the distance must be supposed to grow perfect about the same
time.
It agrees with this method of reasoning, that persons who lose
the sight of one eye in their childhood or youth, though long
after the external action of light has lost its efficacy for making
the motions congruous, generally squint a little with that eye.
The persons who squint, preserving the sight of the squinting
eye, are obliged to move their eyes in a congruous manner, for
the same reason as others, viz. to avoid double vision, though the
position be incongruous.
The constant action of the elevator palpebral superioris in
adults seems to be entirely from custom, i. e. association, being
kept up in a more particular manner by the variety of visible
objects, which engage our attention during the course of the day.
It is generally some time before children get the voluntary
power of shutting the eyes gently, or of shutting one and not the
other. They can shut them with force soon, this action recurring
often from motes in the eyes, pain of any kind, &c. The pro
cedure here is of the same kind as in other voluntary actions.
The internal motions depend originally upon the greater or
less quantity of light which falls upon the cornea and iris, as has
140 THE SENSE OF HEARING.
been observed already. But the nearness and remoteness of the
luminous object are the respective associates of these. The
muscular rings therefore, which at first contracted only when
very luminous objects approached, will afterwards contract when
moderately luminous ones do. And thus vision will be made
distinct in general. But distinct vision, by recurring, will per
petuate and perfect itself, and indistinct check and abolish itself,
from the agreeableness and disagreeableness accompanying them
respectively, by Prop. XXII. Cor. I. till at last the child gets a
perfectly voluntary power of suiting his eyes to the distance.
Adults seem to have a power of preparing the eyes previously to
see at a proposed distance; and some to have a semi-voluntary
power of contracting and dilating the pupil, viz. by fancying a
bright object near, and a dark one far off; though the quantity
of light which falls upon the eye remains the same.
SECT. V.
THE SENSE OF HEARING.
Prop. LXIV.—To assign the immediate Organ of Hearing, and
to explain in general the Uses of the several Parts of the ex
ternal and internal Ear.
The immediate organ of hearing appears to be the soft portion
of the seventh pair of nerves, distributed in the cochlea, and
semi-circular canals. What the particular uses of these cavities
are, is not known. They bear some obscure likeness to the
instruments commonly made use of for increasing either the
loudness of sounds, or the effects of them upon the ear ; just as
the coats and humours of the eye resemble lenses. The auditory
nerve is also like the optic in detaching no branches off to the
neighbouring parts ; and there are many other instances of re
semblance between these two most refined and spiritual, if one
may so say, of our senses ; some of which I shall mention in the
course of this Section.
The auricle and meatus auditorius are cartilaginous, and seem
by this means to be peculiarly fitted for receiving and retaining
the vibrations of the air, and for communicating them to the
membrana tympani.
This membrane appears to be kept in a state of constant ten
sion by muscles, that act upon the small bones in different ways,
and thus to. be fitted for vibrating synchronously to the several
sounds which affect it. Agreeably to which, the degree of
tension varies, so as to be less when the musculus externus and
THE SENSE OF HEARING. 141
cbliquus act, greater when these are relaxed, and the internus
acts. The degree of sensibility both in the membrane itself, and
in the whole organ, is probably greater when the tension is
greater.
The vibrations of the air seem to shake off the mucus which
lodges upon the membrana tympani in the new-born child, just
as the action of light tits the cornea, and aqueous humour, for
vision.
The eustachian tube serves to supply the cavity of the tym
panum with air, to carry off the vapour which exhales into it,
and perhaps to increase the effects of sounds by the tremors in
its cartilaginous extremity, and particularly those of the person's
own voice.
The stapes, its muscle, and the foramen ovale, seem designed
to convey the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the auditory
nerve, in a precise manner. But the vibrations excited in its
aether may be much more frequent than those of the membrana
tympani, as has already been observed.
There does not appear to be any method for conveying air
into the cavities of the vestibulum cochlea, and semi-circular
canals, nor any necessity or use for it there. The great hardness
of the bony part of the organ of hearing may make it more easily
susceptible of vibrations. Agreeably to which, it may be ob
served, that we can hear imperfectly, though the ears, nose, and
mouth, be all stopped, and consequently all access to the mem
brana tympani by the vibrations of the air denied. The vibra
tions are here excited probably in the cartilages of the auricle
and meatus, and in the bones of the skull, and thus communicated
to the cochlea, and semi-circular canals. It seems to agree with
this, that some partially deaf persons can hear best, when driven
in a coach over stones or gravel ; i. e. when all the parts of their
bodies, and particularly those of the bones, are put into a vibrating
motion.
The bony part of the organ of hearing seems to come to its
full size early in life. Is not the final cause of this, that one
part may, on account of its size, be most disposed to vibrate with
one tone, another with another? And does not this hold parti
cularly in respect of the lamina spiralis ? For thus the same
tone would be affixed and associated to the same nerves, so as to
affect them peculiarly, from childhood or youth to old age.
Prop. LXV.—To examine how far the Phcenomena of musical
and other inarticulate Sounds are agreeable to the Doctrine of
Vibrations.
Here we may consider, first, the different strength of sounds.
Now, as this arises from the different condensation of the air in
the pulses, so the effect which it has upon the membrana tym
pani, the membrane of the foramen ovale, and the nerves of
142 THE SENSE OF HEARING.
hearing, must be different likewise, and afford the mind a suffi
cient foundation for distinguishing sounds in respect of strength
and feebleness.
Secondly, the gravity and acuteness of sounds arise from the
slowness or frequency of the vibrations. Now, as the vibrating
of the membrana tympani are synchronous to those of the air,
they may either excite synchronous ones in the particles of the
auditory nerves, and thus be distinguished from each other in
respect of frequency by the mind ; or if every pulse of the air,
and oscillation of the membrana tympani, excite innumerable
infinitesimal vibrations in the auditory nerves, the renewal of
these at different intervals according to the different gravity or
acuteness of the sound will, however, afford a like criterion.
It may be remarked, that grave sounds are in general strong,
acute ones feeble. For the bodies which yield grave sounds are
in general large, and consequently will make an impression upon
the air by a large number of trembling particles.
Thirdly, all very loud noises are disagreeable. Now it is easy
to conceive, that very violent agitations of the membrana tym
pani may produce the solution of continuity in the small medul
lary particles of the auditory nerve. An inflammation in the
small vessels of the auditory nerve may render it so susceptible
of violent vibrations, as to be hurt by gentle sounds, as sometimes
happens in distempers ; and to produce that acuteness in the
sense of hearing, which answers to the nyctalopia in the eye.
Fourthly, Single musical, i. e. uniform sounds, whether vocal
or instrumental, are pleasant in proportion to their loudness,
provided this be not excessive. We must therefore suppose here,
that the repeated impulses of the air, at equal distances, make
the vibrations approach to the solution of continuity ; yet still so
as to fall short of it.
Fifthly, Two musical notes sounded together, suppose upon
an organ or violin, afford a greater original pleasure than one,
provided the ratios of their vibrations be sufficiently simple.
Thus any note sounded with its eighth, fifth, fourth, third major
or minor, sixth major or minor, affords pleasure, the ratios being
here, respectively, those of 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3 to 4, 4 to 5, 5 to 6,
3 to 5, and 5 to 8, which are all very simple ones. But a note with
its flat or sharp, second, or seventh, or flat fifth, is originally
disagreeable. It may be observed also, that concords seem to be
originally pleasant in proportion to the simplicity of the ratios
by which they are expressed, i. e. in the order above set down.
Hence we may perhaps suspect, that even the concords were
originally unpleasant to the ear of the child, from the irregularity
of the vibrations which they impress upon the membrana tympani,
and consequent solution of continuity ; and that they fell at last
within the limits of pleasure, as many other pains do, by repe
tition. For thus those concords in which the ratios are simplest
would become pleasant first, and the others would continue to
THE SENSE OF HEARING. 143
excite pain, or to border upon it. It is agreeable to this, that
discords become at last pleasant to the ears of those that are
much conversant in music, and that the too frequent recurrency
of concords cloys.
Sixthly, Concords sounded in succession seem to have the
same effect, in kind, upon the ear, as when sounded together,
only less in degree. But discords in succession do not offend,
unless the chromatic succession of half notes, or some such re
markable ones, and even these please at last. All this follows
easily from the last paragraph ; and the present paragraph, with
the two last, taken together, contain the principal grounds of the
natural and original pleasures of music. The pleasures which it
derives from association will be considered hereafter.
Prop. LXVI.—To examine how far the Judgments which we
make concerning the Distance and Position of the sounding
Body are agreeable to the Doctrine of Association.
Sounds ought to decrease in the reciprocal duplicate ratio of
the distance, did they not receive some support from the re
flection of the bodies over which they pass. This makes them
decrease in a less ratio ; however, they do decrease in general
with the distance ; and this decrease, being an associate of the
increase of distance, ought to suggest it to the imagination. And,
agreeably to this, we may observe, that, when the wind opposes
the sound of bells, they appear farther off; when a person calls
through a speaking trumpet, he appears nearer, than at the true
distance.
As to the position of the sounding body we have no clear or
certain criterion, unless it be very near us ; so as that the pulses
may strike one ear, or one part of the head, considerably stronger
than another. Hence we judge of the position of the speaker, or
sounding body, by the eye, or by some other method independent
on the ear. And thus, if from some mistaken presumption a
voice, or sound, shall be deemed to come from a quarter different
from the true place of it, we shall continue in that error from the
strength of that mistaken presumption.
By laying these things together, and also considering farther,
that indistinctness in articulate sounds is an associated mark of
distance, we may see how ventriloqui, or persons that speak in
their throats, without moving their lips, impose upon the audi
ence. Their voice is faint and indistinct, and therefore appears
to come from a more distant quarter than the speaker. The
hearers look about therefore, and, being surprised, their imagina
tion fixes strongly upon that corner, or cavity, which appears
most plausible; and afterwards they continue to impose upon
themselves by the strength of this prejudice.
144. THE SENSE OF HEARING.
Prop. LXVII.—To examine how far the Power of distinguishing
articulate Sounds depends upon the Power of Association.
One may suppose the external and internal ear to be so formed',
as that all the differences in the vibrations of the air, which arrive
at the ear, may affect the auditory nerves with corresponding
differences. Let us therefore first consider in what manner dif
ferent sounds impress different vibrations upon the air.
First, then, Since not only the parts about the throat, but
those of the mouth, cheeks, and even of the whole body, espe
cially of the bones, vibrate in speaking, the figure of the vibra
tions impressed upon the air by the human voice will be different
from that of the vibrations proceeding from a violin, flute, 8cc.
provided the distance be not too great. This therefore may be
considered as one help for distinguishing articulate sounds from
all others.
Secondly, Articulation consists in breaking out from a whisper
into sound, or closing the sound in different manners, the organs
of speech being put also into different shapes, so as to join the
differences mentioned in the last paragraph with various eruptions
and interruptions, ascents and descents of sound. And thus each
letter may be distinguished from every other by hearing.
Thirdly, It is agreeable to all this, that it is difficult at great
distances to distinguish the tone of one musical instrument from
another, or of any from the tone of a human voice, cateri*
paribus ; or to distinguish articulate sounds from one another.
For at great distances the vibrations of the air are circular to
sense, and all the ascents, descents, eruptions and interruptions
of sound, which distinguish one compound sound from another,
are confounded by numberless reflections from the intermediate
bodies.
Fourthly, We may observe, that as the preserving the distinc
tion of place is the chief end of the coats and humours in the
organ of sight, so the distinction of time is of the greatest im
portance in hearing. It seems probable therefore, that the
membrana tympani, small bones, and their muscles, are so
contrived, as by their actions to preserve the distinction of time,
i. e. to extinguish strong sounds, and to keep up weak ones, so
as that the last may not be too much overpowered by the con
tinuance of the first ; just as the treble notes of a harpsichord
would be by the bass ones, did not the bits of cloth affixed to
the jacks check the vibration of the strings in due time.
Having now shown how articulate sounds may be distinguished
from one another, and from all other sounds ; I next observe,
that, in fact, the speakers do not pronounce so articulately and
distinctly in common conversation, as to furnish the hearers
with the requisite criterions according to the foregoing theory ;
but that we arrive at a facility of understanding one another's
discourse, chiefly by the power of association.
TIIF. SKNSE OF HF.ARING.
And, first, It is needless to pronounce every letter so as to
distinguish it from all others. For then words, which are com
posed of letters, would each have as many criterions as they have
letters, and even more ; for the order of the letters is a criterion,
as well as the sound of each letter. In like manner, sentences
would have as many compound criterions as they have words,
besides the criterion arising from the particular order of the
words.
Secondly, Since words are formed from combinations, not
according to any rule, which brings up all the combinations of
twos, threes, &c. in order, but by particular associations, agree
ably to the nature of each language, since also sentences are
formed in the same way, the several component parts of words
and sentences suggest each other, and also the whole words and
sentences, by the power of association. Thus the beginning is
commonly observed to suggest the whole, both in words and
sentences ; and the same is true, in a less degree, of the middles
and ends.
Thirdly, The subject matter of the discourse, the gestures
used in speaking, a familiar acquaintance with the particular
Toice, pronunciation, gestures, &c. of the speaker, and other
associated circumstances, contribute greatly also. And there
fore, on the other hand, we find it difficult to distinguish proper
names, and the words of an unknown language, and to understand
a person that is a stranger, or that uses no action.
We may see also, that it is chiefly by the means of associated
circumstances, that the sounds uttered by ventriloqui suggest to
us the words which they are supposed to pronounce ; for their
articulation must be very incomplete, as they do not move their
lips at all.
It is by a like set of associated circumstances that we are
enabled to read with so much facility the irregular hand-writing
of various persons, and of some more than others, in proportion
as we are better acquainted with the subject, language, hand
writing, &c. . .
Prop. LXVIII.—The Doctrine of Sounds illustrates andfavours
that of the Vibrations of the small medullary Particles of the
Brain, and nervous System.
For the theory of sounds deduced from the nature of an
elastic fluid, and the tremors of the particles of sounding bodies,
and afterwards verified, as it has been, by numerous experiments,
becomes a guide to us in all inquiries into the vibrations of other
elastic mediums, such as the aether, and into the effects, which
such vibrations must impart to and receive from the small par
ticles that are surrounded by the elastic medium. And the
general tendency which is found in natural bodies, either to
yield a sound upon percussion, or at least to support and convey
L
146 THE SENSE OF HEARING.
sounds by receiving isochronous vibrations, and reflecting them,
shews, that there are latent active powers in the small parts of
bodies, which dispose them to vibrate. Now, if there be such
powers in the biggest component particles, analogy inclines one
to expect them in the several descending orders.
The doctrine of sounds does also furnish us with an answer to
one of the principal and most obvious difficulties attending the
supposition, that all sensation, thought, and motion, is performed,
by vibrations in the medullary substance. For it may be
objected, that such a number of different vibrations as seems to
be required in certain cases, can scarce exist together in the
medullary substance. Thus it is not uncommon for a person to
receive a series of sensations, carry on a train of thought, and
perform a course of external actions, which have little connexion
with each other, at the same time. Now to this we may answer,
that vibrations as different from each other do, in fact, exist
together in common air, in such a manner as to be perceived
distinctly. Thus a person may listen to what part he pleases in
a concert of music, and masters in the art can listen to more
than one. They can also at the same time receive, attend to,
and understand the vibrations of the air, arising from the dis
course of other persons. But in whatever manner these different
vibrations can exist together precisely at the same instant, or
rather succeed each other at infinitesimal intervals, without
confusion ; in the same manner may vibrations and vibratiuncles
exist together, or succeed each other, without confusion also, in
the medullary substance. And by whatever power the soul
is qualified to attend to, and distinguish from each other,
these several vibrations of the air, by the same power may it
correspond to the vibrations in the medullary substance, so that
each shall have its peculiar effect of producing the appropriated
sensation, thought, and motion. It is to be observed farther,
that there is a difficulty in performing both the things here
mentioned ; that confusion does often arise ; and that where any
person is remarkable for doing more than one thing at once, it is
in consequence of great practice, and also of exquisite mental
powers, i. e. of an exquisite make of the medullary substance,
according to the theory of these papers.
Prop. LXIX.— To explain in what Manner, and to what Degree,
agreeable and disagreeable Sounds contribute, in the way of
Association, to the Formation of our intellectual Pleasures and
Pains.
As all moderate and tolerably uniform sounds please young
children, and the original pleasures from concords sounded
together, from the succession of both concords and discords, and
even from clear musical sounds, considered separately, remain
with us through the whole progress of life, it is evident, that
THE SENSE OF HEARING. 147
many of our intellectual pleasures must be illuminated and aug
mented by them. And on the contrary, harsh, irregular, and
violently loud noises must add something to the disagreeableness
of the objects and ideas with which they are often associated.
The pleasures of music are composed, as has been already
observed, partly of the original, corporeal pleasures of sound,
and partly of associated ones. When these pleasures are arrived
at tolerable perfection, and the several compounding parts
cemented sufficiently by association, they are transferred back
again upon a great variety of objects and ideas, and diffuse joy,
good-will, anger, compassion, sorrow, melancholy, &c. upon the
various scenes and events of life ; and so on reciprocally without
perceptible limits.
The corporeal pleasures from articulate sounds are either
evanescent from the first, or, however, become so very early in
life. By this means we are much better qualified to receive
information, with mental pleasure and improvement, from them ;
and the ear becomes, like the eye, a method of perception suited
to the wants of a spiritual being. And indeed when we compare
the imperfections of such as have never heard, with those of
persons that have never seen, it appears, that the ear is of much'
more importance to us, considered as spiritual beings, than the
eye. This is chiefly owing to the great use and necessity of
words for the improvement of our knowledge, and enlargement
of our affections ; of which I shall have particular occasion to
treat hereafter. An accurate inquiry into the mental progress
of persons deprived of the advantages of language, by being born
deaf, would be a still better test of the theory of these papers,
than a like inquiry concerning persons born blind.
Prop. LXX.— To give an Account of the Ideas generated by
audible Impressions.
The ideas which audible impressions leave in the region of the
brain, that corresponds to the auditory nerves, are, next to the
ideas of sight, the most vivid and definite of any ; and all the
observations above made upon the ideas of sight may be applied
to those of hearing, proper changes and allowances being made.
Thus, after hearing music, conversing much with the same
person, in general disorders of the brain, or particular ones of the
nervous spasmodic kind in the stomach, after taking opium, in
dreams, in madness, trains of audible ideas force themselves upon
the fancy, in nearly the same manner, as trains of visible ideas
do in like cases. And it may be, that in passing over words with
our eye, in viewing objects, in thinking, and particularly in
writing and speaking, faint miniatures of the sounds of words
pass over the ear. I even suspect, that in speaking, these
miniatures are the associated circumstances which excite the
action, be it voluntary, or secondarily automatic. For children
l 2
THE SENSE OF HEARING.
learn to speak chiefly by repeating the sounds which they hear,
i. e. these sounds are the associated circumstances which excite to
action. But if the sound does this, the idea of it must get the
same power by degrees. I grant indeed, that the pictures of
words in the eye, and their ideas, may be like associated circum
stances, exciting to speak ; and since it is necessary, according
to the theory of these papers, that every semi-voluntary,
voluntary, and secondarily automatic action should be excited by
an associated circumstance, one may reckon words seen, and
their visible ideas, amongst the number of such circumstances.
But words heard, and their audible ideas, have a prior claim ;
and, in persons who cannot read or write, almost the only one.
It confirms this, that in writing one is often apt to mis-spell in
conformity with the pronunciation, as in writing hear for here ;
for this may proceed from the audible idea, which is the same in
both cases ; cannot from the visible one. Where a person mis
spells suitable to a mispronunciation, which sometimes happens,
it can scarce be accounted for upon other principles. However,
in writing, the associated circumstance, which excites the action of
the hand, is most probably the visible idea of the word, not the
audible one.
If it be objected to the supposition of these audible trains,
that we ought to be conscious of them, I answer, that we are in
some cases ; which is an argument, that they take place in all,
in a less degree ; that the greater vividness of the visible trains
makes us not attend to or recollect them, till the consciousness
or memory be vanished ; and that even visible trains do not
appear as objects of consciousness and memory, till we begin
to attend to them, and watch the evanescent perceptions of our
minds.
The ideas of sight and hearing together are the principal
storehouse of the fancy or imagination ; and the imaginative arts
of painting and music stand in the same relation to them respec
tively. Poetry comprehends both by taking in language, which
is the general representative of all our ideas and affections.
As there is an artificial memory relative to the eye, by which
trains of visible ideas, laid up in the memory in a certain order,
are made to suggest both things themselves, and the order in
which we desire to remember them ; so compendious trains of
technical words formed into verses may be made to suggest
other words, also the numeral figures in a certain order ; and by
this means, to bring to view, at pleasure, the principles and
materials of knowledge for meditation, inquiry, and more perfect
digestion by the mind, as appears from Dr. Grey's Memoria
Technica. The visible loci make a stronger impression on the
fancy, and therefore excel the audible ones in that view ; but
the audible ones have a much more ready and definite connexion
with the things to be remembered; and therefore seem most
proper, upon the whole, in most branches of literature. And as
THE SENSE OF HEARING. 149
Dr. Grey's method is highly useful in general, so it is particularly
excellent in respect of all memorables that are represented by
numeral figures. For, when the numeral figures are denoted by
letters, collections of them, such as dates, and quantities of all
kinds, make short and definite impressions upon the ear; which
are not only easy to be remembered, but also preserve the order
of the figures without danger of error: whereas neither the
impressions which collections of figures make upon the eye, nor
those which their enunciations in words at length make upon the
ear, can be remembered with facility or precision ; because
neither figures, nor their names, cohere together, so as that
the precedent shall suggest the subsequent ; as the letters
do in collections of them, capable of being pronounced. When
the technical word coincides with, or approaches to, a familiar
one, it is remembered with greater facility. Association is
every where conspicuous in these things.
Prop. LXXI.—To explain the automatic Motions, which are
excited by Impressions made on the Ear.
It does not appear at all improbable, that the vibrations, which
are excited by sounds in the cartilages of the auricle and meatus
auditorius, should pass into the small muscles of the auricle, and
there occasion automatic motions. And I guess in particular,
that in very loud sounds, the cartilages would be made to lie
closer to the head. But the smallness of these muscles, and the
practice of binding down the ears of new-born children close to
the head, which restrains the natural action of these muscles,
whatever it might be, prevent our making any certain judgment.
As to the four muscles which belong to the small bones, it
appears to me, that since the externus and obliquus lie out of the
tympanum, exposed to the common air, and are also so situated,
that the externus may receive vibrations from the cartilage of the
meatus auditorius, the obliquus from the cartilage of the processus
ravianus, into which it is inserted, they must be much more
affected by loud sounds, than the internus or musculus stapedis.
It follows therefore, that the membrana tympani will be relaxed
automatically by loud sounds. Here therefore is another remark
able coincidence between efficient and final causes.
For what reasons the musculus internus, and musculus stapedis, *
may act peculiarly in weak sounds, is difficult to say. They may
perhaps, as was above conjectured of the radiated fibres of the
iris, depend chiefly on the influenceswhich descend from the brain,
and therefore act always, when the other two will give them leave.
It is most probable, that the four muscles act in various propor
tions and combinations, so as to answer a variety of purposes.
But there is very little, that is satisfactory, to be met with in
books of anatomy and physiology hitherto, concerning the peculiar
minute uses and functions of the several parts of the organ of
hearing.
150 THE DESIRES OF THE
Prop. LXXII.—To explain the Manner and Degree, in which
the automatic Motions, mentioned in the last Proposition, are
influenced by voluntary and semi-voluntary Powers.
Since grave sounds are in general loud, acute ones weak, the
relaxation of the membrana tympani, which first attends upon
loud sounds automatically, will afterwards, by association, be
made to attend upon grave ones, even though they are hot loud ;
and, in like manner, the membrane will be tense, from acute
sounds, though they should be strong ; *. e. the membrane will,
by association, be fitted to vibrate isochronously with the several
tones; just as the convexity of the cornea is made by association
to suit itself to the several distances. The accommodation is at
first gross in both cases ; but is perfected afterwards from the
view of pleasure and convenience, by means of the frequent
recurrency of the actions. See Prop. XXII. Cor. I.
We seem also to have a voluntary power of preparing the ear
previously for very strong, or very weak sounds, which we expect
to hear, just as it was before observed of the eye, that we can
suit it previously to see at an expected distance. The generation
of these powers is the same as that of the other voluntary ones.
SECT. VI.
THE DESIRES OF THE SEXES TOWARDS EACH OTHER.
Prop. LXXIII.—To examine how far the Desires of the Sexes -
towards each other are of a factitious Nature, and deducible
from the Theory of these Papers.
Here we are to observe, first, that when a general pleasurable
state is introduced into the body, either by direct impressions, or
by associated influences, the organs of generation must sympathize
with this general state, for the same reasons as the other parts do.
They must therefore be affected with vibrations in their nerves,
which rise above indifference into the limits of pleasure from
youth, health, grateful aliment, the pleasures of imagination,
ambition, and sympathy, or any other cause, which diffuses grate
ful vibrations over the whole system.
Secondly, As these organs are endued with a greater degree of
sensibility than the other parts, from their make, and the peculiar
structure and disposition of their nerves, whatever these be, we
may expect, that they should be more affected by these general
pleasurable states of the nervous system than the other parts.
SEXES TOWARDS EACH OTHER. 151
Thirdly, The distention of the cells of the vesiculoB seminales,
and of the sinuses of the uterus, which take place about the time
of puberty, must make these organs more particularly irritable
then. It may perhaps be, that the acrimony of the urine and
fccces, which make vivid impressions on the neighbouring parts,
have also a share in increasing the irritability of the organs of
generation.
Fourthly, Young persons hear and read numberless things, in
this degenerate and corrupt state of human life, which carry
nervous influences of the pleasurable kind (be they vibrations, or
any other species of motion) to the organs of generation. This
will be better understood, if the reader please to recollect what
was delivered above concerning the methods by which we learn
to distinguish the sensations of the parts external and internal
from each other. For it will be easy to see, that when we are
once arrived at this power, the associated circumstances of any
sensations, such as the language that relates to them, will recall
the ideas of these sensations.
Fifthly, The particular shame, which regards the organs of
generation, may, when considered as an associated circumstance,
like other pains, be so far diminished as to fall within the limits
of pleasure, and add considerably to the sum total.
Sixthly, The sources here pointed out seem sufficient to account
for the general desires, which are observable in young persons;
and which, when not allowed and indulged, may be considered as
within the confines of virtue.
Seventhly, It is usual for these desires, after some time, to fix
upon a particular object, on account of the apprehended beauty
of the person, or perfection of the mind, also from mutual obliga
tions, or marks of affection, from more frequent intercourses, &c.
after which these desires suggest, and are suggested by, the idea
of the beloved person, and all its associates, reciprocally and in
definitely, so as in some cases to engross the whole fancy and
mind. However, this particular attachment, when under proper
restrictions and regulations, is not only within the confines of
virtue, but often the parent of the most disinterested, and pure,
and exalted kinds of it.
Eighthly, When these desires are gratified, the idea of the
beloved person, and its associates, must now be associated with
the state of neutrality and indifference, that succeeds after grati
fication. Whence it appears, that that part of the affection
towards the beloved person, which arises from gross animal
causes, cannot remain long at its height, and may fall very fast.
However, if the other sources of affection grow stronger, the
sum total may continue the same, or even increase.
Ninthly, When impure desires are allowed, indulged, and
heightened voluntarily, it is evident from the doctrine of associa
tion, that they will draw to themselves all the other pleasures of
our nature, and even, by adhering to many neutral circumstances,
152 DESIRES OF THE SEXES TOWARDS EACH OTHER.
convert them into incentives and temptations. So that all the
desires, designs, and ideas of such persons are tainted with lust.
However, the diseases and sufferings, bodily and mental, which
this vice brings upon men, do, after some time, often check the
exorbitancy of it, still in the way of association. But impure
desires subsist, like vicious ones of other kinds, long after the
pains outweigh the pleasures, inasmuch as they must be supposed
not to begin to decline till the pains apprehended to arise from
them, and thus associated with them, become equal to the
pleasures.
Tenthly, It appears from the course of reasoning here used,
that impure and vicious desires, indulged and heightened volun
tarily, can by no means consist with a particular attachment and
confinement ; also that they must not only end frequently in
indifference, but even in hatred and abhorrence. For the proper
mental sources of affection are not only wanting in these cases,
but many displeasing and odious qualities and dispositions of
mind must offer themselves to view by degrees.
Eleventhly, As the desires and pleasures of this kind are thus
increased by associated influences from other parts of our natures,
so they are reflected back by innumerable associated methods,
direct and indirect, upon the various incidents and events of life,
so as to affect in secondary ways even those who have never
experienced the gross corporeal gratification. And, notwith
standing the great and public mischiefs, which arise from the
ungovernable desires of the vicious, there is great reason, even
from this theory, to apprehend, that if this source of the bene
volent affections was cut off, all other circumstances remaining
the same, mankind would become much more selfish and mali
cious, much more wicked and miserable, upon the whole, than
they now are. *
Twelfthly, I have hitherto chiefly considered how far the pre
sent subject is agreeable to the doctrine of association; but if
physicians and anatomists will compare the circumstances of the
sensations and motions of these organs with the general theory
delivered in the first chapter, they may see considerable evidences
for sensory vibrations, for their running along membranes, and
affecting the neighbouring muscles in a particular manner: they
may see also, that muscular contractions, which are nearly
automatic at first, become afterwards subject to the, influence
of ideas.
Thirteenthly, The theory here proposed for explaining the
nature and growth of these desires shews in every step, how
watchful every person, who desires true chastity and purity of
heart, ought to be over his thoughts, his discourses, his studies,
and his intercourses with the world in general, and with the
other sex in particular. There is no security but in flight, in
turning our minds from all the associated circumstances, and
begetting a new train of thoughts and desires, by an honest,
MOTIONS OF THE HEART. 153
virtuous, religious attention to the duty of the time and place.
To which must be added great abstinence in diet, and bodily
labour, if required. ,
SECT. VII.
OF OTHER MOTIONS, AUTOMATIC AND VOLUNTARY, NOT CONSI
DERED IN THE FOREGOING SECTIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
Prop. LXXIV.—To examine how far the Motions of the Heart,
ordinary and extraordinary, are agreeable to the Theory of
these Papers.
Here I observe,
First, that the motion of the heart is constant, more equable
than any other in the body, and cannot be supposed to proceed
from impressions made on the neighbouring parts ; which things
agree well together upon the supposition of the doctrine of
vibrations : for thus it cannot proceed from the first or fourth
source of motory vibrations ; and if it proceed from the second
and third, it ought to be constant, and nearly equable.
Secondly, We are not to inquire, how the heart is first put
into motion in the foetus, but only how its ordinary motions may
be continued, by means of vibrations descending from the brain,
after they are once begun.
Now, for this purpose, let us suppose, that the auricles, with
the beginnings of the pulmonary artery and aorta, have finished
their contractions ; and that the ventricles and coronary vessels
are full. It follows, that the ventricles will now be excited to
contraction by three causes; viz. by the vibrations which have
continued to descend freely into their fibres ever since their last
contraction was finished, by their distention from fulness, and
by the motion and impulse of the blood in the coronary vessels :
but from the moment that the ventricles begin to contract, the
auricles and arteries will begin to fill, and will be fullest at the
instant when their contraction is finished. The auricles and
arteries must therefore begin to contract at this instant, from
descending vibrations and distention, and the ventricles to be
relaxed and filled, the vibrations in their fibres being checked by
their past contraction. Let these actions be completed, and the
heart will be in the circumstances first supposed; i.e. the ven
tricles will be ready for a fresh contraction, and so on alternately,
as long as life continues.
Thirdly, The vibrations which keep up the heart's motion, are
nearly allied to those arising from heat ; for the second source of
154 THE MOTIONS OF THE HEART.
motory vibrations is the residue of all the vibrations excited in
the various parts of the body ; and the third arises chiefly from
the heat of the blood. We may expect therefore, that the heart
should contract either more frequently, or more strongly, or both,
when the body is heated. And thus it is, as may appear from
observations upon the pulse in fevers, in sleep, after eating, in
pains or distempers attended with an increase of heat, &c. in
which the motion of the blood is increased ; whereas in nervous
pains attended with coldness of the extremities, the pulse is low
and slow.
Fourthly, In the declension of fevers the pulse is quick and
feeble. It is feeble, because the whole body is so ; and quick,
partly from the new habit superinduced by the heat in the
beginning of the fever; partly, because in fevers the heart is
always kept nearly full, i. e. nearly at such a degree of distention
as incites it to contraction, the principal causes of which are the
weakness and inactivity of the body : hence in general the pulse
is quick and feeble in persons of relaxed habits ; the contrary in
strong ones.
Fifthly, The pulse is quick in young and small animals ; slow-
in old and large ones. For this, various reasons may be assigned ;
as first, that if the velocity wherewith the sides of the heart
move towards each other be the same, the contraction must be
sooner accomplished in small hearts than in large ones. Secondly,
that the fibres in young animals are irritable, and soon excited to
contraction, by distention, &c. Thirdly, that the contraction is
performed slowly in old animals ; and fourthly, that short fibres
are perhaps sooner excited to contraction than long ones, it
being necessary perhaps, that the vibrations should be reverbe
rated from each end of the fibres, for many successions, before
they can rise to a certain pitch. It agrees with this, that re
ciprocal motions are more frequent in general, and cceteris
manentibus, as the animal is less ; that the limbs have both long
and short flexors and extensors, the first for great degrees of
motion, the last for making a quick beginning; that the capsular
ligaments of the joints have short muscular fibres inserted into
them, in order to keep them from being pinched between the
bones in the motions of the joints, as Winslow has observed;
which they could not do, had not their contraction the start of
the contractions which move the joint ; and lastly, that the fibres
which compose the heart, are all of equal lengths, according to
Dr. Stewart's analysis of them. See Phil. Trans. N°. 460.
Sixthly, The heart may move incessantly without fatigue, if
we only suppose the recruits to be sufficient, and the degree of
motion to be within due limits. And it may be, that in labour
ing men the muscles of the limbs are as much exerted upon the
whole as the heart. The warmth in which the heart is kept,
and its receiving nerves from the eighth pair and intercostal,
which seem to be particularly exempted from venal compression,
THE MOTIONS OF THE HEART. 155
deserve notice here: but the constant motion of the blood is
principally to be considered, being the cause as well as the effect
of the constant motion of the heart.
Seventhly, Since lying down prevents or alleviates the fainting
which sometimes happens during bleeding, one may suppose that
this fainting, and the consequent abatement or cessation of the
motion of the heart arise, because a quantity of blood, sufficient
to keep up the vibrations in the brain, could not ascend thither
in an erect posture.
Eighthly, Sudden and yolent pains, such as those from
wounds, increase the motions of the heart. This may be accounted
for from the violent vibrations which ascend to the brain, and
are thence propagated to the heart. But may not vibrations
ascend also directly from the wounded part, along the course of
the arteries and veins, to the heart 1
Ninthly, All the passions of the mind increase the motion of
the heart, as might be expected : but melancholy, when it makes
men inactive, and uninfluenced by the impressions of objects, has
a contrary effect, which is equally suitable to the foregoing
theory.
Tenthly, In mortifications, also in the languid state that suc
ceeds acute distempers, &c. the pulse sometimes intermits, sup
pose once in 5, 10, 20, &c. times, the interval being about
double, and the strength of the pulse which succeeds the inter
mission about double also. Here the force of the heart seems
to languish, and the time of contraction of the ventricle to be
protracted, till a second contraction of the auricle intervenes,
and protracts the ventricle's contraction still farther, viz. to
nearly twice the interval. The heart must therefore be sur
charged, and contracting stronger from this respite, must send,
as it were, a double quantity of blood into the aorta, i. e. make
the pulse that succeeds much stronger. And this intermission
may return at greater or less intervals, according to the circum
stances, while this weakness of the heart continues : it may also
remain, when once established, from habit, or association.
This intermission may perhaps rather be accounted for thus :
in languid states the blood is accumulated in the beginning of
the aorta. The aorta will not therefore receive much blood
from the heart, though it does contract ; i. e. no pulse will be
felt ; i. e. the interval will be double : the succeeding pulse will
be strong, from the now greater emptiness of the aorta, and
fulness of the heart : the intermission will also return when the
accumulation in the aorta does. It agrees with this account, that
these intermissions are usually felt in the region of the heart by
the patients. May not intermissions arise from both causes in
different circumstances ?
Eleventhly, When the pulse flutters from flatulencies and
spasms in the stomach and bowels, it appears that a sudden stop
is put to the blood of the aorta, which by surcharging the left
THE ACTION OF RESPIRATION.
ventricle at once, makes it contract at a different time from the
right, and not at a due interval from the contraction of the
auricles : for this fluttering of the pulse attacks generally in an
instant, and often upon a fruitless effort to expel wind from the
stomach. When the contractions of the ventricles are once
become asynchronous and inharmonious to those of the auricles,
it may require some time to rectify this, and especially while
there is an impediment to the blood's motion through the aorta.
This disorder may likewise continue through habit and associa
tion, and recur perpetually from Jess and less causes. The
intermission of the pulse, considered in the two preceding
paragraphs, is often caused by flatulencies, as well as the flutter
ing of it mentioned in this.
Twelfthly, The motions of the heart remain in their original
automatic state more than any other in the body ; the reasons of
which are, that the common motions are equally associated with
every thing, i. e. peculiarly so with nothing ; and that very few
impressions make changes in the motions of the heart so great
and sudden, as to subject it to the ideas of these impressions :
however, as great and sudden changes are sometimes brought oti
by pain, fear, surprise, joy, &c. we seem to have a semi-voluntary
pow»r to alter the motion of the heart immediately, by intro
ducing strong ideas, our power of introducing these being semi-
voluntary : nay, it may be possible for persons in very particular
circumstances to acquire still greater degrees of power over the
motion of the heart.
Prop. LXXV.—To examine how far the Action of Respiration,
ordinary and extraordinary, also the particular Actions of
Sighing, Coughing, Laughter, Sobbing, and shedding Tears,
from Grief, are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
The first observation to be made here, is, that common respi
ration is performed very feebly in new-born children. A slight
disposition therefore to alternate action in the diaphragm, and
other muscles of respiration, may be sufficient to account for
that degree of respiration which takes place in new-born children.
It is natural to expect, that respiration in them should be feeble,
since they must lean in this, as well as in other things, to their
preceding state in utero.
Secondly, That the vigorous impressions from the cold air, the
hands of the midwife, &c. may excite the strong respiration and
crying which take place upon birth ordinarily, appears from the
methods used to make the new-born child respire freely, where
it fails to do this in extraordinary cases ; such as applying
volatiles to the nose, pouring wine into the mouth, swinging it
to and fro, &c. All these methods excite the muscles to con
traction, by making strong impressions on the neighbouring
sensory nerves. They are also very agreeable to the notion of
vibrations.
THE ACTION OF RESPIRATION. 157
Thirdly, If we suppose the diaphragm to have finished its
contraction, and consequently the thorax to be raised, and the
abdomen to be distended, expiration must succeed, for three
reasons ; viz. because the contraction of the diaphragm has
checked the vibrations in its fibres, and therefore has disposed
them to relaxation ; because the elasticity of the cartilages of the
ribs tends to restore the thorax to a more depressed state ; and
because the fibres of the abdominal muscles are excited to
vibrations and contraction by their distention. Suppose now
expiration to be completed, and the vibrations, which descend
into the diaphragm, from the second and third source of motory
vibrations, will renew its contraction, and consequently the
action of inspiration ; and so on alternately.
Fourthly, The diaphragm is the more disposed to receive vivid
vibrations in its fibres, from its nearness to the heart, and the
warmth in which it is always kept. It deserves notice here, that
the diaphragm receives its nerves from the cervical pairs, not
from the eighth pair and intercostal, as the neighbouring parts,
the heart, stomach, &c. do. Perhaps it was requisite, that it
should derive its nerves from the spinal marrow, since the other
muscles of respiration do. The nerves of the diaphragm are
elongated during its contraction, the contrary to which happens
in the nerves of other muscles. They are also kept in constant
motion by the constant motion of the thorax, through which
they pass ; and this perhaps may contribute to the perpetual
activity of the diaphragm.
Fifthly, The intercostal muscles are disposed to alternate con
tractions for the same reasons as the diaphragm, though these
reasons do not hold in the same degree ; however, since the
contraction of the diaphragm, and consequent distention of the
abdomen, must raise the thorax, the contraction of the inter
costal muscles must from the first be synchronous to that of the
diaphragm : and association will soon generate a permanent dis
position to this synchronism. It follows according to this theory
from the vicinity of the internal intercostal muscles to the
external ones, that they ought to have the same action. And
the same conclusion appears to result from anatomical con
siderations.
Sixthly, It may however be supposed, that the diaphragm
and intercostal muscles are, as it were, fatigued by constant
action ; and that they incline to sympathize in inactivity with
the rest of the muscles, especially during sleep. But then the
accumulation of blood in the lungs, which the intermission of
respiration must occasion, after it has once had a free passage
through the lungs by means of respiration, will produce so much
uneasiness, i. e. such vigorous vibrations, in the lungs, and par
ticularly in their external membrane, which is continuous to the
pleura, as will renew respiration.
It is agreeable to this, that if very young children sleep upon
158 THE ACTION OF RESPIRATION.
a bed, they often fall into a great uneasiness from the stoppage
of respiration, and recover from it by crying ; and that rocking,
or any other gentle motion, will prevent this. The last circum
stance is particularly favourable to the notion of vibrations.
The night-mare in adults appears to be a disorder of the same
kind. A full supper, and lying upon the back, dispose to it, by
hindering the free motion of the diaphragm. Motion, and
especially when attended with quick respiration, laughter, &c.
prevent it, by giving activity to the diaphragm. Shaking the
person affected, calling to him, &c. rouse from it, by exciting
vibrations. The uneasiness from accumulated blood does the
same thing at last.
It is easy to see, that if a like disposition to inaction should
arise in the hearts of new-born children, or adults, the motion
and distending force of the venal blood must renew their action
for similar reasons. It is remarkably coincident with this, that
forcing the venal blood upon the heart has in some cases been
found to renew its action even after death.
Seventhly, The actions of sighing, crying, coughing, sneezing,
&c. by recurring frequently, and making all the muscles, which
can in any degree contribute to respiration, unite therein, en
large the range of respiration by degrees, and make this action
be performed with greater strength perpetually in the young
child. The increase of strength in the whole muscular system
must however be considered likewise.
Eighthly, The same actions have also a great share in begetting
voluntary respiration. For more muscles are put into action in
voluntary respiration, than in that which is ordinary.
Ninthly, It is agreeable to the foregoing theory, and to parallel
observations on the heart, that respiration should be stronger in
fevers, in sleep, and in general wherever the heat of the blood is
increased, than in ordinary cases. For respiration depends chiefly
on the second and third sources of motory vibrations. By this
means the force of the respirations answers in a general way, as
it ought to do, to the force with which the blood is moved, or to
the force of the heart.
I now come to the particular consideration of the actions of
sighing, coughing, laughter, and sobbing, and shedding tears
from grief.
Sighing is an extraordinary contraction of the diaphragm. It
arises not only from all causes, which accumulate the blood in
the lungs, and thus excite the diaphragm to an extraordinary
contraction ; but also from such compressions of the abdomen as
hinder the free motion of the diaphragm for a time. For thus a
disposition to vibrate is accumulated in the fibres of the dia
phragm. It is however to be observed, that this compression of
the abdomen does also accumulate blood in the lungs. The
abdomen seems to be compressed in a state of sorrow, attention,
&c. The frequent recurrency of sighing makes it voluntary early
THE ACTION OF RESPIRATION. 159
in youth. But it is not performed voluntarily with the same
force, as when from a pressing uneasiness in the lungs.
Coughing arises from an uneasy sensation in the wind-pipe
fixing in the point of the epiglottis, as the sensation which causes
sneezing does in the tip of the nose. This ought also to become
voluntary, and to be weaker when voluntary, than when excited
by a strong irritation.
Hawking is a voluntary action, derived from coughing, as
blowing the nose is from sneezing. Spitting is nearly related to
these actions. It tallies perfectly with the foregoing theory,
that children cannot hawk, spit, or blow the nose, for some
years.
Laughter is a nascent cry, recurring again and again, as has
been observed before, Prop. XXVI. By degrees it puts on a
certain type, and recurs again and again according to that type,
just as other actions. And it is excited in young children not
only by the sensation of tickling, which lies, as it were, between
pleasure and pain, but by the apprehension of this, or any other
apprehension sufficiently moderate, by every surprise, and every
mental emotion that lies between pleasure and pain, and by all
the associates of these, as particularly by seeing others laugh.
And thus children laugh more and more, and get a power of per
forming the action of laughter at pleasure, though with less force
than when it is excited by its proper cause in full vigour.
It is remarkable, that young brute creatures, in their sportings
with each other, make such noises, as bear the same analogy to
their violent cries, which laughter in us bears to crying from pain.
Bodily pain is attended with violent and irregular respiration
on account of the violent and irregular vibrations, which, in this
case, first ascend to the brain, and then descend into the dia
phragm. Hence mental pain, which is the offspring of bodily
pain, is attended also with violent and irregular respiration, i. e.
with sobbing. The crying which used to attend bodily pain in
childhood is often checked in the mental pains of adults by fear,
shame, &c. i. e. by a voluntary or semi-voluntary power; and
this seems to make the respiration so much the more irregular.
It is more difficult to account for the shedding tears from grief;
for very young children are not apt to shed tears when they cry.
It seems to me, that so great and general a disorder in the brain,
as that which takes place in violent grief, must affect the fifth
pair of nerves in a particular manner, so as to influence the
lachrymal glands both directly, and also indirectly, viz. by the
strong convulsions produced in the muscles of the eyes and face.
The membranes of the fauces and nose are likewise affected in
grief, as is evident from the sensations in the fauces, and tip of
the nose ; and thus vibrations may run to the lachrymal glands
through the ductus ad nasum, and lachrymal points, as ob
served before in irritations from sternutatories, &c. Young chil
dren may not shed tears freely, because very great and general
100 CONVULSIVE MOTIONS.
disorders of the brain, and its influence over the fifth pair of
nerves, do not take place till intellectual aggregates are formed.
And the like reason may hold in respect of brutes.
The actions of sobbing and weeping are therefore, in part,
deducible from association ; i. e. are not merely automatic, in the
first sense of that word. Agreeably to which, they are in certain
cases manifestly subject to the voluntary power. Thus, some
persons can, by introducing imaginary scenes of compassion and
sorrow, so far agitate the brain, as to bring on the actions of
sobbing and weeping, though not in the same degree, as when
they arise from a strong real mental cause. They may likewise
be caught by infection, from others, as laughter, and most of our
other semi-voluntary and voluntary actions, are ; which is another
argument of their dependence on association.
Prop. LXXVI.—To examine how far convulsive Motions of
various Kinds, and the Actions of Yawning and Stretching in
particular, are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
Since strong vibrations must, according to the foregoing theory,
descend at once into the whole muscular system in general con
vulsions, we must seek for a cause of sufficient extent for this
purpose. Now there seem to be three kinds of vibrations, which
may answer this condition: first, violent vibrations in the brain.
Secondly, violent ones at the skin, suddenly checked. Thirdly,
violent ones in the bowels or uterus, suddenly checked also, and
thence running instantaneously over the whole nervous system
by means of the intercostal, or, as Winslow justly calls it, the
great sympathetic nerve.
Convulsions from compressions and inflammations of the brain,
and most of those which are termed epileptic, seem to be of the
first kind. In epilepsies the irregular vibrations, excited in the
medullary substance of the brain, are perhaps so violent, as first
to make the small particles attract each other, and thus, by
checking themselves, to extinguish all sense and motion. How
ever, they may return after a short time, and descend into the
whole muscular system.
The stretchings and yawnings which happen in ague-fits, in
going to sleep and waking, the startings to which some persons
are subject in going to sleep, and the convulsive tremors and
rigidity in ague-fits, seem to be of a second kind, or to arise from
a sudden check of vibrations at the skin. For in agues the sur
face is chilled, as it is also by the least motions in going to sleep,
or waking. Agreeably to this, it may be observed, that, upon
stepping into a cold bed, one is disposed to general convulsions,
like those of stretching. Yawning may also depend in part upon
a like check of violent vibrations in the mouth and fauces ; for it
is a motion excited in the neighbourhood, and is observed to
accompany sickness.
MOTIONS MOST PERFECTLY VOLUNTARY. 161
The startings and convulsions which happen to children from
gripes, to women from disorders of the uterus, and to all persons
in general from certain poisons, seem to be of the third kind, or
to arise from vigorous vibrations in the abdomen, suddenly checked,
and running into the whole system by means of the intercostal
nerve.
It has been observed already, that convulsive motions are apt
to return from less and less causes perpetually, on account of the
vestiges which they leave of themselves, and the power of asso
ciated circumstances. I will add here, that seeing a person in
convulsions is apt to occasion them in such as are of nervous and
irritable frames ; and that there is reason to believe, that some
persons, who have been enthusiasts or impostors, have been able
to throw themselves into convulsions by a semi-voluntary power,
and particularly, as it seems, by introducing strong ideas, and
internal feelings.
It is commonly observed, that yawning is apt to infect a whole
company, after one person in it has set the example ; which is a
manifest instance of the influence of association over motions
originally automatic.
Prop. LXXVII.—To examine how far the Motions, that are
most perfectly voluntary, such as those of Walking, Handling,
and Speaking, with the voluntary Power of suspending them,
and their being formed according to Patterns set by those with
whom we converse, are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
It was necessary to deliver many things which properly relate
to this proposition under the twenty-first, in order to make the
derivation of voluntary motion from automatic, by means of
association, in some measure intelligible to the reader. I will
now resume the subject, and add what I am able for the full
explication and establishment of the theory proposed.
Walking is the most simple of the three kinds of voluntary
motion here mentioned, being common to the brute creation with
man, whereas handling and speaking are, in a manner, peculiar to
him. His superiority in this respect, when compared with the
superiority of his mental faculties, agrees well with the hypo
thesis here advanced concerning handling and speaking, viz. their
dependence on ideas, and the power of association.
The new-born child is unable to walk on account of the want
of strength to support his body, as well as of complex and de
complex motory vibratiuncles, generated by association, and
depending upon sensations and ideas by association also. As he
gets strength, he advances likewise in the number and variety of
compound motions of the limbs, their species being determined
by. the nature of the articulations, the position of the muscles,
the automatic motions excited by friction, accidental flexures
and extensions made by the nurse, &c. When he is tolerably
M
THE MOTIONS THAT ARE
perfect in these rudiments of walking, the view of a favourite
plaything will excite various motions in the limbs ; and thus if
he be set upon his legs, and his body carried forward by the
nurse, an imperfect attempt to walk follows of course. It is
made more perfect gradually by his improvements in the rudi
ments, by the nurse's moving his legs alternately in the proper
manner, by his desire of going up to persons, playthings, &c.
and thence repeating the process which has succeeded (for
he makes innumerable trials, both successful and unsuccess
ful ;) and by his seeing others walk, and endeavouring to imitate
them.
It deserves notice here, that in the limbs, where the motions
are most perfectly voluntary, all the muscles have antagonists,
and often such as are of nearly equal strength with themselves ;
also, that the muscles of the limbs are, not much influenced
at first by common impressions made on the skin, and scarce at
all when the child is so far advanced as to get a voluntary power
over them. For these things facilitate the generation of the
voluntary power, by making the muscles of the limbs chiefly
dependent on the vibrations which descend from the brain, and
also disposing them to act from a small balance in favour of this
or that set of antagonists.
When the child can walk up to an object that he desires to
walk up to, the action may be termed voluntary, i. e. the use of
language will then justify this appellation. But it appears from
the reasoning here used, that this kind and degree of voluntary
power over his motions is generated by proper combinations and
associations of the automatic motions, agreeably to the corolla
ries of the twentieth proposition. Voluntary powers may there
fore result from association, as is asserted in these papers.
When he is arrived at such a perfection in walking, as to walk
readily upon being desired by another person, the action is
esteemed still more voluntary. One reason of which is, that
the child, in some cases, does not walk when desired, whilst yet
the circumstances are apparently the same as when he does.
For here the unapparent cause of walking, or not walking, is
will. However, it follows from this theory, that all this is still
owing to association, or to something equally suitable to the
foregoing theory ; e. g. to the then present strength or weakness
of the association of the words of the command with the action
of walking, to its proceeding from this or that person, in this or
that manner, to the child's being in an active or inactive state,
attentive or inattentive, disposed by other circumstances to
move as directed, or to move in a different way, &c. a careful
observation of the fact will always shew, as far as is rea
sonably to be expected in so nice a matter, that when children
do different things, the real circumstances, natural or asso
ciated, are proportionably different, and that the state of
mind called will depends upon this difference. This degree of
MOST PERFECTLY VOLUNTARY. 163
voluntary power is therefore, in like manner, of an acquired
nature.
Suppose an adult to walk in order to shew his perfectly
voluntary power ; still his selecting this instance is owing to one
association, and his performing the action to another, viz. to the
introduction of the audible idea of the word, the visible one of
the action, &c.
Walking passes into the secondarily automatic state more
perfectly perhaps than any other action ; for adults seldom exert
any degree of volition here, sufficient to affect the power of con
sciousness or memory for the least perceptible moment of time.
Now this transition of walking, from its voluntary to its secondarily
automatic state, must be acknowledged by all to proceed merely
from association. And it seems to follow by parity of reason,
that the transition of primarily automatic actions into voluntary
ones, may be merely from association also, since it is evident,
that association has at least a very great and extensive influence
there.
The complex artificial motions of the lower limbs, used in the
several kinds of dancing, bear nearly the same relation to the
common motions used in walking forwards, backwards, upwards,
downwards, and sideways, as these common motions do to the
simple rudiments above mentioned, such as the flexion and
extension of the ancle or knee. Since therefore the voluntary
and secondarily automatic power of dancing are plainly the
result of association, why may we not suppose the same of the
common motions in walking, both in their voluntary and
secondarily automatic state ? In learning to dance, the scholar
desires to look at his feet and legs, in order to judge by seeing
when they are in a proper position. By degrees he learns to
judge of this by feeling ; but the visible idea left partly by the
view of his master's motions, partly by that of his own, seems to
be the chief associated circumstance, that introduces the proper
motions. By farther degrees these are connected with each
other, with the music, and with other more and more remote
circumstances.
I have already shewn in what manner children learn the
voluntary and secondarily automatic power of grasping. How
they learn the various complex motions, by which they feed and
dress themselves, &c. also how children and adults learn to write,
to practise manual arts, &c. and in what senses and degrees all
these actions are voluntary, and secondarily automatic, and yet
still remain as purely mechanical as the primarily automatic
actions are, may now be understood from what has been already
delivered under this proposition. The method of playing upon
musical instruments has also been explained, so as to concur in
establishing the same conclusions.
In like manner, the account given of the action of speaking
might now be completed, and extended to all the modes of it,
m 2
164 THE MOTIONS THAT ARE
vulgar and artificial ; and to singing, with its modes. I will add
a few words concerning stammering and the loss of speech by
palsies.
Stammering seems generally to arise from fear, eagerness, or
some violent passion, which prevents the child's articulating
rightly, by the confusion which it makes in the vibrations that
descend into the muscular system ; so that, finding himself
wrong, he attempts again and again, till he hits upon the true
sound. It does not begin therefore in general, till children are
of an age to distinguish right from wrong in respect of pronun
ciation, and to articulate with tolerable propriety. A nervous
disorder of the muscles of speech may have a like effect. When
the trick of stammering has once begun to take place in a few
words, it will extend itself to more and more from very slight
resemblances, and particularly to all the first words of sentences,
because there the organs pass in an instant from inactivity to
action ; whereas the subsequent parts of words and sentences
may follow the foregoing from association; just as, in repeating
memoriter, one is most apt to hesitate at the first word in each
sentence.
A defect of memory from passion, natural weakness, &c. so
that the proper word does not occur readily, occasions stammer
ing also. And, like all other modes of speaking, it is caught, in
some cases, by imitation.
A palsy of the organs of speech may be occasioned in the
same manner as any other palsy ; and yet the muscles of the
lips, cheeks, tongue, and fauces, may still continue to perform
the actions of mastication and deglutition sufficiently well,
because these actions are simpler than that of speech, and are
also excited by sensations, which have an original influence over
them.
A defect of memory may also destroy the power of speaking,
in great measure, though the organs be not much affected in a
paralytica! way. Thus a person who plays well upon a harp
sichord, may by some years' disuse become unable to play at all,
though the muscles of his hands be in a perfect state, merely
because his memory, and the associations of the motions of his
fingers, with the sight of notes, with the ideas of sounds, or with
one another, are obliterated by distance of time, and disuse.
The suspension of an action may be performed two ways, as
before-mentioned ; viz. either by putting the muscles concerned
in it into a languid inactive state, or by making the antagonists
act with vigour. In the first case, the whole limb is put into a
state of relaxation, and extreme flexibility ; in the last, into a
state of rigidity. The voluntary power of the first kind is
obtained by associations with the languor that arises from fatigue,
heat, sleepiness, &c. that of the last from the general tension of
the muscles, which happens in pain, and violent emotions of
mind. Children improve in both these kinds of voluntary power
MOST PERFECTLY VOLUNTARY. 165
by repeated trials, as occasion requires, by imitation, desire, &c.
But they are both difficult for some time. Thus we may observe,
that children cannot let their heads or eyelids fall from their
mere weight, nor stop themselves in running or striking, till a
considerable time after they can raise the head, or bend it, open
the eyes, or shut them, run or strike, by a voluntary power.
Imitation is a great source of the voluntary power, and makes
all the several modes of walking, handling, and speaking, con
formable to those of the age and nation in which a person lives
in general, and to those of the persons with whom he converses
in particular. Besides the two sources already mentioned,
Prop. XXI., viz. the sight of the child's own actions, and the
sound of his own words, it has many others. Some of these are
the resemblance which children observe between their own
bodies, with all the functions of them, and those of others ; the
pleasures which they experience in and by means of all motions,
*. e. imitations ; the directions and encouragements given to them
upon this head ; the high opinions which they form of the power
and happiness of adults; and their consequent desire to resemble
them in these, and in all their associates. Imitation begins in
the several kinds of voluntary actions about the same time, and
increases not only by the sources alleged, but also by the mutual
influences of every instance of it over every other, so that the
velocity of its growth is greatly accelerated for some time. It is
of the highest use to children in their attainment of accomplish
ments, bodily and mental. And thus every thing, to which
mankind have a natural tendency, is learnt much sooner in
society, than the mere natural tendency would beget it; and
many things are learnt so early, and fixed so deeply, as to appear
parts of our nature, though they be mere derivatives and acqui
sitions.
It is remarkable that apes, whose bodies resemble the human
body more than those of any other brute creature, and whose
intellects also approach nearer to ours, which last circumstance
may, I suppose, have some connexion with the first, should
likewise resemble us so much in the faculty of imitation. Their
aptness in handling is plainly the result of the shape and make
of their fore legs, and their intellects together, as in us. Their
peculiar chattering may perhaps be some attempt towards speech,
to which they cannot attain, partly from the defect in the organs,
partly, and that chiefly,, from the narrowness of their memories,
apprehensions, and associations ; for they seem not to understand
words to any considerable degree. Or may not their ehattering
be an imitation of laughter ?
Parrots appear to have far less intellect than apes, but a more
distinguishing ear, and like other birds, a much greater command
of the muscles of the throat. Their talk seems to be almost
devoid of all proper connexion with ideas. However, in respect
of sounds, they imitate as much as children, or as apes in
166 THE RELATION OF THIS THEORY
respect of other actions. And indeed the talk of children, by
out-running their understandings in many things, very much
resembles that of parrots.
As we express our inward sentiments by words, so we do also
by gestures, and particularly by the muscles of the face. Here,
again, association and imitation display themselves. This dumb
show prevails more in the hotter climates, where the passions are
more impetuous, than in these northern ones. It is also proba
ble, that the narrowness and imperfection of the ancient lan
guages made it more necessary and prevalent in ancient times.
Deaf persons have an extraordinary aptness both in learning and
decyphering this, as might well be expected. The imitation of
manners and characters by dumb show is often more striking
than any verbal description of them.
SECT. VIII.
THE RELATION WHICH THE FOREGOING THEORY BEARS TO THE
ART OF PHYSIC.
Prop. LXXVIII.—The Art of Physic affords many proper
Tests of the Doctrines of Vibrations and Association ; and
may receive considerable Improvement from them, if they be
true.
This proposition may appear from several hints to that pur
pose, which have been already given. But it will be more fully
manifest, if I give a short view of the data and qucesita in the
art of physic.
Now the general problem, which comprehends the whole
art, is,
Having the Symptoms given, tofind the Remedy.
This problem may be solved in some cases empirically and
directly by the histories of distempers, and of their cures. But
then there are other cases, and those not a few, to which the
learning and experience of the most able physicians either cannot
find histories sufficiently similar, or none where the event was
successful. Hence it is necessary to attempt the solution of the
general problem rationally and indirectly, by dividing it into the
two following less comprehensive and consequently more manage
able problems ; viz.
First, Having the symptoms given, to find the deviation of the
bodyfrom its natural state.
Secondly, Having this deviation given, tofind the remedy.
TO THE ART OF PHYSIC. 167
It is proper also to invert these two problems, and to inquire,
First, Having the deviation given, what the symptoms must be.
Secondly, Having the manner of operation of a successful
remedy given, what the deviation must be.
I here use the words symptoms, deviation, and remedy, in the
most general sense possible, for the sake of brevity.
Now it is very evident, that the doctrine of vibrations, or some
other better doctrine, which teaches the law of action of the
nervous system, has a close connexion with all these last four
problems. For the nerves enter every part, as well as the
blood-vessels ; and the brain has as great a share in all the
natural functions of the parts, and its disorders, in all their
disorders, as the heart, and its disorders, can have ; and much
more than any other part, besides the heart.
Farther, if the doctrine of association be the necessary conse
quence of the doctrine of vibrations, in any such manner as I
have proposed above, Prop. IX. and XI. it must have a most
intimate connexion with the theory of nervous distempers, and
some with that of others, on account of the just-mentioned
dependence of all the parts on the brain. Or, if we separate
these doctrines, still, if that of association be true, of which I
suppose there is no doubt, it cannot but be of great use for
explaining those distempers in which the mind is affected.
And it seems to me, that agreeably to this, the distempers of
the head, spasmodic ones, the effects of poisonous bites and
stings, which, as Dr. Mead justly observes, are more exerted
upon the nerves than on the blood, receive much light from the
doctrine of vibrations, and, in return, confirm it ; and that all
the disorders of the memory, fancy, and mind, do the same in
respect of the doctrine of association.
I do not mean to intimate here, that the rational and indirect
solution of the general problem, which comprehends the art of
physic, is preferable to the empirical and direct one, where this
is to be had ; but only, since this cannot be had always, that we
ought to proceed in an explicit and scientifical manner, rather
than in a confused and popular one. For where practice is
silent, physicians must and will have recourse to some theory,
good or bad. And if they do not acquaint themselves with the
real structure and functions of the parts, with the sensible
qualities and operations of medicines, and with the most probable
method of explaining both the symptoms of distempers, and the
operations of medicines, they must fancy something in the place
of these, and reason from such false imaginations, or perhaps
from the mere agreements, oppositions, and secondary ideas, of
words. The history of diseases, and their cures, is the basis of
all ; after this come anatomical examinations of the body, both
in its natural and morbid states ; and last of all, pharmacy*;
these three answering respectively to the general problem, and
the two subordinate ones above-mentioned. And if we reason
168 RELATION OF THE THEORY TO THE ART OF PHYSIC.
at all upon the functions and disorders of the parts, and the
effects of medicines upon the body, so important an organ as the
brain must not be left out entirely.
It may not be amiss to add here, that as all the natural func
tions tend to the welfare of the body, so there is a remarkable
tendency in all the disorders of the body to rectify themselves.
These two tendencies, taken together, make what is called
nature by physicians; and the several instances of them, with
their limits, dangers, ill consequences, and deviations in particular
cases, deserve the highest attention from physicians, that so they
may neither interrupt a favourable crisis, nor concur with a fatal
one. Stahl and his followers suppose, that these tendencies
arise from a rational agent presiding over the fabric of the body,
and producing effects that are not subject to the laws of
mechanism. But this is gratis dictum ; and the plain traces of
mechanism, which appear in so many instances, natural and
morbid, are highly unfavourable to it. And all the evidences for
the mechanical nature of the body or mind are so many encou
ragements to study them faithfully and diligently, since what is
mechanical may both be understood and remedied.
CHAP. III.
CONTAINING A PARTICULAR APPLICATION OF THE FOREGOING
THEORY TO THE PHENOMENA OF IDEAS, OR OF UNDER
STANDING, AFFECTION, MEMORY, AND IMAGINATION.
SECT. I.
WORDS, AND THE IDEAS ASSOCIATED WITH THEM.
Prop. LXXIX.— Words and Phrases must excite Ideas in us
by Association, and they excite Ideas in us by no other Means.
Words may be considered in four lights.
First, As impressions made upon the ear.
Secondly, As the actions of the organs of speech.
Thirdly, As impressions made upon the eye by characters.
Fourthly, As the actions of the hand in writing.
We learn the use of them in the order here set down. For
children first get an imperfect knowledge of the meaning of the
words of others ; then learn to speak themselves ; then to read ;
and, lastly, to write.
Now it is evident, that in the first of these ways many sensible
impressions, and internal feelings, are associated with particular
words and phrases, so as to give these the power of raising the
corresponding ideas ; and that the three following ways increase
and improve this power, with some additions to and variations of
the ideas. The second is the reverse of the first, and the fourth
of the third. The first ascertains the ideas belonging to words
and phrases in a gross manner, according to their usage in
common life. The second fixes this, and makes it ready and
accurate ; having the same use here as the solution of the inverse
problem has in other cases in respect of the direct one. The
third has the same effect as the second ; and also extends the
ideas and significations of words and phrases, by new associations;
and particularly by associations with other words, as in defini
tions, descriptions, &c. The advancement of the arts and
170 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
sciences is chiefly carried on by the new significations given to
words in this third way. The fourth by converting the reader
into a writer, helps him to be expert in distinguishing, quick in
recollecting, and faithful in retaining, these new significations of
words, being the inverse of the third method, as just now re
marked. The reader will easily see, that the action of the hand
is not an essential in this fourth method. Composition by
persons born blind has nearly the same effect. I mention it as
being the common attendant upon composition, as having a
considerable use deducible from association, and as making the
analogy between the four methods more conspicuous and com
plete.
This may suffice, for the present, to prove the first part of the
proposition ; vie. that words and phrases must excite ideas in us
by association. The second part, or that they excite ideas in us
by no other means, may appear at the same time, as it may be
found upon reflection and examination, that all the ideas which
any word does excite are deducible from some of the four sources
above-mentioned, most commonly from the first or third.
It may appear also from the instances of the words of unknown
languages, terms of art not yet explained, barbarous words, &c.
of which we either have no ideas, or only such as some fancied
resemblance, or prior association, suggests.
It is highly worthy of remark here, that articulate sounds are
by their variety, number, and ready use, particularly suited to
signify and suggest, by association, both our simple ideas, and
the complex ones formed from them, according to the twelfth
proposition.
Cor. It follows from this proposition, that the arts of logic
and rational grammar depend entirely on the doctrine of associa
tion. For logic, considered as the art of thinking or reasoning,
treats only of such ideas as are annexed to words ; and, as the
art of discoursing, it teaches the proper use of words in a general
way, as grammar does in a more minute and particular one.
Prop. LXXX. — To describe the Manner in which Ideas are
associated with Words, beginning from Childhood.
This may be done by applying the doctrine of association, as
laid down in the first chapter, to words, considered in the four
lights mentioned under the last proposition.
First, then, The association of the names of visible objects,
with the impressions which these objects make upon the eye,
seems to take place more early than any other, and to be effected
in the following manner : the name of the visible object, the
nurse, for instance, is pronounced and repeated by the attendants
to the child, more frequently when his eye is fixed upon the
nurse, than when upon other objects, and much more so than
when upon any particular one. The word nurse is also sounded
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 171
in an emphatical manner, when the child's eye is directed to the
nurse with earnestness and desire. The association therefore of
the sound nurse, with the picture of the nurse upon the retina,
will be far stronger than that with any other visible impression,
and thus overpower all the other accidental associations, which
will also themselves contribute to the same end by opposing one
another. And when the child has gained so much voluntary
power over his motions, as to direct his head and eyes towards
the nurse upon hearing her name, this process will go on with
an accelerated velocity. And thus, at last, the word will excite
the visible idea readily and certainly.
The same association of the picture of the nurse in the eye
with the sound nurse, will, by degrees, overpower all the acci
dental associations of this picture with other words, and be so
firmly cemented at last, that the picture will excite the audible
idea of the word. But this is not to our present purpose. I
mention it here as taking place at the same time with the fore
going process, and contributing to illustrate and confirm it. Both
together afford a complete instance for the tenth and eleventh
propositions, i. e. they shew, that when the impressions A and B
are sufficiently associated, A impressed alone will excite b, B im
pressed alone will excite a.
Secondly, This association of words with visible appearances,
being made under many particular circumstances, must affect the
visible ideas with a like particularity. Thus the nurse's dress,
and the situation of the fire in the child's nursery, make part of
the child's ideas of his nurse and fire. But then as the nurse
often changes her dress, and the child often sees a fire in a diffe
rent place, and surrounded by different visible objects, these
opposite associations must be less strong than the part which is
common to them all; and consequently we may suppose, that
while his idea of that part which is common, and which we may
call essential, continues the same, that of the particularities, cir
cumstances, and adjuncts, varies. For he cannot have any idea,
but with some particularities in the non-essentials.
Thirdly, When the visible objects impress other vivid sensa
tions besides those of sight, such as grateful or ungrateful tastes,
smells, warmth, or coldness, with sufficient frequency, it follows
from the foregoing theory that these sensations must leave traces,
or ideas, which will be associated with the names of the objects,
so as to depend upon them. Thus an idea, or nascent percep
tion, of the sweetness of the nurse's milk will rise up in that
part of the child's brain which corresponds to the nerves of taste,
upon his hearing her name. And hence the whole idea belong
ing to the word nurse now begins to be complex, as consisting of
a visible idea, and an idea of taste. And these two ideas will be
associated together, not only because the word raises them both,
but also because the original sensations are. The strongest may
therefore assist in raising the weakest. Now, in common cases,
112 WORDS, AND Inii IDEAS
the visible idea is strongest, or occurs most readily at least ; but,
in the present instance, it seems to be otherwise. We might
proceed in like manner to shew the generation of ideas more and
more complex, and the various ways by which their parts are
cemented together, and all made to depend on the respective
names of the visible objects. But what has been said may suffice
to shew what ideas the names of visible objects, proper and ap
pellative, raise in us.
Fourthly, We must, however, observe, in respect of appellatives,
that sometimes the idea is the common compound result of all the
sensible impressions received from the several objects comprised
under the general appellation ; sometimes the particular idea of
some one of these, in great measure at least, viz. when the im
pressions arising from some one are more novel, frequent, and
vivid, than those from the rest.
Fifthly, The words denoting sensible qualities, whether sub
stantive or adjective, such as whiteness, white, &c. get their
ideas in a manner which will be easily understood from what has
been already delivered. Thus the word white, being associated
with the visible appearance of milk, linen, paper, gets a stable
power of exciting the idea of what is common to all, and a variable
one, in respect of the particularities, circumstances, and adjuncts.
And so of other sensible qualities.
Sixthly, The names of visible actions, as walking, striking, &c.
raise the proper visible ideas by a like process. Other ideas may
likewise adhere in certain cases, as in those of tasting, feeling,
speaking, &c. Sensible perceptions, in which no visible action, is
concerned, as hearing, may also leave ideas dependent on words.
However, some visible ideas generally intermix themselves here.
These actions and perceptions are generally denoted by verbs,
though sometimes by substantives.
And we may now see in what manner ideas are associated
with nouns, proper and appellative, substantive and adjective,
and with verbs, supposing that they denote sensible things only.
Pronouns and particles remain to be considered. Now, in order
to know their ideas and uses, we must observe,
Seventhly, That as children may leam to read words not only
in an elementary way, viz. by learning the letters and syllables
of which they are composed, but also in a summary one, viz. by
associating the sound of entire words, with their pictures, in the
eye ; and must, in some cases, be taught in the last way, ». e.
wheresoever the sound of the word deviates from that of its
elements ; so both children and adults learn the ideas belonging
to whole sentences many times in a summary way, and not by
adding together the ideas of the several words in the sentence.
And wherever words occur, which, separately taken, have no
5roper ideas, their use can be learnt in no other way but this.
Tow pronouns and particles, and many other words, are of this
kind. They answer, in some measure, to x, y, and z, or the
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 173
unknown quantities in algebra, being determinable and deci
pherable, as one may say, only by means of the known words
with which they are joined.
Thus / walk is associated at different times with the same
visible impression as nurse walks, brother walks, &c. and there
fore can suggest nothing permanently for a long time but the
action of walking. However the pronoun I, in this and innume
rable other short sentences, being always associated with the
person speaking, as thou is with the person spoken to, and he
with the person spoken of, the frequent recurrency of this teaches
the child the use of the pronouns, *. e. teaches him what diffe
rence he is to expect in his sensible impressions according as this
or that pronoun is used ; the infinite number of instances, as one
may say, making up for the infinitely small quantity of informa
tion, which each, singly taken, conveys.
In like manner, different particles, *. e. adverbs, conjunctions,
and prepositions, being used in sentences, where the substantives,
adjectives, and verbs, are the same, and the same particles, where
these are different, in an endless recurrency, teach children the
use of the particles in a gross general way. For it may be ob
served, that children are much at a loss for the true use of the
pronouns and particles for some years, and that they often repeat
the proper name of the person instead of the pronoun ; which
confirms the foregoing reasoning. Some of the inferior parts or
particles of speech make scarce any alteration in the sense of the
sentence, and therefore are called expletives. The several termi
nations of the Greek and Latin nouns and verbs are of the nature
of pronouns and particles.
Eighthly, The attempts which children make to express their
own wants, perceptions, pains, &c. in words, and the corrections
and suggestions of the attendants, are of the greatest use in all
the steps that we have hitherto considered, and especially in the
last, regarding the pronouns and particles.
Ninthly, Learning to read helps children much in the same
respects ; especially as it teaches them to separate sentences
into the several words which compound them ; which those
who cannot read are scarce able to do, even when arrived at
adult age.
Thus we may see, how children and others are enabled to
understand a continued discourse relating to sensible impressions
only, and how the words in passing over the ear must raise up
trains of visible and other ideas by the power of association. Our
next inquiry must be concerning the words that denote either
intellectual things, or collections of other words.
-/Tenthly, The words that relate to the several passions of love,
hatred, hope, fear, anger, &c. being applied to the child at the
times when he is under the influence of these passions, get the
power of raising the miniatures or ideas of these passions, and
also of the usual associated circumstances. The application of
174 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
the same words to others helps also to annex the ideas of the
associated circumstances to them, and even of the passions them
selves, both from the infectiousness of our natures, and from the
power of associated circumstances to raise the passions. How
ever, it is to be noted, that the words denoting the passions do
not, for the most part, raise up in us any degree of the passions
themselves, but only the ideas of the associated circumstances.
We are supposed to understand the continued discourses into
which these words enter sufficiently, when we form true notions
of the actions, particularly the visible ones attending them^
Eleventhly, The names of intellectual and moral qualities and
operations, such as fancy, memory, wit, dulness, virtue, vice,
conscience, approbation, disapprobation, &c. stand for a descrip
tion of these qualities and operations ; and therefore, if dwelt
upon, excite such ideas as these descriptions in all their particular
circumstances do. But the common sentences, which' these
words enter, pass over the mind too quick, for the most part, to
allow of such a delay. They are acknowledged as familiar and
true, and suggest certain associated visible ideas, and nascent
internal feelings, taken from the descriptions of these names, or
from the words, which are usually joined with them in discourses
or writings.
Twelfthly, There are many terms of art in all the branches of
learning, which are defined by other words, and which therefore
are only compendious substitutes for them. The same holds in
common life in numberless instances. Thus riches, honours,
pleasures, are put for the several kinds of each. Such words
sometimes suggest the words of their definitions, sometimes the
ideas of these words, sometimes a particular species comprehended
under the general term, &c. But, whatever they suggest, it
may be easily seen, that they derive the power of doing this from
association.
Thirteenthly, There are many words used in abstract sciences,
which can scarce be defined or described by any other words ;
and yet, by their grammatical form, seem to be excluded from
the class of particles. Such are identity, existence, &c. The
use of these must therefore be learnt as that of the particles is.
And indeed children learn their first imperfect notions of all the
words considered in this and the three last paragraphs chiefly in
this way ; and come to precise and explicit ones only by means of
books, as they advance to adult age, or by endeavouring to use
them properly in their own deliberate compositions.
-^This is by no means a full or satisfactory account of the ideas
which adhere to words by association. For the author perceives
himself to be still a mere novice in these speculations ; and it is
difficult to explain words to the bottom by words ; perhaps im
possible/ The reader will receive some addition of light and
evidence in the course of this section ; also in the next, in which
I shall treat of propositions and assent. For our assent to pro
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 175
positions, and the influence which they have over our affections
and actions, make part of the ideas that adhere to words by asso
ciation ; which part, however, could not properly be considered
in this section.
Cor. I. It follows from this proposition, that words may be
distinguished into the four classes mentioned under the twelfth
proposition.
1. Such as have ideas only.
2. Such as have both ideas and definitions.
3. Such as have definitions only.
4. Such as have neither ideas nor definitions.
Under definition I here include description, or any other way
of explaining a word by other words, excepting that by a mere
synonymous term ; and I exclude from the number of ideas the
visible idea of the character of a word, and the audible one of
its sound ; it being evident, that every word heard may thus
excite a visible idea, and every word seen an audible one. I
exclude also all ideas that are either extremely faint, or extremely
variable.
It is difficult to fix precise limits to these four classes, so as to
determine accurately where each ends, and the next begins ; and,
if we consider these things in the most general way, there is
perhaps no word which has not both an idea and a definition,
i. e. which is not attended by some one or more internal feelings
occasionally, and which may not be explained, in some imperfect
manner at least, by other words. I will give some instances of
words which have the fairest right to each class.
The names of simple sensible qualities are of the first class.
Thus white, sweet, &c. excite ideas ; but cannot be defined. It
is to be observed here, that this class of words stands only for
the stable part of the ideas respectively, not for the several
variable particularities, circumstances, and adjuncts, which inter
mix themselves here.
The names of natural bodies, animal, vegetable, mineral, are
of the second class ; for they excite aggregates of sensible ideas,
and at the same time may be defined (as appears from the
writings of natural historians) by an enumeration of their pro
perties and characteristics. Thus likewise geometrical figures
have both ideas and definitions. The definitions in both cases
are so contrived as to leave out all the variable particularities of
the ideas, and to be also more full and precise, than the ideas
generally are in the parts that are of the permanent nature.
Algebraic quantities, such as roots, powers, surds, &c. belong
to the third class, and have definitions only. The same may be
said of scientifical terms of art, and of most abstract general
terms, moral, metaphysical, vulgar : however, mental emotions
are apt to attend some of these even in passing slightly over the
ear ; and these emotions may be considered as ideas belonging to
the terms respectively. Thus the very words, gratitude, mercy,
176 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
cruelty, treachery, &c. separately taken, affect the mind ; and
yet, since all reasoning upon them is to be founded on their
definitions, as will be seen hereafter, it seems best to refer them
to this third class.
Lastly, the particles the, of, to, for, but, Sec. have neither defi
nitions nor ideas.
Cor. II. This matter may be illustrated by comparing lan
guage to geometry and algebra, the two general methods of
expounding quantity, and investigating all its varieties from
previous data.
Words of the first class answer to propositions purely geo
metrical, i. e. to such as are too simple to admit of algebra ; of
which kind we may reckon that concerning the equality of the
angles at the basis of an Isosceles triangle.
Words of the second class answer to that part of geometry
which may be demonstrated either synthetically or analytically ;
either so that the learner's imagination shall go along with every
step of the process painting out each line, angle, &c. according to
the method of demonstration used by the ancient mathematicians ;
or so that he shall operate entirely by algebraic quantities and
methods, and only represent the conclusion to his imagination,
when he is arrived at it, by examining then what geometrical
quantities the ultimately resulting algebraical ones denote. The
first method is in both cases the most satisfactory and affecting,
the last the most expeditious, and not less certain, where due
care is taken. A. blind mathematician must use words in the
last of these methods, when he reasons upon colours.
Words of the third class answer to such problems concerning
quadratures, and rectifications of curves, chances, equations of
the higher orders, &c. as are too perplexed to be treated geo
metrically.
Lastly, words of the fourth class answer to the algebraic
signs for addition, substraction, &c. to indexes, coefficients, &c.
These are not algebraic quantities themselves; but they alter
the import of the letters that are ; just as particles vary the
sense of the principal words of a sentence, and yet signify nothing
of themselves.
Geometrical figures may be considered as representing all the
modes of extension in the same manner as visible ideas do visible
objects ; and consequently the names of geometrical figures
answer to the names of these ideas. Now, as all kinds of
problems relating to quantity might be expounded by modes
of extension, and solved thereby, were our faculties sufficiently
exalted, so it appears possible to represent most kinds of ideas
by visible ones, and to pursue them in this way through all their
varieties and combinations. But as it seems best in the first
case to confine geometry to problems, where extension, and
motion, which implies extension, are concerned, using algebraic
methods for investigating all other kinds of quantity, so it seems
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 177
best also to use visible ideas only for visible objects and quali
ties, of which they are the natural representatives, and to denote
all other qualities by words considered as arbitrary signs. And
yet the representation of other quantities by geometrical ones,
and of other ideas by visible ones, is apt to make a more vivid
impression upon the fancy, and a more lasting one upon the1
memory. In similes, fables, parables, allegories, visible ideas
are used for this reason to denote general and intellectual ones.
Since words may be compared to the letters used in algebra,
language itself may be termed one species of algebra ; and,
conversely, algebra is nothing more than the language which is
peculiarly fitted to explain quantity of all kinds. As the letters,
which in algebra stand immediately for quantities, answer to the
words which are immediate representatives of ideas, and the
algebraic signs for addition, &c. to the particles, so the single
letters, which are sometimes used by algebraists to denote sums
or differences, powers or roots universal of other letters, for
brevity and convenience, answer to such words as have long
definitions, to terms of art, &c. which are introduced into the
sciences for the sake of compendiousness. Now, if every thing
relating to language had something analogous to it in algebra,
one might hope to explain the difficulties and perplexities
attending the theory of language by the corresponding particulars
in algebra, where every thing is clear, and acknowledged by all
that have made it their study. However, we have here no
independent point whereon to stand, since, if a person be disposed
to call the rules of algebra in question, we have no way of
demonstrating them to him, but by using words, the things to be
explained by algebra for that purpose. If we suppose indeed
the sceptical person to allow only that simple language, which is
necessary for demonstrating the rules of algebra, the thing would
be done ; and, as I observed just now, it seems impossible
to become acquainted with this, and at the same time to dis
allow it.
Cor. III. It will easily appear, from the observations here made
upon words, and the associations which adhere to them, that the
languages of different ages and nations must bear a great general
resemblance to each other, and yet have considerable particular
differences ; whence any one may be translated into any other,
so as to convey the same ideas in general, and yet not with
perfect precision and exactness. They must resemble one
another, because the phaenomena of nature, which they are all
intended to express, and the uses and exigences of human life,
to which they minister, have a general resemblance. But then,
as the bodily make and genius of each people, the air, soil, and
climate, commerce, arts, sciences, religion, &c. make considerable
differences in different ages and nations, it is natural to expect,
that the languages should have proportionable differences in
respect of each other.
N
178 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
Where languages have rules of etymology and syntax, that
differ greatly, which is the case of the Hebrew compared with
Greek or Latin, this will become a new source of difformity.
For the rules of etymology and syntax determine the application
and purport of words in many cases. Agreeably to which we
see that children, while yet unacquainted with that propriety of
words and phrases which custom establishes, often make new
words and constructions, which, though improper according to
common usage, are yet very analogous to the tenor of the lan
guage in which they speak.
The modern languages of this western part of the world answer
better to the Latin, than according to their original Gothic
plans, on this account ; inasmuch as not only great numbers of
words are adopted by all of them from the Latin, but also
because the reading Latin authors, and learning the Latin gram
mar, have disposed learned men and writers to mould their own
languages in some measure after the Latin. And, conversely,
each nation moulds the Latin after the idiom of its own lan
guage, the effect being reciprocal in all such cases.
In learning a new language, the words of it are at first sub
stitutes for those of our native language ; *. e. they are associated,
by means of these, with the proper objects and ideas. When
this association is sufficiently strong, the middle bond is dropped,
and the words of the new language become substitutes for, and
suggest directly and immediately, objects and ideas ; also clusters
of other words in the same language.
In learning a new language, it is much easier to translate from
it into the native one, than back again ; just as young children
are much better able to understand the expressions of others,
than to express their own conceptions. And the reason is the
same in both cases. Young children learn at first to go from the
words of others ; and those who learn a new language, from the
words of that language, to the things signified. And the reverse
of this, viz. to go from the things signified to the words, must be
difficult for a time, from what is delivered concerning successive
associations under the tenth and eleventh propositions. It is to
be added here, that the nature and connexions of the things
signified often determine the import of sentences, though their
grammatical analysis is not understood ; and that we suppose
the person who attempts to translate from a new language is
sufficiently expert in the inverse problem of passing from the
things signified to the corresponding words of his own language.
The power of association is every where conspicuous iu these
remarks.
Cor. IV. It follows also from the reasoning of this proposition,
that persons who speak the same language cannot always mean
the same things by the same words; but must mistake each
other's meaning. This confusion and uncertainty arises from the
different associations transferred upon the same words by the
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM.
difference in the accidents and events of our lives. It is, how
ever, much more common in discourses concerning abstract
matters, where the terms stand for collections of other terms,
sometimes at the pleasure of the speaker or writer, than in the
common and necessary affairs of life. For here frequent use,
and the constancy of the phaenomena of nature, intended to
be expressed by words, have rendered their sense determinate
and certain. However, it seems possible, and even not very
difficult, for two truly candid and intelligent persons to under
stand each other upon any subject.
That we may enter more particularly into the causes of this
confusion, and consequently be the better enabled to prevent it, let
us consider words according to the four classes above-mentioned.
Now mistakes will happen in the words of the first class, viz.
such as have ideas only, where the persons have associated these
words with different impressions. And the method to rectify
any mistake of this kind is for each person to shew with what
actual impressions he has associated the word in question. But
mistakes here are not common.
In words of the second class, viz. such as have both ideas and
definitions, it often happens, that one person's knowledge is
much more full than another's, and, consequently, his idea and
definition much more extensive. This must cause a misappre
hension on one side, which yet may easily be rectified by recurring
to the definition. It happens also sometimes in words of this
class, that a man's ideas, i. e. the miniatures excited in his
nervous system by the word, are not always suitable to his
definition, i. e. are not the same with those which the words of
the definition would excite. If then this person should pretend,
or even design, to reason from his definition, and yet reason
from his idea, a misapprehension will arise in the hearer, who
supposes him to reason from his definition merely.
In words of the third class, which have definitions only, and
no immediate ideas, mistakes generally arise through want of
fixed definitions mutually acknowledged, and kept to. How
ever, as imperfect fluctuating ideas, that have little relation to
the definitions, are often apt to adhere to the words of this class,
mistakes must arise from this cause also.
As to the words of the fourth class, or those which have
neither ideas nor definitions, it is easy to ascertain their use by
inserting them in sentences, whose import is known and acknow
ledged ; this being the method in which children learn to decypher
them: so that mistakes could not arise in the words of this
class, did we use moderate care and candour. And, indeed,
since children learn the uses of words most evidently without
having any data, any fixed point at all, it is to be hoped, that
philosophers, and candid persons, may learn at last to under
stand one another with facility and certainty; and get to the
very bottom of the connexion between words and ideas.
180 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
It seems practicable to make a dictionary of any language, in
which the words of that language shall all be explained with
precision by words of the same language, to persons who have no
more than a gross knowledge of that language. Now this also
shews, that, with care and candour, we might come to under
stand one another perfectly. Thus sensible qualities might be
fixed by the bodies, in which they are most eminent and dis
tinct ; the names of a sufficient number of these bodies being
very well known. After this, these very bodies, and all others,
might be defined by their sensible properties; and these two
processes would help each other indefinitely, actions might be
described from animals already defined, also from the modes of
extension, abstract terms defined, and the peculiar use of particles
ascertained. And such a dictionary would, in some measure, be
a real as well as a nominal one, and extend to things themselves.
The writer of every new and difficult work may execute that part
of such a dictionary which belongs to his subject ; at least in the
instances where he apprehends the reader is likely to want it.
Cor. V. When words have acquired any considerable power
of exciting pleasant or painful vibrations in the nervous system,
by being often associated with such things as do this, they may
transfer a part of these pleasures and pains upon indifferent
things, by being at other times often associated with such. This
is one of the principal sources of the several factitious pleasures
and pains of human life. Thus, to give an instance from child
hood, the words sweet, good, pretty, fine, &c., on the one hand,
and the words bad, ugly, frightful, Sec., on the other, being
applied by the nurse and attendants in the young child's hearing
almost promiscuously, and without those restrictions that are
observed in correct speaking, the one to all the pleasures, the
other to all the pains of the several senses, must by association
raise up general pleasant and painful vibrations, in which no one
part can be distinguished above the rest ; and when applied by
farther associations to objects of a neutral kind, they must
transfer a general pleasure or pain upon them.
All the words associated with pleasures must also affect each
other by this promiscuous application. And the same holds in
respect of the words associated with pains. However, since both
the original and the transferred pleasures and pains heaped upon
different words are different, and in some cases widely so, every
remarkable word will have a peculiar internal feeling, or senti
ment, belonging to it ; and there will be the same relations of
affinity, disparity, and opposition, between these internal senti
ments, i. e. ideas, belonging to words, as between the several
genera and species of natural bodies, between tastes, smells,
colours, &c. Many of these ideas, though affording considerable
pleasure at first, must sink into the limits of indifference ; and
some of those which afforded pain at first, into the limits of
pleasure. . What is here said of words, belongs to clusters of
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 181
them, as well as to separate words. And the ideas of all may
still retain their peculiarities, by which they are distinguished
from each other, after they have fallen below the limits of
pleasure into indifference, just as obscure colours, or faint
tastes, da
It is observable, that the mere transit of words expressing
strong ideas over the ears of children affects them ; and the same
thing is true of adults, in a less degree. However, the last have
learnt from experience and habit to regard them chiefly, as they
afford a rational expectation of pleasure and pain. This cannot
be discussed fully, till we come to consider the nature of assent;
but it may give some light and evidence to the reasoning of this
corollary, just to have mentioned the manner, in which we are at
first affected by words.
Cor. VI. Since words thus collect ideas from various quarters,
unite them together, and transfer them both upon other words,
and upon foreign objects, it is evident, that the use of words
adds much to the number and complexness of our ideas, and is
the principal means by which we make intellectual add moral
improvements. This is verified abundantly by the observations
that are made upon pe'rsons born deaf, and continuing so. It is
probable, however, that these persons make use of some symbols
to assist the memory, and fix the fancy : and they must have a
great variety of pleasures and pains transferred upon visible
objects from their associations with one another, and with sensible
pleasures of all the kinds; but they are very deficient in this,
upon the whole, through the want of the associations of visible
objects, and states of mind, &c., with words. Learning to read
must add greatly to their mental improvement; yet still their
intellectual capacities cannot but remain very narrow.
Persons blind from birth must proceed in a manner different
from that described in this proposition, in the first ideas which
they affix to words. As the visible ones are wanting, the others,
particularly the tangible and audible ones, must compose the
aggregates which are annexed to words. However, as they are
capable of learning and retaining as great a variety of words as
others, or perhaps a greater, cateris paribus, and can associate
with them pleasures and pains from the four remaining senses,
also use them as algebraists do the letters that represent quan
tities, they fall little or nothing short of others in intellectual
accomplishments, and may arrive even at a greater degree of
spirituality and abstraction in their complex ideas.
Cor. VII. It follows from this proposition, that, when chil
dren or others first learn to read, the view of the words excites
ideas only by the mediation of their sounds, with which alone
their ideas have hitherto been associated. And thus it is that
children and illiterate persons understand what they read best by
reading aloud. By degrees, the intermediate link being left out,
the written or printed characters suggest the ideas directly and
182 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
instantaneously ; so that learned men understand more readily by
passing over the words with the eye only, since this method, by
being more expeditious, brings the ideas closer together. How
ever, all men, both learned and unlearned, are peculiarly affected
by words pronounced in a manner suitable to their sense and
design ; which is still an associated influence.
Cor. VIII. As persons, before they learn to read, must have
very imperfect notions of the distinction of words, and can only
understand language in a gross general way, taking whole clusters
of words for one undivided sound, so much less can they be
supposed to have any conceptions concerning the nature or use
of letters. Now all mankind must have been in this state before
the invention of letters. Nay, they must have been farther
removed from all conceptions of letters, than the most unlearned
persons amongst us, since these have at least heard of letters,
and know that words may be written and read by means of
them. And this makes it difficult to trace out by what steps
alphabetical writing was invented ; or is even some presumption
that it is not a human invention. To which is to be added, that
the analyzing complex articulate sounds into their simple com
ponent parts appears to be a problem of too difficult and per
plexed a nature for the rude early ages, occupied in getting
necessaries, and defending themselves from external injuries, and
not aware of the great use of it, even though they had known the
solution to be possible and practicable. However, I shall men
tion some presumptions of a contrary nature under the next
proposition.
Prop. LXXXI.—To explain the Nature of Characters intended
to represent Objects and Ideas immediately, and without the
Intervention of Words.
Since characters made by the hand are capable of the greatest
varieties, they might be fitted by proper associations to suggest
objects and ideas immediately, in the same manner as articulate
sounds do. And there are some instances of it in common use,
which may serve to verify this, and to lead us into the nature of
characters standing immediately for objects and ideas. Thus the
numeral figures, and the letters in algebra, represent objects,
ideas, words, and clusters of words, directly and immediately ;
the pronunciation of them being of no use, or necessity, in the
operations to be performed by them. Thus also musical cha
racters represent sounds and combinations of sounds, without the
intervention of words, and are a much more compendious and
ready representation than any words can be.
Characters seem to have an advantage over articulate sounds
in the representation of visible objects, inasmuch as they might,
by their resemblance, even though only a gross one, become
rather natural, than mere arbitrary representatives.
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 183
They had also an advantage as representatives in general,
before the invention of alphabetical writing, since persons
could by this means convey their thoughts to each other at a
distance.
If we suppose characters to be improved to all that variety
and multiplicity which is necessary for representing objects,
ideas, and clusters of characters, in the same manner as words
represent objects, ideas, and clusters of words, still they might
be resolved into simple component parts, and rendered pro-
nunciable by affixing some simple or short sound to each of these
simple component parts; just as articulate sounds are painted
by being first resolved into their simple component parts, and
then having each of these represented by a simple mark or
character.
If we suppose the most common visible objects to be denoted
both by short articulate sounds, and by short characters bearing
some real, or fancied, imperfect resemblance to them, it is evi
dent, that the sound and mark, by being both associated with
the visible object, would also be associated with one another;
and consequently that the sound would be the name of the mark,
and the mark the picture of the sound. And this last circum
stance seems to lead to the denoting all sounds by marks, and
therefore perhaps to alphabetical writing.
At the same time it must be observed, that the marks would
bear different relations of similarity and dissimilarity to one
another from those which the corresponding sounds did.
This would happen, according to whatever law the marks were
made, but especially if they were resemblances of visible objects.
And this, as it seems, would occasion some difficulty and per
plexity in representing sounds by marks, or marks by sounds.
Prop. LXXXII.—To explain the Nature offigurative Words
and Phrases, and of Analogy, from the foregoing Theory.
^ A figure is a word, which, first representing the object or
idea A, is afterwards made to represent B, on account of the
relation which these bear to each other.
The principal relation, which gives rise to figures, is that of
likeness ; and this may be either a likeness in shape, and visible
appearance, or one in application, use, &c."7Now it is very evi
dent from the nature of association, that objects which are like
to a given one in visible appearance, will draw to themselves
the word by which this is expressed. And indeed this is the
foundation upon which appellatives are made to stand for so
great a number of particulars. Let the word man be applied to
the particular persons A, B, C, Sec. till it be sufficiently associated
with them, and it will follow, that the appearance of the new
particular person D will suggest the word, and be denoted by it.
But here there is no figure, because the word man is associated
184 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
with different particular persons from the first, and that equally
or nearly so.
In like manner, the corresponding parts of different animals,
*. e. the eyes, mouth, breast, belly, legs, lungs, heart, &c. have
the same names applied in a literal sense, partly from the like
ness of shape, partly from that of use and application. And it
is evident, that if we suppose a people so rude in language and
knowledge, as to have names only for the parts of the human
body, and not to have attended to the parts of the brute creatures,
association would lead them to apply the same names to the parts
of the brute creatures, as soon as they became acquainted with
them. Now here this application would at first have the nature
of a figure ; but when by degrees any of these words, the eye for
instance, became equally applied from the first to the eyes of
men and brutes, it would cease to be a figure, and become an
appellative name, as just now remarked.
But when the original application of the word is obvious, and
remains distinct from the secondary one, as when we say the
mouth or ear of a vessel, or the foot of a chair or table, the
expression is figurative.
Hence it is plain, that the various resemblances which nature
and art afford are the principal sources of figures. However,
many figures are also derived from other relations, such as those of
cause, effect, opposition, derivation, generality, particularity ; and
language itself, by its resemblances, oppositions, &c. becomes a
new source of figures, distinct from the relations of things.
Most metaphors, i. e. figures taken from likeness, imply a
likeness in more particulars than one, else they would not be
sufficiently definite, nor affect the imagination in a due manner.
If the likeness extend to many particulars, the figure becomes
implicitly a simile, fable, parable, or allegory.
<^Many or most common figures pass so far into literal ex
pressions by use, i. e. association, that we do not attend at all
to their figurative nature. And thus by degrees figurative senses
become a foundation for successive figures, in the same manner
as originally literal senses.
It js evident, that if a language be narrow, and much confined
to sensible things, it will have great occasion of figures : these
will naturally occur in the common intercourses of life, and will
in their turn, as they become literal expressions in the secondary
senses, much augment and improve the language, and assist the
invention. All this is manifest from the growth of modern
languages, in those parts where they were heretofore particularly
defective. >
We come now to the consideration of analogy. Now things
are said to be analogous to one another, in the strict mathematical
sense of the word analogy, when the corresponding parts are all
in the same ratio to each other. Thus if the several parts of the
body in different persons be supposed exactly proportional to
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 185
the whole bodies, they might be said to be analogous in the
original mathematical sense of that word. But as this restrained
sense is not applicable to things, as they really exist, another of
a more enlarged and practical nature has been adopted, which
may be thus defined. <^Analogy is that resemblance, and in some
cases sameness, of the parts, properties, functions, uses, &c. any
or all, of A to B, whereby our knowledge, concerning A, and the
language expressing this knowledge, may be applied in the whole,
or in part, to B, without any sensible, or, at least, any important
practical error. Now analogies, in this sense of the word, some
more exact and extensive, some less so, present themselves to us
every where in natural and artificial things ; and thus whole
groups of figurative phrases, which seem at first only to answer
the purposes of convenience in affording names for new objects,
and of pleasing the fancy in the way to be hereafter mentioned,
pass into analogical reasoning, and become a guide in the search
after truth, and an evidence for it in some degree.^ I will here
set down some instances of analogies of various degrees and
kinds.
The bodies of men, women, and children, are highly analogous
to each other. This holds equally in respect of every other species
of animals ; also of the several corresponding parts of animals of
the same species, as their flesh, blood, bones, fat, &c. and their
properties. Here the words applied to the several analogous
things are used in a sense equally literal in respect of all. And
the analogy is in most cases so close, as rather to be esteemed a
coincidence, or sameness.
/In comparing animals of different kinds the analogy grows
perpetually less and less, as we take in a greater compass ; and
consequently our language more and more harsh, when considered
as literal, whilst yet it cannot well be figurative in some things,
and literal in others ; so that new words are generally assigned
to those parts which do not sufficiently resemble the corre
sponding ones. Thus the fore-legs of men and fowls, as we might
call them in a harsh, literal, or a highly figurative way, are termed
hands and wings respectively^However, in some cases, the same
word is used, and considered as a figure ; as when the cries of
birds and beasts are termed their language. We may also
observe, that every part in every animal may, from its resemblance
in shape and use to the corresponding parts in several other
animals, have a just right to a name, which shall be common to
it and them.
What has been said of animals of the same and different kinds
holds equally in respect of vegetables. Those of the same kind
have the same names applied to the corresponding parts in a
literal sense. Those of different kinds have many names common
to all used in a literal sense, some new ones peculiar to certain
kinds, and some that may be considered as so harsh in a literal
sense, that we may rather call them figurative terms.
180 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
The same may be said of the mineral kingdom, considered also
according to its genera and species.
Animals are also analogous to vegetables in many things, and
vegetables to minerals: so that there seems to be a perpetual
thread of analogy continued from the most perfect animal to the
most imperfect mineral, even till we come to elementary bodies
themselves.
Suppose the several particulars of the three kingdoms to be
represented by the letters of an alphabet sufficiently large for
that purpose. Then we are to conceive, that any two con
tiguous species, as A and B, M and N, are more analogous than
A and C, M and O, which have one between them. However,
since A and B, M and N, are not perfectly analogous, this de
ficiency may be supplied in some things from C and O, in others
from D and P, &c. so that M can have no part, property, &c.
but what shall have something quite analogous to it in some
species, near or remote, above it or below it, and even in several
species. '\A.nd in cases where the parts, properties, &c. are not
rigorously exact in resemblance, there is, however, an imperfect
one, which justifies the application of the same word to both :
if it approach to perfection, the word may be said to be used in
a literal sense ; if it be very imperfect, in a figurative oner^Thus
when the names of parts, properties, &c. are taken from the
animal kingdom, and applied to the vegetable, or vice versa, they
are more frequently considered as figurative, than when trans
ferred from one part of the animal kingdom to another.
In like manner, there seems to be a gradation of analogies
respecting the earth, moon, planets, comets, sun, and fixed stars,
compared with one another. Or if we descend to the several
parts of individuals, animals, vegetables, or minerals, the several
organs of sensation are evidently analogous to each other ; also
the glands, the muscles, the parts of generation, in the different
sexes of the same kind, &c. &c. without limits. For the more
any one looks into the external natural world, the more
analogies, general or particular, perfect or imperfect, will he
find every where.
Numbers, geometrical figures, and algebraic quantities, are
also mutually analogous without limits. And here there is the
exactest uniformity, joined with an endless variety, so that it is
always certain and evident how far the analogy holds, and where
it becomes a disparity or opposition on one hand, or a coincidence
on the other. There is no room for figures here ; but the terms
must be disparate, opposite, or the same, in a strictly literal sense
respectively.
The several words of each particular language, the languages
themselves, the idioms, figures, &c. abound also with numerous
analogies of various kinds and degrees.
Analogies are likewise introduced into artificial things, houses,
gardens, furniture, dress, arts, &c.
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 187
<^The body politic, the body natural, the world natural, the
universe —The human mind, the minds of brutes on one
hand, and of superior beings on the other, and even the Infinite
Mind himself ; —<the appellations of father, governor, judge,
king, architect, &c. referred to God f—the ages of man, the ages
of the world, the seasons of the year, the times of the day ;—
the offices, professions, and trades, of different persons, states
men, generals, divines, lawyers, physicians, merchants ; -^flie
terms night, sleep, death, chaos, darkness, &c. also light, fife,
happiness, &c. compared with each other respectively ; life and
death, as applied in different senses to animals, vegetables,
liquors, earthquakes, storms, battles, tumults, fermentations
of liquors, law-suits, games, &c. families, bodies politic lesser and
greater, their laws, natural religion, revealed religion, &c. &c.
afford endless instances of analogies natural and artificial. For
the mind being once initiated into the method of discovering
analogies, and expressing them, does by association persevere in
this method, and even force things into its system by concealing
disparities, magnifying resemblances, and accommodating lan
guage thereto. <lt is easy to see, that in the instances last
alleged, the terms used are for the most part literal only in one
sense, and figurative in all their other applications. They are
literal in the sense which was their primary one, and figurative
in many or most of the rest.,Similes, fables, parables, allegories,
&c. are all instances of natural analogies improved and set off by
art. And they have this in common to them all, that the pro
perties, beauties, perfections, desires, or defects and aversions,
which adhere by association to the simile, parable, or emblem of
any kind, are insensibly, as it were, transferred upon the thing
represented. Hence the passions are moved to good or to evil.
Speculation is turned into practice, and either some important
truth felt and realized, or some error and vice gilded over and
recommended. V
Prop. LXXXIII.—To apply the foregoing Account of Words
and Characters to the Languages and Method of Writing of
the first Ages of the World.
Here there is a great difficulty through the want of sufficient
data. I will assume a few of those that appear to me most
probable, and just shew the method of applying the doctrine
of association to them ; leaving it to learned men, as they
become possessed of more and more certain data, to make
farther advances.
I suppose then, that Adam had some language, with some
instinctive knowledge concerning the use of it, as well as con
cerning divine and natural things, imparted to him by God at
his creation. It seems indeed, that God made use of the visible
appearances or actions, or perhaps of the several cries of the
188 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
brute creatures, as the means whereby he taught Adam their
names. But whether this was so, also whether, if it was, any
analogous method was taken in respect of the names of other
objects, or of ideas, and internal feelings, is an inquiry, in which
nothing that yet appears can afford satisfaction.
I suppose, also, that the language which Adam and Eve were
possessed of in paradise, was very narrow, and confined in great
measure to visible things ; God himself condescending to appear
in a visible, perhaps in a human shape, to them, in his revelations
of himself. It might also be monosyllabic in great measure.
They who suppose Adam to be capable of deep speculations,
and to have exceeded all his posterity in the subtilty and extent
of his intellectual faculties, and consequently in the number and
variety of his words, and the ideas belonging to them, have no
foundation for this opinion in scripture ; nor do they seem to
consider, that innocence, and pure unmixed happiness, may exist
without any great degrees of knowledge ; or that to set a value
upon knowledge considered in itself, and exclusively of its ten
dency to carry us to God, is a most pernicious error, derived
originally from Adam's having eaten of the tree of knowledge.
After the fall, we may suppose, that Adam and Eve extended
their language to new objects and ideas, and especially to those
which were attended with pain ; and this they might do some
times by inventing new words, sometimes by giving new senses
to old ones. However, their language would still continue
narrow, because they had only one another to cdnverse with,
and could not extend their knowledge to any great variety of
things ; also because their foundation was narrow. For the
growth and variations of a language somewhat resemble the
increase of money at interest upon interest.
' If to these reasons we add the long lives of the antediluvian
patriarchs, the want of arts and sciences in the antediluvian
world, and the want of leisure through the great labour and
fatigue necessary to provide food, clothing, &c. we shall have
reason to conjecture, that the whole antediluvian world would
speak the same language with Adam, and that without any
great additions or alterations. After a hundred or two hundred
years, association would fix the language of each person, so that
he could not well make many alterations ; but he must speak
the language of his forefathers till that time, because those to
the sixth or seventh generation above him were still living ; and
consequently he would continue to speak the same language,
i. e. the Adamic, with few variations, to the last. The narrowness
of the languages of barbarous nations may add some light and
evidence here.
If we suppose some kind of picture-writing to have been
imparted to Adam by God, or to have been invented by him,
or by any of his posterity, this might receive more alterations
and improvements than language, from the successive generations
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 189
of the antediluvians. For the variety of figures in visible objects
would suggest a sufficient variety in their characters ; the hand
could easily execute this ; and their permanency would both
give the antediluvians distinct ideas of all the original characters,
and all their variations, and also fix them in their memory.
We may suppose therefore, that though their words and marks
would be so associated together (agreeably to what was before
observed), as that the word would be the name of the corre
sponding mark, and the mark the picture of the word in many
cases, yet their marks would in some instances extend farther
than their words; and consequently, that on this account, as
well as because the marks would be similar and different, where
the words were not, there would be no alphabetical writing in
the antediluvian world.
They might, however, hand down a history of the creation,
fall, and principal events, in this picture-writing, attended with a
traditional explanation, which might remain uncorrupted and
invariable till the deluge. And indeed, if we suppose picture-
writing to be of divine original, it will be most probable, that
they received a divine direction to do this, and that they would
not apply their picture-writing to any other purpose for some
time : just as the Israelites afterwards seem to have employed
alphabetical writing chiefly for recording the divine dispensations
and interpositions.
After the flood, the great change made in the face of things,
and in natural bodies, with the appearance perhaps of some
entirely new ones, would make some parts of the antediluvian
language superfluous, at the same time that it would be greatly
defective upon the whole. Hence we may suppose, that the
antediluvian language must recieve much greater alterations and
additions just after the flood, than at any time before. But
Noah and his wife, having their words and ideas more firmly
associated together than Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and their
wives, on account of their superior age, would be far less able to
make the requisite changes in their language. Something like
this must also take place in respect of their picture-writing, if
we suppose there was any such thing in the antediluvian world.
Let us suppose this, and also with Mr. Whiston and Mr. Shuck-
ford, that Noah, his wife, and their postdiluvian posterity, settled
early in China, so as to be cut off from Shem, Ham, and Japheth,
and their posterity. Here then we may suppose farther, that
they would alter and improve their picture-writing, or character,
so as to suit it to the new face of things in the postdiluvian world,
and to make it grow with the growth of knowledge, more than
they would their language, from the greater facility of doing
this: for I presume, that the antediluvian language contained
but few of the articulate sounds which are now known, and that
they could not invent more. Thus their character and language
would both of them be the immediate representatives of objects
190 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
and ideas ; only the use and application of the character would be
much more extensive than that of the language. After some
time, some centuries, or even chiliades, suppose, both the cha
racter and language would begin to be fixed, to have fewer new
marks and words added, and fewer alterations made in the old
ones in any given interval of time. The words would also be so
firmly associated with the corresponding marks, as to be the
names of them, *. e. to represent them, as well as the objects or
ideas to which they were originally affixed. But then there
would be many marks, to which there would be no such names,
taken from the names of objects and ideas, on account of the
poverty of the language here supposed. They would, however,
endeavour to give them some names ; and hence a diversity
would arise in their language. We may conceive also, that as
they separated farther from one another, in multiplying, par
ticular clans would deviate even in the pronunciation of the
monosyllabic words of the original language, as in the several
dialects of other languages ; and consequently deviate still more
in the compound names of the marks: but the marks being
permanent things, capable of being handed down accurately to
the successive generations, and of being conveyed to distant
countries, would continue intelligible to all. And thus we may
conceive, that the postdiluvian posterity of Noah might all write
the same characters, and yet speak different languages ; also that
their character would be very extensive, and always the imme
diate representative of objects and ideas, whereas their language
would be narrow, and in some cases the immediate representative
of the character, and only denote objects and ideas by means of
this. And this I take to be the case with the people of China,
and the neighbouring countries of Japan, Tonquin, Siam, &c.
But I only presume to offer conjectures, not having any know
ledge of the character or languages of these countries.
Since the Chinese marks are very numerous, and their simple
words very few, whereas our words are very numerous, and our
simple marks, or the letters of our alphabet, very few; also
since our words are the sole immediate representatives of objects
and ideas, our written and printed marks being merely artificial
pictures of words; one might suspect, that the Chinese words
are, in correspondence to this, merely an artificial enunciation of
their character. But I think this not so probable, as the mixed
supposition mentioned in the last paragraphs For it cannot be
supposed, that any nation should be so far destitute of language,
as not to have words for common objects, and internal feelings ;
or having these, that they should lay them entirely aside, and
adopt the artificial names of the marks representing those objects
and ideas in their steads. But they might easily adopt names,
simple or compound, at first ascribed artificially to marks, whose
objects and ideas had before this adoption no names.
That in affixing names artificially to marks, a great diversity
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 191
might arise, appears from the great diversity of alphabetical
characters expressing the same words. Thus the Hebrew,
Samaritan, and Syriac languages, agree nearly in sound and
sense, but differ entirely in characters. Thus also, amongst
modern languages, several are written in different characters, as
English in the common round-hand, in various law-hands, and
various short-hands.
Let us now return to Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and their
posterity. They must be supposed to proceed in the same
manner, in general, as Noah and his immediate posterity, till
the confusion of tongues at Babel ; excepting that Shem, Ham,
and Japheth, with their wives, would be more apt to alter their
character and language, and suit them to their present exigences,
than Noah and his wife, on account of their being all young
persons ; also that, being all as it were equal to each other, they
might each of them be the authors of certain diversities in the
common character and language, and establish them in their
respective posterities. However, if Noah be supposed to have
continued with them till the division of the earth by God's
command, and then only to have departed from his postdiluvian
posterity for China, the country assigned to him, whilst Shem,
Ham, and Japheth, with their posterity, began to build the tower
of Babel in opposition to God's command, then Noah, and all
his sons, &c. must be supposed to have suited their character
and language to the new world in nearly the same manner.
The confusion of tongues at Babel appears to me to be mira
culous for the following reasons.
First, This appears to be the most natural interpretation of
the text.
Secondly, Thus the confusion of tongues will correspond to
the gift of language imparted to Adam at his creation, which
must be supposed ; also to the gift of tongues at Pentecost.
Thirdly, Learned men seem to have shewn, that the diversity
of ancient languages does by no means favour the supposition of
a natural derivation of them all from one original form.
Fourthly, The original plan of the Greek and Latin tongues
(which I consider as sister languages derived from the same
mother or original plan), appears to have been very uniform, yet
with a considerable variety. Now I think this uniformity and
variety could scarce be invented and established by rude multi
tudes, almost entirely occupied in providing necessaries for
themselves, and much less as alphabetical writing seems to be of
a later date than the diversity of languages. And in fact we do
not find, that barbarous nations do by length of time improve
their languages so as in any measure to approach to the per
fection of the Greek or Latin, or of their common mother. It
adds strength to this argument, that the original plan of the
Greek and Latin, i. e. the rules of etymology and syntax, as
grammarians call them, is entirely different from that of the
192 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
Hebrew and Arabic (whose original plans agree), though the
first colonies, which came by sea into Greece and Italy, came
from Palestine and Egypt, i. e. from the neighbourhood of
countries where Hebrew and Arabic were spoken.
Fifthly, The natural deviation of languages, since history has
been clear and certain, does by no means correspond to a sup
posed natural derivation of all languages from one mother-tongue,
especially in so short a time as the interval between the flood
and the rise of many different ancient languages. Let the
reader here only reflect upon the great difference of the Biblical
Hebrew from the ancientest Greek extant, and the small dif
ference of this from modern Greek, or of the Biblical Hebrew
from the Rabbinical.
If now the confusion of tongues was miraculous, we may con
jecture, from the agreements and disagreements of mother-lan
guages from each other, that it was of the following kind.
First, That the original monosyllabic words of the antediluvian
language were incorporated into each new language.
Secondly, That as these words included only few of the arti
culate sounds of which the human voice is capable, the several
families were put upon making new articulations, some having
one set, some another, imparted to them.
Thirdly, That each family had a new stock of words given
them, consisting partly of old, partly of new articulations ; and
that this new stock far exceeded the old one in number and
variety.
Fourthly, That a new and different etymology and syntax
were also communicated to each family.
Fifthly, That there were as many new languages given as
there are heads of families mentioned Gen. x. ; the confusion of
tongues, by which the division of the earth was effected, not
happening till Joktan's sons were old enough to be heads of
families, though it had been determined and declared by God
before. Those families, however, which were derived from the
same stock, or had contiguous countries assigned to them, might
be inspired with languages that had a proportionable affinity.
Whatever may become of these particular conjectures, I think
it highly probable, that the new languages far exceeded the old
common one in the number and variety of words ; and that the
confusion of tongues was by this means a beneficial gift and
blessing to mankind, as all God's other chastisements used to be.
We may also see reasons to make us judge, that a diversity
of languages is suited to the other circumstances of mankind.
For this must prevent the infection of vice from spreading with
such rapidity, as it would otherwise have done, had mankind
lived together in one large body, and had a free communication
with each other by means of the same language.
Diversity of languages does also both help the invention, and
correct false judgments. For we think in words, as appears by
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 193
the foregoing theory, and invent chiefly by means of their ana
logies ; at the same time that a servile adherence to those of any
one language, or the putting words for things, would lead us into
many' errors. Now diversity of languages does both enlarge the
--. field of invention, and by opposing analogy to analogy preserve
us from the prejudices derived from mere verbal agreements.
Let me add here, that the abstract terms of logicians, meta
physicians, and schoolmen, which may be considered as a distinct
.language, have spiritualized men's understandings, and taught
them to use words in reasoning, as algebraists do symbols.
Different languages do likewise improve one another, and help
one another to grow in some proportion to the advancement in
the knowledge of things.
Let us now examine the probable consequences of supposing
different languages, and such as were far more copious than the
old one, to be given at once miraculously.
First then, The character, which suited the old language very
imperfectly, would be still less suited to the new one.
Secondly, The new language might be more copious, and
better adjusted to express objects and ideas, than the character.
And this I think can scarce be doubted, if we suppose the new
languages given miraculously.
Thirdly, The agreement between many of the marks of the
character, and the words of the old language, may be supposed
likely to put some persons upon denoting the words of the new
language by marks. But whether this would necessarily lead to
alphabetical writing, is very doubtful. I think not. The first
attempts at least would not be alphabetical writing.
Fourthly, Persons of different families, who could not under
stand one another's language, might yet correspond by the cha
racter. However, one may guess from the circumstances of
things in ancient times, that this would seldom take place in fact.
Fifthly, This and the convenience of corresponding with per
sons of the same family at a distance, also the desire of preserving
memorials of remarkable events and transactions, might make
them continue the use of the character, and improve it, considered
as a method of conveying ideas, distinct from that of language.
And the character thus separated from the language might give
rise to hieroglyphical writing in all its varieties.
Sixthly, The patriarchs after the flood in the line of Shem
might convey in succession the history of the creation, fall, de
luge, calling of Abraham, &c. either in the original picture-
writing improved, or in the mixed character, which, according
to the third of these consequences, denoted in some imperfect
gross way the words of the new language. And some of the
difficulties of the book of Genesis may be owing to its consisting
of patriarchal records of one of these kinds, translated by Moses
into the Hebrew of his own times, and then written alpha
betically.
o
194 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
I do not think it necessary to have recourse to any such hypo
thesis as this, in order to vindicate the truth and authority of the
book of Genesis. The length of life, even after the flood, to the
time of Moses, appears sufficient for the preservation of such
important traditional histories uncorrupted in the religious line
of Shem, by natural means. Or God might interpose miracu
lously, as in so many other instances in patriarchal times.
If it be objected, that we have not the least intimation of
writing of any kind in Genesis, 1 answer, that this is a difficulty.
However, one cannot draw any certain conclusions from an
omission. The original of writing is not likely to be one of the
first things which would be committed to writing. And if it was
used only for the conveyance of important facts to the succeeding
generations, we have no reason to expect the incidental mention
of it. It was probably so tedious and difficult a thing to express
themselves accurately in it, and verbal messages and contracts so
I easy and natural in those simple ages, when the veracity of the
' messenger or contractor was not suspected, as that writing was
never used after the confusion of tongues, when language became
copious, unless in affairs of great consequence.
Picture-writing is alluded to in the second commandment, and
must have been in use for some time before, since a system of
idolatry had been founded upon it. And this may incline one
to think, that it had been chiefly employed in sacred affairs, and
therefore perhaps communicated originally to Adam by God.
However, if we suppose, that it did not take place till after the
flood, this will not totally vitiate the foregoing conjectures. The
main purport of them may stand with due alterations and allow
ances. But it would be tedious to state all the varieties in things
of so uncertain a nature.
I come now to the art of alphabetical writing. This I conjec
ture to have been communicated miraculously by God to Moses
at Sinai, for the following reasons, which, however, 1 do not judge
to be decisive ones.
First, then, God is said to have written with his own finger
upon the tables of stone. And I think it would be harsh to
suppose this done in conformity to, and, as one may say, imita
tion of, any mere imperfect human invention.
Secondly, The Israelites are the only people in the whole
world that have preserved any regular account of their own
original. This is easily accounted for upon supposition, that
alphabetical writing was first given to thein in perfection ; and
afterwards, suppose in the time of Eli, borrowed by other nations,
and accommodated in an imperfect manner to their languages.
But if we suppose any other nation, the Egyptians or Arabians
for instance, to have invented writing before the time of Moses,
it will be somewhat difficult to assign a reason why other persons
should not have borrowed this invention as well as Moses, and,
like him, have given some account of their own nation, and their
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 195
ancestors ; and more difficult to assign a reason why the people,
who invented alphabetical writing, should not do this.
As to the Egyptians in particular, their continuing to use
hieroglyphical writing, and excelling in it, shews, that they could
not have invented alphabetical ; for this, if we suppose it in
vented so early as before the time of Moses, would have abolished
that, just as the use of the ten cyphers has all the other imperfect
methods of notation of numbers. Nor does it seem very likely,
that hieroglyphical writing should lead to alphabetical, but
rather from it, since hieroglyphical characters are the immediate
representatives of objects and ideas, and the mediate repre
sentatives not of letters, or simple articulate sounds, but of
words, and even of clusters of words. It seems probable also,
that the Egyptians would even be backward in receiving alpha
betical writing from the Israelites at the time that the Philistines
or Phoenicians did ; as being then greatly advanced in the use
of their own hieroglyphical writing, and prejudiced in its favour.
And thus we may solve that very difficult question, why the
Egyptians, who seem to have erected a kingdom early (however,
I judge Nimrod's to have been the first by the manner in which
Moses has mentioned it), and to have brought it to considerable
perfection before Joseph's time, and to very great perfection
afterwards, chiefly by his means, should yet have left no history
of their affairs, nor even of the great empire under Sesac or
Sesostris, and his successors. For they had no public calamities
sufficient in any measure to destroy all their records, till the time
of Cambyses ; and the desolation under him being less in degree,
shorter in duration, in a kingdom of greater extent, and two
generations later in time than that of the Jewish state under
Nebuchadnezzar, which yet did not destroy the Jewish records,
could not have totally destroyed the Egyptian records, had they
been more early, and superior to the Jews, in the use of alpha
betical writing. Even the Greeks, who had no alphabetical
writing till six hundred years after the time of Moses, have given
a better account of their affairs, than the Egyptians. It ought,
however, to be remarked in this place, that if we suppose the
Jewish history to have been recorded by the divine appointment
and direction, which is highly probable, this will lessen the force
of the present argument, but not quite destroy it.
Thirdly, The late reception of writing amongst the Greeks, is
both an argument, that it did not exist in any other neighbouring
nation before the time of Moses, and also is consistent with its
being miraculously communicated to him, to be made use of for
sacred purposes, and for the preservation of the history of the
world, and true religion, amongst God's peculiar people the
Israelites. I here suppose, that the art of writing was not known
to the Greeks, till the time of Cadmus ; and that he came into
Greece, agreeable to Sir Isaac Newton's opinion, about the
middle of David's reign. And indeed, unless the principal points
19G WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
of his chronology be admitted, it does not appear to me, that any
rationale can be given of ancient times, the inventions that rose
up in them, the establishment and duration of kingdoms, their
mutual intercourses, &c.
For, first, If alphabetical writing was known upon the conti
nent of Asia and Africa six hundred years before Cadmus, how
could it be kept from the Greeks till his arrival amongst them,
and then accommodated to the Greek tongue only very imper
fectly ? For the Greeks received but sixteen letters from him.
The Greek tongue came itself perhaps from Egypt, in some
measure; and they who brought the language two generations
before Cadmus, would have brought an exact method of writing
it alphabetically, had they been possessed of any such. For it is
not probable, that Inachus, and the colonies of Egyptians that
came with him, and after him, should change their language
entirely for that of the poor wandering Cimmerians, whom they
found in Greece, since we see in fact, that the colonies of Eu
ropeans do sometimes teach the barbarous natives, where they
go, an European language ; but never change it for theirs.
Secondly, If alphabetical writing was given to Moses mira
culously, it is easy to be conceived, that it should not arrive at
Greece sooner than the time of Cadmus. For the Jews were a
separate people, their priests kept the writings of Moses in the
ark, i. e. the only alphabetical writings in the world ; and must
be some time before they could be ready and expert either in
reading or writing; in their attempts to copy, it is probable they
would make some mistakes so as to fall short of the purity and
perfection of the art, as communicated by God; the neighbouring
nations feared and hated the Israelites, their religion, and their
God ; they had probably a picture-writing, or perhaps some
imperfect method of denoting words, agreeably to what has
been remarked above, which answered all purposes that seemed
necessary to them ; and thus the art of alphabetical writing
might not transpire to any of the neighbouring nations till the
time of Eli, when the ark, with the writings of Moses in it,
was taken by the Philistines. For since the writings of Moses
were not in the ark, when it was put in the temple by Solomon,
it may be, that the Philistines kept them, and learnt from them
the art of writing alphabetically, being now sufficiently prepared
for it by such notions concerning it, as had transpired to them
previously in their former intercourses with the Israelites. And
thus the Phoenicians, or Philistines, will have appeared the in
ventors of letters to the Greeks ; and Cadmus may well be
supposed to have been able to accommodate the Phoenician
method of writing, in an imperfect manner, to the Greek lan
guage, about two generations after the taking of the ark. Thus
also, when Samuel put the writings of Moses together, as they
had been copied by the priests, or others, in the order in which
they now stand in the Pentateuch, there would be some devi
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 197
at.ions from the original method of writing communicated to
Moses by God; and these, with such as happened in after-times,
particularly upon the return from the Babylonish captivity
(when it is supposed by some, that even the original letters were
changed), may have made the ancient method of writing the
Hebrew, as the Jews practise it in their bibles for the syna
gogues without points, so imperfect as not to appear to be of
divine original. For the same reasons, the corruptions of the
Hebrew language, or the language given to Heber or Peleg,
at the confusion of tongues, before Moses's time, may incline
us to think the Hebrew of the Pentateuch not sufficiently
regular for a divine communication. Much is also to be ascribed
to our own ignorance in both these cases. However, there is a
wonderful simplicity and uniformity still left, both in the Biblical
Hebrew, and in the manner of writing it without points ; so
great, as to appear to me superior to the invention of rude
ancient times.
Fourthly, The order of the Greek and Latin alphabets, by
being taken from that of the Hebrew, as we have it in the
alphabetical Psalms, bears testimony to the great antiquity of
the Hebrew alphabet. It is to be observed here, that both the
Greek and Latin alphabets coincide with the Hebrew alphabet,
as much as with each other, or more ; and that there is no
other ancient alphabet remaining to be a competitor to the
Hebrew.
Fifthly, The resolution of the complex articulate sounds of
ancient languages into simple elements or letters, and then
recomposing these complex sounds in writing them down alpha
betically, seems to me, as observed above, too difficult a problem
for ancient times ; especially as they neither could see the use of
it, nor conceive the practicability. It would have appeared to
them a task of an infinite extent; they would never conceive,
that so small a number of elements would be sufficient, even
supposing they could first hit upon the design. It confirms this,
that no barbarous nation has ever invented alphabetical writing
for themselves. They continue ignorant of it till taught. How
ever, let it be observed, on the other hand, that as the ancient
languages were simple and narrow, the difficulty of analysing
their complex sounds would be the less upon that account.
Sixthly, Since the method of making and erecting the taber
nacle was communicated by God to Moses, Bezaleel, and Aho-
liab, in a supernatural manner, we may more easily suppose the
art of writing alphabetically to be a divine gift. But then it is
some objection to this, that Moses has not mentioned it as a
divine gift, at least not expressly.
Seventhly, The time of Moses appears to be a suitable one for
such a gift, as human life was then, perhaps, just brought down
to the present degree of shortness. Till Moses's time, the length
of life had preserved the sacred traditions uncorrupted, either
198 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
with or without the helps above-mentioned, at least in the line
of Abraham ; but then tradition began to be mixed with fables,
and to lead to idolatry.
Eighthly, Alphabetical writing, by being introduced among the
Israelites in the wilderness, would abolish hieroglyphical, and
consequently cut off one source of idolatry. It would likewise
make them superior to the Egyptians, their enemies, in the art
of writing; who, perhaps, prided themselves much upon account
of their perfection in hieroglyphical writing, as they might also
in their river, the wisdom of their policy, the comparative greatness
of their kingdom, their magical arts, religious ceremonies, &c.
For this would tend to the glory of the God of the Israelites,
and the establishment of the true religion amongst them.
It may be objected here, that alphabetical writing was in use
before *he giving of the law at Sinai, since Moses was directed
before this to write an account of the battle with Amalek in a
book ; also to write the names of the children of Israel upon the
high-priest's breast-plate, like the engravings of a signet. I
answer, that both these may refer to a picture-writing, or to
some improvement of it, whereby entire words were denoted,
without being resolved into their simple sounds. The first might
also be a prophetic intimation to Moses, however not understood
by him when it was given, that he should be soon enabled to
write in a much more complete manner than he, or his enemies
the Egyptians, could at present.
The Edomites seem also to have had some kind of writing
early, from the account which we have of their dukes in Genesis.
But this might be only picture or verbal writing, explained to
Samuel by some Edomite, at the time when he put together the
writings of Moses: or they might learn writing from the Israelites,
sooner than any other nation, as being nearly related in blood,
and contiguous to them in situation.
The simplicity and uniformity of the Arabic tongue would
also incline one to think, that the inhabitants of Arabia bad
alphabetical writing early, this having a great tendency to pre
serve a fixed standard in a language. But the Ishmaelites, or
Midianites, who were nearly related to the Israelites, or the
Kenites, who lived amongst them, might learn it from them,
perhaps even during their abode in the wilderness. We may
observe also, that the Arabic tongue was not only fixed, but
perhaps rendered more regular, soon after the time of Mahomet,
by means of the Alcoran, and of the grammars that were made
for this language some time afterwards : and that before Maho
met's time, the Arabians had little communication with their
neighbours, and therefore would preserve their language more
pure and simple.
The changes which have happened to languages, and to the
methods of writing them, since the invention of letters, and
which are treated of with great copiousness in the writings of
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 199
grammarians and critics, afford innumerable attestations to the
doctrine of association, and may, conversely, be much illustrated
by it. But the full detail of this must be left to those who are
well skilled in the several ancient and modern languages.
Prop. LXXXIV.—To explain the general Nature of a Philo
sophical Language, and hint some Methods in which it might
be constructed upon the foregoing Principles.
<^If we suppose mankind possessed of such a language, as that
they could at pleasure denote all their conceptions adequately,
i. e. without any deficiency, superfluity, or equivocation ; if,
moreover, this language depended upon a few principles assumed,
not arbitrarily, but because they were the shortest and best
possible, and grew on from the same principles indefinitely, so
as to correspond to every advancement in the knowledge of things,
this language might be termed a philosophical one, and would as
much exceed any of the present languages, as a paradisiacal state
does the mixture of happiness and misery, which has been our
portion ever since the fall. And it is no improbable supposition,
that the language given by God to Adam and Eve, before the
fall, was of this kind ; and though it might be narrow, answered
all their exigencies perfectly wehV>-
Now there are several methods, in which it does not seem
impossible for mankind in future ages to accomplish so great a
design.
Thus, first, They may examine all the possible simple articula
tions of which their organs are capable, with all the combinations,
or complex articulate sounds, that result from them, and the
relations which these bear one to another, and assign to each
respectively such simple and complex ideas, and such variations
of the last, as a deep insight into the nature of things, objects,
ideas, the powers of the human mind, &c. shall demand by a
natural claim, so as to make every expression the shortest and
best possible, ^nd though this, in our present state of ignorance,
cannot but seem an impracticable project, yet the same ignorance
should teach us, that we can form no notions at all of the great
increase of knowlege, which may come in future ages, and which
seems promised to come in the latter happy times predicted by \
the prophecies.^. However, the great, and to former times incon
ceivable, advancement of knowledge, which has been made in the
two last centuries, may help a little to qualify our prejudices.
Secondly, If all the simple articulate sounds, with all the radical
words, which are found in the present languages, were appro
priated to objects and ideas agreeably to the present senses of
words, and their fitness to represent objects and ideas, so as to
make all consistent with itself; if, farther, the best rules of
etymology and syntax were selected from the present languages,
and applied to the radical words here spoken of, so as to render
200 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
them capable of expressing all the variations in objects and ideas,
as far as possible, *. e. so as to grow proportionably to the growth
of knowledge, this might also be termed a philosophical language ;
and, though more imperfect and narrow than the last, yet seems
more possible to be brought to execution and practice.
Thirdly, If such simple articulations as are now wanting in the
Hebrew alphabet were added to it, and its radical words, com
posed of all the combinations of twos and threes completed,
proper simple senses being assigned to them, from other languages
suppose, and particularly from the Arabic, Chaldee, Syriac, and
Samaritan, as in Castellus's lexicon, and other books of a like
kind; if, farther, such new rules of etymology and syntax were
added to those which take place at present in the Biblical Hebrew,
as this increase of the radicals, and application of the language
to the whole aggregate of objects and ideas requires ; we should
have a much more simple, precise, and extensive language, than
any now in being. It would also be easy to be understood by
the Jews in all quarters of the world. For most of them have
some knowledge of the Biblical Hebrew, and many understand
the Rabbinical, which seems to be formed upon a plan not very
unlike that here proposed, though without any express design ;
and to which, therefore, a due regard ought to be had by any
one, who should attempt to execute this plan. Many eastern
nations, and the Mahometans every where, would also be expert
in learning this language, from the relation and resemblance
which it would bear to languages already known by them; and
it would be easier to be learnt by perfect novices than any other,
on account of its greater simplicity and regularity. A dictionary
might be made for it in itself ; the Biblical Hebrew, where its
sense is determinate and known, being the basis, or thing given.
In the mean time, where the writer endeavours to express
himself with plainness, sincerity, and precision, being first duly
qualified by the knowledge of his subject, and the reader pays a
due regard to him, as his teacher, for the then present time, by
using sufficient industry and candour, the ill effects of the con
fusion of tongues become evanescent in respect of them. But it
would be happy to take away all occasion of mistake from the
bulk of mankind, and to give them an opportunity of learning
important truths with more ease and certainty, and in a shorter
time, than they can at present.
It may not be amiss to add here, that Mr. Byrom's method of
short-hand affords an accurate and elegant instance of the possi
bility of proceeding in such matters upon simple and philosophical
principles ; his short-hand being a real and adequate representa
tion of the sounds of the English tongue, as far as is necessary
for determining the sense, and that in the shortest manner
possible. If we were possessed of a philosophical language, it
ought to be denoted by this character, mutatis vmtandis.
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 201
Prop. LXXXV.—To illustrate and confirm the general Doctrine
of Association by the particular Associations that take place
in respect of Language.
This has been done, in great measure, already, in the corollaries
to the twelfth proposition. I will here insert some observations
of a like kind, which would have interrupted the reader too much
in that place, but may properly follow the account of language
given in this section.
Let a, b, c, d, &c. the several letters of an alphabet, supposed
to be sufficiently extensive for the purpose, represent respectively
the several simple sensible pleasures and pains, to which a child
becomes subject upon its first entrance into the world. Then will
the various combinations of these letters represent the various
combinations of pleasures and pains, formed by the events and
incidents of human life ; and, if we suppose them to be also the
words of a language, this language will be an emblem or adum
bration of our passage through the present life ; the several par
ticulars in this being represented by analogous ones in that.
Thus the reiterated impressions of the simple sensible pleasures
and pains made upon the child, so as to leave their miniatures, or
ideas, are denoted by his learning the alphabet ; and his various
associations of these ideas, and of the pleasures and pains them
selves, by his putting letters and syllables together, in order to
make words : and when association has so far cemented the com
ponent parts of any aggregate of ideas, pleasures and pains,
together, as that they appear one indivisible idea, pleasure or
pain, the child must be supposed by an analogous association to
have learnt to read without spelling.
As the child's words become more and more polysyllabic by
composition and decomposition, till at length whole clusters run
together into phrases and sentences, all whose parts occur at
once, as it were, to the memory, so his pleasures and pains become
more and more complex by the combining of combinations ; and
in many cases numerous combinations concur to form one
apparently simple pleasure.
The several relations of words, as derived from the same root,
as having the same -prepositions and terminations, &c. represent
corresponding relations in the compound ideas, pleasures, and
pains.
When the complex pleasures and pains, formed from miniatures
of the sensible ones, become the means of gaining other and
greater pleasures, viz. by fading from frequent repetition, and so
becoming mere ideas, or by any other method, we must suppose,
that our present knowledge in language is used as a means of
, attaining farther knowledge in it.
As the sight and sound of words, impressed upon us on common
occasions, do not at all suggest the original of these words from
simple letters, this being a light in which grammarians and
202 WORDS, AND THE IDEAS
linguists alone consider words ; so the complex pleasures and
pains may pass over men's minds, and be felt daily, and yet not
be considered by them as mere combinations, unless they be
peculiarly attentive and inquisitive in this respect.
This comparison may serve as a method of assisting the reader's
conceptions, in respect of the manner in which combinations of
miniatures are formed. It is also a considerable evidence in
favour of the general doctrine of association, since language is not
only a type of these associated combinations, but one part of the
thing typified. <^Was human life perfect, our happiness in it
would be properly represented by that accurate knowledge of
things, which a truly philosophical language would give us.
And if we suppose a number of persons thus making a progress
in pure unmixed happiness, and capable both of expressing their
own feelings, and of understanding those of others, by means of
a perfect and adequate language, they might be like new senses
and powers of perception to each other, and both give to and
receive from each other happiness indefinitely. But as human
life is, in fact, a mixture of happiness and misery, so all our
languages must, from the difference of our associations, convey
falsehood as well as truth, as above noted. ^.>And yet, since our
imperfect languages improve, purify, and correct themselves per
petually by themselves, and by other means, so that we may hope
at last to obtain a language, which shall be an adequate repre
sentation of ideas and a pure channel of conveyance for truth
alone, analogy seems to suggest, that the mixture of pleasures
and pains, which we now experience, will gradually tend to a
collection of pure pleasures only, and that association may be the
means of effecting this, as remarked in the ninth corollary of the
fourteenth proposition.
Scholium.
Musical sounds afford, like articulate ones, various instances of
the power of association. It ought to be remarked here also,
that the concords formed from the twelve semi-tones in the
octave, are more in number than the discords; and that the
harshness of these last passes by degrees into the limits of plea
sure, partly from frequent repetition, partly from their asso
ciations with concords.
The doctrine of association may likewise be illustrated by that
of colours. Thus, let the seven primary colours, with their
shades, represent the original sensible pleasures ; then will the
various associated pleasures of human life, supposing that we
enjoyed a state of unmixed happiness, be represented by the
compound vivid colours, which natural bodies, of regular makes,
and strong powers of reflection, exhibit to the eye. White,
which is compounded of all the colours reflected copiously, and
which yet, as far as the eye can discern, bears no resemblance to
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM. 203
any of them, would represent a state of great mental happiness,
ultimately deduced from all the sensible pleasures, and in which,
notwithstanding, the person himself distinguishes no traces of
any of these. And, agreeably to this, light, brightness, and
whiteness, are often put for perfection, purity, and happiness, as
obscurity, blackness, and darkness, are for imperfection and
misery. Besides white, there are other compound colours,
which bear little or no resemblance to any of the primary ones,
as well as many in which some primary colour is evidently
predominant. These represent the several kinds and degrees of
inferior compound pleasures, some of which are, according to
common estimation, quite foreign to the senses, whilst others
are manifestly tinged with pleasant sensations, and their minia
tures.
If the moderate agitations which light causes in bodies, when
it is by them reflected back upon, or transmitted to, other
bodies, be supposed to correspond to pleasant vibrations in the
nervous system, and the greater agitations, which it excites in
those that absorb it, to the violent vibrations in which pain
consists; then the colours of natural bodies, some of which
incline to light, and some to darkness, and that with all the
possible varieties and mixtures of the primary colours, may be con
sidered as the language by which they express that mixture of
pleasures and pains in human life, to which their agitations are
supposed to correspond. And here again we may observe, that
though there are some natural bodies, which absorb and stifle
within themselves almost all the light which they receive, and
which accordingly are dark, black, and unpleasant to the be
holders, yet the greatest part of natural bodies either reflect
lively colours, or reflect some, and transmit others, or transmit
all the colours freely. And this type is also, in part, the thing
typified, inasmuch as agreeable and disagreeable colours make
part of the original pleasures and pains of human life.
Compound tastes may likewise illustrate association, as above
noted under the 12th proposition: for where the number of
ingredients is very great, as in Venice treacle, no one can be
tasted distinctly ; whence the compound appears to bear no
relation to its component parts. It is to be observed farther,
that ingredients which are separately disagreeable, often enter
compounds, whose tastes are highly agreeable. Now in these
cases either the opposite tastes must coalesce into one, which
pleases from the prepollence of agreeable tastes upon the whole,
as soon as the association is cemented sufficiently, or else the
disagreeable tastes must, by frequent repetition, fall within the
limits of pleasure at last ; which seems rather to be the truth.
The similarity of the three instances of this scholium arises
from the analogy of our senses to each other, and to our frame in
general ; which is the sum total of all our senses. And, con
versely, they confirm this analogy.
204 PROPOSITIONS, AND
SECT. II.
OF PROPOSITIONS, AND THE NATURE OF ASSENT.
Prop. LXXXVI.—To explain the Nature of Assent and Dis
sent, and to shew from what Causes they arise.
It appears, from the whole tenor of the last Section, that
assent and dissent, whatever their precise and particular nature
may be, must come under the notion of ideas, being only those very
complex internal feelings, which adhere by association to such
clusters of words as are called propositions in general, or affirma
tions and negations in particular. The same thing is remarked
in the 10th corollary to the 12th proposition.
But in order to penetrate farther into this difficult and im
portant point, I will distinguish assent (and by consequence its
opposite, dissent) into two kinds, rational and practical ; and
define each of these.
Rational assent then to any proposition, may be defined, a
readiness to affirm it to be true, proceeding from a close asso
ciation of the ideas suggested by the proposition, with the idea,
or internal feeling, belonging to the word truth ; or of the terms
of the proposition with the word truth. Rational dissent is the
opposite to this. This assent might be called verbal; but as
every person supposes himself always to have sufficient reason
for such readiness to affirm or deny, I rather choose to call it
rational.
Practical assent is a readiness to act in such manner as the
frequent vivid recurrency of the rational assent disposes us to
act; and practical dissent the contrary.
Practical assent is therefore the natural and necessary con
sequence of rational, when sufficiently impressed. There are,
however, two cautions to be subjoined here, viz. first, that some
propositions, mathematical ones for instance, admit only of a
rational assent, the practical not being applied to them in
common cases. Secondly, that the practical assent is sometimes
generated, and arrives at a high degree of strength, without any
previous rational assent, and by methods that have little or no
connexion with it. Yet still it is in general much influenced by
it, and, conversely, exerts a great influence upon it. All this
will appear more clearly when we come to the instances.
Let us next inquire into the causes of rational and practical
assent, beginning with that given to mathematical conclusions.
Now the cause that a person affirms the truth of the propo
sition twice two is four, is the entire coincidence of the visible or
tangible idea of twice two with that of four, as impressed upon
the mind by various objects. We see every where, that twice
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 205
two and four are only different names for the same impression.
And it is mere association which appropriates the word truth, its
definition, or its internal feeling, to this coincidence.
Where the numbers are so large, that we are not able to form
any distinct visible ideas of them, as when we say that 12 times
12 is equal to 144; a coincidence of the words arising from some
method of reckoning up 12 times 12, so as to conclude with 144,
and resembling the coincidence of words which attends the just-
mentioned coincidence of ideas in the simpler numerical pro
positions, is the foundation of our rational assent. For we often
do, and might always, verify the simplest numerical propositions,
by reckoning up the numbers. The operations of addition,
subtraction, multiplication, division, and extraction of roots,
with all the most complex ones relating to algebraic quantities,
considered as the exponents of numbers, are no more than
methods of producing this coincidence of words, founded upon
and rising above one another. And it is mere association again,
which appropriates the word truth to the coincidence of the
words, or symbols, that denote the numbers.
It is to be remarked, however, that this coincidence of words
is by those who look deeper into things, supposed to be a certain
argument, that the visible ideas of the numbers under con
sideration, as of 12 times 12, and 144, would coincide as much as
the visible ideas of twice two and four, were they as clear and
distinct. And thus the real and absolute truth is said by such
persons to be as great in complex numerical propositions, as in
the simplest. All this agrees with what Mr. Locke has observed
concerning numbers, viz. that their names are necessary in order
to our obtaining distinct ideas of them ; for by distinct ideas he
must be understood to mean proper methods of distinguishing
them from one another, so as to reason justly upon them. He
cannot mean distinct visible ideas.
In geometry there is a like coincidence of lines, angles, spaces,
and solid contents, in order to prove them equal in simple cases.
Afterwards in complex cases, we substitute the terms whereby
equal things are denoted for each other, also the coincidence of
the terms, for that of the visible ideas, except in the new step
advanced in the proposition ; and thus get a new equality,
denoted by a new coincidence of terms. This resembles the
addition of unity to any number, in order to make the next, as
of 1 to 20, in order to make 21. We have no distinct visible
idea, either of 20 or 21 ; but we have of the difference between
them, by fancying to ourselves a confused heap of things sup
posed or called 20 in number ; and then farther fancying 1 to be
added to it. By a like process in geometry we arrive at the
demonstration of the most complex propositions.
The properties of numbers are applied to geometry in many
cases, as when we demonstrate a line or space to be half or
double of any other, or in any other rational proportion to it.
206 PROPOSITIONS, AND
And as in arithmetic words stand for indistinct ideas, in order
to help us to reason upon them as accurately as if they were
distinct ; also cyphers for words, and letters for cyphers, both
for the same purpose; so letters are put for geometrical quan
tities also, and the agreements of the first for those of the last.
And thus we see the foundation upon which the whole doctrine
of quantity is built; for all quantity is expounded either by
number or extension, and their common and sole exponent is
algebra. The coincidence of ideas is the foundation of the
rational assent in simple cases; and that of ideas and terms
together, or of terms alone, in complex ones. This is upon
supposition that the quantities under consideration are to be
proved equal. But if they are to be proved unequal, the want
of coincidence answers the same purpose. If they are in any
numeral ratio, this is only the introduction of a new coincidence.
Thus, if, instead of proving A to be equal to B, we are to prove
it equal to half B, the two parts of B must coincide with each
other, either in idea or terms, and A with one.
And thus it appears, that the use of words is necessary for
geometrical and algebraical reasonings, as well as for arithmetical.
We may see also that association prevails in every part of the
processes hitherto described.
But these are not the only causes of giving rational assent to
mathematical propositions, as this is defined above. The memory
of having once examined and assented to each step of a demon
stration, the authority of an approved writer, &c. are sufficient
to gain our assent, though we understand no more than the
import of the proposition ; nay, even though we do not proceed
so far as this. Now this is mere association again ; this memory,
authority, &c. being, in innumerable instances, associated with
the before-mentioned coincidence of ideas and terms.
But here a new circumstance arises. For memory and
authority are sometimes found to mislead ; and this opposite
coincidence of terms puts the mind into a state of doubt, so
that sometimes truth may recur, and unite itself with the pro
position under consideration, sometimes falsehood, according as
the memory, authority, &c. in all their peculiar circumstances,
have been associated with truth or falsehood. However, the
foundation of assent is still the same. I here describe the fact
only. And yet, since this fact must always follow from the fixed
immutable laws of our frame, the obligation to assent (whatever
be meant by this phrase) must coincide with the fact.
And thus a mathematical proposition, with the rational assent
or dissent arising in the mind, as soon as it is presented to it, is
nothing more than a group of ideas, united by association, i. e.
than a very complex idea, as was affirmed above of propositions
in general. And this idea is not merely the sum of the ideas
belonging to the terms of the proposition, but also includes the
ideas, or internal feelings, whatever they be, which belong to
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 207
equality, coincidence, truth, and in some cases, those of utility,
importance, &c.
For mathematical propositions are, in some cases, attended
with a practical assent, in the proper sense of these words; as
when a person takes this or that method of executing a projected
design, in consequence of some mathematical proposition assented
to from his own examination, or on the authority of others.
Now, that which produces the train of voluntary actions, here
denoting the practical assent, is the frequent recurrency of ideas
of utility and importance. These operate according to the
method laid down in the 20th proposition, i.e. by association; and
though the rational assent be a previous requisite, yet the degree
of the practical assent is proportional to the vividness of these
ideas ; and in most cases they strengthen the rational assent by
a reflex operation.
Propositions concerning natural bodies are of two kinds,
vulgar and scientifical. Of the first kind are, that milk is white,
gold yellow, that a dog barks, Sec. These are evidently nothing
but forming the present complex idea belonging to material
objects into a proposition, or adding some of its common asso
ciates, so as to make it more complex. There is scarce room for
dissent in such propositions, they being all taken from common
appearances. Or, if any doubt should arise, the matter must be
considered scientifically. The assent given to these propositions
arises from the associations of the terms, as well as of the ideas
denoted by them.
In scientifical propositions concerning natural bodies, a defi
nition is made, as of gold from its properties, suppose its colour,
and specific gravity, and another property or power joined to
them, as a constant or common associate. Thus gold is said to
be ductile, fixed, or soluble in aqua regia. Now to persons who
have made the proper experiments a sufficient number of times,
these words suggest the ideas which occur in those experiments,
and, conversely, are suggested by them, in the same manner
as the vulgar propositions above-mentioned suggest and are
suggested by common appearances. But then, if they be scien
tifical persons, their readiness to affirm that gold is soluble in
aqua regia universally, arises also from the experiments of others,
and from their own and others' observations on the constancy
and tenor of nature. They know, that the colour, and specific
gravity, or almost any two or three remarkable qualities of any
natural body, infer the rest, being never found without them.
This is a general truth ; and as these general terms are observed
to coincide, in fact, in a great variety of instances, so they
coincide at once in the imagination, when applied to gold, or
any other natural body, in particular. The coincidence of
general terms is also observed to infer that of the particular
cases in many instances, besides those of natural bodies ; and
this unites the subject and predicate of the proposition, gold is
208 PROPOSITIONS, AND
soluble in aqua regia, farther in those who penetrate still deeper
into abstract speculations. And hence we may see, as before,
First, That terms or words are absolutely necessary to the art
of reasoning: Secondly, That our assent is here also, in every
step of the process, deducible from association.
The propositions formed concerning natural bodies are often
attended with a high degree of practical assent, arising chiefly
from some supposed utility and importance, and which is no
ways proportionable to the foregoing; or other such like allowed
causes of rational assent. And in some cases the practical assent
f takes place before the rational. But then, after some time the
rational assent is generated and cemented most firmly by the
prevalence of the practical. This process is particularly obser
vable in the regards paid to medicines, i. e. in the rational and
practical assent to the propositions concerning their virtues.
It is to be observed, that children, novices, unlearned persons,
&c. give, in many cases, a practical assent upon a single instance;
and that this arises from the first and simplest of the associations
here considered. The influence of the practical assent over the
rational arises plainly from their being joined together in so
many cases. The vividness of the ideas arising from the sup
posed utility, importance, &c. does also unite the subject and
predicate sooner and closer, agreeably to what has been observed
in the general account of association.
The evidences for past facts are a man's own memory, and the
authority of others. These are the usual associates of true past
facts, under proper restrictions, and therefore beget the readiness
to aflirm a past fact to be true, *. e. the rational assent. The
integrity and knowledge of the witnesses, being the principal
restriction, or requisite, in the accounts of past facts, become
principal associates to the assent to them; and the contrary
qualities to dissent.
If it be asked, how a narration of an event supposed to be
certainly true, supposed doubtful, or supposed entirely fictitious,
differs in its effect upon the mind, in the three circumstances
here alleged, the words being the same in each, I answer, first,
in having the terms true, doubtful, and fictitious, with a variety
of usual associates to these, and the corresponding internal feel
ings of respect, anxiety, dislike, &c. connected with them respec
tively ; whence the whole effects, exerted by each upon the
mind, will differ considerably from one another. Secondly, If the
event be of an interesting nature, as a great advantage accruing,
the death of a near friend, the affecting related ideas will recur
oftener, and by so recurring agitate the mind more, in proportion
to the supposed truth of the event. And it confirms this, that
the frequent recurrency of an interesting event, supposed doubt
ful, or even fictitious, does, by degrees, make it appear bike a
real one, as in reveries, reading romances, seeing plays, &c. This
affection of mind may be called the practical assent to past facts ;
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 209
and it frequently draws after it the rational, as in the other in
stances above alleged.
The evidence for future facts is of the same kind with that for
the propositions concerning natural bodies, being like it, taken
from induction and analogy. This is the cause of the rational
assent. The practical depends upon the recurrency of the ideas,
and the degree of agitation produced by them in the mind.
Hence reflection makes the practical assent grow for a long time
after the rational is arisen to its height; or if the practical arise
without the rational, in any considerable degree, which is often
the case, it will generate the rational. Thus the sanguine are
apt to believe and assert what they hope, and the timorous what
they fear.
There are many speculative abstracted propositions in logic,
metaphysics, ethics, controversial divinity, &c. the evidence for
which is the coincidence or analogy of the abstract terms, in
certain particular applications of them, or as considered in their
grammatical relations. This causes the rational assent. As to
the practical assent or dissent, it arises from the ideas of import
ance, reverence, piety, duty, ambition, jealousy, envy, self-
interest, &c. which intermix themselves in these subjects, and,
by doing so, in some cases add great strength to the rational
assent ; in others destroy it, and convert it into its opposite.
And thus it appears, that rational assent has different causes
in propositions of different kinds, and practical likewise ; that the
causes of rational are also different from those of practical ; that
there is, however, a great affinity, and general resemblance, in
all the causes ; that rational and practical assent exert a per
petual reciprocal effect upon one another ; and consequently,
that the ideas belonging to assent and dissent, and their equiva
lents and relatives, are highly complex ones, unless in the cases
of very simple propositions, such as mathematical ones. For
besides the coincidence of ideas and terms, they include, in other
cases, ideas of utility, importance, respect, disrespect, ridicule,
religious affections, hope, fear, &c. and bear some gross general
proportion to the vividness of these ideas.
Cor. I. When a person says, video meliora proboque, deteriora
sequor; it shews that the rational and practical assent are at
variance, that they have opposite causes, and that neither of
these has yet destroyed the other.
Cor. II. The rational and practical faith in religious matters
are excellent means of begetting each other.
Cor. III. Vicious men, i. e. all persons who want practical
faith, must be prejudiced against the historical and other rational
evidences in favour of revealed religion.
Cor. IV. It is impossible any person should be so sceptical,
as not to have the complex ideas denoted by assent and dissent
associated with a great variety of propositions, in the same
manner, as in other persons; just as he must have the same
P
PROPOSITIONS, AND
ideas in general affixed to the words of his native language, as
other men have. A pretended sceptic is therefore no more than
a person who varies from the common usage in his application of
a certain set of words, viz. truth, certainty, assent, dissent, &c.
Cor. V. As there is a foundation for unity amongst mankind
in the use and application of words, so there is for an unity in
the assent, or complex ideas belonging to propositions; and a
philosophical language, or any other method of bringing about
the first unity, would much conduce to this. A careful exami
nation of things, of the world natural, the human mind, the
Scriptures, would conduce much also. But candour, simplicity,
and an humble sense of our own ignorance, which may be called
a religious or christian scepticism, is the principal requisite, and
that without which this part of the confusion at Babel can never
be remedied. When religion has equally and fully absorbed
different persons, so that God is, in respect of them, all in all, as
far as the present condition of mortality will permit, their prac
tical assent must be the same ; and therefore their rational cannot
differ long or widely.
The ideas and internal feelings which arise in the mind, from
words and propositions, may be compared to, and illustrated
by, those which the appearances of different persons excite.
Suppose two persons, A and B, to go together into a crowd, and
there each of them to see a variety of persons whom he knew in
different degrees, as well as many utter strangers. A would not
have the same ideas and associations raised in him from viewing
the several faces, dresses, &c. of the persons in the crowd, as B,
partly from his having a different knowledge of, and acquaintance
with them, partly from different predispositions to approve and
disapprove. But let A and B become equally acquainted with
them, and acquire, by education and association, the same pre
dispositions of mind, and then they will at last make the same
judgment of each of the persons whom they see.
Cor. VI. Religious controversies concerning abstract propo
sitions arise generally from the different degrees of respect paid
to terms and phrases, which conduce little or nothing to the
generation of practical faith, or of love to God, and trust in Him
through Christ.
Prop. LXXXVII.—To deduce Rules for the Ascertainment of
Truth, and Advancement of Knowledge, from the Mathematical
Methods of considering Quantity.
This is done in the doctrine of chances, with respect to the
events there considered. And though we seldom have such
precise data, in mixed sciences, as are there assumed, yet there
are two remarks, of very general use and application, deducible
from the doctrine of chances.
Thus, first, If the evidences brought for any proposition,
THE NATURE OF ASSENT.
fact, &c. be dependent on each other, so that the first is required
to support the second, the second to support the third, &c.
i. e. if a failure of any one of the evidences renders all the rest
of no value, the separate probability of each evidence must be
very great, in order to make the proposition credible ; and this
holds so much the more, as the dependent evidences are more
numerous. For instance, if the value of each evidence be - , and
a
the number of evidences be in n, then will the resulting proba
bility be — . I here suppose absolute certainty to be denoted
by 1 ; and consequently, that a can never be less than 1. Now
it is evident, that — decreases with every increase both of a
and n. a
Secondly, If the evidences brought for any proposition, fact,
&c. be independent on each other, i. e. if they be not necessary
to support each other, but concur, and can, each of them, when
established upon its own proper evidences, be applied directly to
establish the proposition, fact, &c. in question, the deficiency in
the probability of each must be very great, in order to render
the proposition perceptibly doubtful; and this holds so much
the more, as the evidences are more numerous. For instance,
if the evidences be all equal, and the common deficiency in each
be - , if also the number of evidences be n as before, the defi-
. a . ... J
ciency of the resulting probability will be no more than —, which
is practically nothing, where a and n are considerable. Thus if a
and n be each equal to 10, -= will be ... ...... or only one
1 a 10,000,000,000 J
in ten thousand millions; a deficiency from certainty, which is
utterly imperceptible to the human mind.
It is indeed evident, without having recourse to the doctrine
of chances, that the dependency of evidences makes the resulting
probability weak, their independency strong. Thus a report
passing from one original author through a variety of successive
hands loses much of its credibility, and one attested by a variety
of original witnesses gains, in both cases, according to the
number of successive reporters, and original witnesses, though
by no means proportionably thereto. This is the common judg
ment of mankind, verified by observation and experience. But
the mathematical method of considering these things is much
more precise and satisfactory, and differs from the common one,
just as the judgment made of the degrees of heat by the thermo
meter does from that made by the hand.
We may thus also see in a shorter and simpler way that the
resulting probability may be sufficiently strong in dependent
evidences, and of little value in independent ones, according as
p 2
PROPOSITIONS, AND
the separate probability of each evidence is greater or less.
Thus the principal facts of ancient history are not less probable
practically now, than ten or fifteen centuries ago, nor less so
then, than in the times immediately succeeding; because the
diminution of evidence in each century is imperceptible. For,
if - be equal to 1, — will be equal to 1 also; and if the defi-
a 1 a 1
ciency of - from 1 be extremely small, that of — will be ex
tremely small also, unless » be extremely great. And for the
same reason a large number of weak arguments proves little;
for - the deficiency of each argument, being extremely great,
1 a
-, the resulting deficiency of independent evidences, will be
extremely great also.
It appears likewise, that the inequality of the separate evi
dences does not much affect this reasoning. In like manner, if
the number of evidences, dependent or independent, be great, we
may make great concessions as to the separate values of each.
Again, a strong evidence in dependent ones can add nothing,
but must weaken a little ; and, after a point is well settled by a
number of independent ones, all that come afterwards are useless,
because they can do no more than remove the imperceptible
remaining deficiency, &c. And it will be of great use to pursue
these and such like deductions, both mathematically, and by
applying them to proper instances selected from the sciences,
and from common life, in order to remove certain prejudices,
which the use of general terms, and ways of speaking-, with
the various associations adhering to them, is apt to introduce
and fix upon the mind. It cannot but assist us in the art
of reasoning, thus to take to pieces, recompose, and ascertain
our evidences.
If it be asked, upon what authority absolute certainty is repre
sented by unity, and the several degrees of probability by fractions
less than unity, in the doctrine of chances ? also, upon what
authority the reasoning used in that doctrine is transferred to
other subjects, and made general, as here proposed ? I answer,
that no person who weighs these matters carefully, can avoid
giving his assent; and that this precludes all objections. No
sceptic would, in fact, be so absurd as to lay two to one, where
the doctrine of chances determines the probability to be equal
on each side; and therefore we may be sure, that he gives a
practical assent at least to the doctrine of chances.
M. De Moivre has shewn, that where the causes of the
happening of an event bear a fixed ratio to those of its failure,
the happenings must bear nearly the same ratio to the failures, if
the number of trials be sufficient; and that the last ratio approaches
to the first indefinitely, as the number of trials increases. This
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 213
may be considered as an elegant method of accounting for that
order and proportion, which we every where see in the phaenomena
of nature. The determinate shapes, sizes, and mutual actions of
the constituent particles of matter, fix the ratios between the
causes for the happenings, and the failures ; and therefore it is
highly probable, and even necessary, as one may say, that the
happenings and failures should perpetually recur in the same
ratio to each other nearly, while the circumstances are the same.
When the circumstances are altered, then new causes take place ;
and consequently there must be a new, but fixed ratio, between
the happenings and the failures. Let the first circumstances be
called Ay the new ones B. If now the supposition be made so
general, as equally to take in both A and B, the ratio of the
happenings and failures will not be such as either A or B re
quired. But still it will tend to a preciseness, just as they did,
since the sum of the causes of the happenings must bear a fixed
ratio to the Slim of the causes of the failures.
An ingenious friend has communicated to me a solution of the
inverse problem, in which he has shewn what the expectation is,
when an event has happened p times, and failed q times, that
the original ratio of the causes for the happening or failing of an
event should deviate in any given degree from that of p to q.
And it appears from this solution, that where the number of trials
is very great, the deviation must be inconsiderable ; which shews
that we may hope to determine the proportions, and, by degrees,
the whole nature, of unknown causes, by a sufficient observation
of their effects.
The inferences here drawn from these two problems are evi
dent to attentive persons, in a gross general way, from common
methods of reasoning.
Let us, in the next place, consider the Newtonian differential
method, and compare it with that of arguing from experiments
and observations, by induction and analogy. This differential
method teaches, having a certain number of the ordinates of any
unknown curve given with the points of the absciss on which
they stand, to find out such a general law for this curve, i. e.
such an equation expressing the relation of an ordinate and
absciss in all magnitudes of the absciss, as will suit the ordinates
and points of the absciss given, in the unknown curve under
consideration. Now here we may suppose the given ordinates
standing upon given points to be analogous to effects, or the
results of various experiments in given circumstances, the absciss
analogous to all possible circumstances, and the equation afforded
by the differential method to that law of action, which, being
supposed to take place in the given circumstances, produces the
given effects. And as the use of the differential method is to
find the lengths of ordinates not given, standing upon points of
the absciss that are given, by means of the equation, so the
Use of attempts to make general conclusions by induction and
PROPOSITIONS, AND
analogy, from particular effects or phaenomena, in different given
circumstances, by applying the general law conclusion to these
circumstances.
This parallel is the more pertinent and instructive, inasmuch
as the mathematical conclusion drawn by the differential method,
though formed in a way that is strictly just, and so as to have
the greatest possible probability in its favour, is, however, liable
to the same uncertainties, both in kind and degree, as the
general maxims of natural philosophy drawn from natural history,
experiments, &c.
If many ordinates be given ; if the distances of the points of
the absciss, on which they stand, be equal and small ; if the
ordinate required lie amongst them, or near them ; and if there
be reason to think, that the curve itself is formed according to
some simple, though unknown law ; then may we conclude, that
the new ordinate, determined by the equation, does not vary far
from the truth. And if the resulting equation be simple, and
always the same, from whatever given ordinates it be extracted,
there is the greatest reason to think this to be the real original
law or equation of the curve ; and consequently that all its points
and properties may be determined with perfect exactness by
means of it : whereas, if the given ordinates be few, their dis
tances great or unequal, the ordinate required considerably
distant from many or most of them, the unknown curve be a line
drawn at hazard, and the resulting equation different, where
different ordinates are given, though their number be the same,
there will be little probability of determining the new ordinate
with exactness ; however, still the differential method affords us
the greatest probability which the data permit in such cases.
In like manner, if the experiments or observations be many,
their circumstances nearly related to each other, and in a regular
series, the circumstances of the effect to be investigated nearly
related to them ; also, if the real cause may be supposed to pro
duce these effects, by the varieties of some simple law, the
method of induction and analogy will carry great probability
with it. And if the general conclusion or law be simple, and
always the same, from whatever phaenomena it be deduced, such
as the three laws- of nature, the doctrines of gravitation, and of
the different refrangibility of light ; or to go still higher, by
taking a mathematical instance, the law for finding the coefficients
of the integral powers of a binomial, deduced from mere trials in
various powers ; there can scarce remain any doubt, but that we
are in possession of the true law inquired after, so as to be able
to predict with certainty, in all cases where we are masters of the
method of computation, or applying it ; and have no reason to
suspect, that other unknown laws interfere. But, if the given
phaenomena be few, their circumstances very different from each
other, and from those of the effect to be predicted ; if there be
reason to suppose, that many causes concur in the producing
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 215
these phaenomena, so that the law of their production must be
very complex ; if a new hypothesis be required to account for
every new combination of these phaenomena ; or, at least, one
that differs considerably from itself; the best hypothesis which
we can form, i. e. the hypothesis which is most conformable to
all the phaenomena, will amount to no more than an uncertain
conjecture ; and yet still it ought to be preferred to all others,
as being the best that we can form.
That instantaneous and necessary coalescence of ideas, which
makes intuitive evidence, may be considered as the highest kind
of induction, and as amounting to a perfect coincidence of the
effect concluded with those from which it is concluded. This
takes place only in mathematics. Thus we infer, that 2 and 2
make 4, only from prior instances of having actually perceived
this, and from the necessary coincidence of all these instances
with all other possible ones of 2 and 2. Mathematical demon
strations are made up of a number of these, as was observed
above.
Where the instances from whence the induction is made are
alike, as far as we know, to that under consideration, at least in
all things that affect the present inquiry, it affords the highest
probability, and may be termed induction, in the proper sense
of the word. Thus we infer, that the bread before us is nutritive
and wholesome, because its smell, taste, ingredients, manner of
composition, &c. are the same as those of other bread, which
has often before been experienced to be so.
But, if the instance under consideration be in some respects
like the foregoing ones, in others not, this kind of proof is gene
rally termed one taken from analogy. Thus, if we argue from
the use and action of the stomach in one animal to those in ano
ther, supposed to be unknown, there will be a probable hazard
of being mistaken, proportional in general to the known differ
ence of the two animals, as well as a probable evidence for the
truth of part, at least, of what is advanced, proportional to the
general resemblance of the two animals. But if, upon examina
tion, the stomach, way of feeding, &c. of the second animal
should be found, to sense, the same as in the first, the analogy
might be considered as an induction properly so called, at least
as approaching to it ; for precise limits cannot be fixed here. If
the second animal be of the same species, also of the same age,
sex, &c. with the first, the induction becomes perpetually of a
higher and a higher order, approaching more and more to the
coincidence, which obtains in mathematical evidences, and yet
never being able entirely to arrive at it. But then the difference,
being only an infinitesimal fraction, as it were, becomes nothing
to all practical purposes whatsoever. And if a man considers
farther, that it would be hard to find a demonstration, that he
does not mistake the plainest truths ; this lessens the difference
theoretically also.
216 PROPOSITIONS, AND
It is often in our power to obtain an analogy where we cannot
have an induction ; in which case reasoning from analogy ought
to be admitted; however, with all that uncertainty which properly
belongs to it, considered as more or less distant from induction,
as built upon more or fewer dependent or independent evidences,
&c. Analogy may also, in all cases, be made use of as a guide
to the invention. But coincidence in mathematical matters, and
induction in others, wherever they can be had, must be sought
for as the only certain tests of truth. However, induction seems
to be a very sufficient evidence in some mathematical points,
affording at least as much evidence there as in natural philo
sophy; and may be safely relied on in perplexed cases, such as
complex series, till satisfactory demonstrations can be had.
The analogous natures of all the things about us are a great
assistance in decyphering their properties, powers, laws, &c.
inasmuch as what is minute or obscure in one may be explained
and illustrated by the analogous particular in another, where it
is large and clear. And thus all things become comments on
each other in an endless reciprocation.
When there are various arguments for the same thing taken
from induction or analogy, they may all be considered as sup
porting one another in the same manner as independent
evidences. Thus, if it could be shewed, that the human under
standing is entirely dependent on association, (as is remarked in
this and the last section,) the many analogies and connexions
between the understanding and affections, as these terms are
commonly understood and contradistinguished by writers, would
make it very probable, that association presides in the same
manner in the generation of the affections; and vice versd. And
the more analogies, and mutual connexions, between the under
standing and affections, were produced, so many more independent
or concurrent evidences would there be for this prevalence of
association in one, admitting it in the other. But, if now it be
shewn farther, that the understanding and affections are not
really distinct things, but only different names, which we give to
the same kind of motions in the nervous system, on account of
a difference in degree, and other differences which it would be
tedious here to enumerate, but which make no difference in
respect of the power of association, then all the arguments from
analogy are transformed into one of induction ; which, however,
is stronger than the united force of them all. For now it may
be shewed, that association must prevail in each motion in the
brain, by which affection is expounded, from a large induction
of particulars, in which it prevails in the generation of ideas, or
of the motions by which they are expounded, and which we
suppose to be proved to be of the same kind with those that
expound the affections. Thus also inductions may be taken
from the smell and taste of bread, to prove it wholesome ; which
would both be transformed into one simple argument stronger
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 217
than both, could we see the internal constitution of the small
parts of the bread, from whence its smell, and taste, and whole-
someness, are all derived. Thus, again, all the arguments of in
duction for the manner of extracting the square root in numbers
vauish into the single demonstrative proof, as soon as this is
produced. And the great business in all branches of knowledge
is thus to reduce, unite, and simplify our evidences ; so as that
the one resulting proof, by being of a higher order, shall be
more than equal in force to all the concurrent ones of the inferior
orders.
Having now considered in what manner the doctrine of
chances, and the Newtonian differential method, may serve to
shew in general the value of dependent and independent or
concurrent evidences, and the probability of general conclusions
formed by induction and analogy ; let us next inquire by what
means we are to form these general conclusions, and discover
their evidences. Now the different methods of doing this may
be said to resemble respectively the rule of false in common
arithmetic ; the algebraic methods of bringing the unknown
quantity into an equation, under a form capable of all the
algebraic operations, addition, subtraction, &c. ; the algebraic
methods of finding the roots of equations of the higher orders
by approximation ; and the art of decyphering : all which four
methods bear also a considerable resemblance to each other.
I will consider them in order, and endeavour to shew how
analogous methods may be introduced into the sciences in
general to advantage.
First, then, As according to the rule of false, the arithmetician
supposes a certain number to be that which is sought for ; treats
it as if it was that ; and finding the deficiency or overplus in the
conclusion, rectifies the error of his first position by a propor
tional addition or subtraction, and thus solves the problem ; so
it is useful in inquiries of all kinds to try all such suppositions as
occur with any appearance of probability, to endeavour to deduce
the real phaenomena from them ; and if they do not answer in
some tolerable measure, to reject them at once ; or if they do,
to add, expunge, correct, and improve, till we have brought the
hypothesis as near as we can to an agreement with nature. After
this it must be left to be farther corrected and improved, or
entirely disproved, by the light and evidence reflected upon it
from the contiguous, and even, in some measure, from the remote
branches of other sciences.
Were this method commonly used, we might soon expect a
great advancement in the sciences. It would much abate that
unreasonable fondness, which those who make few or no distinct
hypotheses, have for such confused ones as occur accidentally to
their imaginations, and recur afterwards by association. For the
ideas, words, and reasonings, belonging to the favourite hypo
thesis, by recurring, and being much agitated in the brain, heat
218 PROPOSITIONS, AND
it, unite with each other, and so coalesce in the same manner, as
genuine truths do from induction and analogy. Verbal and
grammatical analogies and coincidences are advanced into real
ones ; and the words which pass often over the ear, in the form
of subject and predicate, are from the influence of other associa
tions made to adhere together insensibly, like subjects and
/ predicates, that have a natural connexion. It is in vain to bid
an inquirer form no hypothesis. Every phaenomenon will
suggest something of this kind : and, if he do not take care
to state such as occur fully and fairly, and adjust them one to
another, he may entertain a confused inconsistent mixture of
all, of fictitious and real, possible and impossible : and become
so persuaded of it, as that counter-associations shall not be able
to break the unnatural bond. But he that forms hypotheses
from the first, and tries them by the facts, soon rejects the most
unlikely ones; and, being freed from these, is better qualified
for the examination of those that are probable. He will also
confute his own positions so often, as to fluctuate in equilibrio,
in respect of prejudices, and so be at perfect liberty to follow
the strongest evidences.
In like manner, the frequent attempts to make an hypothesis
that shall suit the phaenomena, must improve a man in the
method of doing this ; and beget in him by degrees an imperfect
practical art, just as algebraists and decypherers, that are much
versed in practice, are possessed of innumerable subordinate
artifices, besides the principal general ones, that are taught by
the established rules of their arts ; and these, though of the
greatest use to themselves, can scarce be explained or com
municated to others. These artifices may properly be referred
to the head of factitious sagacity, being the result of experience,
and of impressions often repeated, with small variations from
the general resemblance.
Lastly, The frequent making of hypotheses, and arguing
from them synthetically, according to the several variations and
combinations of which they are capable, would suggest numerous
phaenomena, that otherwise escape notice, and lead to experi-
menta cruris, not only in respect of the hypothesis under con
sideration, but of many others. The variations and combinations
just mentioned suggest things to the invention, which the imagi
nation unassisted is far unequal to; just as it would be impossible
for a man to write down all the changes upon eight bells, unless
he had some method to direct him.
But this method of making definite hypotheses, and trying
them, is far too laborious and mortifying for us to hope that
inquirers will in general pursue it. It would be of great use
to such as intend to pursue it, to make hypotheses for the
phaenomena, whose theories are well ascertained ; such as those
of the circulation of the blood, of the pressure of the air, of the
different refrangibility of the rays of light, &c. and see how they
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 219
are gradually compelled into the right road, even from wrong
suppositions fairly compared with the phaenomena. This would
The second of the four methods proposed is, that of bringing
the unknown quantity to an equation, and putting it into a
form susceptible of all the algebraic operations. Now to this
answers, in philosophy, the art of giving names, expressing
nothing definite, as to manner, quantity, &c. and then inserting
these names, or indefinite terms, in all the enunciations of the
phaenomena, to see whether, from a comparison of these enun
ciations with each other, where the terms are used in the greatest
latitude, some restrictions, something definite in manner, degree,
or mutual relation, will not result. Things that are quite un
known have often fixed relations to one another, and sometimes
relations to things known, which, though not determinable with
certainty and precision, may yet be determined in some probable
manner, or within certain limits. Now as in algebra it is im
possible to express the relation of the unknown quantity to
other quantities known or unknown, till it has a symbol assigned
to it of the same kind with those that denote the others ; so in
philosophy we must give names to unknown quantities, qualities,
causes, &c. not in order to rest in them, as the Aristotelians did,
but to have a fixed expression, under which to treasure up all
that can be known of the unknown cause, &c. in the imagination
and memory, or in writing for future inquirers.
But then it is necessary, for the same reasons, that these terms
should have no more of secondary ideas from prior associations,
than the terms x and y in algebra.—Whence, if we use old terms
excluding the old associations, the reader should be made aware
of this at first, and incidentally reminded of it afterwards. Sir
Isaac Newton has used the words ccther, attraction, and some
others, in this way, not resting in them, but enumerating a great
variety of phaenomena ; from the due comparison of which with
each other, and with such as farther observation and experiments
shall suggest, their laws and action will, perhaps, be discovered
hereafter ; so that we may be able to predict the phaenomena.
There is also an instance of the proper manner of reasoning
concerning the knowable relations of unknown things in Mr. Mede's
Claris Apocalyptica.
The third method is that of approximating to the roots of
equations. Here a first position is obtained, which, though not
accurate, approaches, however, to the truth. From this, applied
to the equations, a second position is deduced, which approaches
nearer to the truth than the first ; from the second, a third, &c.
till the analyst obtains the true root, or such an approximation
as is practically equivalent, every preceding discovery being made
the foundation for a subsequent one, and the equation resolving
itself, as it were, gradually. Now this is indeed the way, in
method, and beget the factitious
sagacity above-mentioned.
220 PROPOSITIONS, AND
which 'all advances in science are carried on ; and scientific per
sons are in general aware, that it is and must be so. However,
I thought it not improper to illustrate this general process by a
parallel taken from algebra, in which there is great exactness and
beauty. Besides, writers do not often dispose their arguments
and approximations in this way, though for want of it they lose
much of their clearness and force ; and, where the writer does
this, the reader is frequently apt to overlook the order of proofs
and positions.
Sir Isaac Newton's Optics, Chronology, and Comment on
Daniel, abound with instances to this purpose: and it is probable,
that his great abilities and practice in algebraic investigations led
him to it insensibly. In his Chronology he first shews in gross,
that the technical chronology of the ancient Greeks led them to
carry their authorities higher than the truth ; and then, that the
time of the Sesostris mentioned by the Greek historians was near
that of Sesac mentioned in the Old Testament; whence it follows,
that these two persons were the same ; and consequently, that
the exact time of Sesostris's expedition may now be fixed by the
Old Testament. And now, having two points absolutely fixed,
viz. the expeditions of Sesostris and Xerxes, he fixes all the
most remarkable intermediate events; and these being also fixed,
he goes on to the less remarkable ones in the Greek history.
And the chronology of the Greeks being rectified, he makes use
of it to rectify the cotemporary affairs of the Egyptians, Assyrians,
Babylonians, Medes, and Persians, making use of the preceding
step every where, for the determination of the subsequent one.
He does also, in many cases, cast light and evidence back from
the subsequent ones upon the precedent. But the other is his
own order of proof, and ought to be that in which those who call
his chronology in question should proceed to inquire into it.
The fourth and last method is that used by decypherers, in
investigating words written in unknown characters, or in known
ones substituted for one another, according to secret and complex
laws. The particular methods by which this is done are only
known to those who study and practise this art: however, it
is manifest in general, that it is an algebra of its own kind, and
that it bears a great resemblance to the three foregoing methods;
also, that it may be said, with justness and propriety in general,
that philosophy is the art of decyphering the mysteries of nature ;
that criticism bears an obvious relation to decyphering ; and that
every theory which can explain all the phaenomena, has all the
same evidence in its favour, that it is possible the key of a cypher
can have from its explaining that cypher. And if the cause
assigned by the theory have also its real existence proved, it
may be compared to the explanation of a cypher ; which
may be verified by the evidence of the person who writes in
that cypher.
These speculations may seem uncouth to those who are not
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 221
conversant in mathematical inquiries ; but to me they appear to
cast light and evidence upon the methods of pursuing knowledge
in other matters, to sharpen the natural sagacity, and to furnish
loci for invention. It appears also not impossible, that future
generations should put all kinds of evidences and inquiries into
mathematical forms; and, as it were, reduce Aristotle's ten
Categories, and Bishop Wilkins's forty Summa Genera, to the
head of quantity alone, so as to make mathematics and logic,
natural history and civil history, natural philosophy and philo
sophy of all other kinds, coincide omtu ex parte.
I will add two more remarks relating to the present subject.
First, then, as in many mechanical problems, which fall strictly
under the consideration of mathematicians, the quantities con
sidered depend on several others, so as to increase in the simple
or compound, direct or inverse, ratio of several others, and not to
be greatest or least, when one or two of these are so, but when
the factum of the proper powers of all is so; so throughout
natural philosophy, in physic, in the analysis of the mind, &c., it
is necessary to inquire, as carefully as we can, upon how many
considerable causes each effect depends; also whether the ratios
be simple or compound, direct or inverse. For though it will
seldom happen, that one can bring the practical problems that
occur in real life, to an exact estimate in this way, yet one may
avoid part of that uncertainty and confusion, to which persons
who take things merely in the gross are liable. Or, in other
words, it is better in every thing to have probable or tolerable
limits for the data, with a regular method of computation, or
even an approximation thereto, than to have only such gross and
general conceptions, as result from the more or less frequent
recurrency of impressions, even though they be somewhat im
proved by natural or acquired sagacity, arising, in a kind of
implicit indefinite way, from experience.
Secondly, it seems to me, that the rays of light may be con
sidered as a kind of fluxions in respect of the biggest component
particles of matter ; I mean those upon which Sir Isaac Newton
supposes the colours of natural bodies, and the changes effected
in chemical processes, to depend. For, as the increments of
variable quantities, when diminished so as to bear no finite ratio
to the quantities of which they are the increments, shew, in a
simple way, the velocities with which these quantities are
increased ; and so give rise to the determination of fluxions from
fluents, and fluents from fluxions, and to all the applications of
these determinations to real quantities, all which is entirely
grounded upon the supposition, that the fluxions are not incre
ments, but relative nothings ; so, since the rays of light are so
small in respect of the biggest component particles, as to be
relatively and practically nothing in respect of them, to bear no
relation to any of them, all the differences observable in the
actions of light upon these particles, and of these particles upon
PROPOSITIONS, AND
light, will'depend purely upon the differences of these particles in
respect of one another; it not being possible that any part of
them should arise from the comparative magnitude of light,
which is equally nothing in respect of them all. And thus it
seems, that optics and chemistry will, at last, become a master-
key for unlocking the mysteries in the constitution of natural
bodies, according to the method recommended by Sir Isaac
Newton.
Let A, B, C, be three particles, whose magnitude are 8, 2,
and 1, respectively. It is evident, that the mutual influences
between A and C, B and C, cannot correspond entirely to the
ratio which A and B bear to each other, because C bears a
different ratio to A from that which it bears to B; and this
difference of ratios must have its share in the effects of A and B
upon C : whereas had C been a particle of light, it would have
been equally nothing in respect both of A and B; and so the
mutual influences between A and C, B and C, would entirely
correspond to the difference between A and B, and decypher it.
Thus the particles of light, by being infinitely smaller than the
biggest component ones of natural bodies, may become a kind of
communis norma, whereby to measure their active powers.
Prop. LXXXVIII.—To make ageneralApplication ofthe Theory
of this and the foregoing Section, to the several branches of
Science.
All the sciences, knowledge of all kinds, may be reduced to
the seven general heads following, when they are understood in
the latitude here expressed.
First, Philology, or the knowledge of words, and their signi
fications. It comprehends under it the arts of grammar and
criticism. Rhetoric and poetry may be referred to it.
Secondly, Mathematics, or the doctrine of quantity. It may
be divided into three branches ; viz. arithmetic, which makes use
of numbers as the exponents of quantity ; geometry, which uses
figures for the same purpose ; and algebra, which comprehends
both these, and whose symbols are accordingly so general, as to
represent the symbols of the two foregoing parts.
Thirdly, Logic, or the art of using words, considered as
symbols, for making discoveries in all the branches of knowledge.
It presupposes philology to a certain degree ; and must evidently,
in the view here given of it, receive great illustrations from
mathematics, which is the art of making discoveries in the single
category of quantity, by means of the simplest kinds of symbols.
Fourthly, Natural history, or regular and well-digested accounts
of the phaenomena of the natural world. It may be distributed
into six parts, i. e. into the natural histories of animals, plants,
minerals, the earth considered as a terraqueous globe, the atmo
sphere, and the heavenly bodies.
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 223
Fifthly, Civil history, or regular accounts of the transactions of
the world politic. To this head must be referred that part of
geography which treats of the present manners, customs, laws,
religion, &c. of the several nations of the world.
Sixthly, Natural philosophy, or the application of the arts of
mathematics and logic to the phaenomena of natural and civil
history communicated to us by means of our previous skill in
philology, in order to decypher the laws by which the external
world is governed, and thereby to predict or produce such
phaenomena, as we are interested in. Its parts are mechanics,
hydrostatics, pneumatics, optics, astronomy, chemistry, the
theories of the several manual arts and trades, medicine and
psychology, or the theory of the human mind, with that of the
intellectual principles of brute animals.
Seventhly, Religion, which might also be called divine philo
sophy. This requires the application of all the foregoing branches
of knowledge to each other in an endless reciprocation, in order
to discover the nature of the invisible world, of God, of good
and evil spirits, and of the future state, which commences at
death, with all the duties that result from these considerations.
The arts of ethics, and politics, are to be referred to this head.
For, though these arts are supposed to teach individuals, and
bodies politic, how to arrive at their summum bonum in the
present world, yet, since the rules given for this purpose either
are or ought to be the same with those which teach mankind
how to secure a happy futurity, it is plain, that these arts are
included within the precepts of religion.
All these branches of knowledge are very much involved in
each other; so that it is impossible to make any considerable
progress in any one, without the assistance of most or all the
rest. However, each has also an independent part, which being
laid down as a foundation, we may proceed to improve it by the-
light afforded from the independent parts of the other branches.
I will here subjoin a few hints concerning the proper manner of
proceeding in each branch.
Of Philology.
The rudiments of the native language are learnt in infancy, by
the repeated impressions of the sounds, at the same time that
the things signified are presented to the senses, as has been
already explained. Words standing for intellectual things, par
ticles, &c., are decyphered by their connexion with other words,
by their making parts of sentences, whose whole import is
known. Grammatical analogy and derivation do also, in many
cases, discover the import of words. And many words may be
explained by definitions. 'Where these several ways concur, the
sense is soon learnt, and steadily fixed ; where they oppose each
other, confusion arises for a time, but the strongest authority
prevails at last. Translations and dictionaries explain the words
PROPOSITIONS, AND
of unknown languages by those of known ones. Afterwards we
decypher by the context, deduce the sense from analogy, &c.
These last methods reflect authority upon the translations and
dictionaries, where they agree with them. In living languages
the import of the principal words may be ascertained with ease
and certainty ; and these being fixed, the rest become deter
minable and decypherable by proper care and caution, so that no
practical errors can remain. In dead languages the difficulty
is greater ; but the certainty that ultimately results, is not less
practically in respect of the bulk of the language, on account of
the number of coincidences. But much remains undone yet,
particularly in respect of the Hebrew language. Logic, natural
and civil history, philosophical and religious knowledge, may all,
in their several ways, contribute to fix the true sense of words.
And the fixing the senses of words, by all the methods here
enumerated, may be called the art of making dictionaries. It
receives great assistance from the art of grammar ; and is at the
same time the main foundation of it. This, last art has also the
same connexions with the other branches of knowledge ; as that
of fixing the senses of words. The same may be said of criticism ;
which may be defined the art of restoring the corrupted passages
of authors, and ascertaining their genuine sense, and method of
reasoning.
In all these things there seems to be a sufficient foundation
for unity of opinion amongst those that are truly learned and
candid; at least in all important points. And, in fact, the
differences here amongst the literati, are plainly owing, in great
measure, to ambition, envy, affectation of singularity and novelty,
&c. All these things magnify the ideas and coalescences, which
a man calls his own ; those of his party, &c. associate ideas of
truth, excellence, genius, &c. to them, and opposite ones to all
that the supposed adversary delivers.
No sceptic can proceed so far as to disclaim the sense of the
words of his native tongue, or of a foreign one, which he under
stands. The things signified thereby must and will be suggested
by, and coalesce with, the sounds ; so that he cannot but under
stand what he hears and reads. And this is all the truth that
belongs to philology as such. The truth of the things expressed
in words is a consideration belonging to the several other branches
of knowledge respectively.
S As the plain didactic style is intended merely to inform the
understanding, so the rhetorical and poetical styles are intended
to excite the passions by the associations which figurative terms
and forms of expression, flowing periods, numbers, rhymes,
similes, fables, fictions, &c. draw after them.
Painting and music produce a like effect upon the passions, as
rhetoric and poetry, and by means that are not very unlike.
But I shall have occasion hereafterto say something more con
cerning all these imaginative arts,
THE NATURE OF ASSENT.
Of Mathematics.
Mathematics are that branch of knowledge which is the most
independent of any, and the least liable to uncertainty, difference
of opinion, and sceptical doubts. However, uncertainties, differ
ences, and doubts, have arisen here; but then they have been
chiefly about such parts of mathematics as fall under the con
sideration of the logician. For, it seems impossible that a man
who has qualified himself duly, should doubt about the justness
of an arithmetical, algebraical, or fluxional operation, or the
conclusiveness of a geometrical demonstration.
The words point, line, surface, infinitely great, infinitely little,
are all capable of definitions, at least of being explained by other
words. But then these words cannot suggest any visible ideas
to the imagination, but what are inconsistent with the very words
themselves. However, this inconsistency has no effect upon the
reasoning. It is evident, that all that can be meant by the three
angles of a triangle being equal to two right ones, or the parabolic
area to § of the circumscribing parallelogram, or deduced from
these positions, must always hold in future fact ; and this, as
observed above, is all the truth that any thing can. have. In
fluxional conclusions it is demonstratively evident, that the
quantity under consideration cannot be greater or less by any
thing assignable, than according to the fluxional conclusion ; and
this seems to me entirely the same thing as proving it to be
equal.
I cannot presume to suggest any particular methods by which
farther discoveries may be made in mathematical matters, which
are so far advanced, that few persons are able to comprehend
even what is discovered and unfolded already. However, it may
not be amiss to observe, that all the operations of arithmetic,
geometry, and algebra, should be applied to each other in every
possible way, so as to find out in each something analogous to
what is already known and established in the other two. The
application of the arithmetical operations of division and ex
traction of roots to algebraic quantities, and of the method of
obtaining the roots of numeral equations by approximation to
specious ones, as taught by Sir Isaac Newton, have been the
sources of the greatest fluxional discoveries.
Of Logic.
It is the purport of this and the foregoing section, to give
imperfect rudiments of such an art of logic, as is defined above,
*. «. as should make use of words in the way of mathematical
symbols, and proceed by mathematical methods of investigation
and computation in inquiries of all sorts. Not that the data in
the sciences are as yet, in general, ripe for such methods; but
Q
PROPOSITIONS, AND
they seem to tend to this more and more perpetually, in par
ticular branches, so that it cannot be amiss to prepare ourselves,
in some measure, previously.
Logic, and metaphysics, which are nearly allied to logic, seem
more involved in obscurity and perplexity, than any other part
of science. This has probably been the chief source of scepticism,
since it appears necessary, that that part of knowledge, which is
the basis of all others, which is to shew wherein certainty, pro
bability, possibility, improbability, and impossibility, consist,
should itself be free from all doubt and uncertainty.
It seems also, that as logic is required for the basis of the other
sciences, so a logic of a second order is required for a basis to
that of the first, of a third for that of a second, and so on sine
limite : which, if it were true, would, from the nature of dependent
evidences, prove that logic is either absolutely certain, or ab
solutely void of all probability. For, if the evidence for it be
ever so little inferior to unity, it will, by the continual infinite
multiplication required in dependent evidences infinitely con
tinued, bring itself down to nothing. Therefore, e converso,
since no one can say, that the rules of logic are void of all pro
bability, the summum genus of them must be certain. This
summum genus is the necessary coalescence of the subject with
the predicate. But the argument here alleged is merely one
ad hominetn, and not the natural way of treating the subject.
The necessary coalescence just spoken of carries its own evidence
with it. It is necessary from the nature of the brain, and that
in the most confirmed sceptic, as well as in any other person.
And we need only inquire into the history of the brain, and the
physiological influences of words and symbols upon it by associa
tion, in order to see this. I am also inclined to believe, that the
method here proposed of considering words and sentences as
impressions, whose influence upon the mind is entirely to be
determined by the associations heaped upon them in the inter
courses of life, and endeavouring to determine these associations,
both analytically and synthetically, will cast much light upon
logical subjects, and cut off the sources of many doubts and
differences.
As the theories of all o.ther arts and sciences must be extracted
from them, so logic, which contains the theory'of all these theories,
must be extracted from these theories ; and yet this is not to
reason in a circle in either case, since the theory is first extracted
from self-evident or allowed particulars, and then applied to par
ticulars not yet known, in order to discover and prove them.
It may not be amiss here to take notice how far the theory
of these papers has led me to differ in respect of logic, from
Mr. Locke's excellent Essay on Human Understanding, to which
the .world are so much indebted for removing prejudices and in
cumbrances, and advancing real and useful knowledge.
First, then, It appears to me, that all the most complex ideas
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 227
arise from sensation ; and that reflection is not a distinct source,
as Mr. Locke makes it.
Secondly, Mr. Locke ascribes ideas to many words, which, as
I have defined idea, cannot be said to have any immediate and
precise ones; but only to admit of definitions. However, let
definition be substituted instead of idea, in these cases, and then
all Mr. Locke's excellent rules concerning words, delivered in his
third book, will suit the theory of these papers.
As to the first difference, which I think may be called an error
in Mr. LockeJ it is, however, of little consequence. We may
conceive, that he called such ideas as he could analyse up to
sensation, ideas of sensation ; the rest ideas of reflection, using
reflection, as a term of art, denoting an unknown quantity.
Besides which, it may be remarked, that the words which,
according to him, stand for ideas of reflection, are in general
words, that, according to the theory of these papers, have no
ideas, but definitions only. And thus the first difference is, as it
were, taken away by the second ; for, if these words have no
immediate ideas, there will be no occasion to have recourse to
reflection as a source of ideas ; and, upon the whole, there is no
material repugnancy between the consequences of this theory,
and any thing advanced by Mr. Locke.
The ingenious Bishop Berkeley has justly observed against ■
Mr. Locke, that there can be no such thing as abstract ideas, in
the proper sense of the word idea. However, this does not seem
to vitiate any considerable part of Mr. Locke's reasoning. Sub
stitute definition for idea in the proper places, and his conclusions
will hold good in general.
Of Natural History.
Natural history is a branch of knowledge, which, at the first
view, appears to have a boundless extent, and to be capable of
the utmost practical precision and certainty, if sufficient care and
industry be employed. And, in fact, the doubts and differences
here are not very considerable ; they do also grow less and less
every day, by the great quantity of knowledge of this kind, which
is poured in from all quarters, as learning and inquisitiveness
diffuse themselves more and more amongst all nations, and all
orders of men.
The materials for natural history, which any single person can
collect from his own observation, being very inconsiderable, in
respect of those which he wants, he is obliged to have recourse
to others ; and therefore must depend upon their testimony, just
as in civil history. And our assent, in each case, being excited
by a variety of concurrent proofs, and of coincident circumstances,
transfers part of its authority upon the other. We believe testi
mony in natural history, because we do in civil, and vice versd:
and have a variety of concurrent confirmations in both cases.
Q 2
228 PROPOSITIONS, AND
However, as the general facts are thus practically certain, so
the subordinate ones are, in many cases, liable to doubts. And
it is evident, that, for the resolution of these doubts in natural
history, we must borrow the assistance of all the other branches
of science ; and that some skill in philology must be attained,
before we can hope to arrive at any tolerable perfection in natural
or civil history. Natural history is the only sure basis of natural
philosophy, and has some influence upon all the other sciences.
Of Civil History.
The general evidences upon which civil history is grounded,
have been just hinted at. It is manifest, that the discoveries of
natural historians, astronomers, linguists, antiquaries, and philo
sophers of all kinds, have brought great light and evidence upon
this branch of knowledge within the last two centuries; and are
likely to do so more and more.
The ancient history of the kingdoms of Asia Minor, Egypt,
and Greece, will probably be much better understood, when the
inhabitants of those countries become learned.
He that would search into the first ages of the world, must
take the Scriptures for his guide, lay down the truth of these as
unquestionable, and force all other evidences into that position.
This seems to have been the method taken by Sir Isaac Newton
in his Chronology, and which at last unfolded to him the proper
method of detecting and correcting the mistakes in the ancient
technical chronology of the Greeks by itself.
The concurrent independent evidences in the grand points of
history are so much more numerous than the dependent ones,
and most of them so strong, singly taken, that the deficiency
from certainty in these grand points cannot be distinguished by
the human mind. And therefore it is a practical error of great
importance to suppose, that such kind of historical evidences are
inferior to mathematical ones. They are equal, as far as we have
any thing to do with them; i. e. can judge of them, or be in
fluenced by them. All future facts depending on them have as
good a basis, as those depending on mathematical evidences.
I speak here of principal matters, such as the conquests of
Alexander and Julius Caesar, and the main history, common and
miraculous, of the Old and New Testaments. Till our knowledge
be applied to the predicting or producing future facts, no sort of
it is of use or importance to us; and the application of mathema
tical knowledge is just as much exposed to the several kinds and
degrees of uncertainty, as that of any other. That the evidence
for principal historical facts is not, in general, considered as equal
to mathematical certainty, arises partly from the just mentioned
ill-grounded affirmations of learned men ; partly from the com-
plexness of the historical proofs, which require time and con
sideration to digest them ; and partly because the uncertainty
THE NATURE OF ASSENT. 229
attending subordinate facts has diluted the evidence of the prin
cipal and unquestionable ones, since the same general forms of
expression are, and must be used in both cases.
Of Natural Philosophy.
It may be observed of natural philosophy, that in the parts
where the ideas are simple, clear, and of the visible kind, or
adequately expounded by such, and the method of investigation
and computation mathematical, as in mechanics, hydrostatics,
pneumatics, optics, and astronomy, the doubts and diversities of
opinion which arise, are inconsiderable. But in the theories
of chemistry, of manual arts and trades, of medicine, and, in
general, of the powers and mutual actions of the small parts of
matter, the uncertainties and perplexities are as great as in any
part of science. For the small parts of matter, with their actions,
are too minute to be the objects of sight; and we are as yet
neither possessed of a detail of the phaenomena sufficiently copious
and regular, whereon to ground an investigation ; nor of a method
of investigation, subtle enough to arrive at the subtlety of nature
even in the biggest component particles, much less in the particles
of the smaller orders ; and how far the number of orders may go,
is impossible to say. I see no contradiction in supposing it in- '
finite, and a great difficulty in stopping at any particular size.
Suppose the number of orders of particles infinite, or at least
very great ; and that particles of all orders are perpetually flying
off from all bodies with great velocity. First, This may occasion
the gravitation of the great bodies of the universe to each other,
by the impulse of the smaller corpuscles upon particles of sizes
equal to each other in the greater bodies, the impulses of the
larger corpuscles, and upon particles, of unequal size, being
evanescent in respect of the foregoing impulses. But where par
ticles approach near to one another, and the corpuscles bear
some finite ratio to the particles so as not to pervade them
freely, before they come to particles of equal size to each other,
but affect them in proportion to their surfaces, not solid content,
and I suppose from many other causes, attractions of other kinds
may arise ; and if one or both of the contiguous particles send
out many corpuscles with great force; also if these corpuscles
effervesce together in the intermediate space, and gain new
forces thence, &c. repulsive powers may rise. If it be reason
able to suppose many orders of particles, it is also reasonable to
suppose, that their powers and properties are somewhat analo
gous to one another ; and that those of the larger particles arise
from, and are compounded of, those of the next less in size, and
so on ; just as the whole gravity of the moon is compounded of
the gravity of all its parts. But these are all very gross and un
certain conjectures.
In the mean time, it seems proper to use the words magnetism,
230 PROPOSITIONS, AND THE NATURE OF ASSENT.
electricity, attraction of cohesion, spiritus rector, acrimony of
the animal juices, &c. as terms of art, as unknown causes of
known effects. But then they ought always to be defined, the
definitions rigorously kept to, and all secondary ideas from prior
associations excluded. Were this done in chemistry and medi
cine, it would produce a great reformation, and at once cut off
many incumbrances, perplexities, and obscurities. The vu
inertia of bodies, and the equivalent terms, were once terms of
this kind, standing for the unknown cause of known phaenomena.
By degrees these phaenomena were digested into order, the
terms contributing thereto, and the three several kinds of them,
classed respectively under the three laws of nature, which have
been applied synthetically since, and given rise to the greatest
mechanical discoveries. The same may be observed of gravity.
And if the laws of magnetism, electricity, and the attraction of
cohesion, could be ascertained in the same manner as the laws of
the vis inertia and gravity, we should be enabled to predict and
produce many effects of great importance to us.
It is of the highest use to us in practical' matters, that the
properties of bodies are so closely connected with each other.
Thus the colour and specific gravity of a metal, the visible idea
of a plant, also its taste or smell, give us a practical certainty in
respect of all the other properties. This close connexion of the
properties follows undoubtedly from the powers and mutual
actions of the small parts ; so that, if we could arrive at the
knowledge of these last, we should immediately see not only the
reason of all the properties of bodies, which are known at present,
but be able to discover innumerable other relative ones. In the
mean time we must endeavour to discover, digest, and register,
the various properties of natural bodies, as they rise to view from
suitable experiments ; and thus prepare the way for those who
shall hereafter decypher their internal constitution.
Of Religion.
All the foregoing branches of knowledge ought to be consi
dered as mere preparatories and preliminaries to the knowledge
of religion, natural and revealed. They all, in their several
orders and degrees, concur to establish the principal doctrines
and duties of it ; and these, when established, become the best
means for attaining knowledge. The benevolence of the Deity,
and the doctrine of final causes, are the best clew for guiding us
through the labyrinths of natural phaenomena, and particularly
of those which relate to animals. The Scriptures are the only
book which can give us any just idea of ancient times, of the
original of mankind, their dispersion, &c. or of what will befall
them in future generations. As to future things, predicted in the
Scriptures, we can as yet collect nothing more than general intima
tions ; but there is reason to believe, that succeeding generations
THE AFFECTIONS IN GENERAL. 231
may arrive at afar more precise interpretation of prophecy. It
may also be, that much philosophical knowledge is concealed in
the Scriptures ; and that it will be revealed in its due time. The
analogy between the word and works of God, which is a consi
deration of the religious kind, seems to comprehend the most
important truths. To all this it must be added, that the temper
of mind prescribed by religion, viz. modesty, impartiality,
sobriety, and diligence, are the best qualifications for succeeding
in all inquiries. Thus religion comprehends, as it were, all
other knowledge, advances, and is advanced by all ; at the same
time that where there is a morally good disposition, a very small
portion of other knowledge is sufficient for the attainment of all
that is necessary for virtue and comfort here, and eternal happi
ness hereafter.
The great differences of opinion, and contentions which happen
in religious matters, are plainly owing to the violence of men's
passions, more than to any other cause. Where religion has its
due effect in restraining these, and begetting true candour, we
may expect an unity of opinion, both in religious and other
matters, as far as is necessary for useful practical purposes.
SECT. III.
OF THE AFFECTIONS IN GENERAL.
Prop. LXXXIX.— To explain the Origin and Nature of the
Passions in general.
Here we may observe,
First, That our passions or affections can be no more than
aggregates of simple ideas united by association. For they are
excited by objects, and by the incidents of life. But these, if
we except the impressed sensations, can have no power of affect
ing us, but what they derive from association ; just as was ob
served above of words and sentences.
Secondly, Since therefore the passions are states of considerable
pleasure or pain, they must be aggregates of the ideas, or traces
of the sensible pleasures and pains, which ideas make up by their
number, and mutual influence upon one another, for the faiut-
ness and transitory nature of each singly taken. This may be
called a proof a priori. The proof a posteriori will be given,
when I come to analyse the six classes of intellectual affections,
viz. imagination, ambition, self-interest, sympathy, theopathy,
and the moral sense.
232 THE AFFECTIONS IN GENERAL.
Thirdly, As sensation is the common foundation of all these,
so each in its turn, when sufficiently generated, contributes to
generate and model all the rest. We may conceive this to be
done in the following manner. Let sensation generate imagina
tion ; then will sensation and imagination together generate
ambition; sensation, imagination, and ambition, self-interest;
sensation, imagination, ambition, and self-interest, sympathy ;
sensation, imagination, ambition, self-interest, and sympathy,
theopathy ; sensation, imagination, ambition, self-interest, sym
pathy, and theopathy, the moral sense : and, in an inverted
order, imagination will new model sensation ; ambition, sensation
and imagination ; self-interest, sensation, imagination, and ambi
tion; sympathy, sensation, imagination, ambition, and self-interest;
theopathy, sensation, imagination, ambition, self-interest, and
sympathy; and the moral sense, sensation, imagination, ambition,
self-interest, sympathy, and theopathy : till at last, by the nume
rous reciprocal influences of all these upon each other, the
passions arrive at that degree of complexness, which is observed
in fact, and which makes them so difficult to be analysed.
Fourthly, As all the passions arise thus from pleasure and
pain, their first and most general distribution may be into the
two classes of love and hatred, i. e. we may term all those affec
tions of the pleasurable kind, which objects and incidents raise in
us, love ; all those of the painful kind, hatred. Thus we are said
to love not only intelligent agents of morally good dispositions,
but also sensual pleasures, riches, and honours ; and to hate
poverty, disgrace, and pain, bodily and mental.
Fifthly, When our love and hatred are excited to a certain
degree, they put us upon a variety of actions, and may be termed
desire and aversion ; by which last word I understand an active
hatred. Now the actions which flow from desire and aversion,
are entirely the result of associated powers and circumstances,
agreeable to the twentieth, twenty-first, and twenty-second pro
positions, with their corollaries. The young child learns to
grasp and go up to the play-thing that pleases him, and to
withdraw his hand from the fire that burns him, at first from the
mechanism of his nature, and without any deliberate purpose of
obtaining pleasure, and avoiding pain, or any explicit reasoning
about them. By degrees he learns, partly from the recurrency
of these mechanical tendencies, inspired by God, as one may say,
by means of the nature which He has given us, and partly from
the instruction and imitation of others, to pursue every thing
which he loves and desires, fly from every thing which be hates ;
and to reason about the method of doing this, <just as he does
upon other matters. And, because mankind are for the most
part pursuing or avoiding something or other, the desire of
happiness, and the aversion to misery, are supposed to be inse
parable from, and essential to, all intelligent natures. But this
does not seem to be an exact or correct way of speaking. The
THE AFFECTIONS IN GENERAL.
most general of our desires and aversions are factitious, i. e.
generated by association; and therefore admit of intervals,
augmentations, and diminutions. And, whoever will be suffi
ciently attentive to the workings of his own mind, and the
actions resulting therefrom, or to the actions of others, and the
affections which may be supposed to occasion them, will find
such differences and singularities in different persons, and in the
same person at different times, as no way agree to the notion of
an essential, original, perpetual desire of happiness, and endea
vour to attain it ; but much rather to the factitious associated
desires and endeavours here asserted. And a due regard to this,
will, as it seems to me, solve many difficulties and perplexities
found in treatises upon the passions. The writers upon this
subject have begun in the synthetical method prematurely, and
without having premised the analytical one. For it is very true
that, after general desires and endeavours are generated, they
give rise in their turn to a variety of particular ones. But the
original source is in the particular ones, and the general ones
never alter and new-model the particular ones so much, as that
there are not many traces and vestiges of their original mecha
nical nature and proportions remaining.
Sixthly, The will appears to be nothing but a desire or
aversion sufficiently strong to produce an action that is not
automatic primarily or secondarily. At least it appears to me,
that the substitution of these words for the word will may be
justified by the common usage of language. The will is there
fore that desire or aversion, which is strongest for the then
present time. For if any other desire was stronger, the mus
cular motion connected with it by association would take place,
and not that which proceeds from the will, or the voluntary one,
which is contrary to the supposition. Since therefore all love \
and hatred, all desire and aversion, are factitious, and generated .
by association, i. e. mechanically, it follows that the will is 1
mechanical also.
Seventhly, Since the things which we pursue do, when ob
tained, generally afford pleasure, and those which we fly from
affect us with pain, if they overtake us, it follows that the grati
fication of the will is generally attended or associated with
pleasure, the disappointment of it with pain. Hence a mere
associated pleasure is transferred upon the gratification of the
will; a mere associated pain upon the disappointment of it.
And if the will was always gratified, this mere associated pleasure
would, according to the present frame of our natures, absorb, as
it were, all our other pleasures; and thus by drying up the
source from whence it sprung, be itself dried up at last : and the
first disappointments, after a long course of gratification, would
be intolerable. Both which things are sufficiently observable, in
an inferior degree, in children that are much indulged, and in
adults, after a series of successful events. Gratifications of the
23i THE AFFECTIONS IN GENERAL.
will without the consequent expected pleasure, and disappoint
ments of it without the consequent expected pain, are particu
larly useful to us here. And it is by this amongst other means,
that the human will is brought to a conformity with the divine ;
which is the only radical cure for all our evils and disappoint
ments, and the only earnest and medium for obtaining lasting
happiness.
Eighthly, We often desire and pursue things which give pain
rather than pleasure. Here it is to be supposed, that at first
they afforded pleasure, and that they now give pain on account
of a change in our nature and circumstances. Now, as the
continuance to desire and pursue such objects, notwithstanding
the pain arising from them, is the effect of the power of asso
ciation, so the same power will at last reverse its own steps, and
free us from such hurtful desires, and pursuits. The recurrency
of pain will at last render the object undesirable and hateful.
And the experience of this painful process, in a few particular
instances, will at last, as in other cases of the same kind, beget a
habit of ceasing to pursue things, which we perceive by a few
trials, or by rational arguments, to be hurtful to us upon the
whole.
Ninthly, A state of desire ought to be pleasant at first, from
the near relation of desire to love, and of love to pleasure and
happiness. But in the course of a long pursuit, so many fears
and disappointments, apparent or real, in respect of the subordi
nate means, and so many strong agitations of mind passing the
limits of pleasure, intervene, as greatly to chequer a state of
desire with misery. For the same reasons states of aversion are
chequered with hope and comfort.
Tenthly, Hope and fear are, as just now observed, the attend
ants upon desire and aversion. These affect us more or less,
according to the more or less frequent recurrency of the pleasing
and painful ideas, according to the greater or less probability of
the expected event, according to the greater or less distance of
time, &c. the power of association displaying itself every where
in the agitations of mind excited by these passions. It is parti
cularly remarkable here that our hopes and fears rise and fall
with certain bodily dispositions, according as these favour or
oppose them.
Eleventhly, Joy and grief take place when the desire and
aversion, hope and fear, are at an end ; and are love and hatred,
exerted towards an object which is present either in a sensible
manner, or in a rational one, i. e. so as to occupy the whole
powers of the mind, as sensible objects, when present, and
attended to, do the external senses. It is very evident, that the
objects of the intellectual pleasures and pains derive their power
of thus affecting the mind from association.
Twelfthly, After the actual joy and grief are over, and the
object withdrawn, there generally remains a pleasing or dis
MEMORY. 235
pleasing recollection or resentment, which recurs with every
recurrency of the idea of the object, or of the associated ones.
This recollection keeps up the love or hatred. In like manner
the five grateful passions, love, desire, hope, joy, and pleasing
recollection, all enhance one another ; as do the five ungrateful
ones, hatred, aversion, fear, grief, and displeasing recollection.
And the whole ten, taken together, comprehend, as appears to
me, all the general passions of human nature.
SECT. IV.
OF MEMORY.
Prop. XC.—To examine how far the Phanomena of Memory
are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
Memory was defined in the introduction to be that faculty by
which traces of sensations and ideas recur, or are recalled, in the
same order and proportion, accurately or nearly, as they were
once presented.
Now here we may observe,
First, That memory depends entirely or chiefly on the state of
the brain. For diseases, concussions of the brain, spirituous
liquors, and some poisons, impair or destroy it ; and it generally
returns again with the return of health, from the use of proper
medicines and methods. And all this is peculiarly suitable to
the notion of vibrations. If sensations and ideas arise from
peculiar vibrations, and dispositions to vibrate, in the medullary
substance of the brain, it is easy to conceive, that the causes
above alleged may so confound the sensations and ideas, as that
the usual order and proportion of the idea shall be destroyed.
Secondly, The rudiments of memory are laid in the perpetual
recurrency of the same impressions, and clusters of impressions.
How these leave traces, in which the order is preserved, may
be understood from the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh propo
sitions.
The traces which letters, and words, i. e. clusters of letters,
leave, afford an instance and example of this. And, as in
languages the letters are fewer than the syllables, the syllables
than the words, and the words than the sentences, so the single
sensible impressions, and the small clusters of them, are com
paratively few in respect of the large clusters ; and, being so,
they must recur more frequently, so as the sooner to beget those
traces which I call the rudiments or elements of memory. When
these traces or ideas begin to recur frequently, this also con
236 MEMORY.
tributes to fix them, and their order, in the memory, in the same
manner as the frequent impression of the objects themselves.
Thirdly, Suppose now a person so far advanced in life, as that
he has learnt all these rudiments, i. e. that he has ideas of the
common appearances and occurrences of life, under a considerable
variety of subordinate circumstances, which recur to his imagi
nation from the slightest causes, and with the most perfect
facility; and let us ask, how he can be able to remember or
recollect a past fact, consisting of one thousand single particulars,
or of one hundred such clusters as are called the rudiments of
memory ; ten single particulars being supposed to constitute a
rudiment? First, then, We may observe, that there are only
one hundred links wanting in the chain; for he has already learnt
considerable exactness in the subordinate circumstances of the
one hundred clusters; and perfect exactness is not to be supposed
or required.—Secondly, The one hundred clusters recur again and
again to the imagination for some time after the fact, in a quick
and transient manner, as those who attend sufficiently to what
passes in their own minds may perceive; and this both makes
the impression a little deeper, and also serves to preserve the
order. If the person attempts to recollect soon after the im
pression, the effect remaining in the brain is sufficient to enable
him to do this with the accuracy required and experienced ; if a
longer time intervene, before he attempts to recollect, still the
number of involuntary recurrences makes up in some measure
for the want of this voluntary recollection. However, the power
of recollection declines in general, and is entirely lost by degrees.
It confirms this reasoning, that a new set of strong impressions
destroys this power of recollection. For this must both obliterate
the effects of the foregoing impressions, and prevent the recur-
rency of the ideas.—Thirdly, As the single impressions, which
make the small clusters, are not combined together at hazard,
but according to a general tenor in nature, so the clusters which
make facts succeed each other according to some general tenor
likewise. Now this both lessens the number of varieties, and
shews that the association between many of the clusters, or
rudiments, or one hundred links supposed to be wanting, is
cemented already. This may be both illustrated and exemplified
by the observation, that it is difficult to remember even well-
known words that have no connexion with each other, and more
so to remember collections of barbarous terms ; whereas adepts
in any science remember the things of that science with a sur
prising exactness and facility. — Fourthly, Some clusters are
excluded from succeeding others, by ideas of inconsistency,
impossibility, and by the methods of reasoning, of which we
become masters as we advance in life. — Fifthly, The visible
impressions which concur in the past fact, by _beirjg__yivid, and
preserving the order of place, often contribute greatly to preserve
the order of time, and to suggest the clusters which may be
MEMORY. 237
wanting. — Sixthly, It is to be observed, that as we think in
words, both the impressions and the recurrences of ideas will
be attended with words; and these words, from the great use
and familiarity of language, will fix themselves strongly in the
fancy, and by so doing bring up the associated trains of ideas
in the proper order, accurately or nearly. And thus, when a
person relates a past fact, the ideas do in some cases suggest the
words, whilst in others the words suggest the ideas. Hence
illiterate persons do not remember nearly so well as others,
cceteris paribus. And I suppose the same is true of deaf persons
in a still greater degree. But it arises hence also, that many
mistakes in the subordinate circumstances are committed in the
relations of past facts, if the relater descend to minute particulars.
For the same reasons these mistakes will be so associated with
the true facts after a few relations, that the relater himself shall
believe that he remembers them distinctly. — Seventhly, The
mistakes which are committed both on the foregoing account and
others, make considerable abatements in the difficulty here to be
solved.
Fourthly, Let it now be asked, in what the recollection of a
past fact, consisting of one hundred clusters, as above, differs
from the transit of the same one hundred clusters, over the
fancy, in the way of a reverie ? I answer, partly in the vividness
of the clusters, partly and principally in the readiness and strength
of the associations, by which they are cemented together. This
follows from what has been already delivered ; but it may be
confirmed also by many other observations.—Thus, first, Many
persons are known by relating the same false story over and
over again, i. e. by magnifying the ideas, and their associations,
at last to believe that they remember it. It makes as vivid an
impression upon them, and hangs as closely together, as an
assemblage of past facts recollected by memory.—Secondly, All
men are sometimes at a loss to know whether clusters of ideas
that strike the fancy strongly, and succeed each other readily
and immediately, be recollections, or mere reveries. And the
more they agitate the matter in the mind, the more does the
reverie appear like a recollection. It resembles this, that if in
endeavouring to recollect a verse, a wrong word, suiting the
place, first occurs, and afterwards the right one, it is difficult
during the then present agitation to distinguish the right one.
But afterwards, when this agitation is subsided, the right word
easily regains its place. Persons of irritable nervous systems are
more subject to such fallacies than others. And madmen often
impose upon themselves in this way, viz. from the vividness of
their ideas and associations, produced by bodily causes. The
same thing often happens in dreams. The vividness of the new
scene often makes it appear like one that we remember, and are
well acquainted with.—Thirdly, If the specific nature of memory
consist in the great vigour of the ideas, and their associations,
2S8 MEMORY.
then, as this vigour abates, it ought to suggest to us a length of
time elapsed ; and vice versd, if it be kept up, the distance of
time ought to appear contracted. Now this last is the case : for
the death of a friend, or any interesting event, often recollected
and related, appears to have happened but yesterday, as we term
it, viz. on account of the vividness of the clusters, and their
associations, corresponding to the nature of a recent event.—
Fourthly, It is not, however, to be here supposed, that we have
not many other ways of distinguishing real recollections from
mere reveries. For the first are supported by their connexion
with known and allowed facts, by various methods of reasoning,
and having been related as real recollections, &c.
Fifthly, In like manner we distinguish a new place, book,
person, &c. from one which we remember, supposing both to be
presented in like circumstances. The parts, associates, &c. of
that which we remember, strike us more strongly, are suggested
by each other, and hang together, which does not hold of the
new. The old does also suggest many associates, which a new
one in like circumstances would not. And if from the then state
of fancy, the distance of time, &c. there be any doubt of these
things either with respect to the old or new, a like doubt arises
in respect of the memory. An attentive person may observe,
that he determines of such things, whether they be old or new,
by the vividness of the ideas, and their power of suggesting each
other, and foreign associates.
Some persons seem to suppose, that the soul surveys one
object, the old for instance, and comparing it with the impressions
which a similar new one would excite, calls the old one an object
remembered. But this is like supposing an eye within the eye
to view the pictures made by objects upon the retina. Not to
mention, that the soul cannot in the same instant, during the
same to vvv survey both the old and new, and compare them
together ; nor is there any evidence, that this is done in fact.
A person who inquires into the nature of memory, may indeed
endeavour to state the difference between the impressions of old
and new, as I have done here ; but this is a speculation that few
persons concern themselves with, whereas all remember and
apply the words relative to memory just as they do other words.
We may conclude therefore, that the difference of vividness and
connexion in the ideas, with the other associates of recollections,
are a sufficient foundation for the proper use of the words
relative to the memory, just as in other like cases.
Sixthly, The peculiar imperfection of the memory in children
tallies with the foregoing account of this faculty; and indeed
this account may be considered as a gross general history of the
successive growth of the memory, in passing from childhood to
adult age. Children must learn by degrees the ideas of single
impressions, the clusters which I call rudiments, and the most
usual connexions and combinations of these. They have also
MEMORY. 239
the use of words, and of objects and incidents, as signs and
symbols, with the proper method of reasoning upon them, to
learn ; and during their noviciate in these things their memories
must labour under great imperfections. It appears also, that the
imperfections peculiar to childreji correspond in kind as well as
degree to the reasons here assigned for them. Their not being
able to digest past facts in order of time is, in great measure,
owing to their not having the proper use of the symbols,
whereby time is denoted.
Seventhly, The peculiar imperfection of the memory in aged
persons tallies also with the foregoing account. The vibrations,
and dispositions to vibrate, in the small medullary particles, and
their associations, are all so fixed by the callosity of the medullary
substance, and by repeated impressions and recurrences, that
new impressions can scarce enter, that they recur seldom, and
that the parts which do recur bring in old trains from established
associations, instead of continuing those which were lately im
pressed. Hence one may almost predict what very old persons
will say or do upon common occurrences. Which is also the
case frequently with persons of strong passions, for reasons that
are not very unlike. When old persons relate the incidents of
their youth with great precision, it is rather owing to the memory
of many preceding memories, recollections, and relations, than to
the memory of the thing itself.
Eighthly, In recovering from concussions, and other disorders
of the brain, it is usual for the patient to recover the power of
remembering the then present common incidents for minutes,
hours, and days, by degrees; also the power of recalling the
events of his life preceding his illness. At length he recovers
this last power perfectly, and at the same time forgets almost all
that passed in his illness, even those things which he remem
bered, at first, for a day or two. Now the reason of this I take
to be, that upon a perfect recovery the brain recovers its natural
state, i. e. all its former dispositions to vibrate ; but that such as
took place during the preternatural state of the brain, i. e. during
his illness, are all obliterated by the return of the natural state.
In like manner dreams, which happen in a peculiar state of the
brain, i. e. in sleep, vanish, as soon as vigilance, a different state,
takes place. But if they be recollected immediately upon
waking, and thus connected with the state of vigilance, they may
be remembered. But I shall have occasion to be more explicit
on this head in the next Section.
Ninthly, It is very difficult to make any plausible conjectures
why some persons of very weak judgments, not much below
idiots, are endued with a peculiar extraordinary memory. This
memory is generally the power of recollecting a large group of
words, suppose, as those of a sermon, in a short time after they
are heard, with wonderful exactness and readiness ; but then the
whole is obliterated, after a longer time, much more completely
240 IMAGINATION, REVERIES,
than in persons of common memories and judgments. One may
perhaps conjecture, that the brain receives all dispositions to
vibrate sooner in these persons, and lets them go sooner, than in
others. And the last may contribute to the first : for, new im
pressions may take place more deeply and precisely, if there be
few old ones to oppose them. The most perfect memory is that
which can both receive most readily, and retain most durably.
But we may suppose, that there are limits, beyond which these
two different powers cannot consist with each other.
Tenthly, When a person desires to recollect a thing that has
escaped him, suppose the name of a person, or visible object, he
recalls the visible idea, or some other associate, again and again,
by a voluntary power, the desire generally magnifying all the
ideas and associations ; and thus bringing in the association and
idea wanted, at last. However, if the desire be great, it changes
the state of the brain, and has an opposite effect; so that the
desired idea does not recur, till all has subsided ; perhaps not
even then.
Eleventhly, All our voluntary powers are of the nature of
memory ; as may be easily seen from the foregoing account of it,
compared with the account of the voluntary powers given in the
first chapter. And it agrees remarkably with this, that, in morbid
affections of the memory, the voluntary actions suffer a like
change and imperfection.
Twelfthly, For the same reasons the whole powers of the soul
may be referred to the memory, when taken in a large sense.
Hence, though some persons may have strong memories with
weak judgments, yet no man can have a strong judgment with
a weak original power of retaining and remembering.
SECT. V.
OF IMAGINATION, REVERIES, AND DREAMS.
Prop. XCI.— To examine how far the Phenomena of Imagina
tion, Reveries, and Dreams, are agreeable to the foregoing
Theory.
The recurrence of ideas, especially visible and audible ones, in
a vivid manner, but without any regard to the order observed in
past facts, is ascribed to the power of imagination or fancy. Now
here we may observe, that every succeeding thought is the result
either of some new impression, or of an association with the
preceding. And this is the common opinion. It is impossible
indeed to attend so minutely to the succession of our ideas, as to
DREAMS. 241
distinguish and remember for a sufficient time the very impression
or association which gave birth to each thought ; but we can do
this as far as it can be expected to be done, and in so great a
variety of instances, that our argument for the prevalence of the'
foregoing principle of association in all instances, except those of
new impressions, may be esteemed a complete induction.
A reverie differs from imagination only in that the person
being more attentive to his own thoughts, and less disturbed by
foreign objects, more of his ideas are deducible from association,
and fewer from new impressions.
It is to be observed, however, that in all the cases of imagina
tion and reverie, the thoughts depend, in part, upon the then
state of body or mind. A pleasurable or painful state of the
stomach or brain, joy or grief, will make all the thoughts warp
their own way, little or much. But this exception is as agreeable
to the foregoing theory, as the general prevalence of association
just laid down.
We come next to dreams. I say then, that dreams are nothing
but the imaginations, fancies, or reveries of a sleeping man ; and
that they are deducible from the three following causes; viz.
First, The impressions and ideas lately received, and particularly
those of the preceding day. Secondly, The state of the body,
particularly of the stomach and brain. And, thirdly, Association.
That dreams are, in part, deducible from the impression and
ideas of the preceding day, appears from the frequent recurrence
of these in greater or lesser clusters, and especially of the visible
ones, in our dreams. We sometimes take in ideas of longer date,
in part, on account of their recency : however, in general, ideas
that have not affected the mind for some days, recur in dreams
only from the second or third cause here assigned.
That the state of the body affects our dreams, is evident from
the dreams of sick persons, and of those who labour under indi
gestions, spasms, and flatulencies.
Lastly, We may perceive ourselves to be carried on from one
thing to another in our dreams partly by association.
It is also highly agreeable to the foregoing theory to expect,
that each of the three foregoing causes should have an influence
upon the trains of ideas that are presented in dreams.
Let us now see how we can solve the most usual phaenomena
of dreams upon these principles.
First, then, The scenes which present themselves are taken to
be real. We do not consider them as the work of the fancy;
but suppose ourselves present, and actually seeing and hearing
what passes. Now this happens, First, Because we have no
other reality to oppose to the ideas which offer themselves,
whereas in the common fictions of the fancy, while we are awake,
there is always a set of real external objects striking some of our
senses, and precluding a like mistake there : or, if we become
quite inattentive to external objects, the reverie does so far put
DREAMS.
on the nature of a dream, as to appear a reality. Secondly, The
trains of visible ideas, wh ich occur in dreams, are far more vivid
than common visible ideas ; and therefore may the more easily
be taken for actual impressions. For what reasons these ideas
should be so much more vivid, I cannot presume to say. I guess,
that the exclusion of real impressions has some share, and the
increased heat of the brain may have some likewise. The fact is
most observable in the first approaches of sleep ; all the visible
ideas beginning then to be more than usually glaring.
Secondly, There is a great wildness and inconsistency in our
dreams. For the brain, during sleep, is in a state so different
from that in which the usual associations were formed, that they
can by no means take place as they do during vigilance. On the
contrary, the state of the body suggests such ideas, amongst
those that have been lately impressed, as are most suitable to the
various kinds and degrees of pleasant and painful vibrations
excited in the stomach, brain, or some other part. Thus a
person who has taken opium, sees either gay scenes, or ghastly
ones, according as the opium excites pleasant or painful vibrations
in the stomach. Hence it will follow, that ideas will rise suc
cessively in dreams, which have no such connexion as takes
place In nature, in actual impressions, nor any..such. as~Ts Redu
cible from association. And yet, if they rise up quick~an3
vividly one after another, as subjects, predicates, and other
associates use to do, they will be affirmed of each other, and
appear to hang together. Thus the same person appears in two
places at the same time ; two persons appearing successively in
the same place coalesce into one ; a brute is supposed to speak
(when the idea of voice comes from that quarter), or to handle ;
any idea, qualification, office, &c. coinciding in the instant of
time with the idea of one's self, or of another person, adheres
immediately, &c. &c.
Thirdly, We do not take notice of, or are offended at, these
inconsistencies; but pass on from one to another. For the asso
ciations, which should lead us thus to take notice, and be
offended, are, as it were, asleep ; the bodily causes also hurrying
us on to new and new trains successively. But if the bodily
state be such as favours ideas of anxiety and perplexity, then the
inconsistency and apparent impossibility, occurring in dreams,
are apt to give great disturbance and uneasiness. It is to be
observed likewise, that we forget the several parts of our dreams
very fast in passing from one to another ; and that this lessens
the apparent inconsistencies, and their influences.
Fourthly, It is common in dreams for persons to appear to
themselves to be transferred from one place to anothljr^SyTrkiiid
of sailing or flying motion. This arises from the change 6T the
apparent magnitude and position of the images excited in the
brain, this change being such as a change of dislance and position
in ourselves would have occasioned. Whatever the reasons be,
DREAMS.
for which visible images are excited in sleep, like to the objects
with which we converse when awake, the same reasons will hold
for changes of apparent magnitude and position also ; and these
changes in fixed objects, being constantly associated with motions
in ourselves when awake, will infer these motions when asleep.
But then we cannot have the idea of the vis inertice of our own
bodies, answering to the impressions in walking; because the
nerves of the muscles either do not admit of such miniature
vibrations in sleep ; or do not transmit ideas to the mind in con
sequence thereof ; whence we appear to sail, fly, or ride. Yet
sometimes a person seems to walk, and even to strike, just as in
other cases he seems to feel the impression of a foreign body on
his skin.
Those who walk and talk in their sleep, have evidently the
nerves of the muscles concerned so free, as that vibrations can
descend from the internal parts of the brain, the peculiar resi- v/
dence of ideas, into them. At the same time the brain itself is so
oppressed, that they have scarce any memory. Persons who read
inattentively, i. e. see and speak almost without remembering,
also those who labour under such a morbid loss of memory, as
that though they see, hear, speak, and act, pro re nata, from
moment to moment, yet they forget all immediately, somewhat
resemble the persons who walk and talk in sleep.
Fifthly, Dreams consist chiefly of visible imagery. This agrees
remarkably with the perpetual impressions made upon the optic
nerves and corresponding parts of the brain during vigilance, and
with the distinctness and vividness of the images impressed.
We may observe also, that the visible imagery in dreams is
composed, in a considerable degree, of fragments of visible
appearances lately impressed. For the disposition to these
vibrations must be greater than to others, cceteris paribus, at the
same time that by the imperfection and interruption of the
associations, only fragments, not whole images, will generally
appear. The fragments are so small, and so intermixed with
other fragments and appearances, that it is difficult to trace them
up to the preceding day ; the shortness of our memory contri
buting also not a little thereto.
It happens in dreams, that the same fictitious places are pre
sented again and again at the distance of weeks and months, u
perhaps during the whole course of life. These places are, I
suppose, compounded at first, probably early in youth, of frag
ments of real places, which we have seen. They afterwards recur
in dreams, because the same state of brain recurs; and when
this has happened for some successions, they may be expected to
recur at intervals during life. But they may also admit of
variations, especially before frequent recurrency has established
and fixed them.
Sixthly, It has been observed already, that many of the thing9
which are presented in dreams, appear to be remembered by us,
r 2
DREAMS.
or, at least, as familiar to us ; and that this may be solved by the
readiness with which they start up, and succeed one another, in
the fancy.
Seventhly, It has also been remarked, that dreams ought to be
soon forgotten, as they are in fact ; because the state of the brain
' suffers great changes in passing from sleep to vigilance. The
wildness and inconsistency of our dreams render them still more
liable to be forgotten. It is said that a man may remember his
dreams best by continuing in the same posture in which he
dreamt ; which, if true, would be a remarkable confirmation of
the doctrine of vibrations ; since those which take place in the
medullary substance of the brain would be least disturbed and
obliterated by this means.
Eighthly, the dreams which are presented in the first part of
the night are, for the most part, much more confused, irregular,
and difficult to be remembered, than those which we dream
towards the morning; and these last are often rational to a
considerable degree, and regulated according to the usual course
of our associations. For the brain begins then to approach to
the state of vigilance, or that in which the usual associations
were formed and cemented. However, association has some
power even in wild and inconsistent dreams.
Cor. I. As the prophecies were, many of them, commu
nicated in the way of divine visions, trances, or dreams, so they
bear many of the foregoing marks of dreams. Thus they deal
chiefly in visible imagery ; they abound with apparent impos
sibilities, and deviations from common life, of which yet the
. prophets take not the least notice : they speak of new things as
v of familiar ones : they are carried in the spirit from place to
place ; things requiring a long series of time in real life are
transacted in the prophetical visions as soon as seen ; they
ascribe to themselves and others new names, offices, &c.; every
thing has a real existence conferred upon it ; there are singular
combinations of fragments of visible appearances; and God
himself is represented in a visible shape, which of all other things
must be most offensive to a pious Jew. And it seems to me
that these and such like criterions might establish the genuine
ness of the prophecies, exclusively of all other evidences.
Cor. II. The wildness of our dreams seems to be of singular
use to us, by interrupting and breaking the course of our asso
ciations. For, if we were always awake, some accidental asso
ciations would be so much cemented by continuance, as that
nothing could afterwards disjoin them ; which would be madness.
Cor. III. A person may form a judgment of the state of his
bodily health, and of his temperance, by the general pleasantness
or unpleasantness of his dreams. There are also many useful
hints relating to the strength of our passions deducible from
them.
IMPERFECTIONS, &C. 245
SECT. VI.
IMPERFECTIONS IN THE RATIONAL FACULTY.
Prop. XCII.—To examine how far Deviations from sound
Reason, and Alienations of Mind, are agreeable to the fore
going Theory.
Mad persons differ from others, in that they judge wrong
of past or future facts of a common nature ; that their affections
and actions are violent and different from, or even opposite to,
those of others upon the like occasions, and such as are contrary
to their true happiness ; that their memory is fallacious, and
their discourse incoherent; and that they lose, in great measure,
that consciousness which accompanies our thoughts and actions,
and by which we connect ourselves with ourselves from time to
time. These circumstances are variously combined in the various
kinds and degrees of madness ; and some of them take place in
persons of sound minds, in certain degrees, and for certain spaces
of time : so that here, as in other cases, it is impossible to fix
precise limits, and to determine where soundness of mind ends,
and madness begins. I will make some short remarks, deduced
from the theory of these papers upon the following states of
mind, which all bear some relation to one another, and all differ
from the perfection of reasoning natural to adults, according to
the ordinary course of things, viz.
1. The erroneousness of the judgment in children and idiots.
2. The dotage of old persons.
3. Drunkenness.
4. The deliriums attending acute or other distempers.
.5. The frequent recurrency of the same ideas in a course of
study or otherwise.
6. Violent passions.
7. Melancholy.
8. Madness.
The Erroneousness of the Judgment in Children
and Idiots.
Children often misrepresent past and future facts ; their memory
is fallacious; their discourse incoherent; their affections and actions
disproportionate to the value of the things desired and pursued;
and the connecting consciousness is in them as yet imperfect.
But all this follows naturally from the observations made above
concerning the methods in which we learn to remember and relate
past facts, to judge of future ones, to reason, and to express our
selves suitably to each occasion ; also in which our hopes and
246 IMPERFECTIONS
fears are made to depend upon symbols. No particular account
is therefore required for these phaenomena; they are strictly
natural ; and many of the chief reasons for the imperfection of
the memory and judgment in children occurring perpetually, and
being very obvious, it is not usually supposed, that any particular
account is required. However, if an adult should become subject
to a like erroneousness, it would evidently be one species of
madness; as fatuity or idiotism is. Here the brain labours under
such an original disorder, as either not to receive a disposition
to the miniature vibrations in which ideas consist, and whence
voluntary motions are derived, but with great difficulty; or if it
receive such dispositions readily, they have not the usual per
manency; in both which cases it is evident, that the memory,
with all the faculties thereon depending, must continue in an
imperfect state, such as is observed in idiots. The want of the
connecting consciousness in children and idiots, and indeed in
maniacs of various kinds, excites our pity in a peculiar manner,
this connecting consciousness being esteemed a principal source
and requisite of happiness. Their helplessness, and the dangers
to which they are exposed without foreseeing them, contribute
also to enhance our compassion.
Of Dotage.
The dotage of old persons is oftentimes something more than
a mere decay of memory. For they mistake things present for
others, and their discourse is often foreign to the objects that are
presented to them. However, the imperfection of their memory
in respect of impressions but just made, or at short intervals of
past time, is one principal source of their mistakes. One may
suppose here that the parts of the brain in which the miniature
vibrations belonging to ideas have taken place, are decayed in a
peculiar manner, perhaps from too great use, while the parts
appropriated to the natural, vital, and animal motions remain
tolerably perfect. The sinuses of the brain are probably con
siderably distended in these cases, and the brain itself in a lan
guishing state ; for there seems to be a considerable resemblance
between the inconsistencies of some kinds of dotage, and those of
dreams. Besides which it may be observed, that in dotage the
person is often sluggish and lethargic ; and that as a defect of the
nutritive faculty in the brain will permit the sinuses to be more
easily distended, so a distention of the sinuses, from this or any
other cause, may impede the due nutrition of the brain. We
see that, in old persons, all the parts, even the bones themselves,
waste and grow less. Why may not this happen to the brain,
the origin of all, and arise from an obstruction of the infinitesimal
vessels of the nervous system, this obstruction causing such a
degree of opacity, as greatly to abate, or even to destroy, the
powers of association and memory ? At the same time vibrations,
IN THE RATIONAL FACULTY. 247
foreign to the present objects, may be excited from causes residing
in the brain, stomach, &c. just as in sleep.
Of Drunkenness.
The common and immediate effect of wine is to dispose to joy,
i. 0. to introduce such kinds and degrees of vibrations into the
whole nervous system, or into the separate parts thereof, as are
attended with a moderate continued pleasure. This it seems to
do chiefly by impressing agreeable sensations upon the stomach
and bowels, which are thence propagated into the brain, continue
there, and also call up the several associated pleasures that have
been formed from pleasant impressions made upon the alimentary
duct, or even upon any of the external senses. But wine has
also probably a considerable effect of the same kind, after it is
absorbed by the veins and lacteals, viz. by the impressions which
it makes on the solids, considered as productions of the nerves,
while it circulates with the fluids in an unassimilated state, in the
same manner, as has been already observed of opium ; which
resembles wine in this respect also, that it produces one species
of temporary madness. And we may suppose, that analogous
observations hold with regard to all the medicinal and poisonous
bodies, which are found to produce considerable disorders in the
mind ; their greatest and most immediate effect arises from the
impressions made on the stomach, and the disorderly vibrations
propagated thence into the brain ; and yet it seems probable,
that such particles as are absorbed, produce a similar effect in
circulating with the blood.
Wine, after it is absorbed, must rarefy the blood, and con
sequently distend the veins and sinuses, so as to make them
compress the medullary substance, and the nerves themselves,
both in their origin and progress; it must therefore dispose to
some degree of a palsy of the sensations and motions ; to which
there will be a farther disposition from the great exhaustion of
the nervous capillaments, and medullary substance, which a
continued state of gaiety and mirth, with the various expressions
of it, has occasioned.
It is moreover to be noted, that the pleasant vibrations pro
ducing this gaiety by rising higher and higher perpetually, as
more wine is taken into the stomach and blood-vessels, come at
last to border upon, and even to pass into, the disagreeable
vibrations belonging to the passions of anger, jealousy, envy, &c.
more especially if any of the mental causes of these be presented
at the same time.
Now it seems, that, from a comparison of these and such like
things with each other, and with what is delivered in other parts
of these papers, the peculiar temporary madness of drunken
persons might receive a general explanation. Particularly it
seems natural to expect that they should at first be much dis
248 IMPERFECTIONS
posed to mirth and laughter, with a mixture of small incon
sistencies and absurdities ; that these last should increase from
the vivid trains which force themselves upon the brain, in oppo
sition to the present reality ; that they should lose the command
and stability of the voluntary motions from the prevalence of
confused vibrations in the brain, so that those appropriated to
voluntary motion cannot descend regularly as usual; but that
they should stagger, and see double : that quarrels and con
tentions should arise after some time; and all end at last in a
temporary apoplexy. And it is very observable, that the free
use of fermented liquors disposes to passionateness, to distempers
of the head, to melancholy, and to downright madness ; all which
things have also great connexions with each other.
The sickness and head-ache which drunkenness occasions the
succeeding morning, seem to arise, the first from the immediate
impressions made on the nerves of the stomach ; the second from
the peculiar sympathy which the parts of the head, external as
well as internal, have with the brain, the part principally affected
in drunkenness, by deriving their nerves immediately from it.
Of Deliriums.
I come next to consider the deliriums which sometimes attend
distempers, especially acute ones. In these a disagreeable state
is introduced into the nervous system by the bodily disorder,
which checks the rise of pleasant associations, and gives force and
quickness to disgustful ones; and which consequently would of
itself alone, if sufficient in degree, vitiate and distort all the
reasonings of the sick person. But besides this, it seems, that,
in the deliriums attending distempers, a vivid train of visible
images forces itself upon the patient's eye, and that either from
a disorder in the nerves and blood-vessels of the eye itself, or
from one in the brain, or one in the alimentary duct, or which is
most probable, from a concurrence of all these. It seems also
that the wild discourse of delirious persons is accommodated to
this train in some imperfect manner; and that it becomes so wild,
partly from the incoherence of the parts of this train, partly from
its not expressing even this incoherent train adequately, but
deviating into such phrases as the vibrations excited by the
distemper in the parts of the brain corresponding to the auditory
nerves, or in parts still more internal, and consequently the seats
of ideas purely intellectual, produce by their associated influence
over the organs of speech.
That delirious persons have such trains forced upon the eye
from internal causes, appears probable from hence, that when
they first begin to be delirious, and talk wildly, it is generally at
such times only as they are in the dark, so as to have all visible
objects excluded ; for, upon bringing a candle to them, and
presenting common objects, they recover themselves, and talk
IN THE RATIONAL FACULTY. 249
rationally, till the candle be removed again. For hence we may
conclude, that the real objects overpower the visible train from
internal causes, while the delirium is in its infancy; and that the
patient relapses, as soon as he is shut up in the dark, because
the visible train from internal causes overpowers that which
would rise up, was the person's nervous system in a natural
state, according to the usual course of association, and the recur
rent recollection of the place and circumstances in which he is
situated. By degrees the visible train, from internal causes,
grows so vivid, by the increase of the distemper, as even to
overpower the impressions from real objects, at least frequently,
and in a great degree, and so as to intermix itself with them,
and to make an inconsistency in the words and actions ; and thus
the patient becomes quite delirious.
Persons inclining to be delirious in distempers are most apt to
be so in going to sleep, and in waking from sleep; in which
circumstances the visible trains are more vivid, than when we
are quite awake, as has been observed above.
It casts also some light upon this subject, that tea and coffee
will sometimes occasion such trains ; and that they arise in our
first attempts to sleep after these liquors.
As death approaches, the deliriums attending distempers
abound with far more incoherencies and inconsistencies, than
any other species of alienations of the mind ; which may easily
be conceived to be the natural result of the entire confusion and
disorder which then take place in the nervous system. How
ever, there are some cases of death, where the nervous system
continues free from this confusion to the last, as far as the
by-standers can judge.
The Frequent Recurrency of the same Ideas.
When a person applies himself to any particular study, so as
to fix his attention deeply on the ideas and terms belonging to
it, and to be very little conversant in those of other branches of
knowledge, it is commonly observed, that he becomes narrow-
minded, strongly persuaded of the truth and value of many
things in his own particular study, which others think doubtful
or false, or of little importance, and after some time subject to
low spirits, and the hypochondriacal distemper. Now all this
follows from observations already made. The perpetual recur
rency of particular ideas and terms makes the vibrations belong
ing thereto become more than ordinarily vivid, converts feeble
associations into strong ones, and enhances the secondary ideas
of dignity and esteem, which adhere to them, at the same time
that all these things are diminished in respect of other ideas and
terms that are kept out of view ; and which, if they were to
recur in due proportion, would oppose and correct many asso
ciations in the particular study, which are made not according to
iloO IMPERFECTIONS
the reality of things, and keep down our exorbitant opinions of
its importance. The same perpetual recurrency of vibrations,
affecting one and the same part of the brain, in nearly one and
the same manner, must irritate it at last, so as to enter the
limits of pain, and approach to the states peculiar to fear,
anxiety, despondency, peevishness, jealousy, and the rest of the
tribe of hypochondriacal passions.
Sleep, which presents ideas at hazard, as one may say, and
with little regard to prior associations, seems to be of the greatest
use in keeping off the hypochondriacal distemper in such persons:
however, without a change of studies, this, with great narrow-
mindedness, will probably come at last.
It follows from the same method of reasoning, that since the
concerns of religion are infinite, so that we can never over-rate
them, we ought to make the ideas, motives, and affections, of
this kind, recur as often as possible. And if this be done in a
truly catholic spirit, with all that variety of actions which our
duty to God, our neighbour, and ourselves, requires, there will
be no danger of introducing either narrow-mindedness or hypo-
chondriacism. And it ought to be esteemed the same kind and
degree of alienation of mind to undervalue a thing of great
importance, as to over-value one of small.
Of Violent Passions.
Persons that are under the influence of strong passions, such
as anger, fear, ambition, disappointment, have the vibrations
attending the principal ideas so much increased, that these ideas
cling together, i. e. are associated in an unnatural manner; at
the same time that the eagerness and violence of the passion
prevent the formation of such associations, or obscure them, if
already formed, as are requisite for the right apprehension of the
past and future facts, which are the objects of this passion.
Violent passions must therefore disorder the understanding and
judgment, while they last; and if the same passion return fre
quently, it may have so great an effect upon the associations, as
that the intervention of foreign ideas shall not be able to set
things to rights, and break the unnatural bond. The same
increase of vibrations makes all the principal ideas appear to
affect self, with the peculiar interesting concerns supposed to
flow from personal identity ; so that these vibrations exert a
reflected influence upon themselves by these means. And thus
it appears, that all violent passions must be temporary madnesses, '
and all habits of them permanent ones, agreeably to the judg
ment of the wise and good in these things. It appears also,
that violent fits of passion, and frequent recurrences of them,
must, from the nature of the body, often transport persons, so
that they shall not be able to recover themselves, but fall within
the limits of the distemper called madness emphatically.
IN THE RATIONAL FACULTY. 251
Of Melancholy.
The next species of alienations of the mind is melancholy.
Vapours, hypochondriacal, and hysterical disorders, are compre
hended under this class. The causes of it are self-indulgence in
eating and drinking, and particularly in fermented liquors, want
of due bodily labour, injuries done to the brain by fevers, con
cussions, &c., too much application of the mind, especially to the
same objects and ideas, violent and long-continued passions,
profuse evacuations, and an hereditary disposition ; which last
we may suppose to consist chiefly in an undue make of the
brain.
In women the uneasy states of the uterus are propagated to
the brain, both immediately and mediately, i. e. by first affecting
the stomach, and thence the brain. In men the original disorder
often begins, and continues for a long time, chiefly in the organs
of digestion.
The causa proxima of melancholy is an irritability of the
medullary substance of the brain, disposing it upon slight
occasions to such vibrations as enter the limits of pain ; and
particularly to such kinds and degrees, as belong to the uneasy
passions of fear, sorrow, anger, jealousy, &c. And as these
vibrations, when the passions are not in great excess, do not i
much transgress the limits of pleasure, it will often happen that
hypochondriac and hysteric persons shall be apt to be transported
with joy from trifling causes, and be, at times, disposed to mirth
and laughter. They are also very fickle and changeable, as
having their desires, hopes, and fears, increased far beyond their
natural magnitude, when they happen to fall in with such a state
of brain as favours them.
It often happens to these persons to have very absurd desires,
hopes, and fears ; and yet, at the same time, to know them to be
absurd ; and, in consequence thereof, to resist them. While
they do this, we may reckon the distemper within the bounds
of melancholy ; but when they endeavour to gratify very absurd
desires, or are permanently persuaded of the reality of very
groundless hopes and fears, and especially if they lose the con
necting consciousness in any great degree, and violate the rules
of decency and virtue (the associations of this kind being over
powered, as it were, in the same manner as they are sometimes
in dreams), we may reckon the distemper to have passed into
madness, strictly so called ; of which I now come to speak in a
general brief way.
Of Madness.
The causes of madness are of two kinds, bodily and mental.
That which arises from bodily causes is nearly related to drunk
2o2 IMPERFECTIONS
enness, and to the deliriums attending distempers. That from
mental causes is of the same kind with temporary alienations of
the mind during violent passions, and with the prejudices and
opinionativeness, which much application to one set of ideas
only occasions.
We may thus distinguish the causes for the more easy con
ception and analysis of the subject ; but, in fact, they are both
united for the most part. The bodily cause lays hold of that
passion or affection, which is most disproportionate ; and the
mental cause, when that is primary, generally waits till some
bodily distemper gives it full scope to exert itself. Agreeably to
this, the prevention and cure of all kinds of madness require an
attention both to the body and mind ; which coincides in a
particular manner with the general doctrine of these papers.
It is observed, that mad persons often speak rationally and
consistently upon the subjects that occur, provided that single
one which most affects them, be kept out of view. And the
reason of this may be, that whether they first became mad,
because a particular, original, mental uneasiness falls in with an
accidental bodily disorder; or because an original, bodily disorder
falls in with an accidental mental one ; it must follow, that a
particular set of ideas shall be extremely magnified, and, con
sequently, an unnatural association of sameness or repugnancy
between them generated, all other ideas and associations re
maining nearly the same. Thus, suppose a person, whose nervous
system is disordered, to turn his thoughts accidentally to some
barely possible good or evil. If the nervous disorder falls in with
this, it increases the vibrations belonging to its ideas so much, as
to give it a reality, a connexion with self. For we distinguish
the recollection and anticipation of things relating to ourselves,
from those of things relating to other persons, chiefly by the
difference of strength in the vibrations, and in their coalescences
with each other. When one false position of this kind is
admitted, it begets more of course ; the same bodily and mental
causes also continuing; but then this process stops after a certain
number of false positions are adopted from their mutual in
consistency (unless the whole nervous system be deranged) ;
and it is often confined to a certain kind, as the irascible, the
terrifying, &c.
The memory is often much impaired in madness, which is both
a sign of the greatness of the bodily disorder, and a hindrance to
mental rectification ; and therefore a bad prognostic. If an
opposite state of body and mind can be introduced early, before
the unnatural associations are too much cemented, the madness
is cured ; if otherwise, it will remain, though both the bodily and
mental cause should be at last removed.
Inquiries after the philosopher's stone, the longitude, &c. to
which men are prompted by strong, ambitious, or covetous
desires, are often both cause and effect, in respect of madness.
IN THE RATIONAL FACULTY. 253
Excessive fits of anger and fear are also found often to hurry
persons into madness.
In dissections after madness the brain is often found dry, and
the blood-vessels much distended ; which are arguments, that
violent vibrations took place in the internal parts of the brain,
the peculiar residence of ideas and passions ; and that it was
much compressed, so as to obstruct the natural course of
association.
As in mad persons the vibrations in the internal parts of the
brain are preternaturally increased, so they are defective in the
external organs, in the glands, &c. Hence maniacs eat little, are
costive, make little water, and take scarce any notice of external
impressions. The violence of the ideas and passions may give
them great muscular strength upon particular occasions, when
the violent vibrations descend from the internal parts of the
brain into the muscles, according to former associations of these
with the voluntary motions (the same increase of vibrations in
the internal parts of the brain, which hinders the ascending
vibrations of sensation, augmenting the descending ones of
motion). But maniacs are often very sluggish, as well as in
sensible, from the great prevalence of the ideal vibrations ; just
as persons in a state of deep attention are. An accurate history
of the several kinds of madness from those physicians, who are
much conversant with this distemper, is greatly wanted, and it
would probably receive considerable light from this theory.
Religious considerations are the best preservative in hereditary
or other tendencies to madness ; as being the only sure means of
restraining violent passions, at the same time that they afford a
constant indefinite hope, mixed with a filial awe and fear ; which
things are eminently qualified to keep up a steadiness and
sobriety of mind, and to incite us to such a course of action,
as adds incessantly to the hope, and diminishes the fear. How
ever, bodily labour, with a variety of mental occupations, and a
considerable abstemiousness in the quantity and quality of diet,
ought always to be joined.
SECT. VII.
THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF BRUTES.
Prop. XCIII.—To examine how far the Inferiority of Brutes to
Mankind in intellectual Capacities is agreeable to the foregoing
Theory.
If the doctrines of vibrations and association be found suffi
cient to solve the phaenomena of sensation, motion, ideas, and
THE INTELLECTUAL
affections, in men ; it will be reasonable to suppose, that they will
also be sufficient to solve the analogous phaenomena in brutes.
And, conversely, it seems probable, that an endeavour to apply
and adapt these doctrines to brutes will cast some light and evi
dence upon them, as they take place in men. And thus the
laws of vibrations and association may be as universal in respect
of the nervous systems of animals of all kinds, as the law of cir
culation is with respect to the system of the heart and blood
vessels ; and their powers of sensation and motion be the result
of these three laws, viz. circulation, vibrations, and association,
taken together. These three laws may also be most closely
united in their ultimate cause and source, and flow in all their
varieties from very simple principles. At least this is the tenor
of nature in many similar cases.
As the whole brute creation differs much from, and is far in
ferior to man in intellectual capacities ; so the several kinds of
animals differ much from each other in the same respect. But
I shall, in this Section, confine myself chiefly to the consideration
of the first difference, viz. of that between mankind and the
brute creation in general ; and endeavour to assign such reasons
for it, as flow from, or are agreeable to, the theory of these
papers. We may suppose then, that brutes in general differ
from, and are inferior to man, in intellectual capacities, on the
following accounts :
First, The small proportional size of their brains.
Secondly, The imperfection of the matter of their brains,
whereby it is less fitted for retaining a large number of minia
tures, and combining them by association, than man's.
Thirdly, Their want of words, and such like symbols.
Fourthly, The instinctive powers which they bring into the
world with them, or which rise up from internal causes, as they
advance towards adult age.
Fifthly, The difference between the external impressions made
on the brute creation, and on mankind.
First, then, As the brains of brutes are less in proportion to
the bulk of the other parts, than those of men ; and as the in
ternal parts of the brain appear from these papers to be the
peculiar seat of ideas, and intellectual affections ; it seems very
natural to expect, that brutes should have a far less variety of
these than men. The parts which intervene between the optic
and auditory nerves, being proportionably less, for instance, in
brutes, will not admit of so great a variety of associations between
the several ideas of these senses, because the optic and auditory
nerves cannot have so great a variety of connexions and com
munications with each other.
To this it is to be added, that the internal parts belonging to
the olfactory nerves, and, perhaps, those belonging to the nerves
of taste, take up, probably, a greater proportional part of the
medullary substance of the brain than in us, since most brutes
FACULTIES OF BRUTE'S. 255
have the sense of smell, and perhaps that of taste in greater per
fection than we have. There will therefore be still less room
left for the variety of intercourses between the optic and auditory
nerves in the medullary substance of the brain. And yet it is
evident, from obvious observations, as well as from the whole
tenor of these papers, that the eye and ear, with their associa
tions, are the chief sources of intellect; and that the greatest
part of the pleasures and pains of human life arise from visible
and audible impressions, which in themselves afford neither
pleasure nor pain.
Thus it is natural to expect, that the happiness and misery of
brutes should depend principally, and in a direct manner, on the
impressions made upon their gross senses, whilst that of mankind
arises, in great measure, from long trains of associated ideas and
emotions, which enter chiefly by the eye and ear. And it seems
to me a very striking coincidence, that mankind should at the
same time exceed the brute creation in the variety of their ideas,
and in the proportional largeness of that part of the body which
is the peculiar seat of these.
The same proportional largeness may, as it were, detain the
vibrations which ascend from external impressions up to the
brain, and so prevent that freedom of descent into the muscular
system which takes place in brutes ; and which disposes them to
move more early, and more readily, in consequence of direct im
pressions, than men, at the same time that they have a far less
command, in respect of voluntary motion. But this difference
depends, in great measure, upon the considerations that follow,
as will be seen.
Secondly, That the very constitution and texture of the
nervous system, in its infinitesimal vessels, should differ in
brutes from that of men, appears highly reasonable to be ex
pected. And since the lives of brutes fall, in general, far short
of that of man, also since the quadrupeds (which resemble man
more than other animals) are far more hairy, and fowls have
feathers, it appears probable, that the texture of the nervous
system in brutes should tend more to callosity, and fixedness, in
its dispositions to vibrate, than in men. The brains of young
brute animals will therefore be sooner able to retain miniatures
than those of children, as tending more to firmness and fixedness
in their ultimate texture and constitution ; at the same time that
this texture will unfit them for receiving a variety. To which,
if we add the shortness of their lives, and consequently of their
ascent to the summit of adult age ; which ascent is the proper
time for receiving instruction ; it is easy to see, that on this
double account, as well as that mentioned under the foregoing
head, they must fall far short of mankind in the number of their
intellectual ideas, pleasures, and pains.
It follows from the same method of reasoning, that the few-
dispositions to miniature vibrations, which are generated in
256 THE INTELLECTUAL
brutes, may be as perfect in their kinds ; and consequently the
memory, and short direct ratiocination depending thereon, as
perfect also as the analogous things in man. Nay, they may be
more so, if the particular animal under consideration excel man
in the acuteness and precision of those senses, whose ideas make
a principal part of this ratiocination. Now it appears, that most
quadrupeds exceed us in the acuteness of the smell, and in the
power of distinguishing a variety of smells. And many birds
seem to be able to see distinctly at much greater distances.
However, our auditory nerves, and the regions of the brain
corresponding thereto, appear far better fitted for retaining a
variety of miniatures of articulate sounds ; and our optic nerves,
and the regions of the" brain corresponding thereto, for retaining
a variety of miniatures of shapes and colours. And next to man,
quadrupeds, and particularly monkies, dogs, and horses, seem to
have these regions of the brain in the greatest perfection.
If the texture of the brains of animals here considered be also,
in part, the cause of their being covered with hair, wool, bristles,
feathers, &c. it may, from this its effect, dispose them to greater
strength and expertness in their motions, and that more early,
than happens to men. For all these are electrics per se, and
consequently may first have a considerable degree of this power
communicated to them by the heat of the circulating blood ; and
then, not being able to transmit it to the air, which is also an
electric per se, may reflect it upon the muscles, and thereby
dispose them to somewhat greater activity. It is well known,
that the manes of horses, and backs of cats, are made electric
by their vital powers. It may farther be observed, that the
hoofs of animals are electrics per se, and that the feathers of
water-fowl repel the water; whence the electric virtue may be
kept from running off to the earth and water respectively. How
ever, we ought not to lay much stress upon this electric virtue
in the muscular fibres of brutes (if there be any such virtue) in
order to account for the superior and more early powers of
animals, in respect of ordinary motions. The texture of the fibres
of the muscles, and that of the brain, must have the principal
share in this effect.
It is also to be considered, that as they have far fewer volun
tary motions, on account of having far fewer ideas, so they may
arrive at a greater perfection in the automatic ones, and the
small number of voluntary ones which they do perform, on this
account. Man is distracted, as it were, by the endless variety
of his ideas, and voluntary motions : and it is notorious, that
none besides extraordinary geniuses arrive at perfection in any
considerable variety ; whereas a person of small natural capacity,
by selecting some one branch of science, or manual art, and
applying himself to this alone, may perform wonders. Nay,
there have been instances of persons not much removed from
idiotism, who could perform the arithmetical operations by
FACULTIES OF BRUTES. 257
memory, far better than men of good understandings, well
versed in those operations ; which is a thing somewhat analogous
to the extraordinary sagacity in investigating and concluding,
which brutes discover, in respect of some particular things.
Thirdly, The next circumstance which renders brutes far in
ferior to man in intellectual acquisitions, is their want of symbols,
such as words, whereby to denote objects, sensations, ideas, and
combinations of ideas. This may appear from several consi
derations. Those men who happen to be born in a country
where the mother tongue is copious and precise, who apply
themselves to the study of their mother tongue, who, besides
this, learn one or more foreign tongues, &c. get, by these means,
a considerable share of the knowledge of things themselves, learn
to remark, prove, disprove, and invent, and, cateris paribus,
make a quicker progress in mental accomplishments than others.
On the contrary, the mental improvement of persons born deaf
is extremely retarded by their incapacity of having things sug
gested by articulate sounds, or the pictures of these, and also by
their not being able to solve the inverse problem, and denote
their own trains of thought by adequate symbols. Words are
the same kind of helps in the investigation of qualities, as alge
braical symbols and methods are in respect of quantity, as has
been already remarked. Persons born deaf cannot therefore
make any great progress in the knowledge of causes and effects,
in abstracted and philosophical matters ; but must approach, as it
were, to the state of the brute creation. On the contrary, brute
creatures, that have milch intercourse with mankind, such as dogs
and horses, by learning the use of words and symbols of other
kinds, become more sagacious than they would otherwise be.
And if particular pains be taken with them, their docility and
sagacity, by means of symbols, sometimes arise to a very sur
prising degree.
Parrots might be thought, according to this view of the pre
sent subject, to have some particular advantages over quadrupeds,
by their being able to pronounce words ; since, as has been
observed before, the attempts which children make to apply
words, to things, assist them very much in understanding the
applications made by others. But parrots do not seem to speak
from any particular acuteness and precision in the auditory
nerves, and parts of the brain corresponding thereto, having no
cochlea, but from the perfection and pliableness of their vocal
organs, in which they exceed other birds ; as birds in general do
beasts. And it is reasonable to think, that quadrupeds, which
resemble man so nearly in the make of the organ of hearing, as
well as in other parts, and which also have naturally much more
intercourse with man (being fellow-inhabitants of the earth) than
birds (which inhabit the air), should likewise have a greater
faculty of distinguishing the articulate sounds of man's voice,
retaining their miniatures, and applying them to the things
s
258 THE INTELLECTUAL
signified, than birds ; which seems evidently to be the case.
Sagacious quadrupeds may therefore be said to resemble dumb
persons arrived at adult age, who are possessed of much know
ledge, whjch yet they cannot express, except by gestures, by
dumb show: whereas parrots, as before remarked, resemble chil
dren ; these having many words with very little knowledge annexed
to them.
Apes and monkeys, of the several kinds, seem to approach
nearest to man, in the general faculty of reasoning, and drawing
conclusions; but in particular things, especially where instinct
prevails, some other brutes far exceed them ; as indeed such brutes
do man himself in a few, on account of the peculiar acuteness of
the sense of smell, and the same instinct.
I reckon the want of articulate sounds to be one of the reasons
why brutes are so much inferior to men in intellectual capacities ;
because it appears, from the foregoing and other considerations
of the same kind, that it is so. But this is no imperfection upon
the whole. The proportional smallness of their brains, the tex
ture of these, their instincts, and their external circumstances,
are such, that they do not want language much ; that they could
make no great use of it, had they proper organs for speaking ;
and that they would probably be losers, upon the whole, by
having it. The efficient and final causes are here suited to each
other, as in all other cases; so that no circumstance can be
changed for the better, cteteris manentibus.
Fourthly, Let us come to the instinctive powers of animals.
These are a point of a very difficult consideration. They are
evidently not the result of external impressions, by means of the
miniatures of these, their associations and combinations, in the
manner according to which I have endeavoured to shew that the
rational faculties of mankind are formed and improved ; and yet,
in the instances to which they extend, they very much resemble
the rational faculties of mankind. Animals, in preparing and
providing for themselves and their young, in future exigencies,
proceed in the same manner as a person of good understanding,
who foresaw the event, would do ; and this, even though they be
a little put out of their way. And in this they much resemble
persons of narrow capacities and acquisitions, who yet excel
greatly in some particular art or science; of which there are
many instances. Such persons shew great ingenuity in the
things to which they are accustomed, and in some others that
border upon them within certain limits, so as to shew great
ingenuity still, though put a little out of their way ; but if they
be put much out of their way, or questioned about things that
are entirely foreign to the art or science in which they excel,
they are quite lost and confounded.
Let us suppose this to be the case, and then the inquiry
concerning instinct in brutes will be reduced to this; viz. by what
means the nervous systems of brutes are made to put on dispo
FACULTIES OF BRUTES. 259
sitions to miniature vibrations, analogous to those which take
place in the persons here considered ; and which are in them the
result of foregoing impressions, if we admit the theory of these
papers. Now, to me, there seems no difficulty in ascribing this
to the mere bodily make in brutes, so that miniature vibrations,
such as answer in us to ideas, and voluntary motions, shall spring
up in them at certain ages and seasons of the year, and mix
themselves with impressions, and acquired ideas, so as to be, in
general, suitable to them ; and, in general, to direct the brute
creatures in what manner to provide for, and preserve, themselves
and their young.
This would be a kind of inspiration to brutes, mixing itself
with, and helping out, that part of their faculties which corre
sponds to reason in us, and which is extremely imperfect in
them. Only this inspiration might be called natural, as pro
ceeding from the same stated laws of matter and motion as the
other phaenomena of nature ; whereas the inspiration of the
sacred writers appears to be of a much higher source, so as to be
termed supernatural properly, in contradistinction to all know
ledge resulting from the common laws of nature. And yet it
may result from some higher laws of nature. For sacred in
spiration would lose nothing of its authority, though it should
appear to be within such laws, as by their fixedness might be
termed nature : and, indeed, all differences in these things, after
the facts are once settled, will be found, upon due inquiry, to be
merely verbal.
Fifthly, The last cause here assigned for the great difference
and inferiority of brutes, in respect of intellectual capacities, is
the difference in the events and incidents of their lives. They
converse with far fewer objects than men, and both the objects
and pleasures of feeling, taste, and smell, have a far greater
proportional share in the sum total, than in us. Now, as in
men, the common events and incidents of life give a turn to the
whole frame of mind, and either enlarge the intellectual capa
cities, if they be various, or narrow them, if the same occurrences
return again and again perpetually ; so, independently of all the
foregoing considerations, the sameness, paucity, and relation to
mere sense, of the impressions made on brutes, must infer a great
narrowness of understanding.
From all these things put together, it appears very conceivable
how the mental faculties of brutes should, consistently with the
doctrines of vibrations and association, be what they are, in fact,
found to be. And though I suppose, with Descartes, that all
their motions are conducted by mere mechanism, yet I do not
suppose them to be destitute of perception, but that they have
this in a manner analogous to that which takes place in us; and
that it is subjected to the same mechanical laws as the motions.
Whether the ideal vibrations, which take place in the medullary
substances of their brains, be the result of former impressions, or
2G0 INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF BRUTES.
the mere offspring of their vital and natural powers, agreeably to
the foregoing hypothesis concerning instinct, or the compound
effect of both, which we may presume to be generally the case, I
always suppose, that corresponding feelings, and affections of
mind, attend upon them, just as in us. And the brute creatures
prove their near relation to us, not only by the general resem
blance of the body, but by that of the mind also ; inasmuch as
many of them have most of the eminent passions in some imper
fect degree, and as there is, perhaps, no passion belonging to
human nature, which may not be found in some brute creature
in a considerable degree.
The brutes seem scarce ever able to arrive at any proper self-
interest of the abstract and refined kind, at consciousness, so as
to compare and connect themselves with themselves in different
situations, or at any idea and adoration of God ; and this from
the narrowness of their capacities and opportunities in general,
but particularly from their want of symbols.
The same want of symbols must make all their reasonings and
affections, which resemble ours in the general, be, however, con
siderably different in particulars, and far less complex ; but it is
sufficient to entitle them to the names of sagacity, cunning, fear,
love, &c. by which ours are denoted, that the trains of ideal
vibrations in their brains bear a general resemblance to the
corresponding ones in ours, spring from like causes, and produce
like effects.
The power of association over brutes is very evident in all the
tricks which they are taught ; and the whole nature of each
brute, which has been brought up amongst others of the same
species, is a compound of instinct, his own observation and expe
rience, and imitation of those of his own species. Instinct seems
to have exerted its whole influence when the creature is arrived
at maturity, and has brought up young ; so that nothing new can
be expected from it afterwards. But their intellectual acquisi
tions from observation and imitation continue ; whence old brutes
are far more cunning, and can act far better, pro re nata, than
young ones.
It ought always to be remembered in speaking on this subject,
that brutes have more reason than they can shew, from their
want of words, from our inattention, and from our ignorance of
the import of those symbols, which they do use in giving intima
tions to one another, and to us.
We seem to be in the place of God to them, to be his vice
gerents, and empowered to receive homage from them in his
name. And we are obliged, by the same tenure, to be their
guardians and benefactors.
CHAP. IV.
THE SIX CLASSES OF INTELLECTUAL PLEASURES AND PAINS.
\J have now dispatched the history and analysis of the sensations,
motions, and ideas ; and endeavoured to suit them, as well as I
could, to the principles laid down in the first chapter. My next
business is, to inquire particularly into the rise and gradual in
crease of the pleasures and pains of imagination, ambition, self-
interest, sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense; and to see
how far these can be deduced, in the particular forms and degrees
that are found to prevail, in fact, from the sensible pleasures and
pains, by means of the general law of association. As to that of
vibrations, it seems of little importance in this part of the work,
whether it be adopted or not./If any other law can be made the
foundation of association, or consistent with it, it may also be
made consistent with the analysis of the intellectual pleasures
and pains, which I shall here give. I do not think there is any
other law that can ; on the contrary, there seems to be so pecu
liar an aptness in the doctrine of vibrations, for explaining
many of the phaenomena of the passions, as almost excludes all
others.
( Now it will be a sufficient proof, that all the intellectual
pleasures and pains are deducible ultimately from the sensible
ones, if we can shew of each intellectual pleasure and pain in
particular, that it takes its rise from other pleasures and pains,
either sensible or intellectual. For thus none of the intellectual
pleasures and pains can be original. But the sensible pleasures
and pains are evidently originals. They are therefore the only
ones, i.e. they are the common source from whence all the intel
lectual pleasures and pains are ultimately derived^.
When I say, that the intellectual pleasures A and B are
deducible from one another, I do not mean, that A receives
back again from B that lustre which it had conferred upon it ;
for this would be to argue in a circle ; but that whereas both A
and B borrow from a variety of sources, as well as from each
other, they may, and indeed must, transfer by association, part of
the lustre borrowed from foreign sources upon each other.
262 THE PLEASURES AND
\ If we admit the power of association, and can also shew, that
associations, sufficient in kind and degree, concur, in fact, in the
several instances of our intellectual pleasures and pains, this will
of itself exclude all other causes for these pleasures and pains,
such as instinct, for instance. If we cannot trace out associations
sufficient in kind and degree, still it will not be necessary to have
recourse to other causes, because great allowances are to be made
for the novelty, complexness, and intricacy of the subject. How
ever, on the other hand, analogy may perhaps lead us to conclude,
that as instinct prevails much, and reason a little, in brutes,
so instinct ought to prevail a little in us. Let the facts speak
for themselves. S
SECT. I.
THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF IMAGINATION.
I begin with the pleasures and pains of imagination ; and
shall endeavour to derive each species of them by association,
either from those of sensation, ambition, self-interest, sympathy,
theopathy, and the moral sense, or from foreign ones of imagi
nation. They may be distinguished into the seven kinds that
follow.
First, The pleasures arising from the beauty of the natural
world.
Secondly, Those from the works of art.
Thirdly, From the liberal arts of music, painting, and poetry.
Fourthly, From the sciences.
Fifthly, From the beauty of the person.
Sixthly, From wit and humour.
Seventhly, The pains which arise from gross absurdity, incon
sistency, or deformity.
Prop. XCIV.—To examine how far the just-mentioned Plea
sures and Pains of Imagination are agreeable to the Doctrine
of Association.
The Pleasures arising from the Beauty of the Natural
World.
The pleasures, arising from the contemplation of the beauties
of the natural world seem to admit of the following analysis.
PAINS OF IMAGINATION.
The pleasant tastes, and smells, apd the fine colours of fruits
and flowers, the melody of birds, and the grateful warmth or
coolness of the air, in the proper seasons, transfer miniatures of
these pleasures upon rural scenes, which start up instantaneously
so mixed with each other, and with such as will be immediately
enumerated, as to be separately indiscernible.
If there be a precipice, a cataract, a mountain of snow, &c. in
one part of the scene, the nascent ideas of fear and horror mag
nify and enliven all the other ideas, and by degrees pass into
pleasures by suggesting the security from pain.
In like manner the grandeur of some scenes, and the novelty
of others, by exciting surprise and wonder, i. e. by making a
great difference in the preceding and subsequent states of mind,
so as to border upon, or even enter the limits of pain, may greatly
enhance the pleasure.
Uniformity and variety in conjunction are also principal sources
of the pleasures ofbeauty, _being made so partly by their associa
tion with the beauties of nature, partly by that with the works
of art, and with the many conveniences which we receive from
the uniformity and variety of the works of nature and art. They
must therefore transfer part of the lustre borrowed from the
works of art, and from the head of convenience, upon the works
of nature.
Poetry and painting are much employed in setting forth the
beauties of the natural world, at the same time that they afford
us a high degree of pleasure from many other sources. Hence
the beauties of nature delight poets and painters, and such as are
addicted to the study of their works, more than others. Part of
this effect is indeed owing to the greater attention of such
persons to the other sources ; but this comes to the same thing,
as far as the general theory of the factitious, associated nature of
these pleasures is concerned.
The many sports and pastimes, which are peculiar to the
country, and whose ideas and pleasures are revived by the view
of rural scenes, in an evanescent state, and so mixed together as
to be separately indiscernible, do farther augment the pleasures
suggested by the beauties of nature.
To these we may add, the opposition between the offensiveness,
dangers, and corruption of populous cities, and the health, tran
quillity, and innocence, which the actual view, or the mental
contemplation, of rural scenes introduces ; also, the pleasures of
sociality and mirth, which are often found in the greatest perfec
tion in country retirements, the amorous pleasures, which have
many connexions with rural scenes ; and those which the opinions
and encomiums of others beget in us, in this, as in other cases,
by means of the contagiousness observable in mental dispositions,
as well as bodily ones.
Those persons who have already formed high ideas of the
power, knowledge, and goodness of the Author of nature, with
264 THE PLEASURES AND
suitable affections, generally feel the exalted pleasures of devo
tion upon every view and contemplation of Hj§_work.S». either in
an explicit and distinct manner, or in a more secret and implicit
one. Hence, part of the general indeterminate pleasures, here
considered, is deducible from the pleasures of theopatliv.
We must not omit in this place to remind the reader of a
remark made above, viz. that green, which is the middle colour
of the seven primary ones, and consequently the most agreeable
to the organ of sight, is also the general colour of the vegetable
kingdom, i. e. of external nature.
These may be considered as some of the principal sources of
the beauties of nature to mankind in general. Xnquisitive and
philosophical persons have some others, arising from their pecu
liar knowledge and study of natural history, astronomy, and
philosophy, in general. For the profusion of beauties, uses,
fitnesses, elegance in minute things, and magnificence in great
ones, exceeds all bounds of conception, surprise, and astonish
ment ; new scenes, and those of unbounded extent, separately
considered, ever presenting themselves to view, the more any one
studies and contemplates the works of God.
And upon the whole, the reader may see, that there are
sufficient sources for all those pleasures of imagination, which
the beauties of nature excite in different persons ; and that the
differences which are found in different persons in this respect,
are sufficiently analogous to the differences of their situations in
life, and of the consequent associations formed in them.
An attentive person may also, in viewing or contemplating
the beauties of nature, lay hold, as it were, of the remainders
and miniatures of many of the particular pleasures here enume
rated, while they recur in a separate state, and before they
coalesce with the general indeterminate aggregate, and thus
verify the history now proposed.
It is a confirmation of this history, that an attentive person
may also observe great differences in the kind and degree of the
relish which he has for the beauties of nature in different periods
of his life ; especially as the kind and degree may be found to
agree in the main with this history.
To the same purpose we may remark, that these pleasures do
not cloy very soon, but are of a lasting nature, if compared
with the sensible ones; since this follows naturally from the
great variety of their sources, and the evanescent nature of their
constituent parts.
When a beautiful scene is first presented, there is generally
great pleasure from surprise, from being struck with objects and
circumstances which we did not expect. This presently declines;
but is abundantly compensated afterwards by the gradual alter
nate exaltation of the several constituent parts of the complex
pleasures, which also do probably enhance one another. And
thus we may take several reviews of the same scene, before the
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 265
pleasure, which it affords, comes to its maximum. After this the
pleasure must decline, if we review it often : but if at consi- /
derable intervals, so as that many foreign states of mind intervene,
also so as that new sources of the pleasures of this kind be
broken up, the pleasure may recur for many successions of nearly
the same magnitude.
The same observations hold in respect of the pleasures from
the beauties of nature in general, and indeed from all the other
sources, works of art, liberal arts, sciences, &c. These all strike
and surprise the young mind at first, but require a considerable
time before they come to their maximum ; after which some or
other will always be at its maximum for a considerable time.
However, the pleasures of imagination in general, as well as
each particular set and individual, must decline at last from the
nature of our frame. In what manner they ought to decline, so
as to be consistent with our summum bonum, by yielding, in due
time, to more exalted and pure pleasures, whose composition
they enter, I will endeavour to show hereafter.
These pleasures are a principal source of those which are
annexed to the view of uniformity with variety, as above noted,
*. e. of analogies of various orders ; and consequently are a prin
cipal incitement to our tracing out real analogies, and forming
artificial ones.
The novel, the grand, and the marvellous, are also most con
spicuous in the. works of nature ; and the last strikes us parti
cularly in many of the phaenomena of nature, by seeming to
exceed all bounds of credibility, at the same time that we are
certified by irrefragable evidences of the truth of the facts.
The satiety which every pleasure begets in us, after some con
tinuance, makes us thirst perpetually after the grand and novel ;
and, as it were, grasp at infinity in number and extent; there
being a kind of tacit expectation, that the pleasure will be in
in proportion to the magnitude and variety of the causes, in the
same manner as we observe, in other cases, the effects to be in
some degree proportional to their causes.
The pleasures of novelty decline not only in this class, but
also in all the others, sensible and intellectual, partly from our
bodily frame, partly from the intermixture, and consequent associ
ation, of neutral circumstances (i. e. such as afford neither pleasure
nor pain) in their successive recurrences.
A disposition to a pleasurable state is a general attendant
upon health, and the integrity of our bodily faculties ; and that
in such a degree, as that actual pleasure will spring up from
moderate incitements, from the transient introduction of the
associated circumstances of former pleasurable states. If the
body be indisposed in some degree, it is, however, possible to
force it into a state of pleasure by the vivid introduction of
various and powerful circumstances : but this unnatural state
cannot last long; and, if the indisposition to pleasure be great,
266 THE PLEASURES AND
it cannot be introduced at all. On the contrary, where the
disposition to pleasure is preternaturally prevalent, as after wine
and opium, and in certain morbid cases, the least hint will excite
profuse joy, leaning chiefly to the pleasures of imagination,
ambition, sympathy, or devotion, according to the circumstances.
It is easy to see how the doctrine of vibrations, which appears
to be the only one that admits of permanent states of motion,
and disposition to motion, in the brain, suits these last remarks
in a peculiar manner.
The Beauties of the Works of Art.
The works of art, which afford us the pleasures of beauty,
are chiefly buildings, public and private, religious, civil, and
military, with their appendages and ornaments, and machines of
the several kinds, from the great ones employed in war, com
merce, and public affairs, such as ships, military engines,
machines for manufacturing metals, &c. down to clocks, watches,
and domestic furniture. The survey of these things, when per
fect in their kinds, affords great pleasures to the curious ; and
these pleasures increase for a certain time, by being cultivated
and gratified, till at last they come to their height, decline, and
give way to others, as has been already observed of the pleasures
arising from the beauties of nature.
The chief sources of the pleasures which the fore-mentioned
works of art afford, appear to be the following :—the beautiful
illuminations from gay colours : the resemblance which the play
things, that pleased us when we were children, bear to them ; the
great regularity and variety observable in them ; the grandeur
and magnificence of some, and the neatness and elegance of
others, and that especially if they be small ; the fitness to
answer useful ends ; their answering a multiplicity of these by
simple means, or by analogous complex ones, not exceeding
certain limits in complexness ; the knowledge conveyed in many
cases ; the strong associations with religion, death, war, justice,
power, riches, titles, high birth, entertainments, mirth, &c.
fashion, with the opinions and encomiums of persons supposed
to be judges; the vain desire of having a taste, and of being
thought connoisseurs and judges, &c. &c.
In architecture there are certain proportions of breadths,
lengths, depths, and entire magnitudes, to each other, which are
by some supposed to be naturally beautiful, just as the simple
ratios of 1 to 2, 2 to 3, S to 4, &c. in music, yield sounds which
are naturally pleasant to the ear. But it rather seems to me,
that economical convenience first determined the ratios of doors,
windows, pillars, &c. in a gross way, and then that the con
venience of the artist fixed this determination to some few exact
ratios, as in the proportion between the lengths and breadths of
the pillars. of the several orders. Afterwards these proportions
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 267
became associated so often with a variety of beauties in costly
buildings, that they could not but be thought naturally beautiful
at last. In merely ornamental parts the beauty of the proportions
seems to arise entirely either from fashion, or from a supposed
resemblance to something already fixed as a beautiful proportion.
It is easy from, these principles to account for the prevalency
of different proportions, and general tastes, in different ages and
countries.
The Pleasures arising from Music, Painting, and
Poetry.
Let us next consider the three liberal and sister arts of music,
painting, and poetry.
Of Music.
Now, in respect of music, it is to be observed, that the simple
sounds of all uniform sonorous bodies, and particularly the single
notes of the several musical instruments, also all the concords,
or notes, whose vibrations bear to each other the simple ratios of
1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3 to 4, &c. sounded together, or near to each
other, may be considered as originally pleasant to the ear.
Discords are originally unpleasant, and therefore, as in other
like cases, may be made use of to heighten our pleasures, by
being properly and sparingly introduced, so as to make a strong
contrast. To which if we add the uniformity and variety ob
servable in all good music, we shall have the chief pleasures
affecting children and young persons, upon their being first
accustomed to hear music.
By degrees the discords become less and less harsh to the ear,
and at last even pleasant, at least by their associations with the
concords, that go before or follow them ; so that more, and also
more harsh discords, are perpetually required to give a relish, and
keep the sweetness of the concords from cloying. Particular
kinds of air and harmony are associated with particular words,
affections, and passions, and so are made to express these ;
besides which there is often a natural aptitude in the music to
represent the affection, as in quick music, and concords to repre
sent mirth. Music in general is connected with gaiety, public
rejoicings, the amorous pleasures, riches, high rank, &c. or with
battles, sorrow, death, and religious contemplations. There is
an ambition to excel in taste, in performance, and in composition,
and a difficulty which enhances the pleasure, &c. &c. till by
these and such like ways, the judgments and tastes of different
persons, in respect of music, become as different as we find them
to be in fact.
268 THE PLEASURES AND
Of Painting.
Our pleasures from pictures are very nearly related to those
of imitation, which, as observed above, take up a considerable
part of our childhood; and the several playthings representing
men, houses, horses, &c. with which children are so much de
lighted, are to be considered, both as augmenting and gratifying
this taste in them.
To this it is to be added, that as the ideas of sight are the most
vivid of all our ideas, and those which are chiefly laid up in the
memory as keys and repositories to the rest, pictures, which are
something intermediate between the real object and the idea,
and therefore in cases of sufficient likeness more vivid than the
idea, cannot but please us by thus gratifying our desire of raising
up a complete idea of an absent object. This an attentive
person may observe in himself in viewing pictures.
The surprise and contrast which arise in children, upon their
seeing persons and objects present in their pictures, which yet
they know to be absent, by striking the mind with the impossible
conception of the same thing in two places, are probably the
sources of considerable pleasure to them.
To these causes let us add the gay colours, and fine orna
ments, which generally go along with pictures; and we shall
have the chief sources of the pleasures which painting afFords to
young persons, and to those who have not yet been much affected
with the various incidents of life, and their representations, or
acquired a taste and skill in these things.
For, after this, the pleasures arising from pictures are quite
of another kind, being derived from the same sources as those
that belong to the scenes, affections, and passions represented,
from the poetical descriptions of these, from the precise justness
of the imitation, from ambition, fashion, the extravagant prices
of the works of certain masters, from association with the villas
and cabinets of the noble, the rich, and the curious, &c. &c.
The nature of the caricatura, burlesque, grotesque, pic
turesque, &c. may be understood from what is delivered in other
parts of this Section, concerning laughter, wit, humour, the
marvellous, absurd, &c. to which they correspond.
Painting has a great advantage over verbal description, in
respect of the vividness and number of ideas to be at once excited
in the fancy; but its compass is, upon the whole, much nar
rower ; and it is also confined to one point of time.
The representations of battles, storms, wild beasts, and other
objects of horror, in pictures, please us peculiarly, partly from
the near alliance which the ideas suggested bear to pain, partly
from the secret consciousness of our own security, and partly
because they awaken and agitate the mind sufficiently to be
strongly affected with the other pleasures, which may then be
offered to it.
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 2G9
Of Poetry.
The beauties and excellencies of good poetry are deducible
from three sources. First, The harmony, regularity, and variety
of the numbers or metre, and of the rhyme. Secondly, The
fitness and strength of the words and phrases. Thirdly, The
subject matter of the poem, and the invention and judgment
exerted by the poet in regard to his subject. And the beauties
arising from each of these are much transferred upon the other
two by association. /
That the versification has of itself a considerable influence,
may be seen by putting good poetical passages into the order of
prose. And it may be accounted for from what has been already
observed of uniformity and variety, from the smoothness and
facility with which verses run over the tongue, from the frequent
coincidence of the end of the sentence, and that of the verse, at
the same time that this rule is violated at proper intervals in all
varieties, lest the ear should be tired with too much sameness,
from the assistance which versification affords to the memory,
from some faint resemblance which it bears to music, and its fre
quent associations with it, &c. &c.
<f The beauties of the diction arise chiefly from the figures ; and
therefore it will be necessary here to inquire into the sources of
their beauties.
Now figurative words seem to strike and please us chiefly from
that impropriety which appears at first sight, upon their appli
cation to the things denoted by them, and from the consequent
heightening of the propriety as soon as it is duly perceived. For
when figurative words have recurred so often as to excite the
secondary idea instantaneously, and without any previous harsh
ness to the imagination, they lose their peculiar beauty and force;
and in order to recover this, and make ourselves sensible of it,
we are obliged to recall the literal sense, and to place the literal
and figurative senses close together, that so we may first be
sensible of the inconsistency, and then be more affected with the
union and coalescence, y'
V\Besides this, figurative expressions illuminate our discourses
and writings by transferring the properties, associations, and
emotions, belonging to one thing upon another, by augmenting,
diminishing, &c. and thus, according as the subject is ludicrous
or grave, they either increase our mirth and laughter, or excite
in us love, tenderness, compassion, admiration, indignation, terror,
devotion, &c.
When figures are too distant, or too obscure, when they aug
ment or diminish too much, we are displeased ; and the principal
art in the use of figures is to heighten, as far as the imagination
will permit, the greatest beauty lying upon the confines of what
disgusts by being too remote or bombast. And this extreme
limit for figurative expressions shews evidently, that the pleasure
270 THE PLEASURES AND
arising from them is nearly allied to pain ; and jheir beauty
owing to a certain kind and degree of inconsistency. )
<^However, as the various figures used in speaking and writing
have great influences over each other, alter, and are much altered,
as to their relative energy, by our passions, customs, opinions,
constitutions, educations, &c. there can be no fixed standard for
determining what is beauty here, or what is the degree of it.
Every person may find, that his taste in these things receives
considerable changes in his progress through life ; and may, by
careful observation, trace up these changes to the associations
that have caused them. And yet, since mankind have a general
resemblance to each other, both in their internal make and
external circumstances, there will be some general agreements
about these things common to all mankind. The agreements
will also become perpetually greater, as the persons under con
sideration are supposed to agree more in their genius, studies,
external circumstances, &c. Hence may be seen, in part, the
foundation of the general agreements observable in critics, con
cerning the beauties of poetry, as well as that of their particular
disputes and differences. S
It may also be proper to remark here, that the custom of
introducing figures in a copious manner into poetry, together
with the transpositions, ellipses, superfluities, and high-strained
expressions, which the laws of the versification have forced the
best poets upon in some cases, have given a sanction to certain
otherwise unallowable liberties of expression, and to a moderate
degree of obscurity, and even converted them into beauties. To
which it may be added, that a momentary obscurity is like a
discord in music properly introduced.
The pleasure which we receive from the matter of the poem,
and the invention and judgment of the poet, in this respect,
arises from the things themselves described or represented. It
is necessary therefore, that the poet should choose such scenes as
are beautiful, terrible, or otherwise strongly affecting, and such
characters as excite love, pity, just indignation, &c. or rather,
that he should present us with a proper mixture of all these.
For, as they will all please singly, so a well-ordered succession
of them will much enhance these separate pleasures, by the con
trasts, analogies, and coincidences, which this may be made to
introduce. In all these things the chief art is to copy nature so
well, and to be so exact in all the principal circumstances relating
to actions, passions, &c. *. e. to real life, that the reader may be
insensibly betrayed into a half belief of the truth and reality of
the scene.
Verses well pronounced affect us much more, than when they
merely pass over the eye, from the imitation of the affections and
passions represented, by the human voice ; and still much more,
when acted well, and heightened by the proper conjunction of
realizing circumstances.
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 271
Since poetry makes use of words, which are the principal
channel of mutualcommunication for our thoughts and affections,
and has by this means an unlimited compass in respect of time,
place, &c. it must, upon the whole, have great advantages over
painting.
As the pleasures of imagination are very prevalent, and much
cultivated, during youth ; so, if we consider mankind as one great
individual, advancing in age perpetually, it seems natural to
expect, that in the infancy of knowledge, in the early ages of the
world, the taste of mankind would turn much upon the pleasures
of this class. And agreeably to this it may be observed, that
music, painting, and poetry, were much admired in ancient times ;
and the two last brought to great perfection. What was the real
perfection of the ancient Grecian music, also how far the modern
very artificial compositions ought to be allowed to excel them,
must be left to those who are judges of these matters.
rTThe beauties of oratory are very nearly allied to those of
poetry, arising partly from an harmonious flow and cadence of
the periods, so that uniformity and variety may be properly
mixed, partly from the justness and nervousness of the expressions,
and partly from the force of the arguments and motives brought
together by the invention of the orator, and so disposed as to
convince the judgment, excite and gain the affections. In both
cases it is very necessary, that the reader or hearer should con
ceive favourably of the design and author, in a moral light.
Poetry has the advantage of oratory, in respect of the sweetness
of the numbers, and boldness of the figures; but oratory, being
a real thing, and one which has great influence in many the most
important transactions, does, by this reality, affect some persons
more than poetry; I mean persons that are mere readers or
hearers; for, as to those that are interested in the debate, to
whom it is a reality, there can be no doubt.\
The beauties of history will easily be understood from what is
said of poetry and oratory.
It is to be observed, that poetry, and all fictitious history,
borrow one chief part of their influence from their being imita
tions of real history, as this again does from the strong affections
and passions excited by the events of life, and from the con
tagiousness of our tempers and dispositions.
The same kind of contrasts and coincidences, which, in low
and comic things, would be wit or humour, become the brilliant
passages that affect and strike us most eminently in grave poetry,
in oratory, and history.
The Pleasures arising from the Study of the Sciences.
The study of the sciences has a great connexion with the
natural and artificial beauties already considered, and receives
great lustre from them in consequence thereof.
272 THE PLEASURES AND
But besides this, there are many original sources of pleasure
in the study of the sciences : as, First, From the many instances
of uniformity with variety : Secondly, From the marvellous and
seemingly impossible which occur in all parts of knowledge:
Thirdly, From the great advantages respecting human life, which
accrue to mankind in general from the pursuit of knowledge,
also from the honours, riches, &c. which are the rewards conferred
upon particular persons that are eminent; Lastly, From the
numerous connexions of truth of all kinds with those most
amiable and important doctrines, which religion, natural and
revealed, teaches us. And when these pleasures, in the several
subordinate kinds and degrees, have been sufficiently associated
with the favourite study, they render it at last pleasant in itself,
as we usually term it, i. e. these several particular pleasures
coalesce into a single general one, in which the compounding
parts cannot be discerned separately from each other, and which
consequently appears to have no relation to its several com
pounding parts ; unless when by a particular attention to, and
examination of, what passes in our minds, we lay hold of the last
compounding parts before their entire coalescence, or reason upon
the causes of these pleasures, by comparing their growth, and
the changes made in them, with the concomitant circumstances.
Thus if it be observed as a general fact, that persons grow fond
of particular studies, remarkably after having received some great
present advantage, or hope of a future one from them, we may
reasonably presume, that the pleasure which they take in these
studies, is in part derived from this source, even though it cannot
be felt to arise from it explicitly.
Of Invention.
^The copiousness and quickness of the invention being principal
requisites for the cultivation of the arts ami sciences with success,
I will say something concerning invention here, my subject being
now sufficiently opened for that purpose.
Invention then may be defined the art of producing new beauties
in works of imagination, and new truths in matters of science.
And it seems to depend, in both cases, chiefly upon these three
things. First, A strong and quick memory : Secondly, An ex
tensive knowledge in the arts and sciences; and particularly~ln
those that are contiguous to, or not far distant from, that under
consideration : and, Thirdly, The habit of forming and pursuing
analogies, the deviations from these and the subordinate analogies
in many of these first deviations, &c. &c. ^
First, A strong and quick memory is necessary, that so the
ideas of the poet or philosopher may depend upon, and be readily
suggested by, each other.
Secondly, He must have a large stock of ideas for the pur
poses of figures, illustrations, comparisons, arguments, motives,
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 273
criterions, &c. And it is evident that the ideas taken from such
parts of knowledge, as are pretty nearly allied to his particular
study, will be of most use to him in it.
<f Thirdly, Analogy will lead him by degrees, in works of fancy,
from the beauties of celebrated masters to others less and less
resembling these, till at last he arrives at such as bear no visible
resemblance. Deviations, and the subordinate analogies con
tained within them, will do this in a much greater degree ; and
all analogies will instruct him how to model properly such entirely
new thoughts as his memory and acquaintance with things have
suggested to him. In science analogy leads on perpetually to
new propositions ; and being itself some presumption of truth, is
a guide much preferable to mere imagination.
It may be observed, that the trains of visible ideas, which
accompany our thoughts, are the principal fund for invention,
both in matters oT fancy and in science.^
As invention requires the three things here spoken of, so,
conversely, no person who is possessed of them, and who applies
himself to any particular study either of the imaginative or
abstract kind, with sufficient assiduity, can fail for want of in
vention. And the nature of this faculty seems as reconcilable
with, and deducible from, the power of association, and the
mechanism of the mind here explained, as that of any other.
The Beauty of the Person.
The word beauty is applied to the person, particularly in the
female sex, in an eminent manner ; and the desires and pleasures
arising from beauty, in this sense, may be considered as an inter
mediate step between the gross sensual ones, and those of pure
esteem and benevolence ; for they are, in part, deduced from
both these extremes ; they moderate, spiritualize, and improve
the first, and, in the virtuous, are ultimately converted into
the last.
But they arise' also from many other sources in their inter
mediate state, particularly from associations with the several
beauties of nature and art already mentioned, as of gay colours,
rural scenes, music, painting, and poetry ; from associations with
fashion, the opinions and encomiums of others, riches, honours,
high birth, &c. from vanity and ambition, &c. Besides which,
the pleasure of gratifying a strong desire, and the pain of dis
appointment, are to be considered here, as being evidently
distinguishable from all the rest in some cases.
That part of beauty which arises from symmetry, may perhaps
be said to consist in such proportions of the features of the face,
and of the head, trunk, and limbs, to each other, as are inter
mediate in respect of all other proportions, i. e. such proportions
as would result from an estimation by an average : one may say
T
274 THE PLEASURES AND
at least, that these proportions would not differ much from perfect
symmetry.
The desires excited by the beauty of the person increase for
some time, especially if the sensible ones are not gratified, and
there be also a mixture of hope and fear, in the relation to the
attainment of the affections of the beloved person. But they
sometimes decrease, like other desires, from mere want of novelty,
after the affections are gained ; and must always do so after grati
fication. Nevertheless, if there be the proper foundation for
esteem and religious affection in each party, mutual love, with
the pleasures arising from it, may increase upon the whole, the
real circumstances of life affording more than sufficient oppor
tunity for gaining in one respect what is lost in another.
The beauty of the air, gesture, motions, and dress, has a great
connexion with the beauty of the person, or rather makes a
considerable part of it, contributing much to the sum total ; and
when considered separately, receiving much from the other part
of the beauties of the person. The separate beauty of these
things arises from some imitation of a natural or artificial beauty
already established, from fashion, high birth, riches, &c. or from
their being expressive of some agreeable or amiable quality of
mind. The reciprocal influences of our ideas upon each other,
and the endless variety of their combinations, are eminently con
spicuous in this article; the strength of desire here rendering
the associations, with the several steps previous to the perfect
coalescence of the ideas associated, more visible than most other
cases.
Wit and Humour.
I come now to examine the pleasures of mirth, wit, and
humour.
But, first, it will be necessary to consider the causes of
laughter, and particularly the mental ones.
Now it may be observed, that young children do not laugh
aloud for some months. The first occasion of doing this seems
to be a surprise, which brings on a momentary . fear first, and
then a momentary joy in consequence of the removal of that fear,
agreeably to what may be observed of the pleasures that follow
the removal of pain. This may appear probable, inasmuch as
laughter is a nascent cry, stopped of a sudden ; also because if
the same surprise, which makes young children laugh, be a very
little increased, they will cry. It is usual, by way of diverting
young children, and exciting them to laughter, to repeat the
surprise, as by clapping the hands frequently, reiterating a sudden
motion, &c.
This is the original of laughter in children, in general; but
the progress in each particular is much accelerated, and the
occasions multiplied, by imitation. They learn to laugh, as they
learn to talk and walk; and are most apt to laugh profusely,
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 275
when they see others laugh ; the common cause contributing
also in a great degree to produce this effect. The same thing is
evident even in adults ; and shews us one of the sources of the
sympathetic affections.
To these things it is to be added, that the alternate motions
of the chest follow the same degrees of mental emotion with more
and more facility perpetually, so that at last children (who are
likewise more exquisitively sensible and irritable than adults)
laugh upon every trifling occasion.
By degrees they learn the power of suspending the actions
both of laughing and crying, and associate this power with a
variety of ideas, such as those of decency, respect, fear, and
shame : the incidents and objects, which before occasipned emo
tion sufficient to produce laughter, now occasion little or none,
from the transmutation of their associations : their new associated
pleasures and pains are of a more sedate kind, and do not affect
them so much by surprise ; and, which is a principal cause in
respect of individuals, their equals laugh less, and, by forming
them to the same model with themselves, make the disposition
to laughter decrease still faster. For whatever can be shewn to
take place at all in human nature, must take place in a much
higher degree than according to the original causes, from our
great disposition to imitate one another, which has been already
explained.
It confirms this account of laughter that it follows tickling, as
noted above, i. e. a momentary pain and apprehension of pain,
with an immediately succeeding removal of these, and their alter
nate recurrency ; also that the softer sex, and all nervous persons,
are much disposed both to laugh and cry profusely, and to pass
quickly from one state to the other. And it may deserve to be
inquired, how far the profuse, continued laughter and mirth on
one hand, sorrow, hanging the lip, and crying, on the other,
which occur in madness, agree with it.
As children learn the use of language, they learn to laugh at
sentences or stories, by which sudden alarming emotions and
expectations are raised in them, and again dissipated instan
taneously. And as they learnt before by degrees to laugh at
sudden unexpected noises, or motions, where there was no fear,
or no distinguishable one, so it is, after some time, in respect of
words. Children, and young persons, are diverted by every little
jingle, pun, contrast, or coincidence, which is level to their
capacities, even though the harshness and inconsistency, with
which it first strikes the fancy, be so minute as scarce to be
perceived. And this is the origin of that laughter which is
excited by wit, humour, buffoonery, &c.
But this species of laughter abates also by degrees, as the
other before considered did, and, in general, for the same causes ;
so that adults, and especially those that are judges of politeness
and propriety, laugh only at such strokes of wit and humour, as
T 2
276 THE PLEASURES AND
surprise by some more than ordinary degree of contrast or
coincidence ; and have at the same time a due connexion with
pleasure and pain, and their several associations of fitness,
decency, inconsistency, absurdity, honour, shame, virtue, and
vice ; so as neither to be too glaring on the one hand, nor too
faint on the other. In the first case, the representation raises
dislike and abhorrence ; in the last, it becomes insipid.
From hence may be seen, that in different persons the occa
sions of laughter must be as different as their opinions and
dispositions ; that low similitudes, allusions, contrasts, and coinci
dences, applied to grave and serious subjects, must occasion the
most profuse laughter in persons of light minds; and, conversely,
increase this levity of mind, and weaken the regard due to things
sacred; that the vices of gluttony, lewdness, vain-glory, self-
conceit, and covetousness, with the concomitant pleasures and
pains, hopes, fears, dangers, &c. when represented by indirect
circumstances, and the representation heightened by contrasts
and coincidences, must be the most frequent subject of mirth,
wit, and humour, in this mixed degenerate state, where they are
censured upon the whole ; and yet not looked upon with a due
degree of severity, distance, and abhorrence; that company,
feasting, and wine, by putting the body into a pleasurable state,
must dispose to laughter upon small occasions; and that persons
who give themselves much to mirth, wit, and humour, must
thereby greatly disqualify their understandings for the search
after truth ; inasmuch as by the perpetual hunting after apparent
and partial agreements and disagreements, as in words, and
indirect accidental circumstances, whilst the true natures of the
things themselves afford real agreements and disagreements,
that are very different, or quite opposite, a man must by degrees
pervert all his notions of things themselves, and become unable
to see them as they really are, and as they appear to considerate
sober-minded inquirers. He must lose all his associations of the
visible ideas of things, their names, symbols, &c. with their useful
practical relations and properties ; and get, in their stead, acci
dental, indirect, and unnatural conjunctions of circumstances,
that are really foreign to each other, or oppositions of those that
are united ; and after some time, habit and custom will fix these
upon him.
The most natural occasions of mirth and laughter in adults
seem to be the little mistakes and follies of children, and the
smaller inconsistencies and improprieties which happen in con
versation, and the daily occurrences of life ; inasmuch as these
pleasures are, in great measure, occasioned, or at least supported,
by the general pleasurable state, which our love and affection to
our friends in general, and to children in particular, put the
body and mind into. For this kind of mirth is always checked
where we have a dislike ; also where the mistake or inconsistency
rises beyond a certain limit ; for then it produces concern, con
PAINS OF IMAGINATION. 277
fusion, and uneasiness. And it is useful not only in respect of
the good effects which it has upon the body, and the present
amusement and relaxation that it affords to the mind ; but also
because it puts us upon rectifying what is so amiss, or any other
similar error, in one another, or in children ; and has a tendency
to remove many prejudices from custom and education. Thus
we often laugh at children, rustics, and foreigners, when yet
they act right, according to the truly natural, simple, and uncor-
rupted dictates of reason and propriety, and are guilty of no
other inconsistency than what arises from the usurpations of
custom over nature ; and we often take notice of this, and correct
ourselves, in consequence of being diverted by it.
Inconsistency, Deformity, and Absurdity.
Having now considered, in a short and general way, all the
pleasures that seem properly to belong to the head of imagina
tion, I will say something concerning the pains of this class, viz.
those which arise from the view of gross inconsistency, absurdity,
and deformity. Here we may observe,
First, That these pains are the root and source of many of the
fore-mentioned pleasures, particularly those arising from figura
tive expressions, and of wit and humour, as has been shewn in
treating of these things.
Secondly, That the disgust and uneasiness here considered
never rise to any very great height, unless some of the pains of
sympathy, or of the moral sense, mix themselves with them.
From whence it seems to follow, that the mere pleasures of
imagination and beauty are also of a kind much inferior to those
of sympathy, and the moral sense.
The perplexity, confusion, and uneasiness, which we labour
under in abstruse inquiries, philosophical, moral, and religious,
ought, perhaps, to be referred to this head. Also the secondary
perplexity which arises from our being subject to this perplexity,
confusion, and uneasiness. However, all this is to be accounted
for as any other evil, and does not seem to be attended either
with greater or less difficulties. No perplexity can give us
more than a limited degree of pain ; and all our perplexities have
probably both the same general good effects as our other pains ;
and also, like each of these, some good effects peculiar to them
selves.
We may now observe upon the whole, that according to the
foregoing history of the pleasures of imagination, there must be
great differences in the tastes and judgments of different persons ;
and that no age, nation, class of men, &c. ought to be made the
test of what is most excellent in artificial beauty ; nor, conse
quently, of what is absurd. The only things that can be set up
as natural criterions here, seem to be uniformity with variety,
usefulness in general, and the particular subserviency of this or
278 THE PLEASURES AND
that artificial beauty to improve the mind, so as to make it suit
best with our present circumstances, and future expectations.
How all these criterions consist with each other, and unite in the
single criterion of religion, of the love of God, and of our neigh
bour, understood in the comprehensive sense of these words, I
shall endeavour to shew hereafter.
SECT. II.
THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF AMBITION.
Prop. XCV.—To examine how far the Pleasures and Pains of
Ambition are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
The opinions of others concerning us, when expressed by
corresponding words or actions, are principal sources of happi
ness or misery. The pleasures of this kind are usually referred
to the head of honour ; the pains to that of shame ; but as it is
most convenient to have a single word, to which to refer both
the pleasures and pains of this class, I have made choice of
ambition for that purpose. It will therefore be our business,
under this proposition, to inquire by what association it is
brought about, that men are solicitous to have certain particulars
concerning themselves made known to the circle of their friends
and acquaintance, or to the world in general ; and certain others
concealed from them ; and also, why all marks and evidences,
that these two several kinds of particulars are made known, so as
to beget approbation, esteem, praise, high opinion, &c. or dis
like, censure, contempt, &c. occasion such exquisite pleasures
and pains, as those of honour and shame, *. e. of ambition.
The particulars which we desire to have made known to, or
concealed from, others, in order to obtain praise, or avoid dis
praise, may be classed under the four following heads.
First, External advantages or disadvantages.
Secondly, Bodily perfections and imperfections.
Thirdly, Intellectual accomplishments or defects.
Fourthly, Moral ones, i. e. virtue or vice.
I will now endeavour to shew what pleasures and pains, bodily
and intellectual, are associated with the opinions which others
form of us in these four respects ; i. e. either with the several
methods by which they receive their information ; or with those
by which they signify their having received it, and their con
sequent approbation or disapprobation, respect or contempt.
PAINS OF AMBITION. 279
External Advantages and Disadvantages.
I begin with the consideration of external advantages or
disadvantages.—The principal of these are fine clothes, riches,
titles, and high birth; with their opposites, rags, poverty, obscu
rity, and low birth.
Now it is evident, that these external advantages and dis
advantages become such by being made known to others : that
the first gain men certain privileges and pleasures ; and the last
subject them to inconveniences and evils only, or chiefly, when
they are discovered to the world. It follows therefore that
every discovery of this kind to others, also every mark and
associate of such discovery, will, by association, raise up the
miniatures of the privileges and pleasures, inconveniences and
evils, respectively ; and thus afford, in each instance, a peculiar
compound pleasure or pain, which, by the use of language, has
the word honour or shame respectively annexed to it.
This is the gross account of the generation of these pleasures
and pains ; but the subordinate particulars contain many things
worthy of observation.
Thus fine clothes please both children and adults, by their
natural or artificial beauty ; they enhance the beauty of the
person ; they excite the compliments and caresses of the attend
ants in a peculiarly vivid manner; they are the common asso
ciates of riches, titles, and high birth ; they have vast encomiums
bestowed upon them ; and are sometimes the reward of mental
accomplishments and virtue. Rags, on the contrary, are often
attended with the most loathsome and offensive ideas, with
bodily infirmity, poverty, contempt, and vice. It is easy there
fore to see, that in our progress through life, a compound asso
ciated desire of fine clothes, and abhorrence of rags, will spring
up so early as to be deemed a natural one. And if a person
passes of a sudden from rags to fine clothes, or vice versd, the
pleasure or pain will be enhanced accordingly, by the juxta-position
of the opposites.
Now these pleasures and pains which thus attend a person's
being actually dressed in fine clothes, or in rags, will, by farther
associations, be transferred upon all the concomitant circum
stances, the possession of fine clothes, the hopes of them, or the
fear of rags ; and particularly upon all narrations and symbols,
whereby others are first informed of the person's dress, or
discover their prior knowledge of it; so that the person shall
have his vanity gratified, or his shame excited, by all such nar
rations, and by all the concomitant circumstances and symbols.
Riches, titles, and high birth, are attended with associates of
the same kind as fine clothes; with this difference, however,
that it requires a farther progress in life to be sufficiently affected
with the compound pleasure resulting from the associates of
these, and consequently for acquiring a taste for those pleasures
280 THE PLEASURES AND
of honour, which riches, titles, and high birth afford. Agreeably
to which it may be observed, that the first instance of pride and
vanity in children is that which arises from fine clothes.
In the progress through life, especially in the virtuous, it
often happens that opposite associations are generated, i. e. such
as break the connexion between the ideas of happiness and fine
clothes, riches, titles, high birth ; also between misery and rags,
poverty, obscurity, and low birth ; nay there are some instances
in which these last are connected with some kinds and degrees of
happiness. Now in all these cases the pride and vanity, or
shame, by which we hope or fear to have our circumstances, in
these respects, known to the world, lessen, cease entirely, or
even turn about to the opposite quarter accordingly ; so that
when a person has lost his desire of being rich, or high born, he
also loses his desire of being thought so; and when he gains an
opposite desire of becoming poor, on a religious account, for
instance, or a complacence in being low born, on account of his
present high station, &c. he desires also to have this known to
the world. And yet there may, in most cases, be perceived
some distance in time between the desire of being, and the
subsequent associated desire of being thought, viz. such a dis
tance of time as may suffice for the associations to produce their
effect in.
Riches are attended with many conveniences, whether a
person be known to possess them, or no ; and there are incon
veniences, as well as conveniences, attending the reputation of
being rich ; but titles and high birth are then only productive of
privileges and pleasures when made known to the world ; whence
it is easy to see that pride and vanity may shew themselves
much more commonly in respect of titles and high birth, than in
respect of riches, which is agreeable to the fact.
The shamefacedness of rustics, poor persons, and inferiors in
general, in the presence of their superiors, with the great con
fusion and uneasiness that often attend it, arises from the sources
of honour and shame here laid open, and particularly from the
strong contrast between their own circumstances and those of
their superiors.
Bodily Perfections and Imperfections.
The chief bodily circumstances, which are the sources of the
pleasures of honour, or of the pains of shame, are beauty,
strength, and health, on the one hand ; and their opposites,
deformity, imbecility, unfitting a person for the functions of life,
and disease, on the other. I will make some short remarks
upon each.
Beauty has an intimate connexion with one of the most
violent of our desires ; affords a great pleasure, even where this
desire is not felt explicitly ; has the highest encomiums bestowed
PAINS OF AMBITION. 281
upon it in books, especially in such as are too much in the hands
of young persons, and the highest compliments paid to it in
discourse ; and is often the occasion of success in life ; all which
holds more particularly in respect of women, than of men. No
wonder therefore, that both sexes, but especially women, should
desire both to be and be thought beautiful, and be pleased with
all the associated circumstances of these things; and that the
fear of being or being thought deformed, should be a thing to
which the imagination has the greatest reluctance. And the
reputation of beauty, with the scandal of deformity, influences so
much the more, as beauty and deformity are not attended with
their respective pleasing or displeasing associates, except when
they are made apparent to, and taken notice of by, the world.
So that here the original desire is rather to be thought beautiful
than to be so; and this last is chiefly a consequential one
arising in our minds from the close connexion of being with
thought.
In strength it is otherwise. This is the source of many con
veniences, and imbecility, its opposite, of many inconveniences,
whether they be taken notice of or no; as well as of some
which depend on their being thus taken notice of. It is reason
able therefore here to suppose, that our first and greatest desire
should be after the thing itself, and so it is in fact. However,
since several advantages arise from shewing our strength ; since
also the ostentation of happiness of any kind belonging to our
selves, or the notice which others take of it, bring in the pleasing
' idea with great vigour ; it is evident that there must be eager
desires of being thought strong, agile, &c. as well as of being so.
And, by parity of reason, men will be much ashamed of being
thought weak and feeble, as well as afraid of being so. And as
women glory chiefly in beauty, so men do in strength ; this
being chiefly a source of advantages and pleasures [to men, as
that is to women. Nay, one may even observe, that any great
degree of beauty in men, or strength in women, by being opposite
to that perfection which is peculiar to each sex, is thought rather
undesirable than desirable.
Health and sickness have many connexions with beauty and
strength, deformity and imbecility, respectively ;" and therefore
may easily be conceived to become respectively the sources of the
pleasures of honour or of the pains of shame, agreeable to the
fact. But, in diseases, so many greater pains and evils, fears,
anxieties, &c. with some pleasures, such as those of friendship,
occur likewise, that there is, in most cases, little room for shame
to exert itself: however, if the disease be the consequence either
of a virtuous, or a vicious, course of action, the honour or shame,
belonging to virtue or vice respectively, will be transferred upon it.
There is a high degree of shame, which attends the natural
evacuations, particularly those of the faeces and urine, which is
in part deduced from the offensiveness of the excrements of the
THE PLEASURES AND
body, and is nearly related to the shame attending bodily infirmi
ties and diseases. But this shame, as it respects the feces and
urine, has also a particular connexion with that which relates to
the pudenda, arising from the vicinity of the organs ; and thus
they give and receive mutually. They are also both of them
much increased by education, custom, and the precepts and
epithets of parents and governors. The original sources of the
shame relating to the pudenda are probably the privacy requisite
(which is both cause and effect), the greatness of the pleasure,
and the sense of guilt which often attends ; and there may be
perhaps something of instinct, which operates here quite inde
pendently of association.
Intellectual Accomplishments and Defects.
The intellectual accomplishments and defects which occasion
honour and shame, are sagacity, memory, invention, wit, learning;
and their opposites, folly, dullness, and ignorance. Here we
may deduce a considerable part from the many advantages arising
from the accomplishments, disadvantages from the defects, in the
same manner as has been done already in the two foregoing
articles. But a great part, perhaps the greatest, is deduced from
the high-strained encomiums, applauses, and flatteries, paid to
parts of learning, and the outrageous ridicule and contempt
thrown upon folly and ignorance, in all the discourses and
writings of men of genius and learning; these persons being
extremely partial to their own excellencies, and carrying the world
with them by the force of their parts and eloquence. It is also
to be observed, that in the education of young persons, and
especially of boys and young men, great rewards are conferred in
consequence of intellectual attainments and parts ; and great
punishments follow negligence and ignorance; which rewards
and punishments, being respectively associated with the words
expressing praise and censure, and with all their other circum
stances, transfer upon praise and censure compound vivid minia
tures, pleasant and painful.
In like manner all the kinds of honour and shame, by being
expressed in words and symbols, that are nearly related to each
other, enhance each other : thus, for instance, the caresses given
to a child when he is dressed in fine clothes prepare him to be
much more affected with the caresses and encomiums bestowed
upon him when he has been diligent in getting his lesson. And
indeed it ought to be remarked, that the words and phrases of
the parents, governors, superiors, and attendants, have so great
an influence over children, when they first come to the use of
language, as instantly to generate an implicit belief, a strong
desire, or a high degree of pleasure. They have no suspicions,
jealousies, memories, or expectations of being deceived or dis
appointed ; and therefore a set of words expressing pleasures of
PAINS OF AMBITION. 283
any kind, which they have experienced, put together in almost
any manner, will raise up in them a pleasurable state, and
opposite words a painful one. Whence it is easy to see, that
the fine language expressing praise, and the harsh one expressing
dispraise, must instantly, from the mere associations heaped upon
the separate words, put them into a state of hope and joy, fear
and sorrow, respectively. And when the foundation is thus laid,
praise and dispraise will keep their influence from the advantages
and disadvantages attending them, though the separate words
should lose their particular influences, as they manifestly do in
our progress through life.
The honour and shame arising from intellectual accomplish
ments do often, in learned men, after some time, destroy, in
great measure, their sensibility, in 'respect of every other kind of
honour and shame ; which seems chiefly to arise from their con
versing much with books and learned men, so as to have a great
part of the pleasures, which they receive from this their conver
sation, closely connected with the encomiums upon parts and
learning ; also to have all terms of honour applied to them, and
the keenest reproach, and most insolent contempt, cast upon the
contrary defects. And, as the pleasures which raillery, ridicule,
and satire, afford to the by-standers, are very considerable, so
the person who is the object of them, and who begins to be in
pain upon the first slight marks of contempt, has this pain much
enhanced by the contrast, the exquisiteness of his uneasiness and
confusion rising in proportion to the degree of mirth, and insolent
laughter, in the by-standers : whence it comes to pass, that ex
tremely few persons have courage to stand the force of ridicule ;
but rather subject themselves to considerable bodily pains, to
losses, and to the anxiety of a guilty mind, than appear foolish,
absurd, singular, or contemptible to the world, or even to persons
of whose judgment and abilities they have a low opinion.
All this is, in general, more applicable to men than to women,
just as the honour and shame belonging to beauty and deformity
is more applicable to women than men ; both which observations
are easily deducible from the different talents and situations in
life of the two sexes.
Virtue and Vice.
We come, in the last place, to consider moral accomplishments
and defects, or virtue and vice. Now it is very evident, that the
many advantages, public and private, which arise from the first,
will engage the world to bestow upon it much honour and ap
plause, in the same manner as the evil consequences of vice must
make it the object of censure and reproach. Since therefore the
child is affected with the words expressing honour and censure,
both from the separate influences of these words, and from the
application of phrases of this kind to other subjects of praise and
THE PLEASURES AND
dispraise, he must be affected by the commendations bestowed
upon him when he has done well, and by the censures past on
him when he has done ill.
These commendations and censures are also attended with great
immediate rewards and punishments, likewise with the hopes and
fears relating to another world ; and when the moral sense is
sufficiently generated, with great secret indeterminate pleasure or
pain of this kind ; and these associations add a particular force to
the honour and shame belonging respectively to virtue and vice.
At the same time it is easy to see, that some considerable progress
in life is ordinarily required before men come to be deeply and
lastingly affected by these things ; also that this kind of honour
and shame may, at last, from the superior force of the associated
pleasures and pains, absorb, as it were, all the other kinds. A
religious man becomes at last insensible, in great measure, to
every encomium and reproach, excepting such as he apprehends
will rest upon him at the last day, from Him whose judgment
cannot err.
This is the general account of the honour and shame paid to
virtue and vice respectively. I will now make a few short stric
tures upon some of the principal virtues and vices.
First, then, piety is not in general, and amongst the bulk of
mankind, had in great honour. This proceeds from several
causes ; as that in the order of our progress it is the last of the
virtues, and therefore, having few votaries, it must have few
advocates ; that in the first attempts to attain it, men often fall
into great degrees of enthusiasm and superstition, and so expose
themselves to the charges of folly, madness, and self-conceit ; and
that pretences to it are often made use of by hypocrites to cover
the worst designs. Now from these and such like causes it
happens, that men are much ashamed to be thought devout,
fearing that exquisite uneasiness, which being ridiculed and con
temned as fools, madmen, and hypocrites, occasions. At the
same time it appears, that amongst those who have made consi
derable . advances in religion, piety will be had in the greatest
honour : these see evidently how it may be distinguished from
enthusiasm, superstition, and hypocrisy ; and are very little
solicitous concerning the opinions of the profane world, who are
apt to confound them ; and therefore as far as their piety will
permit any foreign desire to arise, they have an exquisite relish
for the honour and esteem proceeding from the reputation of
piety.
Benevolence springs up more early in life than piety, and has
at first view a more immediate good influence upon society.
There are also greater numbers who arrive at some imperfect
degrees of it, than who arrive at like degrees of piety ; neither
are the degenerations and counterfeits of benevolence so common
as those of piety. On these accounts much greater and more
frequent encomiums are bestowed upon it by the bulk of mau
PAINS OF AMBITION. 285
kind, than upon piety ; and these with the many advantages
resulting from the reputation of being benevolent, make most
persons eagerly desire this reputation ; so that they perform
many actions from mere ambition, or from a mixture of this with
benevolence, which they desire the world should think to proceed
from mere benevolence.
Military glory, and the high applauses bestowed upon personal
courage, seem, in a considerable degree, deducible from this
source, from the benevolent design of protecting the innocent,
the helpless, one's friends and country, from invasions, robberies,
wild beasts, &c. The connexion of these with bodily strength,
and the characteristical perfections of men as distinguished from
women and children ; the rarity and difficulty of them ; the vast
encomiums bestowed upon them by poets, orators, and histo
rians, especially in ancient times, i.e. by those authors which are
read in schools, and lay hold of our pliant imaginations when
young ; the ridicule cast upon timorousness by boys and men,
as not being a common imperfection amongst them ; and the
connexion of the fear of death with the sense of guilt; all concur
likewise, and have carried mankind so far as to make them confer
the highest honours upon the most cruel, lawless, and abomi
nable actions, and consequently incite one another to perform
such actions from ambitious views. However, this false glare
seems to fade in theory, amongst writers ; and one may hope that
the practice of mankind will be, in some measure, agreeable to
the corrections made in their theory.
Temperance and chastity have considerable honours bestowed
upon them ; but the shame and scandal attending the opposite
vices, and which arise from the loathsome diseases, and the many
miseries, which men bring upon themselves and others by these
vices, are much more remarkable. The detail of these things
might easily be delivered from parallel observations already made.
It happens sometimes, that some degrees of these vices are
looked upon by young and ignorant persons as honourable, from
certain connexions with manliness, fashion, high life ; however,
this is still in conformity with the doctrine of association, and the
derivation of all the pleasures of honour from happiness under
some form or other ; and, when the same persons become better
instructed in the real consequences and connexions of things,
their opinions change accordingly.
Negative humility, or the not thinking better or more highly
of ourselves than we ought, in respect of external advantages,
bodily, intellectual, or moral accomplishments, and being content
with such regards as are our due, which is the first step ; and then
positive humility, or a deep sense of our own misery and imper
fections of all kinds, and an acquiescence in the treatment which
we receive from others, whatever it be ; being virtues which are
most commodious to ourselves and others, and highly amiable in
the sight of all those who have made a due proficiency in religion,
286 THE PLEASURES AND
and the moral sense, come at last to be honoured and esteemed
in an eminent manner, and consequently to incite men from mere
vanity and ambition to seek the praise of humility. And the
ridicule and shame which attend vanity, pride, and self-conceit,
concur to the same purpose; which is a remarkable instance of
the inconsistency of one part of our frame with itself, as the case
now stands, and of the tendency of vice to check and destroy
itself.
From the whole of what has been delivered upon this class of
pleasures and pains, one may draw the following corollaries.
Cor. I. All the things in which men pride themselves, and for
which they desire to be taken notice of by others, are either
means of happiness, or have some near relation to it. And
indeed it is not at all uncommon to see persons take pains to
make others believe that they are happy, by affirming it in
express terms. Now this, considered as a mere matter of fact,
occurring to attentive observation, might lead one to conclude,
that the pleasures of honour and ambition are not of an original,
instinctive, implanted nature, but derived from the other plea
sures of human life, by the association of these into various
parcels, where the several ingredients are so mixed amongst one
another, as hardly to be discernible separately. The young, the
gay, and the polite, are ambitious of being thought beautiful,
rich, high-born, witty, &c. The grave, the learned, the afflicted,
the religious, &c. seek the praise of wisdom and knowledge, or
to bo esteemed for piety and charity ; every one according to his
opinions of these things, as the sources, marks, or offsprings of
happiness. And when men boast of their poverty, low birth,
ignorance, or vice, it is always in such circumstances, with such
additions and contrasts, or under such restrictions, as that the
balance, upon the whole, may, some way or other, be the more
in their favour on that account.
Cor. II. Praise and shame are made use of by parents and
governors, as chief motives and springs of action ; and it becomes
matter of praise, to a child, to be influenced by praise, and
deterred by shame ; and matter of reproach, to be insensible in
these respects. And thus it comes to pass, that praise and shame
have a strong reflected influence upon themselves ; and that
praise begets the love of praise, and shame increases the fear of
shame. Now, though the original praise, commendation, blame,
censure, &c. of good parents and preceptors, extend only, for the
most part, to acquired accomplishments and defects, and par
ticularly to virtue and vice ; yet the secondary influence will
affect men in respect of all sorts of encomiums and censures, of
every thing that comes under the same denomination, that is
associated with, or tied up by, the same words. Though the
preceptor direct his pupil only to regard the judgment of the
wise and good, still there are so many like circumstances attend
ing the judgment of others, that it will be regarded something the
PAINS OF SELF-INTEREST. 287
more from the lessons received, in respect to the wise and good,
exclusively of others.
Cor. III. In considering the sources of honour and shame, it '
will appear, that they are by no means consistent with one
another; and, by a farther inquiry, that the maximum of the |
pleasures of this class ulimately coincides, omni ex parte, with |
moral rectitude.
SECT. III.
THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF SELF-INTEREST.
Prop. XCVL—To examine how far the Pleasures and Pains of
Self-Interest are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
Self-interest may be distinguished into three kinds, viz.
First, Gross self-interest, or the cool pursuit of the means
whereby the pleasures of sensation, imagination, and ambition,
are to be obtained, and their pains avoided.
Secondly, Refined self-interest, or a like pursuit of the means
that relate to the pleasures and pains of sympathy, theopathy,
and the moral sense.
And, Thirdly, Rational self-interest, or the pursuit of a man's
greatest possible happiness, without any partiality to this or that
kind of happiness, means of happiness, means of a means, &c.
Gross Self-interest.
The love of money may be considered as the chief species of
gross self-interest, and will help us, in an eminent manner, to
unfold the mutual influences of our pleasures and pains, with the
factitious nature of the intellectual ones, and the doctrine of
association in general, as well as the particular progress, windings,
and endless redoublings of self-love. For it is evident at first
sight, that money cannot naturally and originally be the object
of our faculties; no child can be supposed born with the love
of it. Yet we see, that some small degrees of this love rise early
in infancy ; that it generally increases during youth and man
hood ; and that at last, in some old persons, it so engrosses and
absorbs all their passions and pursuits, as that from being con
sidered as the representative, standard, common measure and
means of obtaining the commodities which occur in common life,
it shall be esteemed the adequate exponent and means of happi
ness in general, and the thing itself, the sum total of all that is
288 THE PLEASURES AND
desirable in life. Now the monstrous and gigantic size of this
passion, in such cases, supported evidently by association alone,
will render its progress and growth more conspicuous and
striking ; and consequently greatly contribute to explain the
corresponding particulars in other passions, where they are less
obvious.
Let us inquire, therefore, for what reason it is that children
first begin to love money. Now they observe, that money pro
cures for them the pleasures of sensation, with such of imagina
tion as they have acquired a relish for. They see that it is highly
valued by others ; that those who possess it are much regarded
and caressed ; that the possession of it is generally attended by
fine clothes, titles, magnificent buildings, &c. ; imitation, and the
common contagion of human life, having great power here, as
in other cases. Since therefore ideas exciting desire are thus
heaped upon money by successive associations perpetually re
curring, the desire of it in certain sums and manners, viz. such
as have often recurred with the concomitant pleasures, must at
last grow stronger than the fainter sensible and intellectual
pleasures ; so that a child shall prefer a piece of money to many
actual gratifications to be enjoyed immediately.
And as all the fore-mentioned associations, or such as are
analogous to them, continue during life, it seems probable, that
the love of money would at last devour all the particular desires,
upon which it is grounded, was it not restrained by counter-
associations ; just as it was observed above, that the pleasure of
gratifying the will would devour all the particular pleasures, to
which it is a constant associate, did not repeated disappointments
preserve us from this enormous increase of wilfulness.
Let us next examine how the love of money is checked.
First, then, It is checked by the strong desires of young per
sons, and others, after particular gratifications ; for these desires,
by overpowering their acquired aversion to part with money,
weaken it gradually, and consequently weaken the pleasure of
keeping, and the desire of obtaining, all which are closely linked
together in this view; notwithstanding that the last, viz. the
desire of obtaining, and by consequence (in an inverted order)
the pleasure of keeping, and the aversion to part with, are
strengthened by the desires of particular pleasures to be pur
chased by money, in another view. And this contrariety of our
associations is not only the means of limiting certain passions,
but is a mark set upon them by the Author of nature, to shew
that they ought to be limited, even in our progress through this
life ; and that they must ultimately be annihilated, every one in
its proper order.
Secondly, The insignificancy of riches in warding off death
and diseases, also shame and contempt in many cases, and in
obtaining the pleasures of religion, and the moral sense, and
even those of sympathy, ambition, imagination, and sensation,
PAINS OF SELF-INTEREST. 289
first lessen their value in the eyes of those who make just obser
vations upon things in their progress through life, and afterwards
fix a positive nothingness and worthlessness upon them.
Thirdly, The eager pursuit of any particular end, as fame, learn
ing, the pleasures of the imagination, &c. leaves little room in
the mind either for avarice, or any other foreign end.
Now by these and such like considerations we may account
not only for the limitation put to the love of money, but also for
certain mixtures of tempers and dispositions, which are often
found in fact, and yet seem at first sight inconsistent ones. Thus
profuseness, in respect of sensual and selfish pleasures, is often
joined with avarice. Covetous persons are often rigidly just in
paying, as well as exacting ; and sometimes generous, where
money is not immediately and apparently concerned. They have
also moderate passions in other respects ; for the most part, are
suspicious, timorous, and complaisant. And the most truly
generous, charitable, and pious persons, are highly frugal, so as
to put on the appearance of covetousness, and even sometimes,
and in some things, to border upon it.
We may see also, why the love of money must, in general,
grow stronger with age ; and especially if the particular gratifi
cations, to which the person was most inclined, become insipid
or unattainable—Why frequent reflections upon money in pos
session, and the actual viewing large sums, strengthen the asso
ciations by which covetousness is generated—Why children,
persons in private and low life, and indeed most others, are
differently affected towards the same sum of money, in different
forms, gold, silver, notes, &c.
Let us next inquire, for what reasons it is that the love of
money has the idea of selfishness attached to it in a peculiar
manner, much more so than the pursuit of the pleasures of
honour, imagination, or sympathy ; whereas all are equally gene
rated by association, from sensible and selfish pleasures, all in
their several degrees promote private happiness, and are all
pursued, in some cases, coolly and deliberately, from the prospect
of obtaining private happiness thereby. Now the reasons of this
seem to be,
First, That whatever riches one man obtains, another must
lose; so that the circulation of money by trades, professions,
offices, &c. is a kind of gaming ; and has most of the same dis
gustful ideas annexed to it, when considered with some attention,
and exclusively of private selfish feelings ; whereas the pleasures
of sympathy consist in doing good to others ; those of ambition
are scarce attainable in any great degree without this, or at least
the appearance of it ; and the pleasures of imagination are both
capable of a very extensive communication, and most perfect
when enjoyed in company.
Secondly, A regard to self frequently recurring must deno
minate a pleasure selfish ; so that if any of the most generous
u
THE PLEASURES AND
pleasures, and such as at first view have no immediate relation to
self-interest, be pursued in a cool deliberate way, not from the
influence of a present inclination, but the pre-conceived opinion
that it will afford pleasure, this is referred to self-interest. Now
money has scarce any other relation to pleasure than that of an
evident means; so that even after it has gained the power of
pleasing instantaneously, the intermediate deliberate steps and
associations must, however, frequently appear. It procures the
other pleasures for us every day, after it has become pleasant in
itself ; and therefore must always be considered as a principal
means. The other pleasures have, in general, a far greater share
of indirect associations with previous pleasures, and acquire the
power of gratifying, not so much from being manifest causes of
other gratifications, as their most common adjuncts; whereas
money is generally the most visible of all the causes. But
honour, power, learning, and many other things, are pursued, in
part, after the same manner, and for the same reasons, as riches ;
viz. from a tacit supposition, that the acquisition of every degree
of these is treasuring up a proportional degree of happiness, to
be produced and enjoyed at pleasure. And the desires of each
of these would in like manner increase perpetually during life,
did they not curb one another by many mutual inconsistencies,
or were not all damped by the frequent experience and recol
lection, that all the means of happiness cease to be so, when the
body or mind cease to be disposed in a manner proper for the
reception of happiness.
It is also worthy of observation, that riches, honours, power,
learning, and all other things, that are considered as means of
happiness, become means and ends to each other in a great
variety of ways, thus transferring upon each other all the asso
ciated pleasures which they collect from different quarters, and
approaching nearer and nearer perpetually to a perfect similarity
and sameness with each other, in the instantaneous pleasures
which they afford when pursued and obtained as ends.
It appears likewise that all aggregates of pleasure, thus col
lected by them all, must, from the mechanism and necessity of
our natures, and of the world which surrounds us, be made at
last to centre and rest upon Him who is the inexhaustible foun
tain of all power, knowledge, goodness, majesty, glory, pro
perty, &c. So that even avarice and ambition are, in their
respective ways, carrying on the benevolent designs of Him who
is All in All. And the same thing may be hoped of every other
passion and pursuit. One may hope, that they all agree and
unite in leading to ultimate happiness and perfection. How
ever, they differ greatly in their present consequences, and in
their future ones, reaching to certain intervals of time, indefinite
and unknown to us, thus becoming good or evil, both naturally
and morally, in respect of us, and our limited apprehensions,
judgments, and anticipations. And yet one may humbly hope,
PAINS OF SELF-INTEREST. 291
as was said above, that every thing must be ultimately good,
both naturally and morally.
Refined Self-interest.
The second species of self-interest is that which I call refined
self-interest. As the foregoing species is generated by an atten
tion to, and frequent reflection upon, the things which procure
us the pleasures of sensation, imagination, and ambition ; and,
therefore, cannot prevail, in any great degree, till these pleasures
have been generated, and prevailed for some time; so this
species, or refined self-interest, which is a cool, deliberate
seeking for ourselves the pleasures of sympathy, religion, and the
moral sense, pre-supposes the generation of these pleasures, and
the enjoyment of them for a sufficient time. And as some
degree of gross self-interest is the natural and necessary con
sequence of the three first classes of pleasures, so is some degree
of refined self-interest of the three last. A person who has had
a sufficient experience of the pleasures of friendship, generosity,
devotion, and self-approbation, cannot but desire to have a
return of them, when he is not under the particular influence of
any one of them, but merely on account of the pleasure which
they have afforded ; and will seek to excite these pleasures by
the usual means, to treasure up to himself such means, keep
himself always in a disposition to use them, &c. not at all from
any particular vivid love of his neighbour, or of God, or from a
sense of duty to him, but entirely from the view of private
happiness. At least, there will be a great mixture of this re
fined self-interest in all the pleasures and duties of benevolence,
piety, and the moral sense.
But then this refined self-interest is neither so common, nor so
conspicuous in real life, as the gross one, since it rises late, is
never of any great magnitude in the bulk of mankind, through
their want of the previous pleasures of sympathy, religion, and
the moral sense, in a sufficient degree, and in some it scarce
prevails at all ; whereas gross self-interest rises early in infancy,
and arrives at a considerable magnitude before adult age. The
detail of this second species of self-interest may be seen in
books of practical religion.
Rational Self-interest.
The third species of self-interest is the rational. This is the
same thing with the abstract desire of happiness, and aversion to
misery, which is supposed to attend every intelligent being
during the whole course of his existence. I have already endea
voured to shew, that this supposition is not true in the proper
sense of the words; and yet that very general desires do fre
quently recur to the mind, and may be excited by words and
symbols of general import.
u 2
292 THE PLEASURES AND
The hopes and fears relating to a future state, or to death,
which is our entrance into it, are of this kind, and may be
considered as proceeding from rational self-interest, in the
highest and most abstracted sense that the terms admit of prac
tically, since we have no definite knowledge of the nature and
kind of the happiness or misery of another world. These hopes
and fears are also the strongest of our selfish affections, and yet
at the same time the chief foundation of the pure disinterested
love of God, and of our neighbour, and the principal means of
transferring our associations, so as that we may love and hate,
pursue and fly, in the manner the best suited to our attainment
of our greatest possible happiness. For hope, being itself a
pleasure, may, by association, render indifferent, and even dis
agreeable, objects and actions pleasant; and fear may make
agreeable ones painful : hence we can either increase desires and
aversions, that are suitable to our state, or obliterate and convert
them into their contraries, if they be unsuitable, by means of
their connexion with the hopes and fears of death, and a future
state. I will therefore briefly state the rise and progress of
these hopes and fears.
All our first associations with the idea of death are of the
disgustful and alarming kind; and they are collected from all
quarters, from the sensible pains of every sort, from the imper
fection, weakness, loathsomeness, corruption, and disorder, where
disease, old age, death, animal or vegetable, prevail, in oppo
sition to the beauty, order, and lustre of life, youth, and health ;
from the shame and contempt attending the first in many in
stances; whereas the last are honourable, as being sources of
power and happiness, the reward of virtue, &c. ; and from the
sympathetic passions in general. And it is necessary, that the
heedlessness and inexperience of infancy and youth should be
guarded by such terrors, and their head-strong appetites and
passions curbed, that they may not be hurried into danger and
destruction before they are aware. It is proper also that they
should form some expectations with respect to, and set some
value upon, their future life in this world, that so they may be
better qualified to act their parts in it, and make the quicker
progress to perfection during their passage through it.
When children begin to have a sense of religion and duty
formed in them, these do still farther heighten and increase the
fear of death for the most part. For though there are rewards
on the one hand, as well as punishments on the other ; yet fear
has got the start from the natural causes of it before-mentioned :
and as pain is in general greater than pleasure, as was shewn
above, from its consisting in stronger vibrations; so fear is in
general more vivid than hope, especially in children.
Moreover, the sensual and selfish appetites are the original of
all the rest ; yet these are sinful, and inconsistent with our own
and others' happiness ; they must therefore be restrained, and at
PAINS OF SELF-INTEREST. 293
last eradicated. But parents and governors are, in this case,
more apt to have recourse to fear than to hope (in general, I
suppose with reason, because hope is too feeble to withstand the
violence of the natural appetites and passions.) And it is to be
added to all, that adults, by discovering, in general, much more
of fear and [sorrow in the apprehensions or prospect of death,
than of hope and comfort, from the continuance of the causes
just mentioned, propagate and increase the fear still farther in
one another, and in children, infecting all around them, as is
usual in other cases of the like kind. And by this means it
comes to pass, that the fear of death does in some circumstances,
particularly where the nervous system is, through a bodily dis
order, reduced to an aptness to receive uneasy and disgustful
vibrations, only or chiefly, being in a state of irritability approach
ing to pains, grow to a most enormous size, collecting and
uniting every disagreeable idea and impression under the asso
ciations belonging to death ; so that such persons live in per
petual anxiety and slavery to the fear of death. And where
there is the consciousness of past guilt, or the want of an upright
intention for the future, it rages with still greater fierceness,
till these be removed entirely, or in part, by repentance and
amendment.
It is farther to be observed, that the fear of death is much
increased by the exquisiteness of the punishments threatened in
a future state, and by the variety of the emblems, representations,
analogies, and evidences, of natural and revealed religion, whereby
all the terrors of all other things are transferred upon these
punishments ; also by that peculiar circumstance of the eternity
of them, which seems to have been a general tradition previous
to the appearance of Christianity, amongst both Jews and Pagans,
and which has been the doctrine and opinion of the Christian
world ever since, some very few persons excepted. The consi
deration of any thing that is infinite, space, time, power, know
ledge, goodness, perfection, &c. quite overpowers the faculties of
the soul with wonder and astonishment : and when the peculiar
feeling and concern belonging to self are applied here, and ex
cited by the word infinite, by meditation, reading, &c. we must,
and we ought to be alarmed to the full extent of our capacities.
And the same conclusion follows, though we should suppose the
punishments of a future state not to be absolutely and metaphy
sically infinite. For their great exquisiteness, and long duration,
which are most clearly and plainly declared in the Scriptures,
make them practically so.
This is a brief sketch of the origin and progress of the fears
attending the consideration of death, and a future state. We
now come to inquire, how the hopes are generated.
First, then, We are to observe, that repentance, amendment,
and consciousness of past virtue, and of good intentions for the
future, give a title to the hopes and rewards of a future state ;
294 THE PLEASURES AND
and that though while there are perpetual alternations of opposite
consciousnesses, i e. recollections and judgments on our own
actions, the fear may prevail in general, both from the additional
weight of the natural fear, and from the previous possession
which the religious fear has obtained ; yet by degrees the agree
able consciousness must prevail in those who are sincere (and
sometimes it is to be feared a delusive one of the same kind in
others), moderate the religious fear by little and little, and, in
great measure, overcome the natural one ; for which the way has
been prepared from the superior strength of the religious fear,
which has already obscured it in serious persons. And thus by
degrees hope will begin to take place, as the general state of the
mind, and the consideration of death, and a future state, become,
for the most part, matter of joy and comfort.
Secondly, The deliverance from the fear of death adds greatly
to this joy, in the same way as the removal of other pains is
made the source of pleasure. And the returns of the fear of
death at certain intervals, according to the state of our bodies or
minds, and the moral qualities of our actions, will, if they be not
too frequent, keep up this source of pleasure in the hope of
futurity.
Thirdly, When the slavish fear of God is thus removed by
faith and hope, all the pleasing sympathetic affections, such as
love, gratitude, confidence, begin to exert themselves with respect
to God, in a manner analogous, but in a degree far superior, to
that in which they are exerted towards men. And it is easy to
see how these, and such like causes concurring, may, in many
cases, quite overcome the natural and religious fears of death
and pain, and even make them acceptable.
Cor. From hence we may pass to the fervours of devotion ;
these being chiefly the hopes, and pleasing affections, just spoken
of, coalescing together so intimately by repeated associations, as
that the separate parts there mentioned cannot be distinguished
from each other in the compound. And as these fervours are
themselves often esteemed a sign of holiness, and consequently
a foundation of farther hope, they perpetuate and increase
themselves for a certain time, i. e. till the new convert finds
the reiterated appearance of the same ideas give less and less
emotion and pleasure, just as in the other pleasures, sensible and
intellectual ; looks upon this as a mark of spiritual desertion ;
finds numberless, unexpected, unthought of, sins and imper
fections, not yet subdued ; falls into bodily disorders, from un
seasonable severities, or spiritual intemperance, &c. ; and thus
becomes dejected, scrupulous, and fearful.
By degrees the fears taken from death, and a future state, are
confined to the mere apprehension of transgression, without any
regard had to those, and even where they, when considered and
expected, raise no fears.
However, all these things mortify pride, and the refined self
295
interest; lead, or even compel, men to resign all to God ; and so
advance them to a more pure, disinterested, and permanent love
of God, and of their neighbour, than they could have arrived at
(all other things remaining the same), had they not undergone
these anxieties; and therefore are to be esteemed the kind
corrections of an Infinitely Merciful Father.
SECT. IV.
THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF SYMPATHY.
Prop. XCVII.—To examine how far the Pleasures and Pains
of Sympathy are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
The sympathetic affections may be distinguished into four
classes, viz.
First, Those by which we rejoice at the happiness of others.
Secondly, Those by which we grieve for their misery.
Thirdly, Those by which we rejoice at their misery.
And Fourthly, Those by which we grieve for their happiness.
Of the first kind are sociality, good-will, generosity, and
gratitude. Of the second, compassion and mercy. Of the
third, moroseness, anger, revenge, jealousy, cruelty, and malice.
And of the fourth, emulation and envy.
It is easy to be conceived, that associations should produce
affections of all these four kinds, since in the intercourses of life
the pleasures and pains of one are, in various ways, intermixed
with, and dependent upon, those of others, so as to have clusters
of their miniatures excited, in all the possible ways in which the
happiness or misery of one can be combined with the happiness
or misery of another ; i. e. in the four above-mentioned. I will
now enter upon the detail of the rise and progress of each of
them.
The Affections by which we rejoice at the Happiness
of others.
The first of these is sociality, or the pleasure we take in the
mere company and conversation of others, particularly of our
friends and acquaintance, and which is attended with mutual
affability, complaisance, and candour. Now most of the plea
sures which children receive are conferred upon them by others,
their parents, attendants, or play-fellows. And the number of
the pleasures which they receive in this way, is far greater than
296 THE PLEASURES AND
that of the pains brought upon them by others. Indeed the
hurts, and bodily injuries, which they meet with, are chiefly
from themselves ; and the denials of gratifications are either very
few in number, or, if they be more frequent, give little uneasi
ness. It appears therefore, that, according to the doctrine of
association, children ought to be pleased, in general, with the
sight and company of all their acquaintance. And the same
things, with some alterations, hold in respect of adults, through
the whole course and general tenor of human life.
Besides the pleasures for which we are indebted to others,
there are many which we enjoy in common with others, and in
their company and conversation, and which therefore both en
hance, and are enhanced by, the gaiety and happiness that
appear in the countenances, gestures, words, and actions, of the
whole company. Of this kind are the pleasures of feasting,
sports and pastimes, rural scenes, polite arts, mirth, raillery, and
ridicule, public shows, public rejoicings, &c. And in general it
may be observed, that the causes of joy and grief are common to
great numbers, affecting mankind according to the several divi
sions and subdivisions thereof into nations, ranks, offices, ages,
sexes, families, &c. And by all these things it comes to pass,
that the face of an old acquaintance brings to view, as it were,
the indistinct mixed recollection, the remaining vestiges of all
the good and evil which we have felt, while his idea has been
present with us.
The same observation may be made upon places; and par
ticularly upon those where a man has spent his infancy and
youth.
To all this it is to be added, that the rules of prudence, good
manners, and religion, by restraining all rusticity, moroseness, and
insolence, and obliging us to actions of a contrary nature, even
though we have not the proper internal feelings, do by degrees
contribute to beget these in us, i. e. to beget sociality and com
plaisance ; just in the same manner, as a person in a passion
becomes much more inflamed from his own angry expressions,
gestures, and actions.
Good-will, or benevolence, when understood in a limited sense,
may be termed that pleasing affection which engages us to
promote the welfare of others to the best of our power. If it
carry us so far as to forego great pleasures, or endure great pains,
it is called generosity. But good-will and benevolence, in a
general sense, are put for all the sympathetic affections of the
first and second class, viz. those by which we either rejoice in,
and promote, the happiness of others, or grieve for, and endea
vour to remove, their misery ; as ill-will and malevolence, under
stood in a general sense also, are put for the contrary affections,
viz. those of the third and fourth class.
Benevolence, in the limited sense, is nearly connected with
sociality, and has the same sources. It has also a high degree of
PAINS OF SYMPATHY. 297
honour and esteem annexed to it, procures us many advantages,
and returns of kindness, both from the person obliged, and
others ; and is most closely connected with the hope of reward
in a future state, and with the pleasures of religion, and of self-
approbation, or the moral sense. And the same things hold
with respect to generosity in a much higher degree. It is easy
therefore to see, how such associations may be formed in us, as
to engage us to forego great pleasure, or endure great pain, for
the sake of others ; how these associations may be attended with
so great a degree of pleasure as to overrule the positive pain
endured, or the negative one from the foregoing of a pleasure ;
and yet how there may be no direct, explicit expectation of
reward, either from God or man, by natural consequence, or
express appointment, not even of the concomitant pleasure
which engages the agent to undertake the benevolent or gene
rous action. And this I take to be a proof from the doctrine of
association, that there is, and must be, such a thing as pure dis
interested benevolence; also a just account of the origin and
nature of it.
Gratitude includes benevolence, and therefore has the same
sources with some additional ones ; these last are the explicit or
implicit recollection of the benefits and pleasures received, the
hope of future ones, the approbation of the moral character of
the benefactor, and the pleasures from the honour and esteem
attending gratitude, much enhanced by the peculiar baseness and
shamefulness of ingratitude.
The Affections by which we grieve for the Misery
of others.
Compassion is the uneasiness which a man feels at the misery
of another. Now this in children seems to be grounded upon
such associations as these that follow : the very appearance and
idea of any kind of misery which they have experienced, or of
any signs of distress which they understand, raise up in their
nervous systems a state of misery from mere memory, on account
of the strength of their imaginations ; and because the connexion
between the adjuncts of pain, and the actual infliction of it, has
not yet been sufficiently broken by experience, as in adults.—
When several children are educated together, the pains, the
denials of pleasures, and the sorrows, which affect one, generally
extend to all in some degree, often in an equal one.—When
their parents, attendants, &c. are sick or afflicted, it is usual to
raise in their minds the nascent ideas of pains and miseries, by
such words and signs as are suited to their capacities ; they also
find themselves laid under many restraints on this account.
And when these and such like circumstances have raised the
desires and endeavours to remove the causes of these their own
298 THE PLEASURES AND
internal uneasy feelings, or, which is the same thing, of these
miseries, of others (in all which they are much influenced, as in
other like cases, by the great disposition to imitate before spoken
of) ; and a variety of internal feelings and desires of this kind
are so blended and associated together, as that no part can be
distinguished separately from the rest; the child may properly
be said to have compassion.
The same sources of compassion remain, though with some
alterations, during our whole progress through life; and an
attentive person may plainly discern the constituent parts of
his compassion, while they are yet the mere internal, and as
one may say, selfish feelings above-mentioned; and before they
have put on the nature of compassion by coalescence with the
rest.
Agreeably to this method of reasoning, it may be observed,
that persons whose nerves are easily irritable, and those who
have experienced great trials and afflictions, are in general
more disposed to compassion than others ; and that we are most
apt to pity in those diseases and calamities, which we either
have felt already, or apprehend ourselves in danger of feeling
hereafter.
But adults have also many other sources of compassion, besides
those already mentioned, and which differ according to their
educations and situations in life. When love, natural affection,
and friendship, have taught men to take a peculiar delight in
certain objects, in mutual endearments and familiar intercourses,
those miseries affecting the beloved objects, which either totally
destroy, or greatly interrupt, these intercourses, must give an
exquisite uneasiness ; and this uneasiness, by mixing itself with
the other parts of our compassionate affections, will greatly in
crease the sum total in respect of these beloved objects.—A
compassionate temper being great matter of praise to those who
are endued with it, and the actions which flow from it being a
duty incumbent on all, men are led to practise these actions, and
to inculcate upon themselves the motives of compassion, by
attending to distress actually present, or described in history,
real or fictitious.—The peculiar love and esteem which we bear
to morally good characters, make us more sensibly touched with
their miseries ; which is farther augmented by our indignation,
and want of compassion, for morally ill characters, suffering the
just punishment of their crimes. In like manner, the simplicity,
the ignorance, the helplessness, and the many innocent diverting
follies of young children, and of some brutes, lead men to pity
them in a peculiar manner.
Mercy has the same general nature and sources as compassion,
and seems to differ from it only in this, that the object of it has
forfeited his title to happiness, or the removal of misery, by some
demerit, particularly against ourselves. Here therefore resent
ment for an injury done to ourselves, or what is called a just
PAINS OF SYMPATHY. 299
indignation against vice in general, interferes, and cheeks the
otherwise natural course of our compassion, so as, in the unmer
ciful, entirely to put a stop to it. But, in the merciful, the
sources of compassion prevail over those of resentment and indig
nation ; whence it appears, that the compassion required in acts
of mercy, is greater than that in common acts of mere compassion ;
agreeable to which, it is observable, that mercy is held in higher
esteem than mere compassion.
The Affections by which we rejoice at the Misery of
others.
We come now to the affections of the third class, viz.
moroseness, anger, revenge, jealousy, cruelty, and malice. Now
moroseness, peevishness, severity, &c. are most apt to arise in
those persons who have some real or imaginary superiority over
others, from their rank, years, office, accomplishments, &c. which
either magnifies the failures of duty in inferiors with respect to
them, or engages them to be very attentive to these.—Bodily
( infirmities, and frequent disappointments, by making the common
. intercourses of life insipid, and enhancing small injuries ; deli
cacy and effeminacy, by increasing the sensibility both of body
and mind, with respect to pain and uneasiness ; luxury, by
begetting unnatural cravings which clash not only with the like
craving of others, but also with the common course and conve
niences of human life ; and, in short, all kinds of selfishness ;
have the same ill effect upon the temper.—The severe scrutiny
which earnest penitents make into their own lives, during their *
novitiate, and the rigid censures which they pass upon their own
actions, are often found, in proud and passionate tempers, to
raise such indignation against vice, as breaks out into an undue
severity of language and behaviour, in respect of others ; and this,
especially if they seem to themselves to have overcome all great
vices, and are not yet arrived at a just sense of the many latent
corruptions still remaining in them. And this is much increased
by all opinions which represent the Deity as implacable towards
a part of mankind, and this part as reprobate towards Him. By
all which we may see, that every thing which makes disagreeable
impressions upon our minds at the same time that our fellow-
creatures, or their ideas, are present with us ; and especially if
these be linked together in the way of cause and effect, or by any
such relation, will, in fact, beget in us moroseness and peevish
ness. This follows from the doctrine of association ; and is also
an evident fact. It is likewise a strong argument for cheerful
ness, and the pleasures of innocent moderate mirth.
Anger and cruelty are the opposites to mercy and compassion ;
the first, as a sudden start of passion, by which men wish and
endeavour harm to others, and rejoice in it when done ; which is
300 THE PLEASURES AND
revenge: the latter as a more settled habit of mind, disposing
men to take a delight in inflicting misery and punishment, and in
satiating their thirst after these, by beholding the tortures and
anguish of the sufferers.
Anger and revenge may be analysed as follows. The appear
ance, idea, approach, actual attack, &c. of any thing from which
a child has received harm, must raise in his mind, by the law of
association, a miniature trace of that harm. The same harm
often arises from different causes, and different harms from the
same cause : these harms and causes have an affinity with each
other : and thus they are variously mixed and connected to
gether, so as that a general confused idea of harm, with the
uneasy state of the nervous system, and the consequent activity
of the parts, are raised up in young children upon certain appear
ances and circumstances. By degrees the denial of gratifications,
and many intellectual aggregates, with all the signs and tokens of
these, raise up a like uneasiness, in the manner before explained.
And thus it happens, that when any harm has been received,
any gratification denied, or other mental uneasiness occasioned, a
long train of associated remainders of painful impressions enhance
the displeasure, and continue it much beyond its natural period.
This is the nascent state of the passion of anger, in which it is
nearly allied to fear, being the continuance of the same internal
feelings, quickened, on one hand, by the actual, painful, or un
easy impression, but moderated on the other by the absence of
the apprehension of future danger.
By degrees the child learns, from observation and imitation,
to use various muscular exertions, words, gestures, &c. in order
to ward off or remove the causes of uneasiness or pain, so as to
strike, talk loud, threaten, &c. and so goes on multiplying per
petually, by farther and farther associations, both the occasions
of anger, and the expressions of it ; and particularly associates a
desire of hurting another with the apprehension, or the actual
receiving, of harm from that other.
As men grow up to adult age, and distinguish living creatures
from things inanimate, rational and moral agents from irrational
ones, they learn to refer effects to their ultimate causes ; and to
consider all the intermediate ones as being themselves effects
depending on the ultimate cause. And thus their resentment
passes from the inanimate instrument to the living agent; and
more especially, if the living agent be a rational and moral one.
Eor, first, Living rational agents are alone capable of being
restrained by threatenings and punishments from committing the
injurious action. All our expressions of anger must therefore be
directed against them.—Secondly, Inanimate things are incapable
of feeling the harms which anger wishes : the desire of revenge
must therefore be entirely confined to animals. And these two
things have great influence on each other. Our threatening harm
merely from a motive of security, leads us to wish it really;
PAINS OF SYMPATHY. 301
wishing it leads us to threaten and inflict it, where it can afford
no security or advantage to us.—Thirdly, As we improve in
observation and experience, and in the faculty of analysing the
actions of animals, we perceive that brutes and children, and
even adults in certain circumstances, have little or no share in
the actions referred to them ; but are themselves under the
influence of other causes, which therefore are to be deemed the
ultimate ones. Hence, our resentment against them must be
much abated in these cases, and transferred to the ultimate living
cause, usually called the free agent, if so be that we are able to
discover him.—Lastly, When the moral ideas of just and unjust,
right and wrong, merit and demerit, have been acquired, and
applied to the actions and circumstances of human life in the
manner to be hereafter described, the internal feelings of this
class, *. e. the complacency and approbation attending the first,
the disgust, disapprobation, and even abhorrence, attending the
last, have great influence in moderating or increasing our resent
ment. The associations of the first kind are at utter variance
with those suggested by the sense of pain ; of the last, coincide
with and strengthen it. And as the rectitude of the moral sense
is the highest matter of encomium, men are ashamed not to be
thought to submit all their private feelings to its superior autho
rity, and acquiesce in its determinations. And thus, by degrees,
all anger and resentment in theory, all that even ill men will
attempt to justify, is confined to injury, to sufferings which are
not deserved, or which are inflicted by a person who has no right
to do it. And this at last makes it so in fact, to a great degree,
amongst those who are much influenced by their own moral
sense, or by that of others. Yet still, as a confirmation of the
foregoing doctrine, it is easy to observe, that many persons are
apt to be offended even with stocks and stones, with brutes, with
hurts merely accidental and undesigned, and with punishments
acknowledged to be justly inflicted; and this in various degrees,
according to the various natural and acquired dispositions of
their minds.
Cruelty and malice are considered, not as passions of the mind,
but as habits, as the deliberate wishing of misery to others,
delighting in the view and actual infliction of it, and this without
the consideration of injury received or intended. However, it
will easily appear that they are the genuine and necessary off
spring of anger indulged and gratified. They are most apt to
arise in proud, selfish, and timorous persons, those who conceive
highly of their own merits, and of the consequent injustice of all
offences against them ; and who have an exquisite feeling and
apprehension, in respect of private gratifications and uneasinesses.
The low and unhappy condition of those.around a man gives a
dignity to his own; and the infliction of punishment, or mere
suffering, strikes a terror, and so affords security and authority.
Add to these, the pleasures arising from gratifying the will
302 THE PLEASURES AND
before explained, and perhaps some from mere curiosity, and
the rousing an obdurate callous mind to a state of sensibility.
Thus we may perceive how nearly one ill passion is related to
another ; and that it is possible for men to arrive at last at some
degree of pure disinterested cruelty and malice.
The jealousy against a rival in the affections of a beloved per
son of the other sex ; also that peculiar resentment against this
beloved person, when suspected to be unfaithful, which goes by
the same name ; are easily deducible from their sources, in the
manner so often repeated. And it is owing to the extraordinary
magnitude of the passions and pleasures between the sexes, and
the singular contempt and ridicule thrown upon the person
despised and deceived, (the last of which springs from the first,)
that these two sorts of jealousy rise to such a height. This is
more peculiarly remarkable in the southern climates, where the
passions between the sexes are more violent than amongst us.
The nature and origin of jealousies and suspicions of other kinds,
with the affections attending them, may easily be understood
from what has been already advanced.
The Affections by which we grieve for the Happiness
of others.
Emulation and envy make the fourth class of the sympathetic
affections. These are founded in the desire of pleasures, honours,
riches, power, &c. and the consequent engrossing what others
desire, losing what they obtain, in a comparison of our own
acquisitions with those of others, &c. by which the happiness of
others is connected with our misery ; so that at last we become
uneasy at their happiness, even where there is no such connexion,
i. e. emulate and envy where our own interest is no ways
concerned.
Having now seen, in some measure, the nature and origin of
the principal sympathetic affections, pleasing and tormenting,
moral and immoral, let us consider the several objects upon which
these various and contrary affections are exerted.
I begin with the most intimate of all the relations of life, that
of husband and wife. Where this union is cemented by the
several pleasures of sensation and imagination before-mentioned,
also by those of the moral and religious kinds, hereafter to be
described, love, generosity, gratitude, compassion, and all the
affections of the first and second class, prevail in the highest
degree possible, to the exclusion of all those of the third and
fourth class ; so that the marriage state, in these cases, affords
the most perfect earnest and pattern, of which our imperfect
condition here admits, of the future happiness of the good in
another world. And it is remarkable, that this state is in Scrip
ture made the emblem of future happiness, and of the union of
Christ with the church.
PAINS OF SYMPATHY. .303
Where the ties of affection are weaker, and particularly where
there is a great deficiency in the moral or religious dispositions
of either or both the parties, the passions of the third class inter
mix themselves with those of the first and second ; and in many
cases, the opposite affections prevail in great degrees alternately,
and even at short and frequent intervals. And indeed each kind
often becomes more violent from succeeding its opposite.
In very immoral and wicked persons the passions of the third
class prevail almost entirely, and that especially where the
peculiar affection, called love by young persons, and which
springs from the pleasures of sensation, imagination, and ambi
tion, in the manner above explained, was originally weak.
The affection of parents towards children seems to begin from
the pain which the mother feels in bringing them into the world,
and the sympathetic fears and cares of the father in consequence
thereof, and in some degree from children's being supposed to
belong to their parents in a very peculiar sense, and being parts
of their own bodies. It is increased, especially in mothers, by
all the signs of life, sense, and distress, which the helpless tender
infant shews ; many religious and moral considerations, with the '
language in which these are expressed, adding also great force
thereto. The giving suck in the mother, with all the fears and
cares in both parents, increases it still farther, and as the child
advances in age and understanding, diverts by his little follies,
pleases by his natural beauty, draws on the encomiums of others,
surprises by his agility or wit, &c. the affections continue to rise.
When the time comes for the cultivation of the moral and
religious powers of the mind, these either increase the affection
by their proper appearance and growth, or check it by being
deficient, and by giving occasion to censures and corrections.
Yet even these last, when justly proportioned, and followed by
mental improvement, add greatly to the warmth of affection by
raising compassion. A.nd thus the remainders of former affections,
and the accessions of new ones, seem to make a sum total, which
grows perpetually greater in tender and religious parents.
The little affection commonly shewn to bastards agrees very
well with the foregoing history of parental affection.
The affection towards grand-children is, in general, the same
as that towards children, differing chiefly in this, that it is more
fond and tender, and less mixed with severity, and the necessary
corrections. This may be, perhaps, because the appearance of
the helpless infant, after so long an interval, raises up all the old
traces of parental affection with new vigour, from their not
having been exerted for some years, and by recalling many of
the most moving scenes of the foregoing life ; so that these old
traces, increased by the addition of new similar ones, make toge
ther a greater sum total than before : or, perhaps, because old
persons have more experience of pain, sorrow, and infirmity ; and
so are more disposed to compassion, in the same manner as they
30 1 THE PLEASURES AND
are more apt to weep ; and because they excuse themselves from
the uneasy task of censuring and reproving.
The affections of children towards their parents are founded
in the many pleasures which they receive from them, or in their
company. These affections are afterwards increased by their
improvement in morality and religion, and by the several common
causes of good-will, gratitude, compassion, &c. prevailing here
with peculiar force. It seems, however, that the sources of this
affection are fewer and weaker than the sources of that towards
children ; and it is observed in fact, that the affection of children
is in general weaker than that of parents. For which also an
evident final cause may be assigned. It is to be added farther,
that the many engagements and distractions which lay hold of
the opening faculties of young persons, upon their entrance into
life, have a principal share in this effect.
Friendship, with the bitter enmities that sometimes succeed
the breaches of it, and the emulation and envy that are apt to
arise in friends, from the equality and similarity of their circum
stances, may be easily understood from what has been delivered
already.
In like manner we may explain the affections between persons
of the same family, brothers, cousins, &c. of the same age, sex,
district, education, temper, profession, &c.
By all these artificial ties our good-will and compassion are
perpetually extended more and more, growing also perpetually
weaker and weaker, in proportion to their diffusion. Yet still
the common blessings and calamities, which fall upon whole
nations and communities ; the general resemblance of the cir
cumstances of all mankind to each other, in their passage through
life ; their common relation to God as their creator, governor,
and father ; their common concern in a future life, and in the
religion of Christ, &c. are capable of raising strong sympathetic
affections towards all mankind, and the several larger divisions
of it, in persons of religious dispositions, who duly attend to
these things. In like manner the opinions of savageness, bar
barity, and cruelty, which ignorant and unexperienced persons
are apt to entertain, concerning some distant nations, raise up
in their minds some degrees of general dislike, aversion, and
hatred.
PAINS OF THEOPATHY. 305
SECT. V.
THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF THEOPATHY.
Prop. XCVIII.—To examine how far the Pleasures and Pains
of Theopathy are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
Under this class I comprehend all those pleasures and pains,
which the contemplation of God, and his attributes, and of our
relation to him, raises up in the minds of different persons, or in
that of the same .person, at different times. And in order to
speak with more precision concerning this class of affections, and
to deduce them more readily from the theory of these papers, it
will be proper first to inquire into the idea of God, as it is found
in fact amongst men, particularly amongst Jews and Christians,
i. e. to inquire what associations may be observed in fact to be
heaped upon, and concur in this word, and the equivalent and
related terms and phrases.
First, then, It is probable, that since many actions and attri
butes belonging to men are, and indeed must be, in common
language, applied to God, children, in their first attempts to
decypher the word God, will suppose it to stand for a man whom
they have never seen, and of whom consequently they form a
compound fictitious idea, consisting of parts before generated by
men, whom they have seen.
Secondly, When they hear or read, that God resides in heaven,
(*. e. according to their conceptions, in the sky, amongst the
stars,) that he made all things, that he sees, hears, and knows all
things, can do all things, &c. with the many particular modes
of expression that are comprehended under these general ones,
vivid ideas, which surprise and agitate the mind, (lying upon the
confines of pain,) are raised in it ; and if they be so far advanced
in understanding, as to be affected with apparent inconsistencies
and impossibilities in their ideas, they must feel great perplexity
of imagination, When they endeavour to conceive and form definite
ideas agreeable to the language of this kind, which they hear and
read. Now this perplexity will add to the vividness of the ideas,
and all together will transfer upon the word God, and its equiva
lents, such secondary ideas, as may be referred to the heads of
magnificence, astonishment, and reverence.
Thirdly, When children hear that God cannot be seen, having
no visible shape, no parts; but that he is a spiritual infinite
being ; this adds much to their perplexity and astonishment, and
by degrees destroys the association of the fictitious visible idea
before-mentioned with the word God. However, it is probable,
that some visible ideas, such as those of the heavens, a fictitious
throne placed there, a multitude of angels, &c. still continue to
be excited by the word God, and its equivalents, when dwelt
upon in the mind.
x
306 THE PLEASURES AND
Fourthly, When the child hears, that God is the rewarder of
good actions, and the punisher of evil ones, and that the most
exquisite future happiness or misery (described by a great variety
of particulars and emblems) are prepared by him for the good
and bad respectively ; he feels strong hopes and fears rise alter
nately in his mind, according to the judgment which he passes
upon his own actions, founded partly upon the previous judg
ment of others, partly upon an imperfect moral sense begun to
be generated in him.
And laying all these things together it will appear, that,
amongst Jews and Christians, children begin probably with a
definite visible idea of God ; but that by degrees this is quite
obliterated, without any thing of a stable precise nature succeed
ing in its room ; and that, by farther degrees, a great variety of
strong secondary ideas, i. e. mental affections, (attended indeed
by visible ideas, to which proper words are affixed, as of angels,
the general judgment, &c.) recur in their turns, when they think
upon God, i. e. when this word, or any of its equivalents, or any
equivalent phrase or symbol, strike the mind strongly, so that it
dwells upon them for a sufficient time, and is affected by them in
a sufficient degree.
Amongst heathen nations, where idolatry and polytheism pre
vail, the case is different; but this difference may easily be
understood by applying the foregoing method of reasoning to the
circumstances of the heathen world.
I will now inquire more particularly into the nature and origin
of the affections exerted towards God. They may be ranked
under two general heads, love and fear ; agreeably to the general
division of the sympathetic affections into benevolence and male
volence. However, the analogy here is not a complete one, as
will be seen presently.
To the love of God may be referred gratitude, confidence, and
resignation; also enthusiasm, which may be considered as a
degeneration of it. To the fear, reverence (which is a mixture
of love and fear) ; also superstition and atheism, which are dege
nerations of the fear of God.
The Love of God.
The love of God, with its associates, gratitude, confidence, and
resignation, is generated by the contemplation of his bounty and
benignity to us, and to all his creatures, as these appear from the
view of the natural world, the declarations of the Scriptures, or
a man's own observation and experience in respect of the events
of life. It is supported, and much increased, by the consciousness
of upright intentions, and sincere endeavours, with the consequent
hope of a future reward, and by prayer vocal and mental, public
and private, inasmuch as this gives a reality and force to all the
secondary ideas before spoken of. Frequent conversation with
devout persons, and frequent reading of devout books, have great
PAINS OF THEOPATHY. 307
efficacy also, from the infectiousness of our tempers and dis
positions, and from the perpetual recurrency of the proper words,
and of their secondary ideas ; first in a faint state, afterwards in
a stronger and stronger perpetually. The contemplation of the
rest of the divine attributes, his omnipotence, omniscience, eter
nity, ubiquity, &c. have also a tendency to support and augment
the love of God, when this is so far advanced, as to be superior
to the fear; till that time these wonderful attributes enhance the
fear so much, as to check the rise and growth of the love for a
time. Even the fear itself contributes to the generation and
augmentation of the love in an eminent degree, and in a manner
greatly analogous to the production of other pleasures from pains.
And indeed it seems, that, notwithstanding the variety of ways
above-mentioned, in which the love of God is generated, and the
consequent variety of the intellectual aggregates, and secondary
ideas, there must be so great a resemblance amongst them, that
they cannot but languish by frequent recurrency, till such time
as ideas of an opposite nature, by intervening at certain seasons,
give them new life.
The love of God is, according to this theory, evidently deduced
in part from interested motives directly; viz. from the hopes of a
future reward ; and those motives to it, or sources of it, in which
direct explicit self-interest does not appear, may yet be analysed
up to it ultimately. However, after all the several sources of the
love of God have coalesced together, this affection becomes as
disinterested as any other; as the pleasure we take in any natural
or artificial beauty, in the esteem of others, or even in sensual
gratifications.
It appears also, that this pure disinterested love of God may,
by the concurrence of a sufficient number of sufficiently strong
associations, arise to such a height, as to prevail over any of the
other desires interested or disinterested ; for all, except the sen
sual ones, are of a factitious nature, as well as the love of God ;
and the sensual ones are, in our progress through life, over
powered by them all in their respective turns.
Enthusiasm may be defined a mistaken persuasion in any
person, that he is a peculiar favourite with God; and that he
receives supernatural marks thereof. The vividness of the ideas
of this class easily generates this false persuasion in persons of
strong fancies, little experience in divine things, and narrow
understandings, (and especially where the moral sense, and the
scrupulosity attending its growth and improvement, are but im
perfectly formed,) by giving a reality and certainty to all the
reveries of a man's own mind, and cementing the associations in
a preternatural manner. It may also be easily contracted by
contagion, as daily experience shews ; and indeed more easily
than most other dispositions, from the glaring language used by
enthusiasts, and from the great flattery and support, which enthu
siasm affords to pride and self-conceit.
308 THE PLEASURES AND
The Fear of God.
The fear of God arises from a view of the evils of life, from
the threatenings of the Scriptures, from the sense of guilt, from
the infinity of all God's attributes, from prayer, meditation,
reading, and conversation upon these and such like subjects, in a
manner analogous to the love of God. When confined within
certain limits, and especially when tempered with love, so as to
become awe, veneration, and reverence, it remains in a natural
state, i. e. suits our other circumstances; and, as before observed,
has a considerable share in generating the love of God. When
excessive, or not duly regarded, it degenerates either into super
stition or atheism.
Superstition may be defined a mistaken opinion concerning
the severity and punishments of God, magnifying these in respect
of ourselves or others. It may arise from a sense of guilt, from
bodily indisposition, from erroneous reasoning, &c. That which
arises from the first cause, has a tendency to remove itself by
regulating the person's behaviour, and consequently lessening his
sense of guilt. The other kinds often increase for a time, come
to their height at last, and then decline again. They do also, in
some cases, increase without limits during life. All kinds of
superstition have been productive of great absurdities in divine
worship, both amongst Pagans, and amongst Jews and Christians;
and they have all a great tendency to sour the mind, to check
natural benevolence and compassion, and to generate a bitter
persecuting spirit. All which is much augmented where super
stition and enthusiasm pass alternately into each other at intervals;
which is no uncommon ease.
Under atheism I here comprehend not only the speculative
kind, but the practical, or that neglect of God, where the person
thinks of him seldom, and with reluctance, and pays little or no
regard to him in his actions, though he does not deny him in
words. Both kinds seem in christian countries, where reasonable
satisfaction in religious matters is easy to be had by all well-
disposed minds, and gross ignorance uncommon except in ill-
disposed ones, to proceed from an explicit or implicit sense of
guilt, and a consequent fear of God, sufficient to generate an
aversion to the thoughts of him, and to the methods by which
the love might be generated, and yet too feeble to restrain from
guilt ; so that they may properly be considered as degenerations
of the fear of God. What has been delivered already in these
papers, concerning the connexion of fear, aversion, and the other
uneasy passions, with each other, and also of the tendency of all
pain to prevent the recurrency of the circumstances by which it
is introduced, may afford some light here.
It appears upon the whole, that the theopathetic affections are,
in some things, analogous to the sympathetic ones, as well as
PAINS OF THE MORAL SENSE. 309
different in others ; and that this difference arises chiefly from
the infinity and absolute perfection of the divine nature.
Affections of an intermediate kind are generated in respect of
good and evil beings of an invisible nature, and of an order
superior to us (such as angels and devils); whose origin and
growth will easily be understood from what is here delivered.
THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF THE MORAL SENSE.
Prop. XCIX.—To examine how far the Pleasures and Pains of
the Moral Sense are agreeable to the foregoing Theory.
There are certain tempers of mind, with the actions flowing
tpwards God ; of benevolence, charity, generosity, compassion,
humility, gratitude, &c. towards men ; of temperance, patience,
contentment, &c. in respect of a person's own private enjoyments
or sufferings ; which when he believes himself to be possessed of,
and reflects upon, a pleasing consciousness and self-approbation
rise up in his mind, exclusively of any direct explicit considera
tion of advantage likely to accrue to himself, from his possession
of these good qualities. In like manner the view of them in
others raises up a disinterested love and esteem for these others.
And the opposite qualities of impiety, profaneness, uncharitable-
ness, resentment, cruelty, envy, ingratitude, intemperance, lewd
ness, selfishness, &c. are attended with the condemnation both of
ourselves and others. This is, in general, the state of the case ;
but there are many particular differences, according to the parti
cular education, temper, profession, sex, &c. of each person.
Or, which is the same thing, the secondary ideas belonging to
virtue and vice, duty and sin, innocence and guilt, merit and
demerit, right and wrong, moral good and moral evil, just and
unjust, fit and unfit, obligation and prohibition, &c. in one man,
bear a great resemblance to those belonging to the same words in
another, or to the corresponding words, if they have different
languages; and yet do not exactly coincide, but differ more or
less, according to the difference in education, temper, &c.
Now both this general resemblance, and these particular dif
ferences, in our ideas, and consequent approbation or disappro-
bation, seem to admit of an analysis and explanation from the
following particulars.
First, Children are, for the most part, instructed in the dif
ference and opposition between virtue and vice, duty and sin, &c. ;
SECT. VI.
resignation, gratitude, &c.
810 THE PLEASURES AND
and have some general descriptions of the virtues and vices
inculcated upon them. They are told, that the first are good,
pleasant, beautiful, noble, fit, worthy of praise and reward, &c.';
the last odious, painful, shameful, worthy of punishment, &c. ; so
that the pleasing and displeasing associations previously annexed
to these words in their minds, are, by means of that confidence
which they place in their superiors, transferred upon the virtues
and vices respectively. And the mutual intercourses of life
have the same effect in a less degree, with respect to adults, and
those children who receive little or no instruction from their
parents or superiors. Virtue is in general approved, and set off
by all the encomiums, and honourable appellations, that any
other thing admits of, and vice loaded with censures and re
proaches of all kinds, in all good conversation and books. And
this happens oftener than the contrary, even in bad ones ; so that
as far as men are influenced in their judgments by those of others,
the balance is, upon the whole, on the side of virtue.
Secondly, There are many immediate good consequences,
which attend upon virtue, as many ill ones do upon vice, and that
during our whole progress through life. Sensuality and intem
perance subject men to diseases and pain, to shame, deformity,
filthiness, terrors, and anxieties ; whereas temperance is attended
with ease of body, freedom of spirits, the capacity of being
pleased with the objects of pleasure, the good opinion of others,
the perfection of the senses, and of the faculties, bodily and
mental, long life, plenty, &c. Anger, malice, envy, bring upon
us the returns of anger, malice, envy, from others, with injuries,
reproaches, fears, and perpetual disquietude; and, in like manner,
good-will, generosity, compassion, are rewarded with returns of
the same, with the pleasures of sociality and friendship, with
good offices, and with the highest encomiums. And when a
person becomes properly qualified, by the previous love of his
neighbour, to love God, to hope and trust in him, and to wor
ship him in any measure as he ought to do, this affords the
sincerest joy and comfort; as, on the contrary, the neglect of
God, or practical atheism, the murmuring against the course of
providence, sceptical unsettledness, and fool-hardy impiety, are
evidently attended with great anxieties, gloominess, and dis
traction, as long as there are any traces of morality or religion
left upon men's minds. Now these pleasures and pains, by often
recurring in various combinations, and by being variously trans
ferred upon each other, from the great affinity between the
several virtues, and their rewards, with each other ; also between
the several vices, and their punishments, with each other ; will at
last beget in us a general, mixed, pleasing idea and conscious
ness, when we reflect upon our own virtuous affections or
actions ; a sense of guilt, and an anxiety, when we reflect on the
contrary ; and also raise in us the love and esteem of virtue, and
the hatred of vice in others.
PAINS OF THE MORAL SENSE. 311
Thirdly, The many benefits which we receive immediately
---from, or which have some evident, though distant, connexion
with the piety, benevolence, and temperance of others ; also the
contrary mischiefs from their vices; lead us first to the love and
hatred of the persons themselves by association, as explained
under the head of sympathy, and then by farther associations to
the love and hatred of the virtues and vices, considered ab
stractedly, and without any regard to our own interest; and
that whether we view them in ourselves or others. As our love
- and esteem for virtue in others is much increased by the pleasing
consciousness, which our own practice of it affords to ourselves,
so the pleasure of this consciousness is much increased by our
love of virtue in others.
Fourthly, The great suitableness of all the virtues to each
other, and to the beauty, order, and perfection of the world,
animate and inanimate, impresses a very lovely character upon
virtue; and the contrary self-contradiction, deformity, and mis
chievous tendency of vice, render it odious, and matter of ab
horrence to all persons that reflect upon these things ; and beget
a language of this kind, which is borrowed, in great measure,
from the pleasures and pains of imagination, and applied with a
peculiar force and fitness to this subject from its great im
portance.
Fifthly, The hopes and fears which arise from the consideration
of a future state, are themselves pleasures and pains of a high
nature. When, therefore, a sufficient foundation has been laid
by a practical belief of religion, natural and revealed, by the
frequent view of, and meditation upon, death, by the loss of
departed friends, by bodily pains, by worldly disappointments
and afflictions, for forming strong associations of the pleasures of
these hopes with duty, and the pains of these fears with sin, the
reiterated impressions of those associations will at last make duty
itself a pleasure, and convert sin into a pain, giving a lustre and
deformity respectively to all their appellations ; and that without
any express recollection of the hopes and fears of another world,
just as in other cases of association.
Sixthly, All meditations upon God, who is the inexhaustible
fountain, and infinite abyss, of all perfection, both natural and
moral ; also all the kinds of prayer, i. e. all the ways of express
ing our love, hope, trust, resignation, gratitude, reverence, fear,
desire, &c. towards him ; transfer, by association, all the perfec
tion, greatness, and gloriousness of his natural attributes upon
his moral ones, i. e. upon moral rectitude. We shall by this
means learn to be merciful, holy, and perfect, because God is so;
and to love mercy, holiness, and perfection, wherever we see them.
And thus we may perceive, that all the pleasures and pains of
sensation, imagination, ambition, self-interest, sympathy, and
theopathy, as far as they are consistent with one another, with
the frame of our natures, and with the course of the world, beget
THE PLEASURES AND
in us a moral sense, and lead us to the love and approbation of
virtue, and to the fear, hatred, and abhorrence of vice. This
moral sense therefore carries its own authority with it, inasmuch
as it is the sum total of all the rest, and the ultimate result from
, them ; and employs the force and authority of the whole nature
of man against any particular part of it, that rebels against the
determinations and commands of the conscience or moral judg
ment.
It appears also, that the moral sense carries us perpetually to
the pure love of God, as our highest and ultimate perfection,
our end, centre, and only resting-place, to which yet we can
never attain.
When the moral sense is advanced to considerable perfection,
a person may be made to love and hate, merely because he
ought; i. e. the pleasures of moral beauty and rectitude, and the
pains of moral deformity and unfitness, may be transferred, and
made to coalesce, almost instantaneously.
Scrupulosity may be considered as a degeneration of the moral
sense, resembling that by which the fear of God passes into
superstition ; for it arises, like this, from a consciousness of guilt,
explicit or implicit, from bodily indisposition, and from an erro
neous method of reasoning. It has also a most intimate con
nexion with superstition (just as moral rectitude has with the
true love and fear of God :) and, like superstition, it is, in many
cases, observed to work its own cure by rectifying what is amiss ;
and so by degrees removing both the explicit and implicit con
sciousness of guilt. It seems also, that in this imperfect state
men seldom arrive at any great degree of correctness in their
actions without some previous scrupulosity, by which they may
be led to estimate the nature and consequences of affections and
actions with care, impartiality, and exactness.
The moral sense or judgment here spoken of is sometimes
considered as an instinct, sometimes as determinations of the
mind, grounded on the eternal reasons and relations of things.
Those who maintain either of these opinions may, perhaps,
explain them so as to be consistent with the foregoing analysis of
the moral sense from association. But if by instinct be meant a
disposition communicated to the brain, and in consequence of
this, to the mind, or to the mind alone, so as to be quite inde
pendent of association ; and by a moral instinct, such a disposi
tion producing in us moral judgments concerning affections and
actions ; it will be necessary, in order to support, the opinion of a
moral instinct, to produce instances, where moral judgments arise
in us, independently of prior associations determining thereto.
In like manner, if by founding the morality of actions, and
our judgment concerning this morality, on the eternal reasons
and relations of things, be meant, that the reasons drawn from
the relations of things, by which the morality or immorality of
certain actions is commonly proved, and which, with the relations,
PAINS OF THE MORAL SENSE. 313
are called eternal, from their appearing the same," or nearly the
same, to the mind at all times, would determine the mind to
form the corresponding moral judgment independently of prior
associations, this ought also to be proved by the allegation of
proper instances. To me it appears, that the instances are, as
far as we can judge of them, of an opposite nature, and favour
the deduction of all our moral judgments, approbations, and dis
approbations, from association alone. However, some associa
tions are formed so early, repeated so often, rivetted so strong,
and have so close a connexion with the common nature of
man, and the events of life which happen to all, as, in a popular
way of speaking, to claim the appellation of original and natural
dispositions ; and to appear like instincts when compared with
dispositions evidently factitious; also like axioms, and intuitive
propositions, eternally true according to the usual phrase, when
compared with moral reasonings of a compound kind. But I
have endeavoured to shew in these papers, that all reasoning, as
well as affection, is the mere result of association.
CONCLUSION :
CONTAINING SOME REMARKS ON THE MECHANISM OF THE
HUMAN MIND.
Besides the consequences flowing from the doctrine of asso
ciation, which are delivered in the corollaries to the fourteenth
proposition, there is another, which is thought by many to have
a pernicious tendency in respect of morality and religion ; and
which therefore it will be proper that I should consider parti
cularly.
The consequence I mean is that of the mechanism or neces
sity of human actions, in opposition to what is generally termed
free-will. Here then I will,
> First, State my notion of the mechanism or necessity of human
actions.
« Secondly, Give such reasons as induce me to embrace the
opinion of the mechanism of human actions.
3 Thirdly, Consider the objections and difficulties attending this
opinion.
1 And, lastly, Allege some presumptions in favour of it from its
consequences.
\. By the mechanism of human actions I mean, that each action
results from the previous circumstances of body and mind, in the
same manner, and with the same certainty, as other effects do
314 THE MECHANISM
from their mechanical causes ; so that a person cannot do indif*
ferently either of the actions A, and its contrary a, while the
previous circumstances are the same ; but is under an absolute
necesSity of doing one of them, and that only. Agreeably to this
I suppose, that by free-will is meant a power of doing either the
action A, or its contrary a; while the previous circumstances
remain the same.
If by free-will be meant a power of beginning motion, this
will come to the same thing ; since, according to the opinion of
mechanism, as here explained, man has no such power; but
every action, or bodily motion, arises from previous circum
stances, or bodily motions, already existing in the brain, *'. e.
from vibrations, which are either the immediate effect of im
pressions then made, or the remote compound effect of former
impressions, or both.
But if by free-will be meant any thing different from these two
definitions of it, it may not perhaps be inconsistent with the
mechanism of the mind here laid down. Thus, if free-will be
defined the power of doing what a person desires or wills to do,
of deliberating, suspending, choosing, &c. or of resisting the
.motives of sensuality, ambition, resentment, &c. Free-will,
under certain limitations, is not only consistent with the doctrine
of mechanism, but even flows from it; since it appears from the
foregoing theory, that voluntary and semi-voluntary powers of
calling up ideas, of exciting and restraining affections, and of
performing and suspending actions, arise from the mechanism of
our natures. This may be called free-will in the popular and
practical sense, in contradistinction to that which is opposed to
mechanism, and which may be called free-will in the philosophical
sense.
\- 1 proceed now to the arguments which favour the opinion of
mechanism.
First, then, it is evident to, and allowed by all, that the actions
of mankind proceed, in many cases, from motives, i. e. from the
influence which the pleasures and pains of sensation, imagination,
ambition, self-interest, sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense,
have over them. And these motives seem to act like all other
causes. When the motive is strong, the action is performed with
vigour ; when weak, feebly. When a contrary motive intervenes,
it checks or over-rules, in proportion to its relative strength, as
far as one can judge. So that where the motives are the same,
the actions cannot be different ; where the motives are different,
the actions cannot be the same. And it is matter of common
observation, that this is the case in fact, in the principal actions
of life, and such where the motives are of a magnitude sufficient
to be evident. It is reasonable therefore to interpret the obscure
cases by the evident ones; and to infer, that there are in all
instances motives of a proper kind and degree, which generate
each action ; though they are sometimes not seen through their
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 315
minuteness, or through the inattention or ignorance of the ob
server. Agreeably to which, those persons, who study the causes
and motives of human actions, may decypher them much more
completely, both in themselves, and those with whom they'con-
verse, than others can.
Suppose now a person able to decypher all his own actions in
this way, so as to shew that they corresponded in kind and
degree to the motives arising from the seven classes of pleasures
and pains considered in this theory ; also able to decypher the
principal actions of others in the same way : this would be as
good evidence, that motives were the mechanical causes of actions,
as natural phaenomena are for the mechanical operation of heat,
diet, or medicines. Or if he could not proceed so far, but was
able only to decypher most of his own actions, and many of the
principal ones of others, still the evidence would scarce be
diminished thereby, if the deficiency was no more than is reason
ably to be expected from our ignorance and inattention, in
respect to ourselves and others. Let the reader make the trial,
especially upon himself, since such a self-examination cannot but
be profitable, and may perhaps be pleasant; and that either
according to the seven classes of pleasures and pains here laid
down, or any other division, and judge as he thinks fit upon
mature deliberation.
It may be of use in such an inquiry into a man's self, as I here
propose, for him to consider in a short time after any material
action is past, whether, if he was once more put into the same
rigidly exact circumstances, he could possibly do otherwise than
as he did. Here the power of imagination will intervene, and be
apt to deceive the inquirer, unless he be cautious. For in this
review, other motives, besides those which did actually influence
him, will start up ; and that especially if the action be such as he
wishes to have been performed with more vigour or less, or
not to have been performed at all. But when these foreign
motives are set aside, and the imagination confined to those
which did in fact take place, it will appear impossible, as it seems
to me, that the person should have done otherwise than the very
thing which he did.
Secondly, According to the theory here laid down, all human
actions proceed from vibrations in the nerves of the muscles, and
these from others, which are either evidently of a mechanical
nature, as in the automatic motions ; or else have been shewn to
be so in the account given of the voluntary motions.
And if the doctrine of vibrations be rejected, and sensation and
muscular motion be supposed to be performed by some other
kind of motion in the nervous parts ; still it seems probable, that
the same method of reasoning might be applied to this other
kind of motion.
Lastly, To suppose, that the action A, or its contrary a, can
equally follow previous circumstances, that are exactly the same,
316 THE MECHANISM
appears to me the same thing, as affirming that one or both of
them might start up into being without any cause; which, if
admitted, appears to me to destroy the foundation of all general
abstract reasoning ; and particularly of that whereby the existence
of the First Cause is proved.
One of the principal objections to the opinion of mechanism is
that deduced from the existence of the moral sense, whose history
I have just given. But it appears from that history, that God
has so formed the world, and perhaps (with reverence be it
spoken) was obliged by his moral perfections so to form it, as
that virtue must have amiable and pleasing ideas affixed to it ;
vice, odious ones. The moral sense is therefore generated neces
sarily and mechanically. And it remains to be inquired, whether
the amiable and odious ideas above shewed to be necessarily
affixed to virtue and vice respectively, though differently, accord
ing to the different events of each person's life, do not answer all
the purposes of making us ultimately happy in the love of God,
and of our neighbour ; and whether they are not, cceteris paribus,
the same entirely, or at least in all material respects, in those
who believe mechanism, who believe free-will, and who have not
entered into the discussion of the question at all ; or if there be
a difference, whether the associations arising from the opinion of
necessity, do not tend more to accelerate us in our progress to
the love of God, our only true happiness. It appears to me, that
the difference is in general very small ; also that this difference,
whatever it be, is of such a nature as to be a presumption in
favour of the doctrine of necessity, all things being duly considered.
When a person first changes his opinion from free-will to
mechanism, or, more properly, first sees part of the mechanism
of the mind, and believes the rest from analogy, he is just as
much affected by his wonted pleasures and pains, hopes and fears,
as before, by the moral and religious ones, as by others. And
the being persuaded, that certain things have a necessary influence
to change his mind for the better or the worse, i. e. so as to
receive more sensible, sympathetic, religious pleasures, or other
wise, will force him still more strongly upon the right method,
i. e. put him upon inquiring after and pursuing this method.
If it be objected, That the moral sense supposes, that we
refer actions to ourselves and others, whereas the opinion of
mechanism annihilates all those associations, by which we refer
actions to ourselves or others; I answer, that it does this just as
the belief of the reality and infinite value of the things of another
world annihilates all the regards of this world. Both have a
tendency to these respective ends, which are indeed one and the
same at the bottom ; but both require time, in order to produce
their full effects. When religion has made any one indifferent
to this world, its pleasures and pains, then the kingdom of God,
or pure unmixed happiness, comes in respect of him ; so that he
may then well refer all to God. However, a man may be
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 317
thoroughly satisfied in a cool deliberate way, that honours,
riches, &c. can afford no solid happiness ; and yet desire them at
certain times, eagerly perhaps, from former associations. But
such a thorough general conviction applied previously to the
particular instances, is a great help in a time of temptation, and
will gradually destroy the wrong associations. In like manner,
the opinion that God is the one only cause of all things, has a
tendency to beget the most absolute resignation, and must be a
great support in grievous trials and sufferings.
We may shew by a like method of reasoning, that the affec
tions of gratitude and resentment, which are intimately con
nected with the moral sense, remain notwithstanding the doctrine
of mechanism. For it appears from the account of resentment
above delivered, that this, and by consequence gratitude, in their
nascent state, are equally exerted towards all things, animate
and inanimate, that are equally connected with pleasure and
pain. By degrees all succeeding circumstances are left out, and
our love and hatred confined to preceding ones, which we con
sider as the only causes. We then leave out inanimate objects
entirely, brutes and children in most circumstances, and adults in
some. All which is chiefly done, because acknowledgments,
rewards, threatenings, and punishments, with the other asso
ciated circumstances of gratitude and resentment, can have no
use but with respect to living intelligent beings. By farther
degrees we learn such a use of the words cause and effect as to
call nothing a cause, whose cause, or preceding circumstance, we
can see, denominating all such things mere effects, all others
causes. And thus, because the secret springs of action in men
are frequently concealed, both from the by-stander, and even
from the agent himself, or not attended to, we consider men in
certain circumstances as real causes; and intelligent beings as
the only ones that can' be real causes; and thus confine our
gratitude and resentment to them : whence it seems to follow,
that as soon as we discover created intelligent beings not to be
real causes, we should cease to make them the objects either of
gratitude or resentment. But this is, in great measure, specu
lation ; for it will appear, to every attentive person, that bene
volence, compassion, &c. are amiable, and the objects of gratitude,
envy, and malice, the contrary, from whatever causes they pro
ceed ; i. e. he will find his mind so formed already by association,
that he cannot withhold his gratitude or resentment : and it has
been my business in the foregoing analysis of the affections, to
point out the several methods by which this and such like things
are brought about. And, for the same reasons, a person must
ascribe merit and demerit, which are also intimately connected
with the moral sense, to created intelligent beings, though he
may have a full persuasion, that they are not real causes.
It does indeed appear, that this is owing to our present im
perfect state, in which we begin with the idolatry of the creature,
318 THE MECHANISM
with the worship of every associated circumstance ; and that as
we advance in perfection, the associations relating to the one
only, Ultimate, Infinite Cause, must at last overpower all the
rest ; that we shall pay no regards but to God alone ; and that
all resentment, demerit, sin, and misery, will be utterly anni
hilated and absorbed by his infinite happiness and perfections.
For our associations being in this, as in many other cases, incon
sistent with each other, our first gross and transitory ones must
yield to those which succeed and remain.
While any degree of resentment, or unpleasing affection, is
left, it may be shewn, that the same associations which keep it
up, will turn it upon the creatures, and particularly upon our
selves. And, on the other hand, when the consideration of the
Ultimate Cause seems ready to turn it from ourselves, it will
also shew that it ought to be annihilated.
4. These may be considered as general remarks, tending to
remove the difficulties arising from the consideration of the
moral sense. I will now state the principal objections to the
opinion of mechanism, in a direct, but short way, adding such
hints as appear to me to afford a solution of them.
First, then, It may be said, that a man may prove his own
.free-will by internal feeling. This is true, if by free-will be
meant the power of doing what a man wills or desires; or of
resisting the motives of sensuality, ambition, &c. i. e. free-will
in the popular and practical sense. Every person may easily
recollect instances, where he has done these several things. But
then these are entirely foreign to the present question. To
prove that a man has free-will in the sense opposite to mecha
nism, he ought to feel that he can do different things, while the
motives remain precisely the same : and here I apprehend the
internal feelings are entirely against free-will, where the motives
are of a sufficient magnitude to be evident ; where they are not,
nothing can be proved.
Secondly, It may be said, that unless a man have free-will, he ,
is not an agent. I answer, that this is true, if agency be so
defined as to include free-will. But if agency have its sense
determined, like other words, from the associated appearances,
the objection falls at once. A man may speak, handle, love,
fear, &c. entirely by mechanism.
Thirdly, It may be said, that the denial of free-will in man is
the denial of it in God also. But to this it may be answered,
that one does not know how to put the question in respect of
God, supposing free-will to mean the power of doing different
things, the previous circumstances remaining the same, without
gross anthropomorphitism. It does not at all follow, however,
because man is subject to a necessity ordained by God, that God
is subject to a prior necessity. On the contrary, according to
the doctrine of mechanism, God is the cause of causes, the one
only source of all power.
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 319
Fourthly, It may be said, that men are perpetually imposed
upon, unless they have free-will, since they think they have.
- But here again free-will is put for the power of doing what a
man wills or desires, &c. for, in the sense opposite to mechanism,
few persons have ever entered into the discussion of the point at
all ; and those who do with sufficient attention, cannot but deter
mine against free-will, as it seems to me.
Fifthly, It may be said, that the doctrine of mechanism
destroys the notion of a particular providence altering the course
of nature so as to suit it to the actions of men. I answer, that
laying down philosophical free-will, such an alteration in the
course of nature may perhaps be necessary. But if man's
actions, and the course of nature, be both fixed, they may be
suited to each other in the best possible manner ; which is all
that can be required, in order to vindicate God's attributes, as
well as all that man can desire.
Sixthly, It may be said, that all motives to good actions, and
particularly to prayer, are taken away by denying free-will. I
answer, that according to the mechanical system, prayer and
good actions are the means for obtaining happiness; and that the
belief of this is the strongest of motives to impel men to prayer
and good works.
Seventhly, It may be said, that the denial of free-will destroys
the distinction between virtue and vice. I answer, that this is
according as these words are defined. If free-will be included in
the definition of virtue, then there can be no virtue without free-
. will. But if virtue be defined obedience to the will of God, a
course of action proceeding from the love of God, or from
benevolence, &c. free-will is not at all necessary ; since these
affections and actions may be brought about mechanically.
A solution analogous to this may be given to the objection
taken from the notions of merit and demerit. Let the words be
- defined, and they will either include free-will, or, not including it,
will not require it; so that the proposition, merit implies free
will, will either be identical, or false.
Eighthly, It may be said, that the doctrine of mechanism
makes God the author of sin. I answer, that till we arrive at
self-annihilation, sin always will, and ought to, appear to arise
from ourselves ; and that, when we are arrived thither, sin and
evil of every kind vanish. I answer also, that the doctrine of
philosophical free-will does not remove our difficulties and per
plexities, in respect of the moral attributes of God, unless by
transferring them upon the natural ones ; i. e. by our supposing
that some prior necessity compelled God to bestow free-will on
his creatures. It seems equally difficult, in every way, to account
for the origin of evil, natural or moral, consistently with the
infinity of the power, knowledge, and goodness of God. If we
suppose that all tends to happiness ultimately, this removes the
difficulty so far as to produce acquiescence in the will of God,
320 THE MECHANISM
and thankfulness to him; and that just as much upon the system
of mechanism as that of free-will. Moral evil has no difficulty
in it, besides what arises from the natural evil attending it.
Ninthly, It may be said, that the exhortations of the Scrip
tures pre-suppose free-will. I answer, that they are to be con
sidered as motives impelling the will, and contributing, as far as
they are attended to, to rectify it. A parent who believes the
doctrine of mechanism may, consistently with it, or rather must
necessarily, in consequence of this belief, exhort his child.
Therefore God, who is pleased to call himself our heavenly
father, may do the same. And if we embrace the opinion of
universal restoration, then all the exhortations contained both in
the word and works of God, will produce their genuine effect,
and concur to work in us dispositions fit to receive happiness
ultimately.
1. I come npw to hint some consequences of the doctrine of
mechanism, which seem to me to be strong presumptions in its
favour.
I First, then, It entirely removes the great difficulty of recon
ciling the prescience of God with the free-will of man. For it
takes away philosophical free-will, and the practical is consistent
with God's prescience.
Secondly, It has a tendency to beget the most profound
humility and self-annihilation ; since, according to this, we are
entirely destitute of all power and perfection in ourselves, and
are what we are entirely by the grace and goodness of God.
Thirdly, It has a tendency to abate all resentment against
men. Since all that they do against us is by the appointment
of God, it is rebellion against him to be offended with them.
Fourthly, It greatly favours the doctrine of universal restoration.
Since all that is done is by the appointment of God, it cannot
but end well at last.
Fifthly, It has a tendency to make us labour more earnestly
with ourselves and others, particularly children, from the greater
certainty attending all endeavours that operate in a mechanical
way.
Lastly, There are many well-known passages of Scripture,
which cannot be reconciled to the doctrine of philosophical
free-will, without the greatest harshness of interpretation.
It may also be objected to the whole foregoing theory, as well
as to the doctrine of vibrations in particular, that it is unfavour
able to the immateriality of the soul ; and, by consequence, to its
immortality. But to this I answer, that I am reduced to the
necessity of making a postulatum at the entrance of my inquiries;
which precludes all possibility of proving the materiality of the
soul from this theory afterwards. Thus I suppose, or postulate,
in my first proposition, that sensations arise in the soul from
motions excited in the medullary substance of the brain. I do
indeed bring some arguments from physiology and pathology,
OF THE HUMAN MIND. 321
to shew this to be a reasonable postulatum, when understood in
a general sense ; for it is all one to the purpose of the foregoing
theory, whether the motions in the medullary substance be the
physical cause of the sensations, according to the system of the
schools ; or the occasional cause, according to Malbranche ; or
only an adjunct, according to Leibnitz. However, this is not
supposing matter to be endued with sensation, or any way ex
plaining what the soul is ; but only taking its existence and
connexion with the bodily organs in the most simple case, for
granted, in order to make farther inquiries. Agreeably to which
I immediately proceed to determine the species of the motion,
and by determining it, to cast light on some important and
obscure points relating to the connexion between the body and
the soul in complex cases.
It does indeed follow from this theory, that matter, if it could
be endued with the most simple kinds of sensatio*, might also
arrive at all that intelligence of which the human mind is
possessed : whence this theory must be allowed to overturn all
the arguments which are usually brought for the immateriality of
the soul from the subtlety of the internal senses, and of the
rational faculty. But I no ways presume to determine whether
matter can be endued with sensation or no. This is a point
foreign to the purpose of my inquiries. It is sufficient for me,
that there is a certain connexion, of one kind or other, between
the sensations of the soul, and the motions excited in the medul
lary substance of the brain ; which is what all physicians and
philosophers allow.
I would not therefore be any way interpreted so as to oppose
the immateriality of the soul. On the contrary, I see clearly,
and acknowledge readily, that matter and motion, however sub-
tilely divided, or reasoned upon, yield nothing more than matter
and motion still. But then neither would I affirm, that this
consideration affords a proof of the soul's immateriality. In
like manner the unity of consciousness seems to me an incon
clusive argument. For consciousness is a mental perception ;
and if perception be a monad, then every inseparable adjunct of
it must be so too, i. e. vibrations, according to this theory, which
is evidently false. Not to mention, that it is difficult to know
what is meant by the unity of consciousness.
But it is most worthy of notice, that the immateriality of the
soul has little or no connexion with its immortality; and that
we ought to depend upon Him who first breathed into man the
breath of the present life, for our resurrection to a better. All
live unto him. And if we depend upon any thing else besides
him, for any blessing, we may be said so far to renounce our
allegiance to him, and to idolize that upon which we depend.
v
OBSERVATIONS ON MAN,
8-c. $c.
PART II.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE DUTY AND EXPECTATIONS OF MANKIND.
INTRODUCTION.
Whatever be our doubts, fears, or anxieties, whether
selfish or social, whether for time or eternity, our only hope and
refuge must be in the infinite power, knowledge, and goodness
of God. And if these be really our hope and refuge, if we have
a true practical sense and conviction of God's infinite ability and
readiness to protect and bless us, an entire, peaceful, happy re
signation will be the result, notwithstanding the clouds and per
plexities wherewith we may sometimes be encompassed. He
who has brought us into this state, will conduct us through it :
he knows all our wants and distresses : his infinite nature will
bear down all opposition from our impotence, ignorance, vice, or
misery: he is our Creator, Judge, and King; our Friend, and
Father, and God.
And though the transcendent greatness and gloriousness of this
prospect may, at first view, make our faith stagger, and incline
us to disbelieve through joy ; yet, upon farther consideration, it
seems rather to confirm and establish itself on that account; for
the more it exceeds our gratitude and comprehension, the more
does it coincide with the idea of that absolutely perfect Being,
whom the several orders of imperfect beings perpetually suggest
to us, as our only resting-place, the cause of causes, and the
supreme reality.
However, on the other hand, it must be acknowledged, that
the evils which we see and feel are strong arguments of the pos
sibility of still greater evils, of any finite evils whatever, and of
their consistency with the divine attributes. All finites are
INTRODUCTION. 323
equally nothing in respect of infinite ; and if the infinite power,
knowledge, and goodness of God can permit the least evil, they
may permit any finite degree of it, how great soever, for any
thing that we know to the contrary. And this most alarming
consideration cannot but compel every thinking person to use his
utmost endeavours, first for his own preservation and deliverance;
and then, in proportion to his benevolence, for the preservation
and deliverance of others.
Nor can such a person long hesitate what method to take in
the general. The duties of piety, benevolence, and self-govern
ment, considered in the general, have had such a stamp set upon
them by all ages and nations, by all orders and conditions of men,
approve themselves so much to our frame and constitution, and
are so evidently conducive to both public and private happiness
here, that one cannot doubt of their procuring for us not only
security, but our summum bonum, our greatest possible happi
ness, during the whole course of our existence, whatever that
may be.
These are the genuine dictates of what is called natural reli
gion. But we, who live in Christian countries, may have re
course to far clearer light, and to a more definite rule : the
Christian revelation is attested by such evidences historical, pro
phetical, and moral, as will give abundant comfort and satisfaction
to all who seek them earnestly. A future life, with indefinite
or even infinite rewards and punishments, is set before us in
express terms, the conditions declared, examples related both
to encourage our hopes, and alarm our fears, and assurances of
assistance and mercy delivered in the strongest and most pathetic
terms.
Yet still there are difficulties both in the word of God, and in
his works ; and these difficulties are sometimes so magnified, as
to lead to scepticism, infidelity, or atheism. Now, the contem
plation of our own frame and constitution appears to me to have
a peculiar tendency to lessen these difficulties attending natural
and revealed religion, and to improve their evidences, as well as
concur with them in their determination of man's duty and
expectations. With this view, I drew up the foregoing observa
tions on the frame and connexion of the body and mind ; and, in
prosecution of the same design, I now propose,,
First, To proceed upon this foundation, and upon the other
phaenomena of nature, to deduce the evidences for the being and
attributes of God, and the general truths of natural religion.
Secondly, Laying down all these as a new foundation, to
deduce the evidences for revealed religion.
Thirdly, To inquire into the rule of life, and the particular
applications of it, which result from the frame of our natures,
the dictates of natural religion, and the precepts of the Scrip
tures taken together, compared with, and casting light upon,
each other. And,
y 2
INTRODUCTION.
Fourthly, To inquire into the genuine doctrines of natural
and revealed religion thus illustrated, concerning the expecta
tions of mankind, here and hereafter, in consequence of their
observance or violation of the rule of life.
I do not presume to give a complete treatise on any of these
subjects ; but only to borrow from the many excellent writings,
which have been offered to the world on them, some of the prin
cipal evidences and deductions, and to accommodate them to the
foregoing theory of the mind ; whereby it may appear, that
though the doctrines of association and mechanism do make some
alterations in the method of reasoning on religion, yet they are
far from lessening either the evidences for it, the comfort and joy
of religious persons, or the fears of irreligious ones.
CHAP. I.
OF THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD, AND OF NATURAL
RELIGION.
Prop. I.—Something must have existed from all Eternity, or,
there never was a Time when nothing existed.
For, when we place ourselves in such an imaginary point of
time, and then try to conceive how a world, finite or infinite,
should begin to exist, absolutely without cause, we find an
instantaneous and irresistible check put to the conception, and
we are compelled at once to reject the supposition : so that the
manner in which we reject it, is a proper authority for doing so.
It is superfluous, in this case, to inquire into the nature of this
check and rejection, and dissent grounded thereon; since, after
all our inquiries, we must still find an insuperable reluctance to
assent. The supposition will not remain in the mind, but is
thrown out immediately ; and I do not speak of this, as what ought
to follow from a proper theory of evidence and assent, but as a
fact, which every man feels, whatever his notions of logic be, or
whether he has any or none ; and I appeal to every man for the
truth of this fact. Now, no truth can have a greater reality to us,
nor any falsehood a greater evidence against it, than this instan
taneous, necessary assent or dissent. I conclude, therefore, that
there never was a time when nothing existed ; or, in other words,
that something must have existed from all eternity.
Prop. IT.—There cannot have been a mere Succession of finite
dependent Beings from all Eternity ; but there must exist, at
least, one infinite and independent Being.
If an infinite succession of finite dependent beings be possible,
let M, N, O, &c. represent the several links of this chain or
series ; N is therefore the mere effect of M, 0 of N, Sec. as we
descend ; and as we ascend, M is the effect of L, L of K, &c.
Each particular being, therefore, is a mere effect; and, there
fore, the supposition of such a succession finite d parte ante
would be rejected immediately according to the last proposition,
326 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
since A, the first term, would be an effect absolutely without a
cause, and the same thing holds, whatever number of terms be
added d parte ante. If, therefore, an infinite number be added,
(which I here suppose possible for argument's sake,) so that the
series may become infinite a parte ante, the same conclusion
must be valid according to the analogy of all mathematical
reasonings concerning infinites : since we do not approach to the
possibility of the series in any step of our progress, but always
remain in the same state of utter inability to admit it, we can
never arrive thither ultimately. Wherever the ultimate ratio of
quantities, supposed then to be infinitely great or small, is
different from that of the same quantities supposed to be finite,
there is a perpetual tendency to this ultimate ratio in every
increase or diminution of the quantities: it follows, therefore,
that an infinite succession of mere finite dependent beings is
impossible to us; which relative impossibility, as I observed
before, is our Ne phis ultra. Though we should fancy relative
impossibles to be possible in themselves, as it is sometimes
phrased, the utter rejection, which forces itself again and again
upon the mind, when we endeavour to conceive them so, sup
presses all nascent tendencies to assent.
The same thing may be considered thus : If there be nothing
more in the universe than a mere succession of finite dependent
beings, then there is some degree of finiteness superior to all the
rest ; but this is impossible, since no cause can be assigned for
this degree rather than any other: besides, this supreme finite
being will want a cause of its existence, since it is finite ; which
yet it cannot have, since all the rest are inferior to it.
Or thus : If an infinite succession of finite beings be possible,
let us suppose it in men : it will be necessary, however, to sup
pose one or more beings superior to man, on account of the
exquisiteness of his frame of body and mind, which is far above
his own power to execute, and capacity to comprehend : and if
this being or beings be not infinite, we must have recourse to a
second infinite succession of finite beings. But then it will be
natural to suppose, that these beings, though able to comprehend
man through their superior faculties, cannot comprehend them
selves, and so on till we come to an infinite being, who alone can
comprehend himself.
There are many other arguments and methods of reasoning, of
the same kind with those here delivered, which lead to the same
conclusion ; and they all seem to turn upon this, that as all finite
beings require a superior cause for their existence and faculties,
so they point to an infinite one, as the only real cause, himself
being uncaused. He is therefore properly denominated inde
pendent, self-existent, and necessarily existent; terms which
import nothing more, when applied to the Deity, than the denial
of a foreign cause of his existence and attributes; notwithstanding
that these words, on account of their different derivations, and
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 327
relations to other words, may seem to have a different import,
when applied to the Deity.
If it be objected, that a cause is required for an infinite being,
as well as for a finite one ; I answer, that though the want of a
cause for finite beings, with other arguments for the same
purpose, leads us necessarily to the consideration and admission
of an infinite one ; yet, when we are arrived there, we are utterly
unable to think or speak properly of him : however, one would
rather judge, that for the same reason that all finiteness requires
a cause, infinity is incompatible with it.
If it be supposed possible for a man, through logical and meta
physical perplexities, or an unhappy turn of mind, not to see the
force of these and such-like reasonings, he must, however, be at
least in equilibrio between the two opposite suppositions of the
proposition ; viz. that of an infinite succession of finite dependent
beings, and that of an infinite independent Being. In this case,
the testimony of all ages and nations, from whatever cause it
arises, and of the Scriptures, in favour of the last supposition,
ought to have some weight, since some credibility must be due
to these, in whatever light they be considered. If, therefore,
they have no weight, this may serve to shew a man that he is
not so perfectly in equilibrio as he may fancy.
This proposition will also be confirmed by the following. My
chief design under it has been to produce the abstract metaphy
sical arguments for the existence of an infinite independent being.
Some of these are more satisfactory to one person, some to
another; but in all there is something of perplexity and doubt
concerning the exact propriety of expressions, and method of
reasoning, and perhaps ever will be ; since the subject is infinite,
and we finite. I have given what appears most satisfactory to
myself; but without the least intention to censure the labours
of others upon this important subject. If we understood one
another perfectly, not only our conclusions, but our methods of
arriving at them, would probably appear to coincide. In the
mean time, mutual candour will be of great use for the preventing
the ill effects of this branch of the confusion of tongues.
Prop. III.—TheInfiniteIndependent Being is endued with infinite
Power and Knowledge.
This proposition follows from the foregoing ; it being evident,
that most or all the ways there delivered, or referred to, for
proving an infinite being, do, at the same time, prove the infinity
of his power and knowledge. To suppose a being without any
power, or any knowledge, is, in effect, to take away his existence,
after it has been allowed. And to suppose an infinite being with
only finite power, or finite knowledge, is so dissonant to the
analogy of language, and of the received method of reasoning,
that it must be rejected by the mind.
THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
But the infinity of the divine power and knowledge may also
be proved in many independent ways ; and these proofs may be
extended, in a contrary order, to infer the foregoing proposition.
Thus, first; When a man considers the several orders of
sentient and intelligent beings below him, even in the most
transient way, and asks himself whether or no mankind be the
highest order which exists within the whole compass of nature,
as we term it, he cannot but resolve this question in the negative;
he cannot but be persuaded, that there are beings of a power and
knowledge superior to his own, as well as inferior. The idea,
the internal feeling, of the actual existence of such beings forces
itself upon the mind, adheres inseparably to, and coalesces with,
the reflection upon the inferior orders of beings, which he sees.
Farther, as we can perceive no limits set to the descending scale,
so it is natural, even at first view, to imagine, that neither has
the ascending scale any limits; or, in other words, that there
actually exists one or more beings endued with infinite power
and knowledge.
Secondly, When we contemplate the innumerable instances
and evidences of boundless power, and exquisite skill, which
appear every where in the organs and faculties of animals, in the
make and properties of the vegetable and mineral kingdoms, in
the earth, water, and air of this globe, in the heavenly bodies,
in light, gravity, electricity, magnetism, the attraction of co
hesion, &c. &c. with the manifest adaptations and subserviencies
of all these things to each other, in such manner as to shew both
the most perfect knowledge of them, and of all their properties,
and the most absolute command over them ; when we consider
also that vast extent of these effects of power and knowledge,
which telescopes, microscopes, and the daily observations and
experiments of mankind, open to our view ; the real existence,
first, of power and knowledge far beyond human conception, and
then, of those that are actually infinite, forces itself upon the
mind, by the close connexion and indissoluble union between the
several ideas here mentioned.
For, thirdly, Though no finite being can comprehend more
than the finite effects of power and knowledge ; nay, though to
suppose infinite effects, /. e. an infinite universe, is thought by
some to involve a contradiction, to be the same thing as supposing
an actually infinite number ; yet it appears to me, that the other
branch of the dilemma repels us with the greatest force. To
suppose a finite universe, is to suppose a stop where the mind
cannot rest ; we shall always ask for a cause of this finiteness,
and, not finding any, reject the supposition. Now, if the universe
be supposed infinite, this proves at once the absolute infinity of
the divine power and knowledge, provided we allow them to
follow in a finite degree from the finite evidences of power and
knowledge, in that part of the universe which is presented to
our view.
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 329
As to the foregoing objection to the infinity of the universe,
we may observe, that it arises merely from the finiteness of our
comprehensions. We can have no conception of any thing in
finite, nor of the possibility that any other being, conceived by
us, can conceive this, &c. &c. But all this vanishes, when we
come to consider, that there actually is, that there necessarily
must be, an infinite being. This being may conceive his own
infinite works, and he alone can do it. His own infinite nature,
which we cannot but admit, is as much above conception as the
infinity of his works. And all apparent contradictions, in these
things, seem to flow merely from our using the words denoting
infinity, of which we can neither have any idea, nor any definition,
but by equivalent terms, like those words of which we have ideas
or definitions. In the same manner as when the conditions of
an algebraic problem are impossible, the unknown quantity
comes out indeed by the resolution of the equation under an
algebraic form, as in other cases; but then this form, when
examined, is found to include an impossibility.
As the infinity of the divine power and knowledge may be
deduced from that of the universe, so the last may be deduced
from the first, supposed to be proved by other arguments. And
it may be observed in general, upon all inquiries into this subject,
that the mind cannot bear to suppose either God or his works
finite, however unable we may be to think or speak of them
properly, when they are supposed to be infinite.
Fourthly, As it appears from the train of reasoning used in
this and the foregoing proposition, that an Infinite Being is
absolutely necessary for the existence of the visible world, as its
creator; so the consideration of this leads us to the infinity of
his power and knowledge. The things created must be merely
passive, and subject entirely to the will of Him who created them.
In like manner, all the powers and properties of created things,
with all the results of these in their mutual applications, through
all eternity, must be known to him. And this follows in what
ever manner we consider creation, of which we can certainly form
no just idea. It is evident, as just now mentioned, that an
author of this world is absolutely required; also, that this author
must have been from all eternity. It is therefore most natural
for us to conclude, that there have been infinite effects of his
almighty power from all eternity. But then this does not ex
clude creations in time, I mean of things made from nothing.
For it seems to me, that our narrow faculties cannot afford us
the least foundation for supposing the creation of things from
nothing impossible to God.
Lastly, There is a great accession of evidence for the infinity
of the divine power and knowledge, and for the creation of all
things by God, and their entire subjection to him, from the
declarations of the Scriptures to this purpose. This accession of
evidence can scarce be necessary in this age ; but, in the infancy
330 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
of the world, revelation seems to have been the chief or only
foundation of faith in any of the divine attributes. And even
now, it cannot but be matter of the greatest comfort and satis
faction to all good men, to have an independent evidence for
these important truths ; and that more especially, if their minds
have been at all perplexed with the metaphysical disputes and
subtleties, which are often started on these subjects.
Prop. IV.— God is infinitely Benevolent.
As all the natural attributes of God may be comprehended
under power and knowledge, so benevolence seems to compre
hend all the moral ones. This proposition therefore, and the
foregoing, contain the fundamentals of all that reason can discover
to us concerning the divine nature and attributes.
Now, in inquiring into the evidences for the divine benevo
lence, I observe, first, That as we judge of the divine power and
knowledge by their effects in the constitution of the visible world,
so we must judge of the divine benevolence in the same way.
Our arguments for it must be taken from the happiness, and
tendencies thereto, that are observable in the sentient beings,
which come under our notice.
Secondly, That the misery, to which we see sentient beings
exposed, does not destroy the evidences for the divine benevo
lence, taken from happiness, unless we suppose the misery equal
or superior to the happiness. A being who receives three
degrees of happiness, and but one of misery, is indebted for two
degrees of happiness to his Creator. Hence our inquiry into the
divine benevolence is reduced to an inquiry into the balance of
happiness or misery, conferred, or to be conferred, upon the
whole system of sentient beings, and upon each individual of this
great system. If there be reason to believe, that the happiness
which each individual has received, or will receive, be greater
than his misery, God will be benevolent to each being, and infi
nitely so to the whole infinite system of sentient beings ; if the
balance be infinitely in favour of each individual, God will be
infinitely benevolent to each, and infinito-infinitely to the whole
system.
It is no objection to this reasoning, that we desire pure happi
ness, and prefer it to an equal balance of happiness mixed with
misery ; or that the consideration of misery, amidst the works of
an infinitely benevolent being, gives us perplexity. For this dis
appointment of our desires, and this perplexity, can amount to
no more than finite evils, to be deducted from the sum total of
happiness ; and our obligations to the Author of our being must
always be in proportion to this remaining sum. "We may add,
that as this disappointment and perplexity are sources of misery
at present, they may, in their future consequences, be much
ampler sources of happiness ; and that this seems to be the
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 331
natural result of supposing that happiness prevails over
misery.
Thirdly, Since the qualities of benevolence and malevolence
are as opposite to one another, as happiness and misery, their
effects, they cannot co-exist in the same simple unchangeable
being. If therefore we can prove God to be benevolent, from
the balance of happiness, malevolence must be entirely excluded ;
and we must suppose the evils, which we see and feel, to be
owing to some other cause, however unable we may be to assign
this cause, or form any conceptions of it.
Fourthly, Since God is infinite in power and knowledge, i. e.
in his natural attributes, he must be infinite in the moral one
also; i.e. he must be either infinitely benevolent, or infinitely
malevolent. All arguments, therefore, which exclude infinite
malevolence, prove the infinite benevolence of God.
Lastly, As there are some difficulties and perplexities which
attend the proofs of the divine self-existence, power, and know
ledge, so it is natural to expect, that others, equal, greater, or
less, should attend the consideration of the divine benevolence.
But here again revelation comes in aid of reason, and affords
inexpressible satisfaction to all earnest and well-disposed persons,
even in this age, after natural philosophy, and the knowledge of
natural religion, have been so far advanced. In the early ages of
the world, divine revelation must have been, almost, the only
influencing evidence of the moral attributes of God.
Let us now come to the evidences for the divine benevolence,
and its infinity.
First, then, It appears probable, that there is an over-balance
of happiness to the sentient beings of this visible world, consi
dered both generally and particularly. For though disorder,
pain, and death, do very much abound every where in the world,
yet beauty, order, pleasure, life, and happiness, seem to super-
abound. This is indeed impossible to be ascertained by an exact
computation. However, it is the general opinion of mankind,
which is some kind of proof of the thing itself. For since we are
inclined to think, that happiness or misery prevails, according as
we ourselves are happy or miserable (which both experience, and
the foregoing doctrine of association, shew), the general preva
lence of the opinion of happiness is an argument of the general
prevalence of the thing itself. Add to this, that the recollection
of places, persons, &c. which we have formerly known, is in
general pleasant to us. Now recollection is only the compound
vestige of all the pleasures and pains, which have been associated
with the object under consideration. It seems therefore, that
the balance must have been in favour of pleasure. And yet it
may be, that small or moderate actual pains are in recollection
turned into pleasures. But then this will become an argument,
in another way, for the prevalence of the pleasures, and particu
larly of those of recollection, i. e. mental ones. It appears also,
332 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
that the growth and health of the body infer the general preva
lence of happiness, whilst they continue. Afterwards, the mental
happiness may overbalance the bodily misery.
Secondly, If we should lay down, that there is just as much
misery as happiness in the world, (more can scarce be supposed
by any one,) it will follow, that if the laws of benevolence were to
take place in a greater degree than they do at present, misery
would perpetually decrease, and happiness increase, till, at last,
by the unlimited growth of benevolence, the state of mankind, in
this world, would approach to a paradisiacal one. Now, this
shews that our miseries are, in a great measure, owing to our
want of benevolence, i. e. to our moral imperfections, and to that
which, according to our present language, we do and must call
ourselves. It is probable therefore, that, upon a more accurate
examination and knowledge of this subject, we should find, that
our miseries arose not only in great measure, but entirely from
this source, from the imperfection of our benevolence, whilst all
that is good comes immediately from God, who must therefore be
deemed perfectly benevolent. And since the course of the world,
and the frame of our natures, are so ordered, and so adapted to
each other, as to enforce benevolence upon us, this is a farther
argument of the kind intentions of an overruling Providence. It
follows hence, that malevolence, and consequently misery, must
ever decrease.
Thirdly, All the faculties, corporeal and mental, of all animals,
are, as far as we can judge, contrived and adapted both to the
preservation and well-being of each individual, and to the propa
gation of the species. And there is an infinite coincidence of all
the several subordinate ends with each other, so 'that no one is
sacrificed to the rest, but they are all obtained in the utmost
perfection by one and the same means. This is a strong argu
ment for all the divine perfections, power, knowledge, and good
ness. And it agrees with it, that final causes, i. e. natural good,
are the best clew for guiding the invention in all attempts to
explain the economy of animals.
Fourthly, As order and happiness prevail in general more
than their contraries, so when any disorder, bodily or mental,
does happen, one may observe, in general, that it produces some
consequences, which in the end rectify the original disorder; and
the instances where disorders propagate and increase themselves
without visible limits, are comparatively rare. Nay, it may be,
that all the apparent ones of this kind are really otherwise ; and
that they would appear otherwise, were our views sufficiently
extensive.
Fifthly, The whole analogy of nature leads us from the con
sideration of the infinite power and knowledge of God, and of
his being the Creator of all things, to regard him as our father,
protector, governor, and judge. We cannot therefore but imme
diately hope and expect from him benevolence, justice, equity.
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 333
mercy, bounty, truth, and all possible moral perfections. Men
of great speculation and refinement may desire to have this
analogical reasoning supported, and shewn to be valid ; and it is
very useful to do this as far as we are able. But it carries great
influence previously to such logical inquiries ; and even after
them, though they should not prove satisfactory, a person of a
sober and well-disposed mind, would still find himself affected by
it in no inconsiderable degree. Such a person would be com
pelled, as it were, to fly to the infinite Creator of the world in
his distresses, with earnestness, and with some degree of faith,
and would consider him as his father and protector.
Sixthly, Whenever we come to examine any particular law,
fact, circumstance, &c. in the natural or moral world, where we
have a competent information and knowledge, we find that every
thing which has been, was right in respect to the sum total of
happiness ; and that when we suppose any change to have been
made, which appears, at first sight, likely to produce more
happiness; yet, after some reflection, the consideration of some
other things, necessarily influenced by such a change, convinces
us, that the present real constitution of things is best upon the
whole. Books of natural history and natural philosophy, and
indeed daily observation, furnish abundant instances of this ; so
as to shew, that, other things remaining the same, every single
thing is the most conducive to general happiness, that it can be
according to the best of our judgments. And though our judg
ments are so short and imperfect, that this cannot pass for an
absolute conclusive evidence, yet it is very remarkable, that
these imperfect judgments of ours should lie constantly on the
same side. We have no reason to suppose, that a better ac
quaintance with things would give us cause to alter it, but far
otherwise, as appears from the universal consent of all that are
inquisitive and learned in these matters. And if there were a
few objections in the other scale (which I believe philosophers
will scarce allow), they can, at the utmost, have no more than
the same imperfect judgment to rest upon.
Seventhly, Supposing that every single thing is, other things
remaining the same, the most conducive to happiness that it can
be, then the real deficiencies that are found in respect of happi
ness, and which, at first sight, appear to arise from a proportional
deficiency in the divine benevolence, may be equally ascribed to
a deficiency in the divine power or knowledge. For this won
derful, precise, minute adaptation of every thing to each other, is
such an argument for benevolence in the most unbounded sense,
that one would rather ascribe, whatever disorders there are in
the universe, to some necessary imperfection in things them
selves, surpassing, if possible, the divine power or knowledge to
rectify ; this appearing to be the weaker side of the dilemma.
By a single thing, in the two foregoing paragraphs,; I mean
one that is so comparatively ; so that I call not only a single
334 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
part of an animal (which yet is a thing decompounded, perhaps
without limits), but a whole system of animals, when compared
with other systems, a single thing. Now, to ask whether hap
piness could not be promoted, if the whole universe was changed,
is absurd ; since it is probable, from what is already offered, that
the happiness of the universe is always infinitely great; the
infinity of the divine power and knowledge requiring infinite
benevolence, i. e. the infinite happiness of the creation, if bene
volence be at all supposed a divine attribute, as has been noted
before.
Eighthly, Since the apparent defects that are in happiness
may, according to the last paragraph but one, be equally referred
to some supposed defect in one of the principal attributes of
power, knowledge, or goodness ; it does even from hence appear
probable, that these defects are not owing to any defect in any of
them, i. e. that there are no such defects in reality, but that
all our difficulties and perplexities in these matters arise from
some misapprehensions of our own, in things that infinitely
surpass our capacities ; this supposition, whatever reluctance we
may have to it, being far the most easy and consistent of any.
Ninthly, I remarked above, that the exclusion of infinite
malevolence from the divine nature does itself prove the infinite
benevolence of God. Let us see what arguments there are for
this exclusion. Now, malevolence always appears to us under
the idea of imperfection and misery ; and therefore infinite male
volence must appear to us to be infinitely inconsistent with the
infinite power and knowledge proved, in the foregoing propo
sition, to belong to the divine nature. For the same reasons,
infinite benevolence, which always appears to us under the idea
of perfection and happiness, seems to be the immediate and
necessary consequence of the natural attributes of infinite power
and knowledge : since the wishing good to others, and the endea
vouring to procure it for them, is, in us, generally attended with
a pleasurable state of mind, we cannot but apply this observation
to the divine nature, in the same manner that we do those made
upon our own power and knowledge. And to deny us the
liberty of doing this in the first case, would be to take it away in
the last, and consequently to reduce us to the absurd and impos
sible supposition, that there is no power or knowledge in the
universe superior to our own.
Tenthly, Malevolence may also be excluded in the following
manner : if we suppose a system of beings to be placed in such a
situation, as that they may occasion either much happiness, or
much misery, to each other, it will follow, that the scale will
turn more and more perpetually in favour of the production of
happiness: for the happiness which A receives from B, will lead
him by association to love B, and to wish and endeavour B-*
happiness, in return : B will therefore have a motive, arising
from his desire of his own happiness, to continue his good offices
AND NATURAL RELIGION.
to A : whereas the misery that A receives from B, will lead him
to hate B, and to deter him from farther injuries. This must
necessarily be the case, if we only admit, that every intelligent
being is actuated by the view of private happiness, and that his
memory and trains of ideas are of the same kind with ours.
Now, the first supposition cannot be doubted; and to exclude
the last, would be jto forbid all reasoning upon other intelligent
beings : not to mention, that these two suppositions cannot,
perhaps, be separated, since the desire of happiness seems in
us to be the mere result of association, as above explained; and
association itself the general law, according to which the intel
lectual world is framed and conducted. Now this different
tendency of benevolence and malevolence, viz. of the first to
augment itself without limits, of the latter to destroy itself ulti
mately, appears to be a very strong argument for the infinite
benevolence of God. For, according to this, benevolence must
arise in all beings, other things being alike, in proportion to
their experience of good and evil, and to their knowledge of
causes and effects. One cannot doubt, therefore, but that in
finite benevolence is inseparably connected with the supreme
intelligence : all the higher orders of intellectual beings have,
probably, higher degrees of it, in the general, and accidental
differences, as we call them, being allowed for; and therefore
the highest intelligence, the infinite mind, must have it in an
infinite degree; and as every degree of benevolence becomes
a proportional source of happiness to the benevolent, so the
infinite benevolence of the Supreme Being is the same thing
with his infinite perfection and happiness. In like manner, the
contemplation of the infinite perfection and happiness of God
is an inexhaustible treasure of happiness to all his benevolent
and devout creatures ; and he is infinitely benevolent to them,
in giving them such faculties, as, by their natural workings,
make them take pleasure in this contemplation of his infinite
happiness.
Eleventhly, A reason may be given not only consistent with
the infinite benevolence of God, but even arising from it, why
some doubts and perplexities should always attend our inquiries
into it, and arguments for it, provided only that we suppose our
present frame to remain such as it is ; for it appears from the
frame of our natures, as I shall shew hereafter, and was hinted
in the last paragraph, that our ultimate happiness must consist in
the pure and perfect love of God ; and yet, that, admitting the
present frame of our natures, our love of God can never be
made pure and perfect without a previous fear of him. In like
manner, we do, and must, upon our entrance into this world,
begin with the idolatry of external things, and, as we advance in
it, proceed to the idolatry of ourselves ; which yet are insuperable
bars to a complete happiness in the love of God. Now, our
doubts concerning the divine benevolence teach us to set a much
336 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
higher value upon it, when we have found it, or begin to hope
that we have ; our fears enhance our hopes, and nascent love ;
and all together mortify our love for the world, and our interested
concern for ourselves, and particularly that part of it which seeks
a complete demonstration of the divine benevolence, and its
infinity, from a mere selfish motive ; till at last we arrive at an
entire annihilation of ourselves, and an absolute acquiescence and
complacence in the will of God, which afford the only full answer
to all our doubts, and the only radical cure for all our evils and
perplexities.
Twelfthly, It is probable, that many good reasons might be
given, why the frame of our natures should be as it is at present,
all consistent with, or even flowing from, the benevolence of the
divine nature ; and yet still that some supposition must be made,
in which the same difficulty would again recur, only in a less
degree. However, if we suppose this to be the case, the diffi
culty of reconciling evil with the goodness of God might be
diminished without limits, in the same manner as mathematical
quantities are exhausted by the terms of an infinite series. It
agrees with this, that as long as any evil remains, this difficulty,
which is one species of evil, must remain in a proportional
degree ; for it would be inconsistent to suppose any one species
to vanish before the rest. However, if God be infinitely bene
volent, they must all decrease without limits, and consequently
this difficulty, as just now remarked. In the mean time, we
must not extend this supposition of evil, and of the difficulty of
accounting for it, to the whole creation : we are no judges of
such matters; and the Scriptures may, perhaps, be thought
rather to intimate, that the mixture of good and evil is peculiar
to us, than common to the universe, in the account which they
give of the sin of our first parents, in eating of the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil.
Thirteenthly, Some light may, perhaps, be cast upon this most
difficult subject of the origin of evil, if we lay down the several
notions of infinite goodness, which offer themselves to the mind,
and compare them with one another, and with the appearances
of things. Let us suppose then, that we may call that infinite
benevolence, which makes either,
1. Each individual infinitely happy always. Or,
2. Each individual always finitely happy, without any mix
ture of misery, and infinitely so in its progress through infinite
time. Or,
3. Each individual infinitely happy, upon the balance, in its
progress through infinite time, but with a mixture of misery.
°r'
4. Each individual finitely happy in the course of its existence,
whatever that be, but with a mixture of misery as before; and
the universe infinitely happy upon the balance. Or,
5. Some individuals happy and some miserable upon the
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 337
balance, finitely or infinitely, and yet so that there shall be an
infinite overplus of happiness in the universe.
All possible notions of infinite benevolence may, I think, be
reduced to some one of these five ; and there are some persons
who think, that the infinity of the divine benevolence may be
vindicated upon the last and lowest of these suppositions. Let
us consider each particularly.
The first, viz. That each individual should be always happy
infinitely, is not only contrary to the fact at first view, but also
seems impossible, as being inconsistent with the finite nature of
the creatures. We reject it therefore as soon as proposed, and
do not expect that the divine benevolence should be proved
infinite in this sense. And yet were each individual always
finitely happy according to the next supposition, we should
always be inclined to ask why he had not a greater finite degree
of happiness conferred upon him, notwithstanding the manifest
absurdity of such a question, which must thus recur again and
again for ever.
The second supposition is that which is most natural as a mere
supposition. We think that pure benevolence can give nothing
but pure happiness, and infinite benevolence must give infinite
happiness. But it is evidently contrary to the fact, to what we
see and feel, and therefore we are forced, though with great un
willingness, to give up this notion also. It may, however, be
some comfort to us, that if we could keep this, the same temper
of mind which makes us prefer it to the next, would suggest the
question, Why not more happiness ? again and again for ever, as
just now remarked ; so that we should not be satisfied with it,
unless our tempers were also altered. This, indeed, would be
the case, because, as I observed before, all the species of evil
and imperfection must vanish together. But then this con
sideration, by shewing that the endless recurrency of the question
above-mentioned, and the concomitant dissatisfaction, are imper
fections in us, shews, at the same time, that they are no proper
foundation for an objection to the divine benevolence.
The third supposition is possible in itself; but then it can
neither be supported, nor contradicted, by the facts. If there
appear an unlimited tendency towards the prevalence of happi
ness over misery, this may be some presumption for it. But all
our judgments, and even conjectures, are confined within a short
distance from the present moment. A divine revelation might
give us an assurance of it. And it seems, that this supposition
is, upon an impartial view, equally eligible and satisfactory with
the foregoing. We estimate every quantity by the balance, by
what remains after a subtraction of its opposite ; and if this be,
an allowed authentic method, in the several kinds of happiness,
why not in happiness considered in the abstract ? But we must
not conclude, that this is the genuine notion of the divine bene
volence. There may perhaps be some presumptions for it, both
338 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
from reason and Scripture ; but I think none, in the present
infancy of knowledge, sufficient to ground an opinion upon.
However, there seem to be no possible presumptions against it;
and this may encourage us to search both the book of God's
word, and that of his works, for matter of comfort to ourselves,
and argument whereby to represent his moral character in the
most amiable light.
The fourth supposition is one to which many thinking, serious,
benevolent, and pious persons are now much inclined. All the
arguments here used for the divine benevolence, and its infinity,
seem to infer it, or, if they favour any of the other suppositions,
to favour the third, which may be said to include this fourth.
There are also many declarations in the Scriptures concerning
the goodness, bounty, and mercy of God to all his creatures,
which can scarce be interpreted in a lower sense.
As to the fifth supposition, therefore it follows, that it is
opposed by the preceding arguments, i. e. by the marks and foot
steps of God's goodness in the creation, and by the declarations
of the Scriptures to the same purpose. However, there are a
few passages of Scripture, from whence some very learned and
devout men still continue to draw this fifth supposition ; they do
also endeavour to make this supposition consistent with the
divine benevolence, by making a farther supposition, viz. that of
philosophical liberty, as it is called in these observations, or the -
power of doing different things, the previous circumstances
remaining the same. And it is highly incumbent upon us to be
humble and diffident in the judgments which we make upon
matters of such importance to us, and so much above our capa
cities. However, it does not appear to many other learned and
devout persons either that the Scripture passages alluded to are
a proper foundation for this opinion, or that of philosophical
free-will, though allowed, can afford a sufficient vindication of the
divine attributes.
These observations seem naturally to occur, upon considering
these five suppositions, and comparing them with one another,
and with the word and works of God. But there is also another
way of considering the third supposition, which, as it is a pre
sumption for it, though not an evidence, agreeably to what was
intimated above, I shall here offer to the reader.
First then, Association has an evident tendency to convert a
state of superior happiness, mixed with inferior misery, into one
of pure happiness, into a paradisiacal one, as has been shewn in
the first part of these observations, Prop. XIV. Cor. IX. Or,
in other words, association tends to convert the state of the third
supposition into that of the second.
Secondly, When any small pain is introductory to a great
pleasure, it is very common for us, without any express reflection
on the power of association, to consider this pain as coalescing
with the subsequent pleasure, into a pure pleasure, equal to the
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 339
difference between them; and, in some cases, the small pain
itself puts on the nature of a pleasure, of which we see many
instances in the daily occurrences of life, where labour, wants,
'pains, become actually pleasant to us, by a lustre borrowed from
the pleasures to be obtained by them. And this happens most
particularly, when we recollect the events of our past lives, or
view those of others. It is to be observed also, that this power
of uniting different and opposite sensations into one increases as
we advance in life, and in our intellectual capacities ; and that,
strictly speaking, no sensation can be a monad, inasmuch as the
most simple are infinitely divisible in respect of time, and extent
of impression. Those, therefore, which are esteemed the purest
pleasures, may contain some parts which afford pain ; and, con
versely, were our capacities sufficiently enlarged, any sensations,
connected to each other in the way of cause and effect, would be
esteemed one sensation, and be denominated a pure pleasure, if
pleasure prevailed upon the whole.
Thirdly, As the enlargement of our capacities enables us thus
to take off the edge of our pains, by uniting them with the sub
sequent superior pleasures, so it confers upon us more and more
the power of enjoying our future pleasures by anticipation, by
extending the limits of the present time, *. e. of that time in
which we have an interest. For the present time, in a meta
physical sense, is an indivisible moment ; but the present time,
in a practical sense, is a finite quantity of various magnitudes,
according to our capacities, and, beginning from an indivisible
moment in all, seems to grow on indefinitely in beings who are
ever progressive in their passage through an eternal life.
Suppose now a being of great benevolence, and enlarged intel
lectual capacities, to look down upon mankind passing through a
mixture of pleasures and pains, in which, however, there is a
balance of pleasure, to a greater balance of pleasure perpetually,
and, at last, to a state of pure and exalted pleasure, made so by
association : it is evident that his benevolence to man will be
the source of pure pleasure to him from his power of uniting the
opposite sensations, and of great present pleasure from his power
of anticipation. And the more we suppose the benevolence and
capacities of this being enlarged, the greater and more pure will
his sympathetic pleasure be, which arises from the contemplation
of man. It follows, therefore, that, in the eye of an infinite
mind, creatures conducted, as we think, according to the third
of the foregoing suppositions, are conducted according to the
second, and these according to the first ; or, in other words, that
the first, second, and third, of the foregoing suppositions, are all
one and the same in the eye of God. For all time, whether past,
present, or future, is present time in the eye of God, and all
ideas coalesce into one to him ; and this one is infinite happiness,
without any mixture of misery, viz. by the infinite prepollence of
happiness above misery, so as to annihilate it ; and this merely by
a to THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
considering time as it ought to be considered in strictness, i. e. as
a relative thing, belonging to beings of finite capacities, and
varying with them, but which is infinitely absorbed in the pure
eternity of God. Now the appearance of things to the eye of an
infinite being must be called their real appearance in all pro
priety. And though it be impossible for us to arrive at this
true way of conceiving things perfectly, or directly, yet we shall
approach nearer and nearer to it, as our intellectual capacities,
benevolence, devotion, and the purity of our happiness, depend
ing thereon, advance : and we seem able, at present, to express
the real appearance, in the same way as mathematicians do ulti
mate ratios, to which quantities ever tend, and never arrive, and
in a language which bears a sufficient analogy to other expres
sions that are admitted. So that now (if we allow the third
supposition) we may, in some sort, venture to maintain that
which at first sight seemed not only contrary to obvious expe
rience, but even impossible, viz. that all individuals are actually
and always infinitely happy. And thus all difficulties relating
to the divine attributes will be taken away ; God will be infi
nitely powerful, knowing, and good, in the most absolute sense,
if we consider things as they appear to him. And surely, in all
vindications of the divine attributes, this ought to be the light in
which we are to consider things. We ought to suppose our
selves in the centre of the system, and to try, as far as we are
able, to reduce all apparent retrogradations to real progressions.
It is also the greatest satisfaction to the mind thus to approxi
mate to its first conceptions concerning the divine goodness, and
to answer that endless question, Why not less misery, and more
happiness ? in a language which is plainly analogous to all other
authentic language, though it cannot yet be felt by us on account
of our present imperfection, and of the mixture of our good with
evil. Farther, it is remarkable, that neither the fourth nor fifth
suppositions can pass into the third, and that the fifth will always
have a mixture of misery in it, as long as the principium indivi-
duationis is kept up. And if this be taken away, the suppo
sitions themselves are destroyed, and we entirely lost.
I have been the longer in considering the divine benevolence,
on account of its importance both to our duty and happiness.
There seems to be abundant foundation for faith, hope, resigna
tion, gratitude, love. We cannot doubt but the Judge and
Father of all the world will conduct himself according to justice,
mercy, and goodness. However, I desire to repeat once more,
that we do not seem to have sufficient evidence to determine
absolutely for any of the three last suppositions. We cannot
indeed but wish for the third, both from self-interest and bene
volence; and its coincidence with the first and second, in the
manner just now explained, appears to be some presumption in
favour of it.
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 341
Prop. V.—There is but one Being infinite in Power, Knowledge,
and Goodness; i.e. but one God.
For, if we suppose more than one, it is plain, since the attri
butes of infinite power, knowledge, and goodness include all
possible perfection, that they must be entirely alike to each
other, without the least possible variation. They will, therefore,
entirely coalesce in our idea, i. e. be one to us. Since they fill
all time and space, and are all independent, omnipotent, omni
scient, and infinitely benevolent, their ideas cannot be separated,
but will have a numerical, as well as a generical, identity. When
we suppose other beings generically the same, and yet nume
rically different, we do, at the same time, suppose that they
exist in different portions of time or space; which circumstances
cannot have place in respect of the supposed plurality of infinite
beings. We conclude, therefore, that there is but one infinite
Being, or God.
The unity of the Godhead is also proved by revelation, con
sidered as supported by evidences which have no dependence on
natural religion. And as this proof of the unity is of great
importance even now, so it was of far greater in ancient times,
when the world was overrun with polytheism. And it is highly
probable to me, that as the first notions of the divine power,
knowledge, and goodness, which mankind had, were derived from
revelation, so much more were their notions of the unity of the
Godhead.
Prop. VI.—God is a Spiritual or Immaterial Being.
Since God is the cause of all things, as appears from the
foregoing propositions, he must be the cause of all the motions in
the material world. If, therefore, God be not an immaterial
being, then matter may be the cause of all the motions in the
material world. But matter is a mere passive thing, of whose
very essence it is, to be endued with a vis inertue ; for this vis
inertitB presents itself immediately in all our observations and
experiments upon it, and is inseparable from.it even in idea.
When we consider any of the active powers of matter, as they are
called, such as gravitation, magnetism, electricity, or the attrac
tions and repulsions, which take place in the cohesions and
separations of the small particles of natural bodies, and endeavour
to resolve these into some higher and simpler principles, the vis
inerlice is always the common basis upon which we endeavour to
erect our solutions. For the active party, which is supposed to
generate the gravitation, magnetism, &c. in the passive one,
must have a motion, and a vis inertue, whereby it endeavours to
persist in that motion, else it could have no power; and, by
parity of reason, the passive party must have a vis inertice also,
else it could neither make resistance to the active party, nor
342 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
impress motion on foreign bodies. Let us proceed, therefore, as
far as we please, in a series of successive solutions, we shall
always find a vis inertia inherent in matter, and a motion derived
to it from some foreign cause. If this cause be supposed matter
always, we shall be carried on to an infinite series of solutions, in
each of which the same precise difficulty will recur, without our
at all approaching to the removal of it. Whence, according to
the mathematical doctrine of ultimate ratios, not even an infinite
series, were that possible in this case, could remove it. We
must, therefore, stop somewhere, and suppose the requisite
motion to be imparted to the subtle matter, by something, which
is not matter ; i. e. since God is the ultimate author of all motion,
we must suppose him to be immaterial.
The same thing may be inferred thus : if there be nothing
but matter in the world, then the motions and modifications of
matter must be the cause of intelligence. But even finite intel
ligences, such as that of man, for instance, shew so much skill
and design in their constitution, as also to shew, that their
causes, i. e. the appropriated motions and modifications of matter,
must be appointed and conducted by a prior and superior intel
ligence. The infinite intelligence of God therefore, proved in
the third proposition, since it results from the motions and
modifications of matter, requires another infinite intelligence to
direct these motions, which is absurd. God is therefore proved
to be immaterial from his infinite intelligence.
It is true, indeed, that our senses convey nothing to us but
impressions from matter; and, therefore, that we can have no
express original ideas of any things, besides material ones ; whence
we are led to conclude, that there is nothing but matter in the
universe. However, this is evidently a prejudice drawn from
our situation, and an argument taken merely from our ignorance,
and the narrowness of our faculties. Since therefore, on the
other hand, mere matter appears quite unable to account for the
simplest and most ordinary phamomena, we must either suppose
an immaterial substance, or else suppose that matter has some
powers and properties different and superior to those which
appear. But this last supposition is 'the same in effect as the
first, though, on account of the imperfection of language, it seems
to be different.
At the same time it ought to be observed, that if a person
acknowledges the infinite power, knowledge, and goodness of
God, the proofs of which are prior to, and quite independent on,
that of his immateriality, this person acknowledges all that is of
practical importance. But then, on the other hand, it is also
to be observed, that the opinion of the materiality of the divine
nature has a tendency to lessen our reverence for it, and, conse
quently, to invalidate the proofs of the divine power, knowledge,
and goodness.
" How far the Scriptures deliver the immateriality of God in a
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 343
strict philosophical sense, may perhaps be doubted, as their style
is in general popular. However, there is a strong presumption,
that they teach this doctrine, since the popular sense and natural
interpretation of many sublime passages concerning the divine
nature infer its immateriality. There is therefore some evidence
for this attribute, to be taken from revelation, considered as
standing upon its own distinct proofs.
Cor. Since God is immaterial, matter must be one of the
works of his infinite power. In the mean time, this does not
seem to me to exclude the possibility of its having existed from
all eternity. But then, neither have we, on the other hand, any
reason to conclude, that the whole material system, or any part
of it, could not have been created in time. It is, perhaps, most
probable, i. e. suitable to the divine attributes, that infinite
material worlds have existed from all eternity. But it becomes
us, in all these things, to distrust our own reasonings and con
jectures to the utmost.
Prop. VII.— God is an Eternal and Omnipresent Being.
God's eternity, a parte ante, appears from the second propo
sition, in which his independency is proved ; and the eternity,
a parte post, is inseparably connected with that d parte ante.
Both are also included in the idea of infinite power, or of infinite
knowledge; and, indeed, when we say, that God is eternal
a parte ante, and a parte post, we do, we can, mean no more,
than to say, that his power and knowledge extend to all times.
For we must not conceive or affirm, that he exists in succession,
as finite beings do ; through whose imaginations, or intellects,
trains of ideas pass. All time, as was said before, is equally
present to him, though in a manner of which we cannot form the
least conception.
In like manner, by God's omnipresence, or ubiquity, we must
be understood to mean, that his power and knowledge extend to
all places. For as time, and its exponent, the succession of
ideas, is a thing that relates merely to finite beings ; so space and
place relate, in their original sense, to material ones only ; nor
can we perceive any relation that they bear to immaterial ones,
unless as far as we feign a resemblance between material and
immaterial beings, which is surely an inconsistent fiction. We
cannot, therefore, discover any relation which space or place
bear to the divine existence. It is a sufficient acknowledgment
both of God's eternity and omnipresence, that we believe his
power and knowledge to extend to all times and places, though
we be entirely at a loss how to conceive or express the manner
of this infinite extent of these attributes. And there is a remark
able agreement between innumerable passages of the Scriptures,
and this practical notion of God's eternity and omnipresence.
344 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
Prop. VIII.— God is an Immutable Being.
This follows from the infinity of the divine power, knowledge,
and goodness, i. e. from his infinite perfection. For if the divine
nature admitted of any variation, it would also admit of different
kinds and degrees of perfection, and therefore could not always
be infinitely perfect. This is the most abstracted and philoso
phical way of considering the divine immutability. In a popular
and practical sense, it excludes all that which we call incon
sistent, arbitrary, and capricious, in finite beings ; and becomes a
sure foundation for hope, trust, and resignation. We may con
sider ourselves as being at all times, and in all places, equally
under the direction and protection of the same infinite power,
knowledge, and goodness, which are so conspicuous in the frame
of the visible world.
Prop. IX.— God is a Free Being.
The authors who have treated upon the divine nature and
attributes, usually ascribe liberty or freedom to God, and sup
pose it to be of a nature analogous to that free-will which they
ascribe to man. But it appears to me, that neither the philo
sophical nor popular liberty, as they are defined below in the
fourteenth and fifteenth propositions, can be at all applied to
God. Thus, we can neither apply to God the power of doing
different things, the previous circumstances remaining the same,
nor a voluntary generated power of introducing ideas, or. per
forming motions; nor any thing analogous to either of these
powers, without the grossest anthropomorphitism.
But liberty is also used in another sense, viz. as the negation
of, and the freedom from, a superior, compelling force; and in
this sense it may and must be applied to the Deity; his inde
pendency and infinity including it. And in this sense it is
contrary to the notion of those heathens, who supposed even
God himself subject to fate.
Upon the whole, if by liberty, freedom, or free-will, be meant
any thing great or glorious, God certainly has it ; if otherwise,
certainly not. Thus, if it mean freedom from a superior com
pelling cause of any kind, as in the last paragraph, God certainly
has it, he being the cause of causes, the universal, the one only
cause. If it mean, that God could have made an universe less
perfect than that which actually exists, he certainly has it not,
because this would make God less perfect also. And here it
seems to be a thing established amongst writers on this matter,
to maintain, that God is subject to a moral necessity, and to the
perfection of his own nature ; which expressions, however, are
to be considered as nothing more than particular ways of assert
ing the infinity of the divine power, knowledge, and goodness.
If it be said, that God might have made a different universe,
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 345
equally perfect with that which now exists, and that his freedom
consists in this, the answer seems to be, that we are entirely lost
here, in the infinities of infinities, &c. ad infinitum, which always
have existed, and always will exist, with respect to kind, degree,
and every possible mode of existence. One cannot, in the least,
presume either to deny or affirm this kind of freedom of God,
since the absolute perfection of God seems to imply both entire
uniformity, and infinite variety, in his works. We can here
only submit, and refer all to God's infinite knowledge and
perfection.
Prop. X.—Holiness, Justice, Veracity, Mercy, and all other
moral Perfections, ought to be ascribed to God in an infinite
Degree.
I have in the last four propositions treated of such attributes
of the divine nature, as have a more immediate connexion with
the natural ones of independency, infinite power, and infinite
knowledge. I come now to those that are deducible from, and
explanatory of, the moral one, viz. of the divine benevolence.
The chief of these seem to be holiness, justice, veracity, and
mercy. These are ascribed to all earthly superiors, to whom we
pay respect and love, and therefore must belong, in the popular
and practical sense, to Him, who is the highest object of reverence
and affection. Let us see how each is to be defined, and what
relation they bear to benevolence.
First, then, Holiness may be defined by moral purity and
rectitude. And these, when applied to the Deity, can only
denote the rectitude of his actions towards his creatures. If
therefore he be benevolent to all his creatures, he cannot but
have moral purity and rectitude.
The same thing may be considered thus : All moral turpitude
in us proceeds from our selfish fears or desires, made more
irregular and impetuous through our ignorance, and other natural
imperfections. But none of these causes can take place with
respect to the Deity ; he must therefore be free from all moral
turpitude.
Justice is that which gives to every one according to his deserts,
at least as much as his good deserts require, and not more than
is suitable to his evil ones. But this is evidently included in the
divine benevolence, even according to the fifth of the suppositions,
mentioned Prop. IV. by those who defend that supposition, and,
according to the third and fourth, by the common consent of all,
and the plain reason of the thing. No man can deserve more
from his Creator than a balance of happiness proportional to his
merit, which is the fourth supposition; and consequently the
divine benevolence, according to the third supposition, in which
the balance of happiness is infinite, includes strict justice, and
infinitely more. And all this will hold equally, whether we
346 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
define desert in the popular, practical way, by the three meri
torious principles of action, benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense alone ; or by these with the additional supposition of
philosophical liberty, if we embrace either the third or fourth
suppositions. Philosophical liberty is indeed necessary for the
vindication of the divine benevolence and justice, according to
the fifth supposition, in the opinion of most of those who hold
this supposition. But then they esteem it to be also sufficient
for this purpose, and consequently maintain the divine justice,
into which we. are now inquiring.
It may also be reckoned a part of justice not to let offenders
go unpunished, or escape with too slight a degree of punishment ;
the order and happiness of the world, i. e. benevolence, requiring,
that frail men should be deterred from vice by the dreadful
examples of others, and mischievous persons disarmed. However,
this does not at all hinder, but that the same persons, who are
thus punished and disarmed, may afterwards receive a balance of
happiness, finite or infinite. And thus punitive justice may be
reconciled to bounty and benevolence, according to the third or
fourth suppositions.
Veracity in men is, the observance of truth, and fidelity in all
their declarations and promises to others; and the obligation to
it arises from its great usefulness in all the intercourses of man
kind with each other, and the extreme mischiefs which fiction
and fraud occasion in the world. And it cannot be doubted, but
that the divine benevolence, according to any of the suppositions
above made, includes what is analogous to this moral quality in
men.
In like manner, it cannot be doubted but that the divine
benevolence includes mercy, or all that tenderness to offenders
which the order and happiness of the world will permit. Or, if
the fifth supposition made concerning the divine benevolence be
found to exclude it, this will be a strong argument for rejecting
that supposition.
I have here shewn in what manner we may vindicate these
attributes of the divine nature, from the whole of things, i. e.
the course of events, both as they now appear in the present
state, and as we expect they will appear in a future one. But
God has also given us sufficient general evidences of these his
relative moral attributes, from the present state alone; at the
same time that, if we extend our views no farther, some diffi
culties and perplexities will arise in respect of certain particulars.
I will mention some both of the evidences and difficulties in
regard to each of these four attributes of holiness, justice, vera
city, and mercy.
It might be expected, that God, if he thought fit to institute
a religion by revelation, should institute one in which holiness
and moral purity should be eminently enjoined, and moral turpi
tude prohibited in the most awful manner. And it is a remark
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 347
able coincidence of things, and evidence of the divine purity, that
the Jewish and Christian religions should both have this internal
proof, and the most cogent external ones in their favour. Whilst,
on the contrary, the impure pagan religions had all the external
marks of fiction and forgery.
The voice of conscience, or the moral sense, within a man,
however implanted or generated, enjoining moral rectitude, and
forbidding moral turpitude, and accordingly acquitting or con
demning, rewarding or punishing, bears witness, in like manner,
to the moral rectitude of that universal cause from whom it must
proceed ultimately.
At the same time there are difficulties in revealed religion,
and deviations in the moral sense, much contrary to what we
seem to expect from our first notions of the divine rectitude.
Since God is just, we may expect that virtue will be the source
of happiness, vice that of misery, even in this world. And so we
find it in general ; at the same time that there are many parti
cular exceptions of both kinds.
The veracity of God seems to engage him to take care, that all
those intimations which may be reckoned calls and cautions of
nature, should give us right information; also, that all persons
who have the apparent credentials of being sent from him, i. e.
those of performing miracles, should be in truth so sent. And
all things concur, in general, to verify both these positions.
There are, however, several particular exceptions, as is well
known.
Mercy requires, that such persons as repent and amend, should
have opportunities of fresh trial, and of retrieving, afforded them.
And this is remarkably so in the general. Most men are tried
again and again before their healths, fortunes, credit, &c. become
irrecoverable. And yet there are some instances of extraordinary
severity upon the very first offence.
Now, it may be observed of all these instances, that the general
tenor is sufficient to establish the attributes here asserted; it
being reasonable to expect, from our ignorance of the present
state, and much more from that of the future one, that great
difficulties and exceptions must occur to us. And as these un
searchable judgments of God serve to humble us, and make us
sensible of our ignorance, they even concur with the general
tenor.
Prop. XI.— God is to be considered by us, not only as our Creator,
but also as our Governor, Judge, and Father.
That God is our Creator, is evident from the three first pro
positions ; in which his independency and infinite power are
established, from the necessity which we finite and dependent
beings have of an infinite and independent Creator : and this
appellation belongs to him alone.
348 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
The three following appellations are first applied to earthly
superiors; and therefore belong to God only in an analogical
sense. It is, however, a sense of infinite importance to be
acknowledged and regarded by us : let us, therefore, see in what
manner analogies drawn from language, and from the phaenomena
of nature, lead us to call God our governor, judge, and father..
As God is our Creator, he has, according to the analogy of
language, a right to dispose of us, to govern and judge us, and
is also our father in a much higher sense than our natural
parents, who are only occasional causes, as it were, of our existence.
In like manner, his infinite power and knowledge entitle him to
be our governor, and his infinite benevolence to be our father ;
the intimations also which he gives of his will, both in his word
and works, and the rewards and punishments which he bestows
in the way of natural consequences, as we term it, all shew, that
he is our governor and judge. And as the moral attributes
asserted in the last proposition may be deduced from these
appellations of governor, judge, and father, established on in
dependent principles, so they, when proved by their own peculiar
evidences, infer these appellations ; all which may be summed up
in this general position, that the events of life, and the use of
language, beget such trains of ideas and associations in us, as that
we cannot but ascribe all morally good qualities, and all venerable
and amiable appellations, to the Deity ; at the same time that we
perceive the meaning of our expressions not to be strictly the
same, as when they are applied to men ; but an analogical mean
ing, however a higher, more pure, and more perfect one. The
justness of this application is farther confirmed by the common
consent of all ages and nations, and by the whole tenor of the
Scriptures.
If it be said, that since this method of speaking is not strictly
literal and true, but merely popular and anthropomorphitical, it
ought to be rejected ; I answer, that even the attributes of
independency, omnipotence, omniscience, and infinite benevolence,
though the most pure, exalted, and philosophical appellations, to
which we can attain, fall infinitely short of the truth, of repre
senting the Deity as he is, but are mere popular and anthropo
morphitical expressions. And the same might still be said for ever
of higher and more pure expressions, could we arrive at them :
they would ever be infinitely deficient, and unworthy of God.
But then it appears from the preceding propositions, and other
writings of a like nature, that, if we will consider the phaenomena
of the world, and argue from them sufficiently, we must needs
see and acknowledge, that there is an Infinite Being, and that
power, knowledge, and goodness, are his character. We cannot
get rid of this internal feeling and conviction, but by refusing to
consider the subject, and to pursue the train of reasoning, which
our own faculties, or the preceding inquiries of others, will lead
us to. God is not to be esteemed an unreal being, or destitute
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 349
of all character, because he is infinite and incomprehensible, or
because we have not adequate phrases whereby to denote his
existence and attributes. On the contrary, his infinite nature
seems strongly to argue, that existence, power, knowledge, and
goodness, do really and properly belong to him alone ; and that
what we call so here on earth, in our first and literal senses, are
mere shadows and figures of the true realities. And it would be
in vain to bid us reject this language, since it must recur again and
again from the frame of our natures, if we pursue the subject.
In like manner, the relative moral attributes of holiness, justice,
veracity, mercy, &c. and the relative moral appellations of
governor, judge, and father, &c. are inseparably connected with
the use of language, and the course and constitution of the visible
world. We see that things have happened, and must believe, that
they will hereafter happen, (i. e. in the general, and allowing for
particular exceptions, as above remarked,) after such a manner as
these attributes and appellations intimate to us : they are, con
sequently, a convenient and highly useful method of ranging and
explaining past events, and predicting future ones, and therefore
may be used for this purpose ; nay, they must be so used, since
the events of life thus ranged, explained, and predicted by them,
do necessarily suggest them to us, and impress upon us this their
use, admitting only the real existence of God, and his infinite
power, knowledge, and goodness ; which, as was just now shewn,
cannot but be admitted, if men will think sufficiently on the
subject. However, since the use of these relative moral attri
butes and appellations is popular, and attended with particular
exceptions ; whereas that of the attributes of infinite power,
knowledge, and goodness, is more philosophical and extensive, it
will be proper to bear this in mind ; and where there appears to
be any opposition between the popular and philosophical lan
guage, to interpret that in subordination to this.
Cor. The doctrine of providence, general and particular, may
be considered as a consequence from the foregoing attributes and
appellations of the divine nature. By general providence, I mean
the adjusting all events to the greatest good of the whole; by
particular, the adjusting all to the greatest good of each indivi
dual ; and, consequently, by both together, the adjusting the
greatest good of the whole, and of each individual, to each other;
so that both shall fall exactly upon the same point. However
difficult this may seem, I take it to be the genuine consequence
of the foregoing propositions. Infinite power, knowledge, and
goodness, must make our most kind and merciful Father both
able and willing to effect this: it does therefore actually take
place, though we cannot see it. However, that there are many
marks both of general and particular providence, as thus explained,
is sufficiently evident, and acknowledged by all: both these appear
also to be asserted in the Scriptures.
The following observation affords a strong evidence for a
350 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
particular providence. When a person surveys the events of his
past life, he may find many, which have happened much contrary
to natural expectations, and his then desires, which yet appear
extremely beneficial and desirable at the now present time, as
also to have proceeded from natural causes then unknown to him.
Now, we may conclude from hence, that God conceals the ten
dencies and results of the course of nature at the then present
time, lest we should trust in that, and forsake him; but discovers
them afterwards with their harmonies and uses, that we may see
his goodness, knowledge, and power, in them, and so trust him in
future perplexities. It is analogous to this, that the Scripture
prophecies are inexplicable before the event, and often sufficiently
clear afterwards.
Prop. XII.—The Manner of Reasoning here used, in respect of
the Course and Constitution of Nature, has a tendency to beget
in us Love and Reverence towards God, and obedience to his
Will: or, in other Words, there is a Religion of Nature
properly so called.
Natural Religion appears to be used in different senses by
different writers : however, they are all, I think, reducible to the
three that follow, and will all be found to coincide ultimately,
though they may appear different at first view.
The first sense in which natural religion may be used, is that
of this proposition ; in which it is put for that love and reverence
towards God, and obedience to his will, which the light of nature,
or the consideration of the works of God, enjoins. In this sense
it is most properly opposed to, and contradistinguished from, re
vealed religion, or those affections and actions towards God,
which the Scripture, or the word of God, enjoins.
Secondly, Natural religion may be defined such a regulation of
the affections and actions as the moral sense requires : for the
moral sense is a part of the light of nature, and of our natural
faculties, whether it be considered as an instinct, or as the gene
rated result of external impressions and our natural frame taken
together, according to what is delivered in the first part of these
observations ; and this moral sense approves and commands, or
disapproves and forbids, certain dispositions of mind, and bodily
actions flowing 'therefrom. It is also called the law of first in
scription by many persons, and under that term distinguished
from the law of revelation, which is supposed posterior to it in
order of time. Hence the same persons consider the moral sense,
or law of first inscription, as the foundation of natural religion :
and, indeed, most persons either expressly adopt, or implicitly
refer to, this definition of natural religion in their writings and
discourses. The heathen world, not having the immediate light
of revelation, are supposed to have had nothing more than the
mere light of nature, and mere natural religion ; and they seem
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 351
to have been chiefly directed by the sense of what was fit, right,
and proper, upon the occasion, i.e. by the moral sense. Natural
religion may therefore, according to this way of considering it,
be properly defined by the moral sense.
Thirdly, Natural religion may be defined by rational self-inte- -
rest ; i. e. it may be called such a regulation of our affections and
actions, as will procure for us our summum bonum, or greatest
possible happiness. If we suppose the inquiries of the ancients
concerning the summum bonum to have been of a religious and
moral nature, then will this definition be suitable to their notions.
However, it has a very important use, viz. that of compelling us
to be attentive, impartial, and earnest in the inquiry.
I will now proceed, first, to prove the proposition, or to deduce
love and reverence to God, and obedience to his will, from the
preceding method of reasoning concerning the course and consti
tution of nature ; and, secondly, to shew the perfect agreement
of all these three definitions of natural religion with each other.
Now it is at once evident, that the consideration of the infinite
power, knowledge, and goodness of God, of his holiness, justice,
veracity, and mercy, and of his being our Creator, Governor,
Judge, and Father, must inspire us with the highest love and
reverence for him, and beget in us that tendency to comply with
his will, which, according to the proper use of language, is called
a sense of duty, obligation, of what we ought to do. It is evident
also, that the will of God must be determined by his attributes
and appellations. He must therefore will, that we should apply
to him, as we do to earthly superiors of the same character,
purifying, however, and exalting our affections to the utmost;
that we should be merciful, holy, just, &c. in imitation of him,
and because this is to concur with him in his great design of
making all his creatures happy ; and lastly, that we should so use
the pleasures of sense, and the enjoyments of this world, as not
to hurt ourselves or others. There is therefore a course of action
regarding God, our neighbour, and ourselves, plainly enjoined by
the light of nature ; or, in the words of the proposition, there is
a religion of nature properly so called.
I come, in the next place, to shew the agreement of the second
and third definitions of natural religion with the first, or with
that of the proposition.
Now, that compliance with the moral sense coincides with
obedience to the will of God, needs no proof, it being the first
and immediate dictate of the moral sense, that it is fit, right, and
our necessary duty, to obey God, as soon as he is discovered, with
the amiable and awful attributes and appellations above ascribed
to him. There is, therefore, an entire agreement between the
first and second definitions. It may appear also, that the first
rule of duty is necessary to perfect the second. For the moral
sense, as will appear from the preceding history of its rise and
growth, must be vague and uncertain, and vary according to the
352 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
various circumstances of life. But the moral character of God,
as delivered in the foregoing propositions, affords a plain rule of
life, applicable and precise in the various circumstances of it.
When, therefore, obedience to the will of God is established by
the moral sense, it does, in return, become a regulator to this,
determine its uncertainties, and reconcile its inconsistencies.
And, agreeably to this, we may observe, that the perfection of
the moral sense is in general proportional to the perfection of
our notions of the divine nature ; and that the idolatry of the
heathens, and their ignorance of the true God, must have pro
duced an utter perversion and corruption of their moral sense,
agreeably to the declarations of the Scriptures ; which is a re
markable coincidence of reason with revelation.
In like manner, it needs no proof, that rational self-interest,
and obedience to the will of God, are the same thing. Our only
hope and security, here and hereafter, must be in our obedience
to him, who has all power and all knowledge. And thus the first
and third definitions are found to be perfectly coincident. The
second and third, therefore, i. e. the whole three, are coincident
also.
This coincidence might be confirmed by numberless instances,
were we to consider and compare together the dictates of the
moral character of God, of our own moral sense properly di
rected, and of rational self-interest in the several particular
circumstances of life. But this would be to anticipate what I
have to say in the third chapter of this second part concerning
the rule of life.
Prof. XIII.—Natural Religion receives great Light and Con
firmation from Revealed.
It seems to be the opinion of some persons, that revealed
religion is entirely founded upon natural ; so that unless natural
religion be first established upon its own proper evidences, we
cannot proceed at all to the proof of revealed. If this were so,
revealed religion could not cast any light or evidence upon
natural, but what it had before received from it; and conse
quently, this proposition would be built upon that false way of
reasoning which is called arguing in a circle,. But there are
certainly independent evidences for revealed religion, as well as
for natural ; they both receive light and confirmation from each
other; and this mutual confirmation is a still farther evidence
for both. I will give a short account of all these particulars,
that the proposition may the more fully appear.
First, Natural religion has independent evidences. This has
been the business of the foregoing propositions, and particularly
of the last, to shew. And indeed, it is acknowledged by all,
unless they be atheists or sceptics. We are certainly able to
infer the existence and attributes of God, with bur relation and
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 353
duty to him, from the mere consideration of natural phaenomena,
in the same manner as we do any conclusions in natural philo
sophy. And though our evidence here may not perhaps be
demonstrative, it is certainly probable in the highest degree.
Secondly, Revealed religion has also independent evidences.
For, if we allow the miracles mentioned in the Old and New
Testaments, the genuineness and accomplishment of the pro
phecies contained therein, and the moral characters of Christ,
the Prophets, and Apostles, it will be impossible not to pay the
greatest regard to the doctrines and precepts which they deliver,
*. e. to revealed religion. We do, and we must always, give
credit to persons much superior to ourselves in natural and moral
endowments. These endowments strike us with awe and reve
rence, engage our attention, humble us, and put us into a
teachable, flexible disposition. And I appeal to all those, who
do really believe the miracles and moral characters of Christ,
the Prophets, and Apostles, and the accomplishment of the
prophecies delivered by them, whether they do not immediately
And themselves in this humble, teachable disposition of mind,
upon considering these credentials of a divine mission, and that
exclusively of all other considerations. As to those who do not
suppose Christ, the Prophets, and Apostles, to have had these
credentials, they can scarce be proper judges, what would be the
genuine consequence of a state of mind, of a belief, which they
have not. However, one may appeal even to them, provided
they will only suppose these credentials true for a moment, in
order to see what would then follow. And it is a strong argu
ment of the justness of this reasoning, that all those who reject
revealed religion, do also reject the credentials, i. e. the truth of
the Scripture history. Revealed religion is therefore built upon
the truth of the Scripture history, i. e. upon the external evi
dences commonly called historical and prophetical. But these
evidences are to be tried in the same manner as the evidences for
any other history, and Jiave no more connexion with natural reli
gion, and its evidences, such, for instance, as those delivered in
this chapter, than the evidences for the Greek or Roman history.
So that revealed religion has evidences, and those of the strongest
kind, entirely independent on natural religion.
Thirdly, Natural religion receives much light and confirmation
from revealed, agreeably to the proposition here to be proved.
This follows both because revealed religion, now shewn to have
its independent evidences, teaches the same doctrines concerning
God as I have remarked already in several places, and delivers
the same precepts to man, in the general, as natural ; and because
these very independent evidences, viz. the miracles and moral
characters of Christ, the Prophets, and Apostles, and the accom
plishment of their prophecies, have a direct and immediate ten
dency to beget in us a deep sense and conviction of a Superior
Power, and of his providence and moral government over the
A A
354 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
world. So that if a man should either be ignorant of the chain
of reasoning by which the existence and attributes of God, and
natural religion, are proved from the phaenomena of the world ;
or should, from some depravation of mind, intellectual or moral,
be disposed to call in question this chain of reasoning, in whole
or in part; he must however come to the same conclusions, from
the mere force of the historical and prophetical evidences in
favour of the Scriptures. And this is a thing of the utmost im
portance to mankind, there being many who are incapable of
pursuing this chain of reasoning, many who, though capable, are
disinclined to it, many who, from their vices, have a contrary
inclination, and some who, seeing the perplexity and obscurity
that attend some subordinate parts of this reasoning, are disposed
to doubt about the whole. For though something of the same
kind holds in respect of the historical and prophetical evidences
for the truth of the Scriptures, especially of the last, yet, in
general, these are more level to the capacities of the inferior
ranks amongst mankind, and more simple and striking than the
independent evidences for natural religion ; and if they were but
equally convincing, they would, however, make the evidence
double upon the whole. Not to mention, that it is an inex
pressible satisfaction to the best men, and the ablest philosophers,
those who have the most entire conviction from natural reason,
to have this new and distinct support for such important truths.
It may be added as an argument in favour of the reasoning of
this paragraph, *. e. of the proposition here to be proved, to those
who believe revealed religion, that God has thought fit to teach
mankind natural religion chiefly by means of revealed.
Fourthly, Revealed religion receives great light and confirma
tion from natural. For if we suppose a person to be first in
structed in the doctrines and precepts of natural religion, and to
be entirely convinced of their truth and fitness from the mere
light of reason, and then to have the Scriptures communicated to
him, the conformity of these with his previous notions would be
a strong evidence in their favour, i. e. in favour of the miracles,
prophecies, and those doctrines which are peculiar to revealed
religion. When, farther, he came to perceive, that many of the
writers of the sacred books lived when the truths of natural reli
gion were unknown to the rest of the world, and that many also
were of so low a rank in life, that they cannot be supposed to
have known even so much as the rest of the world did by
natural means, he will be strongly inclined to allow them that
supernatural light which they claim, *. e. to allow their divine
authority.
Lastly, The mutual light and confirmation which natural and
revealed religion cast upon each other, and the analogy which
there is between their proper evidences, and even that between
the several obscurities and perplexities that attend each, are a
new argument in Javour of both,' considered as united together,
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 355
and making one rule of life, and the charter of a happy immor
tality. For resemblance, agreement, and harmony of the parts,
are the peculiar characteristics of truth, as inconsistency and self-
contradiction are of fiction and falsehood.
Prop. XIV.—Religion presupposes Free-will in the popular and
practical Sense ; i. e. it presupposes a voluntary Power over
our Affections and Actions.
For religion being the regulation of our affections and actions
according to the will of God, it presupposes, that after this will
is made known to us, and we, in consequence thereof, become
desirous of complying with it, a sufficient power of complying
with it should be put into our hands. Thus, for instance, since
religion commands us to love God and our neighbour, it pre
supposes that we have the power of generating these affections
in ourselves, by introducing the proper generating causes, and
making the proper associations, i. e. by meditation, religious
conversation, and reading practical books of religion and prayer.
Since religion requires of us to perform beneficent actions, and
to abstain from injurious ones, also to abstain from all those self-
indulgences which would be hurtful to ourselves, it presupposes
either that we have a power of so doing, or at least a power of
generating such dispositions of mind as will enable us so to do.
Farther, it presupposes that we have a power of making perpetual
improvement in virtuous affections and actions, since this also is
required of us by it. Still farther, since religion requires of a
man this regulation of his affections and actions, and since the
powers hitherto mentioned are all grounded upon a sufficient
desire thus to regulate himself, it must presuppose a power of
generating this sufficient desire, and so on till we come to some
thing which the man is already possessed of, as part of his mental
frame, either conferred in a supernatural way, or acquired in the
usual course of nature. For religion, in requiring the powers
above-mentioned, requires also whatever previous powers are
necessary to the actual exertion of these powers. But all these
powers, of whatever order they are, the last excepted, are those
powers over our affections and actions, which I have, in the fore
going part of this work, endeavoured to derive from association,
and shewn to be the same with those which are commonly called
voluntary powers. It follows therefore, that religion requires
voluntary powers over our affections and actions, or free-will in
the popular and practical sense.
This may be illustrated by the consideration of the state of
madmen, idiots, children, and brutes, in respect of religion. For
as they are all esteemed to be incapable of religion, and exempted
from the obligation thereof, so the reason of this in all is evi
dently, that they are destitute of the proper voluntary powers
a a 2
356 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
over their affections and actions ; the association requisite thereto
having never been formed in idiots, children, and brutes, and
being confounded and destroyed in madmen. For suppose the
child to be grown up, and the madman to recover his senses, *. e.
suppose the associations requisite for the voluntary powers to be
generated or restored, and religion will claim them as its proper
subjects.
In like manner it may be observed, that when any action is
commended or blamed ; this is always done upon supposition,
that the action under consideration was the effect of voluntary
powers. Thus, when a man commits an action otherwise blame-
able, through inattention, ignorance, or disease, he is excused on
account of its being involuntary ; unless the inattention, igno
rance, or disease, were themselves voluntary, and then the blame
remains. But commendation and blame are ideas that belong to
religion : it appears therefore, that voluntary powers must belong
to it also.
I asserted above, that religion not only requires and presupposes
the common voluntary powers, by which we perform and forbear
actions, and new-model our affections, but also whatever else,
voluntary or involuntary, is necessary for the actual exertion of
these powers. And the connexion between these points seems
to be immediate and undeniable; to require any thing, must be
to require all that is necessary for that thing. And yet, since
all men do not act up to the precepts of religion, it seems un
deniable, on the other hand, that some want something that is
necessary, immediately or mediately, for the actual exertion of
the proper voluntary powers over their affections and actions.
Now, I see no way of extricating ourselves from this difficulty,
but by supposing that those who want this one necessary thing
at present, will, however, obtain it hereafter, and that they who
shall obtain it at any distant future time, may be said to have
obtained it already, in the eye of Him to whom past, present,
and future, are all present, who quickeneth the dead, and calleth
the things that be not as though they were. For that the supposi
tion of free-will, in the philosophical sense, cannot solve this
difficulty, will appear, I think, in the next proposition.
Cok. It may be reckoned some confirmation of religion, that
the voluntary powers which it requires, according to this proposi
tion, are an evident fact, and also that they are deducible from
the frame of our natures, i. e. from our original faculties, and
the law of association, taken together. For thus religion may be
said to harmonize with observation, and with the nature of man,
its subject.
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 357
Prop. XV.—Religion does not presuppose Free-will in the philo
sophical Sense ; i. e. it does not presuppose a Power of doing
different Things, the previous Circumstances remaining the
same.
For, first, It has been shewn, in the foregoing part of this
work, that we do not, in fact, ever exert any such power in the
important actions of our lives, or the strong workings of our
affections, all these being evidently determinable by the previous
circumstances. There are therefore no actions or affections left,
except trifling and evanescent ones, in which religion can pre
suppose philosophical free-will, or liberty; and even here the
evidence for it is merely an argumentum ab ignorantia. But if
religion requires philosophical liberty at all, it must require it
chiefly in the most important actions and affections. It does not
therefore require it at all. We cannot suppose religion to be
at variance with common observation, and the frame of our
natures.
Secondly, Some reasons have been given already, in the first
part of this work, and more will be added in the next proposition,
to shew that philosophical liberty cannot take place in man, but
is an impossibility. It is therefore impossible that religion
should require it.
Thirdly, It appears from the course of reasoning used under
the foregoing proposition, that all which religion does require
and presuppose, is, first, a sufficient desire, hope, fear, self-
interest, or other such like motive, and then sufficient voluntary
powers, whereby to regulate our affections and actions agreeably
to the will of God. But philosophical liberty, or the power of
doing different things, the previous circumstances remaining the
same, is so far from being required, in order to our obtaining
any of these requisites, that it is inconsistent with them. For
the sufficient desire, &c. unless it be given by God in a super
natural way, is of a factitious nature, and follows the previous
circumstances with a rigorous exactness; in like manner the
voluntary powers are all generated according to the law of asso
ciation, which law operates in a mechanical, necessary way, and
admits of no variations, while the circumstances remain the same ;
all which is, I presume, sufficiently evident to those who have
well considered the foregoing part of this work. These requisites
are therefore inconsistent with philosophical liberty, inasmuch as
this implies, that though there be a desire sufficient to cause the
exertion of the will, this exertion may or may not follow ; also,
that though the voluntary powers depending on this exertion be
completely generated by association, they may or may not follow
it in fact. This supposition is indeed absurd at first sight;
however, if it be admitted for a moment, in order to see what
would follow, it is manifest, that the man will be rendered less
able to comply with the will of God thereby, and that it will not
Sj8 the being and attributes of god,
add to, but take away from, the requisites proposed by religion.
Philosophical liberty does not therefore help us to solve the diffi
culty mentioned under the last proposition, but, on the contrary,
increases it.
If it should be said, that we are not to suppose the desire
sufficient, and the voluntary powers complete, and then farther
to suppose that these may or may not take effect, but only to
suppose desire in general, sufficient or insufficient, and voluntary
powers in general, complete or incomplete, and that thus it will
not be unreasonable to suppose that they may or may not take
effect ; whence the manifest absurdity mentioned in the last
paragraph will be removed ; I answer, that this is to desert the
hypothesis of philosophical liberty, the previous circumstances
being supposed different, that so their consequences may be
different also. If any particular degree of desire or voluntary
power be fixed upon, and all the other concurring circumstances
of body and mind fixed likewise, i. e. if the previous circumstances
be rigorously determinate, which is the supposition of philo
sophical liberty, this one fixed, determinate degree of desire, or
voluntary power, cannot have the two opposite epithets of suffi
cient and insufficient, or of complete or incomplete, both predi
cated of it with truth, define sufficiency or completeness as you
please. Philosophical liberty does not therefore allow us to
suppose desire or voluntary power in general, in order that they
either may or may not take effect.
Fourthly, It will appear, that religion does not presuppose
philosophical liberty, if we enter upon the examination of those
arguments which are commonly brought to shew that it does.
These are, that unless philosophical liberty be admitted, there
will be no foundation for commendation or blame, and conse
quently no difference between virtue and vice; that all punish
ment for actions, usually called vicious, will be unjust ; and that
God will be the author of such actions, which it is impious to
suppose ; inasmuch as the notion of popular liberty is not suffi
cient to obviate these difficulties. Now, to this I answer, that
there are two different methods of speaking, and, as it were, two
different languages, used upon these subjects; the one popular,
and, when applied to God, anthropomorphitical; the other philo
sophical ; and that the notion of popular liberty is sufficient to
obviate these difficulties, while we keep to the popular language
alone ; also, that the philosophical language does of itself obviate
these difficulties, while we keep to it alone ; but that, if we mix
these languages, then, and not till then, insuperable difficulties
will arise, as might well be expected. Let us consider each of
these positions particularly.
First then, I say that the supposition of popular liberty is
sufficient to obviate the fore-mentioned difficulties, whilst we
keep to the popular language alone. For, in the popular lan
guage, a man is commended and blamed merely for the right or
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 359
wrong use of his voluntary powers ; the first is called virtue, the
last vice; and rewards and punishments are said to be respectively
due to them. Thus, when a man, having an opportunity to do a
beneficent action, exerts an act of will, and in consequence thereof
does it, he is commended for it ; it is called a virtue, or a right
use of his voluntary powers, and is said to deserve a reward ;
whereas, had he, in like circumstances, done a malevolent action,
he would have been blamed for it ; it would have been called a
wrong use of his voluntary powers, or a vice ; and a punishment
inflicted upon him, in consequence hereof, would have been said
to be just. This is a mere history of the fact, and a narration of
the method in which the words here considered acquire their
proper senses ; and I appeal to the general tenor of writings and
discourses for the support of what is here asserted. If no volun
tary action be exerted, the words commendation, right use, virtue,
reward, on one hand, also the words blame, wrong use, vice,
punishment, on the other, become entirely unapplicable. If there
be, and the motive be good, suppose piety or benevolence, the
first set of words take place; if the motive be bad, the last.
Men, in the common use of language, never consider whether
the agent had it in his power to have done otherwise, the previous
circumstances remaining the same ; they only require that he
should have done a beneficent action, from a benevolent intention.
If they find this, they will apply the words commendation, right
use, &c. And the same holds in respect of injurious actions, and
malevolent intentions. The agent will, in this case, be blamed,
and said to be justly punished, without any farther inquiry.
Sometimes, indeed, they do inquire farther, viz. into the original
of these intentions. But then this comes to the same thing at
last; for if these intentions were generated voluntarily, it en
hances the commendation of blame due to them ; if, in great
measure, involuntarily, abates it. Popular liberty, or voluntary
powers, do therefore afford sufficient foundation for commendation
and blame, for the difference between virtue and vice, and for the
justice of punishing vice according to the popular language.
Where it is to be remarked, that whatever will justify punish
ments inflicted by men, will justify those inflicted by God in like
circumstances, since justice is ascribed to God only in a popular
and anthropomorphitical sense.
And as popular liberty suffices for the fore-mentioned purposes,
whilst we use the popular language, so it vindicates God from the
charge of being the author of sin, according to the same language.
For, according to this, all voluntary actions are ascribed to men,
not to God ; but sin, or vice, always presupposes an exertion of
a voluntary power, according to the popular language ; therefore
sin must be ascribed to man, and not to God, as long as we con
tinue to speak the popular language.
Secondly, I say, that if we keep to the philosophical language
alone, it will obviate all difficulties, and enable us to talk con
300 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
sistently and clearly upon these subjects. For, according to this,
virtue and vice are to actions, what secondary qualities are to
natural bodies ; i. e. only ways of expressing the relation which
they bear to happiness and misery, just as the secondary qualities
of bodies are only modifications of the primary ones. And the
same may be said of all the other words belonging to the moral
sense. Hence it follows, that, according to the philosophical
language, we are to consider all the moral appellations of actions
as only denoting their relation to natural good and evil, and that
moral good and evil are only compositions and decompositions of
natural. There is, however, a difference between moral good and
evil, because they are different and opposite compositions : they
may also be attended with different and opposite compositions ;
from the frame of our natures, and circumstances of our lives,
such as commendation and blame.
And as justice in God is, by the same language, exalted into
benevolence, he may inflict punishment, i. e. another species of
natural evil, justly, provided it be consistent with benevolence,
i. e. with a balance of happiness. Man may also inflict punish
ments justly, provided he does it according to some definition of
justice amongst men, previously settled and allowed, suppose
compliance with the will of God, the laws of society, the greater
good of the whole, &c.
Farther, Since all the actions of man proceed ultimately from
God, the one universal cause, we must, according to this lan
guage, annihilate self, and ascribe all to God. But then, since
vice, sin, &c. are only modifications and compositions of natural
evil, according to the same language, this will only be to ascribe
natural evil to him : and, if the balance of natural good be infi
nite, then even this natural evil will be absolved and annihilated
by it.
It may a little illustrate what is here delivered, to remark,
that as we should not say of a Superior Being, whose sight could
penetrate to the ultimate constitution of bodies, that he distin
guished colours, but rather, that he distinguished those modifi
cations of matter which produce the appearances of colours in
us, so we ought not to ascribe our secondary ideas of virtue
and vice to superior intelligences, and much less to the supreme.
Thirdly, I say, that if we mix these two languages, many
difficulties and absurdities must ensue from this previous absurdity.
Thus, if, retaining the popular notions of moral good and evil,
we suppose God, according to the philosophical language, to be
benevolent only, *. e. to regard only natural good and evil, or to
be the author of all actions, the consequence will be impious. If
we adhere to the philosophical notions of virtue and vice, we
must not retain the popular notion of God's justice, inasmuch as
punishment will then be unjust; as it will also be, if we join the
popular notion of God's justice with the philosophical one, of his
being the author of all actions. Lastly, If we allow man to
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 06 1
consider himself as the author of his own actions, he must also
consider virtue and vice according to the popular notions, and
conceive of God as endued with the popular attribute of justice,
in order to be incited to virtue, and deterred from vice; whereas,
could man really annihilate himself, and refer all to God, perfect
love would cast out fear, he would immediately become partaker
of the divine nature, and, being one with God, would see him
to be pure benevolence and love, and all that he has made to be
good.
The following remark may perhaps contribute to illustrate this
matter. Virtue and vice, merit and demerit, reward and punish
ment, are applied to voluntary actions only, as before mentioned.
Hence they are esteemed unapplicable to involuntary ones. But
involuntary actions are necessary by a necessity ab extra, which
is generally seen ; and because the necessity ab intra, which
causes voluntary actions, is seldom seen, these are supposed not
to be necessary. Hence not necessary and necessary, are put for
voluntary and involuntary', respectively ; and moral appellations
supposed peculiar to the first, i. e. not necessary; inconsistent
with the last, i. e. necessary. Hence, when we come to discover
our mistake, and to find that voluntary actions are necessary, an
inconsistency arises ; we apply moral appellations to them as
voluntary from a primary association, deny these appellations of
them on account of their new denomination of necessary, and a
secondary and tralatitious association. Here then, if we can
either persist in our mistake, and still suppose voluntary actions
not to be necessary ; or, finding this mistake, can however persist
to apply moral appellations to such necessary actions as are
voluntary, from the primary association ; or, lastly, not being
able to withstand the force of the secondary association, whereby
moral appellations are denied of necessary actions, voluntary as
well as involuntary, can perceive that moral good and evil are
only compositions of natural, *. e. if we can either see the whole
truth, or shut our eyes against that part that offends us ; no
difficulty will arise.
Philosophical liberty is also supposed by some necessary, in
order to solve the origin of evil, and to justify the eternity of
punishment ; and the obviating of these difficulties is brought as
an argument in support of it. Now here I observe,
First, That the origin of evil may be made consistent with the
benevolence of God, by supposing that every creature has a
balance of happiness; and, consequently, since this is a suppo
sition highly probable, there seems to be little need of philo
sophical liberty for this purpose.
Secondly, That since this supposition is highly probable, the
eternity of punishment is highly improbable ; and, consequently,
that philosophical liberty may be needless here also.
Thirdly, That philosophical liberty will not solve the origin of
evil. The method of reasoning used here is some such as this.
362 THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
If man have not philosophical liberty, but always does the same
thing, where the previous circumstances are the same, then all
his actions are to be referred to God ; consequently, if he have
philosophical liberty, all his actions need not be referred to God ;
he is an independent creature in some things, and is himself
alone chargeable with some of his actions. Let man act wrong
in these independent cases, and the evil which follows will be
chargeable upon man, and not God ; *. e. the origin of evil will
be accounted for. But here it is to be observed, that there are
some evils, or sufferings, which cannot be supposed to arise from
the abuse of free-will in the creature that suffers, as in the pains
which happen to children just born, and to brutes. These evils
are not, therefore, chargeable upon them. If, therefore, they be
chargeable upon free-will, it must be the free-will of some other
creature. But this is as great a difficulty as that which it is
brought to solve ; and cannot be solved but by supposing that
God gives a balance of happiness to A, for what he suffers from
B. Now this supposition, in its full extent, will solve the first
difficulty, and make the hypothesis of free-will entirely unneces
sary, as observed above. But, besides this, it is to be considered,
that since free-will is thus the occasion of introducing evil into
the world, the restless, selfish, objecting creature will ask why he
has free-will, since it is not this, but happiness, which he desires,
and hoped from the divine benevolence, the attribute now to be
vindicated. He that produces any cause, does, in effect, produce
the thing caused. To give a being a power of making itself
miserable, if this being use that power, is just the same thing, in
him who has infinite power and knowledge, as directly making
him miserable ; and appears to be no otherwise consistent with
benevolence to that being, than upon supposition, that superior
happiness is conferred upon him afterwards. Now this removes
the difficulty in the case of necessity, as well as of free-will, in
the eye of reason, of an Infinite Being; and clashes less and less
without limits with the imagination, as we advance in intellect,
disinterestedness, and absolute resignation to God.
If it be said, that God could not but bestow free-will upon his
creatures, I answer, that this is gratis dictum, there not being
the least appearance of evidence for it; also, that it is making
God subject to a necessity superior to himself, which would be
to raise a greater difficulty than it solves. And, upon the whole,
we may conclude, that the supposition of free-will, or liberty, in
the philosophical sense, does not at all help us to account for the
origin of evil.
Fourthly, Since free-will cannot account for finite evil, much
less can it account for infinite, i. e. for the eternity of punish
ment. And indeed many, who receive free-will, do, however,
see its insufficiency for this purpose, and, in consequence thereof,
believe that the punishments of a future state will not be eternal.
It is true, indeed, that the arguments against the eternity of
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 363
punishment are shorter, stronger, and clearer, upon the sup
position of necessity, of God's being the real, ultimate author of
all actions, than upon the supposition of free-will. But then this
seems, if all things be duly considered, to be rather a presumption
in favour of the doctrine of necessity, than otherwise.
The invention and application of the hypothesis of free-will,
for the vindication of the divine benevolence, has probably arisen
from the application of what passes in human affairs, in too strict
a manner, to the relation between the Creator and his creatures ;
*. e. to an anthropomorphitism of too gross a kind. Thus the
actions of a son are free, in respect of his father; i.e. though the
father can and does influence the son in many things, yet the son's
actions depend upon many circumstances, impressions, associa
tions, &c. in which the father has no concern. It will, therefore, be
a sufficient vindication of the father's benevolence to the son, if he
has taken care that the son suffers nothing from the things over
which the father has power. What evils happen to the son,
from quarters where the son is free in respect of his father,
*. e, uninfluenced by him, these are no ways to be referred to the
father. Now, it is very natural for humble and pious men, in
considering the sins and miseries of mankind, to suppose that we
have some such powers independent of God; and that all the evil,
which happens to each person, is to be derived from these inde
pendent powers. But then this notion should not be hastily and
blindly embraced and maintained, without an examination of the
fact, and of the consistency of such a notion with piety, in other
respects. The first of these points I have already considered in
the foregoing part of this work ; the last I shall now consider in
the following proposition.
Prop. XVI.—The natural Attributes of God, or his infinite
Power and Knowledge, exclude the Possibility of Free-will in
the philosophical Sense.
For, to suppose that man has a power independent of God,
is to suppose that God's power does not extend to all things, i. e.
is not infinite. If it be said, that the power itself depends upon
God, but the exertion of it upon man, the same difficulty will
recur : since the exertion does not depend upon God, there will
be something produced in the world, which is not the effect of
his power ; i. e. his power will not extend to all things, con
sequently not be infinite. And the same thing holds, if we refine
farther, and proceed to the exertion of the exertion, &c. If this
depend upon man, God's power will be limited by man's; if
upon God, we return to the hypothesis of necessity, and of God's
being the author of all things. However, the simplest and
clearest way is to suppose, that power, and the exertion of
power, are one and the same thing; for power is never known
but by its actual exertion, *. e. is no power till it be exerted.
THE BEING AND ATTRIBUTES OF GOD,
If, indeed, we say that man's actions depend both upon God and
himself, this seems at first sight to solve the difficulty. Since
they depend upon God, his power may be infinite ; since they
depend on man, they may be ascribed to him. But then the
thing in man on which they depend, call it what you please, must
either depend upon God or not ; if it does, necessity returns ; if
not, God's infinite power is infringed. And the same thing
will hold, as it appears to me, in any other way of stating this
matter.
Again, To suppose that a man may do either the action A, or
its opposite a, the previous circumstances remaining the same, is
to suppose that one of them may arise without a cause ; for the
same previous circumstances cannot be the cause of the two oppo
site effects. Now, if any thing can arise without a cause, all
things may, by parity of reason ; which is contrary to the first
proposition of this chapter, or to the common foundation upon
which writers have erected their arguments for the being and
attributes of God. To say, that free-will is the cause, is an
identical proposition ; since it is saying, that the power of doing
different things, the previous circumstances remaining the same,
is the cause that this may be done, viz. that either A or a may
follow the same previous circumstances. Or, if we put for philo
sophical free-will the power of doing things without a cause, it
will be a word of nearly the same import as chance. For chance
is the ignorance or denial of a cause. It will therefore be as
unfit to ascribe a real casualty to free-will as to chance.
And as free-will is inconsistent with the infinite power of God,
so it is with his infinite knowledge also. For infinite knowledge
must include the knowledge of all future things, as well as of all
past and present ones. Besides, past, present, and future, are
all present with respect to God, as has been observed before.
Infinite knowledge must therefore include prescience. But free
will does not allow of prescience. Knowledge of all kinds
presupposes the certainty of the thing known ; i. e. presupposes
that it is determined in respect of time, place, manner, &c. i. e.
presupposes it to be necessary. Thus, if we consider any thing
as known certainly, or certain simply, such as a mathematical
truth, a past fact, &c. we shall find it to be necessary, and that
it cannot be otherwise than it now is, or was formerly ; which is
the contrary to what is supposed of the actions of creatures
endued with free-will. These actions, therefore, cannot be
known or foreknown, not being the objects of knowledge.
The maintainers of necessity do indeed deny, that there is any
such thing as uncertainty at all ; unless as far as this is put
relatively for the limitation of knowledge in any being, so that
the thing called uncertain may or may not be, for any thing that
this being knows to the contrary. But if they do, for argument's
sake, allow such a thing as absolute uncertainty, *. e. that a
thing either may or may not be, it is plain, that this absolute
AND NATURAL RELIGION. 3G5
uncertainty must include the relative, i. e. exclude knowledge
and foreknowledge. That action of B which either may or may
not be, cannot be known certainly to be by A, because it may
not be ; it cannot be known not to be, because it may be.
Suppose A to make conjectures concerning any future action
of B. Then this action may or may not be, for any thing A
knows to the contrary ; it also may or may not be in itself, pro
vided there be any such thing as absolute uncertainty. Suppose
A"s conjecture to pass into a well-grounded probability of a high
degree, that the action will happen, then both the relative and
absolute may not, are reduced to narrow limits. Suppose A's
conjectures to arise to knowledge or certainty, then both the
relative and absolute may not vanish. A cannot know, or be
certain, that a thing will happen, at the same time that it may or
may not happen, for any thing that he knows to the contrary ;
nor can a thing be relatively certain, and absolutely uncertain.
As foreknowledge does therefore imply relative certainty ; this
requires absolute certainty ; and absolute certainty is in express
terms opposite to philosophical free-will. Foreknowledge is
therefore inconsistent with free-will; or rather free-will, if it
were possible, would exclude foreknowledge. It is not therefore
possible.
Nor does it alter the case here to allege, that God's infinite
knowledge must extend infinitely farther than man's, and, conse
quently, may extend to things uncertain in themselves, since the
very terms knowledge and uncertain are inconsistent. To make
them consistent we must affix some new and different sense to
one of them, which would be to give up either the divine fore
knowledge or free-will in reality, while we pretend in words to
maintain them. If God's knowledge be supposed to differ so
much from man's in this simple essential circumstance, that the
certainty of it does not imply the certainty of the thing known,
we lose all conception of it. And if the same liberties were used
with the divine power and benevolence, we should lose all con
ception of the divine nature.
To which it may be added, that the reasoning in the last para
graph but one, concerning the knowledge of the being A, is not
at all affected, or altered, by his rank, as to intelligence. Sup
pose his intellectual capacities to be greater and greater perpe
tually, still all things remain precisely the same, without the
least variation. They will therefore, according to the analogy of
ultimate ratios, remain precisely the same, though his knowledge
be supposed infinite. It follows, therefore, that God's infinite
and certain knowledge, or his foreknowledge, is as inconsistent
with philosophical free-will, as man's finite, but certain know
ledge or foreknowledge.
CHAP. II.
THE TRUTH OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
To believe the Christian religion, is to believe that Moses and
the prophets, Christ and his apostles, were endued with divine
authority; that they had a commission from God to act and
teach as they did, and that he will verify their declarations con
cerning future things, and especially those concerning a future
life, by the event ; or, in other words, it is to receive the
Scriptures as our rule of life, and the foundation of all our hopes
and fears. And as all those who regulate their faith and prac
tice by the Scriptures are Christians ; so all those who disclaim
that name, and pass under the general title of unbelievers, do
also disavow this regard to the Scriptures. But there are various
classes of unbelievers. Some appear to treat the Scriptures as
mere forgeries ; others allow them to be the genuine writings of
those whose names they bear, but suppose them to abound with
fictions, not only in the miraculous, but also in the common part
of the history ; others, again, allow this part, but reject that ;
and, lastly, there are others who seem to allow the truth of the
principal facts, both common and miraculous, contained in the
Scriptures, and yet still call in question its divine authority, as a
rule of life, and an evidence of a happy futurity under Christ our
Saviour and King. He, therefore, that would satisfy himself or
others in the truth of the christian religion, as opposed by these
several classes of unbelievers, must inquire into these three
things :
First, The genuineness of the books of the Old and New
Testaments.
Secondly, The truth of the principal facts contained in them,
both common and miraculous. And,
Thirdly, Their divine authority.
I will endeavour, therefore, to state some of the chief evidences
for each of these important points, having first premised three
preparatory propositions, or lemmas, whereby the evidence for
any one of them may be transferred upon the other two.
TRUTH OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 367
Prop. XVII.— The Genuineness of the Scriptures proves the
Truth of the principal Facts contained in them.
For, first, It is very rare to meet with any genuine writings
of the historical kind, in which the principal facts are not true ;
unless where both the motives which engaged the author to
falsify, and the circumstances which gave some plausibility to the
fiction, are apparent; neither of which can be alleged in the
present case with any colour of reason. Where the writer of a
history appears to the world as such, not only his moral sense,
but his regard to his character and his interest, are strong
motives not to falsify in notorious matters; he must therefore
have stronger motives from the opposite quarter, and also a
favourable conjuncture of circumstances, before he can attempt
this.
Secondly, As this is rare in general, so it is much more rare,
where the writer treats of things that happened in his own time,
and under his own cognizance or direction, and communicates his
history to persons under the same circumstances. All which may
be said of the writers of the Scripture history.
That this and the following arguments may be applied with
more ease and clearness, I will here, in one view, refer the
books of the Old and New Testaments to their proper authors.
I suppose then, that the Pentateuch consists of the writings of
Moses, put together by Samuel, with a very few additions ; that
the books of Joshua and Judges were, in like manner, collected
by him ; and the book of Ruth, wfth the first part of the first
book of Samuel, written by him ; that the latter part of the first
book of Samuel, and the second book, were written by the
prophets who succeeded Samuel, suppose Nathan and Gad ; that
the books of Kings and Chronicles are extracts from the records
of the succeeding prophets concerning their own times, and from
the public genealogical tables, made by Ezra ; that the books of
Ezra and Nehemiah are collections of like records, some written
by Ezra and Nehemiah, and some by their predecessors ; that the
book of Esther was written by some eminent Jew, in or near the
times of the transaction there recorded, perhaps Mordecai ; the
book of Job by a Jew of an uncertain time ; the Psalms by David,
and other pious persons ; the books of Proverbs and Canticles by
Solomon ; the book of Ecclesiastes by Solomon, or perhaps by a
Jew of later times, speaking in his person, but not with an inten
tion to make him pass for the author; the prophecies by the
prophets whose names they bear ; and the books of the New
Testament by the persons to whom they are usually ascribed.
There are many internal evidences, and in the case of the New
Testament many external evidences also by which these books
may be shewn to belong to the authors here named. Or, if
there be any doubts, they are merely of a critical nature, and do
not at all affect the genuineness of the books, nor alter the appli
308 -THE TRUTH OF
cation of these arguments, or not materially. Thus, if the
epistle to the Hebrews be supposed written, not by St. Paul,
but by Clement or Barnabas, or any other of their cotempo-
raries, the evidence therein given to the miracles performed
by Christ, and his followers, will not be at all invalidated
thereby.
Thirdly, The great importance of the facts mentioned in the
Scriptures makes it still more improbable, that the several
authors should either have attempted to falsify, or have succeeded
in such an attempt. This is an argument for the.truth of the facts,
which proves the genuineness of the books at the same time, as I
shall shew below in a distinct proposition. However the truth of
the facts is inferred more directly from their importance, if the
genuineness of the Scriptures be previously allowed. The same
thing may be observed of the great number of particular circum
stances of time, place, persons, &c. mentioned in the Scriptures,
and of the harmony of the books with themselves, and with each
other. These are arguments both for the genuineness of the
books, and truth of the facts distinctly considered, and also
arguments for deducing the truth from the genuineness. And
indeed the arguments for the general truth of the history of any
age or nation, where regular records have been kept, are so
interwoven together, and support each other in such a variety of
ways, that it is extremely difficult to keep the ideas of them
distinct, not to anticipate, and not to prove more than the exact
ness of method requires one to prove. Or, in other words, the
inconsistency of the contrary suppositions is so great, that they
can scarce stand long enough to be confuted. Let any one try
this in the history of France or England, Greece or Rome.
Fourthly, If the books of the Old and New Testaments were
written by the persons to whom they were ascribed above, *. e.
if they be genuine, the moral characters of these writers afford
the strongest assurance, that the facts asserted by them are true.
Falsehoods and frauds of a common nature shock the moral sense
of common men, and are rarely met with except in persons of
abandoned characters : How inconsistent then must those of the
most glaring and impious nature be with the highest moral cha
racters ! That such characters are due to the sacred writers,
appears from the writings themselves by an internal evidence;
but there is also strong external evidence in many cases ; and
indeed this point is allowed in general by unbelievers. The
sufferings which several of the writers underwent both in life and
death, in attestation of the facts delivered by them, is a particular
argument in favour of these.
Fifthly, The arguments here alleged for proving the truth of
the scripture history from the genuineness of the books, are as
conclusive in respect of the miraculous facts, as of the common
ones. But besides this we may observe, that if we allow the
genuineness of the books to be a sufficient evidence of the
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 369
common facts mentioned in them, the miraculous facts must be
allowed also, from their close connexion with the common ones.
It is necessary to admit both or neither. It is not to be con
ceived, that Moses should have delivered the Israelites from their
slavery in Egypt, or conducted them through the wilderness for
forty years, at all, in such manner as the common history repre
sents, unless we suppose the miraculous facts intermixed with it
to be true also. In like manner, the fame of Christ's miracles,
the multitudes which followed him, the adherence of his disciples,
the jealousy and hatred of the chief priests, scribes, and pharisees,
with many other facts of a common nature, are impossible to be
accounted for, unless we allow, that he did really work miracles.
And,the same observations hold in general of the other parts of
the scripture history.
Sixthly, There is even a particular argument in favour of the
miraculous part of the scripture history, to be drawn from the
reluctance of mankind to receive miraculous facts. It is true
that this reluctance is greater in some ages and nations than in
others, and probable reasons may be assigned why this reluctance
was, in general, less in ancient times than in the present (which,
however, are presumptions that some real miracles were then
wrought :) but it must always be considerable from the very
frame of the human mind, and would be ' particularly so amongst
the Jews at the time of Christ's appearance, as they had then
been without miracles for four hundred years, or more. Now
this reluctance must make both the writers and readers very
much upon their guard ; and if it be now one of the chief preju
dices against revealed religion, as unbelievers unanimously assert,
it is but reasonable to allow also, that it would be a strong check
upon the publication of a miraculous history at or near the time
when the miracles were said to be performed ; i. e. it will be a
strong confirmation of such an history, if its genuineness be
granted previously.
And, upon the whole, we may certainly conclude, that the
principal facts, both common and miraculous, mentioned in the
Scriptures, must be true, if their genuineness be allowed. The
objection against all miraculous facts will be considered below,
after the other arguments for the truth of the scripture miracles
have been alleged.
The converse of this proposition is also true ; i. e. If the prin
cipal facts mentioned in the Scriptures be true, they must be
genuine writings. And though this converse proposition may,
at first sight, appear to be of little importance for the establish
ment of Christianity, inasmuch as the genuineness of the Scrip
tures is only made use of as a medium whereby to prove the
truth of the facts mentioned in them, yet it will be found other
wise upon farther examination. For there are many evidences
for the truth of particular facts mentioned in the Scriptures,
such, for instance, as those taken from natural history, and the
B B
370 THE TRUTH OF
cotemporary profane history, which no ways presuppose, but, on
the contrary, prove the genuineness of the Scriptures ; and this
genuineness thus proved, may, by the arguments alleged under
this proposition, be extended to infer the truth of the rest of the
facts. Which is not to argue in a circle, and to prove the truth
of the scripture history, from its truth; but to prove the truth
of those facts, which are not attested by natural or civil history,
from those which are, by the medium of the genuineness of the
Scriptures.
Prop. XVIII.—The Genuineness of the Scriptures proves their
Divine Authority.
The truth of this proposition, as it respects the book of Daniel,
seems to have been acknowledged by Porphyry, inasmuch as he
could no ways invalidate the divine authority of this book, implied
by the accomplishment of the prophecies therein delivered, but
by asserting, that they were written after the event, *. e. were
forgeries. But the same thing holds of many of the other books
of the Old and New Testaments, many of them having unques
tionable evidences of the divine foreknowledge, if they be allowed
genuine. I reserve the prophetical evidences to be discussed
hereafter, and therefore shall only suggest the following instances
here, in order to illustrate the proposition ; viz. Moses's prophecy
concerning the captivity of the Israelites, of a state not yet
erected ; Isaiah's concerning Cyrus ; Jeremiah's concerning the
duration of the Babylonish captivity ; Christ's concerning the
destruction of Jerusalem, and the captivity that was to follow ;
St. John's concerning the great corruption of the christian church ;
and Daniel's concerning the fourth empire in its declension ;
which last was extant in Porphyry's time at least, i. e. before the
events which it so fitly represents.
The same thing follows from the sublimity and excellence of
the doctrines contained in the Scriptures. These no ways suit
the supposed authors, i. e. the ages when they lived, their educa
tions or occupations ; and therefore, if they were the real authors,
there is a necessity of admitting the divine assistance.
The converse of this proposition, viz. that the divine authority
of the Scriptures infers their genuineness, will, I suppose, be
readily acknowledged by all. And it may be used for the same
purposes as the converse of the last. For there are several evi
dences for the divine authority of the Scriptures, which are direct
and immediate, and prior to the consideration both of their
genuineness, and of the truth of the facts contained in them.
Of this kind is the character of Christ, as it may be collected
from his discourses and actions related in the gospels. The great
and manifest superiority of this to all other characters real and
fictitious, proves, at once, his divine mission, exclusively of all
other considerations. Suppose now the genuineness of St. Luke's
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 371
gospel to be deduced in this way, the genuineness of the Acts of
the Apostles may be deduced from it, and of St. Paul's Epistles
from the Acts, by the usual critical methods. And when the
genuineness of the Acts of the Apostles, and St. Paul's Epistles,
is thus deduced, the truth of the facts mentioned in them will
follow from it by the last proposition ; and their divine authority
by this.
Prop. XIX.—The Truth of the principal Facts contained in the
' Scriptures proves their Divine Authority.
This proposition may be proved two ways; First, exclusively
of the evidences of natural religion, such as those delivered in the
last chapter ; and, Secondly, from the previous establishment of
the great truths of natural religion. And, First,
It is evident, that the great power, knowledge and benevolence,
which appeared in Christ, the prophets, and apostles, according
to the Scripture accounts, do, as it were, command assent and
submission from all those who receive these accounts as historical
truths; and that, though they are not able to deduce, or have
not, in fact, deduced the evidences of natural religion ; nay,
though they should have many doubts about them. The frame
of the human mind is such, that the scripture history, allowed to
be true, must convince us, that Christ, the prophets, and apostles,
were endued with a power greater than human, and acted by the
authority of a being of the highest wisdom and goodness.
Secondly, If natural religion be previously established, the truth
of the principal facts of the Scriptures proves their divine autho
rity in an easier and more convincing manner.
For, First, The power shewn in the miracles wrought by Christ,
the prophets, and apostles, the knowledge in their prophecies,
and their good moral characters, shews them to be, in an eminent
manner, the children, servants, and messengers, of Him, who is
now previously acknowledged to be infinite in power, knowledge,
and goodness.
Secondly, Christ, the prophets, and apostles, make an express
claim to a divine mission. Now, it cannot be reconciled to God's
moral attributes of justice, veracity, mercy, &c. that he should
permit these persons to make such a claim falsely, and then endue
them, or suffer them to be endued, with such credentials, as must
support such a false claim. Their claim is not therefore a false
one, if we admit their credentials ; or, in other words, the truth
of the principal facts mentioned in the Scriptures proves the
divine mission of Christ, the prophets, and apostles, i. e. the
divine authority of the Scriptures.
The same observations may be made upon the converse of this
proposition, as upon those of the two last.
And thus the genuineness of the Scriptures, the truth of the
principal facts contained in them, and their divine authority,
b b 2
372 THE TRUTH OF
appear to be so connected with each other, that any one being
established upon independent principles, the other two may be
inferred from it. The first and second of these points are, indeed,
more evidently subservient to the last, than the last is to them ;
for, if the last be allowed, it is at once all that the believer con
tends for ; whereas some persons appear to admit, or not to reject,
the first, or even the second, and yet are ranked under the title
of unbelievers. It is necessary to shew to such persons, that the
first and second infer each other mutually, and both of them the
last ; and it may be of some use to shew, that the last infers
the two first in such a way as to cast some light upon itself,
without arguing in a circle ; the divine authority of one book
being made to infer the genuineness of another, or the facts con
tained in it, i. e. its divine authority also.
Here it may not be amiss to say something concerning the
divine inspiration of the Scriptures. Now there are three dif
ferent suppositions, which may be made concerning this point.
The first and lowest is, That all the passages delivered by
Moses and the prophets, as coming from God, and by the evan
gelists, as the words of Christ, also the Revelation given to
St. John in a divine vision, with all parallel portions of Scripture,
must be considered as divinely inspired, and as having immediate
divine authority ; else we cannot allow even common authority
to these books ; but that the common history, the reasonings of
the apostles from the Old Testament, and perhaps some of their
opinions, may be considered as coming merely from themselves, and
therefore, though highly to be regarded, are not of unquestionable
authority. The arguments for this hypothesis may be, that since the
Scriptures have suffered by transcribers, like other books, a per
fect exactness in the original, as to minute particulars (in which
alone it has suffered, or could suffer, from transcribers), is need
less; that Moses and the prophets, the evangelists and apostles,
had natural talents for writing history, applying the Scriptures,
reasoning, and delivering their opinions ; and that God works by
natural means, where there are such; that the apostles were
ignorant of the true extent of Christ's kingdom for a considerable
time after his resurrection, and perhaps mistaken about his second
coming ; that God might intend that nothing in this world should
be perfect, our blessed Lord excepted ; that some historical facts
seem difficult to be reconciled to one another, and some applica
tions of passages from the Old Testament by the writers of the
New, with their reasonings thereon, inconclusive and unsatis
factory ; that the writers themselves no where lay claim to in
fallibility, when speaking from themselves; and that Hennas,
Clemens Romanus, and Barnabas, who were apostolical persons,
seem evidently to have reasoned in an inconclusive manner.
The second hypothesis is, that historical incidents of small
moment, with matters of a nature foreign to religion, may indeed
not have divine authority ; but that all the rest of the Scriptures,
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 373
the reasonings, the application of the prophecies, and even the
doctrines of inferior note, must be inspired ; else what can be
meant by the gifts of the Spirit, particularly that of prophecy,
i. e. of instructing others ? How can Christ's promise of the
Comforter, who should lead his disciples into all truth, be ful
filled? Will not the very essentials of religion, the divine mission
of Christ, Providence, and a future state, be weakened by thus
supposing the sacred writers to be mistaken in religious points ?
And though the history and the reasonings of the Scriptures
have the marks of being written in the same manner as other
books, *. e. may seem not to be inspired, yet a secret influence
might conduct the writers in every thing of moment, even when
they did not perceive it, or reflect upon it themselves ; it being
evident from obvious reasonings, as well as from the foregoing
theory, that the natural workings of the mind are not to be
distinguished from those, which a Being that has a sufficient
power over our intellectual frame, might excite in us.
The third and last hypothesis is, That the whole Scriptures
are inspired, even the most minute historical passages, the saluta
tions, incidental mention of common affairs, &c. The arguments
in favour of this hypothesis are, that many parts of Scripture
appear to have double, or perhaps manifold, senses; that not one
jot or tittle of the law (i. e. of the whole Scriptures of both the
Old and New Testaments, in an enlarged way of interpretation,
which, however, seems justifiable by parallel instances) shall
perish ; that the Bible, *. e. the book of books, as we now have
it, appears to have been remarkably distinguished by Providence
from all other writings, even of good Jews and Christians, and to
admit of a vindication in respect of small difficulties, and small
seeming inconsistencies, as well as of great ones, every day more
and more as we advance in knowledge; and that effects of the
same kind with divine inspiration, viz. the working of miracles,
and the gift of prophecy, subsisted during the times of the authors
of the books of the Old and New Testaments, and even in all, or
nearly all, of these writers ; also, that they extended, in some
cases, to very minute things.
I will not presume to determine which of these three suppo
sitions approaches nearest to the truth. The following propo
sitions will, I hope, establish the first of them at least, and prove
the genuineness of the Scriptures, the truth of the facts contained
in them, and their divine authority, to such a degree, as that we
need not fear to make them the rule of our lives, and the ground
of our future expectations ; which is all that is absolutely neces
sary for the proof of the Christian religion, and the satisfaction
and comfort of religious persons. I even believe that the fol
lowing evidences favour the second hypothesis strongly, and
exclude all errors and imperfections of note ; nay, I am inclined
to believe, that serious, inquisitive men can scarce rest there,
but will be led, by the successive clearing of difficulties, and
374 THE TRUTH OF
unfolding of the most wonderful truths, to believe the whole
Scriptures to be inspired, and to abound with numberless uses
and applications, of which we yet know nothing. Let future
ages determine. The evidently miraculous nature of one part,
viz. the prophetical, disposes the mind to believe the whole to be
far above human invention, or even penetration, till such time as
our understandings shall be farther opened by the events which
are to precede the second coming of Christ. In the mean while,
let critics and learned men of all kinds have full liberty to
examine the sacred books ; and let us be sparing in our censures
of each other. Let us judge nothing before the time, until the
Lord come ; and then shall every man have praise of God.
Sobriety of mind, humility, and piety, are requisite in the pursuit
of knowledge of every kind, and much more in that of sacred. I
have here endeavoured to be impartial to each hypothesis, and
just to hint what I apprehend each party would or might say in
defence of their own. However, they are all brethren, and ought
not to fall out by the way.
Prop. XX.—The Manner in which the Books of the Old and
New Testaments have been handed down from Age to Age,
proves both their Genuineness, and the Truth of the principal
Facts contained in them.
For, First, It resembles the manner in which all other genuine
books and true histories have been conveyed down to posterity.
As the writings of the Greek and Roman poets, orators, philo
sophers, and historians, were esteemed by these nations to be
transmitted to them by their forefathers in a continued suc
cession, from the times when the respective authors lived, so have
the books of the Old Testament by the Jewish nation, and those
of the New by the Christians ; and it is an additional evidence in
the last case, that the primitive Christians were not a distinct
nation, but a great multitude of people dispersed through all the
nations of the Roman empire, and even extending itself beyond
the bounds of that empire. As the Greeks and Romans always
believed the principal facts of their historical books, so the Jews
and Christians did more, and never seem to have doubted of the
truth of any part of theirs. In short, whatever can be said of
the traditional authority due to the Greek and Roman writers,
something analogous to this, and, for the most part, of greater
weight, may be urged for the Jewish and Christian. Now, I
suppose that all sober-minded men admit the books usually
ascribed to the Greek and Roman historians, philosophers, &c. to
be genuine, and the principal facts related or alluded to in them
to be true, and that one chief evidence for this is the general
traditionary one here recited. They ought, therefore, to pay
the same regard to the books of -the Old and New Testaments,
since there are the same or greater reasons for it.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 375
Secondly, If we reconsider the circumstances recited in the last
paragraph, it Will appear, that these traditionary evidences are
sufficient ones ; and we shall have a real argument, as well as one
ad hominem, for receiving books so handed down to us. For it
is not to be conceived, that whole nations should either be
imposed upon themselves, or concur to deceive others, by for
geries of books or facts. These books and facts must, therefore,
in general, be genuine and true; and it is a strong additional
evidence of this, that all nations must be jealous of forgeries for
the same reasons that we are.
Here it may be objected, that as we reject the prodigies
related by the Greek and Roman writers, though we admit the
common history, so we ought also to reject the scripture miracles.
To this I answer,
First, That the scripture history is supported by far stronger
evidences than the Greek or Roman, as will appear in the fol
lowing propositions.
Secondly, That many of the scripture miracles are related by
eye-witnesses, and were of a public nature, of long duration,
attended by great and lasting effects, inseparably connected with
the common history, and evidently suitable to our notions of a
wise and good Providence, which cannot be said of those related
by the pagan writers.
Thirdly, That the scripture miracles not attended by these
cogent circumstances are supported by their connexion with such
as are; and that after we have admitted these, there remains
no longer any presumption against those from their miraculous
nature.
Fourthly, If there be any small number found amongst the
pagan miracles, attested by such like evidences as the principal
ones for the scripture miracles, I do not see how they can be
rejected; but it will not follow that the scripture miracles are
false, because some of the pagan ones are true.
Prop. XXI.—The great Importance of the Histories, Precepts,
Promises, Threatenings, and Prophecies contained in the Scrip
tures, are Evidences both of their Genuineness, and of the
Truth of the principal Facts mentioned in them.
This is one of the instances in which the evidences for the
Scriptures are superior, beyond comparison, to those for any
other ancient books. Let us take a short review of this im
portance in its several particulars.
The history of the creation, fall, deluge, longevity of the
patriarchs, dispersion of mankind, calling of Abraham, descent
of Jacob with his family into Egypt, and the precepts of abstain
ing from blood, and of circumcision, were of so much concern,
either to mankind in general, or to the Israelites in particular,
and some of them of so extraordinary a nature, as that it could
376 THE TRUTH OF
not be an indifferent matter to the people amongst whom the
account given of them in Genesis was first published, whether
they received them or not. Suppose this account to be first
published amongst the Israelites by Moses, and also to be then
confirmed by clear, universal, uninterrupted tradition (which is
possible and probable, according to the history itself), and it will
be easy to conceive, upon this true supposition, how this account
should be handed down from age to age amongst the Jews, and
received by them as indubitable. Suppose this account to be
false, i. e. suppose that there were no such evidences and vestiges
of these histories and precepts, and it will be difficult to conceive
how this could have happened, let the time of publication be as
it will. If early, the people would reject the account at once for
want of a clear tradition, which the account itself would give
them reason to expect. If late, it would be natural to inquire
how the author came to be informed of things never known
before to others.
If it be said, that he delivered them as communicated to him
by revelation (which yet cannot well be said on account of the
many references in Genesis to the remaining vestiges of the
things related), these surprising, interesting particulars would at
least be an embarrassment upon his fictitious credentials, and
engage his cotemporaries to look narrowly into them.
If it be said, that there were many cosmogonies and theogonies
current amongst the pagans, which yet are evidently fictions ; I
answer, that these were, in general, regarded only as amusing
fictions ; however, that they had some truths in them, either
expressed in plain words, or concealed in figures ; and that their
agreement with the book of Genesis, as far as they are consistent
with one another, or have any appearance of- truth, is a remark
able evidence in favour of this book. It is endless to make all
the possible suppositions and objections of this kind ; but it
appears to me, that the more are made, the more will the truth
and genuineness of the Scriptures be established thereby.
It ought to be added, in relation to the precepts of abstaining
from blood, and circumcision, before-mentioned, that if the first
was common to mankind, or was known to have been so, the last
peculiar to the descendants of Abraham, at the time of the pub
lication of the book of Genesis, this confirms it ; if otherwise,
would contribute to make it rejected. If neither the practices
themselves, nor any vestiges of them subsisted at all, the book
must be rejected. The difficulty of deducing these practices
from the principles of human nature ought to be considered
here ; as it tends to prove their divine original, agreeably to the
accounts given of them in Genesis.
Let us next come to the law of Moses. This was extremely
burthensome, expensive, severe, particularly upon the crime of
idolatry, to which all mankind were then extravagantly prone,
and absurd, according to the common judgment of mankind, in.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 377
the instances of forbidding to provide themselves with horses for
war, and commanding all the males of the whole nation to appear
at Jerusalem three times in a year. At the same time, it claims
a divine authority every where, and appeals to facts of the most
notorious kinds, and to customs and ceremonies of the most
peculiar nature, as the memorials of these facts. We cannot
conceive, then, that any nation, with such motives to reject, and
such opportunities of detecting the forgery of the books of
Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, should yet
receive them, and submit to this heavy yoke. That they should
often throw it off in part, and for a time, and rebel against the
divine authority of their law, though sufficiently evidenced, is
easily to be accounted for from what we see and feel in ourselves
and others every day; but that they should ever return and
repent, ever submit to it, unless it had divine authority, is utterly
incredible. It was not a matter of such small importance, as
that they could content themselves with a superficial examination,
with a less examination than would be sufficient to detect so
notorious a forgery ; and this holds, at whatever time we suppose
these books to be published.
That the Jews did thus submit to the law of Moses, is evident
from the books of the Old and New Testaments, if we allow
them the least truth and genuineness, or even from profane
writers ; nay, I may say, from the present observance of it by
the Jews scattered through all the kingdoms of the world.
If it be said, that other nations have ascribed divine authority
to their lawgivers, and submitted to very severe laws ; I answer,
first, that the pretences of lawgivers amongst the pagans to
inspiration, and the submission of the people to them, may be
accounted for in the degree in which they are found, from the then
circumstances of things, without having recourse to real inspi
ration ; and particularly, that if we admit the patriarchal reve
lations related and intimated by Moses, and his own divine legation,
it will appear, that the heathen lawgivers copied after these;
which is a strong argument for admitting them. Secondly, that
there is no instance amongst the pagans, of a body of laws being
produced at once, and remaining without addition afterwards;
but that they were compiled by degrees, according to the
exigencies of the state, the prevalence of a particular faction, or
the authority of some particular persons, who were all styled
lawgivers, as Draco and Solon at Athens ; that they were made,
in general, not to curb, but humour, the genius of the people;
and were afterwards repealed and altered from the same causes :
whereas the body politic of the Israelites took upon itself a
complete form at once, and has preserved this form in great
measure to the present time, and that under the highest external
disadvantages ; which is an instance quite without parallel, and
shews the great opinion which they had of their law, i. e its
great importance to them.
378 THE TRUTH OF
If it be said, that the laws of the Israelites were not perhaps
imposed at once, but grew up by degrees, as in other nations,
this will make the difficulty of receiving the books of Exodus,
Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, in which the contrary,
with all the particular circumstances, is asserted, greater than
ever. In short, of all the fictions or forgeries that can happen
amongst any people, the most improbable is that of their body
of civil laws ; and it seems to be utterly impossible in the case of
the law of Moses.
The next part of the Scriptures, whose importance we are to
consider, is the history contained in the iooks of Joshua, Judges,
Ruth, Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, and
extending from the death of Moses to the re-establishment of the
Jews after the Babylonish captivity, by Ezra and Nehemiah.
Now, in this history are the following important facts, most of
which must be supposed to leave such vestiges of themselves,
either external visible ones, or internal in the minds and memo
ries of the people, as would verify them, if true ; make them be
rejected, if false. The conquest of the land of Canaan, the
division of it, and the appointment of cities for the priests and
Levites by Joshua ; the frequent slaveries of the Israelites to the
neighbouring kings, and their deliverance by the Judges ; the
erection of a kingdom by Samuel ; the translation of this kingdom
from Saul's family to David, with his conquests; the glory of
'Solomon's kingdom ; the building of the temple ; the division of
the kingdom ; the idolatrous worship set up at Dan and Bethel ;
the captivity of the Israelites by the kings of Assyria ; the capti
vity of the Jews by Nebuchadnezzar ; the destruction of their
temple; their return under Cyrus, rebuilding the temple under
Darius Hystaspes, and re-establishment under Artaxerxes Longi-
manus, by Ezra and Nehemiah ; these events are some of them
the most glorious, some of them the most shameful, that can well
happen to any people. How can we reconcile forgeries of such
opposite kinds, and especially as they are interwoven together ?
But, indeed, the facts are of such consequence, notoriety, and
permanency, in their effects, that neither could any particular
persons amongst the Israelites first project the design of feigning
them, nor their own people concur with such a design, nor the
neighbouring nations permit the fiction to pass. Nothing could
make a jealous multitude amongst the Israelites, or neighbouring
nations acquiesce, but the invincible evidence of the facts here
alleged. And the same observations hold of numberless other
facts of lesser note, which it would be tedious to recount ; and of
miraculous facts as much, or rather more than others. Besides
which, it is to be noted, that all these have such various necessary
connexions with each other, that they cannot be separated, as has
been already remarked.
And all this will, I presume, be readily acknowledged, upon
supposition that the several books were published in or near the
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 379
times of the facts therein recorded. But, say the objectors, this
will not hold in so strong a manner, if the books be published
after these times. Let us take an extreme case, then, and
suppose all these historical books forged by Ezra. But this is
evidently impossible. Things of so important and notorious a
kind, so glorious and so shameful to the people, for whose sake
they were forged, would have been rejected with the utmost
indignation, unless there were the strongest and most genuine
footsteps of these things already amongst the people. They were
therefore in part true. But many additions were made by Ezra,
say the objectors. I answer, if these were of importance, the
difficulty returns. If not, then all the important facts are true.
Besides, what motive could any one have for making additions of
no importance ? Again, if there were any ancient writings
extant, Ezra must either copy after them, which destroys the
would betray him. If there were no such ancient writings, the
people could not but inquire in matters of importance, for what
reasons Ezra was so particular in things of which there was
neither any memory, nor account in writing. If it be said, that
the people did not regard what Ezra had thus forged, but let it
pass uncontradicted; this is again to make the things of small or
no importance. Besides, why should Ezra write, if no one
would read or regard? Farther, Ezra must, like all other men,
have friends, enemies, and rivals ; and some or all of these would
have been a check upon him, and a security against him in
matters of importance.
If, instead of supposing Ezra to have forged all these books at
once, we supposed them forged successively, one, two, or three
centuries after the facts related ; we shall, from this intermediate
supposition, have (besides the difficulty of accounting ;for such
a regular succession of impostures in matters so important) a
mixture of the difficulties recited in the two preceding para
graphs, the sum total of which will be the same, or nearly the
same, as in either of those cases. And upon the whole, the
forgery of the annals of the Israelites appears to be impossible,
as well as that of the body of their civil laws.
If it be said, that the histories and annals of other nations
have many fictions and falsehoods in them ; I answer, that the
superior importance of the events which happened to the Jewish
nation, and the miraculous nature of many of them, occasioned
their being recorded at the then present times, in the way of simple
narration, the command of God also concurring, as it seems ; and
that thus all addition, variety, and embellishment, was prevented :
whereas the histories of the originals of other nations were not
committed to writing till long after the events, after they had
been corrupted and obscured by numberless fables and fictions,
as is well known. There are many other circumstances peculiar
to the Jewish history, which establish its truth even in the
present oppose them, which
,380 THE TRUTH OF
minutest things, as I shall shew in the following propositions;
and I hope the reader will see, in the progress of the argument,
that the same method of reasoning which proves the Jewish
history to be rigorously exact, proves also that the histories of
other nations may. be expected to be partly true, and partly
false, as they are agreed to be by all learned and sober-minded
men.
I pass over the books of Esther, Job, the Psalms, Proverbs,
Ecclesiastes, and Canticles, as not having much relation to this
proposition ; and proceed to the consideration of the Prophecies.
These contain the most important precepts, promises, threaten-
ings, and predictions, i. e. prophecies peculiarly so called, besides
the indirect and incidental mention of the great events recorded
in the historical books. And as they are full of the severest
reproofs and denunciations against all ranks, king, governors, and
great men subordinate to him, priests, prophets, and people,
one cannot expect, that they should be favourably received by
any, but those of the best moral characters ; and these must be
the first to detect and expose a forgery, if there was any. So
that the prophecies, if they were forgeries, could not be able to
stand so rigorous an examination as the importance of the case
would prompt all ranks to. And here all the arguments before
used to shew, that the historical books could neither be forged at
the time of the facts, nor so late as Ezra's time, nor in any inter
mediate one, are applicable with the same, or even greater force.
Besides which, it is to be observed of the predictions in parti
cular, that, if they were published before the events, they could
not be forgeries ; if afterwards, there would not be wanting
amongst the Jews many persons of the same disposition with
Porphyry, and the present objectors to the genuineness of the
prophecies, and the truth of the facts related or implied in them,
who upon that supposition would have met with success, as
Porphyry, and the ancient objectors would have done long ago,
had their objections been solid. Infidelity is the natural and
necessary product of human wickedness and weakness ; we see it,
in all other things, as well as in religion, whensoever the interests
and passions of men are opposite to truth ; and the present ob
jectors to the truth of revealed religion may be assured, that the
ancient ones, the murmuring Israelites in the wilderness, the
rebellious Jews before Christ, and both Jews and Gentiles, since
Christ, have done justice to their cause.
We come, in the last place, to consider the importance of the
books of the New Testament. Whoever then received these in
ancient times as genuine and true, must not only forsake all
sinful pleasures, but expose himself to various hardships and
dangers, and even to death itself. They had indeed a future
glory promised to them, with which the sufferings of the present
time were not worthy to be compared. But then this glory,
being future, must be supported with the most incontestable
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 381
evidences ; else it could have no power against the opposite
motives ; and both together must so rouse the mind, as to make
men exert themselves to the uttermost, till they had received
full satisfaction. Besides which it is to be observed, that even
joy, and the greatness of an expectation, incline men to dis
believe, and to examine with a scrupulous exactness, as well as
fear and dislike.
As to those who did not receive the doctrines of the New
Testament, and the facts there related and implied, they would
have sufficient motives to detect the forgery or falsehood, had
there been any such. They were all condemned for their
unbelief; many for their gross vices; the Jew for his darling
partiality to his own nation, and ceremonial law : and the Gentile
for his idolatry and polytheism; and the most dreadful punish
ments threatened to all in a future state. Now these were
important charges, and alarming considerations, which, if they
did not put men upon a fair examination, would, at least, make
them desirous to find fault, to detect, and expose ; and if they
had discovered any fraud, to publish it with the utmost triumph.
The books of the New Testament could not but be of so much
importance to the unbelievers of the primitive times, as to excite
them to vigilance and earnestness, in endeavouring to discredit
and destroy them. All which is abundantly confirmed by the
history of those times. And indeed cases of the same kind,
though not of the same degree, occur now to daily observation,
which the reader will do well to call to mind, Thus it comes to
pass, on one hand, that frauds and impostures are crushed in
the birth : and, on the other, that wicked men labour against
the truth in the most unreasonable and inconsistent ways, and
are led on from one degree of obstinacy, prevarication, and infa
tuation, to another, without limits.
It may be added here, That the persons reproved and con
demned in the gospels, in the Acts of the Apostles, by St. Paul
in his epistles, by St. Peter in his second epistle, by St. John
and St. Jude in their epistles, and by St. John in the Revela
tion, viz. the five churches, and the Nicolaitanes, could not but
endeavour to vindicate themselves. The books were all of a
public nature, and these reproofs particularly so, as being in
tended to guard others.
I have now gone through the several parts of the Scripture,
and shewn briefly how the importance of each would be a
security against forgery and fiction in that part, I will now add
some general evidences to the same purpose.
First, then, It is certain, that both Jews and Christians have
undergone the severest persecutions and sufferings on account of
their sacred books, and yet never could be prevailed with to
deliver them up : which shews that they thought them of the
highest importance, most genuine and true.
Secondly, The preservation of the law of Moses, which is
382 THE TRUTH OF
probably the first book that was ever written in any language,
while so many others more modern have been lost, shews the
great regard paid to it. The same holds in a less degree of
most of the other books of the Old Testament, since most of
them are ancienter than the oldest Greek historians. And as
the records of all the neighbouring nations are lost; we must
suppose those of the Jews to have been preserved, from their
importance, or some other such cause, as may be an equal
evidence of their genuineness and truth.
Thirdly, The great importance of all the sacred books appears
from the many early translations and paraphrases of them. The
same translations and paraphrases must be an effectual means of
securing their integrity and purity, if we could suppose any
design to corrupt them.
Fourthly, The hesitation and difficulty with which a few
books of the New Testament were received into the canon, shew
the great care and concern of the primitive Christians, about
the canon, i. e. the high importance of the books received into
it ; and are therefore a strong evidence, first, for the genuineness
and truth of the books which were received without hesitation ;
and then for these others, since they were received universally
at last.
Fifthly, The great religious hatred and animosity which sub
sisted between the Jews and Samaritans, and between several of
the ancient sects amongst the Christians, shew of what im
portance they all thought their sacred books; and would make
them watch over one another with a jealous eye.
Prop. XXII.—The Language, Style, and Manner of Writing,
used in the Books of the Old and New Testaments, are Argu
ments of their Genuineness.
Here I observe, First, That the Hebrew language, in which
the Old Testament was written, being the language of an
ancient people, and one that had little intercourse with their
neighbours, and whose neighbours also spake a language that
had great affinity with their own, would not change so fast as
modern languages have done, since nations have been variously
mixed with one another, and trade, arts, and sciences, greatly
extended. Yet some changes there must be, in passing from
the time of Moses to that of Malachi. Now, I apprehend, that
the biblical Hebrew corresponds to this criterion with so much
exactness, that a considerable argument may be deduced thence
in favour of the genuineness of the books of the Old Testament.
Secondly, The books of the Old Testament have too con
siderable a diversity of style to be the work either of one Jew,
(for a Jew he must be on account of the language,) or of any set
of cotemporary Jews. If therefore they be all forgeries, there
must be a succession of impostors in different ages, who have
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 383
concurred to impose upon posterity, which is inconceivable. To
suppose part forged, and part genuine, is very harsh; neither
would this supposition, if admitted, be satisfactory.
Thirdly, The Hebrew language ceased to be spoken as a living
language, soon after the time of the Babylonish captivity : but it
would be difficult or impossible to forge any thing in it, after it
was become a dead language. For there was no grammar made
for the Hebrew till many ages after; and, as it is difficult to
write in a dead language with exactness, even by the help of a
grammar, so it seems impossible without it. All the books of
the Old Testament must therefore be, nearly, as ancient as the
Babylonish captivity ; and, since they could not all be written
in the same age, some must be considerably more ancient ;
which would bring us again to a succession of conspiring im
postors.
Fourthly, This last remark may perhaps afford a new argu
ment for the genuineness of the book of Daniel, if any were
wanting. But indeed the Septuagint translation shews both
this, and all the other books of ttye Old Testament, to have been
considered as ancient books, soon after the times of Antiochus
Epiphanes, at least.
Fifthly, There is a simplicity of style, and an unaffected
manner of writing, in all the books of the Old Testament; which
is a very strong evidence of their genuineness, even exclusively
of the suitableness of this circumstance to the time of the sup
posed authors.
Sixthly, "The style of the New Testament is also simple and
unaffected, and perfectly suited to the time, places, and persons.
Let it be observed farther, that the use of words and phrases is
such, also the ideas, and method of reasoning, as that the books
of the New Testament could be written by none but persons
originally Jews; which would bring the inquiry into a little
narrower compass, if there was any occasion for this.
One may also observe, that the narrations and precepts of
both Old and New Testament are delivered without hesitation ;
the writers teach as having authority; which circumstance is
peculiar to those, who have both a clear knowledge of what they
deliver, and a perfect integrity of heart.
Prop. XXIII.—The very great Number of particular Circum
stances of Time, Place, Persons, fyc. mentioned in the Scrip
tures, are Arguments both of their Genuineness and Truth.
That the reader may understand what I mean by these parti
cular circumstances, I will recite some of the principal heads,
under which they may be classed.
There are then mentioned in the book of Genesis, the rivers of
Paradise, the generations of the antediluvian patriarchs, the
deluge with its circumstances, the place where the ark rested, the
384 THE TRUTH OF
building of the tower of Babel, the confusion of tongues, the
dispersion of mankind, or the division of the earth amongst the
posterity of Shem, Ham, and Japheth; the generations of the
postdiluvian patriarchs, with the gradual shortening of human
life after the flood; the sojournings of Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob, with many particulars of the state of Canaan, and the
neighbouring countries, in their times ; the destruction of Sodom
and Gomorrah ; the state of the land of Edom, both before and
after Esau's time ; and the descent of Jacob into Egypt, with the
state of Egypt before Moses's time.
In the book of Exodus are the plagues of Egypt ; the insti
tution of the passover; the passage through the Red Sea, with
the destruction of Pharaoh and his host there; the miracle of
manna; the victory over the Amalekites; the solemn delivery of
the law from Mount Sinai ; many particular laws, both moral and
ceremonial; the worship of the golden calf, and a very minute
description of the tabernacle, priests' garments, ark, &c.
In Leviticus, we have a collection of ceremonial laws, with
all their particularities, and an account of the deaths of Nadab
and Abihu.
The book of Numbers contains the first and second number-
ings of the several tribes, with their genealogies, the peculiar
offices of the three several families of the Levites, many cere
monial laws, the journeyings and encampments of the people in
the wilderness during forty years, with the relation of some
remarkable events which happened in this period ; as, the search
ing of the land, the rebellion of Korah, the victories over Arad,
Sihon, and Og, with the division of the kingdoms of the two last
among the Gadites, Reubenites, and Manassites ; the history of
Balak and Balaam, and the victory over the Midianites, all
described with the several particularities of time, place, and
persons.
The book of Deuteronomy contains a recapitulation of many
things contained in the three last books, with a second delivery
of the law, chiefly the moral one, by Moses, upon the borders of
Canaan, just before his death, with an account of this.
In the book of Joshua we have the passage over Jordan, the
conquest of the land of Canaan, in detail, and the division of it
among the tribes, including a minute geographical description.
The book of Judges recites a great variety of public trans
actions, with the private origin of some. In all, the names of
times, places, and persons, both among the Israelites, and the
neighbouring nations, are noted with particularity and simplicity.
In the book of Ruth is a very particular account of the
genealogy of David, with several incidental circumstances.
The books of Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah,
contain the transactions of the kings before the captivity, and
governors afterwards, all delivered in the same circumstantial
manner. And here the particular account of the regulations,
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 385
sacred and civil, established by David, and of the building of the
temple by' Solomon, the genealogies given in the beginning of
the first book of Chronicles, and the lists of the persons who
returned, sealed, &c. after the captivity, in the books of Ezra
and Nehemiah, deserve especial notice, in the light in which we
are now considering things.
The book of Esther contains a like account of a very remark
able event, with the institution of a festival in memory of it.
The book of Psalms mentions many historical facts in an
incidental way ; and this, with the books of Job, Proverbs,
Ecclesiastes, and Canticles, allude to the manners and customs of
ancient times in various ways.
In the Prophecies there are some historical relations ; and in
the other parts, the indirect mention of facts, times, places, and
persons, is interwoven with the predictions in the most copious
and circumstantial manner.
If we come to the New Testament, the same observations
present themselves at first view. We have the names of friends
and enemies, Jews, Greeks, and Romans, obscure and illustrious,
the times, places, and circumstances of facts, specified directly,
and alluded to indirectly, with various references to the customs
and manners of those times.
Now here I observe, First, That, in fact, we do not ever find
that forged or false accounts of things superabound thus in
particularities. There is always some truth where there are
considerable particularities related, and they always seem to bear
some proportion to one another. Thus there is a great want of
the particulars of time, place, and persons, in Manetho's account
of the Egyptian dynasties, Ctesias's of the Assyrian kings, and
those which the technical chronologers have given of the ancient
kingdoms of Greece; and agreeably thereto, these accounts
have much fiction and falsehood, with some truth: whereas
Thucydides' history of the Peloponnesian war, and Caesar's of
the war in Gaul, in both which the particulars of time, place,
and persons, are mentioned, are universally esteemed true to a
great degree of exactness.
Secondly, A forger, or a relater of falsehoods, would be careful
not to mention so great a number of particulars, since this would
be to put into his reader's hands criterions whereby to detect
him. Thus we may see one reason of the fact mentioned in the
last paragraph, and which, in confirming that fact, confirms the
proposition here to be proved.
Thirdly, A forger, or a relater of falsehoods, could scarce
furnish out such lists of particulars. It is easy to conceive how
faithful records kept from time to time, by persons concerned in
the transactions, should contain such lists; nay, it is natural to
expect them in this case, from that local memory which takes
strong possession of the fancy in those who have been present at
transactions ; but it would be a work of the highest invention,
c c
386 THE TRUTH OF
and greatest stretch of genius, to raise from nothing such num
berless particularities, as are almost everywhere to be met with
in the Scriptures. The account given of memory, imagination,
and invention, in the foregoing part of these observations, sets
this matter in a strong light.
There is a circumstance relating to the gospels, which deserves
particular notice in this place. St. Matthew and St. John were
apostles ; and, therefore, since they accompanied Christ, must
have this local memory of his journeyings and miracles. St. Mark
was a Jew of Judaea, and a friend of St. Peter's; and, therefore,
may either have had this local memory himself, or have written
chiefly from St. Peter, who had. But St. Luke, being a pro
selyte of Antioch, not converted, perhaps, till several years after
Christ's resurrection, and receiving his accounts from different
eye-witnesses, as he says himself, could have no regard to that
order of time, which a local memory would suggest. Let us see
how the gospels answer to these positions. St. Matthew's then
appears to be in exact order of time, and to be a regulator to
St. Mark's and St. Luke's, shewing St. Mark's to be nearly so,
but St. Luke's to have little or no regard to the order of time, in
his account of Christ's ministry. St. John's Gospel is, like
St. Matthew's, in order of time; but as he wrote after all the
rest, and with a view only of recording some remarkable parti
culars, such as Christ's actions before he left Judaaa to go to
preach in Galilee, his disputes with the Jews of Jerusalem, and
his discourses to the apostles at his last supper, there was less
opportunity for his local memory to shew itself. However, his
recording what past before Christ's going into Galilee might be
in part from this cause, 'as St. Matthew's omission of it was
probably from his want of local memory. For it appears that
St. Matthew resided in Galilee ; and that he was not converted
till some time after Christ's coming thither to preach. Now
this suitableness of the four gospels to their reputed authors, in
a circumstance of so subtle and recluse a nature, is quite incon
sistent with the supposition of fiction or forgery. This remark is
chiefly taken from Sir Isaac Newton's chapter concerning the
times of the birth and passion of Christ, in his Comment on
Daniel.
Fourthly, If we could suppose the persons who forged the
books of the Old and New Testaments, to have furnished their
readers with the great variety of particulars above-mentioned,
notwithstanding .the two reasons here alleged against it, we
cannot, however, conceive, but that the persons of those times
when the books were published, must, by the help of these
criterions, have detected and exposed the forgeries or false
hoods. For these criterions are so attested by allowed facts,
as at this time, and in this remote corner of the world, to
establish the truth and genuineness of the Scriptures, as may
appear even from this chapter, and much more from the writings
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 387
of commentators, sacred critics, and such other learned men, as
have given the historical evidences for revealed religion in detail ;
and, by parity of reason, would suffice even now to detect the
fraud, were there any : whence we may conclude, d fortiori, that
they must have enabled the persons who were upon the spot,
when the books were published, to do this ; and the importance
of many of these particulars considered under Prop. XXI. would
furnish them with abundant motives for this purpose. And upon
the whole I infer, that the very great number of particulars
of time, place, persons, &c. mentioned in the Scriptures, is a
proof of their genuineness and truth, even previously to the
consideration of the agreement of these particulars with history,
natural and civil, and with one another, of which I now proceed
to treat.
Prop. XXIV.—The Agreement of the Scriptures with History,
natural and civil, is a Proof of their Genuineness and Truth.
9
Thus the history of the fall agrees in an eminent manner both
with the obvious facts of labour, sorrow, pain, and death, with
what we see and feel every day, and with all our philosophical
inquiries into the frame of the human mind, the nature of social
life, and the origin of evil, as may appear from these papers
amongst other writings of the same kind. The several powers
of the little world within a man's own breast are at variance with
one another, as well as those of the great world ; we are utterly
unable to give a complete solution of the origin of the evils which
flow from these discords, and from the jarring of the elements
of the natural world; and yet there are comfortable hopes, that
all evil will be overpowered and annihilated at last, and that it
has an entire subserviency to good really and ultimately ; *. e.
though the serpent bruise our heel, yet we shall bruise its head.
It cannot be denied, indeed, but that both the history of the
creation, and that of the fall, are attended with great difficulties.
But then they are not of such a kind as intimate them to be
a fiction contrived by Moses. It is probable, that he set down
the traditional account, such as he received it from his ancestors;
and that this account contains the literal truth in short, though
so concealed in certain particulars through its shortness, and
some figurative expressions made use of, that we cannot yet,
perhaps never shall, interpret it satisfactorily. However, Mr.
Whiston's conjectures concerning the six days* creation seem to
deserve the attention of future inquirers ; and there is great
plausibility in supposing with him, that the first chapter of
Genesis contains a narrative of the succession of visible ap
pearances.
One may suppose also, that there is a typical and prophetic
sense to be discovered hereafter, relative perhaps to the six mil-
leniums, which are to precede a seventh sabbatical one ; and that
c c 2
388 THE TRUTH OF
the words are more accommodated to this sense than to the literal
one, in some places, which I think holds in many of the pro
phecies that have double senses. However, there is no appear
ance of any motive to a fraud, either in the history of the
creation or fall, nor any mark of one. And the same shortness
and obscurity which prevents our being able to explain, seems
also to preclude objections. If we suppose these histories to
have been delivered by traditional explanations that accompanied
hieroglyphical delineations, this would perhaps account for some
of the difficulties ; and help us to conceive how the histories may
be exact, and even decypherable hereafter. The appellations of
the tree of life, of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil,
and of the serpent, seem to favour this supposition. At the
utmost, one can make no objections against these histories, but
what are consistent with the first and lowest of the suppositions
above-mentioned concerning divine inspiration.
Natural history bears a strong testimony to Moses's account
of the deluge ; and shews that it must have been universal, or
nearly so, however difficult it may be to us, either to find sources
for so great a body of waters, or methods of removing them.
That a comet had some share in this event, seems highly pro
bable, from what Dr. Halley and Mr. Whiston have observed of
this matter : I guess also partly from the supposition, that some
part of the tail of a comet was then attracted by the earth, and
deposited there, partly from the great shortening of human life
after the flood, and partly from the fermenting and inebriating
quality of vegetable juices, which seems first to have appeared
immediately after the flood, that a great change was made at the
time of the flood in the constitution of natural bodies, and par
ticularly in that of water. And it seems not improbable to me,
that an enlargement of the respective spheres of attraction and
repulsion, and of the force of these, in the small particles of
water, might greatly contribute to account for some circumstances
of the deluge, mentioned by Moses. For, by the increase of the
sphere, and force of attraction, the waters suspended in the air
or firmament in the form of a mist or vapour before the flood,
see Gen. ii. 5, 6, might be collected into large drops, and fall
upon the earth. And their fall might give occasion to rarer
watery vapours, floating at great distances from the earth in the
planetary and intermundane spaces, to approach it, be in like
manner condensed into large drops, and fall upon it. This might
continue for forty days, the force with which the rare vapours
approached the earth decreasing all the latter part of that time,
and being at the end of it overpowered by the contrary force of
the vapours raised from the earth, now covered with water, by
the action of the sun, and of the wind, mentioned Gen. viii. 1.
For it is evident, that the wind has great power in raising watery
particles, i. e. putting them into a state of repulsion ; and the
wind here considered would be far stronger than that which now
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 389
prevails in the Pacific Ocean, since the whole globe was one
great ocean during the height of the deluge. The cessation of
the rain, and the increase of the sphere, and force of repulsion,
above supposed, would in like manner favour the ascent of
vapours from this great ocean. And thus the precedent vapours
might be driven by subsequent ones into the planetary and inter-
mundane spaces, beyond the earth's attraction. However, since
the quantity of the subsequent vapours must perpetually decrease
by the decrease of the surface of the ocean, a limit would be set
to the ascent of the vapours, as was before to their descent.
According to this hypothesis, that state of our waters, which
was superinduced at the deluge, may both be the cause of the
rainbow, i. e. of drops of a size proper for this purpose, and
exempt us from the danger of a second deluge. For a fresh
intermixture of like cometical particles could not now super
induce a new state. The rainbow may therefore be a natural
sign and evidence, that the waters shall no more become a flood
to destroy the earth.
As to the breaking up the fountains of the great deep, men
tioned Gen. vii. 11, though no satisfactory account has been
given of this hitherto, yet surely there is great plausibility in
supposing, that the increased attraction of a comet, consequent
upon its near approach to the earth, might have some such effect,
and at the same time contribute to produce such changes in the
earth, as a mere deluge could not.
Civil history affords likewise many evidences, which support
the Mosaic account of the deluge. Thus, first, we find from
pagan authors, that the tradition of a flood was general, or even
universal. Secondly, The paucity of mankind, and the vast
tracts of uninhabited land, which are mentioned in the accounts
of the first ages, shew that mankind are lately sprung from a
small stock, and even suit the time assigned by Moses for the
flood. Thirdly, The great number of small kingdoms, and petty
states, in the first ages, and the late rise of the great empires of
Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, &c. concur to the same purpose.
Fourthly, The invention and progress of arts and sciences concur
likewise. And this last favours the Mosaic history of the ante
diluvians. For as he mentions little of their arts, so it appears
from the late invention of them after the flood, that those who
were preserved from it were possessed of few.
It has been, objected to the Mosaic history of the deluge, that
the ark could not contain all the animals which are now found
upon the earth, with the proper provisions for them during the
time of the deluge. But this, upon an accurate computation,
has been proved to be otherwise ; so that what was thought an
objection is even some evidence. For it is extremely improbable,
that a person who had feigned the particular of the ark, should
have come so near the proper dimensions. It is to be considered
here, that the several species of both plants, and brute animals,
390 THE TRUTH OF
which differ from each other by small degrees, seem to be multi
plied every day by the varieties of climates, culture, diet, mixture,
&c. also, that if we suppose an universal deluge, the ark, with
the entrance of the animals, &c. seem necessary also. For as we
can trace up the first imperfect rudiments of the art of shipping
amongst the Greeks, there could be no shipping before the flood ;
consequently no animals could be saved. Nay, it is highly im
probable, that even men, and domestic animals, could be saved,
not to mention wild beasts, serpents, &c. though we should
suppose, that the antediluvians had shipping, unless we suppose
also, that they had a divine intimation and directions about it,
such as Moses relates ; which would be to give up the cause of
infidelity at once.
It has been objected likewise, That the negro nations differ
so much from the Europeans, that they do not seem to have
descended from the same ancestors. But this objection has no
solid foundation. We cannot presume to say what alterations
climate, air, water, soil, customs, &c. can or cannot produce. It
is no ways to be imagined, that all the national differences in
complexion, features, make of the bones, &c. require so many
different originals ; on the contrary, we have reason from experi
ence to assert, that various changes of this kind are made by the
incidents of life, just as was observed, in the last paragraph, of
plants and brute animals. And, with respect to the different
complexions of different nations, Dr. Mitchell has shewn with
great appearance of truth, Phil. Trans. No. 474, that these
arise from external influences. It will confirm this, if it be
found, that the Jews, by residing in any country for some gene
rations, approach to the complexion of the original natives. At
the same time we must observe from the history of distempers,
that acquired dispositions may be transmitted to the descendants
for some generations ; which is perhaps one of the great truths
intimated in the account of the fall. And thus the children of
negroes may be black, though born and bred up in a country
where the original natives are not so.
A third objection is, That it is difficult to account for the
original of the Americans, and for the wild beasts and serpents
that are found in that quarter of the world, according to the
Mosaic history. But to this one may answer, first, That America
may be even now contiguous to the north-east part of Asia.
Secondly, That it might have been contiguous to other parts of
our great continent for some centuries after the deluge, though
that contiguity be since broken of. Thirdly, That the first sailors,
who ventured out of the straits, or others, might be driven, by
stress of weather, and their own ignorance, first within the in
fluence of the trade-winds, and then to some part of America.
One can offer nothing certain on either side, in respect to these
points. However, it seems to me, that many customs found
amongst the negroes and Americans are stronger evidences, that
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 391
they are of the same original with the Asiatics and Europeans,
than any which have yet appeared to the contrary. And, upon
the whole, I conclude certainly, that the Mosaic account of the
deluge is much confirmed by both natural and civil history, if we
embrace the first and lowest hypothesis concerning divine inspira
tion ; and has very strong presumptions for it, according to the
second or third.
If we could suppose the high mountains in South America not
to have been immerged in the deluge, we might the more easily
account for the wild beasts, poisonous serpents, and curious birds
of America. Might not the ark be driven round the globe during
the deluge? And might not Noah be aware of this, and observe
that it had been immerged fifteen cubits in water ? And may
not the Mosaic account be partly a narrative of what Noah saw,
partly the conclusions which he must naturally draw from thence?
Thus the tops of some of the highest mountains might escape,
consistently with the Mosaic account. The future inquiries of
natural historians may perhaps determine this point.
The next great event recorded in Genesis is the confusion of
languages. Now the Mosaic account of this appears highly pro
bable, if we first allow that of the deluge. For it seems impossible
to explain how the known languages should arise from one stock.
Let any one try only in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English.
The changes which have happened in languages since history has
been certain, do not at all correspond to a supposition of this
kind. There is too much of method and art in the Greek and
Latin tongues for them to have been the inventions of a rude and
barbarous people ; and they differ too much from Hebrew,
Arabic, &c. to have flowed from them without design. As to
the Chinese, it is difficult to make any probable conjectures
about it, partly from its great heterogeneity in respect of other
languages, partly because learned men have not yet examined it
accurately. However, the most probable conjecture seems to be,
that it is the language of Noah's postdiluvian posterity ; the least
probable one, that it could have flowed naturally from any known
language, or from the same stock with any ; which it must have
done, if we admit the deluge, and yet reject the confusion of
languages.
The dispersion of the three sons of Noah into different countries,
related in the tenth chapter of Genesis, comes next under con
sideration, being a consequence, not the cause, of the diversity
of languages. Now here antiquarians, and learned men, seem to
be fully agreed, that the Mosaic account is confirmed, as much
as can be expected in our present ignorance of the state of ancient
nations. And it is to be observed of all the articles treated of
under this proposition, that we, who live in the north-west corner
of Europe, lie under great disadvantages in such researches.
However, since those who have studied the oriental languages
and histories, or have travelled into the eastern parts, have made
392 THE TRUTH OF
many discoveries of late years, which have surprisingly confirmed
the scripture accounts, one may hope and presume, that if either
our learned men be hereafter suffered to have free access to those
parts, or the natives themselves become learned, both which are
surely probable in the highest degree, numberless unexpected
evidences for the truth of the scripture history will be brought
to light.
Let us next come to the state of religion in the ancient post
diluvian world, according to Moses, and the succeeding sacred
historians. The postdiluvian patriarchs then appear to have
worshipped the one Supreme Being by sacrifices, but in a simple
manner, and to have had frequent divine communications. By
degrees their posterity fell off to idolatry, worshipped the sun,
moon, and stars, deified dead men, and polluted themselves with
the most impure and abominable institutions. The Israelites
alone were kept to the worship of the true God, and even they
were often infected by their idolatrous neighbours. Now all this
is perfectly agreeable to what we find in pagan history. The
idolatries of the pagans are acknowledged on all hands. It
appears also from pagan history, that they grew up by degrees,
as the Scriptures intimate. All the pagan religions appear to
have had the worship of one God superior to the rest, as their
common foundation. They all endeavoured to render him pro
pitious by sacrifice; which surely cannot be a human invention,
nor a custom, which, if invented in one nation, would be readily
propagated to another. They all joined mediatorial and inferior,
also local and tutelar deities to the one God. And they all taught
the frequency of divine communications. Hence the pagan reli
gions appear to be merely the degenerated offspring of patriarchal
revelations, and to infer them as their cause. Hence the pre
tences of kings, lawgivers, priests, and great men, to inspiration,
with the credulity of the multitude. That there had been divine
communications, was beyond dispute ; and therefore all that
reluctance to admit them, which appears in the present age, was
overruled. At first there were no impostors. When therefore
they did arise, it would not be easy for the multitude to distin
guish between those who had really divine communications, and
those who only pretended to them ; till at last all real inspiration
having ceased amongst the Gentile world, their several religions
kept possession merely by the force of education, fraud in the
priests, and fear in the people ; and even these supports began to
fail at last, about the time of Christ's coming. And thus many
things, which have been thought to weaken the evidences for the
scripture accounts, are found to strengthen them, by flowing
naturally from that state of religion in ancient times, and from
that only, which the Scripture delivers.
A farther confirmation of the same scripture accounts of the
flood, dispersion of mankind, and patriarchal revelations, may be
had from the following very remarkable particular : it appears
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 393
from history, that the different nations of the world have had,
ctsteris paribus, more or less knowledge, civil and religious, in
proportion as they were nearer to, or had more intimate com
munication with, Egypt, Palestine, Chaldaea, and the other
countries, that were inhabited by the most eminent persons
amongst the first descendants of Noah, and by those who are
said in Scripture to have had particular revelations made to them
by God ; and that the first inhabitants of the extreme parts of
the world, reckoning Palestine as the centre, were in general
mere savages. Now all this is utterly inexplicable upon the
footing of infidelity, of the exclusion of all divine communications.
Why should not human nature be as sagacious, and make as
many discoveries, civil and religious, at the Cape of Good Hope,
or in America, as in Egypt, Palestine, Mesopotamia, Greece, or
Rome ? Nay, why should Palestine so far exceed them all, as
it did confessedly ? Allow the scripture accounts, and all will be
clear and easy. Mankind, after the flood, were first dispersed
from the plains of Mesopotamia. Some of the chief heads of
families setted there, in Palestine, and in Egypt. Palestine had
afterwards extraordinary divine illuminations bestowed upon its
inhabitants, the Israelites and Jews. Hence its inhabitants had
the purest notions of God, and the wisest civil establishment.
Next after them come the Egyptians and Chaldaeans, who, not
being removed from their first habitations, and living in fertile
countries watered by the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, may be
supposed to have preserved more both of the antediluvian and
postdiluvian revelations, also to have had more leisure for inven
tion, and a more free communication with the Israelites and Jews,
than any other nations : whereas those small parties, which were
driven farther and farther from each other into the extremes of
heat and cold, entirely occupied in providing necessaries for
themselves, and also cut off by rivers, mountains, or distance,
from all communication with Palestine, Egypt, and Chaldaea,
would lose much of their original stock, and have neither in
clination nor ability to invent more.
Let us now consider the history of particular facts, and inquire
what attestations we can produce from pagan history for the
scripture accounts of Abraham, and his posterity, the Israelites
and Jews. We cannot expect much here, partly because these
things are of a private nature, if compared to the universal
deluge, partly because the pagan history is either deficient, or
grossly corrupted with fable and fiction, till we come to the times
of the declension of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah. How
ever, some faint traces there are in ancient times, and many
concurring circumstances in succeeding ones ; and, as soon as the
pagan records come to be clear and certain, we have numerous
and strong confirmations of the sacred history. Thus the history
of Abraham seems to have transpired in some measure. It is
also probable, that the ancient Brachmans were of his posterity
391 THE TRUTH OF
by Keturah; that they derived their name from him, and wor
shipped the true God only. Moses is mentioned by many
heathen writers, and the account which they give of his con
ducting the Israelites from Egypt to Canaan are such as might
be expected. The authors lived so long after Moses, and had so
little opportunity or inclination to know the exact truth, or to be
particular, that their accounts cannot invalidate the scripture
history, though they do a little confirm it. The expulsion of the
Canaanites by Joshua seems to have laid the foundation of the
kingdom of the shepherds in the Lower Egypt mentioned by
Manetho, and of the expulsion of the natives into the Upper
Egypt ; who, after some centuries, drove the shepherds back
again into Canaan about the time of Saul. The Canaanites
mentioned by St. Austin and others, upon the coast of Afric,
may be of the same original. See Newton's Chronol. page. 198.
We may conclude from the book of Judges, that there were
many petty sovereignties in the neighbourhood of Canaan ; and
it appears from pagan history, as Sir Isaac Newton has rectified
it, that the first great empire, that of Egypt, was not yet risen.
When David subdued the Philistines or Phoenicians, Cadmus
and others seem to have fled into Greece, and to have carried
letters with them, which the Philistines had probably learnt,
about a generation before, from the copy of the law found in the
ark taken from the Israelites. After Solomon's temple was
built, the temple of Vulcan in Egypt, and others in other
places, began to be built in imitation of it ; just as the oracles
of the heathens were imitations of God's communications to
the Israelites, and particularly of that by Urim and Thummim.
Shishak, who came out of Egypt in the fifth year of Itehoboani,
is the Sesostris of Herodotus ; this point, being settled, becomes
a capital pin, upon which all pagan chronology depends. Hence
Herodotus's list of the Egyptian kings is made probable and
consistent. As we advance farther to the Assyrian monarchy,
the scripture accounts agree with the profane ones rectified ; and
when we come still farther to the a?ra of Nabonassar, and to the
kings of Babylon and Persia, which are posterior to this a3ra, and
recorded in Ptolemy's canon, we find the agreement of sacred
and profane history much more exact, there being certain crite-
rions in the profane history for fixing the facts related in it. And
it is remarkable that not only the direct relations of the historical
books, but the indirect, incidental mention of things in the pro
phecies, tallies with true chronology ; which surely is such an
evidence for their genuineness and truth, as cannot be called in
question. And, upon the whole, it may be observed, that the
sacred history is distinct, methodical, and consistent throughout;
the profane utterly deficient in the first ages; obscure, and full of
fictions, in the succeeding ones ; and that it is but just clear and
precise in the principal facts about the time that the sacred
history ends. So that this corrects and regulates that, and ren-
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 395
ders it intelligible in many instances, which must otherwise be
given up as utterly inexplicable. How then can we suppose the
sacred history not to be genuine and true, or a wicked imposture
to rise up, and continue not only undiscovered, but even to in
crease to a most audacious height, in a nation which of all others
kept the most exact accounts of time ? I will add one remark
more : This same nation, who may not have lost so much as one
year from the creation of the world to the Babylonish captivity,
as soon as they were deprived of the assistance of prophets,
became most inaccurate in their methods of keeping time, there
being nothing more erroneous than the accounts of Josephus,
and the modern Jews, from the time of Cyrus, to that of
Alexander the Great ; notwithstanding that all the requisite
assistances might easily have been borrowed from the neigh
bouring nations, who kept regular annals. Hence it appears
that the now exactness of the sacred history was owing to the
divine assistance.
It is an evidence in favour of the Scriptures, allied to those
which I am here considering, that the manners of the persons
mentioned in the Scriptures have that simplicity and plainness,
which is also ascribed to the first ages of the world by pagan
writers ; and both of them concur, by this, to intimate the
novelty of the then present race, i. e. the deluge.
Besides these attestations from profane history, we may con
sider the Jews themselves as bearing testimony to this day, in all
countries of the world, to the truth of their ancient history, *. e.
to that of the Old and New Testaments. Allow this, and it will
be easy to see how they should still persist in their attachment
to that religion, those laws, and those prophecies, which so
manifestly condemn them, both in past times, and in the present.
Suppose any considerable alteration made in their ancient history,
i. e. any such as may answer the purposes of infidelity, and their
present state will be inexplicable.
The books of the New Testament are verified by history, in a
manner still more illustrious ; these books being written, and the
facts mentioned therein transacted during the times of Augustus,
Tiberius, and the succeeding Caesars. Here we may observe,
First, That the incidental mention of the Roman emperors,
governors of Juda;a, and the neighbouring provinces, the Jewish
high-priests, sects of the Jews, and their customs, of places, and
of transactions, is found to be perfectly agreeable to the histories
of those times. And as the whole number of these particulars
is very great, they may be reckoned a full proof of the genuine
ness of the books of the New Testament ; it being impossible
for a person who had forged them, i. e. who was not an eye and
ear witness, and otherwise concerned with the transactions as
the books require, but who had invented many histories and
circumstances, &c. not to have been deficient, superfluous, and
erroneous. No man's memory or knowledge is sufficient for such
396 THE TRUTH OP
an adaptation of feigned circumstances, and especially where the
mention is incidental. Let any one consider how often the best
poets fail in this, who yet endeavour not to vary from the manners
and customs of the age of which they write ; at the same time
that poetry neither requires nor admits so great a minuteness in
the particular circumstances of time, place, and persons, as the
writers of the New Testament have descended to naturally and
incidentally.
Secondly, That Christ preached in Judaea and Galilee, made
many disciples, and was crucified under Pontius Pilate, at the
instigation of the chief men among the Jews ; also that his
disciples preached after his death, not only in Judaea, but all
over the Roman empire; that they converted multitudes, were
persecuted, and at last suffered death, for their firm adherence
to their master; and that both Christ and his disciples pretended
to work many miracles; are facts attested by civil history in the
amplest manner, and which cannot be called in question. Now
these facts are so connected with the other facts mentioned in
the New Testament, that they must stand or fall together. There
is no probable account to be given of these facts, but by allowing
the rest. For the proof of this, I appeal to every reader who
will make the trial. It may also be concluded from the remark
able unwillingness of the present unbelievers to allow even the
plainest facts in express terms. For it shews them to be appre
hensive, that the connexion between the several principal facts
mentioned in the New Testament is inseparable, and that the
attestation given to some by civil history may easily be extended
to all.
It has been objected, That more mention ought to have been
made of the common facts by the profane writers of those times,
also some acknowledgment of the miraculous ones, had they been
true. To this we may answer, First, That Judaea was but a small
and distant province of the Roman empire, and the Jews them
selves, with whom the Christians were for a long time confounded,
much despised by the Romans. Secondly, That historians, poli
ticians, generals, &c. have their imaginations so much preoccu
pied by affairs of state, that matters purely religious are little
regarded by them. Gallio caredfor none of these things. Thirdly,
That a person who attended in any great degree to the Christian
affairs, if a good man, could scarce avoid becoming a Christian ;
after which his testimony ceases to be Pagan, and becomes
Christian, of which I shall speak under the next head. Fourthly,
That both those who were favourers of the Christians, and those
averse to them in a moderate degree, one of which must be the
case with great numbers, would have motives to be silent ; the
half-christians would be silent for fear of being persecuted ; and
the others would affect to take no notice of what they disliked,
but could not disprove ; which is a fact that occurs to daily ob
servation. Lastly, When these things are laid together, the
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 397
attestations of the profane writers to the common facts appear to
be such as one might expect, and their silence as to the miracu
lous ones is accounted for.
Thirdly, All the Christian writers, from the time of the
apostles and downwards, bear testimony to the genuineness of
the books of the New Testament, and the truth of the facts, in a
great variety of ways, direct and indirect, and in such manner as
might be expected. Their quotations from them are numberless,
and agree sufficiently with the present copies. They go every
where upon the supposition of the facts, as the foundation of all
their discourses, writings, hopes, fears, &c. They discover every
where the highest regard, and even veneration, both for the books
and the authors. In short, one cannot see how this testimony in
favour of the books of the New Testament can be invalidated,
unless by supposing all the ecclesiastical writing of the first cen
turies to be forged also ; or all the writers to have concurred to
write as if they believed the genuineness and truth of these
books, though they did not ; or to have had no ability or incli
nation to distinguish genuineness and truth from forgery and
falsehood ; or by some other such supposition, as will scarce bear
to be named.
Here three questions may be asked, that bear some relation to
this subject ; and the answers to which will, I think, illustrate
and confirm what has been advanced in the last paragraph.
Thus, first, It may be asked, why we have not more accounts
of the life of Christ transmitted to us. To this I answer, that it
is probable from St. Luke's preface, that there were many short
and imperfect accounts handed about very early ; the authors of
which, though they had not taken care to inform themselves
accurately, did not, however, endeavour to impose on others
designedly ; and that all these grew into disuse, of course, after
the four gospels, or perhaps the three first, were published, or, at
least, after the canon of the New Testament was formed ; also
that after this the Christians were so perfectly satisfied, and had
the four gospels in such esteem, that no one presumed to add
any other accounts, and especially as all the apostles were then
dead.
The second question is, How come we to have so little
account, in the primitive writers, of the lives, labours, and suf
ferings of the apostles? I answer, that the apostles seem to
have resided in Judaea, till Nero's army invaded it, and after
wards to have travelled into distant parts; and that neither their
converts in Judaea, nor those in the distant barbarous countries,
into which they travelled, could have any probable motive for
writing their lives : also, that, as to other Christians, they had
neither opportunities nor motives. The Christians looked up to
Christ, as their master, not to the apostles. Their great business
was to promote Christianity, not to gratify their own or others
fruitless curiosity. They were not learned men, who had spent
398 THE TRUTH OF
their lives in the study of annalists and biographers. They did
not suspect, that an account of the lives of the apostles would
ever be wanted, or that any one could call their integrity, inspi
ration, miracles, &c. in question. St. Luke seems to have de
signed by his Acts, chiefly to shew how the gospel first got firm
footing amongst Jews, proselytes of the gate, and idolatrous
Gentiles; in order to encourage the new converts to copy the
examples of the apostles, and first preachers, and to publish the
gospel in all nations. Lastly, The primitive Christians had early
disputes with Jews, heathens, heretics, and even with one another;
which took up much of their attention and concern.
Thirdly, It may be asked, Who were the persons that forged
the spurious acts and revelations of several of the apostles, &c. ?
I answer, that, amongst the number of those who joined them
selves to the Christians, there must be many whose hearts were
not truly purified, and who, upon apostatizing, would become
more self- interested, vain - glorious, and impure, than before.
These were antichrists, as St. John calls them, who left the
church because they were not of it. Some of these forged books
to support themselves, and establish their own tenets. Others
might write partly like enthusiasts, partly like impostors. And,
lastly, There were some both weak and wicked men, though not
so abandoned as the ancient heretics, who in the latter end of
the second century, and afterwards, endeavoured to make con
verts by forgeries, and such other wicked acts. However, all
those who are usually called fathers, in the first ages, stand re
markably clear of such charges.
Fourthly, The propagation of Christianity, with the manner in
which it was opposed by both Jews and Gentiles, bears witness
to the truth and genuineness of the books of the New Testament.
But I forbear entering upon this argument, as it will come more
properly in another place. Let me only observe here, that there
are many passages in the Talmudical writings, which afford both
light and confirmation to the New Testament, notwithstanding
that one principal design of the authors was to discredit it.
Prop. XXV.— The Agreement of the Books of the Old and New
Testaments with themselves and with each other is an Argu
ment both of their Genuineness and Truth.
The truth of this proposition will be evident, if a sufficient
number of these mutual agreements can be made out. It is
never found that any single person, who deviates much from the
truth, can be so perfectly upon his guard as to be always consis
tent with himself. Much less therefore can this happen in the
case of a number, living also in different ages. Nothing can
make them consistent, but their copying faithfully after real facts.
The instances will make this clearer.
The laws of the Israelites are contained in the Pentateuch,
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
and referred to in -a great variety of ways, direct and indirect, in
the historical books, in the Psalms, and in the Prophecies. The
historical facts also in the preceding books are often referred to
in those that succeed, and in the Psalms and Prophecies. In
like manner, the gospels have the greatest harmony with each
other, and the Epistles of St. Paul with the Acts of the Apostles.
And indeed one may say, that there is scarce any book of either
Old or New Testament, which may not be shewn to refer to
many of the rest in some way or other. For it is to be observed,
that the Bible has been studied and commented upon far more
than any other book whatsoever ; and that it has been the busi
ness of believers in all ages to find out the mutual relations of its
parts, and of unbelievers to search for inconsistencies ; also that
the first meet every day with more and more evidences in favour
of the Scriptures from the mutual agreements and coincidences
here considered ; and that unbelievers have never been able to
allege any inconsistencies that could in the least invalidate the
truth of the principal facts ; I think, not even affect the divine
inspiration of the historical books, according to the second or
third hypothesis above-mentioned.
It will probably illustrate this proposition, to bring a parallel
instance from the Roman writers. Suppose then that no more
remained of these writers than Livy, Tully, and Horace. Would
they not, by their references to the same facts and customs, by
the sameness of style in the same writer, and differences in the
different ones, and numberless other such like circumstances of
critical consideration, prove themselves and one another to be
genuine, and the principal facts related, or alluded to, to be
true ?
It is also to be observed, that this mutual harmony and self-
consistency, in its ultimate ratio, is the whole of the evidence
which we have for facts done in ancient times, or distant places.
Thus, if a person was so sceptical as to call in question the whole
Roman history, even the most notorious facts, as their conquests
first of Italy, and then of the neighbouring countries, the death
of Caesar, and the fall of the western empire by the invasions of
the Goths and Vandals, with all the evidences of these from
books, inscriptions, coins, customs, &c. as being all forged in
order to deceive ; one could only shew him, that it is inconsistent
with what he sees of human nature, to suppose that there
should be such a combination to deceive ; or that the agreement
of these evidences with each other is far too great to be the
effect of any such fraudulent design, of chance, &c. And all
these arguments are, in effect, only bringing a number of con
curring evidences, whose sum total soon approaches to the ulti
mate limit, i. e. to unity, or absolute certainty, nearer than by
any distinguishable difference. It does not therefore import, in
respect of real conviction, after a certain number are brought,
whether we bring any more or no ; they can only add this
400 THE TRUTH OF
imperceptible defect, i. e. practically nothing. Thus I suppose,
that the remaining writings of Livy, Tully, and Horace, alone
would satisfy any impartial man so much of the general exten-
siveness of the Roman conquests, &c. that nothing perceptible
could be added to his conviction ; no more than any common event
can, or ever does in fact, appear more credible from the testi
mony of a thousand than of ten or twenty witnesses of approved
integrity. And whoever will apply this reasoning to the present
case, must perceive, as it appears to me, that the numberless
minute, direct, and indirect agreements and coincidences, that
present themselves to all diligent readers of the Scriptures, prove
their truth and genuineness beyond all contradiction, at least
according to the first and lowest hypothesis concerning divine
inspiration.
As to those few and small apparent inconsistencies, which are
supposed to confine the inspiration of the Scriptures to this
lowest sense ; one may observe, that they decrease every day as
learned men inquire farther ; and that, were the Scriptures
perfectly exact in every particular, there must be some apparent
difficulties, arising merely from our ignorance of ancient lan
guages, customs, distant places, &c. and consequently that if
these be not more than our ignorance makes it reasonable to
expect, they are no objection at all. And of apparent incon
sistencies one may remark in particular, that they exclude the
supposition of forgery. No single forger, or combination of
forgers, would have suffered the apparent inconsistencies which
occur in a few places, such as the different genealogies of Christ
in St. Matthew and St. Luke, and some little variations in the
narration of the same fact in different gospels. These are too
obvious at first sight not to have been prevented, had there been
any fraud.
I will here add an hypothesis, by which, as it appears to me,
one may reconcile the genealogies of St. Matthew and St. Luke.
I suppose then, that St. Matthew relates the real progenitors of
Joseph; St. Luke the series of those who were heirs to David
by birthright; and that both transcribed from genealogical
tables, well known to the Jews of those times. St. Matthew
after David takes Solomon, from whom Joseph lineally descended.
St. Luke takes Nathan, upon whom, though younger than some
others, and even than Solomon, we must suppose the birthright
to be conferred, as in the instances of Jacob and Joseph. St.
Matthew proceeds by real descent to Salathiel, at the time of
the captivity ; St. Luke proceeds by the heirs according to birth
right, and comes to Salathiel likewise. We must therefore
suppose, that Salathiel, Solomon's heir, was now David's also, by
the extinction of all the branches of Nathan's family. St. Mat
thew then takes Zorobabel as Joseph's real progenitor, St. Luke
takes him as heir or eldest son to Salathiel. Again, St. Matthew
takes Abiud the real progenitor, St. Luke Rhesa the eldest son ;
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 401
and thus St. Matthew proceeds by lineal descent to Joseph ;
St. Luke by heirs to the same Joseph; for we are to suppose,
that Heli dying without heirs male, Joseph became his heir by
birthright, i. e. heir to Zorobabel, *. e. to David. If we farther
suppose, that the Virgin Mary was daughter to Heli, for which
there appears to be some evidence, the solution will be more
complete, and more agreeable to the Jewish customs. It con
firms this solution, that St. Matthew uses the word iylvvritre,
which restrains his genealogy to lineal descent ; whereas St. Luke
uses the article rov, which is very general. It confirms it also,
that St. Luke's descents, reckoning from David to Salathiel, are
but about twenty-two years apiece ; which is much too short for
descents from father to son, but agrees very well, to descents by
birthright. As to St. Matthew's descents, they are far too long,
after the captivity, for descents from father to son ; but then it
is easy to suppose, that some were left out on account of dying
before their fathers, or some other reason. Three of the kings
of Judah are left out after Joram, perhaps on account of their
being of the immediate posterity of the idolatrous Ahab's
daughter Athaliah. Others are left out after the captivity,
perhaps for some similar reason.
Prop. XXVI.—The Unity of Design, which appears in the
Dispensations recorded in the Scriptures, is an Argument not
only of their Truth and Genuineness, but also of their Divine
Authority.
For this unity is not only so great as to exclude forgery and
fiction, in the same way as the mutual agreements mentioned in
the last proposition, but also greater than the best and ablest
men could have preserved, in the circumstances of these writers,
without the divine assistance. In order to see this, let us inquire
what this design is, and how it is pursued by the series of events,
and divine interpositions, recorded in the Scriptures.
The design is that of bringing all mankind to an exalted, pure,
and spiritual happiness, by teaching, enforcing, and begetting in
them love and obedience to God. This appears from many
passages in the Old Testament, and from almost every part of
the New. Now we are.not here to inquire in what manner an
Almighty Being could soonest and most effectually accomplish
this. But the question is, whether, laying down the state of
things as it has been, is, and probably will be, for our founda
tion, there be not a remarkable fitness in the dispensations
ascribed to God in the Scriptures, to produce this glorious effect ;
and whether the persons who administered these dispensations
did not here concur with a surprising uniformity, though none of
them saw God's ultimate design completely, and some but very
imperfectly; just as brutes, by their instincts, and children, by
the workings of their natural faculties, contribute to their own
D D
402 THE TRUTH OF
preservation, improvement, and happiness, without at all fore
seeing that they do this. If we alter any of the circumstances
of the microcosm, or macrocosm, of the frame of our own natures,
or of the external world that surrounds us, we shall have question
rise up after question, in an endless series, and shall never be
satisfied, unless God should be pleased to produce happiness
instantaneously, i. e. without any means, or secondary instru
mental causes, at all ; and, even then, we should only be where
we were at our first setting out, if things be considered in the
true, ultimate light. We are, therefore, to lay down the real
state of things, as our foundation ; i. e. we are to suppose man to
be in a state of good mixed with evil, born with appetites, and
exposed to temptations, to which, if he yields, suffering must
follow ; which suffering, however, tends to eradicate the dis
position from whence it flowed, and to implant a better : we are
to suppose him to be endued with voluntary powers, which
enable him to model his affections and actions according to a
rule ; and that the love of God, his ultimate happiness, can never
be genuine, but by his first learning to fear God, by his being
mortified to pleasure, honour, and profit, and the most refined
selfish desires, and by his loving his neighbour as himself; *. e.
we must suppose all that which practical writers mean by a state
of trial, temptation, moral exercise, and improvement, and of
practical free-will. Let us see, therefore, how the several dis
pensations mentioned in the Scriptures, their being recorded
there, and the subordinate parts which the prophets and apostles
acted, conspired to bring about this ultimate end of man, both in
each individual, and in the whole aggregate, considered as one
great individual, as making up the mystical body of Christ,
according to the language of St. Paul; and inquire whether, if
all other reasons were set aside, the mere harmony and con
currence of so many parts, and so many persons removed from
each other by long intervals of time, in this one great design,
will not compel us to acknowledge the genuineness, truth, and
divine authority, of the Scriptures.
The first thing which presents itself to us in the Scriptures, is
the history of the creation and fall. These are not to be accounted
for, as was said above, being the foundation upon which we go.
However, the recording them by Moses, as tradition began to
grow weak and uncertain, has been of great use to all those who
have had them communicated by this means perfectly or im
perfectly, *. e. to a great part of the world. This history impresses
an awful and amiable sense of the Divine Being, our creator and
judge; shews the heinousness of sin; and mortifies us to this
world, by declaring that our passage through it must be attended
with labour and sorrow. We find ourselves in this state: re
vealed religion did not bring us into it: nor is this state an
objection to revealed religion, more than to natural: however,
revealed religion goes a step higher than natural, and shews the
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 403
immediate secondary cause, viz. the sin and wilful disobedience
of our first parents. And when the account of paradise, of man's
expulsion thence, and of the curse past upon him in the be
ginning of Genesis, are compared with the removal of this curse,
of sorrow, crying, pain, and death, with the renovation of all
things, and with man's restoration to the tree of life and paradise,
and his admission into the new Jerusalem in the last chapters of
the Revelation, hope and fear quicken each other; and both
conspire to purify the mind, and to advance the great design
considered under this proposition.
How far the deluge was necessary, cceteris manentibus, for the
purification of those who were destroyed by it, i. e. for accom
plishing this great end in them, we cannot presume to say. It
is sufficient that there is no contrary presumption, that no
methods consistent with the state of things in the ancient world
were neglected, as far as we know, and that we are not in the
least able to propose a better scheme. We leave these rebellious,
unhappy people, now translated into another state, to the same
kind Providence which attended them in this, and all whose
punishments on this side the grave are for melioration. How
ever, the evident footsteps of this in the world, and the clear
tradition of it, which would continue for several ages, also the
history of it delivered by Moses, have an unquestionable good
tendency. Sinners, who reflect at all, cannot but be alarmed at
so dreadful an instance of divine severity. Farther, if this
history should open to us a new relation, viz. that which we bear
to the comets, this, compared with other parts of the Scriptures,
may give us hereafter such intimations concerning the kind,
degree, and duration of future punishment, as will make the
most obdurate tremble, and work in them that fear which is the
beginning of wisdom, and of the perfect love which casteth out
fear. At the same time we may observe, that the covenant
which God made, not only with Noah and his posterity, but
with all living creatures, after the flood, has a direct and imme
diate tendency to beget love.
The confusion of languages, the consequent dispersion of man
kind, and the shortening of the lives of the postdiluvians, all
concurred to check the exorbitant growth and infection of
wickedness. And we may judge how necessary these checks
were, ceteris manentibus, from the great idolatry and corruption
which appeared in the world within less than a thousand years
after the flood. The patriarchal revelations mentioned and
intimated by Moses had the same good effects, and were the
foundations of those pagan religions, and, in great measure, of
that moral sense, which, corrupt and imperfect as they were,
could not but be far preferable to an entire want of these. If it
be objected, that, according to this, greater checks, and more
divine communications, were wanted ; I answer, that a greater
dispersion, or shortening of human life, might have prevented
401 THE TRUTH OF
the destined increase of mankind, or the growth of knowledge,
civil and religious, &c. and that more or more evident divine
interpositions might have restrained the voluntary powers too
much, or have precluded that faith which is necessary to our
ultimate perfection. These are conjectures indeed ; but they
are upon the level with the objection, which is conjectural also.
The next remarkable particular that occurs, is the calling of
Abraham, the father of the faithful. Now in this part of the
scripture history, as it is explained in the New Testament, we
have the strongest evidences of God's great design to purify and
perfect mankind. He is called to forsake his relations, friends,
and country, lest he should be corrupted by idolatry ; he receives
the promise of the land of Canaan, without seeing any probable
means of obtaining it, besides this promise, in order to wean him
from the dependence on external means ; he waits for a son till
all natural expectations ceased, for the same purpose; by obtain
ing him he learns to trust in God notwithstanding apparent im
possibilities ; and the command to sacrifice his son, his only son
Isaac, whom he loved, affords him a noble opportunity of exer
cising this trust, and of shewing that his principle of obedience to
God was already superior to the purest of earthly affections.
Lastly, when God promises him, as a reward for all his faith and
obedience, as the highest blessing, that in him and his seed all
the nations of the earth should be blessed, we must conceive this
to be a declaration, first, that God himself is infinitely benevolent;
and, secondly, that the happiness of Abraham, of his seed, and of
all mankind, who were to be blessed in his seed, must arise from
their imitation of God in his benevolence. This whole universe
is therefore a system of benevolence, or, as St. Paul expresses it,
a body, which, being fitly framed and compacted together, in-
creaseth itself in love.
As to the objection which is sometimes made to the sacrifice of
Isaac, we may observe, that Abraham had himself received so
many divine communications, and had been acquainted with so
many made to his ancestors, that he had no doubt about the
command's coming from God, did not even ask himself the ques
tion. It is probable, that in that early age there had as yet been
few or no false pretences, or illusions. Abraham could as little
doubt of God's right to Isaac's life, or of his care of him in
another state. These things were parts of the patriarchal religion.
And yet great faith was required in Abraham, before he could
overcome his natural affection and tenderness for Isaac out of a
principle of obedience to God, and trust God for the accomplish
ment of his promise, though he commanded him to destroy the
only apparent means of accomplishing it. Unless Abraham had
been highly advanced in faith and obedience, he could not have
stood so severe a trial ; but this trial would greatly confirm these.
And thus this history is so far from being liable to objection, that
it is peculiarly conformable to those methods, which mere reason
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 405
and experience dictate as the proper ones, for advancing and per
fecting true religion in the soul. When the typical nature of it
is also considered, one cannot surely doubt of its divine authority.
And, in the previous steps, through which Abraham passed in
order to obtain this blessing, we have an adumbration and example
of that faith, patience, and gradual progress in the spiritual life,
which are necessary to all those who hope to be blessed with faith
ful Abraham.
Let us next pass on to Moses, and the Israelites under his
conduct. Here we enter upon the consideration of that people,
who are the type of mankind in general, and of each individual in
particular ; who were the keepers of the oracles of God, and who,
under God, agreeably to his promise to Abraham, have been, and
will hereafter be, a blessing to all nations, and the means of
restoring man to his paradisiacal state. And first they are op
pressed with a cruel slavery in Egypt, lest, being delighted with
its fertility, and the present pleasures of sense which it afforded,
they should forget their true earthly country, the land ofpromise.
They then see the most amazing judgments inflicted upon their
enemies, the Egyptians, by God, whilst they themselves were pro^
tected and delivered, that so they might learn confidence in his
power and favour, and be thus prepared for their institution in
religion, and their trial and purification in the wilderness. And
here the awful delivery of the law, their being fed from day to day
by miracle, their being kept from all commerce with other nations,
and from all cares of this world in building, planting, &c. till
their old habits, and Egyptian customs and idolatries, were quite
effaced, and the practice of the new law established, their having
the history of the world, and particularly of their ancestors, laid
before them in one view, their tabernacle, their numerous rites
and ceremonies, additional to those of the patriarchal religion,
and opposite to the growing idolatries of their neighbours the
Egyptians and Canaanites, and which, besides their uses as types,
were memorials of their relation to God, and of his constant
presence and protection, and, lastly, the total extinction of that
murmuring generation, who longed for the flesh-pots of Egypt,
cannot but appear to be intended for the purification of this
chosen people, as being remarkably analogous to the methods of
purification, which every good man experiences in himself, and
sees in others, i. e. cannot but appear highly conducive to the
great design considered under this proposition. At last, the
education and instruction of this people being finished, they are
admitted to inherit the earthly promise made to their forefathers,
and take possession of the land of Canaan under Joshua. And
thus we come to a remarkable period in God's dispensations to
them.
Now therefore they are, in some measure, left to themselves,
for the sake of moral improvement, the divine interpositions
being far less frequent and solemn, than at the first erection of
4m THE TRUTH OF
the theocracy under Moses's administration. However, there
were many supernatural interpositions, appointments, favours,
corrections, &c. from Joshua to Malachi, on account of their yet
infant state in respect of internal purity, whose tendency to im
prove both the body politic of the nation, and each individual, is
sufficiently evident. After Malachi they were entirely left to
themselves ; their canon being completed, they were then only
to hear and digest what Moses and the prophets had delivered
unto them ; and by this means to prepare themselves for the last
and completest dispensation.
But, before we enter upon this, let us briefly consider the state
of the Gentile world, in the interval between Abraham and
Christ, and what intimations the Old Testament gives us of their
being also under the care of Providence, and in a state of moral
discipline. They had then, according to this, first, The traditions
of patriarchal revelations. Secondly, All the nations in the
neighbourhood of Canaan had frequent opportunities and motives
to inform themselves of the true religion. Thirdly, All those
who conquered them at any time could not but learn something
both from their subjection, and their deliverances afterwards.
Fourthly, The captivities by Salmaneser and Nebuchadnezzar
carried the knowledge of the true God to many distant nations.
Lastly, The distractions of the Jewish state during the cotem-
porary empires of Syria and Egypt, the rise of the Samaritan
religion, and the translation of the Old Testament into Greek,
conduced eminently to the same purpose. And as it is necessary
in the present state of things, for the exercise of various affections,
and our moral improvement, that there should be degrees and
subordinations in common things, so it seems equally necessary
that it should be so in religious matters : and thus the Gentiles
may have had, in the interval between Abraham and Christ, all
that suited their other circumstances, all that they could have
improved by internal voluntary purity, other things remaining
the same, which is always supposed. And it is remarkable in the
view of this proposition, that we learn so much from the Scriptures
concerning the moral discipline which God afforded to the Gentiles.
When we come to the New Testament, the great design of all
God's dipensations appears in a still more conspicuous manner.
Here we see how Christ began to erect his spiritual kingdom,
and the apostles extended it; we have the sublimest doctrines,
and purest precepts, for effecting it in ourselves and others, and
the strongest assurances that it will be effected at last, that this
leaven will continue to operate till the whole lump be leavened.
But, above all, it is remarkable, that the principal means for
effecting this is by submission and sufferance, not resistance and
external violence. The preachers are to undergo shame, per
secution, and death, as the Lord of life and glory did before
them. This is that foolishness of God, which is wiser than men,
and that weakness of God, which is stronger than men. These
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 407
means seem foolish and weak to the false wisdom of this world.
But if they be compared with the frame of our natures, and with
the real constitution of things, they will appear to be perfectly
suited to produce in all mankind that best of ends, the annihi
lation of self, and worldly desires, and the pure and perfect love
of God, and of all his creatures, in and through him.
Setting aside therefore the greatness of this end, and its
suitableness to the divine goodness, setting aside also the miracles
which have concurred in it, I say that the coincidence of the
histories, precepts, promises, threatenings, and prophecies of the
Scriptures in this one point, is an argument not only of their
genuineness and truth, but of their divine authority. Had the
writers been guided by their own spirits, and not by the super
natural influences of the Spirit of truth, they could neither have
opened to us the various dispensations of God tending to this one
point, nor have pursued it themselves, with such entire steadiness
and uniformity, through so many different ages of the world.
The gradual opening of this design is an argument to the
same purpose. Man's wisdom, if it could have formed such a
design, would have rushed forward upon it prematurely. At the
same time we may observe, that this design is implied in the
Scriptures from the first, though not expressed so as to be then
understood ; which is another argument of their divine original.
Cor. From the reasoning used under this proposition we may
be led to believe, that all the great events which happen in the
world, have, the same use as the dispensations recorded in the
Scriptures, viz. that of being a course of moral discipline for
nations and individuals, and of preparing the world for future
dispensations. Thus the irruption of the barbarous nations into
the Roman empire, the Mahometan imposture, the corruptions
of the Christian religion, the ignorance and darkness which
reigned for some centuries during the grossest of these corrup
tions, the reformation, restoration of letters, and the invention of
printing, three great cotemporary events which succeeded the
dark times, the rise of the enthusiastical sects since the refor
mation, the vast increase and diffusion of learning in the present
times, the growing extensiveness of commerce between various
nations, the great prevalence of infidelity amongst both Jews
and Christians, the dispersion of Jews and Jesuits into all known
parts of the world, &c. &c. are all events, which however mis
chievous some of them may seem to human wisdom, are, ceteris
manentibus, the most proper and effectual way of hastening the
kingdom of Christ, and the renovation of all things.
Prop. XXVII.—Divine Communications, Miracles, and Pro
phecies, are agreeable to Natural Religion, and even seem
necessary in the Infancy of the World.
Since God is a being of infinite justice, mercy, and bounty,
according to natural religion, it is reasonable to expect, that if
408 THE TRUTH OF
the deficiencies of natural reason, or the inattention of mankind
to the footsteps of his providence, were such at any time, as that
all the world were in danger of being lost in ignorance, irreligion,
and idolatry, God should interpose by extraordinary instruction,
by alarming instances of judgment and mercy, and by prophet
ical declarations of things to come, in order to teach men his
power, his justice, and his goodness, by sensible proofs and mani
festations. We must not say here, that God could not suffer
this; but inquire from history, whether he has or no. Now I
suppose it will easily be acknowledged, that this was the case
with the Gentile world in ancient times, and that the Judaical
and Christian institutions have greatly checked irreligion and
idolatry, and advanced true natural religion ; which is a remark
able coincidence in favour of these institutions, though all other
evidences for them were set aside. Neither must we say here,
that since God permits gross ignorance in some nations, the Hot
tentots for instance, even to this day, he might have permitted it
in all mankind. Allow that we know so little of his unsearchable
judgments-, as not to be able to make any certain conclusion : yet
surely it is much more agreeable to the forenamed attributes, and
to the analogies of other things, that the bulk of mankind should
have such a knowledge of God, as suits their intellectual faculties,
and other circumstances, and carries them forwards in moral
improvement, than that all should stand still, or go backwards, or
make less improvement in religion than tallies with their im
provements in other things ; also that there should be a subor
dination in religious advantages, rather than a perfect equality.
Natural religion also teaches us to consider God as our governor,
judge, and father. Now all these superiors have two ways of
administration, instruction, and providence, for the well-being of
their inferiors, ordinary and extraordinary. It is therefore natural
to expect upon great occasions an extraordinary interposition by
revelation, miracle, and prophecy; and that especially in that
infancy of the world after the deluge, which both sacred and
profane history assure us of; inasmuch as both states and indivi
duals require much more of the extraordinary interposition of
governors and parents in their infancy, than afterwards: all which
has a remarkable correspondence with the history of revelation,
as it is in fact. And the analogical presumptions for miracles, in
this and the last paragraph, seem at least equal to any presump
tion we have, or can have, in this our state of ignorance of the
whole of things, against them.
But there is another argument in favour of miraculous inter
positions, which may be drawn from the foregoing theory of
human nature. I take it for granted that mankind have not
been upon this earth from all eternity. Eternity neither suits
an imperfect, finite race of beings, nor our habitation, the earth.
It cannot have revolved round the sun, as it does now, from all
eternity ; it must have had such changes made in it from its own
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 409
fabric and principles, from the shocks of comets, &c. in infinite
time, as would be inconsistent with our survival. There was
therefore a time when man was first placed upon the earth. In
what state was he then placed? An infant, with his mind a
blank, void of ideas, as children now are born ? He would perish
instantly, without a series of miracles to preserve, educate, and
instruct him. Or if he be supposed an adult with a blank mind,
*. e. without ideas, associations, and the voluntary powers of
walking, handling, speaking, &c. the conclusion is the same; he
must perish also, unless conducted by a miraculous interposition
and guardianship. He must therefore have so much of know
ledge, and of voluntary and secondarily automatic powers,
amongst which speech must be reckoned as a principal one, im
pressed upon him in the way of instinct, as would be necessary
for his own preservation, and that of his offspring, and this
instinct is, to all intents and purposes, divine revelation, since he
did not acquire it by natural means. It is also of the nature of
prophecy ; for it seems impossible for mankind to subsist upon
the earth, as it now is, without some foreknowledge, and the
consequent methods of providing for futurity, such, for instance,
as brutes have, or even greater, since man, unprovided with
manual arts, is peculiarly exposed to dangers, necessities, and
hardships.
Let us next consider, how the first men are to be provided
with the knowledge of God, and a moral sense : for it seems
necessary, that they should be possessed of some degree of these ;
else the sensual and selfish desires would be so exorbitant, as to
be inconsistent both with each man's own safety, and with that
of his neighbour ; as may be gathered from the accounts of savage
nations, who yet are not entirely destitute of the knowledge
of God, and the moral sense. Now, to deduce the existence and
attributes of God, even in a very imperfect manner, from natural
phaenomena, requires, as it seems to me, far more knowledge
and ratiocination, than men could have for many generations,
from their natural powers; and that especially, if we suppose
language not to be inspired, but attained in a natural way. And
it appears, both from the foregoing account of the moral sense,
and from common observation, that this requires much time,
care, and cultivation, besides the previous knowledge of God,
before it can be a match for the impetuosity of natural desires.
We may conclude therefore, that the first men could not attain
to that degree of the knowledge of God, and a moral sense,
which was necessary for them, without divine inspiration.
There are several particulars in the Mosaic account of the
creation, fall, and circumstances of the ancient world, which tally
remarkably with the method of reasoning used here. Thus, man
is at first placed in a paradise, where there was nothing noxious,
and consequently where he would need less miraculous inter
position in order to preserve him. He lives upon the fruits of
410 THE TRUTH OF
the earth, which want no previous arts of preparing them, and
which would strike him by their smells, and after an instance or
two, incite him to pluck and taste : whereas animal diet, besides
its inconsistency with a state of pure innocence and happiness,
requires art and preparation necessarily. There is only one man,
and one woman, created, that so the occasions for exerting the
social affections may not offer themselves in any great degree,
before these affections are generated ; but on the contrary, the
affections may grow naturally, as it were, out of the occasions.
The nakedness, and want of shame, in our first parents, are con
curring evidences of the absence of art, acquired affections, evil,
&c. i. e. of a paradisiacal state. In this state they learnt to
give names to the animal world, perhaps from the automatic and
semivoluntary exertions of the organs of speech, which the sight
of the creatures, or the sound of their several cries, would excite,
having probably a sufficient stock of language for communication
with God, and for conversing with each other about their daily
food, and other necessary things, given them by immediate in
stinct or inspiration. And thus they would be initiated, by
naming the animals, into the practice of inventing, learning, and
applying words. For the same reasons, we may suppose that
they learnt many other things, and particularly the habit of
learning, during their abode in paradise. Nay, it may perhaps
be, that this growth of acquired knowledge, with the pleasantness
of it, might put them upon learning evil as well as good, and
excite the forbidden curiosity. After the fall, we find God
providing them with clothes, Cain banished from the presence of
God, an argument that others were permitted to have recourse to
this presence to ask counsel, &c. his posterity inventing arts for
themselves, Enoch and Noah walking with God before the flood,
and Abraham afterwards; all the antediluvian patriarchs long-
lived, the postdiluvian long-lived also for some generations;
amongst other reasons, that they might instruct posterity in
religious and other important truths; and the divine interpositions
continuing through the whole antediluvian world, and gradually
withdrawn in the postdiluvian. And it seems to me, to say the
least, a very difficult thing for any man, even at this day, to
invent a more probable account of the first peopling of this
earth, than that which Moses has given us.
Prop. XXVIII.—The objection made against the Miracles re
corded in the Scriptures, from their being contrary to the Course
of Nature, is of little or no Force.
It is alleged here by the objectors, that the course of nature is
fixed and immutable ; and that this is evinced by the concurrent
testimony of all mankind in all ages ; and consequently that the
testimony of a few persons, who affirm the contrary, cannot be
admitted ; but is, ipso facto, invalidated by its opposing general,
or even universal experience. Now to this I answer,
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 411
First, That we do not, by admitting the testimony of mankind
concerning the descent of heavy bodies upon the surface of our
earth, the common effects of heat and cold, &c. suppose that this
invalidates the testimony of those who declare they have met
with contrary appearances in certain cases. Each party testifies
what they have seen ; and why may not the evidence of both be
true ? It does not follow, because a thing has happened a thou
sand or ten thousand times, that it never has failed, nor ever can
fail. Nothing is more common or constant, than the effect of
gravity in making all bodies upon the surface of our earth tend
to its centre. Yet the rare extraordinary influences of magnetism
and electricity can suspend this tendency. Now, before mag
netism and electricity were discovered, and verified by a variety
of concurrent facts, there would have been as much reason to
disallow the evidence of their particular effects attested by eye
witnesses, as there is now to disallow the particular miracles
recorded in the Scriptures; and yet we see that such a dis
allowance would have been a hasty conclusion, would have been
quite contrary to the true nature of things. And, in fact, what
ever may be the case of a few persons, and particularly of those,
who think that they have an interest in disproving revealed
religion, the generality of mankind, learned and unlearned,
philosophical and vulgar, in all ages, have had no such disposition
to reject a thing well attested by witnesses of credit, because it
was contrary to the general, or even universal tenor, of former
observations. Now it is evident to considering persons, especially
if they reflect upon the foregoing history of association, that the
dispositions to assent and dissent are generated in the human
mind from the sum total of the influences, which particular
observations have had upon it. It follows therefore, since the
bulk of mankind, of all ranks and orders, have been disposed to
receive facts the most surprising, and contrary to the general
tenor, upon their being attested in a certain limited degree, that
extraordinary facts are not, in a certain way of considering the
thing, out of the tenor of nature, but agreeable to it ; that here
therefore, as well as in common facts, the stress is to be laid upon
the credibility of the witnesses ; and that to do otherwise is an
argument either of some great singularity of mind or of an undue
bias.
Secondly, If it should be alleged by the objectors, that they
do not mean, by the course of nature, that tenor of common
observations which occurred to the first rude ages of the world,
or even that tenor which is usually called so at present; but
those more general laws of matter and motion, to which all the
various phaenomena of the world, even those which are appa
rently most contrary to one another, may be reduced ; and that
it is probable, that universal experience would concur to support
the true laws of nature of this kind, were mankind sufficiently
industrious and accurate in bringing together the facts, and
412 THE TRUTH OF
drawing the conclusions from them ; in which case, any devia
tions from the tenor of nature, thus supported and explained,
would be far more improbable, than according to the supposition
of the foregoing paragraph ; we answer, that this objection is a
mere conjecture. Since we do not yet know what these true
laws of matter and motion are, we cannot presume to say whether
all phaenomena are reducible to them, or not. Modern philo
sophers have indeed made great advances in natural knowledge ;
however, we are still in our infant state, in respect of it, as much
as former ages, if the whole of things be taken into consideration.
And this objection allows and supposes it to be so. Since there
fore it was the proper method for former ages, in order to make
advances in real knowledge to abide by the award of credible
testimonies, however contrary these testimonies might appear to
their then notions and analogies, so this is also the proper
method for us.
If indeed we put the course of nature for that series of events,
which follow each other in the order of cause and effect by the
divine appointment, this would be an accurate and philosophical
way of speaking ; but then we must at once acknowledge, that
we are so ignorant of what may be the divine purposes and
appointments, of secret causes, and of the corresponding variety
of events, that we can only appeal to the facts, to credible rela
tions of what actually has been, in order to know what is
agreeable to the course of nature thus explained. The Scrip
ture miracles may not be at all contrary to its fixedness and
immutability. Nor can any objection lie against them, if we
consider things in this light, from the present notions of philo
sophical men, i. e. from the course of nature, understood in a
popular sense ; since this falls so short of the true course of
nature, as here defined, i. e. as admitting the instrumentality of
beings superior to us, men divinely inspired, good angels, evil
spirits, and many other influences, of which our present philo
sophy can take no cognizance.
With respect to moral analogy, the case is somewhat different.
If the moral attributes of God, and the general rules of his
providence, be supposed to be established upon a sure footing,
then a series of events, which should be contrary to these, would
have a strong presumption against them. And yet it becomes
us to be very diffident here also. God is infinite, and we finite :
we may therefore, from seeing only a small portion, judge what
we see to be different from what it is. However, revealed reli
gion has no occasion in general for any such apology. Natural
and revealed religion, the word and works of God, are in all
principal things most wonderfully analogous; as has been suffi
ciently shewn by the advocates for revealed religion, and most
especially by Bishop Butler, in his Analogy. As far, therefore,
as moral analogy carries weight, there is positive evidence for the
scripture miracles. And our comprehension of natural analogy
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 413
is so imperfect as scarce to afford any presumption against them ;
but leaves the evidence in their favour of nearly the same
strength as it would have had for other facts.
Thirdly, Let it be observed, that the evidences for the scrip
ture miracles are so numerous, and, in other respects, so strong,
as to be nearly equal to any evidences that can be brought for
the most common facts. For it is very manifest, as has been
observed before, that a great number of credible evidences make
a sum total, that is equal to unity, or absolute certainty, as this
has been considered in the foregoing part of this work, nearer
than by any perceptible difference : and the greatest number can
never arrive quite to unity. The evidence, therefore, for common
facts cannot exceed that for the scripture miracles by more than
an imperceptible difference, if we estimate evidences according to
the truest and most accurate manner. Hence the nearly equal
evidences for each must establish each in nearly an equal degree,
unless we suppose either some such inconsistency between them,
as that, common facts being allowed, the scripture miracles must
be absolutely rejected, or that there is some evidence against the
scripture miracles, which may be put in competition with that for
them ; neither of which things can be said with any colour of
reason.
Fourthly, This whole matter may be put in another, and,
perhaps, a more natural, as well as a more philosophical light ;
and that especially if the foregoing account of the mind be
allowed. Association, i. e. analogy, perfect and imperfect, is the
only foundation upon which we in fact do, or can, or ought to
assent; and, consequently, a dissonance from analogy, or a
repugnancy thereto, is a necessary foundation for dissent. Now
it happens sometimes that the same thing is supported and
impugned by different analogies; or, if we put repugnance to
analogy as equivalent to miracle, that both a fact and its non
existence imply a miracle ; or, since this cannot be, that that side
alone, which is repugnant to the most and the most perfect
analogies, is miraculous, and therefore incredible. Let us weigh
the scripture miracles in this scale. Now the progress of the
human mind, as may be seen by all the inquiries into it, and
particularly by the history of association, is a thing of a deter
minate nature ; a man's thoughts, words, and actions, are all
generated by something previous; there is an established course
for these things, an analogy, of which every man is a judge from
what he feels in himself, and sees in others: and to suppose any
number of men, in determinate circumstances, to vary from this
general tenor of human nature in like circumstances, is a miracle,
and may be made a miracle of any magnitude, i. e. incredible to
any degree, by increasing the number and magnitude of the
deviations. It is, therefore, a miracle in the human mind, as
great as any can be conceived in the human body, to suppose that
infinite multitudes of Christians, Jews, and heathens, in the
414 THE TRUTH OF
primitive times, should have borne such unquestionable' testi
mony, some expressly, others by indirect circumstances, as
history informs us they did, to the miracles said to be performed
by Christ, and his apostles, upon the human body, unless they
were really performed. In like manner, the reception which the
miracles recorded in the Old Testament met with, is a miracle,
unless those miracles were true. Thus also the very existence of
the books of the Old and New Testaments, of the Jewish and
Christian religions, &c. &c. are miracles, as is abundantly shewn
by the advocates for Christianity, unless we allow the scripture
miracles. Here, then, a man must either deny all analogy and
association, and become an absolute sceptic, or acknowledge that
very strong analogies may sometimes be violated ; i. e. he must
have recourse to something miraculous, to something super
natural, according to his narrow views. The next question then
will be, which of the two opposite miracles will agree best with
all his other notions; whether it be more analogous to the
nature of God, Providence, the allowed history of the world, the
known progress of man in this life, &c. &c. to suppose that God
imparted to certain select persons, of eminent piety, the power of
working miracles ; or to suppose that he confounded the under
standings, affections, and whole train of associations, of entire
nations, so as that men, who, in all other things, seem to have
been conducted in a manner like all other men, should, in
respect of the history of Christ, the prophets and apostles, act in
a manner repugnant to all our ideas and experiences. Now, as
this last supposition cannot be maintained at all upon the footing
of deism, so it would be but just as probable as the first, even
though the objector should deny the possibility of the being of a
God. For the least presumption, that there may be a being of
immense or infinite power, knowledge, and goodness, imme
diately turns the scale in favour of the first supposition.
Fifthly, It is to be considered, That the evidences for the
scripture miracles are many, and most of them independent upon
one another, whereas the dispensation itself is a connected thing,
and the miracles remarkably related to each other. If therefore
only so much as one miracle could be proved to have been really
wrought in confirmation of the Jewish or Christian revelations,
there would be less objection to the supposition of a second ; and,
if this be proved, still less to that of a third, &c. till at last the
reluctance to receive them would quite vanish. (Which indeed
appears to have been the case in the latter part of the primitive
times, when the incontestable evidences for the Christian miracles
had been so much examined and considered, as quite to overcome
this reluctance; and it seems difficult to account for the credulity
in receiving false miracles, which then appeared, but upon sup
position, that many true ones had been wrought.) But it is not
so with the evidences. The greatest part of these have so little
dependence on the rest, as may be seen even from this chapter,
t
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 415
that they must be set aside separately by the objector. Here it
ought to be added, that the objectors have scarce ever attempted
to set aside any part of the evidence, and never succeeded in such
an attempt ; which is of itself a strong argument in favour of the
Scriptures, since this is plainly the most natural and easy way of
disproving a thing that is false. It ought also to be observed
here, that the accomplishment of prophecy, by implying a miracle,
does in like manner overbear the reluctance to receive miracles.
So that if any considerable events, which have already happened
in the world, can be proved to have been foretold in Scripture in
a manner exceeding chance, and human foresight, the objection
to miracles, considered in this proposition, falls to the ground at
once.
Sixthly, If any one should affirm or think, as some persons
seem to do, that a miracle is impossible, let him consider, that
this is denying God's omnipotence, and even maintaining that
man is the supreme agent in the universe.
Prop. XXIX.—The historical Evidences for the Genuineness,
Truth, and Divine Authority of the Scriptures, do not grow
less from Age to Age ; but, on the contrary, it may rather be
presumed that they increase.
It is sometimes alleged as an indirect objection to the
Christian religion, that the evidence for facts done in former
times, and at remote places, decreases with the distance of time
and place ; and, consequently, that a time may come hereafter,
when the evidence for the christian religion will be so incon
siderable as not to claim our assent, even allowing that it does so
now. To this I answer,
First, That printing has so far secured all considerable monu
ments of antiquity, as that no ordinary calamities of war, disso
lutions of governments, &c. can destroy any material evidence
now in being, or render it less probable, in any discernible
degree, to those who shall live rive hundred or a thousand years
hence.
Secondly, That so many new evidences, and coincidences, have
been discovered in favour of the Jewish and Christian histories,
since the three great concurring events of printing, the reforma
tion of religion in these western parts, and the restoration of
letters, as, in some measure, to make up for the evidences lost in
the preceding times ; and, since this improvement of the historical
evidences is likely to continue, there is great reason to hope that
they will grow every day more and more irresistible to all candid,
serious inquirers.
One might also allege, if it were needful, that our proper
business is to weigh carefully the evidence which appears at
present, leaving the care of future ages to Providence ; that the
prophetical evidences are manifestly of an increasing nature, and
416 THE TRUTH OF
so may compensate for a decrease in the historical ones ; and that
though, in a gross way of speaking, the evidences for facts distant
in time and place are weakened by this distance, yet they are
not weakened in an exact proportion in any case, nor in any
proportion in all cases. No one can think a fact relating to the
Turkish empire less probable at London than at Paris, or at fifty
years distance than at forty.
Prop. XXX.—The Prophecies delivered in the Scriptures prove
the Divine Authority of the Scriptures, even previously to the
Consideration of the Genuineness of these Prophecies; but
much more, if that be allowed.
In order to evince this proposition, I will distinguish the
prophecies into four kinds, and shew in what manner it holds in
respect of each kind.
There are then contained in the Scriptures,
First, Prophecies that relate to the state of the nations which
bordered upon the land of Canaan.
Secondly, Those that relate to the political state of the
Israelites and Jews in all ages.
Thirdly, The types and prophecies that relate to the office,
time of appearance, birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension
of the promised Messiah, or Christ.
Fourthly, The prophecies that relate to the state of the chris
tian church, especially in the latter times, and to the second
coming of Christ.
I begin with the prophecies of the first kind, or those which
relate to the state of Amalek, Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre,
Syria, Egypt, Nineveh, Babylon, and the four great successive
empires of the Babylonians, Persians, Greeks, and Romans.
Now here I observe, First, That if we admit both the genuine
ness of these prophecies, and the truth of the common history of
the Scriptures, the very remarkable coincidence of the facts with
the prophecies will put their divine authority out of all doubt;
as I suppose every reader will acknowledge, upon recollecting
the many particular prophecies of this kind, with their accom
plishments, which occur in the Old Testament. Secondly, If
we allow only the genuineness of these prophecies, so great a
part of them may be verified by the remains of ancient pagan
history, as to establish the divine authority of that part. Thus,
if Daniel's prophecies of the image, and four beasts, were written
by him in the time of the Babylonian empire ; if the prophecies
concerning the fall of Nineveh, Babylon, Tyre, &c. be genuine,
&c. ; even profane history will shew, that more than human
foresight was concerned in the delivery of them. Thirdly, That
such of these prophetic events as remain to this day, or were
evidently posterior to the delivery of the prophecies, prove their
divine authority even antecedently to the consideration of their
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 417
genuineness, as is affirmed in the former part of the proposition.
Of this kind are the perpetual slavery of Egypt ; the perpetual
desolation of Tyre and Babylon ; the wild, unconquered state of
the Ishmaelites; the great power and strength of the Roman
empire beyond those of the three foregoing empires ; its division
into ten kingdoms ; its not being subdued by any other, as the
three foregoing were ; the rise of the Mahometan religion, and
Saracenic empire; the limited continuance of this empire; and
the rise and progress of the empire of the Turks. To these we
may add the transactions that passed between the cotemporary
kingdoms of Syria and Egypt, prophesied of in the eleventh
chapter of Daniel. For, since these prophecies reach down to
the times of Antiochus Epiphanes, and the beginning subjection
of these kingdoms to the Roman power, they cannot but have
been delivered prior to the events, as may appear both from the
consideration of the Septuagint translation of the book of Daniel,
and the extinction of the biblical Hebrew as a living language
before that time, even though the book of Daniel should not be
considered as a genuine book; for which suspicion there is, how
ever, no foundation. Lastly, we may remark, that these, and
indeed all the other prophecies, have the same marks of genuine
ness as the rest of the Scriptures, or as any other books ; that
they cannot be separated from the context without the utmost
violence, so that, if this be allowed to be genuine, those must
also; that history and chronology were in so uncertain a state in
ancient times, that the prophecies concerning foreign countries
could not have been adapted to the facts, even after they had
happened, with so much exactness as modern inquirers have
shewn the scripture prophecies to be, by a learned nation, and
much less by the Jews, who were remarkably ignorant of what
passed in foreign countries; and that those prophecies, which
are delivered In the manner of dream and vision, have a very
strong internal evidence for their genuineness, taken from the
nature of dreams, as this is explained in the foregoing part of
this work.
I proceed, in the second place, to shew how the prophecies,
that relate to the political state of the Jews, prove the divine
authority of the Scriptures. And here, passing by many pro
phecies of inferior note, and of a subordinate nature, we may
confine ourselves to the promise, or prophecy, of the land of
Canaan, given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; to the prophecies
concerning the captivity of the ten tribes, and the Babylonish
captivity of the two tribes, with their return after seventy years ;
and to those concerning the much greater captivity and desolation
predicted to fall upon this chosen people, in the 28th chapter
of Deuteronomy, in various places of the prophecies, and by
Christ and his apostles in the New Testament. There was no
natural probability, at the time when these prophecies were
delivered, that any of these events should happen in the manner
E E
418 THE TRUTH OP
in which they were predicted, and have accordingly happened ;
but, in some, the utmost improbability : so that it must appear
to every candid intelligent inquirer, that nothing less than super
natural knowledge could have enabled those who delivered these
predictions, to make them. The divine authority, therefore, of
the books which contain these predictions, is unquestionable,
provided we allow them to be genuine.
Now, besides the fore-mentioned evidences of this, these pro
phecies have some peculiar ones attending them. Thus the mere
departure of the Israelites out of Egypt, in order to go to the
land of Canaan, their burying Jacob in Canaan, and carrying
Joseph's bones with them, plainly imply that the promise of this
land had been given to their ancestors. Thus also the prophecies
relating to the captivities of Israel and Judah, and to their
restorations, make so large a part of the old prophets, that if
they be not genuine, the whole books must be forged ; and the
genuineness of those in the New Testament cannot but be allowed
by all.
I come now, in the third place, to speak of the types and pro
phecies that relate to Christ, the time of his appearance, his
offices, birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension. Many of
these are applied to him by himself, and by the authors of the
books of the New Testament'; but there are also many others,
whose discovery and application are left to the sagacity and
industry of Christians in all ages. This seems to be a field of
great extent, and the evidence arising from it of an increasing
nature. It is probable, that the Christians of the first ages
were acquainted with so many more circumstances relating to
the life, death, &c. of Christ, as on this account to be able to
apply a larger number of types and prophecies to him than we
can. But then this may perhaps be compensated to us by the
daily opening of the Scriptures, and our growing knowledge in
the typical and prophetical nature of them. What is already
discovered of this kind, seems no ways possible to be accounted
for, but from the supposition, that God, by his power and fore
knowledge, so ordered the actions, history, ceremonies, &c. of
the Patriarchs and Jews, and the language of the prophets, as to
make them correspond with Christ, his offices, actions, and suffer
ings. If any one doubt of this, let him attempt to apply the types
and prophecies to any other person. I will just mention four
classes, into which these types and prophecies may be distin
guished, and under each of them a few remarkable instances.
There are then,
First, Prophecies which evidently relate to Christ, and either
to him alone, or to others in an inferior degree only. Such are
that of Jacob concerning Shiloh, of Moses concerning a great
prophet and lawgiver that should come after him, of Isaiah
in his 52d and 53d chapters, of Daniel concerning the Messiah,
many in almost all the prophets concerning a great prince, a
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 419
prince of the house of David, &c. who should make a new
covenant with his people, &c. &c.
Secondly, Typical circumstances in the lives of eminent persons,
as of Isaac, Joseph, Joshua, David, Solomon, Jonah ; and in the com
mon history of the Jewish people, as its being called out of Egypt.
Thirdly, Typical ceremonies in the Jewish worship, as their
sacrifices in general, those of the passover and day of expiation
in particular, &c. To this head we may also refer the typical
nature of the high priesthood, and of the offices of king, priest,
and prophet, amongst the Jews, &c.
Fourthly, The apparently incidental mention of many circum
stances in these things, which yet agree so exactly, and in a way
so much above chance, with Christ, as to make it evident, that
they were originally intended to be applied to him. The not
breaking a bone of the paschal lamb; the mention of renting
the garment, and casting lots upon the vesture, by David ; of
offering gall and vinegar, of looking on Him whom they had
pierced, of the third day upon numerous occasions, &c. are cir
cumstances of this kind.
Now, these types and prophecies afford nearly the same evi
dence, whether we consider the books of the Old Testament as
genuine, or no. For no one calls in question their being extant
as we now have them, small immaterial variations excepted,
before the time of Christ's appearance. Many of them do indeed
require the common history of the New Testament to be allowed
as true. But there are some, those, for instance, which relate to
the humiliation and death of Christ, and the spirituality of his
office, the proofs of whose accomplishment are sufficiently evident
to the whole world, even independently of this.
The fourth branch of the prophetical evidences are those which
relate to the christian church. Here the three following parti
culars deserve attentive consideration.
First, The predictions concerning a new and pure religion,
which was to be set up by the coming of the promised Messiah.
Secondly, A great and general corruption of this religion, which
was to follow in after times.
Thirdly, The recovery of the christian church from this cor
ruption, by great tribulations ; and the final establishment of
true and pure religion, called the kingdom df righteousness, of the
saints, the New Jerusalem, &c.
The predictions of the first and third kinds abound every where
in the old prophets, in the discourses of Christ, and in the writings
of the apostles. Those of the second kind are chiefly remarkable
in Daniel, the Revelation, and the Epistles of St. Paul, St. Peter,
St. John, and St. Jude. In how surprising a manner the events
of the first and second kind have answered to the predictions,
cannot be unknown to any inquisitive serious person, in any
christian country. At the same time it is evident, that the pre
dictions of these things could have no foundation in probable
E E 2
420 THE TRUTH OF
conjectures when they were given. The events of the third class
have not yet received their accomplishment ; but there have been
for some centuries past, and are still, perpetual advances and
preparations made for them ; and it now seems unreasonable to
doubt of the natural probability of their accomplishment, unless
we doubt at the same time of the truth of the religion itself.
If it be true, it must, upon more diligent and impartial examina
tion, both purify itself, and overcome all opposition.
And it is remarkably agreeable to the tenor of Providence in
other things, that that accomplishment of prophecy, which will
hereafter evidence the truth of the christian religion in the most
illustrious manner, should be effected by present evidences of a
less illustrious nature.
Let me add here, that many of the psalms are peculiarly ap
plicable to the restoration and conversion of the Jews, and to the
final prevalence and establishment of the christian church ; i. e.
to the events of the third class.
Prop. XXXI.—The Degree of Obscurity which is found in the
Prophecies of the Scriptures, is not so great as to invalidate
the foregoing evidences for their Divine Authority ; but, on the
contrary, is itself an indirect Testimony in their Favour.
In order to prove this proposition, I observe,
First, That there are a sufficient number of prophecies, whose
interpretation is certain, clear, and precise, to shew that their
agreement with the events predicted is far above the powers of
chance, or human foresight. But for the proof of this point,
which takes in a great compass of literature, I must refer to the
authors who have treated it in detail. And as those who have
examined this point with accuracy and impartiality, do, as I pre
sume, universally agree to the position here laid down, so those
who have not done so, can have no pretence for asserting the
contrary; this being an historical matter, which is to be deter
mined as others of a like kind, viz. by the historical evidences.
The reader may, however, form some judgment, in the gross,
even from the few instances, which are alleged under the last
proposition.
Secondly, That, even in the types and prophecies where inter
preters differ from each other, the differences are often so incon
siderable, and the agreements so general, or else the prophecy so
suited to the several events, to which it is applied by different
interpreters, as to exclude both chance, and human foresight, *. e.
to infer a divine communication. This point requires also a care
ful and candid examination, and then, I think, cannot but be
determined in the affirmative; especially when the very great
number of types and prophecies is taken into consideration.
Fitness in numerous instances is always an evidence of design ;
this is a method of reasoning allowed, explicitly or implicitly, by
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 421
all. And though the fitness may not be perfectly evident or
precise in all, yet, if it be general, and the instances very nume
rous, the evidence of design, arising from it, may amount to any
degree, and fall short of certainty by an imperceptible difference
only. And indeed it is upon these principles alone, that we prove
the divine power, knowledge, and goodness, from the harmonies,
and mutual fitnesses, of visible things, and from final causes, in
asmuch as these harmonies and fitnesses are precisely made out
only in a few instances, if compared to those in which we see no
more than general harmonies, with particular subordinate diffi
culties, and apparent incongruities.
That the reader may see in a stronger light, how fully the
fitnesses, considered in the two foregoing paragraphs, exclude
chance, and infer design, let him try to apply the types and pro
phecies of the four classes before-mentioned to other persons and
events besides those to which christian interpreters have applied
them ; and especially let him consider the types and prophecies
relating to Christ. If design be excluded, these ought to be
equally, or nearly so, applicable to other persons and events ;
which yet, I ' think, no serious considerate person can affirm.
Now, if chance be once excluded, and the necessity of having
recourse to design admitted, we shall be instantly compelled to
acknowledge a contrivance greater than human, from the long
distances of time intervening between the prophecy and the
event, with other such like reasons.
Thirdly, I observe that those types and prophecies, whose in
terpretation is so obscure, that interpreters have not been able
to discover any probable application, cannot any ways invalidate
the evidence arising from the rest. They are analogous to those
parts of the works of nature, whose uses, and subserviency to the
rest, are not yet understood. And as no one calls in question
the evidences of design, which appear in many parts of the human
body, because the uses of others are not yet known ; so the inter
pretations of prophecy, which are clearly or probably made out,
remain the same evidence of design, notwithstanding that unsur-
mountable difficulties may hitherto attend many other parts of
the prophetic writings.
Fourthly, It is predicted in the prophecies, that in the latter
times great multitudes will be converted to the christian faith;
whereas those who preach or prophesy, during the great apostasy,
shall be able to do this only in an obscure, imperfect manner, and
convert but few. Now the past and present obscurity of pro
phecy agrees remarkably with this prediction ; and the opening,
which is already made, since the revival of letters, in applying
the prophecies to the events, seems to presage, that the latter
times are now approaching ; and that by the more full discovery
of the true meaning of the prophetic writings, and of their apt
ness to signify the events predicted, there will be such an acces
sion of evidence to the divine authority of the Scriptures, as none
THE TRUTH OF
but the wilfully ignorant, the profligate, and the obdurate, can
withstand. It is therefore a confirmation of the prophetic writings,
that, by the obscurity of one part of them, a way should be pre
pared for effecting that glorious conversion of all nations, which
is predicted in others, in the time and manner in which it is
predicted.
Prop. XXXII.—It is no Objection to the foregoing Evidences
taken from the Types and Prophecies, that they have double or
even manifold Uses and Applications ; but rather a Confirma
tion of them.
For the foregoing evidences all rest upon this foundation, vis.
that there is an aptness in the types and prophecies to prefigure
the events, greater than can be supposed to result from chance,
or human foresight. When this is evidently made out from the
great number of the types and prophecies, and the degree of
clearness and preciseness of each, the shewing afterwards that
these have other uses and applications, will rather prove the
divine interposition, than exclude it. All the works of God, the
parts of a human body, systems of minerals, plants, and animals,
elementary bodies, planets, fixed stars, &c. have various uses and
subserviencies, in respect of each other; and, if the Scriptures
be the word of Gpd, analogy would lead one to expect something
corresponding hereto in them. When men form designs, they
are indeed obliged to have one thing principally in view, and to
sacrifice subordinate matters to principal ones ; but we must not
carry this prejudice, taken from the narrow limits of our power
and knowledge, to Him who is infinite in them. All his ends
centre in the same point, and are carried to their utmost perfection
by one and the same means. Those laws, ceremonies, and inci
dents, which best suited the Jewish state, and the several indivi
duals of it, were also most apt to prefigure the promised Messiah,
and the state of the christian church, according to the perfect
plan of these things, which, in our way of speaking, existed in
the divine mind from all eternity ; just as that magnitude, situa
tion, &c. of our earth, which best suits its present inhabitants, is
also best suited to all the changes which it must hereafter undergo,
and to all the inhabitants of other planets, if there be any such,
to whom its influence extends.
The following instance may perhaps make this matter more
clearly understood. Suppose a person to have ten numbers, and
as many lines, presented to his view; and to find by mensuration,
that the ten numbers expressed the lengths of the ten lines
respectively. This would make it evident that they were in
tended to do so. Nor would it alter the case, and prove that
the agreement between the numbers and lines arose, without
design, and by chance, as we express it, to allege that these
numbers had some other relations; that, for instance, they pro
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
ceeded in arithmetical or geometrical progression, were the
squares or cubes of other numbers, &c. On the contrary, any
such remarkable property would rather increase than diminish
the evidence of design in the agreement between the numbers
and lines. However, the chief thing to be inquired into would
plainly be, whether the agreement be too great to be accounted
for by chance. If it be, design must be admitted.
Prop. XXXIII.—The Application of the Types and Prophecies
of the Old Testament by the Writers of the New does not
weaken the Authority of these Writers, but rather confirm it.
For the objections, which have been made to the writers of
the New Testament on this head, have been grounded principally
upon a supposition, that when an obvious literal sense of a
passage, or a manifest use of a ceremony, suited to the then
present times, is discovered, all others are excluded, so as to
become misapplications. But this has been shewn in the last
proposition to be a prejudice arising from the narrowness of our
faculties and abilities. Whence it follows, that, if the scripture
types and prophecies be remarkably suited to different things,
which is a point that is abundantly proved by learned men, they
cannot but, in their original design, have various senses and
uses. And it is some confirmation of the divine authority of the
writers of the New Testament, that they write agreeably to this
original design of God.
It may perhaps afford some satisfaction to the reader to make
some conjectures concerning the light in which the types and
prophecies, which have double senses, would appear first to the
ancient Jews, and then to those who lived in the time of our
Saviour. From hence we may judge in what light it is reason
able they should be taken by us.
Let our instance be the second psalm, which we are to suppose
written by David himself, or, at least, in the time of his reign.
It is evident, that there are so many things in this psalm
peculiarly applicable to David's ascent to the throne by God's
special appointment, to the opposition which he met with both in
his own nation and from the neighbouring ones, and to his
victories over all his opposers through the favour of God, that
the Jews of that time could not but consider this psalm as
relating to David. Nay, one can scarce doubt, but the Psalmist
himself, whether he seemed to himself to compose it from his
own proper fund, or to have it dictated immediately by the
Spirit of God, would have David principally in view. At the
same time it is evident, that there are some passages, particularly
the last, Blessed are all they that put their trust in him, i. e. in
the Son, which it would be impious, especially for an Israelite, to
apply to David, and which therefore no allowance for the sub
limity of the eastern poetry could make applicable. It may be
424 THE TRUTH OF
supposed therefore, that many, or most, considered such passages
as having an obscurity in them,' into which they could no ways
penetrate ; whereas a few perhaps, who were peculiarly enlight
ened by God, and who meditated day and night upon the promises
made to their ancestors, particularly upon those to Abraham, would
presume or conjecture that a future person, of a much higher
rank than David, was prefigured thereby. And the case would
be the same in regard to many other psalms : they would appear
to the persons of the then present times both to respect the then
present occurrences, and also to imitate some future more glorious
ones ; and would mutually support this latter interpretation in
each other.
When the prophets appeared in the declension and captivities
of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, the same interpretation
would be strengthened, and the expectations grounded thereon
increased by the plainer and more frequent declarations of the
prophets concerning such a future person, and the happiness
which would attend his coming. The great and various sufferings
of this chosen people, their return and deliverance, their having
their scriptures collected into one view by Ezra, and read in
their synagogues during the interval from Ezra to Christ, the
figurative senses put upon dreams, visions, and parables, in their
Scriptures, &c. would all concur to the same purpose, till at last
it is reasonable to expect, that the Jews in our Saviour's time
would consider many of the institutions and ceremonies of their
law, of the historical events of the psalms appointed for the
temple worship, and of the inspired declarations of the prophets,
as respecting the future times of the Messiah ; and this, in some
cases, to the exclusion of the more obvious senses and uses,
which had already taken place ; being led thereto by the same
narrow-mindedness, which makes some in these days reject the
typical and more remote sense, as soon as they see the literal and
more immediate one. Now, that this was, in fact, the case of the
Jews in the time of Christ, and for some time afterwards, appears
from the New Testament, from the Christian writers of the first
ages, and from the Talmudical ones.
A great part, however, of the scripture types and prophecies
appeared to the Jews to have no relation to their promised
Messiah, till they were interpreted by the event. They expected
a person that should correspond to David and Solomon, two
glorious princes ; but they did not see how Isaac, or the paschal
lamb, should typify him; or that the circumstance of being called
out of Egypt, the appellation of Nazarene, or the parting gar
ments, and casting lots upon a vesture, should contribute to
ascertain him. However, it is certain, that to persons who had
for some time considered their Scriptures in the typical, pro
phetical view mentioned in the last paragraph, every remarkable
circumstance and coincidence of this kind, verified by the event,
would be a new accession of evidence, provided we suppose a
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 425
good foundation for miracles, or prophecies of undoubted import,
to have been laid previously. Nay, such coincidences may be
considered not only as arguments to the Jews of Christ's time,
but as solid arguments in themselves, and that exclusively of the
context. For though each of these coincidences, singly taken,
affords only a low degree of evidence, and some of them scarce
any : yet it is a thing not to be accounted for from chance, that
separate passages in the Old Testament should be applicable to
the circumstances of Christ's life, by an illusion either of words or
sense, in ten or an hundred times a greater number, than to any
other persons, from mere accident. And this holds in a much
higher degree, if the separate passages or circumstances be
subordinate parts of a general type. Thus the parting the gar
ments, the offering vinegar and gall, and the not breaking a bone,
have much more weight, when it is considered, that David, and
the paschal lamb, are types of the Messiah. And when the whole
evidence of this kind, which the industry of pious Christians has
brought to light in the first ages of Christianity, and again
since the revival of letters, is laid together, it appears to me to
be both a full proof of the truth of the christian religion, and a
vindication of the method of arguing from typical and double
senses.
It may be added in favour of typical reasoning, that it cor
responds to the method of reasoning by analogy, which is found
to be of such extensive use in philosophy. A type is indeed
nothing but an analogy, and the scripture types are not only a
key to the Scriptures, but seem also to have contributed to put
into our hands the key of nature, analogy. And this shews us
a new correspondence or analogy between the word and works of
God. However, since certain well-meaning persons seem to be
prejudiced against typical and double senses, I will add some
arguments, whereby the writers of the New Testament may be
defended upon this footing also.
First, then, Since the Jews in the times of the writers of the
New Testament, and consequently these writers themselves, were
much given to typical reasonings, and the application of passages
of the Old Testament in a secondary sense to the times of the
Messiah, this would be a common foundation for these writers,
and those to whom they wrote, to proceed upon, derived from
association, and the acquired nature of their minds. And it is as
easy to conceive, that God should permit them to proceed upon
this foundation for the then present time, though it would not
extend to the world in general, to distant ages, and to persons of
different educations, as that they should be left to the workings
of their own acquired natures in many other respects, notwith
standing the supernatural gifts bestowed upon them in some ;
or as it is to conceive, that God should confer any thing, ex
istence, happiness, &c. in any particular manner or degree.
Secondly, There are some passages in the New Testament
426 THE TRUTH OF
quoted from the Old in the way of mere allusion. This cannot,
1 think, be true of many, where the passage is said to be fulfilled,
without doing violence to the natural sense of the words, and of
the context, in the New Testament : however, where it is, it
entirely removes the objection here considered.
Thirdly, If we should allow, that the writers of the New
Testament were sometimes guilty of erroneous reasonings in
these or other matters, still this does not affect their moral
characters at all ; nor their intellectual ones, which are so
manifest from the general soundness and strength of their other
reasonings, in any such manner as to be of importance in
respect of the evidence for the general truth of the Scriptures,
or for their divine authority in the first and lowest sense above
considered.
Prop. XXXIV.—The moral Characters of Christ, the Prophets,
and Apostles, prove the Truth and Divine Authority of the
Scriptures.
Let us begin with the consideration of the character of Christ.
This, as it may be collected from the plain narrations of the
gospels, is manifestly superior to all other characters, fictitious or
real, whether drawn by historians, orators, or poets. We see in
it the most entire devotion and resignation to God, and the most
ardent and universal love to mankind, joined with the greatest
humility, self-denial, meekness, patience, prudence, and every
other virtue, divine and human. To which we are to add, that,
according to the New Testament, Christ, being the Lord and
creator of all, took upon himself the form of a servant, in order
to save all; that, with this view, he submitted to the helplessness
and infirmities of infancy, to the narrowness of human under
standing, and the perturbations of human affections ; to hunger,
thirst, labour, weariness, poverty, and hardships of various kinds,
to lead a sorrowful, friendless life, to be misunderstood, betrayed,
insulted, and mocked, and at last to be put to a painful and
ignominious death ; also (which deserves our most serious con
sideration, however incongruous to our narrow apprehensions it
may appear at first sight) to undergo the most bitter mental
agony previously. Here then we may make the following ob
servations.
First, That, laying down the present disorders of the moral
world, and the necessity of the love of God and our neighbour,
and of self-annihilation, in order to the pure and ultimate hap
piness of man, there seems to be a necessity also for a suffering
Saviour. At least, one may affirm, that the condescension of
Christ, in leaving the glory which he had with the Father, before
the foundation of the world, and in shewing himself a perfect
pattern of obedience to the will of God, both in doing and
suffering, has a most peculiar tendency to rectify the present
moral depravity of our natures, and to exalt us thereby to pure
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 427
spiritual happiness. Now it is remarkable, that the evangelists
and apostles should have thus hit upon a thing, which all the
great men amongst the ancient heathens missed, and which,
however clear it does and ought now to appear to us, was a great
stumbling-block to them, as well as to the Jews; the first seeking
after wisdom, i. e. human philosophy and eloquence; and the last
requiring a sign, or a glorious temporal Saviour. Nor can this
be accounted for, as it seems to me, but by admitting the reality
of the character, i. e. the divine mission of Christ, and the con
sequent divine inspiration of those who drew it, *. e. the truth
and divine authority of the New Testament.
Secondly, If we allow only the truth of the common history of
the New Testament, or even, without having recourse to it, only
such a part of the character of Christ, as neither ancient nor
modern Jews, heathens, or unbelievers, seem to contest, it will be
difficult to reconcile so great a character, claiming divine autho
rity, either with the moral attributes of God, or indeed with
itself, upon the supposition of the falsehood of that claim. One
can scarce suppose, that God would permit a person apparently
so innocent and excellent, so qualified to impose upon mankind,
to make so impious and audacious a claim without having some
evident mark of imposture set upon him ; nor can it be conceived,
how a person could be apparently so innocent and excellent, and
yet Teally otherwise.
Thirdly, The manner in which the evangelists speak of Christ,
shews that they drew after a real copy, i. e. shews the genuineness
and truth of the gospel history. There are no direct encomiums
upon him, no laboured defences or recommendations. His cha
racter arises from a careful, impartial examination of all that he
said and did, and the evangelists appear to have drawn this
greatest of all characters without any direct design to do it. Nay,
they have recorded some things, such as his being moved with the
passions of human nature, as well as being affected by its infir
mities, which the wisdom of this world would rather have con
cealed. But their view was to shew him to the persons to whom
they preached, as the promised Messiah of the Jews, and the
Saviour of mankind ; and as they had been convinced of this
themselves from his discourses, actions, sufferings, and resur
rection, they thought nothing more was wanting to convince such
others as were serious and impartial, but a simple narrative of
what Jesus said and did. And if we compare the transcendent
greatness of this character with the indirect manner in which
it is delivered, and the illiterateness and low condition of the
evangelists, it will appear impossible that they should have forged
it, that they should not have had a real original before them, so
that nothing was wanting but to record simply and faithfully.
How could mean and illiterate persons excel the greatest geniuses,
ancient and modern, in drawing a character? How came they
to draw it in an indirect manner? This is indeed a strong
428 THE TRUTH OF
evidence of genuineness and truth : but then it is ofso recluse and
subtle a nature, and, agreeably to this, has been so little taken
notice of by the defenders of the christian religion, that one
cannot conceive the evangelists were at all aware that it was an
evidence. The character of Christ, as drawn by them, is therefore
genuine and true ; and consequently proves his divine mission
both by its transcendent excellence, and by his laying claim to
such a mission.
Here it ought to be particularly remarked, that our Saviour's
entire devotion to God, and sufferings for the sake of men in
compliance with his will, is a pitch of perfection, which was never
proposed, or thought of, before his coming (much less attempted
or attained;) unless as far as this is virtually included in the
precepts for loving God above all, and our neighbour as ourselves,
and other equivalent passages in the Old Testament.
We come, in the next place, to consider the characters of the
prophets, apostles, and other eminent persons mentioned in the
Old and New Testaments. Here then we may observe,
First, That the characters of the persons who are said in the
Scriptures to have had divine communications and a divine mission,
are so much superior to the characters which occur in common
life, that we can scarce account for the more eminent single ones,
and therefore much less for so large a succession of them, con
tinued through so many ages, without allowing the divine com
munications and assistance, which they allege. It is true indeed,
that many of these eminent persons had considerable imper
fections, and some of them were guilty of great sins occasionally,
though not habitually. However, I speak here of the balance,
after proper deductions are made, on account of these sins and
imperfections, and leave it to the impartial reader to consider,
whether the prophets, apostles, &c. were not so much superior,
not only to mankind at an average, but even to the best men
amongst the Greeks and Romans, as is not fairly to be accounted
for by the mere powers of human nature.
Secondly, If this should be doubted, their characters are,
however, far too good to allow the supposition of an impious
fraud and imposture ; which must be the case, if they had not
divine authority. We have therefore this double argument for
the divine authority of the Scriptures, if we only allow the
genuineness and truth of its common history.
Thirdly, The characters of the eminent persons mentioned in
the Scriptures arise so much, in an indirect way, from the plain
narrations of facts, their sins and imperfections are so fully set
forth by themselves, or their friends, with their condemnation and
punishment, and the vices of wicked men, and the opposers of
God and themselves, related in so candid a way, with all fit
allowances, that we have in this a remarkable additional evidence
for the truth of this part of the scripture history, besides the
common ones before given, which extend to the whole.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
Fourthly, The eminent persons here considered are sometimes
charged by unbelievers with crimes, where, all circumstances
being duly weighed, they did nothing unjustifiable, nothing more
than it was their indispensable duty to God to do ; as Abraham
in preparing to sacrifice Isaac, Joshua in destroying the Canaan-
ites, &c. We cannot determine an action to be sinful from a
mere, abstracted, general definition of it, as that it is the taking
away the life of a man, &c. but must carefully weigh all cir
cumstances. And indeed there are no maxims in morality that
are quite universal ; they can be no more than general ; and it is
sufficient for human purposes, that they are so much, notwith
standing that the addition of peculiar circumstances makes the
action vary from the general rule. Now the certain command of
God may surely be such a circumstance.
Lastly, The perfection of virtue being of an ever-growing
infinite nature, it is reasonable to expect, that mankind in its
infant state, soon after the flood, and so onwards for some time,
should be more imperfect, and have less of the pure and sublime
precepts concerning indifference to this world, and all present
things, universal unlimited charity, mortification, abstinence,
chastity, &c. delivered to them, than we Christians have, and less
expected from them. And yet, upon the whole, the patriarchs
and eminent persons among the Jews were burning and shining
lights in their respective generations. However, it is also to be
observed here, that the most sublime precepts of the gospel do
appear from the first in the Old Testament, though under a veil ;
and that they were gradually opened more and more under the
later prophets.
Prop. XXXV.—The Excellence of the Doctrine contained in
the Scriptures is an Evidence of their Divine Authority.
This is an argument which has great force, independently of
other considerations. Thus let us suppose, that the author of
the gospel which goes under St. Matthew's name, was not known,
and that it was unsupported by the writers of the primitive
times ; yet such is the unaffected simplicity of the narrations,
the purity of the doctrine, and the sincere piety and goodness of
the sentiments, that it carries its own authority with it. And
the same thing may be said in general of all the books of the
Old and New Testaments ; so that it seems evident to me, that,
if there was no other book in the world besides the Bible, a man
could not reasonably doubt of the truth of revealed religion.
The mouth speaks from the abundance of the heart. Men's
writings and discourses must receive a tincture from their real
thoughts, desires, and designs. It is impossible to play the
hypocrite in every- word and expression. This is a matter of
common daily observation, that cannot be called in question;
and the more any one thinks upon it, or attends to what passes
4.30 THE TRUTH OF
in himself or others, to the history of the human thoughts,
words, and actions, and their necessary mutual connexions, *. e.
to the history of association, the more clearly will he see it. We
may conclude, therefore, even if all other arguments were set
aside, that the authors of the hooks of the Old and New Testa
ments, whoever they were, cannot have made a false claim to
divine authority.
But there is also another method of inferring the divine
authority of the Scriptures from the excellence of the doctrine
contained therein. For the Scriptures contain doctrines con
cerning God, providence, a future state, the duty of man, &c.
far more pure and sublime than can any ways be accounted for
from the natural powers of men, so circumstanced as the sacred
writers were. That the reader may see this in a clearer light,
let him compare the several books of the Old and New Testa
ments with the cotemporary writers amongst the Greeks and
Romans, who could not have less than the natural powers of the
human mind; but might have, over and above, some traditional
hints derived ultimately from revelation. Let him consider
whether it be possible to suppose that Jewish shepherds, fisher
men, &c. should, both before and after the rise of the heathen
philosophy, so far exceed the men of the greatest abilities and
accomplishments in other nations, by any other means than
divine communications. Nay, we may say, that no writers, from
the invention of letters to the present times, are equal to the
penmen of the books of the Old and New Testaments, in true
excellence, utility, and dignity ; which is surely such an internal
criterion of their divine authority as ought not to be resisted.
And, perhaps, it never is resisted by any, who have duly con
sidered these books, and formed their affections and actions
according to the precepts therein delivered.
An objection is sometimes made against the excellence of the
doctrines of the Scriptures, by charging upon them erroneous
doctrines, established by the authority of creeds, councils, and
particular churches. But this is a manner of proceeding highly
unreasonable. The unbeliever, who pays so little regard to the
opinions of others, as to reject what all churches receive, the
divine mission of Christ, and the evidences for the truth of the
Scriptures, ought not at other times to suppose the churches,
much less any particular one, better able to judge of the doc
trine ; but should in the latter case, as well as the first, examine
for himself; or if he will take the doctrine upon trust, he ought
much rather to take the evidence so.
If it can be shewn, either that the true doctrine of the Scrip
tures differs from that which is commonly received, or that
reason teaches something different from what is commonly sup
posed, or, lastly, that we are insufficient judges what are the
real doctrines of Scripture, or reason, or both, and, consequently,
that we ought to wait with patience for farther light, all objec
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
tions of this kind fall to the ground. One may also add, that the
same arguments which prove a doctrine to be very absurd, prove
also, for the most part, that it is not the sense of the passage ;
and that this is a method of reasoning always allowed in inter
preting profane authors.
Prop. XXXVI.—The many and great Advantages which have
accrued to the Worldfrom the Patriarchal, Judaical, and Chris
tian Revelations, prove the Divine Authority of the Scriptures.
These advantages are of two sorts, relating respectively to
the knowledge and practice of religion. I begin with the first.
Now it is very evident, that the christian revelation has diffused
a much more pure and perfect knowledge of what is called
natural religion, over a great part of the world, viz. wherever the
profession either of Christianity or Mahometanism prevails. And
the same thing will appear, in respect of the Judaical and patri
archal revelations, to those who are acquainted with ancient
history. It will be found very difficult, by such persons, to
account even for the pagan religions, without recurring to such
patriarchal communications with God as are mentioned in the
Pentateuch, and to the more full revelations made to the Jews.
So that one is led to believe, that all that is good in any pagan
or false religion is of divine original ; all that is erroneous and
corrupt, the offspring of vanity, weakness, and wickedness of
men; and that, properly speaking, we have no reason from
history to suppose, that there ever was any such thing as mere
natural religion, i. e. any true religion, which men discovered to
themselves by the mere light of nature. These positions seem
to follow from inquiries into the antiquities of the heathen
world, and of their religions. The heathen religions all appear
to be of a derivative nature ; each circumstance in the inquiry
confirms the scriptural accounts of things, and sends us to the
revelations expressly mentioned, or indirectly implied, in the
Old Testament, for the real original of the pagan religions in
their simple state. This opinion receives great light and con
firmation from Sir Isaac Newton's Chronology.
It appears also very probable to me, that a careful examina
tion of the powers of the human understanding would confirm
the same position ; and that admitting the novelty of the present
world, there is no way of accounting for the rise and progress of
religious knowledge, as it has taken place in fact, without having
recourse to divine revelation. If we admit the patriarchal,
Judaical, 'and christian revelations, the progress of natural re
ligion, and of all the false pretences to revelation, will fairly
arise (at least, appear possible in all cases, and probable in most)
from the circumstance of things, and the powers of human
nature ; and the foregoing doctrine of association will cast
some light upon the subject. If we deny the truth of these
THE TRUTH OF
revelations, and suppose the Scriptures to be false, we shall cast
utter confusion upon the inquiry, and human faculties will be
found far unequal to the task assigned to them.
Secondly, If we consider the practice of true religion, the good
effects of revelation are still more evident. Every man who
believes must find himself either excited to good, or deterred
from evil, in many instances, by that belief; notwithstanding
that there may be many other instances, in which religious
motives are too weak to restrain violent and corrupt inclinations.
The same observations occur daily with regard to others, in
various ways and degrees. And it is by no means conclusive
against this obvious argument for the good effects of revelation
upon the morals of mankind, to allege that the world is not
better now than before the coming of Christ. This is a point
which cannot be determined by any kind of estimation in our
power to make ; and, if it could, we do not know what circum
stances would have made the world much worse than it is, had
not Christianity interposed. However, it does appear to me
very probable, to say the least, that Jews, and Christians, not
withstanding all their vices and corruptions, have, upon the
whole, been always better than heathens and unbelievers. It
seems to me also, that as the knowledge of true, pure, and
perfect religion is advanced and diffused more and more every
day, so the practice of it corresponds thereto: but then this,
from the nature of the thing, is a fact of a less obvious kind;
however, if it be true, it will become manifest in due time. Let
us suppose a person to maintain that civil government, the arts of
life, medicines, &c. have never been of use to mankind, because
it does not appear, from any certain calculation, that the sum
total of health and happiness is greater among the polite nations
than among the barbarous ones. Would it not be thought a
sufficient answer to this, to appeal to the obvious good effects of
these things in innumerable instances, without entering into a
calculation impossible to be made ? However, it does here also
appear, that, as far as we are able to judge, civilized countries
are, upon the whole, in a more happy state than barbarous ones,
in all these respects.
Now as the divine original of revelation may be directly con
cluded from its being the sole fountain of all religious knowledge,
if that can be proved ; so it will follow in an indirect way, if we
suppose that revelation has only promoted the knowledge and
practice of true religion. It is not likely that folly or deceit of
any kind should be eminently serviceable in the advancement of
wisdom and virtue. Every tree must produce its proper fruit.
Enthusiasm and imposture cannot contribute to make meu
prudent, peaceable and moderate, disinterested and sincere.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 433
Prop. XXXVII.— The wonderful Nature, and superior Excel
lence, of the Attempt made by Christ and his Apostles, are
Evidences of their Divine Authority.
This attempt was that of reforming all mankind, and making
them happy in a future state. And, when we consider first the
attempt itself, and then the assurance of success in it, which
appears in all their words and actions, by ways both direct and
indirect, there arises from thence alone a strong presumption in
their favour, as well as in favour of the authors of the books of
the Old Testament, who have concurred in the same attempt,
though less informed of the true nature and full extent of it.
For ideas and purposes of this kind could scarce enter into the
hearts of weak or wicked men ; much less could such persons
enter upon and prosecute so great an undertaking with such
prudence, integrity, and constancy, or form such right judgments
both of the opposition they should meet with, and of the preva
lence of their own endeavours, and those of their successors, over
this opposition. Nay, one may say, that nothing less than super
natural assistance could qualify them for these purposes. No
design of this kind was ever formed, or thought of, till the
coming of Christ ; and the pretences of enthusiasts and impostors
to the same commission since have all been copied from Christ,
as being necessary to their succeeding in any measure, since his
coming. If it be supposed to be the true interpretation and
meaning of the Scriptures, to publish final redemption, conver
sion, and salvation to all mankind, even the most wicked, in
some distant future state, this will add great force to the present
argument.
Prop. XXXVIII.—The Manner in which the Love of God, and
of our Neighbour, is taught and inculcated in the Scriptures, is
an Evidence of their Divine Authority.
For it appears, that the Scriptures do virtually include, or
even expressly assert, all that the modern philosophy has dis
covered or verified concerning these important subjects; which
degree of illumination, as it can with no plausibility be accounted
for in illiterate men in the time of Augustus from natural causes,
so much less can it in the preceding times from Christ up to
Moses. This proposition is included in the thirty-fifth : however,
the subject of it is of so much importance, as to deserve a separate
place.
Here then, First, We may observe, that Moses commands the
Israelites to love God with all the heart, and soul, and might,
whereas they are to love their neighbours only as themselves.
Now, though this infinite superiority of the love due to God over
that due to our neighbour be perfectly agreeable to that infinite
majesty and goodness of God, and nothingness of the creatures,
F F
434- THE TRUTH OF
which every new discovery in philosophy now opens to view, yet
it was so little known many ages after Moses amongst the wisest
of the Greeks and Romans, that we cannot ascribe it to his mere
natural sagacity. The natural equality of all men, and the self-
annihilation, implied in the precept of loving all our brethren
as well as ourselves, are also the genuine dictates of true
philosophy.
Secondly, In order to shew the divine authority of the Scrip
tures, from the manner in which the love of God is taught in
them, we must consider not only the direct precepts concerning
this love, but also all those concerning hope, trust, fear, thank
fulness, delight, &c. for all these concur to inculcate and beget
in us the love of God. The same may be said of all the scrip
tural descriptions of God, and his attributes, and of the addresses
of good men to him, which are there recorded. God is declared
in the Scriptures to be light, love, goodness, the source of all
happiness and perfection, the father and protector of all, &c.
And the eminent persons who composed the psalms, and other
such like addresses to God, appear to have devoted themselves
entirely to him. Now, when we reflect, that there is scarce any
thing of this kind in the writings of the philosophers who pre
ceded Christ, and nothing comparable to the scripture expressions
even in those who came after him ; when we farther reflect, that
the writings of the ablest and best men of the present times
contain nothing excellent of the devotional kind, but what may
be found in the Scriptures, and even in the Old Testament,
there seems to be a necessity for having recourse to divine in
spiration, as the original source of this great degree of illumina
tion in the patriarchs, prophets, and apostles.
Thirdly, Good persons are, in the Scriptures, styled children
of God; members of Christ; partakers of the divine nature; one
with God and Christ, as Christ is with God; members of each
other; heirs of God, and co-heirs of Christ ; heirs ofall things, &c.
expressions which have the strongest tendency to raise in us an
unbounded love to God, and an equal one to our neighbour, and
which include and convey the most exalted, and at the same time
the most solid conceptions, of this great system of things. And
if We suppose that these high titles and privileges are, according
to the Scriptures, to be hereafter extended to all mankind, the
divine original of the Scriptures will receive a new accession of
evidence on this account.
Prop. XXXIX.—The Doctrine of the necessary Subserviency of
Pain to Pleasure, unfolded in the Scriptures, is an Evidence
of their Divine Authority.
The Scriptures give frequent and strong intimations, that the
ultimate happiness which they promise, is not to be obtained in
this our degenerate state, but by a previous passage through pain.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 435
Blessed are they that mourn. We must rejoice in tribulation.
The palm-bearing multitude comes out ofgreat tribulation. The
Captain of our salvation, and therefore all his soldiers, must be
made perfect through sufferings. Without shedding of blood there
is no remission of sins. It is good for us to be afflicted, that we
may learn to keep the commandments of God. The Jews must be
captivated, and undergo the severest afflictions, before they can
be made happy finally, as the people of God. Man must eat his
bread in the sweat of his brow all his life, and return to dust at
last ; and yet still the seed of the woman shall bruise the serpent's
head, and gain re-admission to the Tree of Life, whose leaves
shall heal the nations, &c. &c. Now there is a surprising cor
respondence between such expressions as these, and many modern
discoveries, which shew that pain is, in general, introductory and
subservient to pleasure ; and particularly that such is the present
frame of our natures, and constitution of the external world,
which affects our organs, that we cannot be delivered from the
sensuality and selfishness, that seize upon us at our first entrance
into life, and advanced to spirituality and disinterestedness, to
the love of God and our neighbour, we cannot have our wills
broken, and our faculties exalted and purified, so as to relish
happiness wherever we see it, but by the perpetual correction
and reformation of our judgments and desires from painful
impressions and associations. And all philosophical inquiries of
this kind seem to cast a peculiar light and evidence upon the scrip
ture expressions before mentioned, and to make their accuracy,
and congruity with experience and observation, be much more
plainly seen and felt.
Prop. XL.—The mutual Instrumentality ofBeings to each others
Happiness and Misery, unfolded in the Scriptures, is an Argu
ment of their Divine Authority.
To this head is to be referred all that the Scriptures deliver
concerning good and evil angels ; Christ, the Lord of all, becoming
the Redeemer of all; Adam's injuring all his posterity through
his frailty; Abraham's becoming the father of the faithful, and
all nations being blessed through him ; the Jews being the keepers
of the oracles of God, and of the true religion; tyrants being
scourges in the hand of God; the fulness of the Gentiles being
the occasion of the final restoration of the Jews; and, in general,
the doctrine that God prepares and disposes of every thing so as
that nothing is for itself alone, but every person and nation has
various relations to others, co-operates with them through Christ,
who is the Head, and through whom the whole body being fitly
joined together, and compacted by that which every joint supplieth,
increaseth and edifieth itself in love, till all things, both in heaven
and earth, arrive, in their several orders, to the measure of the
stature of the fulness of Christ. Now whoever compares these
F f 2
436 THE TRUTH OF
scripture expressions and doctrines with the various mutual rela
tions, subserviencies, and uses of the parts of the external world,
heavenly bodies, meteors, elements, animals, plants, and minerals,
to each other, cannot help seeing a wonderful analogy between
the works of God and the Scriptures, so wonderful as justly to
entitle the last to the appellation of the word of God.
And thus we may perceive, that the scripture account of the
fall of man, his redemption by Christ, and the influences exerted
upon him by good and evil angels, is so far from affording an
objection against the christian religion, that it is a considerable
evidence for it, when viewed in a truly philosophical light. God
works in every thing by means, by those which, according to our
present language and short-sightedness, are termed bad and unfit,
as well as by the good and evidently fit ones; and all these means
require a definite time, before they can accomplish their respective
ends. This occurs to daily observation in the course and con
stitution of nature. And the scripture doctrines concerning the
fall, the redemption by Christ, and the influences of good and
evil angels, are only such intimations concerning the principal
invisible means that lead man to his ultimate end, happiness in
being united to God, as accelerate him in his progress thither.
According to the Scriptures, Adam hurts all, through frailty;
Christ saves all, from his love and compassion to all; evil angels
tempt, through malice; and good ones assist and defend, in
obedience to the will of God, and his original and ultimate design
of making all happy. These things are indeed clothed in a con
siderable variety of expressions, suited to our present ways of
acting, conceiving, and speaking, (which ways are, however, all
of divine original, God having taught mankind, in the patriarchal
times, the language, as one may say, in which he spake to them
then and afterwards) ; but these expressions can have no greater
real import, than that of signifying to us the means made use of
by God ; he being, according to the Scriptures, as well as reason,
the one only real agent in all the transactions that relate to man,
to angels, &c. And to object to the method of producing happi
ness by this or that means, because of the time required to
accomplish the end, of the mixture of evil, &c. is to require, that
all God's creatures should at once be created infinitely happy, or
rather have existed so from all eternity, i. e. should be godt, and
not creatures.
Prop. XLL—The Divine Authority of the Scriptures may be
inferred from the superior Wisdom of the Jewish Laws con
sidered in a political Light ; and from the exquisite Workman
ship shewn in the Tabernacle and Temple.
All these were originals amongst the Jews, and some of them
were copied partially and imperfectly by ancient heathen nations.
They seem also to imply a knowledge superior to the respective
.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 437
times. And I believe, that profane history gives sufficient attesta
tion to these positions. However, it is certain from Scripture,
that Moses received the whole body of his laws, also the pattern
of the Tabernacle, and David the pattern of the Temple, from
God ; and that Bezaleel was inspired by God for the workman
ship of the Tabernacle. Which things, being laid down as a sure
foundation, may encourage learned men to inquire into the evi
dences from profane history, that the knowledge and skill to be
found amongst the Jews were superior to those of other nations
at the same period of time, i. e. were supernatural.
Prop. XLII.—The Want of Universality in the Publication of
Revealed Religion is no Objection to it ; but, on the contrary,
the Time and Manner in which the Scriptures were written,
and delivered to the world, are Arguments for their Divine
Authority.
Here I observe,
First, That objections of this kind ought never to be admitted
against historical evidence; and in fact, are not, upon other
subjects. It is evident, as was observed in the beginning of this
chapter, that to allow the truth of the scripture history, is to
allow the truth of the christian religion. Now it is very foreign
to the purpose of an inquiry into the truth of the scripture
history, to allege that it has not been made known to all man
kind, in all ages, and under all circumstances of each individual.
It must require much abstracted and subtle reasoning, and such
as can never be put in competition with plain historical evidence,
to connect this objection with the proposition objected to. This
is therefore, at least, a strong presumption against the validity of
such an objection.
Secondly, This objection seems to derive its whole force from
such positions, relating to the moral attributes of God, as make
it necessary for us to suppose, either that he deals with all his
creatures at present in an equally favourable manner, or, at least,
that nothing shall be ultimately wanting to their happiness.
Now the first supposition appears, upon the most transient view
which we take of things, to be utterly false. There are differ
ences of all degrees at present, in respect of all the good things
which God has given us to enjoy ; and therefore may be in the
best of all good things, revealed religion. And indeed, if it was
otherwise in respect of revealed religion, one strong argument in
its favour would be wanting, viz. its analogy with the course of
nature. The moral attributes of God are to be deduced from
observations made upon the course of nature. If therefore the
tenor of revelation be agreeable to that of nature, it must be so
to the moral attributes of God. But if any one suppose, in the
second place, that, notwithstanding present and apparent differ
ences in the circumstances of God's creatures, there are no real
438 THE TRUTH OF
and ultimate ones ; at least, that the balance will ultimately be
in favour of each individual finitely, or perhaps infinitely; I answer,
that this supposition is as agreeable to revelation as to natural
reason ; that there are as probable evidences for it in the word of
God, as in his works, there being no acceptance of persons with
God, no difference between the Jew and the Gentile, according to
the Scriptures ; and that we may infer as strongly from the Scrip
tures that Christ will save all, as it can be inferred from philosophy
that all will be made happy in any way ; both which positions I
shall endeavour to establish hereafter, with the mutual illustra
tions and confirmations which these glorious doctrines of natural
and revealed religion afford to each other. And the gradual
diffusion of the patriarchal, Judaical, and christian revelations,
compared with the prophecies relating to the future kingdom of
Christ, and with the present circumstances of things, will afford
great satisfaction and joy to every pious, benevolent person, who
inquires into this subject. These considerations will incline him
to believe, that the gospel will, sooner or later, be preached to
every creature in heaven, in earth, under the earth, &c. and not
only preached, but received, obeyed, and made the means of
unspeakable happiness to them. And thus this objection will be
removed not only in speculation, and according to reason, but in
fact, from the present unhappy objectors ; and they will look on
Him whom they have pierced.
Thirdly, Having shewn that a gradual and partial promulgation
is not inconsistent with the supposition «of a true revelation, we
may farther affirm, that the particular time and manner, in which
the several patriarchal, Judaical, and christian revelations have
been published in the world, are even arguments in their favour.
This subject has been well handled by various learned men, par
ticularly by Mr. Arch. Law, in his Considerations on the State
of the World, &c. These gentlemen have shewn, that, cateris
manentibus, which is in these things always to be previously
allowed, the dispensations recorded in the Scriptures have been,
as far as we can judge, perfectly suited to the states of the world
at the times when these dispensations were made respectively ;
*. e. to the improvement of mankind in knowledge speculative and
practical, to their wants, and to their ability to profit in moral
accomplishments; so that if we suppose either much more, or
much less, light to have been afforded to mankind in a super
natural way {cceteris manentibus ; and particularly their voluntary
powers over their affections and actions, or free-will, in the prac
tical sense, remaining the same), their advancement in moral
perfection, in voluntary obedience to and pure love of God,
would probably have been less : which suitableness of each revela
tion to the time when it was made, and to the production of the
maximum of moral perfection, is an argument for the system of
revelation, of the same kind with those for the goodness of God,
which are drawn from the mutual fitnesses of the finite and
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 430
imperfect parts of the natural world to each other, and to the
production of the maximum, or greatest possible quantity, of
happiness.
Prop. XLIII.—Hie Exclusion of all great Degrees of Enthu
siasm and Imposture from the Characters of Christ, the Pro
phets, and Apostles, prove their Divine Authority.
That Christ, the prophets, and apostles, cannot be charged
with any great degrees of enthusiasm or imposture, seems allowed
by many unbelievers; and is evident from the first view of their
discourses and writings, and of history sacred and profane. We
might say, that much more is evident. However, for the present,
let us only suppose all great degrees of enthusiasm and imposture
excluded, and inquire how far their divine mission may be inferred
from that supposition.
First, then, If all great degrees of enthusiasm be excluded,
Christ, the prophets, and apostles, must know whether or no
they were under the influence of the Divine Spirit, so as to
prophesy, speak, and interpret languages, which they had never
learnt, and work miracles. Indeed, to suppose them not capable
of distinguishing these powers in themselves and each other, is to
charge them with downright madness.
Secondly, Since then they claimed these powers every where,
as the seal of their commission from God ; if they had them not,
i. e. if they had not divine authority, they must be impostors,
and endeavour to deceive the world knowingly and deliberately.
And this imposture, whether we consider the affront offered to
God, or the injury done to mankind, or its duration, its auda
ciousness, &c. would be the deepest and blackest that has ever
appeared in the world. It is therefore excluded by supposition ;
and consequently, since a less degree will not account for a false
claim to a divine authority, we must allow that Christ, the pro
phets, and apostles, made a true one.
Thirdly, Let it be observed, that though cautious unbelievers
do not venture to charge Christ, the prophets, and apostles, either
with gross enthusiasm, or abandoned imposture, in express terms ;
yet they find themselves obliged to insinuate both in all their
attacks upon revealed religion : which is, in effect, to acknow
ledge the truth of the present proposition ; for it is the same
thing as to acknowledge that both the charge of gross enthusiasm,
and that of abandoned imposture, are necessary to support the
objections against revealed religion. Now, as neither charge,
singly taken, can be maintained, so both together are inconsistent.
Gross enthusiasm does not admit that constant caution, and cool
dispassionate cunning, which abandoned imposture supposes and
requires in order to succeed.
440 THE TRUTH OF
Prop. XLIV.—The Reception which Christ, his Forerunners,
and Followers, with their Doctrines, have met with in all ages,
is an Argument of their Divine Authority.
This evidence does, as it were, embrace all the others, and
give a particular force to them. For it will be a strong con
firmation of all the evidences for the Jewish and Christian reli
gions, if we can shew that the persons to whom they have been
offered, have been influenced by them as much as there was
reason to expect, admitting them to be true ; and far more than
could be expected, on supposition that they were false. The
most illustrious instance of this, is the victory which the christian
miracles and doctrines, with the sufferings of our Saviour, and
his followers, gained over the whole powers, first, of the Jewish
state, and then of the Roman empire, in the primitive times.
For here all ranks and kinds of men, princes, priests, Jewish and
heathen philosophers, populace, with all "their associated pre
judices from custom and education, with all their corrupt passions
and lusts, with all the external advantages of learning, power,
riches, honour, and, in short, with every thing but truth, en
deavoured to suppress the progress that Christ's religion made
every day in the world, but were unable to do it. Yet still the
evidence was but of a limited nature; it required to be set forth,
attested, and explained, by the preacher, and to be attended to,
and reflected upon, with some degree of impartiality, by the
hearer : and therefore, though the progress of it was quick,
and the effect general, yet they were not instantaneous and
universal. However, it is very evident, that any fraud, or false
pretence, must soon have yielded to so great an opposition so
circumstanced.
The efficacy which the christian doctrine then had in reforming
the lives of many thousands, is here to be considered as a prin
cipal branch of this argument, it being evidently the most difficult
of all things to convert men from vicious habits to virtuous ones,
as every one may judge from what he feels in himself, as well as
from what he sees in others ; and whatever does this, cannot, as
it seems to me, but come from God. The false religions, and
various corruptions of the true, which have from time to time
appeared in the world, have been enabled to do this in the
imperfect manner in which they have done it, merely, as it seems
to me, from that mixture of important truths, and good motives,
which they have borrowed from real revelations, Patriarchal,
Judaical, and Christian.
In like manner, as the propagation of Christianity, upon its
first appearance in the world, evinces its divine original, so does
the progress it has since made, and the reception which it meets
with at present, amongst the several ranks and orders of men.
The detail of this would run out to a great length. It may,
however, be of some use just to observe, that, notwithstanding
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 441
the great prevalence of infidelity in the present times, it is seldom
found to consist with an accurate knowledge of ancient history,
sacred and profane, and never with an exalted piety and devotion
to God.
And it is as peculiarly for the credit of Christianity, that it
should now be supported by the learned, as that it was first
propagated by the unlearned ; and an incontestable evidence for
it, as appears to me, that it has been universally embraced by all
eminently pious persons, to whom it has been made known in a
proper manner.
The analogous observations may be made upon the reception
which the Jewish religion met with both from the Jews them
selves, and from the neighbouring nations. It seems impossible
for Moses to have delivered the Jews from their oppression in
Egypt, and afterwards to have subjected them to his laws, for
Joshua to have conquered Canaan, for the religion to have sub
sisted in the succeeding times of the judges and kings, for the
priests and prophets to have maintained their authority, for the
people to have returned, after their captivity, with their religion
in an uncorrupted state, and to have supported it and themselves
against the kings of Syria and Egypt, and the power of the
Romans, and to remain at this day a separate people, dispersed
all over the world, according to the prophecies, unless the mira
culous part of the history of the Old Testament be allowed to be
true, as well as the other.
Prop. XLV. — The Reception which false Religions have
met with in the World, are Arguments of the Truth of the
Christian.
I will here make a few short remarks,
First, Upon the polytheistical, idolatrous religions of the
ancient world.
Secondly, Upon the religious institutions of Zoroaster.
Thirdly, Upon the imposture of Mahomet.
Fourthly, Upon the enthusiastical sects, which have appeared
from time to time amongst Christians.
All these seem to have met with such success, as might be
expected from the mixture of truth and falsehood in them,
compared with the then circumstances of things. They are
therefore indirect evidences for the truth of the christian reli
gion, since this has met with such success, as cannot be recon
ciled to the circumstances of things, unless we suppose it true.
And, first, The ancient pagan religions seem evidently to be
the degenerated offspring of the patriarchal revelations; and so
far to have been true, as they taught a God, a Providence, a
future state, supernatural communications made to particular
persons, especially in the infancy of the world, the present cor
ruption of man, and his deviation from a pure and perfect way,
the hopes of a pardon, a mediatorial power, the duties of sacrifice,
THE TRUTH OF
prayer, and praise, and the virtues of prudence, temperance,
justice, and fortitude. They were false, as they mixed and
polluted these important truths with numberless fables, super
stitions, and impieties. That degree of truth, and moral excel
lence, which remained in them, was a principal cause of their
success, and easy propagation among the people; for their moral
sense would direct them to approve and receive what was fit and
useful. And, had the people of those times penetrated sufficiently
into the powers of the human mind, they might have concluded,
that religious truths could not be of human invention. However,
as the impressions which the historical and prophetical evidences
for the patriarchal revelations had made upon mankind, were not
yet obliterated; they believed, upon the authority of tradition,
that all important knowledge, especially in sacred matters, was of
divine original.
As to the miracles said to be wrought upon certain occasions
in pagan nations, we may make these two remarks: First, That
the evidence for these is far inferior to that for the Jewish and
christian miracles; so that these may be true, though those be
false. Secondly, That we are not sufficiently informed of the
ways of Providence, to infer that God did not permit, or cause,
some miracles to be wrought, even in times and places, where
great corruption prevailed. Divine communications and miracles
were probably most common soon after the flood, in the infancy
of mankind : afterwards, as they advanced towards adult age,
these supernatural interpositions grew more rare (unless upon
singular occasions, as upon the publication of the law by Moses,
and of the gospel by Christ ; at which times, many and great
miracles succeeded each other at short intervals, in order to
command awe, attention, and belief), and it may be, that they
ceased in the pagan world for some ages before Christ : or, it
may be otherwise ; and that, in rare and extraordinary cases, the.
hand of God appeared in a miraculous manner. Analogy favours
the last opinion, as it seems to me ; which also appears to be
more countenanced by history than the contrary ones ; and yet
the pretences to miracles amongst the pagans were undoubtedly
false, in the general.
I come, in the second place, to consider the religious institutions
of Zoroaster. We have not so full and authentic an history of
these, as to compare them properly with the Jewish or Christian
revelations. If we suppose, that Zoroaster and Hystaspes set up
the worship of one God, in a simple manner, teaching and incul
cating the practice of virtue at the same time, this religion may
be said to have considerable moral evidence in its favour. If,
farther, we suppose it to be in part derived, either from the
descendants of Abraham by Keturah, called Brachmans from
him, or from that knowledge of the true God, which the ten
tribes, and the Jews, had then communicated to that part of the
world, it will become an evidence for the Jewish religion.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 443
Thirdly, The religion of Mahomet allows and presupposes the
truth of the Jewish and Christian. Its rapid propagation was
owing chiefly to the mixture of political interests. That part
of its doctrines which is good, is manifestly taken from the
Scriptures ; and this contributed to its success. However, a
comparison of Mahometism with Christianity, in the several
particulars of each, seems to shew, that whenever a strict exami
nation is made into the history of Mahometism by its professors,
the falsehood of it will quickly be made evident to them. It
could not stand such a trial as Christianity has, since the revival
of learning in these western parts.
It seems easy to apply what has been delivered in the three
last paragraphs to the analogous particulars of the religion of
Confucius, and of other religions found in the East and West
Indies, as far as their histories are sufficiently full and authentic
for that purpose.
Lastly, One may make the following remarks, with respect to
the several enthusiastic sects, that arise from time to time amongst
Christians.
First, That their pretences to miracles and prophecies have,
in general, been detected and exposed, after some examination
and inquiry ; unless the sect has begun to decline from other
causes, before a strict examination became necessary.
Secondly, That their pretended miracles were not of that evi
dent kind, nor done in the same open manner, &c. as the Jewish
and Christian miracles.
Thirdly, That these pretended miracles have not produced
lasting effects upon the minds of men, like the Jewish and Chris
tian. Now, though a religion may succeed for a time without
true miracles, yet it seems hard to believe, that any should fail
with them.
Fourthly, The success of sects has, in general, been owing to
their making greater pretences to purity, and gospel perfection,
than established churches, and to their both teaching and prac
tising some necessary duties, which established churches have too
much neglected in the corrupted state of Christianity. And in
this light they have been true in part, and have done the most
magnified some great truth, not above its real value, but above
the value which other sects have set upon it ; and by this means
each important religious truth has had the advantage of being set
in a full light by some party or other, though too much neglected
by the rest. And the true catholic church and communion of
saints unites all these sects, by taking what is right from each,
and leaving the errors, falsehoods, and corruptions of each to
combat and destroy one another.
And it may be, that mankind will be able in future generations
to see, how every other sect, and pretence to revelation, besides
those of enthusiastic Christians, in whatever age or country it
important service Christians has
444 THE TRUTH OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
has appeared, has been, all other things remaining the same,
suited, in the best possible manner, both to particular and general
purposes ; and that each has prepared the way, in its proper
place, for that more complete state predicted in the Scriptures
under the titles of the kingdom of heaven and of righteousness,
of the New Jerusalem, &c. Even infidelity, atheism, and scep
ticism, have their use. The vessels of wrath are still vessels
belonging to the Maker and Lord of all things, and answering his
infinitely beneficent purposes. Offences must come, though woe
be to those ky whom they come! Each sect, and pretence, and
objection, has given, or will give, way in its time. The true and
pure religion of Christ alone grows more evident and powerful
from every attack that is made upon it, and converts the bitterness
and poison of its adversaries into nourishment for itself, and an
universal remedy for the pains and sorrows of a miserable,
degenerate world.
CHAP. III.
THE RULE OF LIFE.
Having delivered, in the two foregoing chapters, the respec
tive evidences for natural and revealed religion, I proceed now to
inquire into the Rule of Life enjoined by them. This, it is
evident, must be compliance with the will of God. Both na-
natural and revealed religion teach this at first view ; which is
also the immediate dictate of rational self-interest. It is farther
evident, that the love of God, and of our neighbour, with mode
ration in all selfish enjoyments, must be the will of Him, who is
infinitely benevolent, i. e. in the popular phrase, infinitely holy,
merciful, just, and true, who has sent us into this world to make
ourselves and others happy. This we may learn from natural
religion, and the Scriptures abound every where with the same
precepts. I propose, therefore, in this chapter, to enter into the
detail of these precepts, and to apply them to the several parti
cular circumstances of human life, digesting what I have to offer,
under the heads of the seven kinds of pleasure and pain, whose
history I have given in the foregoing part of this work. But
first I will, in the four propositions that follow next, premise an
argument in favour of virtue, which ought to have some weight,
as it seems to me, even with an atheist or sceptic.
SECT. T.
THE RULE OF LIFE, AS DEDUCIBLE FROM THE PRACTICE AND
OPINIONS OF MANKIND.
Prop. XLVI.—The Practice of Mankind affords a Direction,
which, though an imperfect one, may, however, be of some Use
in our Inquiry after the Mule of Life.
This follows, First, Because, in all the subordinate arts of life,
we always pay a great regard to the common judgment, practice,
44G THE RULE OF LIFE.
and experience of mankind, taken at an average, as one may
say. And this is thought to be more particularly requisite for
those persons to do, who are ignorant and novices in respect of
these arts. Now what is reasonable in the inferior arts, must
also be_r.easonable in "The art of arts, that of living happily, of
attaining our summum bonum, or greatest possible happiness,
here and hereafter, if there be an hereafter ; which there may be,
even consistently with atheism and scepticism. There seems,
therefore, a peculiar obligation, from self-interest at least, upon
atheists and sceptics, since they must live here upon the same
terms as other men, and stand the same chance for an hereafter,
to pay some deference to the practice of others, considered as an
hint and caution how to secure their own interest.
Secondly, Mankind are evidently endued with a desire of
attaining happiness, and avoiding misery ; and arrive at a com
petent knowledge of the means which lead to this end. I have,
in the foregoing part of this work, endeavoured to shew how this
desire and knowledge are generated. But the fact is certain and
obvious, whether that account be satisfactory or no.
Thirdly, Those who admit a benevolent Author of Nature, in
any sense of these words, will be inclined to believe that man
kind must, in some degree, be fitted to attain happiness; and
also, in consequence thereof, attain it in fact. And even atheis
tical and sceptical persons, when they see how blind fate, or nature,
or whatever term else they think fit to use, gives to all animals
appetites, instincts, and objects, in general, suited to their well-
being, ought, from an argument of induction, to expect some
thing analogous to this in mankind, previously to their inquiry
into the fact.
It appears, therefore, that the practice of mankind, taken at
an average, may be of some use to us in our investigation of the
rule of life; and yet these same considerations shew, that the
light thereby afforded can be no more than a very imperfect one.
The error, irregularity, and misery, which are every where con
spicuous, prove at once that the practice of mankind is no infal
lible guide.
Prop. XLVII.— The Opinions of Mankind afford an imperfect
Direction in respect of the Rule of Life, which is preferable to
that drawn from their Practice.
That the opinions of mankind concerning the means of
obtaining happiness are both of real use, and yet an imperfect
rule in many respects, will appear, if we apply the reasoning
used in the foregoing proposition to them.
That this imperfect rule is, however, preferable to that drawn
from the mere practice, follows, inasmuch as the opinions of
mankind are, in general, formed after experience, and often
upon mature deliberation, when they are free from the violent
THE RULE OF LIFE. 447
impulses of their appetites and passions, and at a more proper
and e'qual distance from the objects under consideration, than can
well be at the time of action.
Prop. XLVIII.— The Rule of Life drawn from the Practice
and Opinions of Mankind, taken at an Average, is favourable
to the Cause of Virtue.
I will first consider the rule supposed to be taken from the
mere practice of mankind.
Now it appears at first sight, that this rule would exclude all
eminent degrees both of virtue and vice. A person who should
be similar to the whole aggregate of mankind, considered as one
great individual, would have some seeds and shoots of every
virtue, and every vice, and yet none in an eminent degree : his
virtues and vices would only exert themselves, when*called forth
by strong motives and occasions: in which cases, however, this
fictitious person, this type and representative of the whole
Species, would not fail to shew that he had all kinds of good and
bad dispositions, all balancing and restraining 6ne another, unless
where extraordinary incidents turn the scale in favour of each
particular respectively : so that, if the mere practice of mankind
should be thought sufficient to ground a rule upon, we should be
directed by this to avoid all great degrees both of virtue and
vice, and to keep our appetites and passions in subjection to one
another, so as that none should prevail over the rest, unless
upon particular extraordinary occasions. And a person formed
according to this model would be reckoned a neutral, moderate,
prudent man, not much loved or hated by those with whom he
conversed ; however respected and regarded rather than other
wise. We may also suppose that his life would be much
chequered with happiness and misery; and yet, for the most
part, be void of all high degrees of either; upon the whole,
probably rather happy than miserable. And thus the practice
of mankind would, as it appears to me, lead to a low degree
both of virtue and happiness, and exclude all that violence and
exorbitancy of passion and appetite, which is one chief source
and occasion of .vice. For almost all kinds of vice are the
excesses, and monstrous offsprings, of natural appetites, whereas
the virtues are in general of a moderate nature, and lie between
the two extremes. That moderation, therefore, which the prac
tice of mankind, taken so as to make the opposite extremes
balance each other, directs us to, must, upon the whole, be more
favourable to virtue than to vice.
Let us next inquire to what rule of life the opinions of man
kind would lead us, or how far the several virtues or vices are
generally esteemed to conduce to happiness or misery. Now,
as the general practice of mankind excludes all gross vices, so
does the general opinion, but in a stronger manner. It does
448 THE RULE OF LIFE.
also exclude all eminent virtues; but then it does this in a
weaker manner than the general practice ; and, upon the whole,
it turns the scale greatly in favour of virtue, and against vice, as
means of private happiness; as will immediately appear, if we
consider the particular virtues and vices of temperance and in
temperance, meekness and anger, beneficence and avarice, grati
tude and ingratitude, &c. as opposed to, and put in competition
with, each other, in the judgment of mankind. And yet it does
not seem by any means, that, according to the general opinion of
mankind, the greatest degree of virtue has the fairest prospect
for happiness in this world.
But then, with respect to that other world, for which there is
at least this presumption of general opinion, we have almost an
universal consent, of all ages and nations, that all degrees of
virtue and vice will there meet with their proper and proportional
reward and punishment. Now an impartial sceptic must either
enter the lists, and fairly consider what arguments there are for
or against a future state, and reason upon the subject, *. e. cease
to be a sceptic ; or else this general opinion of mankind in favour
of a future state must, for the mechanical reasons alleged in the
first part of this work, give some degree of determination to
him here, as in other cases, where the mind is perfectly in
equilibrio. For the same reasons, the almost universal consent
of mankind in the superior advantages of virtue in a future state,
by them supposed, ought to have some weight with such a
person, even though he should still remain in equilibria, as to the
opinion of a future state, because then it would be as probable as
the other side of the question.
And upon the whole, we may make the following conclusions.
1. " That a person who should form his life partly upon the
practice of mankind, and partly upon their opinions, would
incline considerably to the side of virtue.
2. That, if he thought the rule drawn from the opinions of
mankind preferable to that drawn from their practice, according
to the last proposition, he must incline more to the side of
virtue.
3. That, if the future state, which commences at the expiration
of this life, be supposed of indefinitely more value than it, and
certain, he ought to adhere strictly to virtue, and renounce all
vice. And the conclusion will be the same, though there be
only a strong, or a moderate probability, or even an equal
chance, nay, I might almost say, a bare possibility, of the reality,
and great importance, of a future life; since what he would
forfeit in this life by a strict adherence to virtue, is confessedly of
small importance in common cases.
4. That all great degrees of vice are contrary to the common
sense, practice, and experience of mankind.
5. And, therefore, lastly, If a man gives himself up to vicious
courses, pretending cool rational scepticism and uncertainty in
THE RULE OF LIFE. 449
religious matters, he must either deceive himself, or endeavour to
impose upon others. A person who lay entirely afloat, would,
from the susceptibility of infection, allowed by all, and above
explained from our frame, suffer himself to be formed by the
practices and opinions of mankind at an average, i. e. would
incline to the side of virtue : and, therefore, a person who inclines
the contrary way, must be drawn aside from the neutral point of
scepticism by secret prejudices and passions.
It may be objected to the reasoning used in the former part of
this proposition, that whatever be the opinions of mankind, their
practice at an average is by no means at an equal distance from
perfect virtue, and gross vice ; but approaches much nearer to
the latter extreme ; and that this appears both from the observa
tions of the facts, and from the declarations of the Scriptures.
First, then, Let us consider the observation of the facts. And
here the objectors will be ready to heap together the many
instances of violence, revenge, cruelty, injustice, ingratitude,
treachery, want of natural affection, brutal sensuality, anger,
envy, moroseness, ambition, avarice, and selfishness, which history
and experience, public and private, are able to furnish; and will
urge, that a person who should copy after mankind taken at a
medium, would be a very sensual, selfish, malevolent, and every
way vicious creature. And it must be confessed, nay, I am so
far from denying, that I every where suppose, and lay it down as
a principle, that there is much corruption and wickedness all
over the world. But that the moral evil in the world exceeds
the moral good, would be very difficult to prove.
For, first, How shall we make the computation ? Who shall
sum up for us all the instances of the foregoing and other vices,
and weigh them in a just balance against the contrary instances
of love to relations, friends, neighbours, strangers, enemies, and
the brute creation ; of temperance and chastity, generosity, gra
titude, compassion, courage, humility, piety, resignation, &c.?
The case between the virtues and the vices, i. e. between moral
good and evil, seems to resemble that between pleasure and
pain, or natural good and evil. The instances of pleasure are,
in general, more numerous, but less in quantity, than those of
pain ; and though it is impossible to speak with certainty,
because no man can be qualified to make the estimate, yet
pleasure seems to prevail upon the whole. In like manner, the
instances of benevolence, of some kind or other, though mixed
with many imperfections, of a partial self-government, of a super
stitious, enthusiastic, idolatrous, or lukewarm piety, one or
other, occur in almost all the most familiar circumstances of
human life, and intermix themselves with the most common,
ordinary thoughts, words, and actions : whereas the instances of
sensuality, malevolence, and profaneness, are rarer, as it seems,
though often of a more glaring nature.
Secondly, The imperfection of virtue, which I allow, and even
G G
450 THE RULE OF LIFE.
lay down in mankind in general, makes them, in general, apt to
magnify the vices of others. Perfect virtue may be supposed to
be but just perfectly candid and equitable; and, therefore, im
perfect virtue is most probably too censorious, especially since
men, by blaming others, hope to exculpate or exalt themselves.
And agreeably to this, common experience shews, that bodily
infirmities, disappointments, pride, self-indulgence, and vice of
all kinds, dispose men to look upon the dark side of every
prospect, and to magnify the evils, natural and moral, that are in
the world, both in their own thoughts, and in their discourses to
others. It is also to be added here, that as our opinions are
more in favour of virtue than our practice, so our rule of judging
must of consequence much condemn the general practice. This
circumstance is very necessary for the moral improvement of the
world ; but, if overlooked, it may mislead in the present inquiry.
Thirdly, The greater intenseness of the particular pains above
the corresponding pleasures in general, and of the particular
vices above the opposite virtues as just now mentioned, tends,
for most eminent and beneficent final causes in both cases, to
affect the imagination and memory with stronger and more
lasting impressions, so as to occur more readily to the invention
in all inquiries and speculations of this kind.
Fourthly, If we suppose that natural good prevails, upon the
whole, in the world, analogy seems to require, that moral good
(which is, in general, its cause) should also prevail in like manner.
Farther, as we judge that natural good prevails from the general
desire of life, the pleasure of recollecting persons, and places, and
renewing our acquaintance with them, &c., so the same things
seem to determine, that mankind is, upon the whole, rather
amiable and respectable, than hateful and contemptible, *. e.
rather virtuous than vicious.
Lastly, It is to be observed, that, in an accurate way of speak
ing, virtue and vice are mere relative terms, like great and little.
Whence the average of mankind may be considered as a middle
point between the positive and negative quantities of virtueTand
vice, as a neutral situation. And, upon this supposition, we
might first shew, that it is man's greatest interest, his sunnnum
bonum, at least, to be neutral ; and afterwards, that he ought to
press forward with all possible earnestness towards the infinite
perfection of God, though ever at an infinite distance. For, as
every finite length is infinitely nearer to nothing, than to a meta
physically infinite one (to make this supposition for argument's
sake;) so all finite virtue is infinitely more distant from the
infinite perfection of God, than from nothing. And thus, indeed,
all our righteousness is filthy rags, and all our virtue infinite
vice. But this method of considering the present subject is far
from opposing the purport of this section.
If we should call all mere self-regards vice, and all regards to
God and our neighbour, virtue; which is a very proper language,
THE RULE OF LIFE.
and one that would render the terms of this inquiry precise ; it
seems probable to me, that virtue abounds more, upon the
whole, than vice. A view to the good of others, at least near
relations, is a general motive to action ; and a design to please
God, at least not to offend him, is very common in the bulk of
mankind, or even the worst. The most ordinary and trivial
actions are performed without any explicit view at all, at least
any that we remember a few moments after the action, i.e. are
automatic secondarily; and so cannot be considered as either
virtuous or vicious; or, if they be, we must judge of their com
plexion by that of the more eminent ones.
Secondly, It may be objected, that, according to the Scrip
tures, mankind are in a lost fallen state ; that they are all gone
out of the way, and become corrupt and abominable ; that there is
none that doth good, S.c. I answer, that these, and such like
expressions, seem to refer to a former state of innocence in
paradise, to a future kingdom of righteousness, promised in both
the Old and New Testament, and to the rule of life laid down
there, with the conditions requisite to our admittance into this
happy state: and that, in this view of things, the virtue of man
kind in general is as deficient as their happiness falls short of
the joys of the blessed ; agreeably to which, the present life is,
in the Scripture, represented as a scene of vanity, labour, and
sorrow. And it is a most important and alarming consideration,
that the common virtue of mankind will not entitle us to a future
reward after death ; that fete shall find the straight gate ; and
that, unless our righteousness exceed that of the Scribes and Pha
risees, we can in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven, here
or hereafter. But then, as, notwithstanding the curse passed
upon man, and upon the ground, God is represented in Scripture
as opening his hand, and filling all things living with plenteous-
ness, as being kind to all, and manifesting his infinite and in
visible goodness by visible things, i. e. as making natural good
to prevail upon the whole, that so we may, on this account, be
thankful to him, and love him with all our hearts, as he com
mands ; so the corresponding precept of loving our neighbour as
ourselves, seems to infer, that our neighbour is amiable upon the
whole. And we may suppose that moral good prevails in general,
in a degree proportional to the prevalence of natural good : or
however we understand the scripture language on this head, it
cannot be contrary to the foregoing reasoning. It must appear
from thence, that we ought to be, at least, as good as mankind
at a medium, in order to obtain the medium of happiness ; and
that, if we have higher views, our road lies towards the infinite
perfection of virtue, towards spirituality, benevolence, and piety,
and not towards sensuality, selfishness, or malevolence.
o g 2
452 THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. XLIX.—The Rule of Life drawn from the Practice and
Opinions of Mankind, corrects and improves itself perpetually,
till at last it determines entirely for Virtue, and excludes all
Kinds and Degrees of Vice.
For, since the imperfect rule, drawn in the last proposition,
is, at least, so favourable to virtue, as to exclude all great vices,
we may conclude that all grossly vicious persons ought to be left
out in collecting the rule of life from the practice and opinions of
mankind ; and that our rule will approach nearer to a perfect
one thereby. And as this our second rule, taken from the
virtuous and superior orders of the vicious, determines more in
favour of virtue than our first, taken indifferently from all the
orders both of the virtuous and vicious, so it will engage us to ex
clude more of the vicious from our future estimate ; and so on, till
at last we determine entirely in favour of virtue. At least, this is
a presumption, which rises up to view, when we consider the
subject in the method here proposed. Since it appears from the
first general consideration of the practice and opinions of man
kind, that grossly vicious persons must be unhappy, it is not
reasonable to allow them any weight in determining what is the
proper method for attaining the greatest possible happiness.
And as the same observation recurs perpetually, with respect to
all the orders of the vicious, we shall at last be led to take the
most virtuous only, as the proper guides of life.
Grossly vicious persons may also be excluded, from the mani
fest blindness and infatuation in common affairs, which attends
them ; and as this extends to the vice of sensuality in particular,
so this vice may be farther excluded from that tendency of our
natures to spirituality, in our progress through life, which is
allowed by all, and explained in the foregoing part of this work
upon the principle of association. Malevolence is also excluded,
because it is itself misery, and, by parity of reason, benevolence
must be a proper recommendation for those, whose example and
judgment we would follow in our endeavours after happiness.
And it does not appear in this way of proposing these matters,
that the ultimate ratio of things admits of any limit to our
spirituality or benevolence, provided we suppose, that, at the
expiration of this life, a progressive scene of the same kind
commences.
The method of reasoning here used bears some resemblance to,
and is somewhat illustrated by, the method of approximation
practised by mathematicians, in order to determine the roots of
equations to any proposed degree of exactness. Farther, as it is
common in infinite series for the three or four first terms either
to shew what the whole series is, or, at least, that it is infinite ;
so here the evergrowing and superior excellence of spirituality
and benevolence, which the foregoing considerations open to
THE RULE OF LIFE. 433
view, by recurring perpetually, and correcting the immediately
precedent determination in every step, may incline one to think,
in correspondence to that method of reasoning in series, that
spirituality and benevolence ought to be made infinite in the
ultimate ratio which they bear to sensuality and selfishness.
But this method of reasoning may also be illustrated, in a
more popular way, by applying it to more obvious inquiries. I
will give two instances of this, the first in the health of the body
natural, the second in the welfare of the body politic.
Suppose, then, that a person entirely ignorant of physic,
theoretical and practical, and disposed to treat it as mere guess
work and uncertainty, should, however, be desirous to know,
since he must eat, what diet is most conducive to health. The
first and most obvious answer will be, the general diet of man
kind ; because this is the result of general experience, and of the
natural appetites, which are in so many other instances fitted to
the objects themselves, and to the uses and pleasures, public and
private, of human life. And thus the inquirer would be re
strained from all gross excesses in the quantity or qualities of his
diet. But if he farther observes that the opinions of mankind
tend more to moderation in diets than their practice ; and that
both the practice and opinions of those who appear by other
criterions to be the best judges, tend more to moderation than
those of mankind at an average ; and, lastly, that the sensual and
intemperate ought entirely to be excluded from having any
share in determining this inquiry; this will lead him to great
moderation in diet, or even to abstemiousness.
In like manner let it be asked, what principles of govern
ment are most conducive to the public welfare ? Are private
virtues, or private vices, most to be encouraged ? Here indeed /
the answer drawn from the average of states will not be an exact
medium between both, so as to discourage all the virtues, and all
the degrees of them, as much as the vices, and their degrees ;
and vice versd, to encourage both equally; but will, upon the
whole, be greatly favourable to virtue. However, since avarice,
vain-glory, resentment, luxury, &c. are, in certain respects, even
promoted, and the greatest virtues sometimes persecuted, the
practice of legislators and magistrates, in enacting and enforcing
laws, will not be entirely favourable to virtue. But then, if we
take their opinions, especially those of the legislators the most
celebrated for wisdom, and leave out barbarous nations, infant
states as yet unsettled, and such as approach near to their dis
solution, the average from the remainder will give the advantage
to virtue more and more perpetually. And it may be remarked
of both these instances, that they prove in part the thing to be
illustrated by them, being not mere emblems only, but in part
the reality itself. For moderation in diet is one principal virtue,
and extremely requisite to preserve benevolence in perfection ;
and health a great ingredient towards happiness. And the public
454 THE RULE OF LIFE.
happiness which arises from the cultivation of private virtues,
includes private happiness within itself.
Perhaps it may not displease the reader just to hint, that the
same method of reasoning may be made use of in favour of the
christian religion. All ages and nations have in general believed
some revelation. There must therefore be some true one. But
the christian is plainly the religion of the most learned and
knowing part of mankind, and is, in general, more earnestly
believed, in proportion as men are wiser and better. If we
except the Mahometans, the rest of the world are mere savages. .
But Mahometanism bears testimony to both the Old and New
Testament. If the unbeliever will not be determined by this
himself, let him at least allow that the more ignorant and un
learned may be directed by it to the true religion. But then
they are not to be supposed capable of making objections.
Whoever has a capacity for this, has also a capacity to receive
the proper answers.
It is evident, however, that observations of this kind, drawn
from the common sense and judgment of mankind, cannot carry
us to great lengths with precision and certainty. They are very
convincing and striking, in respect of the first principles and
rudiments; but, if we would descend to minute particulars with
accuracy, recourse must be had to the several practical theories
of each art.
SECT. II.
THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF SENSA
TION IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. L.—The Pleasures of Sensation ought not to be made a
primary Pursuit.
In order to shew this, let us put the extreme case of the
primary pursuit of sensible pleasure ; and suppose, that a person
endeavours to gratify every impulse of his bodily appetites, how
ever contrary such gratification may be to the virtues of temper
ance and chastity. Now it is evident, that such a one would
soon destroy the bodily faculties themselves, thereby rendering
the objects of sensible pleasure useless, and also precipitate him
self into pain, diseases, and death, those greatest of evils in the
opinion of the voluptuous. This is a plain matter of observation,
verified every day by the sad examples of loathsome, tortured
wretches, that occur which way soever we turn our eyes, in the
streets, in private families, in hospitals, in palaces. Whether
THE KULE OF LIFE. 455
the Scriptures give a true account how all this sin and misery
were first introduced into the world; also whether our reason be
able to reconcile it with the moral attributes of God, or no;
still, that positive misery, and the loss even of sensual happiness,
are thus inseparably connected with intemperance and lewdness,
is an evident fact, that no unbeliever, no atheist, no sceptic, that
will open his eyes, can dispute. And it is to be observed, that
the real instances do not, cannot come up to the case here put of
a man's yielding to every sensual inclination. The most gross
and debauched have had some restraints from some other desires
or fears, from the quarters of imagination, ambition, &c. It is
evident therefore, d fortiori, that the mere gratification of our
sensual appetites cannot be our primary pursuit, our summum
bonum, or the rule and end of life. They must be regulated by,
and made subservient to, some other part of our natures ; else we
shall miss even the sensible pleasure, that we might have enjoyed,
and shall fall into the opposite pains; which, as has been observed
before, are, in general, far greater, and more exquisite, than the
sensible pleasures.
That indulgence in sensual gratifications will not afford us our
summum bonum, may also be inferred from the following argu
ments; viz. that it destroys the mental faculties, the apprehen
sion, memory, imagination, invention ; that it exposes men to
ceusure and contempt ; that it brings them to penury ; that it is
absolutely inconsistent with the duties and pleasures of bene
volence and piety ; and that it is all along attended with the
secret reproaches of the moral sense, and the horrors of a guilty
mind. Now it is impossible, as will appear from the foregoing
history of association, how much soever a man may be devoted
to sensual indulgences, entirely to prevent the generation of the
several mental affections ; but it is in our power, by an inordinate
pursuit of the sensible pleasures, to convert the mental affections
into sources of pain, and to impair and cut off many of the in
tellectual pleasures, so as that the balance shall be against us
upon the whole. It follows therefore from this utter inconsistency
of the sensible pleasures, when made a primary pursuit, with the
intellectual ones, that they ought not to be so ; but must be
subjected to, and regulated by, some more impartial law, than
that of mere sensual desire.
The same thing may be concluded, in a more direct way, from
the history of association. For the sensible pleasures are the first
pleasures of which we are capable, and are the foundation of the
intellectual ones, which are formed from them in succession,
according to the law of association, as before explained. Now
which way soever we turn our view, that which is prior in the
order of nature is always less perfect and principal, than that
which is posterior, the last of two contiguous states being the
end, the first the means subservient to that end, though itself be
an end in respect of some foregoing state. The sensible pleasures
456 THE RULE OF LIFE.
therefore cannot be supposed of equal value and dignity with the
intellectual, to the generation of which they are made subservient,
And we might be led to infer this from the mere analogy of
nature, from the numberless parallel instances which daily ob
servation suggests, and without taking into consideration the
infinite beneficence of the supreme cause, which yet makes this
argument much more satisfactory and convincing.
Nay, one may go farther, and observe, that as many persons
are evidently forced from the inordinate pursuit of sensible
pleasure by its inconsistency with itself, and with the other parts
of our frame, so it seems, that, if human life was continued to
an indefinite length, and yet nothing abated from the rigour of
those wholesome severities, and penal sufferings, which sensuality
brings upon us, more and more individuals would perpetually be
advanced thereby to a state of spirituality ; and that it would be
impossible for any man to persist for ever in sacrificing all to his
sensual appetites, in making his belly his god, upon such dis
advantageous, and painful terms. Intellectual desires, i.e. desires
in which no particular sensible pleasure is conspicuous, (though
they arise from a multiform aggregate of the traces of such) must
be formed, as we see they are in fact, in the most luxurious and
debauched ; and these would at last become sufficient to struggle
with and overpower the sensual desires, which would at the same
time be weakened by associations with intense pains and suffer
ings. And this affords us a pleasing glimpse not only of a future
state, but also of what may be done there by still greater severities,
for those whom the miseries of this life could not free from the
slavery to their bodily appetites; at the same time that it is the
strongest incentive to us all, to apply ourselves with earnestness
and assiduity to the great business and purport of the present
life, the transformation of sensuality into spirituality, by asso
ciating the sensible pleasures, and their traces, with proper foreign
objects, and so forming motives to beneficent actions, and diffusing
them over the whole general course of our existence.
Lastly, The inferior value of the sensible pleasures may be
deduced from their being of a confined local nature ; and injuring
or destroying prematurely, i. e. before the body in general comes
to its period,, the particular organs of each, when indulged to
excess; whereas the intellectual pleasures affect the whole nervous
system, *. e. all the sensible parts, and that nearly in an equal
manner, on account of the varieties and combinations of sensible
local, and of nascent intellectual pleasures, which occur in the
formation of the mature intellectual ones ; so that though some
of them should be indulged to excess, and out of due proportion
to the rest, this will be more consistent with the gentle, gradual
decay of the mortal body.
We may add, that the duration of mere sensual pleasure is
necessarily short; and that, even when free from guilt, it cannot,
however, afford any pleasing reflections ; whereas one of the
THE RULE OF LIFE. 457
principal tendencies of our natures is, and must be, from the
power of association in forming them, to the pleasures of reflec
tion and consciousness. In like manner, the evident use and
restriction thereto of one of the principal sensible pleasures to
preserve life and health, with all the consequent mental faculties, '
and executive bodily powers ; of the other to continue the species,
and to generate and enlarge benevolence ; make the subordinate
nature of both manifest in an obvious way, and without entering
minutely into the history of association: at the same time that
these remarks, when further pursued, unite with that history,
and are eminent parts of the foregoing argument, taken directly
from thence.
Thus it appears, that the pleasures of sensation ought not to
be made the primary pursuit of life ; but require to be restrained
and directed by some foreign regulating power. What that
power is, I now come to shew in the next proposition.
Prop. LI.—The Pursuit of sensible Pleasure ought to regulated
by the Precepts of Benevolence, Piety, and the Moral Sense.
This may be proved by shewing, that the regulation of our
sensible pleasures, here proposed, will contribute both to their
own improvement, and to that of the other parts of our natures.
Now benevolence requires, that the pleasures of sense should
be made entirely subservient to the health of the body and mind,
that so each person may best fill his place in life, best perform
the several relative duties of it, and prolong his days to their
utmost period, free from great diseases and infirmities ; instances
of which have much authority, and a very beneficial influence, in
the world. All gratifications therefore, which tend to produce
diseases in the body, and disturbances in the mind, are forbidden
by benevolence, and the most wholesome diet as to quantity and
quality enjoined by it. The rules of piety are to the same pur
pose, whether they be deduced from our relation to God, as our
common father and benefactor, who wills that all his children
should use his blessings so as to promote the common good
thereby ; or from the natural signatures of his will in the imme
diate pleasures and advantages arising from moderate refresh
ment, and the manifest inconveniences and injuries caused by
excess in quantity or quality ; or from his revealed will, by
which temperance is commanded, and all intemperance severely
threatened. In like manner, the moral sense directs us implicitly
to the same moderation and government of our appetites, whether
it be derived explicitly from the foregoing rules of piety and
benevolence, or from ideas of decency, rational self-interest, the
practice of wise and good men, the loathsomeness of diseases, the
odiousness and mischiefs of violent passions, &c. It is evident
therefore, that all these three guides of life lead to the same end,
viz. great moderation in sensual enjoyments, though they differ
458 THE RULE OF LIFE.
somewhat in their motives, and the conimodiousness of their
application as a rule in the particular occurrences of life.
It is evident at the same time, that we are no losers, in respect
of the sensible pleasures, by this steady adherence to moderation.
Our senses, and bodily faculties, are by these means preserved in
their perfection ; so as to afford the natural exquisite gratification,
and to enable us to perform the several animal functions with
ease and pleasure, and to carry us on to old age with all the
integrity of these senses and faculties, that is consistent with the
necessary decay and dissolution of our earthly body. The same
moderation, and health arising from it, inspire men with perpetual
serenity, cheerfulness, and good-will, and with gratitude towards
God, who gives us all things richly to enjoy, and the sensible
pleasures in particular, as the means and earnest of far greater,
both here and hereafter. Now it is observable in the common
intercourses of life, that associated circumstances add greatly to
our pleasures. Thus the pleasure of receiving a thing from a
friend, of making a friend partaker of it, of sociality and mirth at
the time of enjoyment, &c. greatly enhance the gratifications of
taste, as in feasts, and public entertainments. Much more then
may the pure and exalted pleasures of benevolence and piety,
the eating and drinking to the glory of God, improve these
pleasures.
I And as we are no losers, but great gainers, upon the whole, by
religious abstemiousness, in respect of the sensible pleasure ; so
are we much more obviously so, in respect of the sensible pains
and sufferings, which the intemperate bring upon themselves.
These are of the most exquisite kind, and often of long duration,
especially when they give intervals of respite, thus exceeding the
inventions of the most cruel tyrants. They impair the bodily
and mental faculties, so as to render most other enjoyments im
perfect and insipid, dispose to peevishness, passion, and murmuring
against Providence, and are attended with the horrors of a guilty
mind. It follows therefore, that he who would obtain the max
imum of the sensible pleasures, even those of taste, must not give
himself up to them ; but restrain them, and make them subject
to benevolence, piety, and the moral sense.
Cor. Besides the sensible pains, which excesses bring upon
men, there are some which occur in the daily discharge of the
functions of life, from fatigue, labour, hardships, &c. Now it
follows from the same method of reasoning as that used in the
two foregoing propositions, that the proper method of avoiding
these pains is not to aim at it directly, but in every thing to be
guided by the precepts of benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense; and that delicate and effeminate persons endure more from
this head of sufferings, than the charitable and devout, who
go about doing good, at the apparent expense of their ease and
quiet.
THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LII.—To deduce practical Rules concerning Diet.
What that moderation in diet is, which would most contribute
to the health of the body and mind, and consequently which
duty requires, is difficult to determine in particular cases. The
following subordinate rules may, however, afford some assistance
in this matter.
First, then, It is necessary to abstain from all such things as
the common experience of mankind determines to be unwhole
some, either in general, or to the particular persons who make
the inquiry. There are indeed some vulgar errors of this kind,
that are generally received, and which, by being observed, may a
little abridge one's liberty, without use or necessity. However,
this is of small moment, in comparison of the dangers arising
from the free use of meats and drinks found by the repeated
observation of those who have made the trial, to be hurtful,
generally or particularly. There still remains, after all these
are set aside, a sufficient variety of things approved as wholesome
by the same common experience, to answer all the purposes of
life, health, and even sensible pleasure. This rule will be farther
explained by those that follow.
Secondly, We ought either totally to abstain from, or, however,
to use with great caution and moderation, all foods of high relish,
whose tastes and smells are pungent and acrid; all which, though
made grateful by custom, are at first disagreeable; all which bear
a great affinity in taste, smell, and generical or specific charac
teristics, to such as are known to be hurtful ; which are poisonous
during a particular state, previous to coction, or other preparation;
which are uncommon, or which have very particular effects upon
the functions and secretions. For all these things are signs of
active properties in the foods to which they belong, and shew
them to be rather proper for medicines, than for common diet ;
to be bodies which by an extraordinary efficacy may reduce the
solids and fluids back to their natural state, when they have
deviated from it ; and therefore which are very unsuitable to the
natural state. -
We may consider farther, that strong tastes, smells, &c. are,
according to the modern philosophy, marks of great powers of
attraction and cohesion in the small component particles of
natural bodies. Since therefore it is the manifest design of the
descending serieses of arteries in animals to separate the particles
of their aliment from each other, also the particles of these par
ticles, &c. that so the smallest particles, or the minima divisibilia,
meeting in the veins, may unite according to their respective
sizes, and mutual actions, i. e. to separate what is heterogeneous,
and congregate what is homogeneous, a great difficulty and burden
must be laid upon the circulation, and upon what is called nature
in the body, by all highly agreeable flavours ; and, unless a pro
portional degree of muscular action impels the blood forward,
460 THE RULE OF LIFE.
particles of an undue size must remain undivided, and form ob
structions, which may either never be removed, or not till the
obstructing particles become putrid ; and thus, being dissolved,
and mixed with the animal juices, infect them with putrescence.
Still farther, it may be remarked, that the same active particles
in foods are probably the sources and recruits of that nervous
power, or of some requisite to it, by which .animal sensation and
motion, and, by consequence, intellectual apprehension and affec
tion, and their effects upon the body, are carried on. Now, it is
evident, that affection raised to a certain height, and executive
power ready to answer the first call, are a mental disease of the
most pernicious tendency. High-relished aliments, which generate
it, are therefore carefully to be avoided, on one hand ; as a very
insipid diet, on the other, seems insufficient to qualify us for
performing the requisite functions of life. But there is little
danger of erring on this hand, our appetites being but too sensibly
gratified with the high relishes. We may add, as nearly allied to
these considerations, that by storing our blood, and the solids
thence formed, with active properties, we lay up matter for future
pains, both bodily and mental, whenever either body or mind
become disordered, at the same time that a high diet has, as
we see, an evident tendency , to disorder both.
This second rule coincides, for the most part, with the first ;
and may be made use of to extend and confirm it. Those meats
and drinks, which are found by experience to be hurtful, have,
for the most part, high relishes. We may therefore determine
against an aliment of a high flavour from a narrower experience,
than against one of a common moderate flavour. And it is very
necessary to attend to this criterion, since the best observations
upon diet are much perplexed by foreign circumstances.
Thirdly, All liquors, which have undergone vinous fermentation,
since they obtain thereby an inflammable, inebriating spirit, have
from this inebriating quality, which impairs reason, and adds
force to the passions, a mark set upon them, as dangerous not
only on this account, but on others, to bodily health, &c. and as
either totally to be avoided, or not to be used, except in small
quantities, and rarely. The general agreeableness of wines and
fermented liquors to the taste, their immediate good effects in
languors, dejections, and indigestion, and their exhilarating
quality, when taken sparingly, are indeed arguments to shew
that there may be a proper use of them. But this seems rather
to be that of medicines, or refreshments upon singular occasions,
than of daily food.
It may perhaps be, that the changes produced in the earth at the
deluge did so alter the nature of vegetable juices, as to render them
then first capable of producing an inflammable inebriating spirit
by fermentation ; and that this alteration in the juices of vege
tables had a principal share in shortening the life of man ; perhaps
of other animals, which last might farther contribute to the first.
THE RULE OF LIFE.
So great an event as the deluge may well be supposed to make a
great alteration in all the three kingdoms, mineral, vegetable, and
animal. We are sure of the first from natural history, and of the
last from the Scriptures, which relate the gradual shortening of
man's life after the flood, And the account of Noah's drunkenness
seems to intimate, that it was something new and unexpected.
The connexion of the three kingdoms with each other is also so
great, that we may reasonably infer a change in any one, either
as a cause, or as an effect, from finding it in the other two.
However, the sin of our common parent Noah, and his exposing
his nakedness, which also bears some resemblance to the immediate
consequence of Adam's transgression, ought to make us parti
cularly upon our guard. At the same time several other passages
of Scripture seem fairly to intimate, that there is an allowable
use of wine in the intercourses of human life, as where wine is
said to make glad the heart of man, and therefore to be matter of
Eraise ; our Saviour's turning water into wine ; his blessing it at
is last supper, and making it the representative of his blood ;
and St. Paul's advice to Timothy. But very great caution ought
to be used in this point. The inebriating quality of fermented
liquors, by disordering the mind, is a strong evidence that they
are also hurtful to the body, both because of the intimate con
nexion between body and mind, and because all the beneficent
ends of Providence are answered always by one and the same
means, and centre in one and the same point. Whenever there
fore we deviate in one respect, we must deviate in all. The
abstinence from wine enjoined upon the Nazarites at all times,
and upon the priests during their ministration, appears to be
a strong intimation of the unsuitableness of wine to those who
aim at perfection; who would deviate as little as possible from
the divine life.
This third rule coincides remarkably with both the first and
second. The ill effects of fermented liquors, when indulged in,
are evident from experience ; and their high flavours are a prin
cipal temptation to an immoderate use of them.
Fourthly, With respect to animal diet, let it be considered,
that taking away the lives of animals, in order to convert them
into food, does great violence to the principles of benevolence
and compassion. This appears from the frequent hard-hearted-
ness and cruelty found amongst those persons whose occupations
engage them in destroying animal life, as well as from the un
easiness which others feel in beholding the butchery of animals.
It is most evident, in respect of the larger animals, and those
with whom mankind have a familiar intercourse, such as oxen,
sheep, domestic fowls, &c. so as to distinguish, love, and com
passionate individuals. These creatures resemble us greatly in
the make of the body in general, and in that of the particular
organs of circulation, respiration, digestion, &c. ; also in the
formation of their intellects, memories, and passions, and in the
462 THE RULE OF LIFE.
signs of distress, fear, pain, and death. They often likewise win
our affections by the marks of peculiar sagacity, by their instincts,
helplessness, innocence, nascent benevolence, &c. And if there
be any glimmering of hope of an hereafter for them, if they
should prove to be our brethren and sisters in this higher sense,
in immortality as well as mortality, in the permanent principle
of our minds, as well as the frail dust of our bodies; if they
should be partakers of the same redemption as well as of our fall,
and be members of the same mystical body, this would have a
particular tendency to increase our tenderness for them. At the
same time the present circumstances of things seem to require,
that no very great alteration should be made in this matter: we
ourselves are under the same law of death, and of becoming food
to our fellow-animals ; and philosophy has of late discovered such
numberless orders of small animals in parts of diet formerly
esteemed to be void of life, and such an extension of life into the
vegetable kingdom, that we seem under the perpetual necessity,
either of destroying the lives of some of the creatures, or of
perishing ourselves, and suffering many others to perish. This
therefore seems to be no more than an argument to stop us in
our career, to make us sparing and tender in this article, and
put us upon consulting experience more faithfully and impartially,
in order to determine what is most suitable to the purposes of
life and health, our compassion being made by the foregoing
considerations, in some measure, a balance to our impetuous
bodily appetites. At least, abstinence from flesh meats seems
left to each person's choice, and not necessary, unless in peculiar
circumstances.
The doctrine of the Scriptures on this head appears very
agreeable to these dictates of sympathy. For Noah, and we in
him, received a permission from God to eat flesh ; and that this
was no more than a permission, may be concluded from its not
being given to Adam, from the shortening of human life after
the flood, from the strict command concerning blood, from the
Israelites being restrained from animal food for forty years during
their purification and institution in religion in the wilderness,
from the distinction of animals into clean and unclean, from the
burning of part in sacrifice, and sometimes the whole, from the
practice of many Jews and Christians particularly eminent for
piety, &c. All these may be considered as hints and admonitions
to us, as checks and restraints upon unbridled carnal appetites
and lusts : at the same time that our Saviour's partaking in meats
with all kinds of men, and many express instances and testi
monies both in the Old and New Testament, as particularly the
command to eat the paschal lamb, and other sacrifices, remove
all scruple from those persons who eat with moderation, and in
conformity to the rules of piety, benevolence, and the moral sense.
The coincidence of this fourth rule with the first and second
appears in the same manner as that of the third with them.
THE RULE OF LIFE. 463
Fifthly, Having laid down these four rules concerning the
quality of our aliments, I come next to observe, that the quantity
ought scarce ever to be so much as our appetites prompt us to,
but, in general, to fall a little short of this. The goodness of
this rule is verified by common observation ; nay, one may affirm,
that small errors in the quality of our diet may be quite rectified
by a proper moderation in respect of quantity ; whereas a trans
gression in regard to quantity cannot be compensated by the
innocence of the aliment. Such a transgression is, however, more
rare, where the quality of the aliment is not improper.
Here it may be asked how it comes to pass, that the appetites
should, in some instances, be the best guides to us both in respect
of quality and quantity, and in most so to the brute creation,
and yet, in other instances, be so greatly apt to mislead us, to
hurry us on to pain, diseases, and death, and these not rare and
singular ones, but the most frequent and ordinary that occur.
Almost every man is tempted by fruits, by wines, natural and
artificial savours, and high relishes, &c. to transgress either in
quantity or quality. Now to this we may answer, that in young
children the appetites deviate very seldom and very little, from
what is most conducive to the body ; and that they would pro
bably deviate less, were children conducted better, were not
their tastes and appetites perverted and corrupted by customs
and practices derived from our corruptions, or our ignorance.
This may, at first sight, seem harsh, in respect of them ; but it is
at the same time a strong instance and argument, amongst many
others, of the intimate connexion and sympathy, that unite us all
to each other, of our being members of the same mystical body,
and of the great system of the world's being a system of benevo
lence ; and thus it concurs to establish the fundamental position
of these papers. However, these perversions and corruptions,
from whatever cause they arise, seldom grow to a great height,
till such time as children arrive at years of discretion in a certain
degree, till they get some ideas of fitness, decency, obedience to
superiors, and to God, conscience, &c. Now at first, indeed, the
child is mere body, as it were; and therefore it is not at all
incongruous to suppose, that he may be directed by mere bodily
appetites and instincts. But, when the mental faculties are
generated, he then becomes a compound of body and mind ; and
consequently it would be incongruous to suppose him directed
in any thing that affects both body and mind, as diet plainly
does, by mere bodily appetites. On the contrary, his rule ought
now to be a compound of bodily and mental instincts, inclina
tions, admonitions, &c. directing, influencing, and assisting one
another. Let this be so, and the. child or man will very seldom
deviate from what is most conducive to health and happiness of
all kinds. And it is to be observed, that the bodily pains and
sufferings which follow from yielding to mere bodily appetites,
in opposition to mental conviction, are one principal means by
4434. THE RULE OF LIFE.
which the authority and influence of conscience are established
with respect to other branches of desire. And when a person,
from these or other motives, reverses his own steps in respect
of the pleasures of taste, the irregularity and inordinateness of
the bodily appetites decline by the same degrees, as they grew
excessive through unlawful gratification. So that, after a person
has governed himself, for a considerable time, with strictness,
from a sense of duty, he will find little difficulty afterwards. The
natural appetites will themselves become the proper substitutes
of benevolence, piety, and the moral sense, and direct a man
what and how much is requisite.
All this reasoning is confirmed by the observation before made
on brutes. They continue mere body, as it were, to the last ;
and therefore their bodily appetites scarce ever mislead them.
And the evil influences which our corrupt practices and customs
have upon them, is a farther argument for the relation we all
bear to each other. In like manner, all the evil mutual influences
in animals, with all their original deviations, are marks and evi
dences of a fallen and degenerate state, however difficult this
may be to be accounted for. They are therefore evidences also
of the truth of the Scriptures, which not only declare this our
degeneracy, and give a general idea of the means by which it was
introduced, but also publish the glorious tidings of our redemp
tion from it.
Sixthly, Since the circumstances of the world are such, as that
it is almost impossible for those who do not retire from it, to
avoid errors both in the quantity and quality of their diet, there
seems a necessity for fasting upon certain occasions. This is a
compendious method of reversing our own wrong steps, of pre
venting the ill effects of excess upon the body and mind, breaking
ill habits of this sort at once, and bringing us back, by hasty
motions, to the highest degree of self-government, to which
imperfect creatures in this world of temptations can attain. It
is therefore a duty, which implies and presupposes the present
imperfection and degeneracy of our natures. And yet this duty,
harsh as it seems, is probably productive even of sensible pleasures
in most instances ; since, under due restrictions, it appears to be
extremely conducive to health and long life, as well as to the
regulation of our passions. It may be true indeed, that constant
abstemiousness would be preferable, in these respects, to what is
called common moderation, practised upon ordinary occasions,
and rectified by fasting upon particular ones. But the due degree
of abstemiousness is scarce practicable for a constancy, as I ob
served just now, to those whose duty engages them to converse
freely with the world. Let me add here, that fasting will have
much more efficacy towards reducing us to a right course of
action, when it is accompanied with such religious exercises, as
the practice of good men has joined with it, prayer, self-examina
tion, and works of charity.
THE RULE OF LIFE. 465
Seventhly, Where a person has been so happily educated, as
scarce to have transgressed the bounds of strict moderation,
either in eating or drinking, and with respect both to quantity
and quality, or where he has corrected and brought back himself
by due severity, sufficiently continued, it is better to pay a regard
to the foregoing and such like precepts, only to a certain degree,
upon occasions of importance, and without scrupulosity and
rigour; and, in the small instantaneous occurrences of life, to be
directed by the natural appetites, agreeably to the original inten
tion of the Author of nature. For anxiety, solicitude, and
scrupulosity, are greatly prejudicial to the health both of the
body and mind, turn us from our natural and equitable judgment
of things, augment selfishness, and disqualify for the practice of
the highest duties, good-will to men, and complacence and de
light in God. The scripture precept is to eat and drink to the
glory of God, not with a solicitude about ourselves.
Prop. LIII.—To deduce practical Rules concerning the Com
merce between the Sexes.
That benevolence, love, esteem, and the other sympathetic
affections, give the chief value, and highest perfection, to the
sensible pleasures between the sexes, is sufficiently evident to
serious and considerate persons. It appears also, that these
pleasures were intended by Providence, as a principal means,
whereby we might be enabled to transfer our affection and
concern from ourselves to others, and learn first in the single
instance of the beloved person, afterwards in those of the
common offspring, to sympathize in the pleasures and pains of
our neighbours, and to love them as ourselves. It follows
therefore, that if this great source of benevolence be corrupted,
or perverted to other purposes, the social affections thereon
depending will be perverted likewise, and degenerate into selfish
ness or malevolence. Let us inquire in what manner the
strong inclinations of the sexes to each other may be best con
ducted, so as most to contribute to public and private happiness,
so as to obtain the maximum of it, both from this quarter, and
from the other parts of our nature, which are necessarily con
nected with it.
First, then, It is evident, that unrestrained promiscuous con
cubinage would produce the greatest evils, public and private.
By being unrestrained, it would destroy the health and the
propagation of mankind ; by being promiscuous, it would become
ineffectual to promote love, and the tender affections, either
between the persons themselves, or towards their offspring, and
also raise endless jealousies and quarrels amongst mankind.
There has never perhaps been any nation in the world, where
this entire licentiousness has been allowed ; the mischiefs which
evidently follow from all great degrees of it, having always laid
H H
46G THE RULE OF. LIFE.
mankind under some restraints, and produced some imperfect
regulations at least, and some approaches towards marriage.
However, the misery and desolation of the barbarous nations of
Africa and America, in whom the violence of passion, and the
degeneracy of nature, have almost obliterated the faint traces of
the patriarchal religion ; and the many evils, public and private,
which attend all unlawful commerce between the sexes in the
more civilized countries; are abundantly sufficient to evince
what is affirmed. The shameful, loathsome, and often fatal
disease, which peculiarly attends the vice of lewdness, may be
considered as a most unquestionable evidence of the divine will.
This disease, with all its consequences, would soon cease amongst
mankind, could they be brought under the restraints of lawful
marriage ; but must ever continue, whilst licentiousness con
tinues. And it is perhaps to this disease that we owe the pre
sent tolerable state of things. It may be, that, without this
check, the licentiousness, which has always been observed to
follow improvements in arts and politeness, and to attend upon
bodies politic in their declension, and which the corruption of
the Christian religion in some, and the disbelief of it in others,
have, in a manner, authorized, would have brought on utter
dissoluteness in this western part of the world, such as would
have been inconsistent with the very existence of regular govern
ment. Nay, it may be, that this will still be the case, and that
we are hastening to our period, through the great wickedness of
the world in this respect particularly, though our lives, as a body
politic, be somewhat prolonged, by this correction.
Secondly. Promiscuous concubinage being thus evidently ex
cluded, it comes next to be inquired, whether the gospel rule of
confining one man to one woman during life, except in the case
of the woman's adultery, be calculated to produce the greatest
possible good, public and private. And here we must own our
selves utterly unable to form any exact judgment. It is im
possible to determine, by any computation, which of all the
ways, in which marriage has been or may be regulated, is most
conducive to happiness upon the whole ; this would be too wide
a field, and where also we could have no fixed points to guide
us ; just as, in the matter of civil government, it is impossible for
us to determine, what particular form, monarchy, aristocracy, &c.
or what mixture of these, is most accommodated to human
nature, and these circumstances of things. Here therefore we
seem particularly to want a revelation to direct us ; and there
fore are under a particular obligation to abide by its award.
Now revealed religion commands us, in the case of government,
to obey those powers that are actually established, of whatever
kind they be, leaving that to the children of this world to dis
pute; and in respect of marriage, gives a permission to enter
into this state to those who find it requisite, and also a farther
permission to divorce an adultress, and marry another woman ;
THE RULE OF LIFE. 467
but at the same time enjoins the strictest purity in our thoughts,
words, and actions ; and that not only in all such as respect
other persons besides the husband and wife, but in every thing
that has a tendency to heighten carnal desire. Now, though it
does not appear, that mankind ever did or ever would make so
strict a rule for themselves ; yet this rule, when made, approves
itself to our judgments. The strictest purity and watchfulness
over ourselves are necessary, in order to make marriage of any
kind (which we see by the last article to be itself necessary)
happy, and productive of private pleasure and comfort, and
of public good, by the united labours of the married pair for
themselves, their offspring, and their relatives. In the present
imperfect state of things, the forbidding to divorce an adultress
might seem a harsh commandment, above the frailty of our
natures, as requiring the most entire love and affection, where
there are returns of the greatest contempt and aversion, and the
greatest violation of what are called just rights and properties.
Now, though the gospel requires perfection of us ultimately, i. e.
the most entire love in return for the most bitter hatred, and an
absolute disregard of all property both for ourselves, and for
those whom we make our substitutes after death ; yet it makes
allowance for human frailty in this eminent instance ; leaving it,
however, to every man, who is arrived at a sufficient degree of
perfection, to walk thereby.
That a greater liberty of divorcing would be less suited to
produce good, public and private, upon the whole, appears pro
bable, because no definite rule could be given in respect of other
offences, they all admitting of various degrees ; and because the
prospect of divorcing, or being divorced, would often increase
breaches, at the same time that frequent divorces would have the
worst consequences in respect of children, and even approach to
promiscuous concubinage ; whereas the indissolubility of the
marriage bond, with the affection to the common offspring, often
produce in both parties the christian virtues of forbearance, and
forgiveness to each other. It is not at all improbable, that
wicked casuists, who have explained away so many express
gospel precepts, would, by the influence of princes and great
men, have rendered marriage almost of no effect, by increasing
the liberty of divorcing.
Thirdly, The great sinfulness of adultery, fornication, and
impurity of every kind, appears not only from the manifest and
great evils and miseries of various sorts attending them, the
shame, intemperance, jealousies, murders, &c. and from the
strictness of the gospel precepts, and the practices of the first
Christians in this respect; but also because the great sin of
idolatry is represented by adultery and fornication in the pro
phetic writings; and because the most heavy judgments are
denounced against these last sins in those writings, when under
stood both in figurative and literal senses. And indeed, as the
H H 2
468 THE RULE OF LIFE.
idolatrous rites of the heathens were generally accompanied with
abominable lewdness, so these vicious pleasures may be consi
dered as one of the grossest kinds of idolatry, as withdrawing our
affections from the true object, and fixing them on a mere
animal pleasure, on one from the first and lowest class, and as
worshipping the heathen deities of Bacchus and Venus. It is
true indeed, that the pursuits of this kind are seldom from the
alone view of bodily pleasure, the very nature of our bodies not
suffering this, since the law of the body must transfer bodily
pleasures upon foreign objects, so as to form intellectual plea
sures. But then the intellectual pleasure accompanying these
pursuits is always a vicious one, generally that of a vain mis
chievous ambition, which occasions the greatest confusion, havock,
and distress, in families, and indeed in the whole race of man
kind.
Fourthly, It follows from the shame attending these pleasures,
the organs, their functions, &c. in all ages and nations, the
account of the origin of this shame in the third chapter of
Genesis, the directions concerning the uncleanness of men and
women given in the Jewish law, the rite of circumcision, the
pains of child-birth, with the account of their origin in the third
chapter of Genesis, the strictness required in the Jewish priests,
the abstinence required in others upon sacred occasions, the
miraculous conception of Christ, his expressions concerning
marrying, and giving in marriage, at the times of the flood, and
last judgment, his and St. Paul's recommendation of celibacy,
the honourable mention of virginity in the Revelation, &c. that
these pleasures are to be considered as one of the marks of our
present fallen degenerate state. The mortality of the present
body, introduced by Adam's sin, would of course require some
such method of propagation as now subsists, though nothing of
this kind had taken place before the fall ; and therefore it may
be, that nothing did, or something greatly different from the
present method. And one may deduce from hence, as well as
from the parallel observations concerning abstinence in diet, and
fasting, (for the similar nature, and reciprocal influence, of the
sensible pleasures justifies our inferences here, made either way,)
also from the sicknesses and infirmities of human life, and parti
cularly from those of women, that great moderation, and frequent
abstinence, are requisite. Nay, it even appears, that in many
circumstances marriage itself is not to be approved ; but rather
that men and women, who are advanced to or past the meridian
of life, who have a call to offices of religion, charity, &c. who
labour under certain hereditary distempers, have relations and
dependents that are necessitous, &c. should endeavour to subdue
the body by prayer and fasting. However, great care ought here
to be taken not to lay a snare before any one.
If we admit the doctrine of this last paragraph, viz. that these
pleasures are only permitted, and that they are marks of our
THE RULE OF LIFE. 469
fallen state, we may perhaps be enabled thereby to cast some
light upon the Scripture history of the Patriarchs and Jews.
We Christians who live in the more adult ages of mankind, have
stricter precepts, and are obliged to higher degrees of spirituality,
as we approach nearer to the spiritual kingdom of Christ ; and
yet some permissions are suitable to our state. No wonder, then,
that larger permissions were requisite in the gross, corporeal,
infant state of mankind, considered as one individual tending
ever from carnality to spirituality, in a manner analogous to that
of each person. However, these were only permissions to the
Jews and Patriarchs, not commands. It may perhaps be, that
while polygamy subsisted according to permission, the number
of women might be greater than that of men. This is indeed
mere hypothesis ; but such things deserve to be examined, as
soon as proper principles are discovered, upon which to proceed.
The proportional number of men destroyed by wars in ancient
times, appears to be much greater than it is now.
Here it may be asked, If it be requisite in certain persons not
to marry at all, and in every one to be abstinent, how can it be
said that this rule of life gives the maximum of those pleasures?
Now, with respect to those who never marry, at the same time
devoting themselves really and earnestly to God, to attend upon
him without distraction, it may be observed, that they enjoy the
peculiar privilege of being exempted from many of the great
cares and sorrows of this life ; and that the prophetical blessing of
the barren's having more children than she which hath an hus
band, is eminently applicable to them. They that marry, must
have sorrow in the flesh ; and if those who are under the necessity
of marrying, because they burn, humble themselves agreeably to
this experience of their own weakness, they will find marriage
to be a proper clew to lead them through the difficulties and
miseries of this life to a better state. But if a person, who is
likewise humble, can humbly hope, upon a fair examination, that
he is not under this necessity, there is no occasion that he should
take this burden upon him. The benevolent and devout affec
tions, though wanting one source, will, upon the whole, grow
faster from other causes ; and if he makes all with whom he has
any intercourses, all to whom his desires, prayers, and endear
vours, can extend, his spiritual children ; still with all humility,
and diffidence of himself, their spiritual ultimate happiness,
through the infinite mercy of God, will be a fund of joy far
superior to any that is, and must be, tinctured with the defile
ments of this world, as that of natural parents cannot but be.
As to these, i. e. the persons that marry, it is probable that they
approach to the maximum of the sensible pleasures much more
than the dissolute ; and if, in any case, they do, for the sake of
religion, forego any part of what is permitted, it cannot be
doubted, but this will be repaid with ample interest by spiritual
pleasures. But this subject is of too nice and difficult a nature
470 THE RULE OF LIFE.
to be farther pursued. Let those who need particular infor
mation apply to God for it ; and especially let them pray, that
they may join Christian prudence with Christian purity and
holiness.
It may also be asked here, if marriage be only permitted, and
celibacy preferable in the Christian sense of things, what be
comes of the propagation and increase of mankind, which seem
to have a necessary connexion with the greatest public good? I
answer, that this kind of cares is far above us, and therefore
foreign to our proper business ; whereas the precept, or admoni
tion rather to those who can receive it, is plain, and stands upon
the authority of the Christian revelation itself, and of the other
natural signatures of the divine will before-mentioned. I answer
also, that this world is a ruined world ; that it must be destroyed
by fire, as Sodom was, perhaps on account of our great corruption
in this respect ; so that its perfection in this state of things is
impossible, and therefore no end for us, though its correction and
melioration be, as far as we have opportunity ; that this admoni
tion cannot be received by all ; and therefore that the few, by
whom alone it can be received, may contribute more to the
increase of mankind by their promoting virtue, and restraining
vice, than any posterity of theirs could do ; and lastly, that, if it
could be observed by all, we should all be near to Christian
perfection, i. e. to the glorious kingdom of Christ, and the new
state of things. Observations of the same kind may be made
upon all the other gospel precepts. If these be kept in their
utmost purity by a few only, they seem to promote even tem
poral happiness upon the whole ; and this appears to be the truth
of the case, the real fact, since no directions or exhortations can
extend to and prevail with more than a few, in comparison of the
bulk of mankind, however good and earnest they may be.' If all
could be influenced at once, it would be still infinitely preferable,
because this would be life from, the dead, and the kingdom of
righteousness. But this seems impossible. We need not there
fore fear any intermediate degree. The more Christian purity
and perfection prevail, the better must it be on all real accounts,
whatever becomes of trade, arts, grandeur, &c.
Lastly, I cannot dismiss this subject without making some
remarks upon education. The desires between the sexes are far
-more violent than any others ; the final cause of which is by
writers very justly said to be, that men and women may be com
pelled, as it were, to undertake the necessary cares and labours,
that attend the married pair, in providing for themselves and
their offspring. But there is reason to believe from other parallel
cases, that these desires are not originally much disproportionate
to the end, and that, if due care was taken, they would not arise
in youth much before the proper time to set about this end,
before the bodies of the sexes were mature, able to endure labour
and fatigue, and the woman to undergo child-birth, with its
THE RULE OF LIFE. 471
consequences, of nursing the infant, &c. and their minds ripe for
the cares and foresight required in family affairs. Something of
this kind would probably happen, whatever care the parents took
of the bodies and minds of their children, on account of our
fallen degenerate state, our state of trial, which appears in all our
other bodily appetites, and intellectual desires. But the violence
and unseasonableness of these passions are so manifest in the
generality of young persons, that one cannot but conclude the
general education of youth to be grossly erroneous and perverted.
And this will appear very evident in fact upon examination. The
diet of children and young persons is not sufficiently plain and
sparing ; which would at the same time lay a better foundation
for health and freedom from diseases, and put some check upon
these passions. They are brought up in effeminacy, and neglect
of bodily labour, which would prepare both body and mind for
care and sorrow, and keep down carnal desire. The due culture
of the mind, especially in respect of religion, is almost univer
sally neglected ; so that they are unfit for business, left exposed
to temptations through idleness and want of employment, and
are destitute of the chief armour, that of religious motives,
whereby to oppose temptation. Lastly, the conversation which
they hear, and the books which they read, lewd heathen poets,
modern plays, romances, &c. are so corrupt in this respect, that
it is matter of astonishment, how a parent, who has any degree of
seriousness (I will not say religion) himself, or concern for his
child, can avoid seeing the immediate destructive consequences,
or think that any considerations, relating to this world, can be a
balance to these.
Prop. LIV.—To deduce practical Rules concerning the Hard
ships, Pains, and Uneasinesses,( that occur in the daily Inter
courses of Life.
I have already observed in general, Prop. LI. Cor. that a
regard to the precepts of benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense, affords us the best prospect for avoiding and lessening
these. I will now exemplify and apply this doctrine more par
ticularly.
First, then, It is evident that luxury, self-indulgence, and an
indolent aversion to perform the duties of a man's station, do not
only bring on gross bodily diseases ; but also previously to this,
are often apt to lead men into such a degree of solicitude, anxiety,
and fearfulness, in minute affairs, as to make them inflict upon
themselves greater torments, than the most cruel tyrant could
invent. The complaints, which are usually styled nervous, are
peculiarly apt to infest this class of persons ; and I need not say
to those, who either have themselves experienced them, or
attended to them in others, of how grievous a nature they are.
Now, though something is to be allowed here to natural con
472 THE RULE OF LIFE.
stitution, and hereditary tendencies, also to the great injuries
sometimes done to the nervous system by profuse evacuations,
and violent distempers, in consequence whereof it may be proper
and necessary in certain cases to administer such medicines as
are suitable to the particular symptoms and temporary exigencies;
yet there seems to be no way so probable of getting out of this
self-tormenting state, this labyrinth of error and anxiety, as by
prayer and resignation to God, by charity, and taking upon one's
self the cares and fears of others according to our rank and
station in life, easing our own burden thereby, and by constant,
laborious, bodily exercise, such particularly as occurs in the
faithful discharge of duty, with great moderation in the sensible
pleasures. Could the unhappy persons of this sort be prevailed
upon to enter on such a course with courage and steadiness,
notwithstanding the pains, difficulties, and uneasinesses, which
would attend it at first, all would generally begin to clear up
even in respect of this world, so as that they would regain some
tolerable degrees of health, serenity, and even cheerfulness.
Secondly, Human life is in so imperfect and disorderly a state,
on account of the fall, that it is impossible to avoid all excesses,
and hardships from heat, cold, hunger, accidents, &c. But then
these may be rendered harmless and easy to a great degree, by
accustoming the body to them ; which the constant and faithful
discharge of duty by each person in particular does, in respect of
those excesses and hardships that are most likely to befal him.
Thirdly, External injuries fall much to the share of the im
prudent. Now prudence is a virtue, i. e. a dictate of the moral
sense, and a command from God; and imprudence, agreeably
hereto, the manifest offspring of some vicious passion or other,
for the most part.
Fourthly, Bodily pains are often inflicted by men, either in the
way of public authority, or of private resentment and malice.
But it is very evident, that the benevolent must fare better in
this respect, than the malevolent and mischievous.
Fifthly, Whatever evils befal a man, religion, and the belief of a
happy futurity, enable him to support himself under them much
better than he could otherwise do. The true Christian not only
ought, but is also able, for the most part, to rejoice in tribulation.
And this is the genuine, ultimate, and indeed only perfect
solution of all difficulties relating to the pleasures and pains,
both sensible and intellectual. For, though it be certain, that a
benevolent and pious man has the fairest prospect for obtaining
sensible pleasure, and avoiding sensible pain, in general, and upon
a fair balance ; also that the more wicked any one is, the less
pleasure, and more pain, must he expect; yet still it will often
happen, that a person is obliged, from a sense of duty, from
benevolence, adherence to true religion, the dictates of conscience,
or a gospel precept, to forego pleasures, or endure pains, where
there is no probability that a recompence will be made during
THE RULE OF LIFE. 473
this life ; and sometimes it is required of a man even to seal his
testimony with his blood. Now in these cases, rational self-
interest has nothing left, which can satisfy its demands, besides
the hope and expectation of a happy futurity ; but the present
pleasure, which these afford, is some earnest of the thing hoped
and expected ; it is also, in certain cases, so great, as to over
power, and almost annihilate, the opposite pains.
Here let it be observed, that as this frail corruptible body must
at last return to its original dust, and lose its power of conveying
pleasure to us, which it does gradually for a long time before
death from mere old age ; so it is natural to expect that the
maximum of its pleasures should not always be attained, even by
that which is the genuine rule of life. For death is a mark of
our present fallen state ; and therefore we may have this farther
mark also, that the true rule, which, in a paradisiacal state,
would have carried every thing in its order to perfection, will
now do it only in the general; shewing us, first, by its being
very general, that it is the true rule; and secondly, by its
not being universal, that we have deviated from our original
make.
It may not be amiss to add a few words here concerning sleep.
The analogy taken from the foregoing rules teaches that we
ought not to indulge in this to the utmost, but to break it off a
little before the natural inclination thereto totally expires. And
this position is remarkably confirmed both by the many advan
tages to body and mind, which result from rising early ; and by
the scripture precepts concerning watching ; which, as appears to
me, ought to be taken as well in their strictly literal sense upon
proper occasions, as in their more distant and figurative one.
SECT. III.
OF THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF
IMAGINATION IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LV.—Hie Pleasures of Imagination ought not to be made
a primary Pursuit.
For, first, It does not appear that those who devote them
selves to the study of the polite arts, or of science, or to any
other pleasure of mere imagination, as their chief end and
pursuit, attain to a greater degree of happiness than the rest
of the world. The frequent repetition of these pleasures cloys,
as in other cases; and though the whole circle of them is so
474 THE RULE OF LIFE.
extensive, as that it might, in some measure, obviate this ob
jection ; yet the human fancy is too narrow to take in this whole
circle, and the greatest virtuosos do, in fact, seldom apply them
selves to more than one or two considerable branches. — The
ways in which the pleasures of beauty are usually generated, and
transferred upon the several objects, are often opposite to, and
inconsistent with, one another ; so as to mix deformity with
beauty, and to occasion an unpleasing discordancy of opinion,
not only in different persons, but even in the same. This is
evident from the foregoing history of these pleasures, and of
their derivation from arbitrary and accidental associations, as
well as from the observation of the fact in real life. And it
is not uncommon to see men, after a long and immoderate pur
suit of one class of beauty, natural or artificial, deviate into such
by-paths and singularities, as that the objects excite pain rather
than pleasure ; their limits for excellence and perfection being
narrow, and their rules absurd ; and all that falls short of these,
being condemned by them, as deformed and monstrous.—Emi
nent votaries of this kind are generally remarkable for ignorance
and imprudence in common necessary affairs ; and thus they are
exposed to much ridicule and contempt, as well as to other great
inconveniences.—The same persons are peculiarly liable to vanity,
self-conceit, censoriousness, moroseness, jealousy, and envy;
which surely are very uneasy companions in a man's own breast,
as well as the occasions of many insults and harms from abroad.—
And I think I may add, that scepticism in religious matters is
also a frequent attendant here ; which, if it could be supposed
free from danger as to futurity, is at least very uncomfortable as
to the present. For as the extravagant encomiums bestowed upon
works of taste and genius beget a more than ordinary degree of
self-conceit in the virtuoso ; so this self-conceit, this superiority
which he fancies he has over the rest of the world in one branch
of knowledge, is by himself often supposed to extend to the
rest, in which yet it is probable that he is uncommonly ignorant
through want of application ; and thus he becomes either dog
matical or sceptical ; the first of which qualities, though seem
ingly opposite to the last/ is, in reality, nearly related to it. And,
as the sympathetic and theopathetic affections are peculiarly
necessary for understanding matters of a religious nature aright,
no kind or degree of learning being sufficient for this purpose
without these, if the pursuit of literature, or science, be so strong,
as to stifle and suppress the growth of these, or to distort them,
religion, which cannot be reconciled to such a temper, will pro
bably be treated as incomprehensible, absurd, uncertain, or
incredible. However, it is difficult to represent justly, in any
of the respects here mentioned, what is the genuine consequence
of the mere pursuit of the pleasures of imagination, their votaries
being also, for the most part, extremely overrun with the gross
vice of ambition, as was just now observed. But then this does
THE RULE OF LIFE. 475
not invalidate any of the foregoing objections, as will be seen
when we come to consider that vice in the next Section.
Secondly, It is evident, that the pleasures of imagination were
not intended for our primary pursuit, because they are, in general,
the first of our intellectual pleasures, which are generated from
the sensible ones by association, come to their height early in
life, and decline in old age. There are indeed some few persons,
who continue devoted to them during life; but there are also
some, who remain sensualists to the last ; which singularities are,
however, in neither case, arguments of the design of Providence,
that it should be so. And, in general, we may reason here, as
we did above, in deducing the inferior value of the sensible,
pleasures from their being the lowest class. The pleasures of ima
gination are the next remove above the sensible ones, and have, in
their proper place and degree, a great efficacy in improving and
perfecting our natures. They are to men in the early part of
their adult age, what playthings are to children ; they teach them
a love for regularity, exactness, truth, simplicity ; they lead them
to the knowledge ofmany important truths relating to themselves,
the external world, and its Author; they habituate to invent, and
reason by analogy and induction ; and when the social, moral,
and religious affections begin to be generated in us, we may make
a much quicker progress towards the perfection of our natures
by having a due stock, and no more than a due stock, of know
ledge in natural and artificial things, of a relish for natural and
artificial beauty. It deserves particular notice here, that the
language used in respect of the ideas, pleasures, and pains of
imagination, is applicable to those of the moral sense with a
peculiar fitness and significancy ; as, vice versd, the proper lan
guage of the moral sense does, in many cases, add great beauty
to poetry, oratory, &c. when used catachrestically. And we may
observe in general, that as the pleasures of imagination are mani
festly intended to generate and augment the higher orders, par
ticularly those of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense ; so
these last may be made to improve and perfect those, as 1 shall
now endeavour to shew under the proposition that follows.
Prop. LVI.— Tlie Pursuit of the Pleasures of Imagination ought
to be regulated by the Precepts of Benevolence, Piety, and the
Moral Sense.
For, first, Those parts of the arts and sciences which bring
glory to God, and advantage to mankind, which inspire devotion,
and instruct us how to be useful to others, abound with more
and greater beauties, than such as are profane, mischievous, un
profitable, or minute. Thus the study of the Scriptures, of
natural history, and natural philosophy, of the frame of the
human mind, &c. when undertaken and pursued with bene
volent and pious intentions, lead to more elegant problems, and
476 THE RULE OF LIFE.
surprising discoveries than any study intended for mere private
amusement.
Secondly, It may be considered as a reason for this, that since
this world is a system of benevolence, and consequently its
Author the object of unbounded love and adoration, benevolence
and piety are the only true guides in our inquiries into it, the
only keys which will unlock the mysteries of nature, and clews
which lead through her labyrinths. Of this all branches of
natural history and natural philosophy, afford abundant instances;
and the same thing may be said of civil history, when illustrated
and cleared by the Scriptures, so as to open to view the successive
dispensations of God to mankind ; but it has been more parti
cularly taken notice of in the frame of the human body, and in
the symptoms and tendencies of distempers. In all these matters
let the inquirer take it for granted previously, that every thing is
right, and the best that it can be, cceteris manentibus; i.e. let
him, with a pious confidence, seek for benevolent purposes; and
he will be always directed to the right road, and, after a due con
tinuance in it, attain to some new and valuable truth ; whereas
every other principle and motive of examination, being foreign
to the great plan upon which the universe is constructed, must
lead into endless mazes, errors, and perplexities.
Thirdly, It may be considered as a farther reason of the same
thing, that benevolence and piety, and by consequence, their
offspring, the moral sense, are the only things which can give a
genuine and permanent lustre to the truths that are discovered.
A man with the most perfect comprehension that his faculties
will allow, of that infinite profusion of good which overflows the
whole creation, and of all the fountains and conduits of it, and
yet having no share of the original source from whence all these
were derived, having no pittance or ray of the inexhaustible
benevolence of the great Creator, no love for that boundless
ocean of love, or sense of duty to him, would be no more happy,
than an accomptant is rich by reckoning up millions, or a miser
by possessing them.
Fourthly, It may be remarked, that the pleasures of imagina
tion point to devotion in a particular manner by their unlimited
nature. For all beauty, both natural and artificial, begins to
fade and languish after a short acquaintance with it : novelty is
a never-failing requisite : we look down, with indifference and
contempt, upon what we comprehend easily ; and are ever aiming
at, and pursuing, such objects as are but just within the compass
of our present faculties. What is it now that we ought to learn
from this dissatisfaction to look behind us, and tendency to press
forward ; from this endless grasping after infinity ? Is it not,
that the Infinite Author of all things has so formed our faculties,
that nothing less than himself can be an adequate object for
them ? That it is in vain to hope for full and lasting satisfaction
from any thing finite, however great and glorious, since it will
THE RULE OF LIFE.
itself teach us to conceive and desire something still more so?
That as nothing can give us more than a transitory delight, if its
relation to God be excluded, so every thing, when considered as
the production of his infinite wisdom and goodness, will gratify
our utmost expectations, since we may, in this view, see that
every thing has infinite uses and excellences ? There is not an
atom perhaps in the whole universe, which does not abound with
millions of worlds; and, conversely, this great system of the sun,
planets, and fixed stars, may be no more than a single constituent
particle of some body of an immense relative magnitude, &c. In
like manner, there is not a moment of time so small, but it may
include millions of ages in the estimation of some beings ; and,
conversely, the largest cycle which human art is able to invent,
may be no more than the twinkling of an eye in that of others, &c.
The infinite divisibility and extent of space and time admit of
such infinities upon infinities, ascending and descending, as make
the imagination giddy, when it attempts to survey them. But,
however this be, we may be sure, that the true system of things
is infinitely more transcendent in greatness and goodness, than
any description or conception of ours can make it ; and that the
voice of nature is an universal chorus of joy and transport, in
which the least and vilest, according to common estimation, bear
a proper part, as well as those whose present superiority over
them appears indefinitely great, and may bear an equal one in
the true and ultimate ratio of things. And thus the consideration
of God gives a relish and lustre to speculations, which are other
wise dry and unsatisfactory, or which perhaps would confound
and terrify. Thus we may learn to rejoice in every thing we see,
in the blessings past, present, and future ; which we receive either
in our own persons, or in those of others ; to become partakers
of the divine nature, loving and lovely, holy and happy.
Prop. LVII.—To deduce practical Mules concerning the Ele
gancies and Amusements of Life.
By the elegancies of life I mean the artificial beauties of houses,
gardens, furniture, dress, &c. which are so much studied in high
life. There is in these, as in all other things, a certain middle
point, which coincides with our duty, and our happiness ; whilst
all great deviations from it incur the censure of viciousness, or,
at least, of unsuitableness and absurdity. But it is not easy to
determine this point exactly, in the several circumstances of each
particular person. I will here set down the principal reasons
against an excess on each hand, leaving it to every person to
judge for himself how far they hold in his own particular cir
cumstances.
We may then urge against the immoderate pursuit of the
elegancies of life ;
First, That vanity, ostentation, and the unlawful pleasures of
478 THE RULE OF LIFE.
property, of calling things our own, are almost inseparable
from the pursuit of these elegancies, and often engross all to
themselves.
Secondly, That the profusion of expense requisite here is
inconsistent with the charity due to those, that are afflicted in
mind, body, and estate.
Thirdly, That the beauties of nature are far superior to all
artificial ones, Solomon in all his glory not being arrayed like a
lily of the field ; that they are open to every one, and therefore
rather restrain than feed the desire of property ; and that they
lead to humility, devotion, and the study of the ways of Providence.
We ought therefore much rather to apply ourselves to the con
templation of natural than of artificial beauty.
Fourthly, Even the beauties of nature are much chequered
with irregularities and deformities, this world being only the
ruins of a paradisiacal one. We must not therefore expect entire
order and perfection in it, till we have passed through the gate
of death, and are arrived at our second paradisiacal state, till the
heavens and earth, and all things in them, be made anew. How
much less then can we hope for perfection in the works of human
art ! And yet, if we seriously apply ourselves to these, we shall
be very apt to flatter ourselves with such false hopes, and to forget
that heavenly country, the desire and expectation of whose glories
and beauties can alone carry us through the present wilderness
with any degree of comfort and joy.
But then, on the contrary, that some attention may lawfully,
and even ought to be paid to artificial beauty, will appear from
the following reasons.
First, Convenience and utility are certainly lawful ends ; nay,
we are even sent hither to promote these publicly and privately.
But these coincide, for the most part, with, and are promoted by,
simplicity, neatness, regularity, and justness of proportion, i. e.
with some of the sources of artificial beauty; though not with
all ; such as grandeur, profuse variety, accumulation of natural
beauties and lustres, and sumptuousness.
Secondly, The study of artificial beauty draws us off from the
gross sensual pleasures; refines and spiritualizes our desires;
and, when duly limited, teaches us to transfer and apply our ideas
of simplicity, uniformity, and justness of proportion, to the heart
and affections.
Thirdly, It is necessary for us in this degenerate state, and
world of temptations, to be occupied in innocent pursuits, lest we
fall into such as are mischievous and sinful. It is therefore, in
its proper place and degree, as great charity to mankind to em
ploy the poor in improving and ornamenting external things,
rewarding them generously and prudently for their labours, as to
give alms ; and as useful to the rich to be employed in contriving
and conducting such designs at certain times, as to read, meditate,
or pray, at others. Our natures are too feeble to be always
THE RULE OF LIFE. 479
strained to the pitch of an active devotion or charity, so that we
must be content at some intervals to take up with engagements
that are merely innocent, sitting loose to them, and pursuing
them without eagerness and intention of mind. However, let it
be well observed, that there are very few upon whom this third
reason for the pursuit of artificial beauty need be inculcated ; and
that I presume not at all to interfere with those holy persons,
who find themselves able to devote all their talents, their whole
time, fortunes, bodily and mental abilities, &c. to the great
Author of all, in a direct and immediate manner.
Now these, and such like reasons, for and against the pursuit of
the elegancies of life, hold in various degrees according to the
several circumstances of particular persons ; and it will not be
difficult for those who sit loose to the world, and its vanities, to
balance them against one another in each case, so as to approach
nearly to that medium wherein our duty and happiness coincide.
The practice of playing at games of chance and skill is one of
the principal amusements of life ; and it may be thought hard to
condemn it as absolutely unlawful, since there are particular
cases of persons infirm in body or mind, where it seems requisite
to draw them out of themselves, by a variety of ideas and ends
in view, which gently engage the attention. But this reason
takes place in very few instances. The general motives to play
are avarice, joined with a fraudulent intention, explicit or im
plicit, ostentation of skill, and spleen through the want of some
serious, useful occupation. And as this practice arises from such
corrupt sources, so it has a tendency to increase them; and
indeed may be considered as an express method of begetting and
inculcating self-interest, ill-will, envy, &c. For by gaming a man
learns to pursue his own interest solely and explicitly, and to
rejoice at the loss of others, as his own gain ; grieve at their gain,
as his own loss ; thus entirely reversing the order established by
Providence for social creatures, in which the advantage of one
meets in the same point as the advantage of another, and their
disadvantage likewise. Let the loss of time, health, fortune,
reputation, serenity of temper, &c. be considered also.
Prop. LVIII.—To deduce practical Rules concerning Mirth,
Wit, and Humour.
Here it is necessary,
First, To avoid all such mirth, wit, and humour, as has any
mixture of profaneness in it, i. e. all such as lessens our reverence
to God, and religious subjects : aggrieves our neighbour, or
excites corrupt and impure inclinations in ourselves. Since then
it appears from the history of wit and humour, given in the
foregoing part of this work, that the greatest part of what passes
under these names, and that which strikes us most, has a sinful
tendency, it is necessary to be extremely moderate and cautious
480 THE RULE OF LIFE.
in our mirth, and in our attention to, and endeavours after, wit
and humour.
Secondly, Let us suppose the mirth to be innocent, and kept
within due bounds ; still the frequent returns of it beget a levity
and dissipation of mind, that are by no means consistent with
that seriousness and watchfulness which are required in Chris
tians, surrounded with temptations, and yet aiming at purity
and perfection; in strangers and pilgrims, who ought to have
the uncertain time of their departure hence always in view. We
may add, that wit and humour, by arising, for the most part,
from fictitious contrasts and coincidences, disqualify the mind for
the pursuit after truth, and attending to the useful practical
relations of things, as has already been observed in the history
of them ; and that the state of the brain which accompanies
mirth cannot subsist long, or return frequently, without injuring
it; but must, from the very frame of our natures, end at last in
the opposite state of sorrow, dejection, and horror.
Thirdly, There is, for the most part, great vain-glory and
ostentation in all attempts after wit and humour. Men of wit
seek to be admired and caressed by others for the poignancy,
delicacy, brilliancy, of their sayings, hints, and repartees ; and
are perpetually racking their inventions from this desire of
applause. Now, as so sinful a motive must defile all that pro
ceeds from it, so the straining our faculties to an unnatural
pitch is inconsistent with- that ease and equality in conversation,
which our social nature, and a mutual desire to please, and be
pleased require.
Fourthly, A due attention being previously paid to the fore
going and such like cautions, it seems not only allowable, but
even requisite, to endeavour at a state of perpetual cheerfulness,
and to allow ourselves to be amused and diverted by the modest,
innocent pleasantries of our friends and acquaintance, contri
buting also ourselves thereto, as far as is easy and natural to us.
This temper of mind flows from benevolence and sociality, and in
its turn begets them ; it relieves the mind, and qualifies us for
the discharge of serious and afflicting duties, when the order of
Providence lays them upon us; is a mark of uprightness and
indifference to the world, this infantine gaiety of heart being
most observable in those who look upon all that the world offers
as mere toys and amusements ; and it helps to correct, in our
selves and others, many little follies and absurdities, which,
though they scarce deserve a severer chastisement, yet ought not
to be overlooked entirely.
Prop. LIX.—To deduce practical Rules concerning the Pursuit
of the polite Arts ; and particularly of Music, Painting, and
Poetry.
I will here enumerate the principal ways in which the three
sister arts of music, painting, and poetry, contribute either to
THE RULE OF LIFE. 48 1
corrupt or improve our minds ; as it will thence appear in what
manner, and to what degree, they are allowable, or even com
mendable, and in what cases to be condemned as the vanities and
sinful pleasures of the world, abjured by all sincere Christians.
First, then, It is evident, that most kinds of music, painting,
and poetry, have close connexions with vice, particularly with
the vices of intemperance and lewdness; that they represent
them in gay, pleasing colours, or, at least, take off from the
abhorrence due to them; that they cannot be enjoyed without
evil communications, and concurrence in the pagan show and
pomp of the world ; and that they introduce a frame of mind,
quite opposite to that of devotion, and earnest concern for our
own and other's future welfare. This is evident of public diver
sions, collections of pictures, academies for painting, statuary, &c.
ancient heathen poetry, modern poetry of most kinds, plays,
romances, &c. If there be any who doubt of this, it must be
from the want of a duly serious frame of mind.
Secondly, A person cannot acquire any great skill in these
arts, either as a critic, or a master of them, without a great
consumption of time: they are very apt to excite vanity, self-
conceit, and mutual flatteries, in their votaries ; and, in many
cases, the expense of fortunes is too considerable to be recon
ciled to the charity and beneficence due to the indigent.
Thirdly, All these arts are capable of being devoted to the
immediate service of God and religion in an eminent manner;
and, when so devoted, they not only improve and exalt the mind,
but are themselves improved and exalted to a much higher
degree, than when employed upon profane subjects ; the dignity
and importance of the ideas and scenes drawn from religion
adding a peculiar force and lustre thereto. And, upon the
whole, it will follow, that the polite arts are scarce to be allowed,
except when consecrated to religious purposes ; but that here
their cultivation may be made an excellent means of awakening
and alarming our affections, and transferring them upon their
true objects.
Prop. LX.— To deduce practical Rules concerning the Pursuit of
Science.
By the pursuit of science I here mean the investigation of
such truths as offer themselves in the study of the several
branches of knowledge enumerated in the first part of this work ;
philology, mathematics, logic, history, civil and natural, natural
philosophy, and theology, or divine philosophy. Now here we
may observe,
First, That though the pursuit of truth be an entertainment
and employment suitable to our rational natures, and a duty to
Him who is the fountain of all knowledge and truth, yet we must
make frequent intervals and interruptions ; else the study of
i i
482 THE RULE OF LIFE.'
science, without a view to God and our duty, and from a vain
desire of applause, will get possession of our hearts, engross them
wholly, and by taking deeper root than the pursuit of vain
amusements, become in the end a much more dangerous and
obstinate evil than that. Nothing can easily exceed the vain
glory, self-conceit, arrogance, emulation, and envy, that are found
in the eminent professors of the sciences, mathematics, natural
philosophy, and even divinity itself. Temperance in these studies
is therefore evidently required, both in order to check the rise of
such ill passions, and to give room for the cultivation of other
essential parts of our natures. It is with these pleasures as with
the sensible ones ; our appetites must not be made the measure
of our indulgences ; but we ought to refer all to a higher rule.
Secondly, When the pursuit of truth is directed by this higher
rule, and entered upon with a view to the glory of God, and the
good of mankind, there is no employment more worthy of our
natures, or more conducive to their purification and perfection.
These are the wise, who in the time of the end shall understand,
and make an increase of knowledge ; who, by studying and com
paring together, the word and works of God, shall be enabled to
illustrate and explain both; and who, by turning many to righteous
ness, shall themselves shine as the stars for ever and ever.
But we are not to confine this blessing to those who are called
learned men, in the usual sense of this word. Devotion, charity,
prayer, have a wonderful influence upon those who read the
Scriptures, and contemplate the works of creation, with a practical
intention; and enable persons otherwise illiterate, not only to see
and feel the important truths therein manifested, for their own
private purposes, but to preach and inculcate them upon others
with singular efficacy and success.
Prop. LXI.—To deduce practical Rules concerning the Igno
rance, Difficulties, and Perplexities, in which we find ourselves
involved.
These are pains, which ought to be referred to the head of
imagination, as above noted ; and which therefore require to be
considered here. But it must also be observed, that self-interest
has no small share in increasing these pains ; our ignorance and
perplexity occasioning the most exquisite uneasiness to us in
those instances, where our future happiness and misery are at
stake. Thus, in the difficulties which attend our inquiries into
the origin of evil, free-will, the nature of our future existence,
the degree and duration of future punishment, and the moral
attributes of God, our uneasiness arises not only from the dark
ness which surrounds these subjects, and the jarring of our con
clusions, but from the great importance of these conclusions.
The following practical rules deserve our attention.
First, To avoid all wrangling and contention, all bitterness and
THE RULE OF LIFE. 483
censoriousness, in speaking or writing upon these subjects.
This is a rule which ought to extend to all debates and inquiries
upon every subject; but it is more peculiarly requisite to be
attended to in difficult ones of a religious nature ; inasmuch as
these ill dispositions of mind are most unsuitable to religion, and
yet most apt to arise in abstruse and high speculations ; also as
they increase the pains considered in this proposition by being of
a nature nearly related to them, i. e. by being attended with a
nearly related state of the brain.
Secondly, We ought to lay it down as certain, that this
perplexity and uneasiness commenced with the fall, with the
eating of the fruit of tHe tree of the knowledge of good and evil ;
and that it can never be entirely removed till our readmission to
paradise, and to the tree whose leaves are for the healing of the
nations. We must expect therefore, that, though humble and
pious inquiries will always be attended with some success and
illumination, still much darkness and ignorance will remain.
And the expectation of this will contribute to make us easy
under it.
Thirdly, The Scriptures give us reason to hope, that this, as
well as the rest of our evils, will be removed in a future state.
We may therefore, if we labour to secure our happiness in a
future state, enjoy, as it were by anticipation, this important
part of it, that we shall then see God and live, see him, though
he be invisible, see him as he is, and know as we are known.
Lastly, Of whatever kind or degree our perplexity be, an
implicit confidence in the infinite power, knowledge, and goodness
of God, which are manifested, both in his word and works, in so
great a variety of ways, is a certain refuge. If our ideas of the
divine attributes be sufficiently strong and practical, their great
ness and gloriousness, and the joy arising from them, will over
power any gloominess or dissatisfaction, which a narrow and
partial view of things may excite in us.
SECT. IV.
OF THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES OF HONOUR, AND
THE PAINS OF SHAME, IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXII.—The pleasures of Honour ought not to be made a
primary Pursuit.
This may appear from the following considerations.
First, Because an eager desire of, and endeavour after, the
i I 2
484. THE RULE OF LIFE.
pleasures of honour, has a manifest tendency to disappoint itself.
The merit of actions, i. e. that property of them for which they
are extolled, and the agents loved and esteemed, is, that they
proceed from benevolence, or some religious or moral considera
tion ; whereas, if the desire of praise be only in part the motive,
we rather censure than commend. But, if praise be supposed
the greatest good, the desire of it will prevail above the other
desires, and the person will by degrees be led on to vanity, self-
conceit, and pride, vices that are most contemptible in the sight
of all. For whosoever exalteth himself, shall be abased ; and he
that humbleth himself, shall be exalted.
Secondly, What shall be the matter of the encomiums, if
praise be the supreme good of the species? What is there, to
which all can attain, and which all shall agree to commend and
value? Not external advantages, such as riches, beauty,
strength, &c. These are neither in the power of all, nor univer
sally commended. Not great talents, wit, sagacity, memory,
invention. These, though more the subject of encomiums, yet
fall to the lot of very few only. In short, virtue alone is both
universally esteemed, and in the power of all, who are sufficiently
desirous to attain it. But virtue cannot consist with the pursuit
of praise, much less with its being made a primary pursuit. It
follows therefore, that it ought not to be made such.
Thirdly, If it be said, that those who enjoy great external
advantages, or are blest with happy talents, may perhaps pursue
praise with success ; I answer, that the numberless competitions
and superiorities of others, follies ajid infirmities of a man's self,
mistakes and jealousies of those from whom he expects praise,
make this quite impossible in general. Nay, it is evident from
the very nature of praise, which supposes something extraor
dinary in the thing praised, that it cannot be the lot of many.
So that he who pursues it, must either have a very good opinion
of himself, which is a dangerous circumstance in a seeker of
praise, or allow that there are many chances against him.
Fourthly, If we recollect the history of these pleasures deli
vered above, we shall see, that though children are pleased with
encomiums upon any advantageous circumstances, that relate to
them, yet this wears off by degrees ; and, as we advance in life,
we learn more and more to confine our pleasures of this kind to
things in our power, (according to the common acceptation of
these words), and to virtue. In like manner, the judicious part
of mankind, i. e. those whose praise is most valued, give it not
except to virtue. Here, then, again, is a most manifest subser
viency of these pleasures to virtue. They not only tell us, that
they are not our primary pursuit, or ultimate end, but also shew
us what is. ,
Fifthly, The early rise of these pleasures, and their declension
in old age, for the most part, are arguments to the same purpose,
and may be illustrated by the similar observations made on the
THE RULE OF LIFE. 4S5
pleasures of sensation and imagination, being not so obvious here
as there.
Sixthly, There is something extremely absurd and ridiculous
in supposing a person to be perpetually feasting his own mind
with, and dwelling upon, the praises that already are, or which
he hopes will hereafter be, given to him. And yet, unless a man
does this, which besides would evidently incapacitate him for
deserving or obtaining praise, how can he fill up a thousandth
part of his time with the pleasures of ambition ?
Seventhly, Men that are much commended, presently think
themselves above the level of the rest of the world; and it is
evident, that praise from inferiors wants much of that high relish,
which ambitious men expect, or even that it disgusts. It is
even uneasy and painful to a man to hear himself commended,
though he may think it his due, by a person that is not qualified
to judge. And, in this view of things, a truly philosophic and
religious mind sees presently, that all the praises of all mankind
are very trivial and insipid.
Eighthly, As the desire of praise carries us perpetually from
less to larger circles of applauders, at greater distances of time
and place, so it necessarily inspires us with an eager hope of a
future life ; and this hope alone is a considerable presumption in
favour of the thing hoped for. Now it will appear from number
less arguments, some of which are mentioned in these papers,
that every evidence for a future life is also an evidence in favour
of virtue, and of its superior excellence as the end of life; and
vice versa. The pleasures of ambition lead therefore, in this way
also, from themselves, since they lead to those of virtue. Let it
be considered farther, that all reflections upon a future life, the
new scenes which will be unfolded there, and the discovery which
will then be made of the secrets of all hearts, must cast a great
damp upon every ambition, but a virtuous one ; and beget great
diffidence even in those, who have the best testimony from their
consciences.
Prop. LXIII.—The Pleasures of Honour may be obtained in
their greatest Degree, and highest Perfection, by paying a
strict Regard to the Precepts of Benevolence, Piety, and the
moral Sense.
This appears, in part, from what has been delivered under the
last proposition ; but it may be farther confirmed by the follow
ing remarks.
First, Benevolence, piety, and the moral sense, engage men to
obtain all such qualifications, and to perform all such actions, as
are truly honourable. They preserve them also from that osten
tation in respect both of these and other things, which would
render them ridiculous and contemptible. Indeed honour is
affixed by the bulk of mankind, after some experience of men
486 THE RULE OF LIFE.
and things, chiefly to acts of generosity, compassion, public
spirit, &c. i. e. to acts of benevolence, and the encomiums
bestowed upon such acts are one of the principal sources of the
moral sense. The maximum of honour must therefore coincide
with benevolence, and the moral sense, and consequently with
piety also, which is closely connected with them.
It may be objected here, that acts of direct piety are not, in
general, honourable in this profane world ; but, on the contrary,
that they expose to the charges of enthusiasm, superstition, and
folly ; and this not only from the grossly vicious, but, in some
cases, even from the bulk of mankind. And it must be allowed,
that some deductions ought to be made on this account ; but then
let it be considered, that it is impossible to obtain the applauses
both of the good and the bad ; that, as those of the last scarce
afford pleasure to any, so their censure need not be feared ; and
that such persons as are truly devout, as regard God in all
their actions, and men only in subordination to him, are not
affected by the contempt and reproaches of the world ; but, on
the contrary, rejoice when men revile them, and speak all manner
of evil against them falsely for the sake of Christ. Let it be
observed farther, that humility is the principal of all the qualifi
cations which recommend men to the world ; and that it is diffi
cult, or even impossible, to attain this great virtue without piety,
without a high veneration for the infinite majesty of God, and a
deep sense of our own nothingness and vileness in his sight; so
that, in an indirect way, piety may be said to contribute emi
nently to obtain the good opinion of the world.
Secondly, It is plain from the above delivered history of
honour, as paid to external advantages, to bodily, intellectual,
and moral accomplishments, that happiness of some kind or
other, accruing to a man's self, or to the world by his means, is
the source of all honour, immediately, or mediately. He there
fore who is most happy in himself, and most the cause of happi
ness to others, must in the end, from the very law of our natures,
have the greatest quantity of honourable associations transferred
upon him. But we have already shewn in part, and shall shew
completely in the progress of this chapter, that benevolence,
piety, and the moral sense, are the only true, lasting foundations
of private happiness ; and that the public happiness arises from
them, cannot be doubted by any one. The benevolent, pious,
and conscientious person must therefore, when duly known, and
rightly understood, obtain all the honour which men, good or
bad, can bestow ; and, as the honour from the first is alone
valuable, so he may expect to receive it early, as an immediate
reward and support to his present virtues, and an incitement to
a daily improvement in them.
Thirdly, For the same reason that we desire honour, esteem,
and approbation, from men, and particularly from the wise and
good ; we must desire them from superior good beings, and,
THE RULE OF LIFE. 4ST
above all, from God, the highest and best. Or, if we do not
desire this, it must arise from such an inattention to the real and
most important of all relations, as cannot consist with true
happiness. Now a regard to benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense, is, by the confession of all, the sole foundation for obtain
ing this greatest of honours, the approbation of God. We cannot
indeed enjoy this in perfection, whilst separated from the invisible
world by this fleshly tabernacle ; but the testimony of a good
conscience gives us some foretaste and anticipation of it. How
vain and insipid, in respect of this eternal weight ofglory, are all
the encomiums which all mankind could bestow!
Prop. LXIV.—To deduce practical Observations on the Nature
of Humility, and the Methods of attaining it.
Here we may observe,
First, That humility cannot require any man to think worse
of himself than according to truth and impartiality : this would
be to set the virtues at variance with each other, and to found
one of the most excellent of them, humility, in the base vice of
falsehood.
Secondly, True humility consists therefore in having right and
just notions of our own accomplishments and defects, of our own
virtues and vices. For we ought not to descend lower than this
by the foregoing paragraph ; and to ascend higher, would evi
dently be pride, as well as falsehood.
Thirdly, It follows, notwithstanding this definition of humility,
and even from it, that humble men, especially in the beginning
of a religious course, ought to be much occupied in considering
and impressing upon themselves their own misery, imperfection,
and sinfulness, excluding, as much as possible, all thoughts, and
trains of thought, of a contrary nature ; also in attending to the
perfections of others, and rejecting the consideration of their
imperfections. For since all thoughts which please are apt to
recur frequently, and their contraries to be kept out of sight,
from the very frame of the mind, as appears from Prop. XXII.
Cor. III. and other places of the first part of this work, it cannot
but be, that all men in their natural state must be proud ; they
must, by dwelling upon their own perfections, and the imper
fections of others, magnify these ; by keeping out of view the
contraries, diminish them, i. e. they must form too high opinions
of themselves, and too low ones of others, which is pride : and
they cannot arrive at just and true opinions of themselves and
others, which is humility, but by reversing the former steps, and
impressing upon themselves their own imperfection and vileness,
and the perfections of others, by express acts of volition.
Fourthly, A truly humble man will avoid comparing himself
with others; and when such comparisons do arise in the mind,
or are forced upon it, he will not think himself better than
488 THE RULE OF LIFE.
others. I do not mean, that those who are eminent for know
ledge or virtue, should not see and own their superiority, in
these respects, over persons evidently ignorant and illiterate, or
avowedly vicious. This cannot be avoided ; but then this supe
riority does not minister any food to pride, and a vain com
placence in a man's own excellencies. Nor do I mean, that
good men may not both humbly hope that they themselves are
within the terms of salvation, and also fear that the bulk of man
kind are not; the first being a support to their infant virtue,
and a comfort allowed by God in their passage through this
wilderness; the last a great security against infection from a
wicked world. I only affirm, that every person, who is duly
aware of his own ignorance, as to the secret causes of merit and
demerit in himself and others, will first find himself incapable
of judging between individuals ; and then, if he has duly studied
his own imperfections, according to the last paragraph, he will
not be apt to presume in his own favour.
Fifthly, It is an inseparable property of humility, not to seek
the applauses of the world ; but to acquiesce in the respect paid
by it, however disproportionate this may be to the merit of the
action under consideration. For the contrary behaviour must
produce endless inquietude, resentment, envy, and self-conceit.
Sixthly, It is, in like manner, inseparable from true humility,
to take shame to ourselves where we have deserved it, to acquiesce
under it where we think we have not, and always to suspect our
own judgment in the last case. There is no way so short and
efficacious as this to mortify that pride, and overweening opinion
of ourselves, which is the result of our frame in this degenerate
state. Nay, we ought even to rejoice when we are meanly
esteemed, and despised, as having then an opportunity offered of
imitating Him who was meek and lowly in heart, and offinding
rest to our souls thereby.
Seventhly, It may conduce to eradicate that tendency which
every man has to think himself a nonpareil, in some respect or
other, to consider natural productions, flowers, fruits, gems, &c.
It would be very absurd to affirm of one of these, that it was a
nonpareil in its kind, because it is endued with great beauty and
lustre ; much less therefore ought we to fancy this of that degree
of beauty, parts, virtue, which happens to be our lot, and which
is certainly magnified beyond the truth in our own eyes, from
the interest which we have in ourselves.
Eighthly, There is scarce a more effectual method of curbing
ostentation and self-conceit, than frequently to impose upon one's
self a voluntary silence, and not to attempt to speak, unless
where a plain reason requires it. Voluntary silence is, in respect
of ostentation and self-conceit, what fasting is, in respect of
luxury and self-indulgence. All persons, who speak much, and
with pleasure, intend to engage the attention, and gain the
applause, of the audience ; and have a high opinion of their own
THE RULE OF LIFE. 489
talents. And if this daily, I may say hourly, source and effect
of vain-glory was cut off, we might with much greater facility
get the victory over the rest. When a person has, by this means,
reduced himself to a proper indifference to the opinions of the
world, he may by degrees abate of the rigour of his silence, and
speak naturally and easily, as occasion offers, without any explicit
motive; just as when fasting, and other severities, have brought
our appetites within due bounds, we may be directed by them in
the choice and quantity of common wholesome foods.
Ninthly, The doctrine of philosophical free-will is the cause
and support of much pride and self-conceit ; and this so much
the more, as it is a doctrine not only allowed, but even insisted
upon and required, and made essential to the distinction between
virtue and vice. Hence men are commanded, as it were, to set
a value upon their own actions, by esteeming them their own in
the highest sense of the words, and taking the merit of them to
themselves. For philosophical free-will supposes, that God has
given to each man a sphere of action, in which he does not inter
pose ; but leaves man to act entirely from himself, independently
of his Creator ; and as, upon this foundation, the assertors of
philosophical free-will ascribe all the demerit of actions to men,
so they are obliged to allow men to take the merit of good
actions to themselves, *. e. to be proud and self-conceited. This
is the plain consequence of the doctrine of philosophical free-will.
How far this objection against it over-balances the objections
brought against the opposite doctrine of mechanism, I do not
here consider. But it was necessary, in treating of the methods
of attaining true humility, to shew in what relation the doctrine
of free-will stood to this subject.
But we are not to suppose, that every man who maintains
philosophical free-will, does also claim the merit of his good
actions to himself. The Scriptures are so full and explicit in
ascribing all that is good to God, and the heart of a good man
concurs so readily with them, that he will rather expose himself
to any perplexity of understanding, than to the charge of so
great an impiety. Hence it is, that we see, in the writings of
many good men, philosophical free-will asserted, on one hand ;
and merit disclaimed, on the other ; in both cases, with a view to
avoid consequences apparently impious ; though it be impossible
to reconcile these doctrines to each other. However, this
subjection of the understanding to the moral principle is a noble
instance of humility, and rectitude of heart.
As the assertors of philosophical free-will are not necessarily
proud, so the assertors of the doctrine of mechanism are much
less necessarily humble. For, however they may, in theory,
ascribe all to God, yet the associations of life beget the idea and
opinion of self again and again, refer actions to this self, and
connect a variety of applauses and complacences with these
actions. Nay, men may be proud of those actions, which they
490 THE RULE OF LIFE.
directly and explicitly ascribe to God, i. e. proud that they are
instruments in the hand of God for the performing such actions.
Thus the Pharisee, in our Saviour's parable, though he thanked
God that he was no extortioner, &c. yet boasted of this, and
made it a foundation for despising the publican. However, the
frequent recollection, that all our actions proceed from God;
that we have nothing which we did not receive from him ; that
there can be no reason in ourselves why he should select one
rather than another for an instrument of his glory in this world,
&c. and the application of these important truths to the various
real circumstances of our lives ; must greatly accelerate our pro
gress to humility and self-annihilation. And, when men are far
advanced in this state, they may enjoy quiet and comfort, not
withstanding their past sins and frailties ; for they approach to
the paradisiacal state, in which our first parents, though naked,
were not ashamed. But the greatest caution is requisite here,
lest by a fresh obedience we come to know evil as well as good
again, and by desiring to be gods, to be independent, make the
return of shame, punishment, and mystical death, necessary for
our re-admission to the tree of life.
Tenthly, It will greatly recommend humility to us, to consider
how much misery a disposition to glory in our superiority over
others may hereafter occasion. Let it be observed, therefore,
that every finite perfection, how great soever, is at an infinitely
greater distance from the infinite perfection of God, than from
nothing ; so that every finite being may have, and probably has,
infinitely more superiors than inferiors. But the same disposi
tion which makes him glory over his inferiors, must make him
envy his superiors : he will therefore have, from this his disposi
tion, infinitely more cause to grieve than to rejoice. And it
appears from this way of considering things, that nothing could
enable us to bear the lustre of the invisible world, were it opened
to our view, but humility, self-annihilation, and the love of God,
and of his creatures, in and through him.
Eleventhly, If we may be allowed to suppose all God's creatures
ultimately and indefinitely happy, according to the third supposi
tion made above for explaining the infinite goodness of God, this
would unite the profoundest humility with the highest gratifica
tion of our desires after honour. For this makes all God's
creatures equal in the eye of their Creator ; and therefore, as it
obliges us to call the vilest worm our sister, so it transfers upon
us the glory of the brightest archangel ; we are all equally made
to inherit all things, are all equally heirs of God, and co-heirs
with Christ,
THE RULE OF LIFE. 491
SECT. V.
THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF SELF-
INTEREST IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXV.—The Pleasures of Self-interest ought not to be made
a primary Pursuit.
Self-interest is of three kinds, as has been already ex
plained ; viz.
First, Gross self-interest, or the pursuit of the means for
obtaining the pleasures of sensation, imagination, and ambition.
Secondly, Refined self-interest, or the pursuit of the means
for obtaining the pleasures of sympathy, theopathy, and the
moral sense.
Thirdly, Rational self-interest, or the pursuit of such things,
as are believed to be the means for obtaining our greatest possible
happiness, at the same time that we are ignorant, or do not con
sider, from what particular species of pleasure this our greatest
possible happiness will arise.
Now it is my design, under this proposition, to shew, that none
of these three kinds of self-interest ought to be cherished and in
dulged as the law of our natures, and the end of life ; and that
even rational self-interest is allowable, only when it tends to
restrain other pursuits that are more erroneous, and destructive
of our true happiness.
I begin with the arguments against gross self-interest.
First, then, We ought not to pursue the means for obtaining
the pleasures of sensation, imagination, and ambition, primarily,
because these pleasures themselves ought not to be made primary
pursuits, as has been shewn in the three last sections. The
means borrow all their lustre from the ends by association ; and,
if the original lustre of the ends be not sufficient to justify our
making them a primary pursuit, the borrowed one of the means
cannot. In like manner, if the original lustre be a false light,
an ignis fatuus, that misleads and seduces us, the borrowed one
must mislead and seduce also. And indeed, though we some
times rest in the means for obtaining the pleasures of sensation,
imagination, and ambition, and desire riches, possessions of other
kinds, power, privileges, accomplishments bodily and mental, for
their own sakes, as it were ; yet, for the most part, they in
troduce an explicit regard to these exploded pleasures ; and con
sequently must increase the corruption, and false cravings, of our
minds ; and, if they did not, their borrowed lustre would gradually
languish, and die away, so that they would cease to excite desire.
It is to be added, that if they be considered and pursued as
means, they will be used as such, i. e. will actually involve us in
the enjoyment of unlawful pleasures.
492 THE RULE OF LIFE.
Secondly, The treasuring up the means of happiness bears a
very near relation to ambition. Those who desire great degrees
of riches, power, learning, &c. desire also that their acquisitions
should be known to the world. Men have a great ambition to
be thought happy, and to have it in their power to gratify them
selves at pleasure ; and this ostentatious design is one principal
motive for acquiring all the supposed means of happiness. The
reasons, therefore, which exclude ambition, must contribute to
exclud? self-interest also.
Thirdly, Gross self-interest has a manifest tendency to deprive
us of the pleasures of sympathy, and to expose us to its pains.
Rapaciousness extinguishes all sparks ofgood-will and generosity;
and begets endless resentments, jealousies, and envies. And
indeed a great part of the contentions, and mutual injuries, which
we see in the world, arise, because either one or both the con
tending parties desire more than an equitable share of the means
of happiness. It is to be added, that gross self-interest has a
peculiar tendency to increase itself from the constant recurrency,
and consequent augmentation, of the ideas and desires that relate
to self, and the exclusion of those that relate to others.
Now this inconsistency of gross self-interest with sympathy
would be some argument against it, barely upon supposition, that
sympathy was one necessary part of our natures, and which ought
to have an equal share with sensation, imagination, and ambition ;
but as it now begins to appear from the exclusion of these, and
other arguments, that more than an equal share is due to sym
pathy, the opposition between them becomes a still stronger
argument against self-interest.
Fourthly, There is, in like manner, an evident opposition
between gross self-interest, and the pleasures of theopathy, and
of the moral sense, and, by consequence, an insuperable objection
to its being made our primary pursuit, deducible from these
essential parts of our nature.
Fifthly, Gross self-interest, when indulged, devours many of
the pleasures of sensation, and most of those of imagination and
ambition, i. e. many of the pleasures from which it takes its
rise. This is peculiarly true and evident in the love of money;
but it holds also, in a certain degree, with respect to the other
selfish pursuits. It must therefore destroy itself in part, as well
as the pleasures of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense,
with the refined self-interest grounded thereon. And thus it
happens, that in very avaricious persons nothing remains but
sensuality, sensual selfishness, and an uneasy .hankering after
money, which is a more imperfect state than that in which they
were at their first setting ofF in infancy. Some of the stronger
and more ordinary sensible pleasures and pains, with the desires
after them, must remain in the most sordid, as long as they carry
their bodies about with them, and are subjected to the cravings
of the natural appetites, and to the impressions of external
THE RULE OF LIFE. AOS
objects. But a violent passion for money gets the better of all
relish for the elegancies and amusements of life, of the desire of
honour, love, and esteem, and even of many of the sensual grati
fications. Now it cannot be, that a pursuit which is so opposite
to all the parts of our nature, should be intended by the Author
of it for our primary one.
Sixthly, Men, in treasuring up the means of happiness without
limits, seem to go upon the supposition, that their capacity of
enjoying happiness is infinite ; and consequently that the stock
of happiness laid up for them to enjoy hereafter is proportional
to the stock of means which they have amassed together. But
our capacity for enjoying happiness is narrow and fluctuating;
and there are many periods, during which no objects, however
grateful to others, can afford us pleasure, on account of the dis
order of our bodies and minds. If the theory of these papers be
admitted, it furnishes us with an easy explanation of this matter,
by shewing that our capacity for receiving pleasure depends upon
our associations, and upon the state of the medullary substance
of the brain ; and consequently that it must fail often, and cor
respond very imperfectly to the objects, which are usually called
pleasurable ones.
Seventhly, It is very evident in fact, that self-interested men
are not more happy than their neighbours, whatever means of
happiness they may possess. I presume indeed, that experience
supports the reasoning already alleged ; but, however that be, it
certainly supports the conclusion. Nay, one ought to say, that
covetous men are, in general, remarkably miserable. The hard
ships, cares, fears, ridicule, and contempt, to which they subject
themselves, appear to be greater evils than what fall to the share
of mankind at an average.
Eighthly, One may put this whole matter in a short and
obvious light, thus : the pursuit of the means of happiness cannot
be the primary one, because, if all be means, what becomes of
the end? Means, as means, can only be pleasant in a derivative
way from the end. If the end be seldom or never obtained, the
pleasure of the means must languish. The intellectual pleasures,
that are become ends by the entire coalescence of the associated
particulars, fade from being diluted with the mixture of neutral
circumstances, unless they be perpetually recruited. A selfish
expectation therefore, which is never gratified, must gradually
languish.
I come now, in the second place, to shew that refined, self-
interest, or the pursuit of the means for obtaining the pleasures
of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense, ought not to be
made a primary pursuit.
A person who is arrived at this refined self-interest, must
indeed be advanced some steps higher in the scale of perfection,
than those who are immersed in gross self-interest ; inasmuch as
this person must have overcome, in some measure, the gross
494 THE KULE OF LIFE.
pleasures of sensation, imagination, and ambition, with the gross
self-interest thereon depending, and have made some considerable
progress in sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense, before he
can make it a question whether the pursuit of refined self-interest
ought to be his primary pursuit or no. However, that it ought
not, that this would detain him, and even bring him lower in the
scale of perfection, will appear from the following reasons.
First, Many of the objections which have been brought against
gross self-interest, retain their force against the refined, though
in a less degree. Thus refined self-interest puts us upon treasuring
up the same means as the gross ; for the persons who are in
fluenced by it, consider riches, power, learning, &c. as means of
doing good to men, bringing glory to God, and enjoying com
fortable reflections in their own minds in consequence thereof.
But the desire of riches, power, learning, must introduce ambi
tion, and other defilements, from the many corrupt associations
that adhere to them. In like manner, refined self-interest has,
like the gross, a tendency to destroy the very pleasures from
which it took its rise, i. e. the pleasures of sympathy, theopathy,
and the moral sense ; it cannot afford happiness, unless the mind
and body be properly disposed ; it does not, in fact, make men
happy; but is the parent of dissatisfaction, murmurings, and
aridity ; and, being professedly the pursuit of a bare means, in
volves the absurdity of having no real end in view. It may not
be improper here for the reader just to review the objections
made above to gross self-interest.
Secondly, Refined self-interest, when indulged, is a much
deeper and more dangerous error than the gross, because it
shelters itself under sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense,
so as to grow through their protection ; whereas the gross self-
interest, being avowedly contrary to them, is often stifled by the
increase of benevolence and compassion, of the love and fear of
God, and of the sense of duty to him.
Thirdly, It is allied to, and, as it were, part of the foregoing
objection, which yet deserves a particular consideration, that the
pride attending on refined self-interest, when carried to a certain
height, is of an incorrigible, and, as it were, diabolical nature.
And, upon the whole, we may observe, that as gross self-interest,
when it gets possession of a man, puts him into a lower condition
than the mere sensual brutal one, in which he was born ; so
refined self-interest, when that gets possession, depresses him still
farther, even to the very confines of hell. However, it is still to
be remembered, that some degree must arise in the beginning of
a religious course ; and that this, if it be watched and resisted,
is an argument of our advancement in piety and virtue. But
the best things, when corrupted, often become the worst.
I come now, in the last place, to consider what objections
lie against rational self-interest, as our primary pursuit.
Now, here it may be alleged, first, That as we cannot but
THE RULE OF LIFE. 495
desire any particular pleasure proposed to us, as long as the
associations, which formed it, subsist in due strength ; so, when
any thing is believed to be the means of attaining our greatest
possible happiness, the whole frame of our acquired nature puts
us upon pursuing it. Rational self-interest must therefore always
have a necessary influence over us.
Secondly, It may be alleged, that I have myself made rational
self-interest the basis of the present inquiry after the rule of life,
having supposed all along that our greatest possible happiness is
the object of this rule.
And it certainly follows hence, that rational self-interest is to
be put upon a very different footing from that of the gross and
refined ; agreeably to which the Scriptures propose general and
indefinite hopes and fears, and especially those of a future state,
and inculcate them as good and proper motives of action. But
then, on the other hand, the Scriptures inculcate many other
motives, distinct from hope and fear : such as the love of God
and our neighbour, the law of our minds, &c. i. e. the motives of
sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense, as explained in this
work. And we may see from the reasoning used in respect of
gross and refined self-interest, that a constant attention to that
which is the most pure and rational, to the most general hopes
and fears, would extinguish our love of God and our neighbour,
as well as the other particular desires, and augment the ideas and
desires, which centre immediately and directly in self, to a mon
strous height. Rational self-interest may therefore be said to lie
between the impure motives of sensation, imagination, ambition,
gross self-interest, and refined self-interest, on the one hand, and
the pure ones of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense, on
the other; so that when it restrains the impure ones, or cherishes
the pure, it may be reckoned a virtue ; when it cherishes the
impure, or damps the pure, a vice. Now there are instances of
both kinds, of the first in grossly vicious persons, of the last in
those that have made considerable advancement in piety and
virtue. In like manner, the impure motives of sensation, imagi
nation, &c. differ in degree of impurity from each other; and
therefore may be either virtues or vices, in a relative way of
speaking. It seems, however, most convenient, upon the whole,
to make rational self-interest the middle point; and this, with
all the other reasoning of this paragraph, may serve to shew, that
it ought not to be cultivated primarily. But I shall have occa
sion to consider this matter farther under the next proposition
but one, when I come to deduce practical observations on self-
interest and self-annihilation.
It may be reckoned a part of the gross and refined self-interests,
to secure ourselves against the hazards of falling into the pains of
the other six classes, and a part of rational self-interest, to provide
against our greatest danger ; and it might be shewn in like man
ner, that neither ought these to be primary pursuits. -
496 THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXVI.—A strict Regard to the Precepts of Benevolence,
Piety, and the Moral Sense, favours even gross Self-interest ;
and is the only Method by which the refined and rational can
be secured.
Here we may observe,
First, That since the regard to benevolence, piety, and the
moral sense, procures the pleasures of sensation, imagination,
and ambition, in their greatest perfection for the most part ; it
must favour gross self-interest, or the pursuit of the means of these.
Secondly, This regard has, in many cases, an immediate
tendency to procure these means, i. e. to procure rfches, power,
learning, &c. And though it happens sometimes, that a man
must forego both the means for obtaining pleasure, and pleasure
itself, from a regard to duty; and happens often, that the best
men have not the greatest share of the means, yet it seems that
the best men have, in general, the fairest prospect for that com
petency, which is most suitable to real enjoyment. Thus, in trades
and professions, though it seldom is observed, that men eminent
for piety and charity amass great wealth (which indeed could not
well consist with these virtues), yet they are generally in affluent
or easy circumstances, from the faithful discharge of duty, their
prudence, moderation in expenses, &c. and scarce ever in indigent
ones. A sense of duty begets a desire to discharge it ; this re
commends to the world, to the bad as well as to the good ; and,
where there are instances apparently to the contrary, farther infor
mation will, for the most part, discover some secret pride, negli
gence, or imprudence, i. e. something contrary to duty, to which
the person's ill success in respect of this world may be ascribed.
Thirdly, A regard to duty plainly gives the greatest capacity
for enjoyment ; as it secures us against those disorders of body
and mind, which render the natural objects of pleasure insipid or
ungrateful.
Fourthly, As to refined self-interest, or the pursuit of the
means for obtaining the pleasures of sympathy, theopathy, and
the moral sense, it appears at first sight, that a due regard to
these must procure for us both the end, and the means.
Fifthly, However the gross or refined self-interest may, upon
certain occasions, be disappointed, the rational one never can,
whilst we act upon a principle of duty. Our future happiness
must be secured thereby. This the profane and profligate, as far
as they have any belief of God, providence, or a future state (and
I presume, that no one could ever arrive at more than scepticism
and uncertainty in these things), allow, as well as the devout and
pious Christian. And, when the rational self-interest is thus
secured, the disappointments of the other two become far less
grievous, make far less impression upon the mind. He that has
a certain reversion of an infinite and eternal inheritance, may be
very indifferent about present possessions.
THE RULE OF LIFE. 497
Prop. LXVII.—To deduce practical Observations on Self-Inte
rest and Self-Annihilation.
Self-interest being reckoned by some writers the only
stable point upon which a system of morality can be erected, and
self-annihilation by others the only one in which man can rest, I
will here endeavour to reconcile these two opinions, giving at the
same time both a general description of what passes in our
progress from self-interest to self-annihilation, and some short
hints of what is to be approved or condemned in this practice.
First, then, The vicious pleasures of sensation, imagination,
and ambition, being often very expensive, are checked by the
grossest of all the self-interests, the mere love of money ; and the
principle upon which men act in this case is esteemed one species
of prudence. This may be tolerated in others, where it is not in
our power to infuse a better motive ; but, in a man's self, it is
very absurd to have recourse to one which must leave so great a
defilement, when others that are purer and stronger, rational self-
interest particularly, are at hand.
Secondly, The desire of bodily and mental accomplishments,
learning particularly, considered as means of happiness, often
checks both the fore-mentioned vicious pleasures, and the love of
money. Now this kind of self-interest is preferable to the last
indeed ; but it cannot be approved by any that are truly solicitous
about their own reformation and purification.
Thirdly, Gross self-interest sometimes excites persons to ex
ternal acts of benevolence, and even of piety ; and though there
is much hypocrisy always in these cases, yet an imperfect bene
volence or piety is sometimes generated in this way. However,
one cannot but condemn this procedure in the highest degree.
Fourthly, As refined self- interest arises from benevolence,
piety, and the moral sense ; so, conversely, it promotes them in
various ways. But,_thejV as it likewise checks their growth in
various other ways, it cannot be allowed in many cases, and is,
upon the whole, rather to be condemned than approved. More
favour may be shewn to it, where it restrains the vicious pleasures
of sensation, imagination, and ambition.
Fifthly, Rational self-interest puts us upon all the proper
methods of checking the last-named vicious pleasures with gross
and refined self-interest, and begetting in ourselves the virtuous
dispositions of benevolence, piety, and the moral sense. This
part of our progress is extremely to be approved, and' especially
the last branch of it.
Sixthly, The virtuous dispositions of benevolence, piety, and
the moral sense, and particularly that of the love of God, check
all the foregoing ones, and seem sufficient utterly to extinguish
them at last. This would be perfect self-annihilation, and resting
in God as our centre. And upon the whole, we may conclude,
that though it be impossible to begin without sensuality, and
K K
498 THE RULE OF LIFE.
sensual selfishness, or to proceed without the other intermediate
principles, and particularly that of rational self-interest ; yet we
ought never to be satisfied with ourselves, till we arrive at perfect
self-annihilation, and the pure love of God.
We may observe also, that the method of destroying self, by
perpetually substituting a less and purer self-interest for a larger
and grosser, corresponds to some mathematical methods of ob
taining quantities to any required degree of exactness, by leaving
a less and less error sine limite. And though absolute exactitude
may not be possible in the first case, any more than in the last ;
yet a degree sufficient for future happiness is certainly attainable
by a proper use of the events of this life.
SECT. VI.
THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF SYMPATHY
IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXVIII.—The Pleasures of Sympathy improve those of .
Sensation, Imagination, Ambition, and Self-Interest; and
unite with those of Theopathy and the Moral Sense ; they are
self-consistent, and admit of an unlimited Extent : they may
therefore be our primary Pursuit.
That the pleasures of sympathy improve those of sensation,
imagination, ambition, and self-interest, by limiting and regula
ting them, appears from the four last sections.
Their union and entire coincidence with those of theopathy are
evident, inasmuch as we are led by the love of good men to that
of God, and back again by the love of God to that of all his
creatures in and through him ; also as it must be the will of an
infinitely benevolent Being, that we should cultivate universal
unlimited benevolence.
In like manner, they may be proved to unite and coincide with
the pleasures of the moral sense, both because they are one prin
cipal source of the moral sense, and because this, in its turn,
approves of and enforces them entirely.
In order to prove their unlimited extent, let us suppose, as
we did before of sensation, that a person took all opportunities of
gratifying his benevolent desires ; that he made it his study,
pleasure, ambition, and constant employment, either to promote
happiness, or lessen misery, to go about doing good.
First, then, It is very plain, that such a person would have a
very large field of employment. The relations of life, conjugal,
THE RULE OF LIFE. 499
parental, filial, to friends, strangers, enemies, to superiors, equals,
inferiors, and even to brutes, and the necessities of each, are so
numerous, that, if we were not greatly wanting in benevolent
affections, we should have no want of fit objects for them.
Secondly, As the occasions are sufficient to engage our time,
so we may, in general, expect success. Not only the persons
themselves, to whom we intend to do service, may be expected
to concur, but others also, in general ; inasmuch as benevolence
gains the love and esteem of the beholders, has a persuasiveness
and prevalence over them, and engages them to co-operate towards
its success. It is very necessary indeed, that all benevolent
persons should guard against the sallies of pride, self-will, and
passion, in, themselves, i. e. take care that their benevolence be
pure ; also that it be improved by piety, and the moral sense ;
else it is probable, that they will meet with many disappoint
ments. But this is no argument against the unlimited nature of
benevolence: it only tends to exclude the mixture and defile
ment of ill dispositions ; and to shew the necessary connexion of
the love of our neighbour with that of God, and with the divine
signature of conscience, which I all along contend for. When
our benevolence is thus pure, and thus directed, it will seldom
fail of gaining its purpose. And yet disappointments must some
times happen to the purest benevolence ; else our love of God,
, and resignation to his will, which is the highest principle of all,
could not be brought to perfection But then this will happen so
rarely as to make no alteration in our reasonings, with respect to
the general state of things ; which kind of reasoning and cer
tainty is all that we are qualified for in our present condition.
Thirdly, As the benevolent person may expect both sufficient
employment and success, in general ; so it does not appear from
the experience of those who make the trial, that the relish for
these pleasures languishes, as in other cases ; but, on the contrary,
that it gathers strength from gratification. We hear men com
plaining frequently of the vanity and deceitfulness of the other
pleasures after possession and gratification, but never of those of
benevolence, when improved by religion, and the moral sense.
On the contrary, these pleasures are greater in enjoyment than
expectation ; and continue to please in reflection, and after enjoy
ment. And the foregoing history of association may enable us
to discover how this comes to pass. Since the pleasures of bene
volence are, in general, attended with success, and are consistent
with, and productive of, the several inferior pleasures in their
due degree, as I have already shewn, and also are farther illumi
nated by the moral and religious pleasures, it is plain that they
must receive fresh recruits upon every gratification, and, there
fore, increase perpetually, when cultivated as they ought to be.
The self-consistency of benevolence appears from the peculiar
harmony, love, esteem, and mutual co-operation, that prevail
amongst benevolent persons ; also from the tendency that acts of
K K 2
500 THE RULE OF LIFE.
benevolence, proceeding from A to B, have to excite corre
spondent ones reciprocally from B to A, and so on indefinitely.
We may observe farther, that, when benevolence is arrived at a
due height, all our desires and fears, all our sensibilities for our
selves, are more or less transferred upon others by our love and
compassion for them ; and, in like manner, that when our moral
sense is sufficiently established and improved, when we become
influenced by what is fit and right, our imperfect sensibility for
others lessens our exorbitant concern for ourselves by being
compared with it, at the same time that compassion takes off our
thoughts from ourselves. And thus benevolence to a single
person may ultimately become equal to self-interest, by this
tendency of self-interest to increase benevolence, and recipro
cally of benevolence to lessen self-interest; though self-interest
was at first infinitely greater than benevolence ; i. e. we, who
come into the world entirely selfish, earthly, and children of
wrath, may at least be exalted to the glorious liberty of the tons
of God, by learning to love our neighbours as ourselves : we may
learn to be as much concerned for others as for ourselves, and as
little concerned for ourselves as for others; both which things
tend to make benevolence and self-interest equal, however
unequal they were at first. '
And now a new scene begins to open itself to our view. Let
us suppose, that the benevolence of A is very imperfect ; how
ever, that it considerably exceeds his malevolence; so that he
receives pleasure, upon the whole, from the happiness of B, C, D,
&c. i. e. from that of the small circle of those whom he has
already learnt to call his neighbours. Let us also suppose, that
B, C, D, &c. though affected with a variety of pains, as well as
pleasures, are yet happy, upon the whole ; and that A, though
he does not see this balance of happiness clearly, yet has some
comfortable general knowledge of it. This then is the happiness
of good men in this present imperfect state ; and it is evident,
that they are great gainers, upon the whole, from their benevo
lence. At the same time it gives us a faint conception of As
unbounded happiness, on supposition that he considered every
man as his friend, his son, his neighbour, his second self, and
loved him as himself; and that his neighbour was exalted to the
same unbounded happiness as himself by the same unlimited
benevolence. Thus A, B, C, D, Sec. would all become, as it
were, new sets of senses, and perceptive powers, to each other,
so as to increase each other's happiness without limits; they
would all become members of the mystical body of Christ; all
have an equal care for each other ; all increase in love, and come
to their full stature, to perfect manhood, by that which every
joint supplieth ; happiness would circulate through this mystical
body without end, so as that each particle of it would, in due
time, arrive at each individual point, or sentient being, of the
great whole, that each would inherit all things.
THE RULE OF LIFE. 501
To strengthen our presumptions in favour of benevolence, as
the primary pursuit of life, still more ; let it be considered, that
its pleasures lie open to all kinds and degrees of men, since every
man has it in his power to benefit others, however superior or
inferior, and since we all stand in need of each other. And the
difference which nature has put between us and the brutes, in
making us so much more dependent upon, and necessary to, each
other, from the cradle to the grave, for life, health, convenience,
pleasure, education, and intellectual accomplishments, so much
less able to subsist singly, or even in small bodies, than the
brutes, may be considered as one mark of the superior excellence
of the social pleasures to man. All the tendencies of the events
of life, ordinary and extraordinary, of the relations of life, of the
foregoing pleasures and pains, to connect us to each other, to
convert accidental, natural, instituted associations into permanent
coalescences (for all this is effected by the power of association
so much spoken of in these papers,) so that two ill men can
scarce become known to each other familiarly, without conceiv
ing some love, tenderness, compassion, complacence for each
other, are arguments to the same purpose. And our love to
relations and friends, that have particular failings, teaches us to
be more candid towards others, who have the like failings. At
the same time it shews the consistency of benevolence with itself,
and its tendency to improve itself; that we love, esteem, assist,
and encourage the benevolent more than others ; so that a bene
volent action not only excites the receiver to a grateful return,
but also the by-stander to approve and reward ; and the benevo
lent man receives an hundred-fold even in this world. But it
would be endless to pursue this. Benevolence is indeed the
grand design and purport of human life, of the present proba
tionary state ; and therefore every circumstance of human life
must point to it, directly or indirectly, when duly considered.
Cor. I. Since benevolence now appears to be a primary pur
suit, it follows, that all the pleasures of malevolence are forbidden,
as being so many direct hindrances and bars to our happiness.
The pleasures of sensation, imagination, ambition, and self-
interest, may all be made consistent with benevolence, when
limited by, and made subject to it, at least in this imperfect
state ; but those of malevolence are quite incompatible with it.
As far as malevolence is allowed, benevolence must be destroyed;
they are heat and cold, light and darkness, to each other.
There is, however, this exception ; that where wishing evil to
some disposes us to be more benevolent upon the whole, as in
the case of what is called a just indignation against vice, it may
perhaps be tolerable in the more imperfect kinds of men, who
have need of this direction and incitement to keep them from
wandering out of the proper road, and to help them forward in it.
But it is extremely dangerous to encourage such a disposition of
mind by satire, invective, dispute, however unworthy the oppo
502 THE RULE OF LIFE.
nent may be, as these practices generally end in rank malevo
lence at last. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness
of God.
Cor. II. As we must forego the pleasures of malevolence, so
we must patiently and resolutely endure the pains of benevo
lence, particularly those of compassion. But we shall not be
losers upon either of these accounts. The pleasures of the
moral sense, which result from these virtues, will in the first case
compensate for what we forego, and in the last overbalance what
we endure. Besides which, mercy and forgiveness are themselves
pleasures, and productive of many others in the event; and com
passion generally puts us upon such methods, as both make the
afflicted to rejoice, and beget in ourselves a stronger disposition
to rejoice with them. However, we may learn from these two
corollaries, that as our passage through the four inferior, and, as
it were, forbidden, classes of pleasure and pain, is not entire self-
denial and sufferance, so some degrees of these are necessary in
respect of the three superior classes. We must weep with those
that weep, as well as rejoice with those that rejoice. In like
manner, theopathy, and the moral sense, are the occasions of
some pain, as well as of great and lasting pleasure ; as will
appear hereafter. Now all this mixture of pain with pleasure in
each class, as also the difficulty which we find in bringing the
inferior classes into a due subordination to the superior, are con
sequences and marks of our fallen and degenerate state.
Cor. III. As benevolence is thus supported by many direct
arguments, so there are similar and opposite arguments, which
shew that malevolence is the bane of human happiness ; that it
occasions misery to the doer as well as to the sufferer ; that it is
infinitely inconsistent with itself, and with the course of nature ;
and that it is impossible that it should subsist for ever. Now
these become so many indirect ones for benevolence, and for our
making it the supreme pleasure and end of our lives. In order
to make this appear more fully, let us take a survey of human
life on the reverse side to that which we have before considered.
We shall there see, that injuries are increased in various ways by
reciprocation, till at last mutual sufferings oblige both parties to
desist ; that the course and constitution of nature give us num
berless admonitions to forbear ; and that the hand of every man,
and the power of every thing, is against the malevolent, so that,
if we should suppose the beings A, B, C, D, &c. to be purely
malevolent, to have each of them an indefinite number of enemies,
they would first cease from their enmity on account of their
mutual sufferings, and become purely selfish, each being his own
sole friend and protector; and afterwards, by mutual good
offices, endear themselves to each other; so that at last each
would have an indefinite number of friends, i. e. be indefinitely
happy. This is indeed a kind of supposition ; but its obvious
correspondence with what we see and feel in real life, is a strong
THE RULE OF LIFE. 503
argument both of the infinite goodness of God, and of the con
sequent doctrine of the tendency of all beings to unlimited hap
piness through benevolence. For the beings A, B, C, D, &c.
could no more stop at pure selfishness, or any other intermediate
point, than they could rest in pure malevolence. And thus the
arguments, which exclude pure malevolence, necessarily infer
pure unlimited benevolence.
Prop. LXIX.—To deduce practical Rules for augmenting the
benevolent Affections, and suppressing the malevolent ones.
For this purpose we ought, first, Diligently to practise all
such acts of friendship, generosity, and compassion, as our abili
ties of any kind extend to; and rigorously to refrain from all
sallies of anger, resentment, envy, jealousy, &c. For though our
affections are not directly and immediately subject to the volun
tary power, yet our actions are; and consequently our affections
also mediately. He that at first practises acts of benevolence by
constraint,- and continues to practise them, will at last have
associated such a variety of pleasures with them, as to transfer a
great instantaneous pleasure upon them, and beget in himself
the affections from which they naturally flow. In like manner,
if we abstain from malevolent actions, we shall dry up the ill
passions, which are their sources.
Secondly, It will be of great use frequently to reflect upon the
great pleasures and rewards attending on benevolence, also upon
the many evils, present and future, to which the contrary temper
exposes us. For thus we shall likewise transfer pleasure and
pain by association upon these tempers respectively ; and rational
self-interest will be made to beget pure benevolence, and to
extinguish all kinds and degrees of malevolence.
I Thirdly, It is necessary to pray frequently and fervently (*, e.
as far as we can excite fervour by our voluntary powers) for
others, friends, benefactors, strangers, enemies. All exertions of
our affections cherish them ; and those made under the more
immediate sense of the divine attributes have an extraordinary
efficacy this way, by mixing the love, awe, and other exalted
emotions of mind attending our addresses to God, with our
affections towards men, so as to improve and purify them
thereby. Petitions for the increase of our benevolence, and
suppression of our malevolence, have the same tendency.
Fourthly, All meditations upon the attributes of God, and
particularly upon his infinite benevolence to all his creatures,
have a strong tendency to refine and augment our benevolent
affections.
Fifthly, The frequent consideration of our own misery, help
lessness, sinfulness, entire dependence upon God, &c. raises in us
compassion for others, as well as concern, and earnest desires and
prayers, for ourselves. And compassion is, in this imperfect pro
bationary state, a most principal part of our benevolent affections.
504 THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXX.—To deduce practical Rules for the Conduct of
Men towards each other in Society.
Since benevolence is now proved to be a primary pursuit, it
follows, that we are to direct every action so as to produce the
| greatest happiness, and the least misery, in our power. This is
j that rule of social behaviour, which universal unlimited bene-
\ volence inculcates.
But the application of this rule in real life is attended with con
siderable difficulties and perplexities. It is impossible for the
most sagacious and experienced persons to make any accurate esti
mate of the future consequences of particular actions, so as, in all
the variety of circumstances which occur, to determine justly,
which action would contribute most to augment happiness and
lessen misery. We must therefore, instead of this most general
rule, substitute others less general, and subordinate to it, and
which admit of a more commodious practical application. Of
this kind are the ten rules that follow. Where they coincide, we
may suppose them to add strength to each other ; where they are
opposite, or seemingly so, to moderate and restrain one another ;
so as that the sum total shall always be the best direction in em
power for promoting the happiness, and lessening the misery, of
others.
The first rule is obedience to the scripture precepts, in the
natural, obvious, and popular meaning of them. That this must,
in general, contribute to public good, needs no proof: piety and
benevolence evidently coincide here, as in other cases. The scrip
ture precepts are indeed themselves the rule of life. But then
there is the same sort of difficulty in applying them accurately to
particular cases, as in applying the above-mentioned most general
rule, by means of an estimate of the consequences of actions.
It is impossible, in many particular cases, from the nature of
language, to determine whether the action under consideration
come precisely under this or that scripture precept, interpreted
literally, as may appear from the endless subtleties and intricacies
of casuistical divinity. However, it cannot but be that the
common and popular application must, for the most part, direct
us to their true intention and meaning. Let every man there
fore, in the particular circumstances of real life, recollect the
scripture precepts, and follow them in their first and most obvious
sense, unless where this is strongly opposite to some of the follow
ing rules ; which yet will seldom happen.
Secondly, Great regard must be had both to our own moral
sense, and to that of others. This rule coincides remarkably with
the foregoing. They are together the chief supports of all that
is good, even in the most refined and philosophical, as well as in
the vulgar; and therefore must not be weakened, or explained
away.
Thirdly, It is very proper in all deliberate actions to weigh, as
THE RULE OF LIFE. 505
well as we can, the probable consequences on each side, and to
suffer the balance to have some influence in all cases, and the
chief where the other rules do not interfere much or explicitly.
But to be determined by our own judgments as to consequences,
in opposition to the two foregoing rules, or to those that follow,
savours much of pride, and is often only a cloak for self-interest
and maliciousness.
Fourthly, The natural motions of good-will, compassion, &c.
must have great regard paid to them, lest we contract a philoso
phical hardness of heart, by endeavouring or pretending to act
upon higher and more extensively beneficial views, than vulgar
minds, the softer sex, &c. Some persons carry this much too far
on the other side, and encourage many public mischiefs, through
a false misguided tenderness to criminals, persons in distress
through present gross vices, &c. For the mere instantaneous
motions of good-will and compassion, which are generated in so
many different ways in different persons, cannot be in all more
than a good general direction for promoting the greatest good.
Fifthly, The rule of placing ourselves in the several situations
of all the persons concerned, and inquiring what we should then
expect, is of excellent use for directing, enforcing, and restrain
ing our actions, and for begetting in us a ready, constant sense of
what is fit and equitable.
Sixthly, Persons in the near relations of life, benefactors,
dependents, and enemies, seem to have, in most cases, a prior
claim to strangers. For the general benevolence arises from our
cultivation of these particular sources of it. The root must
therefore be cherished, that the branches may flourish, and the
fruit arrive to its perfection.
Seventhly, Benevolent and religious persons have, all other
circumstances being equal, a prior claim to the rest of mankind.
Natural benevolence itself teaches this, as well as the moral sense.
But it is likewise of great importance to the public, thus to
encourage virtue. Not to mention, that all opportunities and
powers become more extensively beneficial, by being entrusted
with deserving persons.
Eighthly, Since the concerns of religion, and a future state, are
of infinitely more importance than those which relate to this
world, we ought to be principally solicitous about the establish
ment and promotion of true and pure religion, and to make all
our endeavours concerning temporal things subservient to the
precepts for teaching all nations, and for carrying the everlasting
gospel to the ends of the earth.
Ninthly, We ought to pay the strictest regard to truth, both
with respect to affirmations and promises. There are very few
instances, where veracity of both kinds is not evidently conducive
to public good, and falsehood in every degree pernicious. It
follows therefore, that, in cases where appearances are otherwise,
the general regard to truth, which is of so much consequence to
50G THE RULE OF LIFE.
the world, ought to make us adhere inviolably to it ; and that it
is a most dangerous practice to falsify, as is often done, from false
delicacy, pretended, or even real officiousness, false shame, and
other such disingenuous motives, or even from those that border
upon virtue. The harm which these things do, by creating a
mutual diffidence, and disposition to deceive, in mankind, is
exceedingly great ; and cannot be counterbalanced by the present
good effects, assigned as the reasons for this practice. Yet still
the degrees are here, as in other cases, so insensible, and the
boundaries so nice, that it is difficult, or even impossible, to give
any exact rule. A direct falsehood seems scarce to admit a
toleration, whatever be thrown into the opposite scale ; unless in
cases of madness, murder to be prevented, &c. Equivocations,
concealments, pretences, are in general unjustifiable ; but may
perhaps be sometimes allowed. The wisdom of the serpent joined
to the innocence of the dove, or christian prudence to christian
simplicity and charity, will generally enable men to avoid all diffi
culties. There is scarce any thing which does greater violence to
the moral sense in well-educated persons, than disingenuity of any
kind, which is a strong argument against it. Lies and liars are
particularly noted in the prophetical writings ; and the great sin
of idolatry is represented under this image. As to false oaths,
affirmative or promissory, there seems to be no possible reason
sufficient to justify the violation of them. The third command
ment, and the reverence due to the Divine Majesty, lay an
absolute restraint here.
Tenthly, Obedience to the civil magistrate is a subordinate
general rule, of the utmost importance. It is evidently for the
public good, that every member of a state should submit to the
governing power, whatever that be. Peace, order, and harmony,
result from this in the general ; confusion and mischief of all kinds
from the contrary. So that though it may and must be supposed,
that disobedience, in certain particular cases, will, as far as the
single act, and its immediate consequences, are considered, con
tribute more to public good, than obedience; yet, as it is a
dangerous example to others, and will probably lead the person
himself into other instances of disobedience afterwards, &c. diso
bedience in every case becomes destructive of public happiness
upon the whole. To this we may add, that as part of our
notions of, and regards to, the Deity, are taken from the civil
magistrate ; so conversely, the magistrate is to be considered as
God's vicegerent on earth ; and all opposition to him weakens the
force of religious obligations, as well as of civil ones ; and if there
be an oath of fidelity and submission, or even a bear promise,
this will give a farther sanction. Lastly, the precepts of the
New Testament, given under very wicked governors, and the
whole tenor of it, which supposes Christians to have higher views,
and not to intermeddle with the kingdoms of this world, enjoin
an implicit submission.
THE RULE OF LIFE. 507
"VVe ought therefore, in consequence of this tenth rule, to
reverence all persons in authority ; not to pass hasty censures
upon their actions ; to make candid allowances on account of the
difficulties of government, the bad education of princes, and
persons of high birth, and the flatteries and extraordinary temp
tations, with which they are surrounded ; to observe the laws
ourselves, and promote the observance of them, where the penal
ties may be evaded, or are found insufficient; to look upon
property as a thing absolutely determined by the laws ; so that
though a man may and ought to recede from what the law would
give him, out of compassion, generosity, love of peace, view of
the greater good to the whole, &c. yet he must never evade,
strain, or in any way do violence to the laws, in order to obtain
• what he may think his own according to equity ; and wherever
he has offended, or is judged by lawful authority to have
offended, he must submit to the punishment, whatever it be.
Here two things may be objected in respect of this tenth rule :
First, That the duty to magistrates ought to be deduced from the
origin of civil government. Secondly, That it is lawful to resist
the supreme magistrate openly, in those cases, where the good
consequences of open resistance appear in the ultimate result to
overbalance the ill consequences.
To the first I answer, that we here suppose benevolence to be
the rule of duty, public good the end of benevolence, and sub
mission to magistrates the means of promoting the public good.
Unless therefore something can be objected to one of these three
positions, the conclusion, that submission to magistrates is a
duty, must stand. It appears to me also, that this method of
deducing obedience to magistrates is much more simple and
direct than that from the origin of civil government. For the
real origin of civil government having been either the gradual
transition and degeneration of parental patriarchal authority
(which being originally directed by pure love, and supported by
absolute authority, can never be paralleled now) into small
monarchies in the ancient world, of which we know nothing
accurately ; or the usurped power of conquerors and tyrants ; or
the delegated power of those, who in difficult and factious times
have gained over the minds of the populace to themselves, and
balanced the interests and ambition of particulars against one
another; it seems that little of use to public happiness can be
drawn from these patterns, where the persons concerned were
either very little solicitous about public happiness, or very little
qualified to make a proper estimate of the best methods of attain
ing it, or, lastly, were obliged to comply with the prejudices and
established customs of an ignorant head-strong multitude. The
only pattern of great use and authority appears to be the Jewish
Theocracy. As to -the fictitious supposition, that a set of philo
sophers, with all their natural rights about them, agree to give
up certain of these, iu order to preserve the rest, and promote
508 THE RULE OF LIFE.
the good of the whole, this is too large a field. Besides, public
good must either be made the criterion of natural rights, and of
the obligation to give them up, &c. which would bring this
hypothesis to coincide with the direct obvious considerations
above-mentioned, or if any other criterion be assumed, the deter
minations will be false. This method of reasoning has been
adopted too servilely, by the force which association has over the
human mind, from the technical methods of extending human
laws to cases not provided for explicitly, and particularly from
the reasonings made use of in the civil law. However, the
writers of this class have delivered many excellent particular
precepts, in relation to the duties both of public and of private
life ; and therefore have deserved well of the world, notwithstand
ing that their foundation for the laws of nature and nations be
liable to the foregoing objections.
Secondly, It is said, that there are certain cases, in which
open resistance is lawful. And it must be owned, that where
there is no oath of allegiance, or where that oath is plainly con
ditional, cases may be put, where resistance with all its
consequences seems more likely to produce public good, than
non-resistance. If therefore a man can lay his hand upon his
heart, and fairly declare, that he is not influenced by ambition,
self-interest, envy, resentment, &c. but merely by tenderness
and good-will to the public ; I cannot presume to say, that he is
to be restrained, or that Christianity, that perfect law of liberty,
whose end is peace and good-will to men, should be made an
obstruction to any truly benevolent endeavours, where Christian
liberty is not made use of as a cloak for maliciousness. But
these cases are so rare, that it is needless to give any rules about
them. In public disturbances, when men's passions are up,
there are so many violences on all hands, that it is impossible to
say which side one would wish to have uppermost ; only there
is always a prejudice in favour of the last establishment, because
the minds of the multitude may be quieted sooner by getting into
the former road. Rules of this kind can only be supposed to
relate to those that are disposed to obey them, which are very
few in comparison. If one could suppose, that all would obey
implicitly, no disturbance could arise ; if all disobey, it is infinite
anarchy. Therefore, of all the intermediate suppositions, those
seem to be the best, in which most obey. In short, it appears
to be the duty of a good Christian to sit still, and suffer the
children of this world to dispute and fight about it; only sub
mitting himself to the powers in being, whatever they are (they
cannot be entitled to less regard than the heathen emperors, to
whom the apostles enjoined obedience) for the sake of peace and
quietness to himself and others ; and as much as in him lies,
moderating the heats and animosities of parties against each
other. However, I do not mean, that those who, according to
the constitution of a government, have an executive or legislative
THE RULE OF LIFE. 509
power lodged with them, should not exert it with authority. As
to the case of oaths, no view of public good can be sufficient to
supersede so sacred an obligation. And thus it is not only
allowed to, but even required of, a good Christian, to be active
in the defence of an establishment, to which he has given an
oath to that purpose.
Other rules, besides the ten foregoing, might be assigned, or
these expressed in a different way. I have put down those which
appear to me to be, in fact, the chief principles of social conduct
to wise and good men. They must all be supposed to influence
and interpret each other. Let a man only divest himself of all
self-regards, as much as possible, and love his neighbour as him
self, and God above all, and he will generally find some point,
and that without much difficulty or perplexity, in which all these
rules unite to produce the greatest good, upon the whole, to all
the persons concerned.
I proceed next to consider briefly the several principal relations
of life, and the duties arising from them, according to the fore
going or such like rules.
The first of these is that of husband and wife. The loving
our neighbour as ourselves begins here. This is the first instance
of it; and, where this love is mutual and perfect, there an entire
equality of the two sexes takes place. The authority of the man
is only a mark of our present degenerate state, by reason of which
dominion must be placed somewhere, and therefore in the man,
as being of greater bodily strength and firmness of mind. But
this is that kind of right or property, which men are obliged to
give up, though women are also obliged to acknowledge it.
Suppose the sexes to share all their joys and griefs perfectly, to
have an entire concern for each other, and especially for each
other's eternal welfare, and they are, as it were, reinstated in
paradise ; and the dominion of the man over the woman, with
her subjection, and consequent reluctance, can only take place
again upon their mutual transgression. And though in this
imperfect state it seems impossible, from the theory above given,
for any one to love another, in every branch of desire and
happiness, entirely as himself; yet there appear to be such near
approaches to it in benevolent, devout, married persons, united
upon right motives, as to annihilate all considerable, or even
perceptible distinction. It is of the utmost importance, that this
grand foundation of all benevolence be duly laid, on account both
of public and private happiness. The chief or only means of
doing this is religion. Where both parties have it in a high
degree, they cannnot fail of mutual happiness ; scarce if one
have it : where both are greatly defective in this principal article,
it is almost impossible but dissensions, uneasiness, and mutual
offences, should arise.
The second great relation of life is that of parents to children ;
the principal duty of which is the giving a right education, or
510 THE RULE OF LIFE.
the imprinting such associations upon the minds of children, as
may conduct them safe through the labyrinths of this world to a
happy futurity. Religion therefore here again appears to be the
one only necessary thing. It is the design of the present chapter
to shew, that it contributes as certainly to give us the maximum
of happiness in this world, at least the fairest prospect of it, as
to secure it in the next. So that a parent must be led to the
inculcating virtue in every view. The chief errors in education
are owing to the want of this persuasion in a practical way ; or
to a false tenderness and opinion of the parent, whereby he is
led to believe, or flatter himself, that his child's nature is not so
degenerate and corrupt, as to require frequent corrections and
restraints, with perpetual encouragements and incentives to
virtue by reward, example, advice, books, conversation, &c.
Otherwise it would appear from the history of the mind, its
affections and passions, before given, that few children would
miscarry. Where due care is taken from the first, little severity
would ordinarily be necessary ; but in proportion as this care is
neglected in the first years, a much greater degree of care, with
high degrees of severity, both bodily and mental, become abso
lutely requisite to preserve from misery here and hereafter. We
see that men of the ordinary standard in virtue are seldom brought
to a state of repentance and salvation, without great sufferings,
both bodily and mental, from diseases, sad external accidents,
death of friends, loss of fortunes, &c. How then can it be sup
posed that children can be brought into the right way without
analogous methods, both bodily and mental, though gentler indeed,
in proportion as the child's age is more tender? And this ought
to make all affectionate parents labour from the earliest dawnings
of understanding and desire, to check the growing obstinacy of
the will ; curb all sallies of passion ; impress the deepest, most
amiable, reverential, and awful apprehensions of God, a future
state, and all sacred things : restrain anger, jealousy, selfishness ;
encourage love, compassion, generosity, forgiveness, gratitude;
excite, and even compel to, such industry as the tender age will
properly admit. For one principal end and difficulty of life is
to generate such moderate, varying, and perpetually actuating
motives, by means of the natural sensible desires being associated
with, and parcelled out upon, foreign objects, as may keep up a
state of moderate cheerfulness, and useful employment, during
the whole course of our lives : whereas sensual, blind, and unin
formed desire presses violently for immediate gratification, is
injurious to others, and destroys its own aims, or, at the best,
gives way only to spleen and dissatisfaction.
As to the other duties towards children, such as care of their
present and future health of body, provision of external neces
saries and conveniencies for them, &c. they are sufficiently
obvious, and can scarce be neglected by those who are truly soli
citous about the principal point, a religious education.
THE RULE OF LIFE. 511
The duties of children to parents are submission, obedience,
gratitude even to the worst. For it can scarce be supposed, that
children have not great obligations to their parents, upon the
whole. And as the love of parents to children may serve to give
parents a feeling conviction of the infinite benevolence of God
our heavenly father, so the submission of children to parents is
the pattern of, and introduction to, true religion ; and therefore
is of infinite importance to be duly paid. Which may serve as
an admonition both to parents, to shew themselves fit vicegerents
of God, and to children, to give them the respect due to them as
such.
As the reciprocal duties between parents and children are
patterns of the reciprocal duties between superiors and inferiors
of all kinds ; so the duties and affections between brethren and
sisters are our guides and monitors in respect of equals : both
which things are intimated in these and such like scripture
phrases; intreat an elder as a father; the younger men as
brethren; love as brethren, &c. The several events of childhood,
the conjunction of interests, the examples of others, &c. impress
upon us a greater concern, love, compassion, &c. for all persons
nearly related to us in blood, than for others in like circumstances.
And though the ultimate ratio of duty is to love every man
equally, because we are to love every man as ourselves; yet
since our condition here keeps us in some degree the necessary
slaves of self-love, it follows that neither ought we to love all
persons equally, but our relations, friends, and enemies, preferably
to utter strangers ; lest, in endeavouring to love all equally, we
come not to love others more, but our brethren less, than we did
before.
The cleaving of our affections to all with whom we have
frequent pleasing intercourses, with mutual obligations, is the
foundation of friendship; which yet cannot subsist long, but
amongst the truly religious. And great care ought to be taken
here, not to have men's persons in admiration, not to esteem our
friend a nonpareil. There is great pride and vanity in this, just
as in the like opinions concerning ourselves, our children, pos
sessions, &c. Such intimacies, by exalting one above measure in
our love and esteem, must depress others ; and they generally
end in jealousies and quarrels, even between the two intimates.
All men are frail and imperfect, and it is a great injury to any
man, to think more highly of him than he deserves, and to treat
him so. Our regards cannot continue long strained up to an
unnatural pitch. And if we consider, that we all have a proper
business in life, which engages us in a variety of christian actions,
and consequently of friendships and intimacies, this peculiar
attachment of one person to another of the same sex will appear
inconsistent with the duties of life. Where the sexes are different,
such an attachment is either with a view to marriage, or else it
becomes liable to still greater objections.
512 THE RULE OF LIFE.
As to enemies, the forgiving them, praying for them, doing
them good offices, compassion to them, as exposing themselves to
sufferings by a wrong behaviour, the sense of our having injured
them, which is generally the case more or less, &c. have in
generous and religious men a peculiar tendency to excite love
and compassion for them.
The last relation which I shall consider is that of magistrates,
*. e. the persons who in each society have the legislative or
executive powers, or both, committed to them. The duty arising
from this relation may be distinguished into two branches. First,
that towards the persons over whom the magistrate presides;
Secondly, that towards other states.
In respect of the first, we may at once affirm, that the prin
cipal care of a magistrate, of the father of a people, is to encourage
and enforce benevolence and piety, the belief and practice of
natural and revealed religion ; and to discourage and restrain
infidelity, profaneness, and immorality, as much as possible.
And this,
First, Because the concerns of another world are of infinitely
greater importance than any relating to this ; so that he who
wishes well to a people, and presides over them for their good,
cannot but be chiefly solicitous and industrious in this particular.
Secondly, Because even the present well-being of states
depends entirely upon the private virtues of the several ranks
and orders of men. For the public happiness is compounded of
the happiness of the several individuals composing the body
politic ; and the virtues of industry, temperance, chastity, meek
ness, justice, generosity, devotion, resignation, &c. have a ten
dency to promote the happiness both of the persons that possess
them, and of others.
It will therefore be the duty of the magistrate, in making and
executing laws, to inquire which method appears to be most
conducive to virtue in the people, to pursue this simply and
steadily, and not to doubt but that all the subordinate ends of
government, as those of increasing the riches and power of the
state, promoting arts and sciences, &c. will be obtained in such
degrees as they ought, as are productive of real happiness to the
people, by the same means. But where it is doubtful what
method is most conducive to virtue, there the subordinate ends
are to be taken into consideration, each according to its value :
just as in the case of self-interest in individuals; where bene
volence, piety, and the moral sense, are entirely silent, there cool,
rational self-interest may, and, as it appears, ought to be admitted
as a principle of action.
As to foreign states, they, and consequently the magistrates
which preside over them, are under the same obligations as
private persons are in respect of each other. Thus, since a
private person, in order to obtain his own greatest happiness,
even in this world, must obey the precepts of benevolence, piety,
THE RULE OF LIFE. 513
and the moral sense, with an absolute and implicit confidence in
them, so states, i. e. their governors or representatives, ought to
deal with each other according to justice, generosity, charity, &c.
even from the mere principle of interest. For the reason is the
same in both cases. If individuals be all members of the same
mystical body, much more are states, i. e. large collections of
individuals. They ought therefore to have the same care for
each other, as for themselves ; and whoever is an aggressor, or
injurious, must expect to suffer, as in private life. They that
take the sword shall perish by the sword. He that leadeth into
captivity must go into captivity. Babylon must receive double
for all her insults upon other nations, &c. All which is verified
by observation, both in regard to private persons, and to states,
as far as it is reasonable for us to expect to see it verified in this
our ignorance of the real quantities of virtue and vice, and of
happiness and misery. But in all observations of this kind we
ought constantly to bear in mind, that God's judgments are
unsearchable, and his ways past finding out, in particular cases,
though sufficiently manifest in the general course and tenor of
things. By the last he shows us his moral attributes, his pro
vidence, and his relation to us as our governor; by the first
he humbles the pride, rashness, and self-conceit, of human
understanding.
It may not perhaps be improper here to say something con
cerning the lawfulness of war. Now this regards either the
magistrate, or the subject. First, then, it is very evident, that as
private persons are, in general, prohibited by the law of Christ
to revenge themselves, resist evil, &c., so are states, and, con
sequently, magistrates. But then as private persons have, under
Christianity, that perfect law of liberty, a power to punish
injuries done to themselves, oppose violence offered to them
selves, &c. when their view in this is a sincere regard to others,
as affected by these injuries and violences ; so magistrates have a
power, and by consequence lie under an obligation, of the like
kind, where the real motive is tenderness to their own people in a
just cause, or a regard to the general welfare of their own state,
and the neighbouring ones. Secondly, Though it seems entirely
unjustifiable for private persons to enter upon the profession of
war wantonly, and with a view to riches, honours, &c., especially
since so much violence and cruelty, and so many temptations,
attend this profession ; yet where a person is already engaged,
and has very urgent reasons restraining hiin from withdrawing, or
receives a particular command from a lawful magistrate, it seems
to be allowable, or even his duty.
L L
514 THE RULE OF LIFE.
SECT. VII.
OF THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF
THEOPATHY, IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXXI. — The love of God regulates, improves, and
perfects all the other Parts of our Nature ; and affords a
Pleasure superior in Kind and Degree to all the rest ; it is
therefore our primary Pursuit, and ultimate End.
In what manner the precepts of piety regulate, improve, and
perfect the four inferior classes of pleasure, viz. those of sensa
tion, imagination, ambition, and self-interest, has been shewn
already in this chapter. But the precepts of piety are those
which teach us, what homage of our affections, and external
actions, ought to be addressed to the Deity in a direct and
immediate manner ; and it will appear under the two next pro
positions, in which the affections and actions enjoined by piety
are particularly considered, that all these terminate ultimately in
the love of God, and are absorbed by it : the love of God does
therefore regulate, improve, and perfect all the four inferior
classes of pleasure.
The same thing is evident with respect to the whole of our
natures, in a shorter manner, and according to the usual sense, in
which the phrase of the love of God is taken. For the perpetual
exertion of a pleasing affection towards a Being infinite in power,
knowledge, and goodness, and who is also our friend and father,
cannot but enhance all our joys, and alleviate all our sorrows ;
the sense of his presence and protection will restrain all actions
that are excessive, irregular, or hurtful ; support and encourage
us in all such as are of a contrary nature ; and infuse such peace
and tranquillity of mind, as will enable us to see clearly, and act
uniformly. The perfection therefore of every part of our natures
must depend upon the love of God and the constant comfortable
sense of his presence.
With respect to benevolence, or the love of our neighbour, it
may be observed, that this can never be free from partiality and
selfishness, till we take our station in the divine nature, and view
every thing from thence, and in the relation which it bears to
God. If the relation to ourselves be made the point of view,
our prospect must be narrow, and the appearance of what we do
see distorted. . When we consider the scenes of folly, vanity, and
misery, which must present themselves to our sight in this point;
when we are disappointed in the happiness of our friends, or feel
the resentment of our enemies; our benevolence will begin to
languish, and our hearts to fail us ; we shall complain of the
corruption and wickedness of that world, which we have hitherto
THE RULE OF LIFE. 515
loved with a benevolence merely human ; and shew by our com
plaints, that we are still deeply tinctured with the same corruption
and wickedness. This is generally the case with young and un
experienced persons, in the beginning of a virtuous course, and
before they have made a due advancement in the ways of piety.
Human benevolence, though sweet in the mouth, is bitter in the
belly ; and the disappointments which it meets with, are some
times apt to incline us to call the divine goodness in question.
But he who is possessed of a full assurance of this, who loves
God with his whole powers, as an inexhaustible fountain of love
and beneficence to all his creatures, at all times, and in all places,
as much when he chastises, as when he rewards, will learn thereby
to love enemies, as well as friends ; the sinful and miserable, as
well as the holy and happy ; to rejoice and give thanks, for every
thing which he sees and feels, however irreconcilable to his
present suggestions; and to labour, as an instrument under God,
for the promotion of virtue and happiness, with real courage
and constancy, knowing that his labour shall not be in vain in
the Lord.
In like manner, the moral sense requires a perpetual direction
and support from the love of God, in order to keep it steady and
pure. When men cease to regard God in a due measure, and to
make him their ultimate end, having some other end, beyond
which they do not look, they are very apt to relapse into negli
gence and callosity, and to act without any virtuous principle ;
and, on the other hand, if they often look up to him, but not
with a filial love and confidence, those weighty matters of the law,
they tithe mint, anise, atid cumin, and fill themselves with endless
scruples and anxieties about the lawfulness and unlawfulness of
trivial actions : whereas he who loves God with all his heart,
cannot but have a constant care not to offend him, at the same
time that his amiable notions of God, and the consciousness of
his love and sincerity towards him, are such a fund of hope
and joy, as precludes all scruples that are unworthy of the
divine goodness, or unsuitable to our present state of frailty and
ignorance.
We are next to shew, that the love of God affords a pleasure
which is superior in kind and degree to all the rest, of which our
natures are capable. Now this will appear,
First, Because God is light, and in him there is no darkness at
all; because he is love itself, such love as quite casts out allfear.
The love and contemplation of his perfection and happiness will
transform us into his likeness, into that image of him in which
we were first made ; will make us partakers of the divine nature,
and consequently of the perfection and happiness of it. Our
wills may thus be united to his will, and therefore rendered free
from disappointments ; we shall, by degrees, see every thing as
God sees it, i. e. see every thing that he has made to be good, to
be an object of pleasure. It is true, that all this, in its perfect
l l 2
516 THE RULE OF LIFE.
sense, in its ultimate ratio, can only be said by way of antici
pation : whilst we carry these fleshly tabernacles about with us,
we must have,crosses to bear, frailties, and thorns in the flesh, to
struggle with. But still our strength will at last be made perfect
through weakness; and some devout persons appear to have been
so far transformed, in this life, as to acquiesce, and even rejoice,
in the events of it, however afflicting apparently, to be freed from
fear and solicitude, and to receive their daily bread with constant
thankfulness, with joy unspeakable, and full of glorj. And
though the number of these happy persons has probably been
very small comparatively, though the path be not frequented and
beaten ; yet we may assure ourselves, that it is in the power of
all to arrive at the same state, if their love and devotion be
sufficiently earnest. All other loves, with all their defilements
and idolatries, will die away in due order and proportion, in the
heart which yields itself to God : for they are all impure and
idolatrous, except when considered as the methods appointed by
God to beget in us the love of himself : they all leave stains ;
have a mixture of evil as well as of good ; they must all be tried
and purified by the fire of his love, and pass thereby from human
to divine.
Secondly, God is our centre, and the love of him a pleasure
superior to all the rest, not only on account of the mixture of
pain in all the rest, as shewnTin the last paragraph, but also
because they all point to it, like so many lines terminating in the
same centre. When men have entered sufficiently into the ways
of piety, God appears more and more to them in the whole course
and tenor of their lives ; and by uniting himself with all their
sensations, and intellectual perceptions, overpowers all the pains;
augments, and attracts to himself, all the pleasures. Every thing
sweet, beautiful, or glorious, brings in the idea of God, mixes
with it, and vanishes into it. For all is God's ; he is the only
cause and reality ; and the existence of every thing else is only
the effect, pledge, and proof, of his existence and glory. Let the
mind be once duly seasoned with this truth, and its practical
applications, and every the most indifferent thing will become
food for religious meditation, a book of devotion, and a psalm of
praise. And when the purity and perfection of the pleasures of
theopathy, set forth in the last article, are added to their unlimited
extent, as it appears in this, it is easy to see, that they must be
far superior to all the rest both in kind and degree. We may
see also, that the frame of our nature, and particularly its sub
jection to the power of association, has an obvious and necessary
tendency to make the love of God, in fact, superior to our other
affections. If we suppose creatures subject to the law of associa
tion to be placed in the midst of a variety of pleasures and pains,
the sum total of the first being greater than that of the last, and
to connect God with each as its sole cause, pain will be over
powered by pleasure, and the indefinite number of compound
' THE RULE OF LIFE. 517
pleasures resulting from association be at last united entirely
with the idea of God. And this our ultimate happiness will
be accelerated or retarded, according as we apply ourselves more
or less to the cultivation of the devout affections, to reading,
and meditation upon divine subjects, to prayer and praise.
Thus we shall the sooner learn to join with the angels, and
spirits of just men made perfect, in ascribing power, and riches,
and wisdom, arid strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing,
and every associated lustre, to their true fountain, to God and
the Lamb.
Thirdly, As all the other pleasures have a mixture of pain and
impurity in them, and are all evidently means, not ends, so are
the objects of them frequently taken from us ; whereas no time,
place, or circumstance of life, can deprive us of—no height, depth,
or creature of any kind, can separate us from—the love of God.
Our hearts may be turned to him in the greatest external con
fusion, as well as in the deepest silence and retirement. All the
duties of life, when directed to God, become pleasures; and by
the same means, every the smallest action becomes the discharge
of the proper duty of the time and place. Thus we may redeem
our time, and turn it to the best advantage ; thus we may con
vert every situation and event of life into present comfort, and
future felicity.
Fourthly, When the love of God is made thus to arise from
every object, and to exert itself in every action, it becomes of a
permanent nature, suitable to our present frame; and will not-
pass into deadness, and disgust, as our other pleasures do from
repeated gratification.
It is true indeed, that novices in the ways of piety and devotion
are frequently, and more experienced persons sometimes, affected
with spiritual aridity and dejection ; but then this seems to be
either from pride, or spiritual selfishness, i. e. from the impurity
of their love to God. They give themselves up perhaps to
raptures, and ecstatic transports, from the present pleasures
which they afford, to the neglect of the great duties of life, of
charity, friendship, industry ; or they think themselves the
peculiar favourites of heaven on account of these raptures ; and
despise and censure others, as of inferior classes in the school of
piety. Now these violent agitations of the brain cannot recur
often without passing out of the limits of pleasure into those of
pain ; and particularly into the mental pains of moroseness,
jealousy, fear, dejection, and melancholy. Both the greatness
and the sameness of the pleasures concur, as in other cases, to
convert them into pains. But it does not appear, that those who
seek God in all his works, and receive all the pleasures and pains
which the order of his providence offers, with thankfulness, and
fidelity in their duty, as coming from his hand, would either want
that variety, or that temperature, which in our present state is
necessary to make the love of God a perpetual fund of joy. And
518 THE RULE OF LIFE.
it seems peculiarly proper to remark here, that if the primitive
Christians, instead of retiring into deserts, caves, and cells, for
the cultivation of speculative devotion, had continued to shew
forth and practise the love of God by exposing themselves to all
such difficulties and dangers, as had arisen in the incessant pro
pagation of the everlasting gospel, to every nation, and kindred,
and tongue, and people, they would perhaps have rejoiced ever
more, even in the greatest tribulations, as the apostles, and their
immediate followers, who kept theirfirst love, seem to have done ;
also that the present and future generations of Christians can
never be delivered from superstitious fears and anxieties, from
dryness, scrupulosity, and dejection, till they go into all the
world, and preach the gospel to every creature, according to our
Saviour's last command. However, till this happy time comes,
the alloy of the pleasures of theopathy with pain serves to remind
us of our fallen state, and of the greatness of our fall, since our
primary and purest pleasures are subject to such an alloy ; and
thus, learning compassion, humility, and submission to God, we
shall be exalted thereby, and after we have suffered a while, be
perfected, stablished, strengthened, settled.
Prop. LXXII. — To deduce practical Rules concerning the
Theopathetic Affections, Faith, Fear, Gratitude, Hope, Trust,
Resignation, and Love.
Faith in God.
The first of the theopathetic affections is faith. He that
cometh to God must believe that he is ; and that he is a rewarder
of them that diligently seek him. But this faith is of very dif
ferent degrees, even in those who equally acknowledge their
belief of the existence of God, and agree in their expressions
concerning his nature and attributes, according as their ideas of
this kind are more or less vivid and perfect, and recur more or
less frequently in the events of life. It is probable indeed, that
no man, especially in a christian country, can be utterly devoid
of faith. The impression made upon us in infancy, our conver
sation afterwards, the books that we read, and the wonders of
the visible world, all concur to generate ideas of the power and
knowledge of God at least, and to excite such degrees of fear, as
give a reality to the ideas, and extort so much of assent, that the
most professed atheists, did they reflect upon what passes in their
thoughts, and declare it sincerely, could not but acknowledge,
that at certain times they are like the devils, who believe and
tremble. After these come the persons who dare not but own
God in words, who have few or no objections to his nature and
attributes, or who can even produce many arguments and demon
strations in favour of them ; and yet put away the thoughts of
God as much as they are able. The next degree is of such as
THE RULE OF LIFE. 519
try to serve God and Mammon together, in various proportions ;
till at last we come to those, whose heart is perfect before God,
who love him with all their powers, and walk in his presence
continually. Now this last state of faith is that which the Scrip
ture puts as equivalent to our whole duty : for in this last state
it comprehends, and coincides with, all the other theopathetic
affections, when they are likewise carried to their ultimate per
fection. In their first rise they all differ from one another ; in
their last state they all unite together, and may be expressed by
the name of any single one, when supposed perfect ; though the
most usual, proper, and emphatic appellation seems to be the
phrase of the love of God, as before noted. Let us now inquire
by what methods men may be most accelerated in their progress
from the first dawnings of faith in infancy to its ultimate per
fection.
First, then, An early acquaintance with the Scriptures, and
the constant study of them, is the principal means whereby this
faith is first to be generated, and afterwards improved and per
fected. God taught mankind before the flood, and for some
ages afterwards, his existence, nature, and attributes, by express
revelation ; and therefore it cannot but be the proper method
for begetting faith in children, who are more ignorant, and
unqualified for rational deductions, than adults in the rudest
ages of the world, to initiate them early in the records of religion.
And though afterwards the invisible things of God may be known
by the visible creation, yet the miracles delivered in the Scrip
tures have a peculiar tendency to awaken the attention, and to
add that force, lustre, and veneration, to our ideas of God, and
his attributes, which are the causes and concomitants of assent or
faith, according to the theory of these papers. The same thing
holds of the prophecies, precepts, promises, and threatenings of
the Scriptures, in their respective degrees; and it seems, in a
manner, impossible for any one to be perpetually conversant in
them, without this happy influence. All those persons therefore,
who are so far advanced in faith, as to cry out with the father of
the lunatic in the gospel, Lord, I believe; help thou my unbelief;
ought, in consequence of this prayer, to apply themselves to the
daily study of, and meditation upon, the Scriptures. To which
it is to be added, that as faith in Christ is also necessary, as well
as faith in the one God and Father of all, and can be learnt no
other way than from the Scriptures, we ought upon this account
also to esteem them as the principal means, which God has put
in our power, for the generation and improvement of our faith :
faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
Secondly, To the study of the word of God must be joined
that of his works. They are in all things analogous to each
other, and are perpetually comments upon each other. I do not
mean that a man must be a deep philosopher, in order to have
faith in God ; for, on the contrary, philosophical researches,
520 THE RULE OF LIFE.
when pursued from curiosity or ambition, are vain deceit, and
lead people to make shipwreck of faith. I would only recom
mend to every person, according to his knowledge and abilities,
to consider the works of God as his works ; to refer all the
power, wisdom, and goodness in them to Him, as the sole foun
tain of these ; and to dwell upon the vastness, the lustre, the
beauty, the beneficence, which are obvious to vulgar as well as
philosophic eyes, till such time as they have raised devotion in
the heart. Such exercises would greatly assist to overcome that
gloominess and scepticism, which sometimes hang about our
conceptions of the invisible world, and by their reiterated im
pressions generate the causes of assent. We have examples of
this in the Old Testament, particularly in the Psalms ; and the
writers do not seem to have been eminent for any peculiar depth
in curious inquiries. Men of the ordinary ranks in life in these
times have as much probably of the mysteries of nature unfolded
to them, as great saints in ancient times; so that they want
nothing to enable them to draw the same faith and devotion
from the works of creation, but the same earnest desire to do it,
Thirdly, An upright heart, and a sincere endeavour to do our
whole duty, are necessary to support our faith after it is generated.
While any sin remains unconquered, while there are any secret
misgivings, the idea of God will be so uneasy to the mind, as not
to recur frequently ; men will seek for refuge in vain amuse
ments ; and the false hopes of this world will exclude the real ones
of another, and make religion appear like a dream. This is the
case with far the greatest part of mankind ; they live rather by
sight tha*i faith; and are not sufficiently aware, that a little leaven
leavens the whole lump, and that one favourite pursuit of this world
totally eclipses those glories of the other, that sight of the invisible
God, which the pure in heart, like Moses, are favoured with.
The same partiality of our obedience and devotion is the cause
that the writings of the Old and New Testaments do not at once
convince all, who peruse them, of their divine authority, and of
the consequent truth of revealed religion. We judge of the
frame of men's minds by that of our own, as appears from the
theory of association ; and whatever differs in a great degree
from our own, puts on the appearance of something romantic and
incredible. This is evident in the daily intercourses of human
life. Corrupt and designing men put the falsest and most un
natural constructions upon the actions of the bulk of mankind,
and often deceive themselves thereby ; and the bulk of mankind
are quite at a loss to conceive and believe the possibility of very
heroical, generous, pious actions. And thus profane men turn
into ridicule passages in the Scriptures, which demand the
highest admiration and applause ; and men of inferior degrees of
goodness, though they do not assent to this, are a little staggered
at it. But they who will do the will of God, will soon perceive
the doctrine of the Scriptures to be from him; they who will
THE RULE OF LIFE. 521
press forward to the perfection of Moses, Daniel, St. Peter, or
St. Paul, will not only acquit them readily of the charge of
enthusiasm and imposture, but will also see and feel experi
mentally such unquestionable criterions of truth, such a reality,
in their words and actions, as will dispel all the mists of scep
ticism and infidelity, with regard either to natural or revealed
religion.
It is much to be wished, that these things were seriously
weighed, and laid to heart, by those half-pious persons, who
abstain from gross sins, and seek, though they do not strive, to
enter in at the strait gate, who are not far from the kingdom of
God. These persons might, by a little more attention to the
word and works of God in a practical way, and casting away the
sin that does most easily beset them, not only arrive at that full
assurance of faith, which is our greatest happiness in this world,
and the earnest of an eternal crown hereafter, but also let their
light so shine before men, as that they, seeing their good works,
would glorify their Father, which is in heaven.
The Fear of God.
The immediate consequence of faith in God, in its imperfect
state, is fear. And though love does arise also, yet it is faint
and transient for a long time, whereas the fear is strong and
vivid, and recurs generally with every recollection of the divine
attributes. The cause of all this is unfolded in these papers.
For, fear being the offspring of bodily pain, and this being much
more acute than bodily pleasure, the parent of love, it follows
that fear must, in general, be stronger than love in their nascent
state. The august ideas of infinite time and space, of the glories
of heaven, and the torments of hell, of the great works of the
creation, &c. which accompany the idea of God, farther contri
bute to agitate the mind, and to carry it within the limits of
pain or fear. At the same time we see, that these terrifying
ideas, when mixed with those which generate love, and moderated
by frequent recurrency, and other means, so as to fall back
within the limits of pleasure, must greatly increase our love, and
other pleasing affections, exerted towards the Deity. We are to
inquire therefore, both how the fear of God may most effectually
be generated, and how it may be converted most speedily into
love and delight in God. And the answer will be, that we must
make use of the means before recommended for the generation
and increase of faith, viz. the study of the word and works of
God, and a sincere endeavour to discharge the whole of our
duty.
That the last is necessary to keep up the fear of God, may
appear, inasmuch as those who continue to disobey, must, by
degrees, fall into insensibility and callosity ; the frequent returns
of the ideas of guilt and fear make them sit easier upon the
522 THE RULE OF LIFE.
mind, at the same time that the remaining uneasiness keeps these
ideas, with all their associates, out of view, in a great measure, as
has been mentioned already.
Gratitude towards God.
Gratitude or thankfulness to God arises from the recollection
of benefits received, just as that to men. And if we could see
and feel practically and perpetually, that God is the sole spring
of all action, our gratitude to God would absorb all kinds and
degrees of it paid to men. Could we also look with the eye of
faith into futurity, and be convinced really, that eye hath not seen,
nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man to
conceive, what things God has preparedfor such as love him ; that
all things work together for their good, trials and afflictions as
much or more than any thing else; that every creature shall
love, and bless, and praise God at last, and every one partake of
the happiness of all the rest, whilst yet we all, who are thus
heirs of an excess of glory, perfection, and happiness, are creatures
of yesterday, called forth from nothing by God's almighty word ;
if, farther, we consider, that the Son of God became flesh, took
our infirmities and sorrows, and at last died for us, God conde
scending thus to recommend and evidence his infinite love to us ;
our hearts could not but overflow with such gratitude, as even to
overpower our faith for a while. We should then acknowledge,
that all we are, and have, and hope for, are from him ; we should
praise him for all the blessings past, present, and future, which
we receive in our own persons, or in those of our feliow-creatures ;
and desire nothing so ardently, as to be admitted into his presence,
and the society of those happy beings, who rest not day and
night, saying, Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty, which teas,
and is, and is to come.
Hope and Trust in God, and Resignation to his Will.
Hope and trust in God differ only in degree, the last being a
firmer hope, and, as it were, an assurance of the favour of God to
ourselves in particular ; and that he will provide for all our wants.
Resignation is the same hope and trust exerted, notwithstanding
that present appearances may be contrary thereto : it is the
submission of our own wills and judgments to God's, with an
entire confidence in his care and goodness. Let us endeavour to
place this hope, trust, and resignation, upon a sure foundation,
laid in the word and works of God.
First, then, The Scriptures give the strongest and plainest
assurances, that all those who love and obey God here, will be
admitted to pure, exalted, and eternal happiness at the expiration
of this life. If therefore our hearts do not condemn us, we may
have this confidence in him ; we may have an entire hope and trust
THE RULE OF LIFE. 523
in him, as to the most weighty of all points, our eternal salva
tion. And though natural reason- could not have discovered this
inestimable hope to us, though it was not able to bring life and
immortality to light, Christ being the only sure and stedfast
anchor of that hope, which reaches beyond the veil of death ; yet
it readily concurs with all the Scripture declarations of this kind,
and even affords a comfortable probability of itself, after we have
once been enlightened by revelation.
Secondly, The Scriptures, the voice of reason, and careful
observation, all concur to assure us, that a secret providence
attends upon the good ; protects and blesses them in the events of
the present life, ordinary and extraordinary ; delivers them in
great trials and afflictions ; and disposes every incident and cir
cumstance in such a manner, as they would wish and desire for
themselves, could they judge aright, and take the whole of things
into their view. Now the full persuasion of this would be a most
endearing motive to trust and confidence in God. For the things
of this life, however inconsiderable when compared to those of
another, do most sensibly affect even good men ; and, till they
can arrive at a due indifference to this world, it is highly requisite,
that they should turn their excess of sensibility into a motive to
gratitude and trust.
Thirdly, The assurance that all our afflictions are the chastise
ments of our heavenly Father, and equally productive of happi
ness with the other events of our lives, as mentioned in the last
paragraph, enables us to resign ourselves. The highest act of
this kind is, for the most part, in the article of death, when we
are surrounded with infirmity, pain, and darkness, and when all
inferior comforts must be given up. Now this theopathetic
affection of resignation, though it is in its first state painful, and
difficult to corrupt nature ; yet in its progress it becomes easy,
and at last affords the deepest peace and satisfaction. By resign
ing all, we are delivered from every anxiety and disquietude, and
enter upon the next period of our existence with an impartiality
and freedom, that qualify us to enjoy whatever the order of
Providence bestows. And unless we were exercised with some
trials and temptations of this kind, unless our wills were some
times disappointed, we should at last be swallowed up by mere
wilfulness, and pursue every object of desire with an uncon
querable eagerness and obstinacy : we should also idolize our
selves, as the authors of our success and blessings ; or, at the
utmost, should look no farther than the course of nature, and
blind unmeaning fate ; whereas by learning a ready compliance
with the will of God, however unexpected, we become partakers
of his happiness ; for his will can never be disappointed.
Fourthly, Those persons who believe the goodness of God,
according to the third of the suppositions before-mentioned, i. e.
who believe that he will advance all his creatures to unlimited
happiness ultimately, may much more easily resign themselves
524- THE RULE OF LIFE.
to God, in all respects, spiritual as well as temporal, on that
account. But it appears, that very pious persons have an entire
resignation without any distinct conception or belief of this
hypothesis. They know and feel, as it were, that God is infi
nitely good, and that the Judge of all the earth must do right ;
and, in this confidence, they leave the mysteries of his Providence,
his unsearchable judgments, to be unfolded in his own time,
preserving themselves from disquietude by an humble religious
scepticism. But if it should please God to display the riches of
his mercy in the full discovery and establishment of the doctrine
of universal restoration, in the latter times, which are now ap
proaching, it will become us first to receive it with the highest
gratitude, and then to use it as a means of accelerating our
progress towards the absolute resignation of ourselves, and all our
fellow-creatures, into the hands of God.
Fifthly, As the considerations contained in the four last para
graphs may contribute to beget hope, trust, and resignation in
us, so all the foregoing theopathetic affections, and particularly
gratitude, with all the means of obtaining them, conspire to the
same purpose, as will be easily seen.
The Love of God.
The love of God may be considered as the last of the theopa
thetic affections, as before remarked ; for they all end in it, and
it is the sum total of them all. In its first rise, it must, like all
the rest of them, resemble the sympathetic one of the same name ;
and thus it differs from the rest in their first rise, and is, as it
were, contrary to fear. In its first rise it is often tinctured with
fondness and familiarity, and leans much towards enthusiasm ;
as on the other hand, the fear is often at first a slavish super
stitious dread. By degrees the fear and love qualify each other;
and, by uniting with the other theopathetic affections, they all
together coalesce into a reverential, humble, filial love, attended
with a peace, comfort, and joy, that pass all belief of those who
have not experienced it ; so that they look upon the discourses
and writings of those who have, to be either hypocrisy, or
romantic jargon. The book of Psalms affords the sublimest and
most correct expressions of this kind, and can never be too much
studied by those who would cherish, purify, and perfect in
themselves a devout frame of mind. And this single circum
stance, exclusive of all other considerations, appears to me a
most convincing proof of the divine authority of this book, and
consequently of the rest of the books of the Old and New Testa
ment. But they have all the same evidence in their favour, in
their respective degrees; they are all helps to beget in us the
love of God, and tests whether we have it or no; and he who
meditates dag and night in the law of God, joining thereto the
practical contemplation of his works, as prescribed by the Scrip
THE RULE OF LIFE.
tures, and the purification of his hands and heart, will soon
arrive at that devout and happy state, which is signified by the
love of God. I will here add some practical consequences
resulting from what has been advanced concerning the theopa-
thetic affections.
First, then, Though an excess of passion of every kind, such
as is not under the command of the voluntary power, is to be
avoided, as dangerous and sinful; yet we must take care to serve
God with our affections, as well as our outward actions ; and
indeed, unless we do the first, we shall not long continue to do
the last, the internal frame of our minds being the source and
spring from whence our external actions flow. God, who gives
us all our faculties and powers, has a right to all ; and it is a
secret disloyalty and infidelity, not to pay the tribute of our
affections. They are evidently in our power, immediately or
mediately ; and therefore he who goes to his profession, occupa
tion, or amusements, with more delight and pleasure than to his
exercises of devotion, his reading and meditation upon divine
subjects, and his prayers and praises, whose soul is not athirst for
the living God, and the water of life, may assuredly conclude,
that he is not arrived at the requisite degree of perfection ; that
he still hankers after mammon, though he may have some real
desires, and earnest resolutions, with respect to God.
Secondly, Though this be true in general, and a truth of' the
greatest practical importance; yet there are some reasons, in
which all the theopathetic affections, and many in which those
of the delightful kind, are languid, and that even in persons that
are far advanced in purity and perfection. Thus the enthusiastic
raptures, which often take place in the beginning of a religious
course, by introducing an opposite state, disqualify some; a
Judaical rigour and exactitude in long exercises, bodily disorders,
&c. ; others, from feeling God to be their present joy and com
fort. So that the fervours of devotion are by no means in exact
proportion to the degree of advancement in piety ; we can by
no means make them a criterion of our own progress, or that of
others. But then they are always some presumption; and it is
far better, that they should have some mixture even of enthu
siasm, than not take place at all. As to those who are in the
dry and dejected state, the fear of God is, for the most part,
sufficiently vivid in them. Let them therefore frequently recol
lect, that the fear of God is a scripture criterion and seal of the
elect, as well as love. Let them consider, that this trial must be
submitted to, as much as any other, till patience have her perfect
work; that it is more purifying than common trials; that the
state of fear is far more safe, and a much stronger earnest of sal
vation, than premature and ecstatic transports; and that, if they
continue faithful, it will end in love, probably during this life,
certainly in another. Lastly, that no feeble-minded person may
be left without comfort, if there be any one who doubts whether
526 THE RULE OF LIFE.
he either loves or fears God, finding nothing but dulness, anxiety,
and scrupulosity, within him, he must be referred to his external
actions, as the surest criterion of his real intentions in this con
fused and disorderly state of the affections : and at the same time
admonished not to depend upon his external righteousness,
which would breed an endless scrupulosity, and an endeavour
after an useless exactitude, but to take refuge in the mercy of
God through Jesus Christ.
Lastly, The cultivation of the love of God in ourselves by the
methods here recommended, and all others that suit our state
and condition, with a prudent caution, to avoid enthusiasm on
one hand, and superstition on the other, is the principal means
for preserving us from dejection of every kind, and freeing us, if
we be fallen into it. Worldly sorrows must by degrees die away,
because worldly desires, their sources, wilh And this progress
will be much accelerated by the impressions of a contrary nature,
which gratitude, hope, love towards God, will make upon the
mind. As to the dejection which relates to another world, it
generally ends, as has been frequently remarked already, in the
opposite state, being its own remedy and cure; but all direct
endeavours after the true and pure love of God must assist. It
is much to be wished, that low-spirited persons of all kinds
would open themselves without reserve to religious friends, and
particularly to such as have passed through the same dark and
dismal path themselves, and, distrusting their judgments, would
resign themselves for a time to some person of approved expe
rience and piety. These would be like guardian angels to them ;
and as our natures are so communicative, and susceptible of in
fection good and bad, they would by degrees infuse something
of their own peaceable, cheerful, and devout spirit into them.
But all human supports and comforts are to be at last resigned ;
we must have no Comforter, no God, but one; and happy are
they who make haste towards this central point, in which alone
we can find rest to our souls.
Scholium.
If we consider the love of the world, the fear of God, and the
love of God, in the first ratio which they bear to each other, it
will appear, that the love of the world is infinitely greater than
the fear of God, and the fear infinitely greater than the love ; so
that the fear of God is a middle proportional between the love of
the world and the love of God, in the first or nascent ratio of these
affections. In like manner, if we take their last ratio, or that in
which the love of the world, and the fear of God, vanish into the
love of God, the love of the world will be infinitely less than the
fear of God, and the fear infinitely less than the love; so that
the fear of God will still be a middle proportional between the
love of the world and the love of God. Let us suppose the fear
THE RULE OF LIFE. 527
of God to be a middle proportional between the love of the world
and the love of God in all the intermediate states of these affec
tions, from their first rise in infancy, till their ultimate absorption
and evanescence in the love of God, and see how this supposition
will tally with experience, and how each affection varies in respect
of the other two. Call therefore the love of the world W, the fear
of God F, and the love of God L. Since then W : F: : F : L,
F* 1
W= j-. If now F be supposed to remain the same W: : jr, i.e.
every diminution of the love of the world will increase the love of
God, and vice versd ; so that, if the love of the world be nothing,
the love of God will be infinite, also infinitely greater than the
fear, i. e. we shall be infinitely happy. If, on the contrary, the
love of the world be greater than the love of God, the fear will
also be greater than it, and our religion be chiefly anxiety and
superstition. If, farther, F, supposed still to remain the same,
be greater than W, it is our truest interest to diminish W as
much as we can, because then the gain in L is far greater than the
loss in W. If L remain the same, then W=F*, i.e. every increase
of W will increase F also, i. e. every increase of the love of the
world will increase the fear of God, which therefore, since the
love is not increased by supposition, must incline to a supersti
tious dread : as, on the contrary, if W vanishes, F must vanish
also, i. e. the love of the world and fear being both annihilated,
we shall receive pure happiness of a finite degree, from the love
of God. If W remain the same, then F*: : L, i. e. every accession
made to the fear of God will be the cause of a greater accession
to the love, and every accession to the love the cause of only a
less accession to the fear, i. e. we shall be gainers upon the whole
by all motives either to the fear or love of God, losers by all
contrary motives. For if F be supposed even infinite, L will be
infinito-infinite, i. e. will absorb it infinitely ; and if F be in
finitesimal, L will be infinito-infinitesimal, i. e. we shall become
mere selfish worldlings, which is the case with those practical
atheists, who succeed in their endeavours to put God, and a
future state, out of their thoughts, that they may give themselves
up to this world. W now occupies the place of L, and extin
guishes both F and it ; i. e. self and the world are their god.
Upon the whole, it follows from this speculation, concerning the
quantities W, F, and L, that W ought to be diminished, and F
and L to be increased, as much as possible, that so W may be
indefinitely less than F, and F indefinitely less than L ; i. e. we
ourselves indefinitely happy in the love of God, by the previous
annihilation of self and the world. And it may not perhaps be
quite unuseful to have represented this most important of all
conclusions, with the steps that lead to it, in this new and com
pendious light.
528 THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXXIII.—To deduce practical Rules concerning the
Manner of expressing the Theopathetic Affections by Prayer,
and other religious Exercises.
There cannot be a more fatal delusion, than to suppose, that
religion is nothing but a divine philosophy in the soul ; and that
the foregoing theopathetic affections may exist and flourish there,
though they be not cultivated by devout exercises and expressions.
Experience, and many plain obvious reasons, shew the falsehood
and mischievous tendency of this notion ; and the theory of these
papers may furnish us with other reasons to the same purpose, of
a deeper and more subtle nature. It follows from this theory,
that no internal dispositions can remain long in the mind, unless
they be perpetually nourished by proper associations, i. e. by some
external acts. This therefore may be considered as a strong
argument for frequent prayer.
But, secondly, Though God be in himself infinite in power,
knowledge, goodness, and happiness, i. e. acquainted with all our
wants, ready and able to supply them, and incapable of change
through our entreaties and importunities; yet, as he represents
himself to us both in his word and works in the relation of a
father and governor, our associated nature compels us, as it were,
to apply to him in the same way as we do to earthly fathers and
governors ; and, by thus compelling us, becomes a reason for so
doing. If God's incomprehensible perfection be supposed to
exclude prayer, it will equally exclude all thoughts and discourses
concerning him ; for these are all equally short and unworthy of
him ; which is direct atheism.
Thirdly, Though the hypothesis of mechanism may seem at
first sight to make prayer superfluous and useless ; yet, upon
farther consideration, it will be found quite otherwise. For if all
things be conducted mechanically, i. e. by means ; then prayer
may be the means of procuring what we want. Our ignorance
of the manner in which things operate, is not the least evidence
against their having a real operation. If all be conducted me
chanically, some means must be made use of for procuring our
wants. The analogy of all other things intimates, that these
means must proceed in part from man. The analogy taken
from the relations of father and governor suggests prayer. It
follows therefore, according to the mechanical hypothesis, that
prayer is one of the principal means whereby we may obtain
our desires.
Fourthly, If all these reasons were set aside, the pressing
nature of some of our wants would extort prayers from us, and
therefore justify them.
Fifthly, In like manner, the theopathetic affections, if they be
sufficiently strong, will break forth into prayers and praises, as in
the authors of the Psalms, and other devout persons.
Lastly, The Scriptures direct and command us to pray, to pray
THE RULE OF LIFE. 529
always, in every thing to give thanks ; and support the foregoing
and such like reasons for prayer and praise. And this removes
all doubt and scruple, if any should remain, from the infinite
nature and majesty of God. We may be satisfied from the
Scriptures, that we have the privilege to pray, to expose all our
wants, desires, joys, and griefs, to our Creator; and that he will
hear us, and help us.
As to the time, manner, and requisites of prayer, we may make
the following observations.
First, That words are of great use in the most private prayer,
because of the associations transferred upon them, and which
therefore they excite in the mind. But then, as there are inter
nal sentiments and combinations of these, to which no words can
correspond, we must not confine the noble privilege of prayer
and praise to our languages, which are the offspring of the con
fusion at Babel. There are therefore proper seasons and occasions
for mental prayer, for the tendency and aspiration of the heart
to God without words, as well as for vocal prayer. And indeed
all private vocal prayer seems to admit of, and require mental
prayer, at short intervals, in order to fix our attention, and exalt
our affections, by giving scope to the secondarily automatic work
ings of a devout heart.
Secondly, Forms of prayer, composed by persons of a devout
spirit, are of use to all at certain times for assisting the invention,
and exciting fervency ; and in the beginning of a religious course
they seem to be necessary, as they certainly are for children.
But it would be a great hindrance to the growth and perfection
of our devotion, always to keep to forms. The heart of every
particular person alone knows its own bitterness, its desires,
guilt, fears, hopes, and joys; and it will be impossible to open
ourselves without reserve, and with a filial love and confidence in
God, unless we do it of ourselves, in such words as the then
present state of mind, when under a vigorous sense of the divine
presence, shall suggest.
Thirdly, A regularity as to the times of private devotion helps
to keep persons steady in a religious course, and to call them off
again and again from pursuing and setting their hearts upon the
vanities of the world. And we may affirm in particular, that
the morning and evening sacrifice of private prayer and praise
ought never to be dispensed with, in ordinary cases, not even by
persons far advanced in the ways of piety. It seems also very
consonant to the true spirit of devotion, to have set hours of
prayer in the course of the day, as memorials and means of
begetting the spirit, which, however, cannot be observed by the
bulk of the world with exactness. Lastly, it will be of great use
to accustom ourselves to certain ejaculations upon the various
particular occasions that occur in the daily course of each person's
business and profession. It is true indeed, that all these rules
are of the nature of Judaical rites and ceremonies ; but then let
530 THE RULE OF LIFE.
it be considered, that even in christian countries every man must
be a Jew in effect, before he can arrive at christian liberty, and
be able to worship God in spirit and in truth, and indeed in
order to arrive thither. Times, forms, and rules of devotion, are
schoolmasters that serve to bring us to Christ. As for those
persons who are so far advanced, as to walk with God continually,
who sanctify the minutest actions by a perpetual dedication of
them to God, I do not presume to instruct them. Their anoint
ing teaches them all things.
Fourthly, The matter of our prayers must be different,
according to the state that we are in ; for in prayer we ought
always to lay our real case, whatever it be, before God. Con
fession of sins, and petition for graces, are the most useful and
requisite for young penitents, and must always have a consider
able share in those who are farther advanced. But when the
heart overflows with joy and gratitude to God, and tender love
to others, which is more frequently the case with those who have
kept their first love for some time, it is easy to see, that praise
and intercession must be most natural and suitable. Temporal
wants ought not to be forgotten. We are to acknowledge God
in every thing; consider him as our father, and only friend, upon
all occasions; place no confidence in our own wisdom or strength,
or in the course of nature ; have moderate desires, and be ready
to give up even these. Now prayer, with express acts of resigna
tion, in respect of external things, has a tendency to beget in us
such dispositions. However, I do not extend this to such persons
as are resigned to God in all things, temporal and spiritual, for
themselves as well as for others, who, desiring nothing but that
the will of God may be done, see also that it is done, and ac
quiesce and rejoice in it.
Fifthly, Prayer must always be accompanied by faith ; i. e. we
must not only look up to God, as our sole refuge, but as an
effectual one. He that believes the existence and attributes of
God really and practically, will have this entire confidence, so as
to be assured, that the thing desired of God will be granted,
either precisely as desired, or in some way more suitable to his
circumstances ; an act of resignation being here joined to one of
faith. How far our Saviour's directions concerning faith in
prayer are an encouragement and command to expect the precise
thing desired, is very doubtful to me. However, we may cer
tainly learn from his example, that resignation is a necessary
requisite in prayer: that we ought always to say, Nevertheless
not my will, but thine be done. - -
Sixthly, Public prayer is a necessary duty, as well as private.
By this we publicly profess our obedience to God through Christ;
we excite and are excited by others to fervency in devotion, and
to christian benevolence ; and we have a claim to the promise of
Christ to those who are assembled together in his name. The
christian religion has been kept alive, as one may say, during the
THE RULE OF LIFE. 531
great corruption and apostasy, by the public worship of God in
churches ; and it is probable, that religious assemblies will be
much more frequent than they now are, whenever it shall please
God to put into the hearts of Christians to proceed to the general
conversion of all nations. We ought therefore to prepare our
selves for, and hasten unto, this glorious time, as much as possi
ble, by joining together in prayers for this purpose ; and so much
the more, as we see the day approaching.
Lastly, Family prayer, which is something between the public
prayers of each church, and the private ones of each individual,
must be necessary, since these are. The same reasons are easily
applied. And I believe it may be laid down as a certain fact,
that no master or mistress of a family can have a true concern
for religion, or be a child of God, who does not take care to
worship God by family prayer. Let the observation of the fact
determine.
SECT. VIII.
THE REGARD DUE TO THE PLEASURES AND PAINS OF THE
MORAL SENSE IN FORMING THE RULE OF LIFE.
Prop. LXXIV.—The Moral Sense ought to be made the imme
diate Guide of our Actions on all sudden Emergencies ; and
therefore its Pleasures may be considered as making Part of
our primary Pursuit.
In deducing rules for social conduct above, I laid down the
moral sense as one, which ought to have great influence in the
most explicit and deliberate actions. Now this is, in some
measure, sufficient to prove, that its pleasures make part of our
primary pursuit. I here propose to shew, that the moral sense
ought not only to have some, but the sole influence, on emergent
occasions; and this will be a farther recommendation of its
pleasures.
That the moral sense is such an immediate guide, will appear
for the following reasons.
First, Because it offers itself in the various occurrences of life,
at the same time producing its credentials. For it warns us
before-hand, and calls us to account afterwards ; it condemns or
acquits ; it rewards by the pleasures of self-approbation, or
punishes by the pains of self-condemnation. It appears there
fore with the authority of a judge, and also of one who knows
the heart ; and, by consequence, it claims to be God's vicegerent,
and the, forerunner of the sentence which we may hereafter
expect from him.
M M 2
532 THE RULE OF LIFE.
Secondly, The moral sense is generated chiefly by piety, bene
volence, and rational self-interest; all which are explicit guides
of life in deliberate actions. Since therefore these are excluded
on sudden occasions, through the want of time to weigh and
determine, it seems highly reasonable to admit the moral sense,
which is their offspring, and whose dictates are immediate, for
their substitute.
Thirdly, The greatness, the permanency, and the calm nature
of the pleasures of the moral sense, with the horrors, and con
stant recurrency, of the sense of guilt, are additional arguments
to shew, that these pleasures and pains were intended for the
guides of life, and the pleasures for a primary pursuit.
Fourthly, The mechanical generation of the pleasures and
pains of the moral sense may by some be thought an objection to
the reasoning here used ; but it will appear otherwise upon due
consideration. For all the things which have evident final causes,
are plainly brought about by mechanical means ; so that we may
argue either way, vie. either from seeing the mechanical means,
to the existence of a final cause, not yet discovered ; or from the
existence of a final cause, to that of the mechanical means, not
yet discovered. Thus a person, who should take notice, that
milk always appeared in the breasts of the dam at the proper
season for the young animal, might conclude that this was
effected mechanically; or, if he first saw that milk must be
brought mechanically into the breasts, soon after the birth of the
young, he might conclude that this milk would be of some use ;
and, from a very little farther recollection, might perceive that it
was for the nourishment of the new-born animal. In like
manner, if any one sees, that a power, like that of conscience,
must be generated in the human mind, from the frame of it,
compared with the impressions made upon it by external objects,
he may be assured that this power must have some use ; and a
very little reflection upon the divine attributes, and the circum
stances of mankind, will shew that its peculiar use must be that
of a guide and governor.
If we could suppose the moral sense to be either an instinct
impressed by God, or the necessary result of the eternal reasons
and relations of things, independent of association, it ought still
to be considered as a guide of life. For since the favourers of
each of these suppositions maintain, that the moral sense is
entirely coincident with the precept of benevolence and piety ; it
must, according to them, be made their substitute upon emergent
occasions.
Prop. LXXV.—To deduce practical Rules for the Regulation
and Improvement of the Moral Sense.
There are. three things principally necessary in the conduct of
the moral sense. First, That it extend to all the actions of
THE RULE OF LIFE.
moment, which occur in the intercourses of human life ; and be
a ready monitor to us on such occasions. Secondly, That it
should not descend to minute and trifling particulars ; for then it
would check benevolence, and turn the love of God into a super
stitious fear. And, thirdly, That its informations be in all cases
agreeable to piety and benevolence, whose substitute it is.
Now it will be easily seen, that for the right conduct of our
moral sense in all these particulars, it will be necessary for us to
be much employed in the practical study of the Scriptures, and
of the writings of good men of all denominations, in observing
the living examples of such, in calling ourselves to account fre
quently, in prayer, and other exercises of devotion, in endeavour
ing to convert all the sympathetic and theopathetic affections
into the love of God, in aiming at a truly catholic and charitable
spirit, and in walking faithfully, according to the dictates of
benevolence, piety, and the moral sense, such as they are at
present. For to him that hath shall be given, and he shall have
abundance. Some of these directions are more particularly
suited to correct one defect in the moral sense, some another ;
but they will all conspire in purifying and perfecting it.
General Corollaries of the last seven Sections.
Cor. I. We may now, by reviewing the seven last Sections,
judge how much the christian morality is superior to the pagan
in sublimity and purity. The pagan morality was comprehended
under the four cardinal virtues of prudence, justice, fortitude,
and temperance ; and these were so explained and understood by
the pagans, as to omit many necessary christian virtues, and
allow, or even recommend, some great enormities. I will class a
few particulars of this kind under the respective heads of sensa
tion, imagination, ambition, self-interest, sympathy, theopathy,
and the moral sense.
The pagan virtue of temperance prohibited all gross excesses
in eating and drinking, and many acts of lewdness. But it fell
iar short of the christian precepts, in regard to the external
actions ; and seems no ways to have extended to the regulation
of the thoughts.
The pagan fortitude enjoined great patience and perseverance
in difficulties, pains, and dangers. But it was, in part, founded
in pride; and so was opposite to the christian fortitude, whose
strength lies in its weakness, in a diffidence in ourselves, and
confidence in God. And how much the Christian was superior
in degree, as well as kind, may appear from the examples of the
534 THE RULE OF LIFE.
martyrs and confessors in the primitive times, who were of all
ranks, professions, ages, and sexes, and of innumerable private
persons in the present as well as all past ages of the church, who
are able to rejoice in tribulation, and to do all things, through
Christ that strengtheneth them. They do not make a show of
themselves to the world; that would be ostentation, and vain
glory : but those who desire to be animated by, and to imitate,
such living examples, may find them in every christian country
in the world.
As to the pleasures of imagination, there seems to have been
no restraint laid upon them by the pagan morality. Curiosity,
and the study of the arts and sciences for their own sakes, were
even recommended.
Ambition was, in like manner, esteemed virtuous ; and many
kinds and degrees of humility were treated with reproach and
contempt.
Gross self-interest was allowed in a much greater degree by
the pagans, than it is amongst Christians. The pagans scarce
knew what refined self-interest was; and they did not at all
apprehend, that any objection lay against rational self-interest,
or that a purer motive to action was necessary.
Their benevolence was chiefly a love of relations, benefactors,
and their country. They fell far short of universal unlimited
benevolence, equal to self-love; and they allowed and even
recommended, taking vengeance on enemies, as an heroic, noble
action.
As to the theopathetic affections of faith, fear, gratitude, hope,
trust, resignation, and love, with the expressions of these in
prayer and praise, they knew nothing of them in general. Poly
theism, and impure notions of their deities, had quite depraved
and starved all their theopathetic affections. They were desti
tute of love, and their fear was superstition.
Lastly, The consequence of all this must be, and accordingly
was, a proportional imperfection in the moral sense. It was
deficient in most things, erroneous in many, and needlessly
scrupulous in some. It occupied the place of the Deity; for the
best amongst the pagans idolized the innate sense of honesty, and
the independent power of the mind, the sensus honesti, and the
rb i(j>' rifiiv.
I do not deny but that some heathen moralists may now and
then have expressed themselves in a manner superior to what I
have here described. But I speak of the general tenor of their
writings, and desire that they may be compared with the general
tenor of the Scriptures, of the fathers, and of the christian
divines of all ages.
Cor. II. By a like review of the seven last sections, we may
discern more clearly and fully the relative nature of the virtues
and vices, which has been already taken notice of; and thus both
learn to be more candid and charitable iu our judgments on the
THE RULE OF LIFE. 535
actions of others, and more earnest and unwearied after perfection
in ourselves.
Cor. III. Since it now appears fully, that the pleasures and
pains of the four first classes are to be subjected to those of the
three last, i. e. the pleasures of those foregone, and the pains
excepted ; whereas the pleasures of these are to be chosen, and
the pains avoided ; I will here give, in one view, some principal
motives to engage us thus to regulate our affections and actions.
First, then, The great composure and peace of mind, which
those persons enjoy, who make benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense, the rule of their lives, is a strong inducement to us to
imitate their example. As we desire to learn all other arts from
those who practise them in the greatest perfection, so ought we
the art of living. The persons in whom this peace is most
observable, were the authors of the books of the Old and New
Testaments; and these books may be distinguished from all other
books by this remarkable circumstance, that the authors appear
to have been quite free from that dissatisfaction, doubt, care, and
fear, which are so obvious in the discourses and writings of other
persons. However, the same thing appears, in a less degree, in
the discourses of all good men, even heathens; as in the discourses
of Socrates preserved by Plato and Xenophon ; and may be
observed in the conduct and behaviour of all such, by those who
are conversant with them. Eminently pious and benevolent
persons seem to be in possession of some great secret, some
Catfwlicon, or philosopher's stone. They pass through life
unhurt, as to the peace of their minds, by the evils of it; and
find abundant matter for praise and thanksgiving to God in it.
All which appears to be owing to their being guided by the true
principles of action.
Secondly, Death is certain, and necessarily attended with
many terrifying associations ; and a future state must, even upon
the slightest presumption of its reality, be a matter of the
greatest concern to all thinking persons. Now the frequent
recurrency of these fears and anxieties roust embitter all guilty
pleasures, and even the more innocent trifling amusements ;
which, though not glaringly opposite to duty, are yet beside it,
and foreign to it. And thus men live in bondage all their lives
through the fear of death ; more so than they are aware of
themselves (for men often neglect the fair examination of them
selves, so much as not to know their real state, though obvious
enough upon a due inquiry) ; and still much more so than they
own and express to others. But nothing can deliver men from
this great evil, besides entire rectitude of heart. While there is a
consciousness of any wilful failure, of any unfairness, of prevari
cation with God, or a desire and design to deceive one's self, the
terrors of religion rage with greater fury than in a state of utter
negligence, and disregard to duty. A man cannot rest, while he
is double-minded, while he strives and hopes to serve God and
536 THE RULE OF LIFE.
mammon together; but must either go forward in order to obtain
true lasting peace, or backward to infatuate and stupify himself.
And this helps us to account for the foregoing observation on the
behaviour of truly good men.
Thirdly, It appears from the very frame of our natures, that
we are not qualified for any great degrees of happiness here, nor
for an uninterrupted continuance of any degree, nor for the
frequent returns of any particular pleasure, bodily or mental.
From all which it will follow, that a general hope, mixed with
the cares, fears, and sorrows of compassion and contrition, is the
only pleasure that is attainable, lasting, or suitable, to our present
circumstances.
Fourthly, Besides the fears relating to death, and a future
state, all persons who serve the world, must have very great ones
in respect of the things of the world. A man must be crucified
to the world, before his heart can be at ease concerning its plea
sures, honours, and profits. And as our pains are, in general,
more exquisite than our pleasures ; so is fear, worldly fear, the
offspring of the first, greater in degree than worldly hope, the
offspring of the last; and if it recur often, will overbalance it;
and must make a great deduction, upon all suppositions. Now,
devotion to God, though it does lessen the hopes of this world, as
well as the fears ; yet it seems to lessen the fears in a much
quicker ratio ; however, it certainly takes off their edge, and
leaves so much hope and pleasure, as to be a foundation for the
duty of thankfulness to God.
Fifthly, An upright heart is necessary to our having a real
influencing sense and conviction of the divine amiableness and
benevolence, and consequently, to our peace and comfort. When
any dread, or slavish fear, attends the conception of the divine
nature, a man can never think himself safe ; but will always have
anxieties and misgivings. And our ideas of God must always be
thus tainted with superstition, whatever our theory be, if our
hearts be not right before him. We shall weakly and wickedly
suppose and fear, that he is such a one as we ourselves are,
whatever declarations we make, whatever demonstrations we
possess to the contrary. And as this cannot but cast a gloom
upon the whole course of nature to the wicked, so the contrary
persuasion is the principal source of joy and comfort to the good.
They do in earnest believe God to be their friend and father ;
they love him with a sincere, though imperfect love; and are
easily led, from the consciousness and inward feeling of this, to
consider him as pure and infinite love. And all these four last
observations, put together, but especially that of this paragraph,
account for the facts mentioned in the first.
THE RULE OF FAITH. 537
SECT. IX.
THE RULE OF FAITH.
Prop. LXXIV.—To inquire what Faith in Natural and Revealed
Religion, or in the particular Tenets of Christian Churches, is
necessary for the Purification and Perfection of our Natures.
Having now shewn, that benevolence, piety, and the moral
sense, are to be the guides of life, and the compass by which we
are to steer our course through the difficulties and dangers of this
mixed, imperfect state, it remains that we inquire, whether there
be any rule of faith, resulting or distinct from the foregoing rule
of life, that is necessary to our present duty or future salvation.
First, then, Since piety is part of the foregoing rule of life, it
is evident, that no one can comply with this rule, unless he be a
sincere deist at least, i. e. unless he believe the existence and
attributes of God, his providence, a future state, and the rewards
and punishments of it.
Secondly, The evidence for the christian religion seems to be
so clear and strong in all christian countries, and that with
respect to all ranks and conditions of men, that no person, who
is previously qualified by benevolence, piety, and the moral sense,
in the manner described in the seven last Sections, can refuse his
assent to it. This I take to be a plain matter of observation,
supported by the universal testimony of those persons that
attend to it ; meaning, by the christian religion, the belief of the
divine mission of Moses and the prophets, of Christ and his
apostles, or the truth of the Scriptures. Whoever therefore
conducts himself by the foregoing rule, must believe revealed
religion, as well as natural, if born in a christian country. All
unbelievers, where there is so much evidence, I had almost said
all doubters, seem to be culpable in a very high degree.
Thirdly, As faith in Christ is the result of a right disposition
of mind in Christian countries ; so is this right disposition, in its
turn, the result of believing in Christ; and they increase one
another reciprocally without limits. And though some persons
in the heathen world were conducted to great degrees of bene
volence, and uprightness of mind, and even to some degrees of
piety ; yet were these persons exceedingly rare, and the degrees
far inferior to what is ordinarily to be found in Christian coun
tries. This therefore is a strong proof of the necessity of faith
in revealed religion. All things else being alike, the person who
believes in Christ will become superior to him who does not, in
proportion to the vigour of his faith. Which is also a plain and
cogent reason, why those that are already Christians, should
labour to the utmost of their abilities in converting the barbarous
538 THE RULE OF FAITH.
nations, even though their present ignorance of revealed religion
be excusable in them. But there is far more reason to alarm
and awaken, if possible, those who disbelieve in the midst of
light and evidence, the lost sheep of the house of Israel; since
they not only want these motives and assistances to perfection,
but are guilty of great prevarication and unfairness with them
selves, and shut their eyes against the light, because their deeds
are evil. If any unbeliever think this censure too severe, let
him examine his own heart. Is he previously qualified by love
to God, and to all the world, by a sincere regard for, and
observance of, natural religion ? Is he chaste, temperate, meek,
humble, just, and charitable? Does he delight in God, in con
templating his Providence, praying to him, and praising him?
Does he believe a future state, and expect it with hope and
comfort ? Is he not so fond of the praise of men, or so fearful
of censure and ridicule, as to be ashamed to own Christ ? If the
Christian religion be true, it must be of great importance ; and
if of great importance, it is a duty of natural religion to inquire
into it. The obligation therefore to examine seriously subsists,
in some degree, as long as there is any evidence for, any doubt
of, the truth of revelation. For, if true, it must be of import
ance, whether we see that importance or not. He who deter
mines, that it is of no importance, determines at once that it is
false. But it is too evident to all impartial observers, that those
who disbelieve, or affect to disbelieve, have not made a serious,
accurate inquiry ; such a one as they would make about a worldly
concern of moment ; but content themselves, and endeavour to
perplex others, with general objections, mixed, for the most part,
with ridicule and raillery, things that are manifest hindrances in
the search after truth. However, this may be, perhaps, too
severe a censure in respect of some; nay, we ought not to
condemn any, but to consider, that to their own Master they stand
orfall.
Fourthly, A nominal, or even a real, but merely historical
and speculative faith, is quite insufficient, and falls infinitely
short of that which the foregoing rule of duty requires. And
yet it is of some probable use to be reckoned among the number
of believers, though a man be, for the present, inattentive ; be
cause such a one lies more in the way of conviction and influ
ence ; and is free from that great objection and difficulty to •
human nature, a reluctance to change even a nominal opinion.
As to the person, who has a real, historical, speculative faith,
*. e. who sees that the Old and New Testaments have the same
and in many respects greater evidences for their truth and
genuineness, than other books universally allowed, who is ready
to acknowledge this, and to give reasons for it of the same kind
with those that are admitted in similar cases, he possesses one of
the principal requisites for generating the true, practical, internal
faith, that overcomes the world; and if he be not withheld by
THE RULE OF FAITH. 539
pride and self-conceit, so as to rest in this historical faith, as
sufficient of itself, will make much quicker advances, cceteris
paribus, towards the true living faith, than a person destitute
of the historical one. For the true living faith is that vivid sense
and perception of God, our Saviour, a future state, and the other
related ideas, that make them appear at once as realities, and
become powerful and instantaneous motives to action. But it is
very evident, that an historical faith must, by impressing and
uniting these ideas during the time that they are considered, and
reflected upon, produce the effects, the reality, above described,
in the same manner as the interested love of God does at last
generate the pure disinterested love. And the calamities and
sorrows of human life will be much more likely to strike him
who is possessed of an historical faith, than a person ignorant
of the subject.
It must, however, be acknowledged, that the real practical
faith is by no means in exact proportion to the historical. Per
sons of good dispositions, of humble minds, who pray without
ceasing, who have been much afflicted, &c. have impressions of
the religious kind excited in them with more vigour and facility
than others. Yet still no man can have the practical faith
without some degree of the historical ; and those who have little
of the historical are liable to be shaken, to be turned about by
every wind of doctrine, and to be carried into extravagances by
the zeal without knowledge. What God hath joined together
let no man put asunder. It is the duty of every man, whether
he have the practical faith or not, to inquire, to read the Scrip
tures, and to meditate thereon; the necessary consequence of
which is an increase of the historical faith. It is also the duty
of every Christian to give a reason for his faith, to preach the
gospel (for true Christians are a nation of priests in this sense ;)
which cannot be done without some knowledge of the historical
evidences. Admitting therefore, that mere internal faith (if such
a thing be possible) did suffice to all other purposes, it will,
however, be defective in this one most necessary duty of the
Christian life. Though a mere good example will do much good,
yet the same good example, accompanied with knowledge and
a rational faith, will do more.
Fifthly, It seems entirely useless to all good purposes, to the
• promotion of piety and benevolence, in the present state of
things, to form any creeds, articles, or systems of faith, and to
require an assent to these in words or writing. Men are to be
influenced, even in respect of the principal doctrines of God's
providence, a future state, and the truth of the Scriptures, by
rational methods only, not by compulsion. This seems acknow
ledged on all hands. Why then should harsher methods be used
in things of confessedly less importance ? It is true, that ma
gistrates have a power from God to inflict punishment upon such
as disobey, and to confine the natural liberty of acting within
540 THE RULE OF FAITH.
certain bounds, for the common good of their subjects. But
all this is of a nature very foreign to the pretences for confining
opinions by discouragements and punishments.
Those who believe neither natural nor revealed religion prac
tically, will be held by no restraints ; they will appear to consent
to any thing, just as their interest leads them. And this is the
case of a great part of the subscribers in all Christian communi
ties. They have a mere nominal faith only, at the time of sub
scribing, not even a speculative or historical one : or if they have
any degree of seriousness, and good impressions, they must do
proportional violence to these by performing a religious act out
of a mere interested view.
If the person be an earnest believer of natural religion, but an
unbeliever in respect of revealed, (to suppose this possible for
argument's sake,) he will not attempt any office in the christian
ministry. However, he ought not to be deprived of civil privi
leges, whilst so many wicked, nominal Christians are suffered to
enjoy them.
Suppose the person required to subscribe to be a speculative
historical believer, why should his future inquiries be confined?
How can he inquire honestly if they be? How can a person
be properly qualified to study the word of God, and to search
out its meaning, who finds himself previously confined to
interpret it in a particular manner? If the subject matter
of the article be of great importance to be understood and
believed, one may presume, that it is plain, and needs no article ;
if of small importance, why should it be made a test, or insisted
upon ? If it be a difficult, abstruse point, no one upon earth
has authority to make an article concerning it. We are all bre
thren ; there is no father, no master, amongst us ; we are helpers
of, not lords over, each other's faith. If we judge from other
branches of learning, as natural philosophy, or physic, we shall
there find, that the pure evidence of the things themselves is
sufficient to overcome all opposition, after a due time. The
doctrines of gravitation, of the different refrangibility of the rays
of light, of the circulation of the blood, &c. can never be believed
to any useful practical purpose, till they be examined and under
stood ; and those who now believe them, affirm that this is all
that is necessary for their universal reception. If they should
be mistaken in this, free examination would be so much the
more requisite.
The Apostles' Creed is so plain and clear, except in the three
articles concerning the descent of Christ into hell, the holy
catholic church, and the communion of saints, that no one who
believes the truth of the Scriptures can hesitate about it; not
even how to interpret the three fore-mentioned articles, in a
sense agreeable to the Scriptures. It is quite useless, therefore,
to require an assent even to these articles. As to the meta
physical subtleties, which appear in the subsequent creeds, they
THE RULE OF FAITH. 541
can at best be only human interpretations of scripture words;
and, therefore, can have no authority. Words refer to words,
and to grammatical and logical analogies, in an endless manner,
in these things ; and all the real foundation which we have is in
the words of Scripture, and of the most ancient writers, considered
as helps, not authorities. It is sufficient, therefore, that a man
take the Scriptures for his guide, and apply himself to them
with an honest heart, and humble and earnest prayer; which
things have no connexion with forms and subscriptions.
Nay, it seems needless, or ensnaring, to subscribe even to the
Scriptures themselves. If to any particular canon, copy, &c.
ensnaring, because of the many real doubts in these things. If
not, it is quite superfluous from the latitude allowed. Yet still
it appears to me incontestable, that no careful impartial inquirer
can doubt of the great truths of the Scriptures, such as the
miraculous birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension of
Christ, &c. or of the practical consequences thence arising; and
surely it cannot be necessarily requisite, that a man should be
lieve more than these.
For, lastly, Let us suppose the person required to assent or
subscribe, to be a real earnest believer. It can scarce be sup
posed, that such a person should assent to any set of articles, so
as honestly to affirm, that he would choose to express his own
sense of the scripture language in these words. To strain either
the Scriptures, or the articles, must be a very ungrateful task to
an ingenuous man; and, perhaps, there may be so wide a dif
ference in some instances in his opinion, that no straining can
bring them together. And thus some of the most earnest be
lievers are excluded from the christian ministry, and from certain
common privileges of society, by a method which suffers nominal
wicked Christians to pass without difficulty.
If it be objected, that unless preachers subscribe, they may
teach different doctrines; I answer, that theydo this, though they do
subscribe ; and that in the most important practical points. If the
Scriptures cannot yet produce a true unity of opinion on account
of our present ignorance, and the weakness and wickedness of
our natures, how should articles do this? Men can put as
different senses upon articles, as upon texts, and so dispute
without end. Which evidently appears to have been the case in
the primitive church. Every decision, as soon as settled, be
came the source of a new division between persons, who yet still
agreed to the foregoing decision in words ; till at last the whole
efficacy and spirit of Christianity was lost in mere verbal dis
putes. But the best answer is, that preachers ought entirely to
confine themselves to practical subjects, the descriptions of the
virtues and vices, with the motives for and against each, the
directions to attain the virtues, and avoid the vices ; and this in
all the various real circumstances of human life. Learned in
quiries have their use undoubtedly; but they are much better
542 THE RULE OF FAITH.
communicated to the learned world by the press, than to a mixed
assembly by the pulpit. It is a kind of sacrilege to rob God's
flock of the nourishment due to them from public preachings,
and, in its stead, to run out upon questions that minister no
profit to the hearers, at least far the greatest part.
As to the press, since all other men have the liberty of con
veying their thoughts to the public that way, it is surely un
fitting that the ministers of the gospel should be deprived of it.
And, indeed, to lay any restraints, iooks like distrusting the
cause. There is undoubtedly a very bad use made of the press,
and woe to those by wfiom offences come to the little ones that
believe in Christ ! But it is to be hoped and presumed, that the
power of the wicked to do harm is not equal to the power of the
good to do good, in this or any other such neutral method of
communicating infection good and bad to the public. This
would be to prefer barbarity and ignorance to the instruction
and civilization of mankind. Learning, arts, and improvements
of all kinds, are subservient both to good and bad purposes; and
yet still the balance is probably on the side of good upon the
whole, since God is all powerful, all wise, and all good. These
attributes must ever turn the scale to their own side, finitely in
every finite portion of time, infinitely in infinite time. We need
not fear, therefore, but that true knowledge will at last be in
creased and prevail, that the wise and good will understand, the
wicked be silenced and converted, and the church of Christ fill
the whole earth. It is a great insult offered to the truths of
religion, to suppose that they want the same kind of assistance
as impostures, human projects, or worldly designs. Let every
man be allowed to think, speak, and write, freely ; and then the
errors will combat one another, and leave truth unhurt.
Sixthly, Though creeds, articles, &c. seem to have no use now,
but even to be prejudicial to the cause of truth in themselves;
yet it may be necessary to submit to some forms of this kind in
certain cases : at least, it no ways becomes a Christian to declaim
against them in violent terms, or oppose them with bitterness,
but merely, in a plain dispassionate way, to represent the truth
of the case, so as by degrees to draw men's zeal from these lesser
matters, and transfer it upon greater. Let not him that eateth,
despise him that eateth not ; and let not him which eateth not,
judge him that eateth. There may be good relative reasons in
both cases. And it may be, and probably is the truth, that in
the early ages of the church, whilst Christians were Judaizers,
entangled in externals, gross in their conceptions, &c. these
forms were necessary, cceteris manentibus. But now they grow old,
and seem ready to die away, and to give place to the worship of
God in spirit and in truth; in which there is no Papist, Protestant,
Lutheran, Calvinist, Trinitarian, Unitarian, Mystic, Methodist,
&c. but all these distinctions are carried away like the chaff of
the summer threshing-floors. We are all Christians ; we received
THE RULE OF FAITH.
this denomination in apostolic times, and ought to seek no other.
Only let us take care to depart from iniquity, to have the true
seal of God in our foreheads, not the mark of the beast. The
real conversion of the heart from the idolatrous worship of
pleasure, honour, and profit, of sensation, imagination, ambition,
and self-interest, to serve the living God, is the only thing of
importance ; circumcision and uncircumcision are equally nothing.
Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called.
Only, where a plain act of insincerity is required, this approaches
to the case of eating in the idol's temple, and gives great offence
to others.
Seventhly, If we examine the doctrines which are chiefly con
tested among Christians by the opposite parties, it will appear,
that the disputes are, in great measure, verbal, and proceed from
men's not knowing the true nature and use of words. Thus, if
we consider the doctrine of infallibility, the nature of words shews
at once, that this could be of no use, since the decisions of the
infallible judge must be expressed in words, and consequently
be liable to be misunderstood by some or other of the readers,
for the same reasons as the Scriptures are.—To say that Christ's
body and blood are in the bread and wine, so as that the sensible
qualities of one become the sensible qualities of the other, would
be to appeal to the senses for assent, where they instantly reject
the proposition. To say that Christ's mystical or glorified body
is present in some way or other, is what no one can deny, because
nothing is really affirmed. The words seem to coalesce into a
verbal truth ; but when we attempt to realize the proposition, it
vanishes. The Scripture expressions concerning the mystical
body of Christ, and his union with the church, contain within
them some most important and wonderful truths undoubtedly,
but they are yet sealed up from us.—In the disputes concerning
the Trinity, and incarnation of Christ, if the words persons, sub
stance, nature, &c. be used as in other cases, or any way defined,
the most express contradictions follow : yet the language of the
Scriptures is most difficult, sublime, and mysterious, in respect
of the person of Christ ; so that one cannot fall short of paying
all that honour to Christ, which the most orthodox believe to be
required.—As to the doctrine of the satisfaction of Christ, it
appears that he has done all for us that one being can do for
another ; and that it would be a most unjustifiable and narrow
way of expressing ourselves, to confine the benefits received from
Christ to that of mere example. But the first and most literal
sense of the words sacrifice, redemption, &c. when realized, is
evidently impossible ; and we do not seem to be able to give any
better general sense to these words, than by saying, that they
signify that the sufferings of one being are, by the order of God,
made the means of happiness to another. To adopt the ideas of
debt, wrath of God, &c. in a strict sense, is anthropomorphitism.
—The introduction of new, unscriptural, technical terms, seems
THE RULE OF FAITH.
scarce justifiable, unless as far as one christian brother may
thereby endeavour to make the harmony and analogy of the
Scripture language to itself, and to the course of nature, more
evident to another. But this is all private interpretation. And
it often happens in these cases, that an hypothesis is taken up
hastily, in order to reconcile the Scripture to itself, like those
philosophical ones, which are not drawn from a number of con
curring facts, but merely accommodated to a few particular
appearances.
CHAP. IV.
THE EXPECTATIONS OF MANKIND, HERE AND HEREAFTER, IN
CONSEQUENCE OF THEIR OBSERVANCE OR VIOLATION OF THE
RULE OF LIFE.
SECT. I.
THE EXPECTATIONS OF INDIVIDUALS IN THE PRESENT LIFE.
Prop. LXXVII.—It is probable, that most or all Men receive
more Happiness than Misery in their Passage through the
present Life.
Some evidences for this proposition have been given above,
where it was alleged as one of the proofs of the goodness of God.
Here we may consider it, both as deducible from those evidences,
and from the goodness of God, previously established upon inde
pendent principles.
For if we suppose God to be both infinitely benevolent, and the
sole cause of all things ; if, farther, the relative appellations of
governor, friend, and father, may with propriety be made the
foundation of our inquiries into his dispositions in general (all
which I have endeavoured to prove above) ; we can scarce sup
pose, but that the remarkable period of our existence, which
commences at our birth, and ends with the death of .the body,
which we then brought into the world with us, will, upon the
whole, afford us more pleasure than pain. This is, at least, our
first and most natural presumption, in the view of things here
considered. However it must always be remembered, that we
are not proper judges of such high speculations ; and that an
over-balance of misery in this life, or any other, is perfectly con
sistent with the infinite goodness of God, even according to our
ways of reasoning, upon supposition, that all his creatures become
happy upon the whole at last, finitely or infinitely.
I choose therefore to rest this proposition chiefly upon certain
intimations, and indirect evidences thereof, which are scattered
up and down in the Scriptures. Such are, the blessing of God
conferred upon all his creatures at their creation, his covenant
5<M> THE EXPECTATIONS OF
with them all at the flood, the precepts to all to praise him, the
mention of his being loving to every man, of remembering mercy
in judgment, not being extreme to mark what is done amiss, &c.
These are no direct proofs of the proposition here advanced ; but
they leave such impressions of love and mercy upon the mind,
and seem intended to put us into such a way of thinking and
reasoning, as lead to it. They afford therefore some presumption
in its favour, since nothing contrary thereto is to be found any
where either in the word or works of God.
The murmurings and bitter outcries of men in a state of suf
fering are no more an evidence against this proposition, than the
extravagant mirth, and chimerical hopes, of unexperienced per
sons, during health and prosperity, are for it. Neither of these
take in the whole of the case.
•
Prop. LXXVIII. — The Balance cannot be much in Favour
even of the most Happy, during the present Life.
For, first, This is agreeable to the general experience of
mankind. It is obvious, that life is chequered with good and
evil in such degrees and varieties, as that the first cannot prevail
much. Agreeably to this, the experienced and dispassionate, in
reviewing their past life, will at least affirm that the happiness
has not greatly exceeded the misery. And indeed the difficulty
of proving the foregoing proposition is a very sufficient evidence
for this.
Secondly, The disorderly state of the external world, and the
imperfection of our bodies, with their tendency to corruption, do
not permit that happiness should much exceed misery in the
present life ; and may be considered as the efficient instrumental
cause of this. Bodily pain must in many cases be impressed
upon us by external objects; both this, and bodily pleasure, lay
the foundation for intellectual pains, and for irregular passions,
which lead back again to pain, bodily and mental ; our bodies
must return to dust, and every manifest approach thereto must
be attended with suffering: and the unknown internal structure
of the brain, the great instrument of sense and thought, is such,
as subjects us, from innumerable secret unavoidable causes, to
pass into the limits of pain. All which is only saying in other
words, that we are fallen creatures.
Thirdly, In our present circumstances, all other things remaining
as they are, it is requisite for us not to have any great over-balance
of happiness in this life ; and this may be considered as the final
cause. For we may hope, by this perpetual mixture of misery
with our happiness, to be the sooner and the more perfectly freed
from that self-love, gross or refined, which every kind and degree
of happiness, even the most spiritual, contributes to generate in
us; and to make the greater progress in learning the virtue of
benevolence, compassion, humility, fear of God, submission to
INDIVIDUALS IN THE PRESENT LIFE. 547
his will, earnest application to him, faith, hope, love towards
him.
Fourthly, The whole tenor of the Scripture shews, both in a
direct and indirect way, that we ought not, cannot expect any
great or lasting happiness in this life.
We ought therefore, whenever false flattering hopes, with rela
tion to our future condition in this life, rise up to view in our
imaginations, and tempt us, instantly to reject them ; and, in the
language of the Scriptures, to rejoice as though we rejoiced not ;
to remember that we are strangers and pilgrims here, that we
only dwell in tabernacles, have no continuing city, but expect one
to come, the New Jerusalem, of which we are denizens, where our
treasure and hearts ought to be. The best and most religious
persons ought to expect, and even to desire, this daily bread of
sorrow and affliction, this blessedness of those that mourn, and to
match and pray against the temptations of prosperity, lest the
day of death should come upon them unawares, as a thief in the
night, while they are eating and drinking, marrying and giving in
marriage.
Cor. We might shew, by a like method of reasoning, that if
the misery of this life should, in certain cases, outweigh the hap
piness, it cannot, however, do this in any great degree. There
must, from the nature of our frame and circumstances here, be
many intervals of ease, cheerfulness, and even positive pleasure.
Dejection and despondency are therefore as unsuitable to our
present situation, as a vain confidence, and foolish hope, of unin
terrupted happiness. We may learn also hence not to be terri
fied at any self-denials or sufferings for the sake of religion,
exclusively of those arguments which shew in a direct way that
religion promotes our present happiness, as well as our future.
Our very natures prevent the long continuance of exquisite -
misery. Misery by continuance declines, and even passes into
happiness ; and there must be, in every state of long continuance,
the frequent intervention of grateful sensations and ideas.
Prop. LXXIX.— Virtue has always the fairest Prospect, even
in this Life ; and Vice is always exposed to the greatest
Hazards,
This has been the business of the last chapter to shew. But
it is a truth which is sufficiently evident from common observa
tion. Particular acts of virtue and vice often fail of their due
reward and punishment, if we take in no more than a small
period of time after the act is performed. But then, if we take
in the indefinite extent of this life, and estimate the natural
expectations, it can scarce be doubted, but that every act of
virtue is our greatest wisdom, even in respect of this world, every
act of vice our greatest folly. Now this general tendency of
virtue and vice respectively may be considered as the principal
N N 2
548 THE EXPECTATIONS OF
evidence, which the light of nature, not subtilized or refined by
deep speculations, affords for the moral character of the Deity.
The rewards which the course of nature bestows upon virtue in
general, and the fairness of the prospect which it affords to the
virtuous, shew that the virtuous are acceptable to the Deity ;
and we may conclude, for like reasons, that vice is odious in his
sight.
Prop. LXXX.—It does not seem at all probable, that Happi
ness is exactly proportioned to Virtue in the present Life.
For, first, Those who suffer martyrdom for the sake of reli
gion cannot be said to receive any reward in this life for this their
last and greatest act of fidelity.
Secondly, Many good men are exercised with severe trials,
purified thereby, and removed into another state in the course of
this purification, or soon after it. Diseases which end in death,
are a principal means of such purifications.
Thirdly, There are frequent instances of persons free indeed
from gross vices, but void of great virtues, who from a favourable
conjuncture of circumstances in this world, such as we may
suppose attended the rich man in the parable, fare sumptuously
every day, and live in a state of comparative ease and pleasure.
Fourthly, The same thing seems to hold in certain rare
instances, even of very vicious persons: and one might almost
conjecture, that Providence exposes some instances of this kind
to view in a notorious manner, that the apparent inequality of
its dispensations here, in a few cases, and the argument for a
future state thence deducible, may make the greater impression
upon us.
The reader may observe, that this proposition is not contrary to
the foregoing ; and that the foregoing must be established pre
viously, before we can draw an argument for a future state from
this, and the moral character of the Deity, put together.
It is to be observed also of the reasoning made use of under
all the four propositions of this Section, that it is rather probable,
and conclusive, in a general way only, than demonstrative and
precise. However, the probability and precision are as great as
is necessary in practical matters. The practical inferences would
remain the same, though these were less.
BODIES POLITIC.
SECT. II.
THE EXPECTATIONS OF BODIES POLITIC, THE JEWS IN PAR
TICULAR, AND THE WORLD IN GENERAL, DURING THE
PRESENT STATE OF THE EARTH.
Prop. LXXXI.—It is probable, that all the present Civil
. Governments will be overturned.
This may appear from the scripture prophecies, both in a
direct way, *. e. from express passages ; such as those concerning
the destruction of the image, and four beasts, in Daniel; of
Christ's breaking all nations with a rod of iron, and dashing them
in pieces like a potters vessel, &c. and from the supremacy and
universal extent of the fifth monarchy, or kingdom of the saints,
which is to be set up.
We may conclude the same thing also from the final restoration
of the Jews, and the great glory and dominion promised to them,
of which I shall speak below.
And it adds some light and evidence to this, that all the known
governments of the world have the evident principles of corruption
in themselves. They are composed -of jarring elements, and
subsist only by the alternate prevalence of these over each other.
The splendour, luxury, self-interest, martial glory, &c. which pass
for essentials in christian governments, are totally opposite to the
meek, humble, self-denying spirit of Christianity; and whichsoever
of these finally prevails over the other, the present form of the
government must be dissolved. Did true Christianity prevail
throughout any kingdom entirely, the riches, strength, glory, &c.
of that kingdom would no longer be an object of attention to the
governors or governed ; they would become a nation of priests
and apostles, and totally disregard the things of this world. But
this is not to be expected : I only mention it to set before the
reader the natural consequence of it. If, on the contrary,
worldly wisdom and infidelity prevail over Christianity, which
seems to be the prediction of the Scriptures, this worldly wisdom
will be found utter foolishness at last, even in respect of this
world ; the governments which have thus lost their cement, the
sense of duty, and the hopes and fears of a future life, will fall
into anarchy and confusion, and be entirely dissolved. And all
this may be applied, with a little change, to the Mahometan and
heathen governments. When Christianity comes to be propagated
in the countries where these subsist, it will make so great a
change in the face of affairs, as must shake the civil powers,
which are here both externally and internally opposite to it; and
the increase of wickedness, which is the natural and necessary
consequence of their opposition, will farther accelerate their ruin.
The dissolution of ancient empires and republics may also
550 THE EXPECTATIONS OF BODIES POLITIC
prepare us for the expectation of a dissolution of the present
governments. But we must not carry the parallel too far here,
and suppose that as new governments have arisen out of the old
ones, resembling them in great measure, subsisting for a certain
time, and then giving place to other new ones, so it will be with
the present governments. The prophecies do not admit of this;
and it may be easily seen, that the situation of things in the great
world is very different from what it has ever been before. Chris
tianity must now either be proved true, to the entire conviction
of unbelievers ; or, if it be an imposture, it will soon be detected.
And whichsoever of these turns up, must make the greatest
change in the face of affairs. I ought rather to have said, that
the final prevalence and establishment of Christianity, which,
being true, cannot but finally prevail, and be established, will do
this. But it may perhaps be of some use just to put false
suppositions.
How near the dissolution of the present governments, gene
rally or particularly, may be, would be great rashness to affirm.
Christ will come in this sense also as a thief in the night. Our
duty is therefore to watch, and to pray ; to be faithful stewards ;
to give meat and all other requisites, in due season, to those
under our care ; and to endeavour, by these and all other lawful
means, to preserve the government, under whose protection we
live, from dissolution, seeking the peace of it, and submitting to
every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. No prayers, no
endeavours of this kind, can fail of having some good effect,
public or private, for the preservation of ourselves or others.
The great dispensations of Providence are conducted by means
that are either secret, or, if they appear, that are judged feeble
and inefficacious. No man can tell, however private his station
may be, but his fervent prayer may avail to the salvation of much
people. But it is more peculiarly the duty of magistrates thus
to watch over their subjects, to pray for them, and to set about
the reformation of all matters civil and ecclesiastical, to the
utmost of their power. Good governors may promote the wel
fare and continuance of a state, and wicked ones must accelerate
its ruin. The sacred history affords us instances of both kinds,
and they are recorded there for the admonition of kings and
princes in all future times.
It may not be amiss here to note a few instances of the
analogy between the body natural, with the happiness of the
individual to which it belongs, and the body politic, composed of
many individuals, with its happiness, or its flourishing state in
respect of arts, power, riches, &c. Thus all bodies politic seem,
like the body natural, to tend to destruction and dissolution, as is
here affirmed, through vices public and private ; and to be
respited for certain intervals, by partial, imperfect reformations.
There is no complete or contiuued series of public happiness on
one hand, no utter misery on the other; for the dissolution of
DURING THE PRESENT STATE OF THE EARTH. 551
the body politic is to be considered as its death. It seems as
romantic therefore for any one to project the scheme of a perfect
government in this imperfect state, as to be in pursuit of an
universal remedy, a remedy which should cure all distempers,
and prolong human life beyond limit. And yet as temperance,
labour, and medicines, in some cases, are of great use in pre
serving and restoring health, and prolonging life ; so industry,
justice, and all other virtues, public and private, have an analogous
effect in respect of the body politic. As all the evils, which
individuals suffer through the infirmity of the mortal body, and the
disorders of the external world, may, in general, contribute to
increase their happiness even in this life, and also are of great
use to others ; and as, upon the supposition of a future state,
death itself appears to have the same beneficial tendency in a
more eminent degree than any other event in ,life, now con
sidered as indefinitely prolonged ; so the distresses of each body
politic are of great use to this body itself, and also of great use
to all neighbouring states; and the dissolution of governments
has much promoted the knowledge of true religion, and of useful
arts and sciences, all which seem, in due time and manner, in
tended to be entirely subservient to true religion at last. And
this affords great comfort to benevolent and religious persons,
when they consider the histories of former times, or contemplate
the probable consequences of things in future generations.
Prop. LXXXII.—It is probable, that the present Forms of
Church Government will be dissolved.
This proposition follows from the foregoing. The civil and
ecclesiastical powers are so interwoven and cemented together, in
all the countries of Christendom, that if the first fall, the last
must fall also.
But there are many prophecies, which declare the fall of the
ecclesiastical powers of the christian world. And though each
church seems to flatter itself with the hopes of being exempted ;
yet it is very plain, that the prophetical characters belong to all.
They have all left the true, pure, simple religion ; and teach for
doctrines the commandments of men. They are all merchants
of the earth, and have set up a kingdom of this world, abounding
in riches, temporal power, and external pomp. They have all a
dogmatizing spirit, and persecute such as do not receive their
own mark, and worship the image which they have set up. They
all neglect Christ's command of preaching the gospel to all nations,
and even that of going to the lost sheep of the house of Israel ;
there being innumerable multitudes in all christian countries,
who have never been taught to read, and who are, in other
respects also, destitute of the means of saving knowledge. It is
very true, that the church of Rome is Babylon the Great, and
the mother of harlots, and of the abominations of the earth. But
552 THE EXPECTATIONS OF BODIES POLITIC
all the rest have copied her example, more or less. They have
all received money, like Gehazi ; and therefore the leprosy of
Naaman will cleave to them, and to their seed for ever. And
this impurity may be considered not only as justifying the appli
cation of the prophecies to all the christian churches, but as a
natural cause for their downfall. The corrupt governors of the
several churches will ever oppose the true gospel, and in so
doing will bring ruin upon themselves.
The destruction of the temple at Jerusalem, and of the hie
rarchy of the Jews, may likewise be considered as a type and
presage of the destruction of that Judaical form of rites, cere
monies, and human ordinances, which takes place, more Or less,
in all christian countries.
We ought, however, to remark here,
First, That though the church of Christ has been corrupted
thus in all ages and nations, yet there have been, and will be, in
all, many who receive the seal of God, and worship him in spirit
and in truth. And of these as many have filled high stations, as
low ones. Such persons, though they have concurred in the
support of what is contrary to the pure religion, have, however,
done it innocently, with respect to themselves, being led thereto
by invincible prejudices.
Secondly, Nevertheless, when it so happens, that persons in
high stations in the church have their eyes enlightened, and see
the corruptions and deficiencies of it, they must incur the pro
phetical censures in the highest degree, if they still concur, nay,
if they do not endeavour to reform and purge out these defile
ments. And though they cannot, according to this proposition,
expect entire success ; yet they may be blessed with such a degree
as will abundantly compensate their utmost endeavours, and rank
them with the prophets and apostles.
Thirdly, As this corruption and degeneracy of the christian
church has proceeded from the fallen state of mankind, and par
ticularly of those nations to whom the gospel was first preached,
and amongst whom it has since been received ; so it has, all other
things being supposed to remain the same, suited our circum
stances in the best manner possible, and will continue to do so,
as long as it subsists. God brings good out of evil, draws men
to himself in such manner as their natures will admit of, by
external pomp and power, by things not good in themselves, and
by some that are profane and unholy. He makes use of some of
their corruptions, as means of purging away the rest. The im
purity of mankind is too gross to unite at once with the strict
purity of the gospel. The Roman empire first, and the Goths
and Vandals afterwards, required, as one may say, some super
stitions and idolatries to be mixed with the christian religion ;
else they could not have been converted at all.
Fourthly, It follows from these considerations, that good men
ought to submit to the ecclesiastical powers that be, for conscience
DURING THE PRESENT STATE OF THE EARTH. 553
sake, as well as to the civil ones. They are both from God, as
far as respects inferiors. Christ and his apostles observed the
law, and walked orderly, though they declared the destruction of
the temple, and the change of the customs established by Moses.
Both the Babylonians, who destroyed Jerusalem the first time,
and the Romans, who did it the second, were afterwards destroyed
themselves in the most exemplary manner. And it is probable,
that those who shall hereafter procure the downfall of the forms
of church government, will not do this from pure love, and
christian charity, but from the most corrupt motives, and by
consequence bring upon themselves, in the end, the severest
chastisements. It is therefore the duty of all good Christians to
obey both the civil and ecclesiastical powers under which they
were born, i. e. provided disobedience to God be not enjoined,
which is seldom the case ; to promote subjection and obedience
in others ; gently to reform and rectify, and to pray for the peace
and prosperity of their own Jerusalem.
Prop. LXXXIII.—It is probable that the Jews will be restored
to Palestine.
This appears from the prophecies which relate to the restora
tion of the Jews and Israelites to their own land. For,
First, These have never yet been fulfilled in any sense agreeable
to the greatness and gloriousness of them. The peace, power,
and abundance of blessings, temporal and spiritual, promised to
the Jews upon their return from captivity, were not bestowed
upon them in the interval between the reign of Cyrus, and the
destruction of Jerusalem, by Titus ; and ever since this destruction
they have remained in a desolate state.
Secondly, The promises of restoration relate to the ten tribes,
as well as to the two of Judah and Benjamin. But the ten
tribes, or Israelites, which were captivated by Salmaneser, have
never been restored at all. There remains therefore a restoration
yet future for them.
Our ignorance of the place where they now lie hid, or fears
that they are so mixed with other nations, as not to be distin
guished and separated, ought not to be admitted as objections
here. Like objections might be made to the resurrection of the
body ; and the objections both to the one, and the other, are
probably intended to be obviated by Ezekiel's prophecy concern
ing the dry bones. It was one of the great sins of the Jews to
call God's promises in question, on account of apparent difficulties
and impossibilities ; and the Sadducees, in particular, erred con
cerning the resurrection, because they knew not the Scriptures,
nor the power of God. However, it is our duty to inquire,
whether the ten tribes may not remain in the countries where
they were first settled by Salmaneser, or in some others.
551 THE EXPECTATIONS OF BODIES POLITIC
Thirdly, A double return seems to be predicted in several
prophecies.
Fourthly, The prophets who lived since the return from Babylon,
bave predicted a return in similar terms with those who went
before. It follows "therefore, that the predictions of both must
relate to some restoration yet future.
Fifthly, The restoration of the Jews to their own land seems
to be predicted in the New Testament.
To these arguments, drawn from prophecy, we may add some
concurring evidences, which the present circumstances of the
Jews suggest.
First, then, The Jews are yet a distinct people from all the
nations amongst which they reside. They seem therefore reserved
by Providence for some such signal favour, after they have suffered
the due chastisement.
Secondly, They are to be found in all the countries of the
known world. And this agrees with many remarkable passages
of the Scriptures, which treat both of their dispersion, and of
their return.
Thirdly, They have no inheritance of land in any country.
Their possessions are chiefly money and jewels. They may
therefore transfer themselves with the greater facility to Palestine.
Fourthly, They are treated with contempt and harshness, and
sometimes with great cruelty, by the nations amongst whom they
sojourn. They must therefore be the more ready to return to
their own land.
Fifthly, They carry on a correspondence with each other
throughout the whole world ; and consequently must both know
when circumstances begin to favour their return, and be able to
concert measures with one another concerning it.
Sixthly, A great part of them speak and write the Rabbinical
Hebrew, as well as the language of the country where they
reside. They are therefore, as far as relates to themselves,
actually possessed of an universal language and character ; which
is a circumstance that may facilitate their return, beyond what
can well be imagined.
Seventhly, The Jews themselves still retain a hope and ex
pectation, that God will once more restore them to their own land.
Cor. L May not the two captivities of the Jews, and their
two restorations, be types of the first and second death, and of
the first and second resurrections ?
Cor. II. Does it not appear agreeable to the whole analogy
both of the word and works of God, that the Jews are types both
of each individual in particular, on one hand, and of the whole
world in general, on the other ? May we not therefore hope,
that, at least after the second death, there will be a resurrection
to life eternal to every man, and to the whole creation, which
groans, and travails in pain together, waiting for the adoption,
and glorious liberty, of the children of God ?
DURING THE PRESENT STATE OF THE EARTH. 555
Cor. III. As the downfall of the Jewish state under Titus
was the occasion of the publication of the gospel to us Gentiles,
so our downfall may contribute to the restoration of the Jews,
and both together bring on the final publication and prevalence
of the true religion ; of which I shall treat in the next proposi
tion. Thus the type, and the thing typified, will coincide ; the
first fruits, and the lump, be made holy together.
Prop. LXXXIV.—The Christian Religion will be preached to,
and received by, all Nations.
This appears from the express declarations of Christ, and from
many of his parables, also from the declarations and predictions
of the apostles, and particularly from the Revelation. There are
likewise numberless prophecies in the Old Testament, which
admit of no other sense, when interpreted by the events which
have since happened, the coming of Christ, and the propagation
of his religion.
The truth of the Christian religion is an earnest and presage
of the same thing, to all who receive it. For every truth of
great importance must be discussed and prevail at last. The
persons who believe can see no reasons for their own belief, but
what must extend to all mankind by degrees, as the diffusion of
knowledge to all ranks and orders of men, to all nations, kindred,
tongues, and people, cannot now be stopped, but proceeds ever
with an accelerated velocity. And, agreeably to this, it appears
that the number of those who are able to give a reason for their
faith increases every day.
But it may not be amiss to set before the reader in one view
some probable presumptions for the universal publication and
prevalence of the Christian religion, even in the way of natural
causes.
First, then, The great increase of knowledge, literary and
philosophical, which has been made in this and the two last cen
turies, and continues to be made, must contribute to promote
every great truth, and particularly those of revealed religion, as
just now mentioned. The coincidence of the three remarkable
events, of the Reformation, the invention of printing, and the
restoration of letters, with each other, in time, deserves particular
notice here.
Secondly, The commerce between the several nations of the
world is enlarged perpetually more and more. And thus the
children of this world are opening new ways of communication
for future apostles to spread the glad tidings of salvation to the
uttermost parts of the earth.
Thirdly, The apostasy of nominal Christians, and objections
of infidels, which are so remarkable in these days, not only give
occasion to search out and publish new evidences for the truth
of revealed religion, but also oblige those who receive it, to purify
556 THE EXPECTATIONS OF BODIES POLITIC
it from errors and superstitions ; by which means its progress
amongst the yet heathen nations will be much forwarded. Were
we to propagate religion, as it is now held by the several
churches, each person would propagate his own orthodoxy, lay
needless impediments and stumbling-blocks before his hearers,
and occasion endless feuds and dissensions amongst the new con
verts. And it seems as if God did not intend, that the general
preaching of the gospel should be begun, till religion be dis
charged of its incumbrances and superstitions.
Fourthly, The various sects, which have arisen amongst
Christians in late times, contribute both to purify religion, and
also to set all the great truths of it in a full light, and to shew
their practical importance.
Fifthly, The downfall of the civil and ecclesiastical powers,
mentioned in the 81st and 82d propositions, must both be
attended with such public calamities, as will make men serious,
and also drive them from the countries of Christendom into the
remote parts of the world, particularly into the East and West
Indies ; whither consequently they will carry their religion now
purified from errors and superstitions.
Sixthly, The restoration of the Jews, mentioned in the last
proposition, may be expected to have the greatest effect in
alarming mankind, and opening their eyes. This will be such
an accomplishment of the prophecies, as will vindicate them from
all cavils. Besides which, the careful survey of Palestine, and
the neighbouring countries, the study of the Eastern languages,
of the histories of the present and ancient inhabitants, &c. (which
must follow this event) when compared together, will cast the
greatest light upon the Scriptures, and at once prove their
genuineness, their truth, and their divine authority.
Seventhly, Mankind seem to have it in their power to obtain
Such qualifications in a natural way, as, by being conferred upon
the apostles in a supernatural one, were a principal means of
their success in the first propagation of the gospel.
Thus, as the apostles had the power of healing miraculously,
future missionaries may in a short time accomplish themselves
with the knowledge of all the chief practical rules of the art of
medicine. This art is wonderfully simplified of late years, has
received great additions, and is improving every day, both in
simplicity and efficacy. And it may be hoped, that a few theo
retical positions, well ascertained, with a moderate experience,
may enable the young practitioner to proceed to a considerable
variety of cases with safety and success.
Thus also, as the apostles had the power of speaking various
languages miraculously, it seems possible from the late improve
ments in grammar, logic, and the history of the human mind,
for young persons, by learning the names of visible objects and
actions in any unknown barbarous language, to improve and ex
tend it immediately, and to preach to the natives in it.
DURING THE PRESENT STATE OF THE EARTH. 557
The great extensiveness of the Rabbinical Hebrew, and of
Arabic, of Greek and Latin, of Sclavonic and French, and of
many other languages in their respective ways, also of the Chinese
character, ought to be taken into consideration here.
And though we have not the gift of prophecy, yet that of the
interpretation of prophecy seems to increase every day, by com
paring the Scriptures with themselves, the prophecies with the
events, and, in general, the word of God with his works.
To this we may add, that when preachers of the gospel carry
with them the useful manual arts, by which human life is ren
dered secure and comfortable, such as the arts of building, tilling
the ground, defending the body by suitable clothing, &c. it
cannot but make them extremely acceptable to the barbarous
nations ; as the more refined arts and sciences, mathematics,
natural and experimental philosophy, &c. will to the more
civilized ones.
And it is an additional weight in favour of all this reasoning,
that the qualifications here considered may all be acquired in a
natural way. For thus they admit of unlimited communication,
improvement, and increase ; whereas, when miraculous powers
cease, there is not only one of the evidences withdrawn, but a
recommendation and means of admittance also.
However, far be it from us to determine by anticipation, what
God may or may not do ! The natural powers, which favour the
execution of this great command of our Saviour's, to preach the
gospel to all nations, ought to be perpetual monitors to us to do
so; and, as we now live in a more adult age of the world, more
will now be expected from our natural powers. The Jews had
some previous notices of Christ's first coming, and good persons
were thereby prepared to receive him ; however, his appearance,
and entire conduct, were very different from what they expected ;
so that they stood in need of the greatest docility and humility,
in order to become disciples and apostles. And it is probable,
that something analogous to this will happen at Christ's second
coming. We may perhaps say, that some glimmerings of the
day begin already to shine in the hearts of all those who study
and delight in the word and works of God.
Prop. LXXXV.—It is not probable that there will be any pure
or complete Happiness, before the Destruction of this World
by Fire.
That the restoration of the Jews, and the universal establish
ment of the true religion, will be the causes of great happiness,
and change the face of this world much for the better, may be
inferred both from the prophecies, and from the nature of the
thing. But still, that the great crown of glory promised to
Christians must be in a state ulterior to this establishment, ap
pears for the following reasons.
558 A FUTURE STATE.
First, From the express declarations of the Scriptures. Thus
St. Peter says, that the earth must he burnt up, before we are to
expect a new heaven, and new earth, wherein dwelleth righteous
ness; and St. Paul, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the king
dom of God; the celestial glorious body, made like unto that of
Christ, at the resurrection of the dead, being requisite for this
purpose.
Secondly, The present disorderly state of the natural world
does not permit of unmixed happiness; and it does not seem,
that this can be rectified in any great degree, till the earth hare
received the baptism by fire.
But I presume to affirm nothing particular in relation to
future events. One may just ask, whether Christ's reign of a
thousand years upon earth does not commence with the universal
establishment of Christianity ; and whether the second resur
rection, the new heavens, and new earth, &c. do not coincide
with the conflagration.
One ought also to add, with St. Peter, as the practical conse
quence of this proposition, that the dissolution of this world by
fire is the strongest motive to an indifference to it, and to that
holy conversation and godliness, which may fit us for the new
heavens, and new earth.
SECT. III.
A FUTURE STATE AFTER THE EXPIRATION OF THIS LIFE.
Prop. LXXXVI.—It is probable from the mere Light ofNature,
that there will be a Future State.
I do not here mean, that mankind in ancient times did dis
cover a future state, and reason themselves into it. This, I
apprehend, is contrary to the fact, a future state having been
taught all makind by patriarchal revelations before or after the
flood. Nor do I mean, that men could have done this without
any assistance, primarily or secondarily, from revelation, and by
mere unassisted reason. This is a problem of too deep a nature to
be determined conclusively ; or, if it can, we shall determine for the
opposite side, as it seems to me, as soon as our knowledge of the
powers of the human mind is arrived at a sufficient height. My
design is only to shew, that the works of God are so far opened
to us in the present age, that, when the question concerning a
future state is put, we ought to determine for the affirmative,
though the authority of his word be not taken into consideration-
Here then I observe,
A FUTURE STATE. 559
First, That it is not possible to produce any evidence against
a future state ; so that the probability for it must at least be
equal to that against it, i. e. to the fraction |, if we speak
according to the precise language used in the doctrine of chances.
We are apt indeed to conclude, that because what we see is, so
what we see not, is not ; and consequently that there is no future
state ; i. e. we make our ignorance of the means by which our
existence is preserved after death, and of the manner in which
we are to exist, an argument against it. But this is utterly
inconclusive. Our ignorance is a nothing, and therefore can be
no foundation to go upon ; and we have every day instances of
the mistakes which reasoning from it would lead us into. If
there be really a future state, it seems very possible, that its
connexion with other realities in this state may afford presump
tions for it; and that it does so, I shall shew in the paragraphs
that follow: but, if there be no future state, this non-entity
cannot have any properties or connexions, upon which to erect
an argument for it. We must therefore, previously to all pro
bable arguments for a future state, own that we are ignorant
whence we came, and whither we go ; and that our not being
able to penetrate into the dark regions beyond death, were that
absolutely the case, would not be an evidence, that there is
nothing in those regions. That we can both penetrate thither,
and discover something in these regions, is my next business to
shew. For,
Secondly, The subtle nature of sensation, thought, and motion,
afford some positive presumptions for a future state. The
connexion of these with matter, and their dependence on it, are
perhaps more fully seen in the foregoing account of vibrations
and association, than in any other system that has yet been
produced. However, there remains one chasm still, viz. that
between sensation, and the material organs, which this theory
does not attempt to fill up. An immaterial substance may be
required for the simplest sensation ; and if so, since it does not
appear how this substance can be effected by the dissolution of
the gross body at death, it remains probable, that it will subsist
after death, i. e. that there will be a future state.
Or if we take the system of the materialists, and suppose
matter capable of sensation, and consequently of intellect, ratio
cination, affection, and the voluntary power of motion, we must,
however, suppose an elementary infinitesimal body in the embryo,
capable of vegetating in ulero, and of receiving and retaining
such a variety of impressions of the external world, as corre
sponds to all the variety of our sensations, thoughts, and motions;
and when the smallness and wonderful powers of this elementary
body are considered in this view, it seems to me, that the depo
sition of the gross crust at death, which was merely instrumental
during the whole course of life, is to be looked upon as having
no more power to destroy it, than the accretion of this crust had
500 A FUTURE STATE.
a share in its original existence, and wonderful powers ; but, on
the contrary, that the elementary body will still subsist, retain
its power of vegetating again, and, when it does this, shew what
changes have been made in it by the impressions of external
objects here ; i. e. receive according to the deeds done in the
gross body, and reap as it has sowed.
Or, if these speculations be thought too refined, we may,
however, from the evident instrumentality of the muscles, mem
branes, bones, &c. to the nervous system, and of one part of this
to another, compared with the subtle nature of the principle of
sensation, thought, and motion, infer in an obvious and popular,
but probable way, that this principle only loses its present instru
ment of action by death. And the restitution of our mental and
voluntary powers, after their cessation or derangement by sleep,
apoplexies, maniacal and other disorders, prepares for the more
easy conception of the possibility and probability of the same
thing after death. As therefore, before we enter upon any dis
quisitions of this kind, the probability for a future state is just
equal to that against it, i. e. each equal to the fraction J ; so it
seems, that the first step we take, though it be through regions
very faintly illuminated, does, however, turn the scale, in some
measure, in favour of a future state ; and that, whether the
principle of thought and action within us be considered in the
most philosophical light to which we can attain, or in an obvious
and popular one.
Thirdly, The changes of some animals into a different form,
after an apparent death, seem to be a strong argument of the
forementioned power of elementary animal bodies ; as the growth
of vegetables from seeds apparently putrefied is of a Uke power
in elementary vegetable bodies. And all these phaenomena, with
the renewals of the face of nature, awaking from sleep, recovery
from diseases, &c. seem in the vulgar, most obvious, and most
natural way of considering these things, to be hints and pre
sumptions of a life after the extinction of this.
Fourthly, The great desire of a future life, with the horror of
annihilation, which are observable in a great part of mankind,
are presumptions for a future life, and against annihilation. All .
other appetites and inclinations have adequate objects prepared
for them; it cannot therefore be supposed, that this sum total of,
them all should go ungratified. And this argument will hold,
in some measure, from the mere analogy of nature, though we
should not have recourse to the moral attributes of God; but it
receives great additional force from considering him as our father
and protector.
If it be said, that this desire is factitious, and the necessary
effect of self-love : I answer, that all our other desires are facti
tious, and deducible from self-love, also ; and that many of those
which are gratified, proceed from a self-love of a grosser kind.
Besides, self-love is only to be destroyed by, and for the sake of,
A FUTURE STATE. 5G1
the love of God, and of , our neighbour. Now the ultimate
prevalency of these is a still stronger argument for a future life,
in which we may first love God, and then our neighbour in and
through him.
Fifthly, The pain which attends the child during its birth or
passage into this world, the separation and death of the placenta,
by which the child received its nourishment in utero, with other
circumstances, resemble what happens at death. Since therefore
the child, by means of its birth, enters upon a new scene, has
new senses, and, by degrees, intellectual powers of perception,
conferred upon it, why may not something analogous to this
happen at death ? Our ignorance of the manner in which this
is to be effected, is certainly no presumption against it ; as all
who are aware of the great ignorance of man, will readily allow.
Could any being of equal understanding with man, but ignorant
of what happens upon birth, judge beforehand that birth was an
introduction to a new life, unless he was previously informed of
the suitableness of the bodily organs to the external world?
Would he not rather conclude, that the child must immediately
expire upon so great a change, upon wanting so many things
necessary to his subsistence, and being exposed to so many
hazards and impressions apparently unsuitable ? And would not
the cries of the child confirm him in all this ? And thus we may
conclude, that our birth was even intended to intimate to us a
future life, as well as to introduce us into the present.
Sixthly, It would be very dissonant to the other events of
life, that death should be the last ; that the scene should con
clude with suffering. This can scarce be reconciled to the
beauty and harmony of the visible world, and to the general
prepollency of pleasure over pain, and subserviency of pain to
pleasure, before-mentioned. All the evils of life, of which we
are judges, contribute some way to improve and perfect us.
Shall therefore the last which we see, and the greatest in our
apprehensions, quite extinguish our existence ? Is it not much
more likely, that it will perfect all such as are far advanced, and
be a suitable correction and preparatory to the rest? Upon
supposition of a future eternal life, in which our happiness is to
arise from the previous annihilation of ourselves, and from the
pure love of God, and of our neighbour, it is easy to see how
death may contribute more to our perfection, than any other
event of our lives; and this will make it quite analogous to all
the others. But that our lives should conclude with a bitter
morsel, is such a supposition, as can hardly consist with the
benevolence of the Deity, in the most limited sense in which this
attribute can be ascribed to him.
Seventhly, All that great apparatus for carrying us from body
to mind, and from self-love to the pure love of God, which the
doctrine of association opens to view, is an argument that these
great ends will at last be attained ; and that all the imperfect
562 A FUTURE STATE.
individuals, who have left this school of benevolence and piety at
different periods, will again appear on the stage of a life analogous
to this, though greatly different in particular things, in order to
resume and complete their several remaining tasks, and to be
made happy thereby. If we reason upon the designs of Provi
dence in the most pure and perfect manner, of which our faculties
are capable, i. e. according to the most philosophical analogy, we
shall be unavoidably led to this conclusion. There are the most
evident marks of design in this apparatus, and of power and
knowledge without limits every where. What then can hinder
the full accomplishment of the purpose designed? The consi
deration of God's infinite benevolence, compared with the prospect
of happiness to result to his creatures from this design, adds great
strength to the argument.
Eighthly, Virtue is, in general, rewarded here, and has the
marks of the divine approbation ; vice the contrary. And yet,
as far as we can judge, this does not always happen ; nay, it
seems to happen very seldom, that a good man is rewarded here
in any exact proportion to his merit, or a vicious man punished
exactly according to his demerit. Now these apparent inequalities
in the dispensations of Providence, in subordinate particulars, are
the strongest argument for a future state, in which God may
shew his perfect justice and equity, and the consistency of all his
conduct with itself. To suppose virtue in general to be in a
suffering state, and vice in a triumphant one, is not only contrary
to obvious facts, but would also, as it appears to me, destroy all
our reasoning upon the divine conduct. But if the contrary be
laid down as the general rule, which is surely the language of
Scripture, as well as of reason, then the exceptions to this rule,
which again both Scripture and reason attest, are irrefragable
evidences for a future state, in which things will be reduced to a
perfect uniformity. Now, if but so much as one eminently good
or eminently wicked person can be proved to survive after the
passage through the gulph of death, all the rest must be supposed
to survive also from natural analogy. The case of martyrs for
religion, natural or revealed, deserves a particular consideration
here. They cannot be said to receive any reward for that last
and greatest act of obedience.
Ninthly, The voice of conscience within a man accusing or
excusing him, from whatever cause it proceeds, supernatural
impression, natural instinct, acquired associations, &c. is a pre
sumption, that we shall be called hereafter to a tribunal ; and
that this voice of conscience is intended to warn and direct us
how to prepare ourselves for a trial at that tribunal. This, again,
is an argument, which analogy teaches us to draw from the
relation in which we stand to God, compared with earthly relations.
And it is a farther evidence of the justness of this argument,
that all mankind in all ages seem to have been sensible of the
force of it.
A FUTURE STATE. 563
Tenthly, The general belief of a future state, which has
prevailed in all ages and nations, is an argument of the reality of
this future state. And this will appear, whether we consider the
efficient or final cause of this general belief. If it arose from
patriarchal revelations, it confirms the Scriptures, and conse
quently establishes itself in the manner to be explained under the
next proposition. If it arose from the common parents of man
kind after the flood, it appears at least to have been an ante
diluvian tradition. If mankind were led into it by some such
reasons and analogies as the foregoing, its being general is a
presumption of the justness of these reasons. The truth of the
case appears to be, that all these things, and probably some
others, concurred (amongst the rest, apparitions of the dead, or
the belief of these, dreams of apparitions, and the seeming
passage to and from another world during sleep, the body being
also, as it were, dead at the same time) ; and that, as the other
parts of the simple, pure, patriarchal religion degenerated into
superstition and idolatry, so the doctrine of a future state was
adulterated with fictions and fables, as we find it among the
Greeks and Romans, and other pagan nations.
As to the Jews, their high opinion of themselves on acoount of
the covenant made with their father Abraham, and repeated at
Sinai, which in its first and literal sense was merely temporal,
contributed probably to make the more gross and carnal amongst
them overlook the doctrine of a future state, as attested either
by reason or tradition. But when their captivity by Nebu
chadnezzar, and other calamities, rendered this world contemptible
and bitter to them, many, as the Pharisees and Essenes, had
recourse in earnest to this great source of comfort; whilst others,
adhering servilely to the letter of the law, expected only temporal
prosperity under a victorious Messiah. However, it is not to be
doubted, but that, before this, good Jews, particularly such as
did, or were ready to, lay down their lives for the sake of religion,
had the support of this belief; and it appears to me, that there
are many things in the Old Testament, which both shew, that
the doctrine of a future state was the current opinion among the
Jews ; and also that it was attended with far less expectations
than amongst Christians ; whence it might easily be overlooked
and neglected by carnal minds, as above noted. Their hearts
were set upon temporal prosperity, for themselves considered
separately, for their nation, for their posterity; all which we
must, however, suppose to be more suitable to their other
circumstances, and to those of the world in general, when the
whole of things is taken into consideration, than if they had had
more full and magnificent expectations after death.
As to the final causes of the belief of a future state amongst
mankind, if we suppose that these are either the better regulation
each individual, they would be strong arguments for the divine
o o 2
of states, and the public haj the private happiness of
564 A FUTITHE STATE.
benevolence, and consequently for a future state; even though it
be supposed, that the efficient cause was only the invention of
those men, who saw that this doctrine would be useful publicly
and privately. For God must, at least, have permitted this ;
according to the doctrine of these papers, must have caused it.
But, without entering into this examination of the efficient or
final causes, we may affirm, that the mere general prevalence of
the doctrine of a future state is of itself a strong presumption
of its truth. If it be true, it is natural, i. e. analogous to other
things, to suppose that we should have some general expectation
of it, just as in other cases, where we are nearly concerned; also
that as mankind advance in knowledge and spirituality by the
advanced age of the world, this doctrine should be more and
more opened to them. Now this is the fact; the doctrine of a
future state has, from the first memory of things in the post
diluvian world, been thus perpetually opened more and more.
Therefore, e converso, it is probable, that the doctrine itself
is true.
It may be objected to some of the arguments here alleged for
a future state, that they are applicable to brutes; and therefore
that they prove too much. To this we may answer, that the
future existence of brutes cannot be disproved by any arguments,
as far as yet appears : let therefore those which favour it be
allowed their due weight, and only that. There are, besides
those common to all animals, many which are peculiar to man,
and those very forcible ones. We have therefore much stronger
evidence for our own future existence than for that of brutes ;
which, again, is a thing very analogous to our circumstances.
It is something more than mere curiosity, that makes benevolent
persons concerned for the future welfare of the brute creation;
and yet they have so much to do nearer home, for themselves,
and their relatives, by way of preparation for a future state, that
it would be a great misuse of time to dwell upon such foreign
speculations.
The doctrine of transmigration may be considered as an argu
ment for the future existence of all animals in one view; though
a most pernicious corruption of the practical doctrine of a future
state in another.
It may farther be objected to some part of the foregoing
reasoning, that the destruction of vegetables in so many various
ways, that few, relatively speaking, come to perfection, with the
many irregularities of the natural world, shew that God does
not, in fact, bring all his works to perfection. I answer, that if
vegetable life be not attended with sensation (and we do not at
all know that it is), this, with infinite other phaenomena of a like
kind, may be no irregularity at all. The inanimate world may,
according to the present constitution of things, however irregular
that may seem to us, serve, in the best possible manner, to pro
mote the happiness of the animate. We are apt to estimate
A FUTURE STATE.
maturity in natural productions according to very narrow re
lative considerations. But, in truth, that herb or fruit is
mature, which has answered its end in respect of animal life, the
support, for instance, of a peculiar set of insects; and if the
particles of inanimate matter thus pass through the bodies of
vegetables and animals in an endless revolution, they may per
form all the offices intended by God : or he may have fitted
them for infinite other uses and offices, of which we know
nothing.
But if vegetables have sensation, which may indeed be a
speculation very foreign to us, but is what we cannot disprove,
then vegetables may be provided for in the same manner as
animals. Or, if we suppose the argument to fail here, still
animals, i. e. those allowed by all to be so, may live hereafter,
though no vegetables do identically, and few according to the
ordinary course of propagation by their seeds or shoots : or the
argument may fail in respect of brute animals, and extend to
man alone.
Prop. LXXXVII.—The Christian Revelation gives us an abso
lute Assurance of a Future State.
That the reader may see more fully the degree of evidence
afforded by the Scriptures to this most important doctrine, I will
here make the following observations.
First, then, A. future state is the plain and express doctrine of
the New Testament, in the obvious and literal sense of the words.
It rests therefore upon the authority of the revelation itself.
Hence all the miracles of Christ and his apostles, and, by conse
quence, of Moses and the prophets, all the prophecies of the
Scriptures, whose accomplishment is already past, and visible to
us, become pledges and attestations of the truth of this doctrine.
We cannot suppose that God would have given such powers and
evidences, as must necessarily propagate and establish this doc
trine, were it not true. For this is the grand, and, as we may
say, the only doctrine of the New Testament, and even of the '
Old when interpreted by the New, as it ought to be.
And, as this is the most convincing evidence even to philoso
phical persons, so it is almost the only one which can affect and
satisfy the vulgar. But indeed what resource can any man have
in things above his capacity, besides resting on those who have
evidently more power, knowledge, and goodness, than himself,
who have worked miracles, foretold things to come, preached
and practised righteousness?
All the miracles of both the Old and New Testament were
performed by Christ in effect, i. e. by his power and authority.
He therefore must be able to preserve us from perishing utterly ;
and the predictions of future states in this world, which God gave
to him, and he to his servant John and others, both before and
A FUTURE STATE.
after his coming, shew, by their accomplishment, that all his other
predictions, and especially the great one of a resurrection to life
eternal, will also be accomplished in due time.
Secondly, The persons brought back to life again in the Old
and New Testaments, and, above all, the resurrection of Christ
himself, have a great tendency to strengthen the foregoing argu
ment, and to remove all our doubts, fears, and jealousies, con
cerning the reality of a future state. The same may be said of
the histories of Enoch and Elijah, and of the appearance of Moses
and Elijah at Christ's transfiguration. As there are no footsteps
back again from the grave to life, our imagination staggers,
and our faith stands in need of a sensible as well as rational
support.
Thirdly, The great readiness of the prophets and apostles, and
of other good Jews and Christians after their example, to suffer
death for the sake of their religion, is a singular comfort and
encouragement to us. We are sure from hence, that they believed
a future state themselves ; and they could not but know whether
or no they had the power of working miracles, had seen Christ
after his death, had received divine communications, &c. They
must therefore have been possessed of these undeniable evidences
for a future state ; they could neither be deceived themselves in
this matter, nor deceive others.
Fourthly, The whole history and institutions of the Jewish
people, when interpreted by Christianity, are types and prophecies
of a future state. And here the Old and New Testaments don-
firm and illustrate each other in the strongest manner : and the
Old Testament, when interpreted by the New, becomes entirely
spiritual, and equally expressive, with the New, of the doctrine
of a future state. It may be observed of the Psalms particularly,
that the spiritual interpretation is to us, in the present times,
more easy and natural upon the whole, than the literal and tem
poral one.
Fifthly, If we compare what was advanced above, concerning
the elementary infinitesimal body, with the scripture doctrine of
the resurrection of the body, and particularly with St. Paul's
account of it, 1 Cor. xv. there will appear such a harmony and
coincidence between the evidences from reason and those from
Scripture, as will greatly confirm both.
Prop. LXXXVIII.—The Rewards and Punishments of a future
Life will far exceed the Happiness and Misery of this, both in
Degree and Duration.
Here I will first consider the suggestions of the light of
reason ; secondly, the declarations of the Scriptures.
First, then, As man appears, according to the light of reason,
to be in a progressive state, it may be conjectured, or even pre
sumed, that the rewards and punishments of a future life will
A FUTURE STATE. 567
exceed that happiness and misery, which are here the natural
consequences of virtue and vice. However, the light of reason
is not clear and certain in this point : neither can it determine,
whether the happiness and misery of the next life will be pure
and unmixed, or no. It may indeed shew, that each man will
receive according to his deserts ; but then, since there is no pure
virtue or vice here, since also there may be room for both virtue
and vice hereafter, the rewards and punishments of the next life
may succeed each other at short intervals, as in the present: or, if
we adopt the mechanical system throughout, then we can only
hope and presume, that God will ultimately make the happiness of
each individual to outweigh his misery, finitely or infinitely ; and
shall be entirely uncertain, whether or no, at the expiration of
this life, we shall pass into another, in like manner, chequered
with happiness and misery : and thus one of the principal motives
of virtue and piety would be lost.
It is true, indeed, that the heathens had their Elysium and
Tartarus ; but then these doctrines were probably the corrupted
remains of some traditionary revelation ; and so contribute to
strengthen the real doctrine of the Scriptures on this head,
which I am to set forth in the next place.
The Scriptures then represent the state of the good hereafter,
as attended with the purest and greatest happiness ; and that of
the wicked as being exquisitely and eternally miserable. And
though the words translated eternal and for ever, in the Old and
New Testaments, do not seem to stand for an absolute meta
physical infinity of duration, as we now term it, yet they cer
tainly import a duration of a great relative length, and may
import any long period of time, short of an absolute eternity.
The Scriptures, therefore, in their declarations concerning the
degree and duration of future rewards and punishments, lay
before us the strongest motives to obedience ; such as, if duly
considered, would rouse and alarm our hopes and fears, and all
our faculties, to the utmost ; excite to the most earnest prayers ;
and mortify instantly to the things of this world.
Now, though reason cannot discover this to us, or determine it
absolutely, as just now remarked; yet it approves it, when dis
covered and determined previously. At least, it approves of the
pure and indefinite happiness of the good, and acquiesces in the
indefinite punishment of the wicked. For we always seem ready
to expect a state of pure holiness and happiness from the infinite
perfection of the Deity ; and yet the present mixture of happi
ness with misery, and of virtue with vice, also any future degree
of vice and misery, may be reconciled to infinite perfection and
benevolence, upon supposition that they be finally overpowered
by their opposites : or, if we consult the dictates of the moral
sense alone, without entering into the hypothesis of mechanism,
the pure misery of the wicked, under certain limitations as to
degree and duration, may be reconciled to the mercy of God, and
568 A FUTURE STATE.
will be required by his justice. But the moral sense was cer
tainly intended to warn us concerning futurity.
It will not be improper here to remark, that the Scriptures
favour our first notions concerning pure virtue and happiness, by
the mention of a paradisiacal state, as the original one in which
man was placed ; and by representing our future happiness as a
restoration to this state. They take notice therefore of that
greatest of all difficulties, the introduction of evil into the works
of an infinitely benevolent Being; and by ascribing it to sin, the
thing which is most opposite to God, raise an expectation that it
must be entirely overcome at last.
Prop. LXXXIX.—It is probable, that the future Happinest of
the Good will be of a spiritual Nature ; but the future Misery
of the Wicked may be both corporeal and mental.
These are points in which the Scriptures have not been
explicit. It is, therefore, our duty to beware of vain curiosity,
and to arm ourselves with a deep humility. We are not judges
what degree of knowledge is most suited to our condition. That
there will be a future state at all, has not been discovered, with
certainty, to a great part of mankind; and we may obserre in
general, that God conceals from us all particular things of a
distant nature, and only gives us general notices of those that are
near; and sometimes not even so much as this, where a peculiar
duty or design of Providence requires otherwise. However, as
we are obliged to read and meditate upon the Scriptures, to
examine our own natures, and to compare them with the Scrip
tures, we seem authorized to make some inquiry into this high
and interesting point.
Now it appears from the foregoing theory, as well as from
other methods of reasoning, that the love of God, and of his
creatures, is the only point in which man can rest ; and that the
first, being generated by means of the last, does afterwards
purify, exalt, and comprehend it. In like manner, the Scrip
tures place our ultimate happiness in singing praises to God, and
the Lamb; in becoming one with God, and members of Christ,
and of each other ; which phrases have a remarkable agreement
with the foregoing deductions from reason : and we seem autho
rized to conclude from both together, that the future happiness
of the blessed will consist in contemplating, adoring, and loving
God ; in obeying his commands ; and, by so doing, ministering
to the happiness of others, rejoicing in it, and being partakers
of it.
It seems probable also, both from some passages of the Scrip
tures, and from the analogy of our natures, that our attachments
to dear friends and relations, for whom we are not to sorrow as
they that have no hope, and our esteem and affection for emi
nently pious persons in former ages, for Abraham, Isaac, and
A FUTURE STATE.
Jacob, and the spirits of other just men made perfect, will still
subsist on our arrival at the true Mount Sum, and the heavenly
Jerusalem.
It may be conjectured farther, that the glorified body will not
be capable of pleasures that may be called corporeal, in the same
sense as the present bodily pleasures are ; but only serve as the
eye and ear do to spiritual religious persons ; i. e. be a mere
instrument and inlet to the refined pleasures of benevolence and
piety.
Is it not probable, that this earth, air, &c. will continue to be
the habitations of the blessed 1 It seems to me, that a very
wonderful agreement between philosophical discoveries and the
Scriptures will appear hereafter. Some instances, and many
bints, of this agreement may be seen in Mr. Whistou's works.
Only let us always remember, that we must think and speak
upon the things of another world much more imperfectly than
children do concerning the pleasures, privileges, and occupations
of manhood.
With respect to the punishments of the wicked in a future
state, we may observe, that these may be corporeal, though the
happiness of the blessed should not be so. For sensuality is one
great part of vice, and a principal source of it. It may be neces
sary therefore, that actual fire should feed upon the elementary
body, and whatever else is added to it after the resurrection, in
order to burn out the stains of sin. The elementary body may
also perhaps bear the action of fire for ages, without being
destroyed, like the caput mortuum, or terra damnata, of the
chemists. For this terra damnata remains after the calcination
of vegetable and animal substances by intense and long-continued
fires. The destruction of this world by fire, spoken of both in
the Scriptures and in many profane writings, the phaenomena of
comets, and of the sun and fixed stars, those vast bodies of fire,
which burn for ages, the great quantity of sulphureous matter
contained in the bowels of the earth, the destruction of Sodom
and Gomorrah by fire and brimstone, alluded to in the New
Testament, the representation of future punishment under the
emblem of the fire of Gehenna, and, above all, the express
passages of Scripture, in which it is declared that the wicked
shall be punished by fire, even everlasting fire, confirm this
position concerning the corporeal nature of future punishment,
as well as give light to one another.
The same considerations confirm the long duration of future
punishment. For if the earth be supposed to be set on fire,
either by the near approach of a comet, or by some general fer
mentation in its own bowels, just as the deluge was caused partly
by waters from the heavens, partly by those of the great deep,
it may burn for many revolutions, either in a* planetary or a
cometary orbit ; and these may be the ages of ages, spoken of in
;ihe Apocalypse. Farther, if the duration of Christ's reign upon
570 A FUTURE STATE.
earth for a thousand years be estimated, as interpreters have with
apparent reason estimated other durations in the prophetical
writings, by putting a day for a year, then will this reign- continue
for 360,000 years. And since it appears to be previous to the
punishment in the lake of fire, and limited, and whereas that
punishment is to endure for ages of ages, that is, for an indefi
nitely long period of time, one may perhaps conjecture, that this
punishment is to be of longer duration than the reign of Christ
upon earth for 360,000 years. But these things are mere con
jectures. God has not been pleased to discover the kind, degree,
or duration of future punishment in explicit terms. However,
the sacred writings concur every where with the voice of reason
in alarming us to the utmost extent of our faculties, lest we come
into that place of torment. The punishments threatened to the
body politic of the Jews have fallen upon it in the heaviest and
most exemplary manner. The Jews, considered as a body politic,
have now been in a state of suffering, without any interval of
relaxation, for almost 1 700 years ; during which time they have
been like Cain the elder brother, who slew Abel, because he was
more righteous than himself, and his sacrifice more acceptable
than his own, fugitives and vagabonds over the face of the earth:
they have been persecuted and slain every where, having the
indelible mark of circumcision set upon them, to which they still
adhere most tenaciously, and which has been a principal means
of preventing their apostatizing from their own religion, after
they grow up to adult age. And this may serve as a type and
evidence of the certainty and greatness of future punishment,
shewing that it will be greater, and more lasting, than human
foresight could possibly have conjectured ; just as their final
restoration seems to presage the final redemption and salvation of
the most wicked. And therefore, according to the earnest and
affectionate admonition of our Saviour, he that hath ears to hear,
let him hear.
But if the punishments of another world should be corporeal in
some measure, there is still the greatest reason to believe that
they will be spiritual also ; and that by selfishness, ambition,
malevolence, envy, revenge, cruelty, profaneness, murmuring
against God, infidelity, and blasphemy, men will become tor
mentors to themselves, and to each other ; deceive, and be
deceived ; infatuate, and be infatuated ; so as not to be able to
repent, and turn to God, till the appointed time comes, if that
should ever be.
But we are not to suppose, that the degree, probably not the
duration, of future punishment, corporeal or mental, will be the
same to all. It may also perhaps be, that there may be some
alleviating circumstances, or even some admixture of happiness.
Only the Scriptures do not authorize any such conjectures ; and
therefore we ought to proceed with the utmost caution, lest we
lead ourselves or others into a fatal mistake. And indeed, if the
A FUTURE STATE. 571
happiness of the blessed be pure and unmixed, as the Scriptures
seem to declare, and reason to hope, then may the misery of the
wicked be unmixed also. Nevertheless, since the goodness of
God has no opposite, analogy does not here require that con
clusion.
Prop. XC.—It seems probable, that the Soul will remain in a
State of Inactivity, though perhaps not of Insensibility, from
Death to the Resurrection.
Some religious persons seem to fear, lest by allowing a state
of insensibility to succeed immediately after death, for some
hundreds or perhaps thousands of years, the hopes and fears of
another world should be lessened. But we may affirm, on the
contrary, that they would be increased thereby. For time, being
a relative thing, ceases in respect of the soul, when it ceases to
think. If therefore we admit of a state of insensibility between
death and the resurrection, these two great events will fall upon
two contiguous moments of time, and every man enter directly
into heaven or hell, as soon as he departs out of this world, which
is a most alarming consideration.
That the soul is reduced to a state of inactivity by the depo
sition of the gross body, may be conjectured from its entire
dependence upon the gross body for powers and faculties, in the
manner explained in the foregoing part of this work. It seems
from hence, that neither the elementary body, nor the immaterial
principle, which is generally supposed to preside over this, can
exert themselves without a set of suitable organs. And the
Scriptures of the New Testament, by speaking of the resurrection
of the body as synonymous to a future life, favour this conjecture.
There are also many passages in the Old Testament, and some in
the New, which intimate death to be a state of rest, silence,
sleep, and inactivity, or even of insensibility. However, there
are other passages of Scripture which favour the opposite conjec
ture. It seems also, that motion, and consequently perception,
may not cease entirely in the elementary body after death ; just
as in the seeds of vegetables there is probably some small intes
tine motion kept up, during winter, sufficient to preserve life,
and the power of vegetation, on the return of the spring. And
thus the good may be in a state of rest, tranquillity, and happi
ness, upon the whole rather pleasant than painful, and the
wicked in a contrary state. Some imperfectly good persons may
also receive what remains of the necessary purification, during
the interval between death and the resurrection. And, upon the
whole, we may guess, that though the soul may not be in an
insensible state, yet it will be in a passive one, somewhat resem
bling a dream ; and not exert any great activity till the resurrec
tion, being perhaps roused to this by the fire of the conflagration.
For analogy seems to intimate, that the resurrection will be
572 THE TERMS OF SALVATION.
effected by means strictly natural. And thus every man maj
rise in bis own order, agreeably to the words of St. Paul.
However, let it be remembered, that all our notions concerning
the intermediate state are mere conjectures. It may be a state
of absolute insensibility on one hand, or of great activity on the
other. The Scriptures are not explicit in this matter, and
natural reason is utterly unequal to the task of determining in it.
I have just hinted a middle opinion, as being more plausible
perhaps than either extreme. Such inquiries and disquisitions
may a little awaken the mind, and withdraw it from the magical
influences of this world : and, if the children of this world find a
pleasure and advantage in ruminating upon their views and
designs in it, much more may the children of another world, by
making that the subject of their meditations and inquiries.
SECT. IV.
THE TERMS OF SALVATION.
We have seen in the foregoing Section the greatness of the
rewards and punishments of a future life. Now this is a point
of infinite importance to us to be practically and duly considered.
It is of infinite practical importance to come within the terms of
salvation at the day of judgment. Though all God's creatures
should be made happy at last indefinitely, yet still there is in the
way in which we do, and must, and ought to conceive of these
things, an infinite practical difference, whether at the resurrection
we enter into the new Jerusalem, and the kingdom of heaven, or
whether we be cast into the lake of fire, whose smoke ascendeth
up for ever and ever. Let us inquire therefore, what are the
terms of salvation after this short life is ended, i. e. what degree
of purity and perfection is required of us here, in order to be
rescued from the miseries of another world, and advanced into
the glorious mansions of the blessed.
Prop. XCI.—It follows from the foregoing Theory of our intel
lectual Pleasures and Pains, that the Bulk of Mankind are not
qualifiedfor pure unmixed Happiness.
For the bulk of mankind are by no means so far advanced in
self-annihilation, and in the love of God, and of his creatures in
and through him, as appears, from the tenor of the foregoing
observations, to be required for the attainment of pure happiness.
There are few, even in christian countries, that so much as know
THE TERMS OF SALVATION. 573
what the true religion and purity of the heart is ; at least, that
attend to it with care and earnestness: and in pagan countries
still fewer by far. How exceedingly few then must that little
flock be, whose wills are broken and subjected to the divine will,
who delight in happiness wherever they see it, who look upon
what concerns themselves with indifference, and are perpetually
intent upon their Father's business, in any proper sense of these
words! And as experience shews us, that men are not carried
from worldly-mindedness to heavenly-mindedness, nor advanced
from lower degrees of the last to higher in general, but by passing
through pain and sorrow; so there is the greatest reason from
the mere light of nature to apprehend, that the bulk of mankind
must suffer after death, before they can be qualified for pure and
spiritual happiness. If what we have felt here do not cure us of
sensuality, selfishness, and malevolence, there is the greatest
reason from analogy to apprehend, that severer punishments will
be applied hereafter for that purpose.
Prop. XCII.—It follows from the Declarations of the Scriptures,
that the Bulk of Mankind are not qualified for the Mansions
of the Blessed.
For, according to the Scriptures, the gate that leadeth to life
is strait, and. there are few whofind it, even though they seek to
enter in. The righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, of the
formal professors, who yet are no adulterers, extortioners, &c.
will not be in any wise sufficient. Many are called, and but few
chosen ; and, agreeably hereto, the first-fruits, which are a scrip
ture type of the chosen or elect, are small in comparison of the
lump. In like manner, the Jews are few in comparison of the
Gentiles; the 144,000, in comparison of all the tribes; the
Israelites, in comparison of all Abraham's seed; Elijah, and the
7000, in comparison of the priests and worshippers of Baal.
Thus also Noah, and his family, alone, were preserved at the
deluge ; and of the Israelites a remnant only is saved, whilst the
rest are rejected. And the reason of this smallness of the elect,
the thing here typified, appears from the conditions. For we
must take up our cross daily, hate father and mother, and even
our own lives ; else we cannot be Christ's disciples. We cannot
serve God and Mammon together. We must seek the kingdom
of God, and his righteousness, first ; hunger and thirst after it ;
and leave all to follow Christ. We must be born again, i. e.
have quite new dispositions, and take pleasure in works of piety
and charity, as we formerly did in sensual enjoyments, in honour
and profit; we must be transformed by the renewal of our minds,
walk according to the Spirit, have our hearts in heaven, and do
all to the glory of God. We must pray always ; rejoice in
tribulation ; count all things as dung in comparison of the know
ledge of Christ, and him crucified ; clothe the naked, feed the
574 THE TERMS OF SALVATION.
hungry, visit the sick, preach the gospel in all nations. If there
be strife or vain-glory, schisms or divisions, amongst us, we are
still carnal. If there be wrath, clamour, evil-speaking, covetous-
ness, we cannot inherit the kingdom of God. If we govern not
our tongues, we deceive ourselves; our religion is vain. The
lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the pride of life* are
inconsistent with the love of the Father, i. e. with happiness, with
freedom from tormenting fear. Though we give all our goods to
feed the poor, and our bodies to be burnt, even suffer martyrdom,
it profiteth nothing, unless we have that charity, that love, which
seeketh not her own, but rejoiceth in the truth, &c. i. e. unless
we become indifferent to ourselves, and love God, and his truth,
glory, and goodness, manifested in his creatures, alone. This
world, with the bulk of its inhabitants, is all along in Scripture
represented as doomed to destruction, on account of the degene
racy, idolatry, wickedness, which every where prevail in it. The
true Jews and Christians are a separate people, in the world, not
of the world, but hated and persecuted by it, because they shine
as lights in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, which
cannot bear the light, &c. &c. for it would be endless to tran
scribe texts to this purpose. If a man has but courage to see
and acknowledge the truth, he will find the same doctrine ex
pressed or implied in every part of the Bible.
Prop. XCIII.—To apply the foregoing Doctrine, as well as toe
can, to the real Circumstances of Mankind.
Here we may observe, First, That, lest the best of men, in
considering the number and greatness of their sins, and com
paring them with the purity of the scripture precepts, and the
perfection of God, should not dare to look up to him with a
filial trust and confidence in him ; lest their hearts should fail,
Christ our Saviour is sent from heaven, God manifest in the
flesh, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but
have everlasting life ; that, though our sins be as scarlet, they
should by him, by means of his sufferings, and our faith, be made
as white as wool ; and the great punishment, which must other
wise have been inflicted upon us according to what we call the
course of nature, be averted. Faith then in Christ the righteous,
will supply the place of that righteousness, and sinless perfection,
to which we cannot attain.
Secondly, And yet this faith does not make void the law, and
strict conditions, above described; but, on the contrary, esta
blishes them. For no man can have this faith in Christ, but he
who complies with the conditions. To have a sense of our sins,
to be humble and contrite, and in this state of mind to depend
upon Christ as the mediator between God and man, as able and
willing to save us, which is true faith, argues such a disposition
as will shew itself in works. And if our faith fall short of
THE TERMS OF SALVATION. 575
this, if it do not overcome the world, and shew itself by works,
it is of no avail ; it is like that of the devils, who believe arid
tremble. Men must labour therefore after this faith as much as
after any other christian grace, or rather as much as after all the
others; else they cannot obtain it. For it contains all the other
christian graces ; and we can never know that we have it, but
by our having the christian graces, which are its fruits.
Thirdly, Hence it follows, that a mere assurance, or strong
persuasion, of a man's own salvation, is neither a condition, nor
a pledge of it. The faith above described is ; and so are all
other christian graces, love, fear, trust, repentance, regeneration,
&c. when duly advanced and improved, so as to beget and perfect
each other. But there is great reason to fear, both from the
foregoing theory of the human mind, and from plain experience,
that such a strong persuasion may be generated, whilst men
continue in many gross corruptions ; and that especially if they
be first persuaded that this strong persuasion or assurance of
salvation is a condition and pledge of it, and be of sanguine
tempers: For, if they be of fearful and melancholy ones, a con
trary effect may be expected. All this appears from the fore
going theory of assent and dissent. Eager desires are attended
with hope in the sanguine, the vain-glorious, and the self-con
ceited; and this hope, as it increases, becomes a comfortable
assurance and persuasion, drawing to itself by degrees the inward
sentiments that attend upon assent. On the contrary, eager
desires in the scrupulous, superstitious, and dejected, end in fear
and dissent. But if this dejection should pass into the opposite
state, then the anxious diffidence may at once, as it were, pass
into its opposite, a joyful persuasion.
But the chief thing to be observed here is, that the Scriptures
no where make an assurance of salvation the condition or pledge
of it. Unless therefore it could be shewn to be included in faith,
love, fear, and other scriptural conditions, the doctrine of assur
ance, as it seems to be taught by some persons, cannot be justified
by the Scriptures. But all the christian graces may exist with
out an explicit assurance of, or even reflection upon, a man's
own salvation ; and fear, in particular, does not admit of this
assurance. At the same time it ought to be remembered, that
all acts of faith, love, trust, gratitude, exercised towards God,
leave peace and comfort in the mind ; and that the frequent
meditation upon the joys of another life, as our hope and crown,
will excite us powerfully to obedience. We ought therefore to
labour and pray most earnestly for the perpetual increase of the
hope of salvation ; yet waiting patiently for it, if it should be
delayed through bodily indisposition, or any other cause.
Fourthly, If it be asked, where the privilege and advantage of
faith lies, since works are necessary also, according to the fore
going account of it ; I answer, First, That the righteousness and
sufferings of Christ, with our faith in them, are necessary to
576 THE TERMS OF SALVATION.
save us from our sins, to enable us to perform our imperfect
righteousness ; and, Secondly, That faith is proposed by the
Scriptures as the means appointed by God for rendering imper
fect righteousness equivalent, in his sight, to perfect, and even
of transforming it into perfect, as soon as we are freed from that
body of flesh and death, which wars against the law of our minds.
And as faith thus improves righteousness, so every degree of
righteousness is a proportional preparative for faith ; and if it do
not produce faith, will end in self-righteousness, and Satanical
pride.
Fifthly, If it be alleged, in favour of the doctrine of justifi
cation by faith alone, and exclusively of works, that if the
greatest sinner should in the midst of his sins and impieties, stop
at once, and, with a deep sense of them, earnestly desire forgive
ness of God through Christ, firmly believing in him as his Saviour,
we cannot suppose that God would reject him ; I answer, that
this deep sense of sin, this earnest prayer, and firm belief, are
things not to be attained in a short space of time, according to the
usual course of nature. A sinner cannot be stopped at all in the
career of his sins, but by suffering ; and there may indeed be a
degree of suffering so great, as to work the due contrition in any
given short interval of time, according to the course of nature.
But it does not appear from experience, that an effectual refor
mation is generally wrought in great sinners by common calamities,
nor even by very severe ones ; though the suffering, one may hope,
is not lost ; but will here or hereafter manifest its good effects.
However, some few there are, who, recovering from a dangerous
sickness, or other great affliction, shew that their change of mind
was of a permanent nature; that they were made new creatures ,-
and that they had a real practical faith, sufficient to overcome
the world, generated in them. Now, such a faith, though it
have not time to evidence itself by works, will undoubtedly be
accepted by God ; since he knows that time alone is wanting.
Sixthly, It will be asked then, what are we to do for those
unhappy persons, who have neglected to make use of the means
of grace in due time, and who are seized by some fatal diseases
in the midst of their sins? I answer, that we must exhort them
to strive to the utmost, to pray that they may pray with faith,
with earnestness, with humility, with contrition. As far as the
dying sinner has these graces, no doubt they will avail him,
either to alleviate his future misery, or to augment his happiness.
And it seems plainly to be the doctrine of the Scriptures, that
all that can be done, must be done in this life. After death we
enter into a most durable state of happiness or misery. We
must here, as in all other cases, leave the whole to God, who
judgeth not as man judgeth. Our compassion is as imperfect
and erroneous, as our other virtues, especially in matters where
we ourselves are so deeply concerned. The greatest promises
are made to fervent prayer. Let therefore not only the dying
THE TERMS OF SALVATION. f>77
person himself, but all about him, who are thus moved with com
passion for him, fly to God in this so great distress ; not the
least devout sigh or aspiration can be lost. God accepts the
widow's mite, and even a cup of cold water, when bestowed upon
a disciple and representative of Christ. And it' the prayer, love,
faith, &c. either of the sinner himself, or of any one else, be
sufficiently fervent, he will give him repentance unto salvation.
But how shall any of us say this of ourselves ? This would be
to depend upon ourselves, and our own abilities, instead of having
faith in Christ alone.
These awakening considerations may be thought to lead to
despair. But then despair arising from them appears to be in
finitely safer, than that enthusiastic faith, or rather presumption,
which is sometimes the consequence of the doctrine of justifica
tion by faith alone. If indeed a man's despair should make him
neglect God in his last moments, put away the thoughts of his
sins, and harden himself in a careless stupidity with respect to
his future condition, this would be the worst state on this side
the grave. But it is evident, that the foregoing considerations
have no such tendency. Where a man is so terrified, that, like
David, his heart fails him, or, like the publican, he dares not
look up ; that he does not think himself worthy of the high title
of the child of God, or of admission into the kingdom of heaven :
all these emotions, all the agonies of this kind of despair, have a
great tendency to better him, to purify and perfect him, to
humble him, to break his stubborn will ; and though he should
not be able to pray but by the groanings that are unutterable,
God, who knows the mind of the spirit, which is now working in
him a repentance not to be repented of, i. e. if these groanings be
sufficiently earnest, will accept him. If they fall short of the
gospel terms, whatever these be, he will, however, be beaten
with fewer stripes. And it must be remembered, that the ques
tion is not whether a man shall die here in apparent peace, so as
to comfort the friends and by-standers under their alarming sense
of fear for themselves, and compassion for him, but whether he
shall awake in joy or torment. The despair which arises from a
fear lest our remaining disposition to sin be so great, our faith
and love so weak, and our prayer so languid, as that we do not
come up to the gospel terms, is no offence against the divine
goodness. We are to estimate this goodness in its particular
manifestations by God's promises alone ; and to do otherwise,
would be to open a door to all wickedness, and lead ourselves
into the most fatal mistakes. The Scriptures declare, in the
most express terms, that works are necessary to salvation.
Faith is never said to be effectual, when not attended by works ;
but, on the contrary, the true faith is emphatically charac
terised by its producing works. This faith is itself a work, as
much as any other, the cause and the effect of the others, all
proceeding from one universal cause through Christ. How then
578 THE TERMS OF SALVATION.
can we flatter ourselves, that a mere strong persuasion or assur
ance of salvation, of the application of Christ's merits to a man's
self in particular, will be of any avail? Especially since it is
evident, from the nature of the mind, that such a persuasion may
be generated in a wicked man ; and also from experience, that it
is sometimes found in such.
I have here endeavoured to treat this most important subject
with the greatest fidelity, and regard to truth. Gods ways are
indeed infinitely above our ways, i. e. infinitely more merciful in
reality, ultimately, than we can express or conceive. But all the
threatenings of the Scriptures have been fulfilled hitherto, as
well as the promises. There is no peace to the wicked. The
faith, which removeth mountains, availeth nothing without charity.
Not he that saith unto Christ, Lord, Lord, i. e. merely applies to
him for mercy and assistance, but he that doth the will of God,
shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. And we must not, we
cannot, explain away these express passages.
As in the body, so in the mind, great and lasting changes are
seldom wrought in a short time ; and this the history of association
shews to be the necessary consequence of the connexion between
body and mind. And yet he who made the blind to see, the
lame to walk, the deaf to hear, the lepers clean, and the maimed
whole, by a word, can as easily perform the analogous things, the
antitypes, in the mind. But then it is to be observed, that the
bodily changes by miracles were not made by our Saviour, except
in consequence of previous changes in the mind. And thus
indeed to him that hath shall be given, and he shall have more
abundantly. Love, faith, fear, prayer, will carry men on in a
very rapid progress. But then the work of regeneration is
already advanced in them. It is of infinite consequence not to lay
a stumbling-block, or rock of offence, in our own way, or in that
of others; not to break the least commandment, or teach others so to
do. Let us not be deceived, God is not mocked; what a man
soweth, that shall he also reap. Indignation and wrath, tribu
lation and anguish, must come upon every soul of man that does
evil, upon every child of disobedience.
Seventhly, It follows from the purity of the scripture precepts,
that even the better sort of Christians may be under considerable
uncertainties as to their own state ; and that in many cases, as a
man grows better, and consequently sees more distinctly his own
impurity, he will have greater fears for himself, and perhaps think
that he grows worse. Now the final cause of this is undoubtedly,
that we may make our calling and election sure, and lest he that
thinketh he standeth should fall. And yet, as wicked persons,
let them endeavour ever so much to stupify themselves, must
have frequent forebodings of the judgment that will be past upon
them at the last day ; so good persons will generally have great
comforts in the midst of their sorrows. The scripture promises
are so gracious and unlimited, the precepts for loving God, and
THE TERMS OF SALVATION. 579
rejoicing in him, so plain and express, and the histories of God's
mercies towards great sinners, and the great sins of good men,
are so endearing, that whoever reads and meditates upon the
Scripture daily, will find light spring up to him in the midst of
darkness; will hope against hope, i. e. will hope for the mercy of
God, though he has the greatest doubts and fears in relation to
his own virtue, faith, love, and hope ; and fly to him, as his
Father and Saviour, for that very reason. This will beget
earnest and incessant prayer, a perpetual care not to offend, and
a reference of all things to God. When such a person surveys
his own actions, and finds that he does in many instances of
thought, word, and deed, govern himself by the love and fear of
God, by a sense of duty, by the gospel motives of future reward
and punishment, &c. these are to him evident marks that the
Spirit of God works with his spirit; he is encouraged to have
confidence towards to God ; and this confidence spurs him on to
greater watchfulness and earnestness, if he does not dwell too
long upon it. When, on the other hand, he finds many un
modified desires, and many failings in his best words and actions,
with some gross neglects perhaps, or even some commissions, this
terrifies and alarms him ; adds wings to his prayers, and zeal to
his endeavours. And it is happy for us, in this world of temp
tations, to be thus kept between hope and fear. Not but that
very good persons, who have been constant and earnest for a long
course of time, who have passed through severe trials, who live,
as the first Christians did, in perpetual apprehensions of sufferings
and death, or who, like their blessed Lord and Master, go about
doing good, and preaching the gospel to the poor, may be always
favoured with the sight of the promised land; and several of
these may date the rise of this happy state from some remarkable
point in their lives. But there is great danger of being imposed
upon here by the wonderful subtlety of the natural operations of
the mind. When a man begins to fancy that an inward sentiment,
much or long desired by him, such as the assurance of his sal
vation, has happened or will happen to him, this imposes upon
his memory by imperceptible degrees in one case; and begets the
sentiment itself, the assurance, in the other. Such a factitious
assurance can therefore be no evidence for itself. It is a mental
affection, of the same kind with the rest; and can less be depended
upon, as a test, than plain actions. Mere ideas, and internal
feelings, must be less certain marks of the prevailing, permanent
disposition of our hearts, than the tenor of our actions, which is
the natural and necessary fruit of it. And we ought to judge of
ourselves by our fruits, as well as of those who pretend to be
prophets. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, nor an evil
tree good fruit. Here we may lay our foundation, as upon a
rock. When indeed this persuasion, or assurance, is the result
of an earnest impartial examination into our fruits, and of our
conscience not condemning us, it may reasonably afford confidence
p p 2
580 THE TERMS OF SALVATION.
towards God, because our conscience was intended by God to
inform us of our state; as appears both from Scripture and
reason. But a constant absolute assurance, *. e. appearance
thereof, (for it can be no more, till we have escaped all the
hazards of this life, and our Judge has passed his sentence upon
us in another,) may be dangerous even to good men, and render
them by insensible degrees secure, neglectful of necessary duties,
and self-conceited. However, since a hope, free from all anxious
fears, seems to be often given by God as a comfort in great trials,
and a reward for behaving well under such, and persevering
faithfully, as I observed just now; we have the greatest encou
ragement to do and to suffer every thing that God requires of us, .
to be fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, to, watch and pray
always, &c. since we may expect to obtain this hope thereby, and
in it an hundred fold for all that we give up in this world, as
well as everlasting life in the world to come.
And though it be proper to comfort religious persons under
bodily or mental disorders, which fill their minds with dispropor
tionate fears and scruples, by informing them, that a solicitude
about our salvation is the sure means of obtaining it ; that this
affliction is to be endured with patience, and confidence in God,
as much as any other ; that it is attended with the same advan
tages as common afflictions, and also with some peculiar to itself,
such as putting us upon a thorough examination of our hearts ;
and that this severe chastening in the present world is the
strongest mark that we are loved by God, and therefore should
be saved in the world to come : yet the same persons are to be
admonished, that a great degree of fearfulness and scrupulosity
often proceeds from some self-deceit and prevarication at the
bottom. There is probably some secret sin, some sin that cir
cumvents them more easily and frequently than the rest, of
which they may not perhaps be fully aware, and yet about which
they have great suspicions and checks, if they would hearken to
them fully and fairly. They ought therefore, with all earnestness
and honesty, to desire God to try and examine them, and to seek
the ground of their hearts ; and, in consequence of this prayer,
to set about it themselves in the presence of God. And if this
be necessary for the scrupulous and feeble-minded, even for the
children of God, how much more for the careless, voluptuous,
profane world ! How ought they to be alarmed and exhorted to
hear the voice of. wisdom in the present life, during the accepted
time, lest fear come upon them as desolation, and destruction as a
whirlwind !
Lastly, We may observe, that as undue confidence leads to
security, and consequently to such sins as destroy this confidence,
unless we be so unhappy as to be able to recall the internal feel
ing of this confidence without sufficient contrition; and as the
disproportionate fearfulness, which is its opposite, begets vigilance,
and thus destroys itself also ; whence persons in the progress of
THE FINAL HAPPINESS OF ALL MANKIND. 581
a religious course are often passing from one extreme to another ;
so it is difficult for serious persons, in thinking or speaking about
the terms of salvation, to rest in any particular point : they are
always apt to qualify the last decision, whatever it be, either with
some alarming caution, or comfortable suggestion, lest they should
mislead themselves or others. This is part of that obscurity and
uncertainty, which is our chief guard and security in this state
of probation, and the daily bread of our souls. Let me once
more add this necessary observation ; viz. that future eternal
happiness is of infinitely more weight than present comfort ; and
therefore that we ought to labour infinitely more after purity and
perfection, than even after spiritual delights. We are only upon
our journey through the wilderness to the land of Canaan ; and,
as we cannot want manna from day to day for our support, it is
of little concernment, whether we have more delicious food.
Let us therefore hunger and thirst after righteousness itself ;
that so we may first be Jilled with it, and afterwards, in due
time, may obtain that eternal weight of glory, which will be the
reward of it.
SECT. V.
THE FINAL HAPPINESS OF ALL MANKIND IN SOME DISTANT
FUTURE STATE.
Prop. XCIV.—It is probable from Reason, that all Mankind will
be made ultimately happy.
For, first, It has been observed all along in the course of this
work, that all the evils that befall either body or mind in this
state, have a tendency to improve one or both. If they fail of
producing a peculiar, appropriated, intermediate good effect, they
must, however, necessarily contribute to the annihilation of that
self, carnal or spiritual, gross or refined, which is an insuperable
bar to our happiness in the pure love of God, and of his works.
Now, if we reason at all concerning a future state, it must be
from analogies taken from this; and that we are allowed to
reason, that we are able to do it with some justness, concerning
a future state, will appear from the great coincidence of the fore
going natural arguments for a future state, and for the rewards
and punishments of it, with what the Scriptures have delivered
upon the same heads ; also because a similar kind of reasoning in
respect of the future states, which succeed in order from infancy
582 THE FINAL HAPPINESS .
to old age, is found to be just, and to afford many useful direc
tions and predictions. We ought therefore to judge, that the
evils of a future state will have the same tendency, and final
cause, as those of this life, viz. to meliorate and perfect our
natures, and to prepare them for ultimate unlimited happiness in
the love of God, and of his works.
Secondly, The generation of benevolence, by the natural and
necessary tendency of our frames, is a strong argument for the
ultimate happiness of all mankind. It is inconsistent to suppose,
that God should thus compel us to learn universal unlimited
benevolence ; and then not provide food for it. And both this
and the foregoing argument seem conclusive, though we should
not take in the divine benevolence. They are both supported
by the analogy and uniformity apparent in the creation, by the
mutual adaptations and correspondences of things existing at
different times, and in different places : but they receive much
additional force from the consideration of the goodness of God,
if that be first proved by other evidences ; as they are themselves
the strongest evidences for it, when taken in a contrary order of
reasoning.
And as the benevolence of one part of the creation is thus an
argument for the happiness of the other ; so, since benevolence
is itself happiness, a tendency to learn it in any being is also an
argument for his own happiness. And, upon the whole, since
God has commanded his beloved sons, the good, to love and
compassionate every being that comes within their cognizance,
by the voice of their natures speaking within them, we cannot
suppose that these his favourites (to speak according to present
appearances, and our necessary conceptions, which with this
caution is justifiable) will fail oftheir proper reward in the grati
fication of this their benevolence.
Thirdly, The infinite goodness of God is an argument for the
ultimate happiness of all mankind. This appears without any
particular discussion of this attribute. But it may not be amiss
for the reader just to review the evidences for it above exhi
bited, and their tendency to prove the ultimate happiness of all
God's creatures.
Fourthly, The infinite happiness and perfection of God is an
argument for, and, as it were, a pledge of, the ultimate happiness
and perfection of all his creatures. For these attributes, being
infinite, must bear down all opposition from the quarters of
misery and imperfection. And this argument will be much
stronger, if we suppose (with reverence be it spoken !) any inti
mate union between God and his creatures ; and that, as the
happiness of the creatures arises from their love and worship of
God, so the happiness of God consists, shews itself, &c. (for one
does not know how to express this properly) in love and bene
ficence to the creatures. As God is present every where, knows
and perceives every thing, he may also, in a way infinitely
OF ALL MANKIND. 583
superior to our comprehension, feel every where for all his
creatures. Now, according to this, it would seem to us, that all
must be brought to ultimate infinite happiness, which is, in his
eye, present infinite happiness.
Fifthly, The impartiality of God, in respect of all his creatures,
seems to argue, that, if one be made infinitely happy upon the
balance, all will be made so. That benevolence, which is infinite,
must be impartial also; must look upon all individuals, and all
degrees of happiness, with an equal eye ; must stand in a relation
of indifference to them all. Now this is really so, if we admit
the third of the foregoing suppositions concerning the divine
benevolence. If all individuals be at last infinitely happy upon
the balance, they are so at present in the eye of God, i. e. he is
perfectly impartial to all his creatures. And thus every inter
mediate finite degree of misery, how great soever, may be con
sistent with the impartiality of God. But to suppose, before
the creatures A and B existed, that A was made bv God to be
eternally happy, and B made to be eternally miserable, seems as
irreconcileable to God's impartiality, as to his benevolence. That
both should be made for eternal and infinite happiness, one to
enjoy it in one way, the other in another, one by passing through
much pain, the other by passing through little or perhaps none,
one by an acceleration in one period of his existence, the other
in another, &c. &c. is perfectly consistent with God's impartiality;
for, the happiness of each being infinite at present in the eye of
God, his eye must regard them equally. And even in the eye of
finite beings, if A's happiness seem less than B's in one respect,
because A passes through more pain, it may seem greater in
another, because he arrives at greater degrees of it in less time.
But this is all appearance. Different finite beings form different
judgments according to their different experiences, and ways of
reasoning. Who, therefore, shall be made the standard? Not
the inferior orders certainly. And if the superior, we shall not
be able to rest, till we conclude that all that appears to all finite
beings is false and delusive, and that the judgment of the infinite
Being is the only true real judgment. Now I have endeavoured
to shew, according to the method of ultimate ratios, how, allow
ing the third supposition concerning the divine goodness, all
individuals are equally happy in the eye of God. And thus the
impartiality of God is vindicated, according to the truth and
reality of things, in the judgment of his own infinite under
standing.
Sixthly, All the foregoing reasoning seems to be somewhat
more short and clear upon the hypothesis of mechanism ; but it
is not invalidated by that of free-will. For free-will must be
considered as the production of infinite power, and therefore as
being suited to the rest of the divine attributes, his benevolence,
happiness, and impartiality, and to all the methods by which God
conducts men to benevolence and happiness. Or, if the hypo
584 THE FINAL HAPPINESS
thesis of free-will be a bar to the foregoing reasonings in their
full extent, it cannot, however, account for misery upon the
whole, much less for eternal misery. To suppose that God wills
and desires the happiness of all his creatures, and yet that he has
given them a power, by which many of them will, in fact, make
themselves eternally miserable, also that he foresees this in
general, and even in each particular case, is either to suppose
God under some fatal necessity of giving such a power ; or else
to take away his unlimited benevolence in reality, after that it
has been allowed in words. If therefore God has given men free
will in such a measure, as that they may bring upon themselves
finite misery thereby in the present state, or in any future inter
mediate one ; we must, however, suppose it to be so restrained,
as that it shall not occasion infinite and eternal misery. The
cause of the cause is also the cause of the thing caused ; which is
surely as evident in the application of it to the present subject,
as in any other instance, where it can be applied.
Seventhly, There are many obvious and undeniable arguments,
taken from the relative attributes of God, which first exclude the
eternal misery of his creatures, and then establish their ultimate
happiness by necessary, or, at least, by probable consequence.
Thus the whole tenor of nature represents God to us as our
Creator, Preserver, Governor, Friend, and Father. All ages and
nations have fallen into this language; and it is verified every
day by the wonderful beauty, harmony, and beneficence, mani
fested in the works of the creation, and particularly in the ex
quisite make of our bodies and minds. Shall then a Creator,
who is a friend and father, create for eternal infinite misery ?
Can any intermediate suppositions, free-will, perverseness, repro-
bateness, &c. reconcile and unite extremes so utterly discordant ?
Will he preserve an existence, which ceases to afford happiness,
and can now only produce misery without end ? Will not the
Governor and Judge of all the earth do right? In whatever
manner sin be estimated, it must be finite, because it is the work
of a finite mind, of finite principles and passions. To suppose
therefore a sinner to be absolutely condemned to infinite irre
versible misery, on account of the finite sins of this life, seems
most highly injurious to the justice of God. And to say, that
this infinite irreversible misery is not merely the consequence of
the sins of this life, but also of those to be committed in another,
is to give a power of repenting, and becoming virtuous, as well
as of sinning in another life; whence the sentence might be
reversed, contrary to the supposition.
The worst man of those who go to heaven, and the best of
those who go to hell, seem to us, if we will reason upon these
subjects, as we do upon others, to differ but by an infinitesimal
difference, as one may say; and, yet the reward of the first being
eternal, however small in each finite portion of time, must at last
become infinite in magnitude ; and the punishment of the last in
OF ALL MANKIND. 585
like manner. There would therefore be a double infinite differ
ence in the reward and punishment, where the virtue and vice,
causing these respectively, have only an infinitely small one.
To say that, in such cases, the rewards and punishments of
another life may be so conducted by a mixture of happiness and
misery in each, as that the balance shall not become ultimately
infinite in either, is to take away all hopes and fears relating to
a future state ; i. e. morally and practically to take away the
state itself.
Again, Can it be supposed, that an infinitely merciful Father
will cast off" his son utterly, and doom him to eternal misery,
without farther trials than what this life affords ? We see
numberless instances of persons at present abandoned to vice,
who yet, according to all probable appearances, might be re
formed by a proper mixture of correction, instruction, hope, and
fear. And what man is neither able nor willing to do, may and
must, as should seem, be both possible to God, and actually effected
by him. He must have future discipline of a severer kind for those
whom the chastisements of this life did not bring to themselves.
Yet still they will all be fatherly chastisements, intended to
amend and perfect, not to be final and vindictive. That the
bulk of sinners are not utterly incorrigible, even common obser
vation shews ; but the history of association makes it still more
evident ; and it seems very repugnant to analogy to suppose that
any sinners, even the very worst that ever lived, should be so,
should be hardened beyond the reach of all suffering, of all
selfishness, hope, fear, good-will, gratitude, &c. For we are all
alike in kind,, and do not differ greatly in degree here. We
have each of us passions of all sorts, and lie open to influences of
all sorts ; so as that the persons A and B, in whatever different
proportions their intellectual affections now exist, may, by a
suitable set of impressions, become hereafter alike. -
These and many such like reasonings must occur to attentive
persons upon this subject, so as to make it highly unsuitable to
the benevolence of the Deity, or to the relations which he bears
to us, according to the mere light of nature, that infinite irre
versible misery, to commence at death, should be the punishment
of the sins of this life. And, by pursuing this method of rea
soning, we shall be led first to exclude misery upon the balance,
and then to hope for the ultimate unlimited happiness of all
mankind.
Prop. XCV.—It is probable from the Scriptures, that all Man
kind will be made ultimately happy.
In considering the doctrine of the Scriptures upon this head,
it will first be requisite to shew, that the texts alleged to prove
the absolutely eternal and irreversible misery of the wicked in
another life may justly be interpreted in a different sense.
586 THE FINAL HAPPINESS
Now the Greek words translated eternal, everlasting, and for
ever, in the New Testament, do not by derivation stand for an
absolute eternity, neither are they always used in this sense in
the New Testament, the Septuagint, or pagan authors. The
same may be said of the corresponding Hebrew words. It is
true, indeed, that they generally represent a long duration ; and
this is sometimes limited by the context, or nature of the sub
ject, sometimes not. Now, according to this interpretation, the
punishments of the wicked will be of great duration, suppose of
one or more long ages or dispensations. But one might rather
conclude from the words of the original, if their derivation be
considered, that they will end at the expiration of some such
long period, than that they will be absolutely eternal.
If it be said, that the eternity of God is expressed by the
same words ; I answer, that here the nature of the subject gives
a sense to the words, whereof they are otherwise incapable. It
may be urged in like manner, that the duration of future re
wards is expressed by the same words; but then the abso
lute eternity of this duration is not perhaps deducible at all
from these or any other words. We must in this entirely refer
ourselves to the bounty and benevolence of our Creator, and
depend upon him for all our expectations. Besides, the nature
of the subject differs widely here. To suppose the misery of
the wicked to be, in every respect, equal and parallel to the
happiness of the good, is quite contrary to the general tenor of
the Scriptures; and looks like setting up the Manichean doc
trine of two opposite infinite principles, a doctrine every where
condemned in effect, though not in express words, both by the
Old and New Testament. We may add, that the happiness of
the good is also denoted in Scripture by incorruption, indisso
lubility, &c. as well as by the words applied to the punishments
of the wicked.
The words of our Saviour, Where' their worm dieth not, and
their fire is not quenched, are thought by some to be a strong
argument for the absolute eternity of future punishment. But
as these words are taken from Isaiah, and allude to the punish
ment of the malefactors, whose carcases were suffered to rot
upon the ground, or burnt in the valley of Hinnom, they appear
to be too popular and figurative to justify such an interpretation.
And yet they seem plainly intended to declare the very long
duration of future punishment; and that, as the worms, which
feed upon a putrified body, or the fire, which burns it, in this
world, do themselves come to a certain and known period, the
misery of another world, and the fire of hell, will have no definite
one, but continue till they have consumed the sin and guilt which
feed them. In this way of interpretation, the passage under con
sideration would agree with that concerning the payment of the
last farthing.
Our Saviour's expression concerning Judas, viz. That it had
OF ALL MANKIND. 587
been good for him that he had not been born, cannot indeed be
alleged for the proof of the eternity of future punishment; but
it seems to oppose the supposition of the ultimate happiness of
all. However, this expression may be popular and proverbial;
or it may perhaps denote, that his last agonies, or his sufferings
in another world should outweigh all his preceding happiness, or
some way admit of an interpretation consistent with the propo
sition under consideration. For it does not appear to be suf
ficiently clear and precise for an absolute disproof of it. We
may add, that as every man, who at his death falls short of the
terms of salvation, whatever these be, crucifies the Son of God
afresh, according to the language of St. Paul ; so he will have
reason, according to his then necessary conceptions, to wish with
Judas that he had never been born. 0 that they were wise, that
they understood this, that they would consider their latter end !
Now, as the words of the New Testament do not necessarily
infer the absolute eternity of punishment ; so the general tenor
of reasoning there used, with numberless passages both of the Old
and New Testaments, concerning the mercy of God, his readi
ness to forgive, &c. favour the contrary opinion. And this is a
farther reason for interpreting these texts of an indefinitely long
duration only ; and that especially if the small number of them,
and the infinite importance of the doctrine, which they are
supposed to contain, be also taken into consideration.
To the same purpose we may observe, that there is nothing in
all St. Paul's Epistles, from whence the absolute eternity of
future punishment can be at all inferred, except the words
everlasting destruction from the presence ofourLord, 2 Thess. i. 9 ;
though the Epistles to the Romans and Hebrews are both of
them general summaries of the Christian religion, and though he
speaks in both of future punishment. In the Epistle to the
Romans, he says, tribulation and anguish (not eternal tribulation)
shall be upon every soul of man that doeth evil; also that the
wages of sin is death, not eternal death, or eternal punishment ;
whereas the gift of God is eternal life. In the Epistle to the
Hebrews, he asks, of how much sorer punishment than temporal
death an apostate is to be thought worthy ? Which seems not
likely for him to do, had he believed it eternal. In like manner,
there is nothing of this kind in St. Luke's Gospel, or his Acts of
the Apostles, in St. John's Gospel, or his Epistles, or in the
Epistle of St. James, St. Peter, or St. Jude. And yet good
men now, who believe the eternity of punishment, scarce ever
fail to insist upon it most earnestly in their discourses and ex
hortations. For, if it be a doctrine of the Christian religion, it
is so essential a one, as that it could not have been omitted
by any inspired writer, nor fail to have been declared in the most
express terms, which certainly cannot be said of any of the texts
alleged to prove the eternity of punishment. The words translated
eternal, and for ever, must have been ambigious to the Jews,
588 THE FINAL HAPPINESS
i.e. to the first Christians; and the figurative expression, their
worm dielh not, &c. is far less determinate than many phrases,
which our Saviour might have chosen, had it been his intention
to denounce absolutely eternal misery.
To this we may add, that it does not appear from the writings
of the most ancient fathers, that they put such a construction
upon the words of the New Testament ; and the omission of this
doctrine in the ancient creeds shews, that it was no original doc
trine, or not thought essential ; which yet could not be, if it was
believed ; or that many eminent persons for some centuries were
of a contrary opinion. And indeed the doctrine of purgatory, as
now taught by the papists, seems to be a corruption of a genuine
doctrine held by the ancient fathers concerning a purifying fire.
It may perhaps be, that the absolute eternity of punishment
was not received till after the introduction of metaphysical
subtleties relating to time, eternity, &c. and the ways of express
ing these ; i. e. not till after the pagan philosophy, and vain
deceit, had mixed itself with, and corrupted Christianity.
Still farther, It does by no means appear to be consonant to
the nature of the Christian religion to interpret the New Testa
ment in a strict literal manner, or adhere to phrases in opposition
to the general tenor of it. Our Saviour in many places appeals
to the natural equitable judgments of his auditors. The evan
gelists and apostles all enter into the reasons of things; the
gospels are short memoirs ; the epistles were written to friends,
and new converts ;*and the nature of such writings must be very
different from that of a precise determinate law, such as that of
Moses, or the civil law of any country. And indeed herein lies
one material difference between the rigid Jewish dispensation,
and the Christian, which last is called by St. James the perfect
law of liberty. From all which it follows, that we are rather to
follow the general tenor, than to adhere to particular expressions.
And this will appear still more reasonable, when it is considered,
that we are yet but novices in the language of the Old and New
Testaments, the relations which they bear to each other, and
their declarations concerning future events.
Another argument against interpreting the passages above
referred to, in the sense of absolutely eternal misery, is, that
there are many other passages, whose strict and literal sense is
contrary thereto. And in such a case it seems, that the infinite
goodness of God, so many ways declared in the Scriptures, must
soon turn the scale. For the Scriptures must be made consistent
with themselves; and the veracity and goodness of God seem
much rather to oblige him to perform a promise, than to execute
a threatening. I will mention a few passages, some of which it
may be observed even establish the contrary doctrine of the
ultimate happiness of all mankind.
Thus the most natural, as well as the most strict and literal
sense of the words, as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be
OF ALL MANKIND. 589
made alive, is the ultimate happiness of all the children of Adam,
of all mankind. God's mercy is declared to endure for ever ;
and he is said not to keep his anger for ever: which expressions,
in their first and most obvious sense, are quite inconsistent with
the absolute eternity of punishment. Our Saviour says, that the
person who is not reconciled to his brother, shall not be dis
charged till he has paid the last farthing ; which intimates, that
there is a time when he will be discharged. In like manner the
debtor, who owed his lord ten thousand talents, is delivered over
to the tormentors, till he pay these. To say that he can never
pay them, because as we have all our faculties from God, so we
can merit nothing from God, is to embrace the mechanical hypo
thesis, which, in the judgment of all, must be utterly inconsistent
with the eternity of punishment. For, if a man cannot have
merit, he cannot have demerit. To suppose a creature any way
brought into being upon such terms as to be onJy capable of
demerit, seems most highly injurious to the attributes of God,
by whatever means this be effected, the fall of our first parents,
or any other.
Again, God in judgment remembers mercy. This is said in
general; and therefore it ought not to be confined to the judg
ments of this world. And to do so, when all the pleasures and
pains of this world are every where in the New Testament de
clared unworthy of our regard in comparison of those of another,
is highly unsuitable to the goodness of God. But indeed this
cannot be done without departing from the most obvious literal
sense. The same may be said of the passages, God is not extreme
to mark what is done amiss ; that he is loving to every man ; that
his mercy, his tender mercy, is over all his works, Sfc. Can it
be said with any appearance of truth, that God will give an
infinite overbalance of misery to those beings whom he loves ?
It may very well be supposed, that though the punishments
of a future state be finite ; yet this should not be declared in so
many words in the Scriptures. For such a procedure would be
analogous to the gradual opening of all God's dispensations of
mercy. Mankind in their infant state were not able to receive
such kind of nourishment ; neither are all perhaps yet able.
But, if future punishments be absolutely eternal, it is hard to
conceive why this should not have been declared in the most
express terms, and in many places of Scripture ; also how there
should be so many passages there, which are apparently incon
sistent therewith.
There remains one argument more, and of great weight in my
opinion, against interpreting any passages of Scripture so as to
denounce absolutely eternal misery. This is, the declarations of
the Scriptures concerning the smallness of the number of the
elect, and the great difficulty of entering in at the strait gate,
already taken notice of. To suppose future punishments to be
absolutely eternal, is to suppose that the Christian dispensation
590 THE FINAL HAPPINESS
condemns far the greater part of mankind to infinite misery upon
the balance, whilst yet it is every where declared to be a dispen
sation of mercy, to be glory to God, and good-will to men ; which
is a great apparent inconsistency. And indeed, unless the doc
trine of absolutely eternal punishment be taken away, it seems
impracticable to convince the world of the great purity and per
fection required by the gospel in order to our entrance into the
kingdom of heaven. If there be no punishment in another state,
besides what is absolutely eternal, men of very low degrees of
virtue will hope to escape this,, and consequently to escape with
impunity : whereas, if there be a purging fire, into which all the
wicked are to be cast, to remain and suffer there according to
their demerits, far beyond what men generally suffer in this life;
and if there be only few that are admitted to happiness after the
expiration of this life, without such farther purification ; what
vigour and earnestness should we use to escape so great a punish
ment, and to be of the happy number of those whose names are
written in the book of life !
This may suffice to shew, that the absolute eternity of future
punishment cannot be concluded from the Scriptures. We are
next to inquire what evidences they afford for the ultimate
happiness of all mankind. I have already mentioned some pas
sages which favour this doctrine ; but I intend now to propose
two arguments of a more general nature.
First, then, It may be observed, That the Scriptures give a
sanction to most of the foregoing arguments, taken from the light
of nature, for this doctrine, by reasoning in the same manner.
Thus the punishments of the Jews and others are represented as
chastisements, i. e. as evils tending to produce a good greater
than themselves. Our benevolence to our children is represented
by Christ as an argument of the infinitely greater benevolence
of God our Heavenly Father. God promises to make Abraham
happy by making his posterity happy, and them happy by
making them the instruments of happiness to all the nations of
the earth (which they are still to be probably in a much more
ample manner than they have aver yet been.) Now this shews,
that the happiness, intended for us all, is the gratification of our
benevolence. The goodness of God is every where represented
as prevailing over his severity; he remembers good actions to
thousands of generations, and punishes evil ones only to the third
and fourth. Not a sparrow is forgotten before him ; he giveth
to all their meat in due season ; pities us as a father does his
children; and sets our sins as far from us, as heaven is from
earth, &c. All which kind of language surely implies both in
finite mercy in the forgiveness of sin, and infinite love in ad
vancing his purified children. We are all the offspring of God,
and, by consequence, agreeably to other phrases, are heirs of all
things, heirs of God, and co-heirs with Christ, members of the
mystical body of Christ, and of each other, i. e. we are all par-
OF ALL MANKIND. 591
takers of the happiness of God, through his bounty and mercy.
God is the God of the Gentiles, as well as of the Jews ; and has
concluded them all in unbelief, only that he might have mercy
upon all. And, in general, all the arguments for the ultimate
happiness of all mankind, taken from the relations we bear
to God, as our Creator, Preserver, Governor, Father, Friend,
and God, are abundantly attested by the Scriptures.
Secondly, There are in the Scriptures some arguments for the
ultimate restoration and happiness of all mankind, which now
seem sufficiently full and strong, and which yet could not be
understood in former ages ; at least we see, that, in fact, they
were not. Of this kind is the history of the Jewish state, with
the prophecies relating thereto. For we may observe, that,
according to the Scriptures, the body politic of the Jews must be
made flourishing and happy, whether they will or no, by the
severities which God inflicts upon them. Now the Jewish state,
as has been already remarked, appears to be a type of each indi
vidual in particular, on one hand ; and of mankind in general, on
the other.
Thus, also, it is foretold that Christ will subdue all things to
himself. But subjection to Christ, according to the figurative
prophetic style of the Scriptures, is happiness, not merely sub
jection by compulsion, like that to an earthly conqueror. Agree
ably to this, all things are to be gathered together in one in
Christ, both those which are in heaven, and those on earth : and
St. John saw every creature in heaven, in earth, under the earth,
and in the sea, and all that were in them, praising God.
The prayer of faith can remove mountains; all things are
possible to it ; and, if we could suppose all men defective in this
article, in praying with faith for the ultimate happiness of man
kind, surely our Saviour must do this ; his prayer for his crucifiers
cannot surely fail to obtain pardon and happiness for them.
We are commanded to love God with our whole powers, to be
joyful in him, to praise him evermore, not only for his goodness
to us, but also for that to all the children of men. But such love
and joy, to be unbounded, pre-suppose unbounded goodness in
God, to be manifested to all mankind in due time ; else there
would be some men, on whose accounts we could not rejoice in
God. At the same time, the delay of this manifestation of God's
goodness, with the severity exercised towards particulars, in their
progress to happiness, beget submission, resignation, fear and
trembling, in us, till at last we come to that perfect love that
casts out fear.
It may perhaps be, that the writers of the Old and New Tes
taments did not see the full meaning of the glorious declarations,
which the Holy Spirit has delivered to us by their means ; just
as Daniel, and the other prophets, were ignorant of the full and
precise import of their prophecies relating to Christ. Or perhaps
they did ; but thought it expedient, or were commanded, not to
592 THE FINAL HAPPINESS
be more explicit. The Christian religion, in converting the
various pagan nations of the world, was to be corrupted by them;
and the superstitious fear of God, which is one of these corrup
tions, may have been necessary hitherto on account of the rest.
But now the corruptions of the true religion begin to be disco
vered, and removed, by the earnest endeavours of good men of
all nations and sects, in these latter times, by their comparing
spiritual things with spiritual.
How far the brute creation is concerned in the redemption bv
Christ, may be doubted ; and it does not seem to be much or
immediately our business to inquire, as no relative duty depends
thereon. However, their fall with Adam, the covenant made
with them after the deluge, their serving as sacrifices for the sins
of men, and as types and emblems in the prophecies, their being
commanded to praise God (for every thing that hath breath is
thus commanded, as well as the Gentiles,) seem to intimate that
there is mercy in store for them also, more than we may expect,
to be revealed in due time. The Jews considered the Gentiles
as dogs in comparison of themselves. And the brute creatures
appear by the foregoing history of association to differ from us in
degree, rather than in kind.
It may be objected here, that, if this opinion of the ultimate
happiness of all mankind be true, it is not, however, proper to
publish it. Men are very wicked, notwithstanding the fear of
eternal punishment ; and therefore will probably be more so, if
that fear be removed, and a hope given to the most wicked of
attaining everlasting happiness ultimately. I answer, first, That
this opinion is already published so far, that very few irreligious
persons can be supposed to believe the contrary much longer : or,
if they do believe absolutely eternal punishment to be the doc
trine of the Scriptures, they will be much induced thereby to
reject revealed religion itself. It seems therefore to be now a
proper time to inquire candidly and impartially into the truth.
The world abounds so much with writers, that the mere opinion
of a single one cannot be supposed to have any great weight.
The arguments produced will themselves be examined, and a
person can now do little more than bring things to view for the
judgment of others. The number of teachers in all arts and
sciences is so great, that no one amongst them can or ought to
have followers, unless as far as he follows truth.
But, secondly, It does not seem that even the motives of fear
are lessened to considerate persons, by supposing the fire of hell
to be only a purifying one. For it is clear from the Scriptures,
that the punishment will be very dreadful and durable. We can
set no bounds either to the degree or duration of it. They are
therefore practically infinite.
Thirdly, The motives of love are infinitely enhanced by sup
posing the ultimate unlimited happiness of all. This takes off the
charge of enthusiasm from that noble expression of some mystical
CONCLUSION. .593
writers, in which they resign themselves entirely to God, both for
time and eternity. This makes us embrace even the most
wicked with the most cordial, tender, humble affection. We
pity them at present, as vessels of wrath ; yet live in certain
hopes of rejoicing with them at last ; labour to bring this to pass,
and to hasten it ; and consider, that every thing is good, and pure,
and perfect, in the sight of God.
CONCLUSION.
I have now gone through with my Observations on the Frame,
Duty, and Expectations of Man, finishing them with the doc
trine of ultimate unlimited happiness to all. This doctrine, if it
be true, ought at once to dispel all gloominess, anxiety, and
sorrow, from our hearts ; and raise them to the highest pitch of
love, adoration, and gratitude towards God, our most bountiful
Creator, and merciful Father, and the inexhaustible source of all
happiness and perfection. Here self-interest, benevolence, and
piety, all concur to move and exalt our affections. How happy
in himself, how benevolent to others, and how thankful to God,
ought that man to be, who believes both himself and others born
to an infinite expectation ! Since God has bid us rejoice, what
can make us sorrowful ? Since he has created us for happiness,
what misery can we fear ? If we be really intended for ultimate
unlimited happiness, it is no matter to a truly resigned person,
when, or where, or how. Nay, could any of us fully conceive,
and be duly influenced by, this glorious expectation, this infinite
balance in our favour, it would be sufficient to deprive all present
evils of their sting and bitterness. It would be a sufficient
answer to the nodtv to kojcov, to all our difficulties and anxieties
from the folly, vice, and misery which we experience in ourselves,
and see in others, to say, that they will all end in unbounded
knowledge, virtue, and happiness ; and that the progress of every
individual in his passage through an eternal life is from imperfect
to perfect, particular to general, less to greater, finite to infinite,
and from the creature to the Creator.
But alas ! this is chiefly speculation, and must be to the bulk
of mankind. Whilst we continue entangled in the fetters of sin,
we cannot enjoy the glorious liberty and privileges of the children
of God. We cannot exalt ourselves to heaven, and make a right
estimate of things, from the true point of view, till we get clear
Q Q
594 CONCLUSION.
of the attraction, and magic influences, of the earth. Whence it
follows, that this doctrine, however great and glorious in itself,
in the eye of a being sufficiently advanced in purity and compre
hension, must be to us like the book given to St. John, bitter in
the belly, though sweet in the mouth. The first general view
cannot but charm us, however grovelling and corrupt our minds
may be. But when we begin to digest it, when, after mature
deliberation, we come to see its several evidences, connexions,
and consequences, our self-interest, our benevolence, and our
piety, in proportion to their strength and purity, will all rise up,
and join their forces, and alarm us to the utmost extent of our
faculties. When we consider the purity required of those, who
are so happy as to escape the second death, and the purifying
lake of fire, whose smoke ascendeth up for ever and ever, *. e.
for ages of ages, we cannot but be in pain for ourselves, and
work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. When we
view the sin and wickedness with which the world every where
abounds, our hearts cannot but melt with compassion for others,
for the tortures that are prepared for them, after the expiration
of this life, in order to fit them for pure and spiritual happiness,
to burn out the stains of sensuality and self-love, and exalt
them to the unbounded love of God, and his works. When
we consider farther, that God has mercy on whom he will,
and hardens whom he will, and that we, with all our pleasures
and pains, are absolute nothings in comparison of him, we must,
like St. John, again fall down at his feet dead with astonish
ment. And yet we need not fear; from the instant that we
thus humble ourselves, he will lay his hand upon us and exalt
us; he has the keys of death and hell, in every possible sense
of those words.
There is also another consideration, which, though of less
moment than the foregoing, is yet abundantly sufficient to move
the compassion of the good, and alarm the fears of the wicked;
I mean the temporal evils and woes, which will probably fall
upon the nominally christian states of these western parts, the
christian Babylon, before the great revolution predicted in the
Scriptures, before the kingdoms of this world become the king
doms of our Lord, and of his Christ. These evils will be brought
upon us by our excess of wickedness, just as the deluge was upon
the old world, and the destruction of Sodom upon its lewd inha
bitants, through theirs; they may also be somewhat delayed, or
alleviated, by reformations public or private, even partial and
temporary ones. I will therefore make a few short remarks
concerning such things, as seem more particularly to call for the
attention of the present christian world ; at least of those good
Philadelphians, who are desirous to keep themselves and others
from that hour of temptation, which is coming upon us all. My
remarks must be supposed to relate chiefly to this kingdom ; to
be suggested by what occurs in it ; and to be calculated, as far as
CONCLUSION. 595
my poor, but sincere and earnest endeavours can have any weight,
to stein for a while that torrent of vice and impiety, which seem
ready to swallow us up, and, if possible, to protract the life of
the body politic. But I presume, that the resemblance between
all the states of Christendom is so great in all the points here
considered, that the practical consequences are the same upon the
whole.
There are six. things, which seem more especially to threaten
ruin and dissolution to the present states of Christendom.
First, The great growth of atheism and infidelity, particularly
amongst the governing part of these states.
Secondly, The open and abandoned lewdness, to which great
numbers of both sexes, especially in the high ranks of life, have
given themselves up.
Thirdly, The sordid and avowed self-interest, which is almost
the sole motive of action in those who are concerned in the
administration of public affairs.
Fourthly, The licentiousness and contempt of every kind of
authority, divine and human, which is so notorious in inferiors of
alll ranks.
Fifthly, The great worldly-mindedness of the clergy, and their
gross neglects in the discharge of their proper functions.
Sixthly, The carelessness and infatuation of parents and
magistrates with respect to the education of youth, and the con
sequent early corruption of the rising generation.
All these things have evident mutual connexions and influ
ences ; and, as they all seem likely to increase from time to time,
so it can scarce be doubted by a considerate man, whether he be
a religious one or no, but that they will, sooner or later, bring on
a total dissolution of all the forms of government, that subsist at
present in the christian countries of Europe. I will note down
some of the principal facts of each kind, and shew their utter
inconsistency with the welfare of a body politic, and their neces
sary tendency to anarchy and confusion.
I begin with the atheism and infidelity which prevail so much
among the governing part of these western kingdoms. That
infidelity prevails, especially in these kingdoms, will readily be
acknowledged by all. But the same persons, who treat the
Christian religion, and its advocates, with so much scorn, will
probably, some of them at least, profess a regard to natural reli
gion ; and it may seem hard to question their sincerity. How
ever, as far as has occurred to my observation, these persons
either deceive themselves, or attempt to deceive others, in this.
There appears in them no love or fear of God, no confidence in
him, no delight in meditating upon him, in praying to him, or
praising him, no hope or joy in a future state. Their hearts and
treasures are upon this earth, upon sensual pleasures, or vain
amusements, perhaps of philosophy or philology, pursued to pass
the time, upon honour or riches. And indeed there are the
596 CONCLUSION.
same objections, in general, to natural religion as to revealed, and
no stronger evidences for it. On the contrary, the historical and
moral evidences for the general truth of the Scriptures, which
these persons deny, are more convincing and satisfactory to
philosophical as well as to vulgar capacities, than the arguments
that are usually brought to prove the existence and attributes of
God, his Providence, or a future state : not but that these last
are abundantly sufficient to satisfy an earnest and impartial
inquirer.
If now there really be a God, who is our natural and moral
governor, and who expects that we should regard him as such,
those magistrates who care not to have him in their thoughts, to
suffer him to interfere in their scheme of government, who say in
their hearts that there is no God, or wish it, or even bid open
defiance to him (though I hope and believe this last is not often
the case), cannot prosper : but must bring down vengeance upon
themselves, and the wicked nations over whom they preside. In
like manner, if God has sent his beloved Son Jesus Christ to be
an example to the world, to die for it, and to govern it, it cannot
be an indifferent thing whether we attend to his call or no. The
neglect of revealed religion, especially in persons of authority, is
the same thing as declaring it to be false; for if true, the neglect
of it is, as one may say, high treason against the majesty of
heaven. He that honours not the Son, cannot honour the
Father, who has sent him with sufficient credentials. And
accordingly, if we consider the second psalm as a prophecy
relating to Christ, which it certainly is, those kings and magis
trates who rise up against God and his Christ, intending to shake
off the restraints of natural and revealed religion, must expect to
be broken in pieces like a potter's vessel. Since they will not
kiss the Son, and rejoice before him with reverence, they must
expect that he will rule over them with a rod of iron.
Now, we may go farther, and affirm, that if there were no
satisfactory evidence for natural or revealed religion, still it is the
interest of princes and governors to improve that which there is
to the best advantage. The happiness of their people, their own
interest with them, their power, their safety, their all, depend
upon it. Neither is this any intricate, far-fetched, or doubtful
position, but a truth which lies upon the surface of things, which
is evident at first sight, and undeniable after the most thorough
examination. So that for governors to render religion contemp
tible in the eyes of their subjects, by example or insinuation, and
much more by directly ridiculing or vilifying it, is manifest
infatuation ; it is seeing without perceiving, and hearing without
understanding, through the grossness and carnality of their hearts.
And it may be part of the infatuation predicted to come upon the
wicked in the latter ages of the world. For then the wicked
shall do wickedly, and none of the wicked shall understand.
Religion is often said by unbelievers to have been the invention
CONCLUSION'. 597
of wise lawgivers, and artful politicians, in order to keep the
vicious and headstrong multitude in awe. How little does the
practice of the present times suit with this ! The administrators
of public affairs in the present times are not even wise or artful
enough to take advantage of a pure religion, handed down to
them from their ancestors, and which they certainly did not
invent ; but endeavour to explode it at the manifest hazard of
all that is dear to them. For mankind can never be kept in
subjection to government, but by the hopes and fears of another
world ; nay, the express precepts, promises, and threatenings of
the gospel are requisite for this purpose. The unwritten law of
nature is too pliable, too subtle, and too feeble; a dishonest heart
can easily explain it, or its motives, away ; and violent passions
will not suffer it to be heard : whereas the precepts of revealed
religion are absolute and express, and its motives alarming to the
highest degree, where the Scriptures are received and considered,
in any measure, as they ought to be.
The Greek and Roman philosophy and morality was not
indeed equal to ours ; but we may have a sufficient specimen
from thence, how little very good doctrines, when taught without
authority, are able to check the growing corruption of mankind.
Had not Christianity intervened at the declension of the Roman
empire, and put a stop to the career of vice, the whole body
politic of the civilized nations of that empire must have been
dissolved, from the mere wickedness and corruption of its several
parts. And much rather may the same come upon us, if after
such light and evidence we cast off the restraints and motives of
revealed religion.
I would not be understood to speak here to those alone, who
are legally the governors of the nations of Christendom, i. e. who
have a particular legislative or executive power vested in them
by the constitutions or customs of their respective countries ;
but also to all such as by their eminence in any way, their
learning, their titles, their riches, &c. draw the world after them.
And it seems requisite to remind the two learned professions of
law and physic, that though they are no ways qualified to judge
of the evidence for religion, unless they have examined it care
fully, i. e. with the same attention and impartiality, as they would
do a matter of law or physic, where it is their interest to form
a right judgment (in which case there seems to be no doubt but
they will determine for it) ; yet the illiterate part of mankind
will easily catch the infection from them on account of their
general, confused reputation of being learned, and by means of
the plausible ways of haranguing and descanting upon topics, to
which they are formed by their educations and professions. And
thus, whether they attend to it or no, they become the seducers
of mankind, and rocks of offence to the weak and ignorant, and
load themselves with the guilt of other men's sins. This caution
is so much the more necessary, as it is common for young
598 CONCLUSION.
students in these professions to list themselves on the side of
rrreligion, and become nominal infidels of course, and from
fashion, as it were ; and without pretending, as indeed there
could be no reasonable pretence, to have examined into the
merits of the cause. Which blind and implicit faith in the
blind, in one does not know what or whom, would be most
unaccountable in those who profess infidelity, were it not, that
this is in every other instance a contradiction to itself, and must
be so, on account of the wilful infatuation from which it arises.
I will now shew briefly how the prevalence of infidelity in
creases, and is increased by, the other evils here mentioned.
That it opens a door to lewdness cannot be doubted by any one ;
and, indeed, the strictness and purity of the christian religion, in
this respect, is probably the chief thing which makes vicious men
first fear and hate, and then vilify and oppose it. The unwritten
law of nature cannot fix precise bounds to the commerce between
the sexes. This is too wide a field, as I have observed above ;
and yet it highly approves of chastity of thought, word, and
deed. If, therefore, men reject only revealed religion, great
libertinism must ensue ; but if they reject natural also, which is
generally the case, we can expect nothing but the most aban
doned dissoluteness.
As to self-interest, we may observe, that those who have no
hopes in futurity, no piety towards God, and, consequently, no
solid or extensive benevolence towards men, cannot but be
engrossed by the most sordid and grovelling kind, that which
rests in present possessions and enjoyments. And, conversely,
when such a self-interest has taken root, they must be averse to
religion, because it opens distant and ungrateful views to them,
and inculcates the pure and disinterested love of God and their
neighbour; to them an enthusiastic and impossible project.
In like manner infidelity must dispose men to shake off the
yoke of authority, to unbounded licentiousness ; and reciprocally
is itself the natural consequence of every degree of licentiousness.
Those who do not regard the Supreme Authority, can be little
expected to regard any of his vicegerents ; those who do not fear
God, will not honour the king. If the infatuation of princes was
not of the deepest kind, they could not but see that they hold
their dominions entirely by the real Christianity that is left
amongst us; and that if they do succeed in taking away this
foundation, or weakening it much farther, their governments
must fall, like houses built upon sand. Besides the great influ
ence which Christianity has to make men humble and obedient,
it is to be considered, that our ancestors have so interwoven it
with the constitutions of the kingdoms of Europe, that they
must stand or fall together. Christianity is the cement of the
buildings.
It is also evident, that the infidelity of the laity must have an
ill effect in respect of the clergy. Many of these must be the
CONCLUSION. 599
sons of infidels, thrust into the church by their parents for subsis
tence, or with a view to great honours and profits ; and must
carry with them a deep tincture of the corruption and infidelity
which they imbibed in their infancy and youth. And it is not
less evident, that the worldly-mindedness and neglect of duty in
the clergy is a great scandal to religion, and cause of infidelity ;
the chief probably after the impatience of restraint in respect of
chastity in the laity. It is also to be considered, that unbe
lieving magistrates will have little regard to the piety of the
persons whom they promote to the highest stations of the church,
but rather to their flattery, subserviency, and apparent political
usefulness.
Lastly, As to the perverted education of youth, atheism and
infidelity are both the cause and effect of this in so obvious a
manner, that it seems superfluous to enlarge upon it.
The lewdness which I have mentioned above, as a second cause
of the future dissolution of these western kingdoms, is now risen
to such a height, as almost to threaten utter confusion. Men
glory in their shame, and publicly avow what in former ages was
industriously concealed. Princes are justly chargeable with a
great part of this public guilt. Their courts will imitate them,
in what is bad at least ; and be led on thereby from one degree
of shamelessness to another. The evil increases gradually; for
neither courts, nor private persons, become quite profligate at
once ; and this may make some almost persuade themselves, that
the present times are not worse than the preceding. The sins
of this kind are, for the most part, joined with idolatry in the
prophetical writings, and made the types thereof. So that the
open and avowed practice of them is an open renunciation of our
allegiance to God and Christ; and, agreeably to this, is, as has
been observed above, the principal cause why so many persons
reject revealed religion. But, if we renounce our allegiance and
covenant, we can be no longer under the protection of God.
The gross self-interest, which is now the principal motive in
most marriages in high life, is both a cause and consequence of
this libertinism. The same may be observed of the great con
tempt in which marriage is held, and which almost threatens
promiscuous concubinage among the higher ranks, and the pro
fessed unbelievers.
As to the clergy, if they neglect to admonish princes and great
men through fear, and servile interest, a great part of the national
guilt will lie at their doors ; and, if they become, in general, in
fected with this vice (which indeed is not the case now; but may
perhaps hereafter, as all things grow worse), it will soon be the
entire subversion of the external form of church government;
however certain it be, that the church of those who worship God
in spirit and in truth, will prevail against the gates of hell.
The third great evil likely to hasten our ruin is the self-interest
which prevails so much amongst those to whom the administration
GOO CONCLUSION.
of public affairs is committed. It seems that bodies politic are
in this particular, as in many others, analogous to individuals,
that they grow more selfish, as they decline. As things now
are, one can scarce expect, that, in any impending danger, those
who have it in their power to save a falling state, will attempt it,
unless there be some prospect of gain to themselves. And, while
they barter and cast about for the greatest advantages to them
selves, the evil will become past remedy. Whether or no it be
possible to administer public affairs upon upright and generous
principles, after so much corruption has already taken place, may
perhaps be justly questioned. However, if it cannot be now,
much less can it be hereafter; and, if this evil increase much
more in this country, there is reason to fear, than an independent
populace may get the upper hand, and overset the state. The
wheels of government are already clogged so much, that it is
difficult to transact the common necessary affairs, and almost
impossible to make a good law.
The licentiousness of inferiors of all ranks, which is the fourth
great evil, runs higher in this country perhaps than in any other.
However, the infection will probably spread. The inferiors in
other countries cannot but envy and imitate those in this ; and
that more and more every day, as all mutual intercourses are
enlarged. The self-interest just spoken of contributes greatly to
this evil, the insolence of the populace against one party of their
superiors being supported, and even encouraged, by the other,
from interested views of displacing their opposites. Let it be
observed also, that the laity of high rank, by ridiculing and
insulting their superiors in the church, have had a great share in
introducing the spirit of universal disobedience, and contempt of
authority, amongst the inferior orders, in this nation.
The wicked and notoriously false calumnies which are spread
about concerning the royal family by the disaffected party in this
country, may be ranked under this evil. Those who scruple to
take the oaths required by the present government, ought at
least to seek the peace of the country, where they live in peace,
and the quiet enjoyment of their possessions. However, the
crime of such as take the oaths, and still vilify, is much greater,
and one of the highest offences that can be offered to the Divine
Majesty.
That worldly-mindedness, and neglect of duty, in the clergy,
must hasten our ruin, cannot be doubted. These are the salt of
the earth, and the light of the world. If they lose their savour,
the whole nation, where this happens, will be converted into one
putrid mass: if their light become darkness, the whole body
politic must be dark also. The degeneracy of the court of Rome,
and secular bishops abroad, are too notorious to be mentioned.
They almost cease to give offence, as they scarce pretend to any
function or authority, besides what is temporal. Yet still there
is great mockery of God in their external pomp, and profanation
CONCLUSION. GOI
of sacred titles; which, sooner or later, will bring down ven
geance upon them. And as the court of Rome has been
at the head of the great apostacy and corruption of the christian
church, and seems evidently marked out in various places of
the Scriptures, the severest judgments are probably reserved
for her.
But I rather choose to speak to what falls under the observa
tion of all serious, attentive persons in this kingdom. The
superior clergy are, in general, ambitious, and eager in the pur
suit of riches ; flatterers of the great, and subservient to party
interest ; negligent of their own immediate charges, and also of
the inferior clergy, and their immediate charges. The inferior
clergy imitate their superiors, and, in general, take little more
care of their parishes, than barely what is necessary to avoid the
censure of the law. And the clergy of all ranks are, in general,
either ignorant; or, if they do apply, it is rather to profane
learning, to philosophical or political matters, than to the study
of the Scriptures, of the oriental languages, of the fathers, and
ecclesiastical authors, and of the writings of devout men in dif
ferent ages of the church. I say this is, in general, the case;
i. e. far the greater part of the clergy of all ranks in this kingdom
are of this kind. But there are some of a quite different cha
racter, men eminent for piety, sacred learning, and the faithful
discharge of their duty, and who, it is not to be doubted, mourn
in secret for the crying sins of this and other nations. The
clergy, in general, are also far more free from open and gross
vices, than any other denomination of men amongst us, physicians,
lawyers, merchants, soldiers, &c. However, this may be other
wise hereafter. For it is said, that in some foreign countries
the superior clergy, in others the inferior, are as corrupt and
abandoned, or more so, than any other order of men. The
clergy in this kingdom seem to be what one might expect from
the mixture of good and bad influences that affect them. But
then, if we make this candid allowance for them, we must also
make it for persons in the high ranks of life, for their infidelity,
lewdness, and sordid self-interest. And though it becomes
an humble, charitable, and impartial man, to make all these
allowances; yet he cannot but see, that the judgments of
God are ready to fall upon us all for these things; and that
they may fall first, and with the greatest weight, upon those,
who, having the highest office committed to them in the spiritual
kingdom of Christ, neglect it, and are become mere merchants
of the earth, and shepherds, that feed themselves, and not their
flocks.
How greatly might the face of things be changed in this king
dom, were any number of the superior, or even of the inferior
clergy, to begin to discharge their respective functions with true
christian zeal, courage, and fidelity ! The earnestness of some
might awaken and excite others, and the whole lump be leavened.
R R
G0;> CONCLUSION.
At least, we might hope to delay or alleviate the miseries that
threaten us. Why are not all the poor taught to read the Bible,
all instructed in the church catechism, so as to have such prin
ciples of religion early instilled into them, as would enable them
to take delight in, and to profit by, the Bible, and practical
books of religion ? Why are not all the sick visited, the feeble
minded comforted, the unruly warned ? And why do not ministers
go about, thus doing good, and seeking out those who want their
assistance ? Why not punish and discourage all negligent parish
ministers, reward and promote those that are pious and diligent?
Let those worthy clergymen, who lament the degeneracy of their
own order, inform the public what is practicable and fitting to be
done in these things. I can only deliver general remarks, such
as occur to a by-stander.
There are great complaints made of the irregularities of the
Methodists, and, I believe, not without reason. The surest
means to check these irregularities are for the clergy to learn
from the methodists what is good in them, to adopt their zeal,
and concern for lost souls: this would soon unite all that are
truly good amongst the methodists to the clergy, and disarm
such as are otherwise. And if the methodists will hearken to
one who means sincerely well to all parties, let me entreat them
to reverence their superiors, to avoid spiritual selfishness, and
zeal for particular phrases and tenets, and not to sow divisions
in parishes and families, but to be peace-makers, as they hope to
be called the children of God. The whole world will never be
converted, but by those who are of a truly catholic spirit. Let
me entreat all parties, as a sincere friend and lover of all, not to
be offended with the great, perhaps unjustifiable freedom, which
I have used, but to lay to heart the charges here brought, to
examine how far they are true, and reform wherever they are
found to be so.
If the state of things in this and other nations be, in any
measure, what I have above described, it is no wonder that the
education of youth should be grossly perverted and corrupted, so
that one may justly fear, that every subsequent generation will
exceed that which went before it in degeneracy and wickedness,
till such time as the great tribulation come. Vicious parents
cannot be sensible of the importance and necessity of a good and
religious education, in order to make their children happy. They
must corrupt them not only by their examples, but by many
other ways, direct as well as indirect. As infidelity now spreads
amongst the female sex, who have the care of both sexes during
their infancy, it is to be feared, that many children will want the
very elements of religion ; be quite strangers to the Scriptures,
except as they sometimes hear them ridiculed ; and be savages
as to the internal man, as to their moral and religious knowledge
and behaviour ; and be distinguished from them chiefly by the
feeble restraints of external politeness and decorum. It is
CONCLUSION. go;j
evident from common observation, and more so from the fore
going theory, that children may be formed and moulded as we
please. When therefore they prove vicious and miserable, the
guilt lies at our doors, as well as theirs ; and, on the contrary,
he who educates a son, or a daughter, in the ways of piety and
virtue, confers the highest obligation both upon his child, and
upon the rising generation ; and may be the instrument of salva
tion, temporal and eternal, to multitudes.
There are two things here which deserve more particular
attention ; viz. the education of the clergy, and that of princes.
As to the first, one cannot but wonder how it is possible for
the many serious and judicious clergymen, who have the care of
youth in public schools and universities, to be so negligent of the
principal point, their moral and religious behaviour; and that
especially as the regulation of this would make all other parts of
education go on with so much more ease and success : how school
masters can still persist in teaching lewd poets after the remon
strances of pious men against this practice, and the evident ill
consequences : how the tutors in the universities can permit such
open debauchery, as is often practised there: and how sacred
learning, which surely is the chief thing for scholars intended for
the christian ministry, can be allowed so small a share of time
and pains both in schools and in the universities. But as I said
before of the clergy in general, let those schoolmasters and
tutors, who have religion at heart, speak fully to this point. I
shall submit my own judgment, in both cases, entirely to the
better judgment of pious men, that are conversant in these
things.
As to the education of princes, the case is every thing but
desperate ; so that one could scarce think of mentioning it, were
it not for the great change in the face of things, which would
immediately ensue, if but so much as one sovereign prince would
set aside all self-regards, and devote himself entirely to the
promotion of religion, and the service of mankind. I do not at
all mean to intimate, that princes are worse than other men,
proper allowances being made. On the contrary, I suppose
they are just the same. And they have an undoubted right to
the greatest candour and compassion from their subjects, on
account of the extraordinary difficulties and temptations with
which they are beset, as well as to the most profound reverence
and entire obedience.
These are my real and earnest sentiments upon these points.
It would be as great rashness to fix a time for the breaking of
the storm that hangs over our heads, as it is blindness and
infatuation not to see it; not to be aware that it may break.
And yet this infatuation has always attended all falling states.
The kingdoms of Judah and Israel, which are the types of all the
rest, were thus infatuated. It may be, that the prophecies
concerning Edom, Moab, Amnion, Tyre, Egypt, &c. will become
CONCLUSION.
applicable to particular kingdoms before their fall, and warn the
good to flee out of them. And Christendom, in general, seems
ready to assume to itself the place and lot of the Jews, after
they had rejected their Messiah, the Saviour of the world. Let
no one deceive himself or others. - ^The present circumstances of
the world are extraordinary and critical, beyond what has ever
yet happened. If we refuse to let Christ reign over us, as our
Redeemer and Saviour, we must be slain before his face, as
enemies, at his second coming.
THE END.
II. CLAY, l'UINTLH, BIlLAD-STKELT-II1LL.
