{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__howitt___popular_history_of_priestcraft____3ed.pdf","mytitle":"Popular History Of Priestcraft","mylang":"de"}
A
POPULAR HISTORY
OF
PRIESTCRAFT
IN ALL AGES AND NATIONS.
BY
WILLIAM HOWITT.
Help no to uve free conscience from the paw
Or hireling wolveo, wbooe Gospel ia their maw.
Mli.TOH.
We apirita are not cltizims of the earth, but of the city of God, called
the univene, aod our life tills not merely a moment, bot eternity. lo
thia e~:alted position, what eao we do more wortby of our destination
thao, like Cbriat, aod by hia word, to relea!Se epirhs from the abackles
of error, and to bring them nearer unto God.
Scao..aL'I PreMOt Sto.t• qf Chmtianitr throughowt th6 World.
THIRD EDITION :
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
LONDON:
EFFINGHAM WILSON, ROYAL EXCHANGE.
1834.
LO"OO":
PKINT&D BY •.a.NifJNO AND SlltTRSO~,
l'fY•L.lNB, PAT&RNOJTIJt..ROW.
c · "Coogle
Oa Truth! immortal Truth! on what wild ground
Still hast thou trod through this unspiritual sphere !
The strong, the brutish, and the vile surround
Thy presence, lest thy streamin~ glory cheer
The poor, the many, without pnce, or bound,
Drowning thy voice, they fill the popular ear,
In thy high name, with canons, creeds, and laws,
Feigning to serve, that they may mar thy cause.
And the great multitude doth crouch and bear
The burden of the selfish. That emprize,-
That lofty spirit of Virtue which can dare
To rend the bands of error from all eyes,
And from the freed soul plw::k each sensual care,
To them is but a fable. Therefore lies
Darkness upon the ·mentai desart sti\1,
And wolves devo"r; 11n(!. robbers wa!f at will.
Yet, ever and anon,,from thy:bri~ quiver,
The flaming arrows o(thy mig~t-ilre strown;
And rushing forth, thy dauntless children shiver
The strength of foes who press too near thy throne.
Then, like the sun, or thy Almighty Giver,
Thy light is through the startled nations shown ;
And generous indignation tramples down
The sophist's web, and the oppressor's crown.
Oh ! might it bum for ever ! But in vain-
For vengeance rallies the alanned host,
Who from men's souls draw their dishonest gain.
For thee they smite, audaciously they boast,
Even while thy sons are in thy bosom slain.
Yet this is tby sure solace-that not lost,
Each drop of blood, each tear,-Cadmean seed
Shall send up armed champions at thy need.•
1827. W. H.
• From the "Desolation of Eyam, and other Poems."
Coogle
ADVERTISEMENT TO THE THIRD EDITION.
THE sale of two large editions of this little volume in six
months; its favourable notice on the Continent; ita reprint
in America; the cordial welcome given to it by the friends
of freedom, the hearty abuse poured on it by the selfish and
venal at home, are sufficient testimonies to the depth, ex-
tent, and activity of the public feeling on the question it
agitates,-to me, sufficient justification and reward for its
composition.
I have been told that it is not wise to speak boldly the
truth ; that it is not the fashion of these times. I have been
warned that no man, or even journal, can do it, except at
serious cost; and I have been assured by the conductor of a
very popular periodical, that, if I would come and live a little
while in London, I should see the necessity and good policy
of acquiescing in the form and pre88Ure ofthe age, and not
attempting to oppose that tide of smooth, but mighty dissi-
mulation which cannot be readily stemmed, but may bear
those who resist it away.
If such would be, in reality, the effect of a London resi-
dence, l must say-excuse me; I shall abide in the country.
My early education was in a very Persian style. I learned
vi ADV~BTISlUONr,
" .tQ ridtl; to shoot, and apeak the truth:" and:wellaal,lj~d
the farmer branchea of this good old &yMem, tbe laat.,bas
become everyday dearer to me; it baagnnra aamv~
habit. If it be indet!d tbe fuhion to make Ttutb .1aep
public lilence; and permit her only to open her IDoOilth u
an eave&-dropper and backbiter, there is the more need .to
vindicate her ancient and moat inestimable prerogative.
No man can be more aenaible to the value ofcourteay.than
I am ; more reluctant to wound the feelings of the generous
and the good: but there are duties in this world to perferm,
which to omit, is to become the worst of treitors to our
fellow~men. To be silent when humanityitaelfis niiring
from the selfiah and the wily, is to be at once a OOWilrd Jllld
a slave. It is by this means that tyranny beOOIDel strong,
and all the evil• of 80Ciety are perpetuated.. But, ilr.my"
aelf, I ·have found nothing to fear; h011eaty,.in my cale,
aubeen the best policy ; and I believe it will in al1 otbera;
for wbenver I see in poHlical·jonrnale the moat thO!'ough
advocacy of liberal opinions, I find it attended widJ.tJie
widen eiroulation. As for abuse, I never knew.till 11-
how euy it wu to bear-how difficnlt it is to pierce tile
abieW of a good CODacience : the vociferous.ralloour of.tJM
ill~ baa excited my merriment or pity, but it baa
nevet·for a moment, stirred a more U11ple818Dt feetiJig. '
To thole tander ud thole timid millda .who have been
induoad to· feu for, or to blame me, I would say a few
words. When they start at bold and sharp explUiione
apialt·tbedeladen and oppreuora of our filUo1MJlen, they
do·DOt Teflect, &bat oouldthey preYail with ua,·• thayweald
wilh, to preserve silence, tMy -ud IJlGre tia~e fll6o ~
MIN·! They do not CCIIUiider, when· ·they woulli nat•hmt
oCMn'·feelinsl, tht ·the ~amt aDil the deceinr hUe-
Wblg. Were1they to•~~~a~ead ia -tlse,COWIIIII 0..,.gift...,
vii
~•• .~~tey IM,..lou who woald establiab every l'nlel
c,riulay, a11d etenrize every grinding abWJe; and that the
t*laln ecmteqaenoe would be, that the creature• Md the
cnanonia.they atmpteclfrom just viaitation would, ere long,
,.,.."'*'tMJII, and trample them without remot"R. Let
them ,Jook ooly at Poland, and aee what deapotiam woutd
do bere, 'lftre it not for .the preaa and the pen. I.et them
thlwk.God, that fOr themaelvea peace and repoee are their
IMr but I~ them tbult him not the leu, that he ~e~~ds into
the wwld more e~tergetic naturea,-quick to feel, and strong
to·dare; natures that kindle at the aspect of oppreuion, anti .
anum me with tbe 8UIMI of loYe. For, says Milton; tlult
~Jrat·l:bampion and martyr of freedom, whom I have so
oftm•q.-.d in thia volume-" therefore, they that love
tlte•snls.of men, which is the deareet love, and stirs up
tae ·noblest jealousy, when they meet with sueh collusion,
cannot be blamed,. though they be tr&nipOrted with the
~ .of truth· to a well-heated fervency ; especiaiJy aeeing
diey.'WIIich thna offend against the souls of their brethren,
tJ.it with·delight, to thei1' great gain, eaae, and adnnlllr-
-.nt iD the world ; but they that seek to diacounr and
.;po-e their fallle trade of deceiving, do it not withoat a
wl unwilling aoger; ·not without many hazards, but with-
outaB privateaod penonal spleen, and without any th011gbt
of·:·rewari, when .this very 00111"18 they take . . tleir
~· of .-nding above a lowly and unenriable pitch in
thia.lifeJ'
'·•Let.them reflect, too, that if we would fell ..,'aak;·w.e
IDIIIln¥Jtatt.mpt to hew.it with a straw; if.a roek, we m!Mt
1ICIIi11mite it with a feather; if we wonld 11torm a :etrtJIIS'
furtreaa, we liiUit not -n it ·wi&h reedll; i£ we wwld
all· die lim, or the bear, :it will11ot1 lie with the•ame
1l!tllpCiD ~ .wbioh·we allould:·demolisb a.>beetle, or.biulll
Googk
viii ADVBII.TIB.!lllBNT.
away a fly. But, in society, there are tyn.nniea more
deeply rooted than oaks; denser than rbeka; stronger than
granite citadels ; cruel abuses, mare fierce an& savage than
the beasts ofthe wilderness, and against them we mnat uae
" thoughts that breathe, and words that burn; " we must
" cry aloud, and spare not ;" we must, in abort, imitate
Christ, the lover of men, the blesser of babes, the weeper
over the wayward and the wicked ; but the most' temble
denouncer of · oppreuoni, assailing them with the moat
awful and annihilating terms.
·In the prose writings of Milton, a man of whom he who
knows him only as the poet knows not the half; and whose
"Five Tracts concerning the Government of the CbuMh,''
had they been read as widely and aa often as tbey ·oagl'it,
would long ago have spared the labour·of these latter clay&
-writings, unmatch~for the extent of their leaniing; the
soundness and vigour of their reasoning, and the in"spired
splendour of their eloquence,-! find !l passage so exactly
embodying my owu feelings, that I wpl give it.
"Surely, to every good and peaceable man, it inust iri
nature needs be a hatefnl thing to be the displeaaer and
molester of thousands ; much 'better would it like him,
doubtless, to be the messenger of gt.llne• and conterrtmeftt,
which is his chief intended busin- to 81.1 mankind, but
that they resist and oppose their own true happinl!•; · BUt
when God commands to take the ·trumpet, 'and blow ·a
dolorous, or a jarring blast, it lies n6t in man'• will :what
he shall say, or what he shaD conceal. If he sb81.1'thbllt to
be silent, as Jeremiah -did, he would be forced to con&.
as he confeased-' bub his word wal{fb my beaJt u a butn..
ing fire eluit up in my bones : I waa weary with. for'llearblr
atul eeuld not stay.' · Wbieh might teach these timet Dot
wcWenly to ·condemn all tluzl '~~n ·~ · lpoltm, ·or·..-.
ADVERTISEKENT.
mt11tly ruritterl, as proceeding out of stomach, virulence, or
ill-nature ; but to consider, rather, that if the prelates have
leM'e to BaY the wont that can be said, and do the worst
that caD be done, while they strive to keep to th,emselves,
to their great pleasure and commodity, those thing~ which
they ought to render up, no man can be justly offended
with him that shall endeavour to impart and beltow thoee
sharp. and saving words which would be a terrw and
torm~:nt in him to keep. back. For me, I have determined
to lay up as the best treasure and solace of a good old age,
if God vouchsafe it me, the honest liberty of free speech
from my youth, where I shall think it available in so dear
a concernment as the church's good. For, should the
~burch (!he universal one) be brought under any oppres-
sion, or should she, by blessing from above on the courage
and ill4ustry of faithful men, change .~ distracted state
iuto .b!ltter d11ys, without the least furtherance ~r con.
~bution. . of those few talents which God bath lent me, I
foresee what stories I should hear.wi~ ~yself all .niy
life after, of discourage, and reproach. But now, by this
little diligence, mark what a privilege I have gained with
good men and saints to lament with her in her tribulations,
when others that have ventured nothing for her sake, have
not the honour to be ·admitted mourners; or if she lift up
her drooping head and prosper among those that have
something more than wished her welfare, I have my charter
and freehold of rejoicing to me and my heirs. Concerning,
therefore, this wayward subject of prelacy, the touching
whereof is 10 distasteful and disquietous to a number of
men, by what hath been said, I may deserve of charitable
readers to be credited, that neither envy nor gall hath
entered me upon this controversy, but the enforcement of
conscience only, and a preventive fear, lest the omitthsg of
., ,,Coogle
X ADVERTISEMENT.
this duty should be against me when I would store up to
myself the good provision of peaceful hours."
After this, what more need I say, but to tender my
cordial thanks to the writers of many able and energetic
criticisms on this volume, to the many purchasers of it, and
to those kind people who have sent me meuages which
might strengthen, and books that might serve me, from all
quarters; and with this grateful sentiment, to send it into
the world once more amongst the111o
NuttingAam, March 12th, 1834.
N.B. To this edition four new chapters have been added,
viz. XVI., XX., XXI., and XXII., as well as much inter-
spersed matter in the English Cliurcb, on tithes, perse-
cutions, testimonies of the friends of the church to its
corruptions, etc. etc.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
Tuz two Evil Principles,· Kingcraft and Priestcraft,
co-eval in their origin-Innumerable Historians of
the one, but none singly and entirely of the other-
The real and monstrous Character of Priestcraft-
Evil Systems attacked in this work without mercy,
/but not Men •
CHAPTER II.
Paganism distinguished universally by the same great
. leading Principles-supposed to originate in the
corruption ofthe Patriarchal Worsbip soon after the
Flood-Probable diffusion of Original Population-
Origin of the Doctrine of Three Gods, in Greece,
Egypt, Persia, Syria, among the Tartars, Chinese,
Goths, Americans, etc.-Of the Preservation of the
Ark in the religious ceremonies of all Pagan Na-
tions--Of the Doctrine of a succession of WorIds,
and of a Deluge-Ancient Mysteries celebrated,
especially by the Greeks, Egyptians, Hindoos, and
Druids-Advantage taken by Priests of this great
Pqe
system of Superstition 5
CHAPTER III.
Mythology ofthe Assyrians and Syrians-the horrors of
Moloch-Chemosb-Baal and Baal-Fires-Bryant's
Theory of the Cuthic Tribes agrees with the exist-
ence of Castes in all Pagan Nations- Spirit of the
Syrian Priests as shewn in the Jewish History-Vile
Deceptions of Priests-The Wife of the God-
Priestly Arts exposed by Daniel - 12
xii CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IV.
The same system of Superstition and Priesterat\ which
prevailed in Asia, existing also among the Celts and
Goths of ancient Europe-Every where the Priests
the dominant Caste-In Britain, Gaul, and Germany
their state shewn by Cresar and Tacitus-The No-
tions, Sacrifices, and Superstitions of Scandinavia. • ID
CHAPTER V.
The same system discovered, to the surprise ofthe learned,
in America-The Gods, Doctrines, and Practices of
the Northern Indians, Mexicans, and Peruvians-
Dominance of the Priests and Nobles, and Slavery
of the People,.-their bloody Sacrifices and fearful
Orgies, similar to those of the Asiatics-The amazing
number of their Human Sacrifices recorded by the
Spanish writers-Striking Picture of Priesteraft in
Southey's Madoc • 31
CHAPTER VI.
The Priest-ridden condition of Egypt notorious-involved
in the same system of Priestcraft already noticed-
Dr. Robertson's Theory of the Uniformity of Pagan
Creeds insufficient, and why-Egyptian Superstitions
-Excessive Veneration of Animals, and consequent
singular Rites and Facts-Horrid and licentious
Customs-Policy of their Priests to conceal Know-
ledge from the People-place themselves above the
Nobles and even the Kings-regulate all the daily
actions of the Kings-Striking Illustrations of the
verity of the Greek accounts in the History of
Joseph-Priests supposed to have been sole Kings in
Egypt for ages - 45
CHAPTER VII.
The popular Theology of the Greeks-Another and more
Occult Theolo~-Effect of the Poetry of Homer on
the spirits of h1s countrymen-his noble Maxims-
Priestcraft compelled to adopt a nice policy by the
free spirit of the Greeks; yet bloody and licentious
Rites introduced, and the people effectually enslaved
by means of 'Festivals, Games, Sacrifices, Oracles,
Augury, and Mysteries-The immense influence of
CONTENTS. xiii
P&J•
Oracl- Description of the Mysteri-Description
of the Egyptian darkness with respect to them-
Taliesin's allusions to them-Priestly A'fllrice - M
CHAPTER VIII.
In<lia-Priestcraft in its boldest aspect-Doctrines, Sa-
crifices, and licentious Rites-Women of the Tem-
ple-Immense Wealth aecumulated by the Brahmins
-seized by the Arabians-Mabmoud of Gazna-
his Feast at Canl'ugha-his Adventure at the
Temple of Sumnaut-Eternal Slavery stamped by
the Brahmins on the Hindoos by the institution of
Castes-Inviolable Sanctity and Immunities of the
Brahmins-the Sooders-the Chandelahs-Remarks 74
CHAPTER IX.
The Hebrews-Comparison of the Old Man of the Sea,
and the Old Man of the Church-The Hebrew
Priesthood the only one ever divinely ordained, yet
evil in its tendency, and fatal to the Nation-began
in AllrOn in dastardly equivocation-shewed itself
in the Sons of Eli, in avarice and lewdne-and
finally crueified Christ - - 94
CHAPTER X.
PoPERY-Christ and Christianity-the latter speedily
corrupted-Acts by whieh the Papal Church seized
on power - 100
CHAPTER XI.
PorJ:RY coNTINUED: Struggles of the Popes for power....-
The Emperors favour them on account of their in-
ftuence with the People--Scandalous transactions
between them and. the French Monarchs-Pepin and
Cluu:l~e-Gregory VII., the notorious Hild~
brand, -rts absolute power over Kings-his in-
tercourse with the Countess Matilda- claims the
right of insplling Bishops-}'urther enormities of
the Popes-This example followed by the Bishops
and Clergy, who become Dukes and Noblcs-Eyil
inlluence of Councils • • • • • , - llO
xiv eONTENTS.
~ . .. . CHAPTER XII.
· Pare
Establishment of Monkery.....:.Nnmbers an.d enormities ol
the Monks-are the Spies and Chain{liQIJS of Po-
pery-their quarrels-Strange History_)lf Jetter-
Frauds-some gross ones practised in .England-
Maid of Kent-Pilgrimage of Grace-f'prgery of
the Deeretals-lnfinite modes of enslaving the Popu-
lar mind-Relics, Pilgrimages, Crusades, Festivals,
Confessions, Purgatory, Pardons, Mass, Excommu-
nications, Inquisition, etc.-Treatment of learned
Men • - 121
CHAPTER XIII.
PoPISJf AaaooANCJ: AND ATaociTIES: The Pope pro-
claims himself Lord of the Univ~his Tre:~t­
ment of Dandolo, of Frederick Barharossa, and of
Henry IV.-sets up and dethrones Kings- Imitated
by the Clergy- Thomas a Becket- King John's
humiliation- PAPAL ATaOCITlEB: Galileo- Wy-
cliffe and other Martyrs-Massacres of Protestants
in the Netherlands-Massacre of St. Bartholomew-
Bloody Persecutions of the Vaudois-War of Exter·
mination waged by the Pope in Provence-Extinc-
tion of the Troubadours- Noble Conduct of the
young Count of Bezeirs-Rise of the Inquisition - 136
CHAPTER XIV•
•Jesuits and Inquisitors- Pernicious Doctrines of the
Jesuits-Hudibras's Exposition of such Doctrines-
Loyola their founder, sets up, under the name of
General, another sort of Pop~The success of his
J>Jaus-General Character and Progress of the Je-
suits-their Mercantile Concerns-their Conduct in
China-in Paraguay-in the European Countries-
attempts on the Lives of Queen Elizabeth and James
I.-their Murder of Henry III. and Henry IV.
of l<'rance-The Inquisition-introducL'<i into most
Catholic Countrie,., but permanent in Spain-'fl1c
Atrocities of the Spanish Inquisition against the Jews,
1\foors, and Lutherans-Excessive power of the In-
quisitors-Cromwell's Threat-Limborch's Account
XV
of the Proceedings of the lnquisition-~ort~ ••
Auto-da-fe described by Dr. Geddes - ,Suppression ~
of the Inquisition by Napoleon-its iestOration by
Ferdinand-Pr;esent state of Catholic Countries - 150
''~··.~·
·~•' CHAPTER XV.
ENGI.Iss Cu.J~cs- Unfortunate circumatances under
which the Reformation began in England-Regal
power fatal to Religion-Arbitrary conduct of the
Tudors-lnquisi.tion established in England, under
the names of the Star Chamber and High Commis-
sion Court-Popish bias of Elizabeth-her com-
pletion of the Liturgy-Despotism of the Stuarts-
their Persecutions in England and Scotland-The
arbitrary spirit or Laud conducts himself and Charles
I. to the block-Laud's fondness for Popish Mum-
mery-His singular Consecration of St. Catherine's
Church - Heterogeneous materials of the English
Church, and consequent Schisms - - • 179
CHAPTER XVI.
A CHAPTER OF PEB.sl!CUTIONS. Henry VIII.'s Murders
-Passes the Bloody Statute, forbidding Workmen
and Women to read the Bible in English, on pain of
death-Passes the Act of Supremacy-Sycophancy
of the Bishops-Fisher, of Rochester, an e1ception-
lnconsistency and cruelty of Sir Thomas More-The
Bishop's Book subscribed by Gardiner, Bonner, etc.
-Ignorant Monks made Parsons-Curious com-
plaint of Starvation on ten dishes, by the Monks of
St. Swithin's-A jolly Abbot's confessio11-Edward
VI. burns Joan Bacher and Van Paris-Hooper
persecuted for disliking the Popish Robes-Elizabeth
attempts Reconciliation with the Pope-Her at-
tempts to crush the Reformation- Dean Colet's
candid description of the state of the Church-Eli-
zabeth compels men to be Bishops against their con-
sciences-Persecutes bitterly all who do not conform
-Low state of Reli~on and Learning-The Queen
exacts Passive Obedience from both Parliament and
Bishops- Curious Instances- Star Chamber and
High Commission prosecutions-of 1\lr. Cartwright
-An author, publisher, and printer, have each their
, . ,,Coogle
•t.' i PIC•
i'igllt<~lltul· cltopped·oft\·for a pamphlet :touehiag the
Q.u-eelf"'l·Courtab!p-'-"Otber Punishments....:Biabop of
Lortdbn's logic-Prisons full of Non-conformists;
lind · E:l:eoution of several-The people flee abroed
from Religious Tyranny-James I. a weathercock
1n the bands of the Bishopll-they wheedle and flatter
-him into Perse~ution and burning of Heretics-bia
attempts in Scotland-Charles I.-his fatal Educ&-
tion~his fatal coadjutor, Laud-his fatal Journey to
compel the Scots tJ receive Episcopacy-his hatred
of Bishops that were not Tyrants-Horrible mutila-
tion of Dr. Leighton--his account of his Sufferings
-Mutilation, ruin, and imprisonment of Prynne,
Bastwick, and Burton-Persecution of the Bishop
of Lincoln and Mr. Osbaldeston-Ri,eofthe Society
of Friends-Fox and his cotemporaries-their Writ-
ings and Sufferings for Religious Freedom-their
Meeting-houses pulled down - themselves cruelly
abused-enormous Fines levied on them-Amount
taken from them for Church-rates, etc.-made the
prey of Informers-vast numbers imprisoned-many
perisb-aome banished, and ,.old for slaves-aggra-
vated Tithe Cases-Summary of the Sufferings of
th~ "'on-conformists after the Restoration-Hopeless
nature of State R~ligion-State of the Clergy - 199
CHAPTER XVII.
Mi~istcr.ial plan of Irish Church Reform-See of Derry
-Statements respecting the Irish Church-its Reve-
nues-a Lay Commission requisite to ascertain their
,real Amount-Results of State Religion in Ireland
-Miserable farce of its Church Reform-English
.·Church-Injustice of compelling Dissenters to sup-
.'port the Establishment-People refuse the Church-
.rates-Tithes-their History-Inalterable nature of
Sta~c Religions-Curious Anecdotcs.-Milton's opi-
nion of a Stipendiary Clergy-Advantages of appro-
.- priating Church Property to National Education ..- 240
t. · CHAPTER XVIII.
Clefical tncome-Salaries of the Bishops.-Exposurc of
'the Abuse.of Quee~~ Anne's Bounty Fund, by the
~ : . { J . · - ' .
Coogle
CON!.'EN!J.'J. ltvll
v.,.
Edinburgh Review-IDIItaacea of the CODtinuation
of those Abuses-Plnralit.iee, and Curates' Stipenda
-Universities- Rampant conduct of the Oxford
Scholars to the early Quakers-Milton's opinion of
College Education-Eecleaiaatical Courts-Sir David
Lindsay's Satire on them-Absurdity of the popular
belief in the Consecration of Burial Grounds-Fees
of Consecration-Awkward Facts respecting Family
Vaults-Instances of Prelatic:al Despotism • • 268
CHAPTER XIX.
Evils of the system of Church Patronage-Simony and
almost all the Abuses in the Church flow from it-
Strange Defence of the Church by a Clergyman-
Proofs of the good effects of moderate Clerical In-
comes- Scottish Clergy- Growing Resistance in
Scotland to a State Church-German Clergy-False
notions of Gentility held by our Clergy- Decker's
declaration that Christ was the first true Gentleman
-What Clergymen might be-Instances of what
they are under the Patronage system-Milton and
Spelman's opinions of Surplice Fees • 300
CHAPTER XX:.
Every State Establishment a standing Libel on Christ-
ianity-and wherefore-The folly of the Cleric:al and
Tory sophism, that there will be no Religion at all
without a .State Religion, amply shewn-The testi-
mony of all History on the subject- Christianity
only flourishes in Freedom-dwindling in the caresses
of Monarchy,-but growing in spite of its hostile
power,-as in the RQ(ormation-America, exhibiting
a triumphant exampTe of the benefit ofleaving Rell-
gion to its own resources-America has decided this
great question, though she herself should perish to-
morrow-The rapid and all-sufficing spread of Reli-
gion in the United States-her Schools and Missions
-The principle of Voluntary Contribution the sole
prospering principle, as evidenced by Missions and
Dissent-Relative Proportion of Church-goers and
Dissenters-The bounden duty of every man, as a
Christian, to assist in freeing Christianity- An ex-
c
o,,, ,.,Googtc
tviii CONrBNTS,
p-
aminauoll ofthe Conlltitution of tbe Churcb of Bng·
land, u deeeribed in &l'lll'e tract of 1667, with alliU
Oftibets, ·.Jtevenun;· and Funotion-WIIM.vaa gdt
by its Restoration - - - - · • · . .o. 316
I . , •
CHAPTER XXI•
.(\11 Analysis of the Church of England, as at prese~t
existing-The King, as its head, of no use but to
plunder it, as it plunders the people-Instances of
this bead doing as it likes wilh its own- The Arch-
~hops not to be found .in Scripture-where the1 .
11re to be found-The theory of Splendour and (;rand
Prizes dissected.:_The boasted Prizes of the Cliurch
the same which the Devil offered to Our Saviour-
Bishqps of England, and Bishops of Christ-Prelacy
denounced by the early Reformers, and by many of
the later Dignitaries-Old Hugh Latimer's opinion
of Lord Bishops-Tyndars testimony-Dr. King's
-Blackwood's Magazine-Deans and Chapters an
Excrescence-No effective Discipline in the Church
-The Parochial Clergy independent of both Bishop
and People-A drunken Curate, and his odd Work
in the pulpit-Our anxiety about all elections .but.,
the election of our Preachers-only assignable reason
for this Anomaly.of National Character-Patronage
of Government-of Bishops.-Petticoat Simony-
Hogarth·a Ass !allen with Preferments-Simony in
general-A Holy Agent's Circular-Scou the Com-
mentator's opinion of Dealers in Men's Souls-Si-
monists not be bound by an Oath-Consequences
of Patronage and Simony to the Church- Mr.
Acaster'sopinion-Blackwood's Magazine, on Church
Abuses-Remarks of Foreigners on our Clergy-
Good sort of Men - , - • - 3S2
CHAPTER XXII.
A Cu.una or WoaTuin-Impolicy of waiting for Bad
Syatems to wear out-False notion that Bad Systems
are to be tolerated, for some grain of good they may
contain-While, however, we condemn Bad Syatema,
let us not condemn Innocent Men-Good Men in
all Systems-not produced by them, but in spite of
them-Fenelon-Bemard Gilpin-George Herbert
Coogle
COJ!IT.ISNTS.
P..e
~ liis CouDtry Parson, an esoellent par.iab priest'~
uiattual-WUiiam .1\Iom~n-Thv lloliaioiUil~
Eliot. Zeisbergw, Braiuerd, SW81't1, H1111s Eflede,
the 1\Ioravians in Greenland and :r..brador-0'-lin
and Neff-How is the Church of England to become
filled with su=h Men ?-By uaening ita Freedom
from the State, and putting the choice of Ministers
into the hands of the People - - - - - 8llf3
CHAPTER XXIII.
Conftnnation in the Country-ita Picturesque and Poeti-
Cal Appearance- ita Licentious ConsequeDCeS, ariainc
tTom the Apathy of the Clergy • 388
CHAPTER XXIV.
Ret~ve . View of the Elfects of Prieateraft-The
great Moral and Political Lesson it teach-Con-
cluding Remarb • 397
A VIndication of this History against· the Attack of
Archdeacon Wilkins ~ 405
'·
,,, E
:
:t.
' :.
.
:q ,._ . ;
l<'
l l··G ! I
Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL VIEW OF PRJESTCRAFT.
THis unfortunate world has been blasted in all ages
by two evil principles-Kingcraft and Priestcraft-
that, taking advantage of human necessities, in
themselves not hard-salutary, and even beneficial
in their natural operation-the necessity of civil
government, and that of spiritual instruction, have
warped them cruelly from their own pure direction,
and converted them into the most odious, the most
terrible and disastrous scourges of our race. These
malign powers have ever begun, as it were, at the
wrong end of things. Kingcraft, seizing upon the
office of civil government, not as the gift of popular
choice, and to be filled for the good of nations, but
with the desperate hand of physical violence, has
proclaimed that it was not made for man, but man
for it--that it possessed an inherent and divine right
to rule, to trample upon mens' hearts, to violate their
dearest rights, to scatter their limbs and their blood
at its pleasure upon the earth ; and, in return for
its atrocities, to be worshipped on bended knee, and
hailed as a god. Its horrors are on the face of every
nation ; its annals are written in gore in all civilized
B
2 PRIESTCRAFT
climes; and, where pen never was known, it has
scored its terrors in the hearts of millions, and left
its traces in deserts of everlasting desolation, and
in the ferocious spirits of abused and brutalized
hordes. What is all the history of this wretched
planet but a mass of its bloody wrath and detestable
oppressions, whereby it has converted earth into a
hell; men into the worst of demons; and has turned
the human mind from its natural pursuit of know-
ledge, and virtue, and social happiness, into a career
of blind rage, bitter and foolish prejudices ; an en-
tailment of awful and crime-creating ignorance ; and
has held the universal soul of man in the blackest
and most pitiable of bondage 1 Countless are its
historians ; we need not add one more to the un-
availing catalogue : but, of
That aist.er-pest, congr6~tor of slaves
Into the shadow of ita ptnions wide,
I do not know that there has been one man who
has devoted himself solely and completely to the
task of tracing its course of demoniacal devastation.
Many of its fiendish arts and exploits, undoubtedly,
are embodied in what is called ecclesiastical history ;
many are presented to us in the chronicles of king•
craft; for the two evil powers have ever been inti-
mately united in their labours. They have mutually
and lovingly supported each other; knowing that
individually they are "weak as stubble," yet con-
jointly,
Can bind
Into a mass inefragably firm
The axes and the rods which awe mankind.
Thus, through this pestilential influence, we must
admit that too much of its evil nature has l1een
forced on our observation incidentally ; but no one
clear and complete picture of it has been presented
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 3
to our view. It shall now be my task to supply to
the world this singular desideratum. It shall be my
task to shew that priestcraft in all ages and all
nations has been the same ; that its nature is one,
and that nature essentially evil ; that its object is
self-gratification and self-aggrandizement; the means
it uses-the basest frauds, the most shameless de-
lusions, practised on the popular mind for the acqui-
sition of power ; and that power once gained, the
most fierce and bloody exercise of it, in order to
render it at once awful and perpetual. I shall shew
that nothing is so servilely mean in weakness, so
daring in assumption, so arrogant in command,-
earth, heaven, the very throne and existence of God
himself beingused but as the tools of its designs, and
appealed to with horrible impudence in the most
shameless of its lies. That, professing itself merciful,
nothing on this earth, which is by no means wanting
in scenes of terror, has ever exhibited itself in shapes
of equal cruelty-cruelty, cold, selfish, and impas-
able; that, claiming sanctity as its peculiarattribute,
nothing has been so grossly debauched andlicentious;
that, assuming the mien of humility, nothing is so
impiously proud, so offensively insolent ; that, pro-
claiming to others the utter vanity of worldly goods,
its cupidity is insatiable-of worldly honours, its
ambition is boundless ; that, affecting peace and
purity, it has perpetrated the most savage wars, ay,
~ the very name of heaven, and spread far and wide
the contagion of sensuality ; _
that, in Europe, usurp-
ing the chair of knowledge, the office of promulgating
the doctrines of a religion whose very nature over-
flows with freedom, and love, and liberal enlighten-
ment, it has locked up the human mind for more than
a thousand years in the dens of ignorance ; mocked
it with the vilest baubles, the most imbecile legends;
B2
Coogle
4 PRIESTC'IU.FT
made it a prey to all the restless and savage passions
of an uncultured and daily irritated soul ; robbed it
of the highest joys of earth or heaven-those of the
exercise of a perfected intellect and a benevolent
spirit; and finally, by its tyrannies, its childish
puerilities, its inane pomps and most ludicrous dog-
mas, overwhelmed the middle ages with the horrors
of an iron bigotry, and the modem world with the
tenfold horrors of infidel heartlessness and the wars
of atheism.
This is a mighty and an awful charge. Alas ! the
annals of all people are but too affluent in proofs ofits
justice. I shall prove this through the most popnlar
histories, that the general reader may, if he please,
easily refer to them, and be satisfied of the correctness
of my statements. While I proceed, however, to
drsw these proofs from the most accessible works, I
shall carefully war alone with the principle, not with
individual men. The very worst systems have often
involved in their blind intricacies the best of men :
and in some of those which it will be my duty, as a
man, to denounce, there have been, and there are at
the present moment, numbers of sincere and excel-
lent beings, who are an honour and a blessing to their
race.
IN ALL AGES, 5
CHAPTER II.
ORIGIN 01' PAGANISM.
PRIESTCRAFT and kingcraft began at pretty much the
same time, and that at an early age of the world,
to exercise their baneful influence over it. Whether
they existed, and if so, what they did, in the ante-
diluvian world, we know not, and it concerns us
little: but immediately after the flood, they became
conspicuous. Nimrod is usually supposed to be
the first monarch; the first man who, not satisfied
with the mild patriarchal rule over his brethren, is
believed to have collected armies, dispossessed the
peaceful children of Shem of part of their territories
by violence, and swayed all whom he could by the
terrors of overwhelming force. Priestcraft, it is evi-
dent by many indubitable signs, was busily at work
at the same moment. Certain common principles
running through idolatrous worship in every known
part of the globe, have convinced the most acute and
industrious antiquarians, that every pagan worship
in the world has the same origin; and that origin
could have coincided only with some early period,
when the whole human family was together in one
place. This fact, now that countries, their habits
and opinions, have been so extensively examined,
would have led learned men of the present day, had
not the Bible been in ourpossession, to the confident
conclusion that mankind had, at first, but one source,
and one place of abode : that their religious opinions
"" ,,Coogle
6 PRIESTCRAI!'T
had been at that time unifonn : and that, dispersing
from that point of original residence, they had carried
these opinions into all regions of the earth, where,
through the progress of ages, they had received many
modifications, been variously darkened and disfigured,
but not to such an extent as to extinguish those
great leading features which mark them as the off-
spring of one primeval parent. But the Bible not
only shews that such was the origin of the various
human families, not only shews the time when they
dwelt in one place, when and how they were thence
dispersed, but also furnishes us with a certain key
to the whole theory of univenal paganism.
We see at once that every system of heathen my-
thology had its origin in the corruption ofpatriarchal
worship before the dispersion at Babel. There the
whole family of man was collected in the descendants
of Noah's three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japhat; and
thence, at that time, they were scattered abroad by
the hand of God over the world. Japhat colonized
the whole of Europe ; all those northern regions
called Tartary and Siberia ; and, in process of time,
by the easy passage of Behring's Straits, the entire
continent of America. His son Gomer seems clearly
to have been the father of those who were originally
called Gomerians ; and by slight variations, were
afterwards tenned Comarians, Cimmerians, Cymbri,
Cumbri, Cambri, and Umbri ; and, in later years,
Celts, Gauls, and Gaels. These extended themselves
over the regions north of Armenia and Bactriana ;
thence over nearly all Europe, and first planted
Britain and Ireland. Magog, Tubal, and Mesech,
as we learn from Ezekiel, dwelt far to the north of
Judea, and became the ancestors of the great Sclavo-
nic or Sarmatian families ; the name of Magog still
existing in the appellations of Mogli, Monguls, and
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 7
Mongolians ; those of Tubal and Mesech, in To-
bolski, Moschici, and Moscow and Moscovites :
Madai was father of the Medes, and Javan of the
original inhabitants of Greece, where we may trace
the names of his sons Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim,
and Dodanim, in Elis, Tarsus, Cittium, and Dodona.
The posterity of Shem were confined to southern
Asia; founding by his sons Elam, or Persia, Ashur,
or Assyria, a province of Iran, or Great Assyrian
empire of Nimrod, whose son Cush appears to have
subdued these descendants of Shem. Arphaxad
became the father of the Hebrews and other kindred
nations; his descendant Peleg founded Babylonia ;
and 1oktan, stretching far towards the east, probably
became the father of the Hindoos. Ophir, one of the
sons of Joktan, is often mentioned in Scripture as
dwelling in a land of gold, to which voyages were
made by ships issuing from the Red Sea, and sailing
eastward; but Elam and Cush occupied the whole
sea-coast of Persia, as far as the Indus. This, there-
fore, brings us to the great peninsular of Hindostan
for the seat of Ophir. Lud, th~ fourth son of Shem,
is presumed to be the founder of Lydia; and Aram,
the fifth, the father of Mesopotamia and Syria.
Ham was at first Inixed with Shem throughout
southern Asia, and became the sole occupant of
Africa. Of his sons, Cush became the founder of
Iran, or Central Asia, the great Assyrian empire,
and the progenitor ofall those called Cushim, Cushas,
Cuths, Goths, Scuths, Scyths, Scots, or Gauls.
Mizraim peopled Egypt; Phut, the western frontier
of Egypt, and thence passing west and south, spread
over the greater part of Africa: and Canaan, it is
well known, peopled the tract afterwards inhabited by
the Israelites.
Thus, it is said, was the world peopled; and that
"" ,,Coogle
8 PRIESTCRAFT
it was thus peopled, we learn not only from Moses.
but from profane writers; and find both accounts
confirmed by abundant evidence in the manners,
traditions, language, and occupance of the different
races at the present day. Sir William Jones found
only three great original languages to exist-Arabic,
Sclavonic, and Sanscrit: and these three all issue
from one point, central Asia, whence, by consent of
the most ancient records and traditions of the great
primeval nations, their original ancestors spread.
But before they were thus scattered, they had
corrupted the religious doctrines they had received
from their great progenitor, Noah; or rather, had set
them aside, in order to deify Noah and his three sons,
whom they had come to regard as a re-appearance of
Adam and his three sons, Cain, Abel, and Seth. The
singular coincidence of circumstances between Adam
and Noah, forced this upon their imaginations. Adam,
the first man, and father of the first world,-and
Noah, the first man, and father of the second world,
had each three sons conspicuous in history ; and of
these three, one in each case was a bad one--Cain
and Ham. Led by this, to consider the second family
but an avater of the first, they regarded them aa
immortal, and worshipped them. Hence we have in
all pagan mythologies a triad of principal gods. In
the Greek-Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto; in the
Hindoo-Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva; in the Egyp-
tian-Osiris, Horus, and Typhon; one of whom, in
each case, is a deity of a dark nature, like Cain and
Ham. The Persians had their Ormuzd, Mithraa,
and Ahriman; the Syrians, their Monimus, Aziz,
and Ares; the Canaanites, their Baal-Shalisha, or
self-triplicated Baal ; the Goths, their Odin, Vile,
and Ve, who are described as the three sons of the
mysterious cow, a symbol of the ark; the Jakuthi
IN ALL AGES, 9
Tartars, their Artugon, Schugo-teugon, and Tangara,
the last, even in name, the Tanga-tanga of the
Peruvians: for this singular fact stops not with the
great primitive nations; it extends itself to all others,
even to those discovered in modem times. Like
China and Japan, the Peruvians were found, on the
discovery of America, to have their triads, Apomti,
Chumnti, and Intiquoaqui; or the father-sun, the
brother-sun, and the son-sun. The Mexicans had
also their Mexitli, Tlaloc, and Tezcallipuca; the last,
the god of repentance. The Virginians, Iroquois,
and various nations of North-American Indians, held
similar notions. The New Zealanders believe that
three gods made the first man, and the first woman
from the man's rib; and their general term for bone
is Eve. The Otaheitans had a similar idea.
Thus, far and wide, to the very hidden ends of the
earth, spread this notion of a triad; and hence, in
the second century, it found its way, through Justin
Martyr, into the Christian church.
The post-diluvians likewise held the Ark in the
moat sacred veneration. It was that into which their
great father and all living things had entered and
floated away safely over the destroying waters. It
was the type of the earth into which Adam had
entered by death; and, as they supposed, re-appeared
in Noah. Hence, an ark is to be found in nearly
every system of pagan worship. After it were fash-
ioned the most ancient temples. It was borne in the
most religious processions of Osiris, Adonis, Bacchus,
Ceres, and amongst the Druids; and has been found,
to the astonishment of discoverers and missionaries,
amongst the Mexicans, the North-American Indians,
and the South-sea Islanders.
Hence, also, the doctrine of a succession of worlds,
from the supposed re-appearance of Adam and his
Coogle
10 Pll.lESTCltAFT
three sons, in Noah and his three sons, which has
expanded itself into the great system of transmigra-
tions and avaters of the Hindoos. Hence, also, the
traditions of a universal deluge to be found amongst
all the ancient nations; amongst the wild tribes of
America; amongst the Hindoos in the east, and the
Celts in the west. Hence, the close connexion of
lakes with heathen temples; and hence, lastly, the
ancient mysteries, which were but a symbolical repre:-
sentation of entering the ark, or great cave of death
and life; which, as the .old world was purified by the
flood, was supposed to purify and confer a new life on
those who passed through those mysteries, which
were celebrated, with striking similarity in Greece,
India, Egypt, and amongst the Druids in these
islands. These, and many other general features of
paganism-for abundant illustration of which, I refer
my reader to the learned works of Calmet, Bryant,
Faber, and Spencer, De Legibus Ritualibus Hebne-
orum-sufficiently testify to the common origin of all
heathen systems of worship; and we shall presently
find how amply the priests of all ages and all the Gen-
tile nations, have laid hold on these rich materials,
and converted them into exuberant sources of wealth,
and power,and honour to themselves, and ofterror, de-
ception, and degradation to their victims-the people.
It may, perhaps, be said that they themselves were
but the slaves of superstition, in common with those
they taught ; and that it would be unfair to charge
them with the wilful misleading of their auditors,
when they themselves were blinded by the common
delusions of their times and countries. But we must
recollect, that though the people were taught by them
to believe, and could not, in dark times, easily escape
the influence of their doctrines and practices, studi-
ously adapted to dazzle and deceive the senses, yet it
IN ALL AGES. 11
was impossible for the priests to enter upon their
Qffice, without discovering that those terrors were
fictitious,-without finding that they were called
upon to maintain a series of utter fallacies. The
people might listen to oracles, uttered amid a multi-
tude of imposing pageants, and awful solemnities ; in
the sacred gloom of temples and groves ; and might
really believe that a god spoke. But where were the
priests? Behind these scenes !-and must soon have
found that, instead ofthe inspiration of a present god,
they themselves were the actors of the vilest imposi-
tions; which, through the temptations of power, and
fame, and wealth, they became the willing means of
fixing on their countrymen.
When did any one, in any nation, on discovering
that he had entered an order of impostors, renounce
their connexion, and abandon his base calling?
Never !-the spirit of priestcraft was too subtly
potent for him. He either acquiesced readily in
measures, which were to him, pregnant with honour,
ease, and abundance ; or saw that instant destruction
awaited him, from the wily and merciless spirit of
priestcraft, if be gave but a symptom of abjuring, or
disclosing its arcana ofgainful deceit. As the entrance
of the Adytus of the mysteries, so the vestibule of
the priestly office was probably guarded by naked
swords, and oaths full of destruction to the back-
slider. Be that as it may, there is not a fact on the
face of history more conspicuous than this-that no
order of men has ever clung to the service of its
caste, or has fulfilled its purposes, however desperate,
or infamously cruel they might be, with the same
fiery and un1linching zeal as priests.
, Coogle
12 PB.lBSTCB.AFT
CHAPTER III.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE ASSYRIANS AND SYRIANS.
WE have now seen how idolatry was diffused over
the glohe, forming a field of no less amplitude than
the world itself for priestcraft to exercise itself in ;
full of ignorance, and full of systems prolific in all
the wild creation of superstition so auspicious to
priestly desires ; and we shall soon see that such
advantages were not neglected by that evil power,
but were eagerly laid hold on, and by its indefa-
tigable activity the earth was speedily overrun by
every curse, and horror, and pollution, that can fix
itselfon unfortunate humanity.
We shall take a hasty survey of its progress in the
most ancient nations, Syria and Assyria ; we shall
then pass rapidly into Scandinavia and the British
Isles, following the course of Druidism ; and, without
regard to the order of time, glance at the confirma-
tion of this ancient state of things, by that which
was found to exist at the time of their discovery in:
America and the isles of the Indian Ocean. By this
plan we shall leave our course clear in a direct pro-
gress through ancient Egypt, Greece, and Hindostan;
where we shall leave the review of priestcraft as it
existed in Paganism, and contemplate its aspect in
1udea, under the direct ordinances of God; then,
under Christianity, in the Romish church; and,
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 13
finally, in the ecclesiastical establishment of our own
country.
The Bible furnishes us with abundant evidences
of what idolatry was in Syria, and the neighbouring
kingdoms of Philistia, Moab, Amalek and others.
The principal gods of these countries were Baal,
Moloch, and Chemosh : but the number of false
gods altogether was extremely numerous. The
more gods the more shrines, the more priestly gains
and in1l.uence. The principal characteristics of the
whole idol dynasty, were horrible cruelty and gross
licentiousness. Chemosh was the god of the Moab-
ites, and his rites were particularly distinguished by
their lasciviousness. In Syria those of Ashtaroth, or
Astarte, the queen of heaven, were similar ; but Baal
and Moloch were the very impersonations of savage
atrocity. Moloch is represented as a huge metallic
image in a sittingposture, which, on days of sacrifice,
was heated to redness in a pit of fire, and young
children were brought as victims, and placed in his
extended and burning arms, where they were con-
sumed in the most exquisite agonies, while the
devilish band of priests and their retainers drowned
their piercing cries with the stunning din of drums,
cymbals, horns, and trumpets. '
Baal, however, was the principal idol of all those
countries; and-associated as he was in idea with the
sun, as was the chief god of all pagan nations, from
a fanciful process of imagination, treated of at large
by writers on this subject, but which .we need not
trace here--to him, on almost every lofty eminence,
fires were kindled at stated periods, and human sa-
crifices performed in the midst of unbounded and
infernal glee. The Beal-fires, or Baal-fires, kindled
on the mountains of Scotland and Ireland by the
peasantry at Beltane, or May Eve, are the last remains
of this most ancient and universal superstition.
14 PB.IESTCI.AFT"
When we recollect over what an immense extent
of country, in fact over the greater part of the habit-
able globe, this idolatry extended; and the number of
ages, from the time of the flood to the time of Chris-
tianity, a period of upwards of two thousand years;
what a terrible sum of miseries must have been
inflicted on our race by the diabolical zeal and
cupidity of pagan priestcraft. From the temple
of Buddh and Jaggemath in India, to the stony
circles of Druidism in Europe ; from the snowy
wastes of Siberia and Scandinavia in the north, to
the most southern lands in Africa and America, the
fires of these bloody deities rejoiced the demoniac
priests and consumed the people.
Mr. Bryant contends, and his theory seems both
supported by strong facts and is generally admitted
by intelligent historians, that the kindred of Nimrod,
the tribe of Cush, a haughty and dominant race, dis-
daining labour or commerce, disdaining all profes-
sions but those of arms or the priesthood, followed
the progress of diffusive population into all regions,
and either subduing the original settlers or insinuat-
ing themselves amongst them, as they had been their
general corruptors, became their generals, priests,
and kings. This theory certainly agrees well with
what the researches of late years have made known of
the great tribes of emigration from the east ; agrees
well with what we know of the Gothic or Cuthic na-
tions, and with the establishment of the despotism
of the feudal system. Castes, which remain so un-
broken to the present day in Hindostan, and on
which we shall have presently to remark, prevailed,
in a greater or less degree, all over the world. In
Egypt, Herodotus shews it to have been the case.
None bnt kings and priests were noble. In Greece
they had their rsce of demi-gods, or descendants of
the ancient Pelaagi, or Cuthites, from whom their
Coogle
IN ALL A.GES; 15
priests, augurs, and kings were chosen. Such was
the case amongst the Gauls and Britons. The Druids
were a sacred and noble caste, who disdained to work
or mingle with the people ; an insult to one of whom
was instant death, as it is with the Brahmins at the
present day : and the strong spirit of caste through-
out all the feudal nations of Europe, not only all
past history, but present circumstances, shew us.
Be the origin of dominant castes what it may, no-
thing is more conspicuous than their existence, and
the evils, scorns, and ignominious burdens they have
heaped upon the people.
Of the rancorous activity of the heathen priest-
hood to proselyte and extend their influence on all
sides, the Jewish history is full. Scarcely had the
Hebrews escaped from Egypt and entered theDesert,
when the Moabites came amongst them with their
harlot daughters, carrying beneath their robes the
images of Chemosh, and scattering among the frail
1ews the mingled fires of sensual and idolatrous pas-
sion. Through the whole period of the adminis-
tration of the Judges, they were indefutigably at
work, imd brought upon the backsliding Hebrews
the vengeance of their own living and indignant God.
The wise and magnificent Solomon they plucked
from the height of his peerless knowledge and glory,
and rendered the reigns of his successors continual
scenes of reproofand desolation, till the whole nation
wss swept into captivity.
There cannot be a more expressive instance of the
daring hardihood and funatic zeal of the priests of
Baal, nor a finer one of their defeat and punishment,
than that given on Mount Carmel in the days of
Ahab and Jezebel. Those pestilential wretches had
actually, under royal patronage, corrupted or destroy-
ed the whole legitimate priesthood. There were but
16 PRIESTCRAFT
left seven- thousand, even of the people, " who had
not bowed the knee to Baal, nor kissed him." They
were in pursuit of the noble prophet himself, when
he came forth and challenged them to an actual proof
of the existence of their respective deities.
It may be argued that the readiness with which
they accepted this challenge, is sufficient evidence
that they themselvee were believers in the existence
of their deity; and it may be that some were stupid,
or fanatic enough.to be so; but it is far likelier that,
possessing royal patronage, and a whole host of base
and besotted supporters, they hoped to entrap the
solitary man: that, knowing the emptiness of their
own pretensions, they were of opinion that Elijah's
were equally empty, and therefore came boldly to a
contest, in which if neither party won, an individual
against a host would easily be sacrificed to priestly
fury and popular credulity. Be it as it might,
nothing is more certain than that the ferocious zeal of
priestcraft, for its own objects, has been in all ages so
audacious as not to fear rushing, in the face of the
world, on the most desperate attempts. This event
was most illustrative of this blind sacerdotal hardi-
hood; for, notwithstanding their signal exposure and
destruction, yet in every successive age of the Hebrew
kingdom, the pagan priests ceased not to solicit the
Israelites to their ruin. The Hebrew kings, ever
and anon, awoke from the trance of delusion into
which they drew them, and executed ample vengeance;
hewing down their groves, and overturning their
altars; but it was not till the general captivity,-till
Judah was humbled for a time, before Babylon, and
Israel was wholly and for ever driven from the land,
that the pest was annihilated.
The mythology of Assyria was of much the same
nature ;-Baal, however, being there held in far
IN ALL AGES. 17
higher honour than all other gods ; for the priesthood,
according to the servile cunning of its policy, had
flattered the royal house by deifying its founder, and
identifying him with the sun by the name of Belus, or
Bel. What I have already said of this god will
suffice; and I shall only state that, as the priesthood
there had shewn its usual character of adulation to
the high, and cruelty to the low, so it displayed
almost more than its customary lewdness. Herodotus
tells us, that " at the top of the tower of Belus, in a
chapel, is placed a couch magnificently adorned: and
near it a table ofsolid gold; but there. is no statue in
the place. No man is suffered to sleep here, but a
female occupies the apartment, whom the Chaldean
priests affirm their deity selects from the whole
nation as the object of his pleasures. They declare
that their deity enters this apartment by night; and
reposes upon this couch. A similar assertion is
made by the Egyptians of Thebes ; for in the interior
part of the temple of the Thebean Jupiter, a woman,
in like manner, sleeps. Of these two women, it is
presumed, that neither of them have any communica-
tion with the other sex. In which predicament, the
priestess of the temple of Paterre, in Lycia, is also
placed. Here is no regular oracle; but whenever a
divine communication is expected, the woman is
obliged to pass the preceding night in the temple."
That is, the priests made their god the scape-goat of
their own unbridled sensuality ; an~, under the pre-
text of providing a sacrifice of beauty to the d~ity,
selected the most lovely woman of the nation for
themselves.
This species of detestable deception, seems to have
been carried on to an enormous extent in ancient
times. If we a,re to believe all the Grecian stories,
c
18 PRIESTCRAFT
and especially the Homeric ones, of the origin of their
demi-gods, we can only explain them in this manner.
A circumstance of the same nature is related by
Josephus ; which is curious, because the priests of the
temple in that case, were induced by a young noble
to inveigle a married lady of whom he bad become
enamoured, into the temple, under pretence that the
god had a loving desire of her company, and shewed
that the gratification, not merely of themselves, but
of men in power, by frauds, however infamous or
diabolical, has been always a priestly practice.
But to return to Assyria. The seeds of licentious-
ness, sown by their early priests, grew and spread
abundantly in after ages. When the Assyrian was
merged in the Babylonian empire, the orgies of the
temple of Mylitta, the Babylonian Venus, were in-
famous above all others; so much so, that every
woman, whether high or low, was bound by the
national practice to present herself before the temple
once in her life, and there submit to prostitute
herself with whoever first chose her; aad the price
of her shame was paid into the treasury, to swell the
revenues of the priests. So horrible a fact has been
doubted ; but Herodotlls seriously asserts it, and it
has been confirmed by other authorities.
That these crafty and voluptuous priests were not
amongst those deceived by their own devices, but
were solely deceivers, living in honour and abundance
by juggling the people, we need no better testimony
than that of the story of Bel and the Dragon. They
are there represented as setting before the idol
splendid banquets, which he was asserted to devour
in the night; but Daniel scattering sand on the floor,
shewed the people in the morning the footsteps of the
priests, their wives and children, who bad, as they
llf ALL AGES. 19
were regularly accustomed, flocked into the temple
at night, and helped the god to dispatch his viands.
Though this story is one of those called apocryphal,
it is certainly so far true, that it shews what were the
opinions of the wise at that day, of the priests,
founded, no doubt, on sufficient observation.
c2
20 PB.IESTCRAI'T
CHAPTER IV.
CELTS AND GOTHS.
WITHOUT following minutely the progress of original
migration, from east to west, through the great
Scythian deserts, we will now at once open upon the
human family as it appeared in Europe, when the
Romans began to extend their conquests into the
great forests and wild lands of its north-western
regions: and here, again, we behold with surprise,
how exactly the nations had preserved those features
of idolatrous superstition which I have before stated
to be universal, and which we have been contemplating
in central Asia.
Part of southern Europe appears to have been
peopled by one great branch of the descendants of
Japhet, under the name of Sclavonians, and to have
maintained their settlements against all future comers:
but another great branch, the Gomerians, or Celts,
had been followed by the warlike and domineering
Goths, and had, in some cases, received from them
teachers and governors ; in others, had been totally
expelled by them, or lost character, language, and
every thing, in their overwhelming tide. The north-
ern parts of Britain, Ireland, Wales, Gaul, and some
other districts, retained the Celtic character ; while
England, Scandinavia, Germany, Belgium, and some
other tracts, became decided!y Gothic. Of these facts,
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 21
the very languages of the respective countries, at the
present day, remain living proofs. But, whatever
was the name, the language, or the government of
the different parts of Europe, everywhere its religion
was essentially the same ; everywhere the same
Cuthic race of domineering priests. Everywhere,
says a sagacious antiquarian, "we find, first, an order
of priests; secondly, an order of military nobles;
thirdly, a subjugated multitude; and institutions, the
spirit of which, is that of thrusting the lower orders
from all place and authority, and systematically doom-
ing them to an unalterable state of servile depression."
Whoever will examine the system of the Druids, as
he may in Toland's history of them, in Borlace's
Cornwall, or Davis's Celtic Mythology, will be per-
fectly convinced of its identity with that of Persia,
Egypt, and Hindostan. Their triads, their own as-
sumed sanctity of character, their worship of the god
Hu, the Buddhu of the east; their traditions of the
flood ; the ark, which their circular stone temples
symbolized; their human sacrifices ; their doctrine
oftransmigration; and other abundant characteristics,
are not to be mistaken. Dr. Borlace was so struck
with the perfect resemblance of the Druids to the
Persian Magi and the Indian Brahmins, that he
declared it was impossible to doubt their identity.
Mr. Rowland argues in the same manner with regard
to the Irish Druids, who, as usual, constituted the
first of the three classes into which the community
was divided. He feels assured that they must have •
been Magi. Long indeed before our time, Pliny had
made the same remark, applying the very term of
Magi to them.
In Gaul, Cresar found precisely the same state of
things-the same dominant class ; and has left so
lucid an account of them, that his representation will,
22 PRIESTCRAPT
at once, place before us the actual condition of both
Gaul and Britain. "Over all Gaul there are only
two orders of men in any degree of honour and
esteem : for the common people are little better than
slaves; attempt nothing of themselves ; and have no
share in the public deliberations. As they are gene-
rally oppressed with debt, heavy tributes, or the
exactions of their superiors, they make themselves
vassals to the great, who exercise over them the same
jurisdiction that masters do over slaves. The two
orders of men with whom, as we have said, all autho-
rity and distinctions reside, are the Druids and nobles.
The Druids preside in matters of religion, have the
care of public and private sacrifices, and interpret the
will ofthe gods. They have the direction and education
of the youth, by whom they are held in great honour.
In almost all controversies, whether public or private,
the decision is left to them ; and if any crime is com-
mitted, any murder perpetrated, if any dispute arises
touching an inheritance, or the limits of adjoining
estates, in all such cases they are supreme judges.
They decree rewards and punishments ; and if any one
refuse to submit to their sentence, whether magistrate
or private man, they interdict him the sacrifices.
This is the greatest punishment that can be inflicted
upon the Gauls ; because, such as are under this
prohibition, are considered as impious and wicked ;
all men shun them, and decline their conversation
and fellowship, lest they should suffer from the con-
tagion of their misfortunes. They can neither have
recourse to the law for justice, nor are capable of any
public office. The Druids are all under one chief.
Upon his death, a successor is elected by suffrage ;
but sometimes they have recourse to arms before the
election can be brought to issue. Once a year, they
atsemble at a consecrated place in the territories of
IN ALL AGES. 23
the Camutes, whose country is supposed to be in the
middle of Gaul. Hither such as have any suits
depending, flock from all parts, and submit implicitly
to their decrees. Their institution is supposed to
have come originally from Britain ; and even at thia
day, such as are desirous of being perfect in it, travel
thither for mstruction. The Druids never go to war;
are exempt from taxes and military service, and enjoy
all manner of immunities. These mighty encourage-
ments induce multitudes of their own accord to follow
that profession, and many are sent by their parents.
They are taught to repeat a great number of verses
by heart, and often spend twenty years upon this in-
stitution; for it is deemed unlawful to commit their
statutes to writing, though on other matters, private
or public, they use Greek characters. They seem to
have adopted this method for two reasons,-to hide
their mysteries from the knowledge ofthe vulgar, and
to exercise the memory oftheir scholars. It is one of
their principal maxims, that the soul never dies, but
after death, passes from one body to another. They
teach likewise many things relative to the stars, the
magnitude of the world and our earth, the nature of
things, and the power and prerogative of the im-
mortal gods.
" The other order of men is the nobles, whose
study and occupation is war. Before Cresar's arrival
in Gaul, they were almost every year at war, offensive
or defensive ; and they judge of the power and
quality of their nobles, by the vassals and number of
men they keep in pay. ·
" The whole nation of the Gauls is extremely
addicted to superstition, whence, in threatening dis-
tempers, and the imminent danger of war, they make
no scruple to sacrifice men, or engage themselves by
vow to such aacrifices ; in which case, they make use
24 PRIESTCRAFT
of the ministry of the Druids; for it is a prevalent
opinion amongst them, that nothing but the life of
man can atone for the life of man, insomuch that
they have established even public sacrifices of this
kind. Some prepare huge Colossuses of osier twigs,
into which they put men alive, and setting fire to
them, those within expire amongst the flames. They
prefer for victims such as have been convicted of
theft, robbery, or other crimes, believing them the
most acceptable to the gods: but when such are
wanting, the innocent are made to suffer.
" The Gauls fancy themselves to be descended
from the god Pluto, which, it seems, is an established
tradition amongst the Druids ; and for this reason
they compute time by nights, not by days.
" The men have power of life and death over their
wives and families ; and when any father of a family
of illustrious rank dies, his relations assemble, and
upon the least ground ofsuspicion, put even his wives
to the torture, like slaves. Their funerals are magni-
ficent and sumptuous, according to their quality.
Everything that was dear to the deceased, even
animals, are thrown into the fire; and formerly, such
of their slaves and clients that they loved most,
sacrificed themselves at the funeral oftheir lords."
In this valuable account, the striking resemblance
of the Druids to the Brahmins, must impress every
one,-not the least their funeral rites, and doctrine of
metempsychosis. But there are some other things
equally curious. We have here the BAN,-that
tremendous ecclesiastical engine, which the Romish
church most probably borrowed of the Goths ; and
which we shall find it hereafter wielding to such
appalling purpose. The tradition of the Druids, that
they are descended of Pluto, is, too, a most remark-
able circumstance; agreeing so perfectly with the
IN ALL AGES. 25
theory of Bryant, that they were Cuths, the descend-
ants of Ham, the Pluto of mythology.
Cresar proceeds to give Roman names to Gallic
gods. This was the common practice of the Romans ;
a fact, which, as it is known from other sources that
the Druids never gave them such names, only proves
that the Romans named them from their obvious
attributes; again confirming Bryant's theory, that
however the ethnic gods be named, they are essen-
tially identical. Cresar also adds, that the Germans
differed widely from the Gauls, having no Druids,
and troubling not themselves about sacrifices: but
Tacitus, who is better evidence than Cresar, where
the Germans are concerned, assures us that they had·
priests and bards. That " jurisdiction is vested in
the priests ; it is theirs to sit in judgment on all
offences. By them delinquents are put in irons, and
chastised with stripes ; the power of punishing is in
no other hands." He adds, "to impress on their
minds the idea of a tUtelar deity, they carry with
them to the field of battle certain images and banners,
taken from their usual depositaries, the groves ; and
that one of these symbols was a ship--the emblem of
Isis." This, from what we now know of mythologies,
is a certain evidence of the eastern origin of their
religion :-the ship being the ark, or ship of the
world ; and Isis, the great mother of all things, the
earth. He assures us that they had also human
sacrifices.
The last European country we will now notice,
shall be Scandinavia. M. Mallet's most interesting
antiquities of those regions were written before our
eastern knowledge was so much enlarged, and before
Mr. Bryant had promulgated his theory of the origin
of paganism; and, therefore, when we come to open
his volumes, we are proportionably astonished and
Googk
26 J'B.IESTC&AI"J
delighted to find all the curious partieulars he hal
collected of the Scandinavian gods and religious ritee
80 absolutely confumatory of that theory. Here
again we have the same gods, under the diff.enmt
Jl&llleB of Odin, Thor, Loke, with Frigga or Frea, the
goddess of the earth, the great mother. Here agaiB
we have the same dominant caste of priests reigniDg
amid the same assemblage of horrors and pollution.
The priests, he saya, of these inhuman gods were
called Drottes, a name equivalent to Druids. They
were frequently styled prophets, wise men, divine men.
At Upsal, each of the three superior deities had their
respective priests, the principal of whom to the num-
ber of twelve, presided over the sacrifices, and exer-
cised an unlimited authority over every thing which
aeemed to have connexion with religion. The respect
ahewn to them was suitable to their authority. Sprong,
for the most part, from the 1ame family, like those of
the 1ews, they persuaded the people that this family
had God himself for its founder. They often united
the priesthood and the sovereignty in their own per-
IODS, after the example of Odin their progenitor.
The goddess Frigga was usually served by kings'
daughters, whom they called prophetesses and god-
desses. These pronounced oracles ; devoted them-
eelvea to perpetual virginity ; and kept up the sacred
fire in the temple. The power of inflicting pains and
penalties, of striking and binding a criminal. waa
vested in the priests alone ; and men so haughty that
they thought themselves dishonoured if they did not
revenge the slightest offence, would tremblingly aub-
mit to blows, and even death itself, from the hand of
a pontiff, whom they took for the instrument of an
angry deity. In short, the credulity of the people,
and the craft and presumption of the priests went 80
far, that theae pretended interpreters of the divine
, . ,,Coogle
llf ALL AGBS. . 2'7
will, dared even to demand, in the name of heaven,
the blood of kings themselves, and obtained it! To
succeed in this, it was requisite only for them to avail
themselves of those times of calamity, when the
people, distracted with fear and sorrow, laid their
minds open to the most horrid impressions. At these
times, while the prince was slaughtered at one of the
altars of the gods, the others were covered with the
offerings, which were heaped up on all sides for their
ministers.
But the general cause which regulated these sacri-
fices, was a superstitious opinion, which made the
northern natives regard the number THREE as sacred
and peculiarly dear to the gods. Thus every ninth
month they renewed this bloody ceremony, which was
to last nine days, and every day they offered up nine
victims, whether men or animals. But the most
~tolemn sacrifices were those which were offered at
Upsal in Sweden, every ninth year. Then the king,
the senate, and all the principal citizens were obliged
to appear in person, and to bring offerings, which
were placed in the great temple. Those who could
not come, sent their presents by others, or paid their
value in money to priests, whose business it was to
receive the offerings. Strangers flocked there in
crowds from all parts, and none were excluded except
those whose honour was stained, and especially such
as had been accused of cowardice. Then they chose
amongst the captives, in time of war, and amongst
the slaves in time of peace, nine persons to be sacri-
ficed. The choice was partly regulated by the
opinion of by-standers, and partly by lot. The
wretche1 upon whom it fell were then treated with
mch honours by all the assembly ; they were so
overwhelmed with caresses for the present, and pro-
mil~ for the life to come, that they sometimes con-
28 PRIESTCRAFT
gratulated themselves on their destiny. But they
did not alwaye sacrifice such mean persons. In great
calamities, in a pressing famine, for example, if the
people thought they had some pretext to impute the
cause of it to the king, they sacrificed him without
hesitation, as the highest price they could pay for
the divine favour. In this manner the first king of
Vermland was burnt in honour of Odin, to put away
a great dearth. The kings in their turn did not spare
the blood of their people ; and many of them even
that of their children. Hacon, king of Norway,
offered his son in sacrifice to obtain a victory over
his enemy, Harold. Aune, king of Sweden, devoted
to Odin the blood of his nine sons, to prevail on the
god to prolong his life. The ancient history of the
north abounds in similar examples.
These abominable sacrifices were accompanied with
various ceremonies. When the victim was chosen,
they conducted him towards the altar, where the
sacred fire was kept burning night and day. It was
surrounded by all sorts of iron and brazen vessels.
Among them one was distinguished by its superior
size ; in this they received the blood of their victim.
When they offered up animals, they speedily killed
them at the foot of the altar ; then they opened their
entrails and drew auguries from them, as among the
Romans : but when they sacrificed men, those they
pitched upon were laid upon a large stone, and
quickly strangled or knocked on the head. Some-
times they let out the blood, for no presage was more
respected than that which they drew from the greater
or less degree of impetuosity with which the blood
gushed out. The bodies were afterwards burnt, or
suspended in a sacred grove near the temple. Part
of the blood was sprinkled upon the people, on the
grove, on the idol, altar, benches and wall of the
temple, within and without.
IN ALL AGEl!. 29
Sometimes the sacri1ices were varied. There was
a deep well in the neighbourhood of the temple ; the
chosen person was thrown headlong in, commonly in
honour of Goya, or the earth. If it went at once to
the bottom, it had proved agreeable to the goddess ;
if not, she refused it, and it was hung up in a sacred
forest. Near the temple of Upsal there was a grove
of this sort, every tree and every leaf of which was
regarded as the most sacred thing in the world. This,
which was named Odin's grove, was full of the bodies
of men and animals which had been sacri1iced. The
temple at Upsal was as famous for its oracles as its
sacrifices. There were also celebrated ones at Dalia,
a province of Sweden, in Norway, and Denmark. It
should seem that the idols of the gods themselves
delivered the oracles tJiva r;oce. In an ancient Ice-
landic chronicle, we read of one Indred, who went
from home to wait for Thorstein, his enemy. Thor-
stein, upon his arrival, went into the temple. In it
was a stone, probably a statue, which he had been
accustomed to worship. He prostrated himself before
it, and prayed it to inform him of his destiny. Indred,
who stood without, heard the stone chant forth these
verses-" It is for the last time: it is with feet draw-
ing near to the grave, that thou art come to this place,
for it is most certain that before the sun riseth the
valiant Indred shall make thee feel his hatred."
The people persuaded themselves sometimes that
these idols answered by a gesture, or nod of the head.
Thus in the history of Olave Tryggeson, king of
Norway, we see a lord, named Hacon, who enters into
a temple, and prostrates himself before an idol which
held in its hand a great bracelet of gold. Hacon,
adds the historian, easily conceiving that so long as
the idol would not part with the bracelet, it was not
disposed to be reconciled to him, and having made
Coogle
80 PRIESTCRAPT
some fruitless efforts to take the bracelet away, began
to pray afresh, and to offer it presents ; then getting
np a second time, the idol loosed the bracelet, and he
went away very well pleased.
But they had not only their bloody sacrifices, and
their oracles, but their orgies of licentiousness. These
occurred on the occasion of the feast of Frigga, the
goddess of love and pleasure ; and at Uulel, the feast
of Thor, in which the license was carried to such a
pitch as to become merely bacchanalian meetings,
where, amidst shouts, dancing, and indecent gestures,
so many unseemly actions were committed as to
disgust the wiser part of the community.
,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 31
CHAPTER V.
NOBTBERN INDIANS, KEXICANS, AND Pl!:BUVIANS.
WB have just seen that the same baleful superstitions
extended themselves from the east to the very extremi-
ties of Europe ; but we must now share in the aston- ·
iabment of the discoverers of America, to find them
equally reigning and rendering miserable the people
there. A new world was found, which had been hid-
den from the day of creation to the fifteenth Christian
age ; yet there, through that long lapse of time, it
was discovered, the same dominant spirit, and the
same terrible system of paganism had been existing.
Tbe learned of Europe, on this great event, were
extremely puzzled for a time, to conceive how and
whent!e this distant continent had been peopled. The
proven proximity of Asia at Behring& Straits, solved
the mystery. But had not this become apparent, ao
identical are the superstitions, the traditions and
practices of the Americans, with those of ancient
.Aaia, that we might have confidently pronounced
them to have come from that great seminary of the
human race.
The North-American Indians, who preserved both
most of their liberty, their simplicity of life and of
sentiment, worshipping only the GTeat Spirit, and
refusing to have any image of deity ; having in
32 PlUES'l'CB.A FT
general no priests, yet retained many, and very clear,
traditions of the primeval world. So striking were
these facts, combined with the Asiatic aspects of the
Indians in their better days, before European oppre!'-
sions and European vices had wasted and degraded
them, that the early missionaries and visitants of
America, Adair, Branaird, Charlevoix, nay, William
Penn himself, were strongly persuaded that they had
found the lost ten tribes of Israel. When they saw
them carrying before them to battle an ark ; saw them
celebrating feasts of new moons, and heard them talk
of the times when the angels of God walked upon
earth with their ancestors ; talk of the two fim
people ; of the two first brothers, one of whom slew
the other ; of the flood, and similar traditionary facts ;
it is not wonderful that they should have adopted
such a notion,-not perceiving, as we do now, that
these are familiar features of the Asiatic nations ; and
that though they did not prove them to be Hebrews,
they did to a certainty prove them to oe Asiatics.
I must here passingly notice one inference, which
seems unaccountably to have escaped the minds of
antiquarians, connected with the peopling of this
continent. In theNorth-American wilds, exist strange
mounds and foundations of old fortifications, cairns,
or burying-places, in which earthem vessels and other
artificial remains are found, which prove that some
people occupied these forests long before the present
race of Indians ; a people who had more of the arts
of civilized life amongst them than these ever pos-
sessed. In certain caves of Kentucky, mummies have
even been found. Now connecting theee facts with
the universal traditions of the Mexicans and South
Americans, that they came originally from a country
far to the north-west, does it not seem clear enough
that these remains were the traces of the earlier
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 33
Asiatics who entered America, and who, if the same
as the Mexicans and Peruvians, unquestionably
possessed more of civilization and its arts than the
northern tribes ?-that other tribes more savage
and warlike followed them ; and that they them-
selves gradually sought fresh settlements, in ac-
cordance with their own traditions. This simple
theory seems to solve the problem which has so
long puzzled both the European and American ·anti-
quarians.
The Natchez, who had advanced far before other
tribes in their civil institutions, worshipped the sun,
and maintained, like the Persians, the perpetual fire,
his symbol, in their temples. They burnt, on the
funeral pile of their chiefs, human victims ; giving
them, according to M. Dumont, large piles of tobacco
to stupify them, as the Brahmins intoxicate their
victims to the same hideous custom. Ministers
were appointed to watch and maintain the sacred
fire : the first function of the great chief, every
morning, was an act of obeisance to the sun ; and
festivals, at stated periods, were held in his hon-
our. Amongst the people of Bogota, the sun and
moon were likewise the great objects of adoration.
Their system of religion was more regular and com-
plete, though less pure than that of the Natchez.
They had temples, altars, priests, sacrifices, and that
long train of ceremonies which superstition intro-
duces, wherever she has fully established her influ-
ence over the human mind. But the rites of their
worship were bloody and cruel : they offered human
victims to their deities, and nearly resembled the
Mexicans in the genius oftheir religion.
To the Mexicans and Peruvians we shall, indeed,
principally confine our observations. These nations
had grown to comparative greatness, and assumed a
D
Google
34 PRIESTCRAFT
decided fonn of civil polity, and many of the rites of
what is called civilized life ; and in such nations the
combined power of kingcraft and priestcraft has been
always found to be proportionably strong. In those
conspicuous nations there were found all the great
features of that superstition which they had brought
with them from Asia, and which we have already
seen spread and tyrannized over every quarter of the
old world. They had their triads of gods ; their
worship of the sun; their worship of the evil and
vindictive principle ; and worship of serpents. They
had the same dominant caste of priests and nobles;
the same abject one of the common people ; human
sacrifices ; the burning of slaves and dependants on
the funeral pile ; they had the ark ; the doctrine of
successive worlds ; and the patriarchal traditions.
In the first place, their castes.-Robertson, on the
authority of Herrera, says,-" In• tracing the great
lines of the Mexican constitution, an image of feud!V
policy rises to our view, in its most rigid fonn; and
we discern, in their distinguishing characters, a no·
bility possessing almost independent authority ; a
people depressed into the lowest state of dejection;
and a king entrusted with the executive power of the
state. Its spirit and principles seem to have operated
in the new world in the same mauner as in the an·
cient. The jurisdiction of the crown was extremely
limited ; all real and effective authority was retained
by the nobles. In order to secure full effect to these
constitutional restraints, the Mexican nobles did not
permit the crown to descend by inheritance, but dis·
posed of it by election. The great body of the
people was in a most humiliating state. A con·
siderable number, known by the name of Mayeques,
could not change their place of residence without
permission of the superior to whom they belonged·
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 35
They were conveyed, together with the lands on
which they were eettled, from one proprietor to
another ; and were bound to cultivate the ground,
and perfonn several kinds of servile·work. Others
were reduced to the lowest fon'n of subjection, that of
domestic servitude, and felt the utmost rigour of that
wretched state. Their condition was held to be so
vile, and their lives deemed of so little value, that a
person who killed one of them was not subjected to
any punishment. Even those considered as freemen
were treated by their haughty lords as beings of an
inferior species. The nobles, possessed of ample
territories, were divided into various ·classes, to each
of which peculiar titles of honour belonged. The
people, not allowed to wear a dress ·of the same
fashion, or to dwell in housea of a fonn similar to
those of the nobles, accosted them with the most
submissiv.e reverence. In the presence of their
sovereign they durst not lift their ·eyes from the
ground, or look him in the face. · The nobles them•
selves, when admitted to an audience, entered bare-
footed, in mean garments, and, as slaves, paid him
homage approaching to adoration. The respect due
from inferiors to those above them in rank, was pre-
scribed with such ceremonious accur~y, that it in-
corporated with the language, and influenced its
genius and idiom. The style and appellations used
in the intercourse between equals, would have been
so unbecoming in the mouth of an inferior to one of
higher rank, that it would have been deemed an
insult."
What a lively picture of that system of domination
in the few, and slavery in the multitude, which we
have seen, or soon shall see, to have prevailed in all
regions ; in the feudal lands of Europe ; in India
and Egypt! and how perfect is the resemblance,
D2
Coogle
36 PRIESTCRAJI'T
when we find, as we shall, that at the head of all
these were the priests, who, says Faber, formed a
regular hierarchy, and dwelt together in cloistera
attached to their temples. So likewise in Peru, the
royal family, that which constituted the nobility,
were viewed as an entirely distinct race by the abject
plebeians : and they studiously preserved the purity
of their high blood, by intermarrying solely amongst
themselves. With these in the government of the
commonalty were associated the priesthood, who, as
in Mexico, were no straggling body, but a well-
organized fraternity.
With respect to their triads, the same author says,
the Peruvians supposed Viracocha to be the creator
of the gods: subordinate to him, they believed two
triads ; connecting, like the natives of tlie eastern
continent, the triple offspring of the great father with
the sun; and, as in the case of Jupiter, with the
thunder. The first consisted of Chuquilla, Catuilla,
and lntyllapa ; or the father-thunder, the son-thun-
der, and the brother-thunder; the second of Apomti,
Churunti, and lnti-quaoqui; as the father-sun, the
son-sun, and the brother-sun. Nor were they satis-
fied with these two principal triads. So strongly
were they impressed with the notion of three deities
inferior to that primeval god who sprung from the
sea, that they had likewise three images of Chuquilla,
himself a person of the first triad ; as the Persian
Mythras was not only one with Oromasdes and
Ahriman, but was also said to have triplicated him-
self. They had also an idol Tangatanga, which they
said was one-in-three and three-in-one. Added to
these, they venerated, like the pagans of the eastern
hemisphere, a great universal mother; and what
shews further the genuine character of this great
demiurgic man of the sea, Noah, the superior of their
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 37
multiplied triad, the badge of the Inca, was a rain-
bow and two snakes; the one allusive to the deluge,
the other the symbols of the two great parents of
both gods and men. Purchas, in his Pilgrimage,
quaintly calls this triad, an apish imitation of the
Trinity brought in by the devil. Their worship was
sufficiently diabolical, being debased with all the
abominable impurities of the Arkite superstitions.
Remarks not dissimilar might be made on the
deity of the Mexicans, believed to be the creator of
the world. They call him Mexitli, or Vitzliputzli.
His image was seated on an azure-coloured stool,
placed in a litter ; his complexion was also azure ;
and in his hand he held an azure staff, fashioned in
the shape of a waving serpent. Their next deity
they named Tlaloc ; their third Tezcallipuca. Him
they esteemed the god of repentance. As for the
superior divinity of this triad, he was placed on a
high altar, in a small box, decked with feathers and
ornaments of gold; and the tradition of the Mexicans
was, that when they journeyed by different stations,
from a remote country to the north-west, they bore
this oracular image along with them, seated in a
coffer made of reeds. Whenever they rested, they
placed the ark of their deity on an altar; and at
length, by his special direction, they built their prin-
cipal city in the midst of a lake.
They went forwards, says Purchas, " bearing their
idol with them in an ark of reeds, supported by four
of their principal priests, with whom he talked, and
communicated his oracles and directions. He like-
wise gave them laws, and taught them the sacrifices
and ceremonies they still observe. And even as the
pillar of cloud and of fire conducted the Israelites in
their passage through the wilderness, so this apish
devil gave them notice when to advance and when to
stay."
38 PRIESTCRAIIT
Every particular of this superstition shews its dilu-
vian origin; and proves the supposed demiurge to
be no other than the great father. The ark of Mexitli
is the same machine as that in which the Hammon,
or Osiris of Egypt was bome in his procession ; ·the
same as the ark of Bacchus ; the ship of his, and the
Argha of lswara. His dark complexion is that·of
the Vishnu of the Indian, and Cneph of the Egyptian
triads. He was oracular, like the ship·Argo of the
Greeks; the Baris of Hammon ; the chief ·arkite
gods of all Gentile nations. He connects his City
with a lake, like the ancient Cabiri, lik~ ·that of
Buto on the lake Chemmis in Egypt; and has evi-
dent connexion with the lake and floating islands of
all the pagan mythologies.
It is a curious circumstance, that we find the doc-
trine of the succession of worlds, and of the death
and revival of the hero-gods, also amongst the Mexi-
cans. They doubtless brought it out of eastem Asia,
with a mythology which is substantially the same as
that of the larger continent, agreeably to their stand-
ing tradition respecting the route of their ancestors.
They supposed the world to have been made by the
gods, but imagined that since the creation, four suns
have successively appeared and disappeared. The
first sun perished by a deluge; the second fell from
heaven when there were many giants in the country:
the third was consumed by fire; · the ·fourth was
dissipated by a tempest of wind. .Three days after
the last sun became visible, all the former gods died :
then, in process of time, were produced those whom
they have since worshipped. This resemblance to
the tradition of the Hindoos, is striking enough, as
well as to that of the Egyptians, who told Herodotus
that the same sun had four times deviated from bia
IN ALL AGES. 39
course, having twice risen in the west, and twice set
in the east.
When the Mexicans brought their arkite god out
c;~f ..~Uia, they also brought with him the ancient
mysteries of that deity. Like the idolaters whom
they had left behind, they sacrificed on the tops of
mountains in traditionai commemoration of the sacri-
fice on Ararat; and adored their bloody gods in dark
cavents, similar to those of the worship of Mythras.
neir orgies, like all the other orgies'Of the Gentiles,
appear to have been of a peculiarly gloomy and
terrific nature ; sufficient to .strike with terror, even
the most undaunted hearts. Hence their priests, in
Qrder that they might be enabled to go through the
dreadful rites without shuddeting, anointed them-
selves with a peculiar ointment, and used various
fantastic ceremonies to banish fear. Thus prepared,
tl).ey boldly sallied forth to celebrate their nocturnal
rites in wild mountains and the deep recesses of
obscure caves, .much in the same manner as the
nightly orgies of Bacchus, Ceres, and Ceridwen were
celebrated by .their respective nations. A similar
process enabled them to offer up those hecatombs of
human victims, by which their blood-stained super-
'!ltition was more eminently distinguished than even
those of Moloch, Cali, Cronus, or Jaggernath. They
had also their vestal virgins ; and both th011e women
and the priests were wont frantically to cut them-
selves with knives, while engaged in the worship of
their idols, like the votaries of Baal and Bellona.
Of their bloody sacrifices, the Spanish writers are
full ; particularly Herrera, Acosta, and Bernal Diaz.
Fear, says those authors, was the soul of the Mexican
worship. They never approached their altars without
sprinkling them with blood, drawn from their own
40 PRIESTCRAFl'
bodies. But of all offerings, human sacrifices were
deemed the most acceptable. This belief, mingling
with the spirit of vengeance, added more force to it ;
every captive taken in war was brought to the temple,
and sacrificed with horrid cruelties. The head and
the heart were devoted to the gode : the body was
carried off by the warrior who took the captive, to
feast himself and his friends. Hence, the spirit of
the Mexicans became proportionally unfeeling; and
the genius of their religion so far counteracted the
influence of policy and arts, that, notwithstanding
their progress in both, their manners, instead of
softening, became more fierce. Those nations in the
New World, who had made the greatest progress in
the arts of social life, were, in several respects, the
most ferocious ; and the barbarity of their actions,
exceeded even those of the savage state.
The Spanish writers have been charged with ex-
aggerating the number of human victims annually
sacrificed by the Mexicans. Gomara says, there was
no year in which twenty thousand were not immo-
lated. The skulls of those unhappy persons were
ranged in order, in a building erected for that pur-
pose ; and two of Cortes's officers who had counted
them, told Gomara they amounted to a hundred and
thirty six thousand. Herrera declares that five and
twenty thousand have been sacrificed in one day.
The first bishop of Mexico, in a letter to the chapter-
general of his order, states the annual average at
twenty thousand. On the other hand, Bernal Diaz
asserts that the Franciscan monks, who were sent
into New Spain, immediately after the conquest,
found, on particular inquiry, that they did not exceed
annually two thousand five hundred. Probably the
numbers varied with the varying circumstances of war
and other occurrences ; but from all authorities, it
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 41
appears that their bloody rites were carried to an
enonnous extent.
But enough of these terrible and revolting trophies
of priestcraft. We might follow the course of this
pestilence into Africa and the South Sea Isles; but I
shall rather choose to refer all those who may be
curious on the subject, to the narratives of our tra-
vellers and missionaries, in which they will see the
same causes operating the saine effects. I prefer to
give a concluding page or two in this chapter, to the
vivid picture of priestcraft which Mr. Southey has
drawn in his noble poem of Madoc. No man has
felt and described the true spirit of this terrible race
of men more forcibly than Mr. Southey. His Madoc
was a Welch prince, who, according to Cambrian
tradition, first discovered America, and there settled
with a colony of his countrymen. On this founda-
tion Mr. Southey has formed one of his most delight-
ful poems; full of nature, of the working of strong
affections, and of the spirit of the subject.
Madoc discovers land, and falls in with a native
who had fled from his country to avoid being sacri-
ficed by the priests. This youth, Lincoya, leads
Madoc to his native land, where he is soon introduced
to Erillyab, the widowed queen, who sits before her
door, near the war-pole of her deceased husband;-
a truly noble woman. Madoc, in his own narrative,
says,-
She welcomed us
With a proud eorrow in her mieu ; fresh fruits
Were spread before us, aod her gestures said
That wheu he lived whose hand was wout to wield
Those weapons,-that iu better days,-that ere
She let the trease1 of her widowhood
Grow wild, she could have giveu to guests like us
A worthier welcome. Soou a mau approached,
Hooded with sable; hia half-naked limbs
Smeared black : the people at his sight drew:rouud ;
42 PRIESTCRAFT ·
The women wailed and wept'; the children turned
And hid their faces in their mothers' knees.
He to the queen addressed his speech, then looked
Around the children, and laid hands on two
Of different sexes, but of age alike,
Some six years old, who at his touch shrieked out.
But then Lincoya rose, and to my feet
Led them, and told me that the conqueror claimed
These innocents for tribute ; that the priest
Would lay them on the altar ofhis god,-
Tear out their little hearts in sacrifice,
Yea, with more cursed wickedness himself,
Feast on their flesh.
Madoc defends the children ; sends away the dis-
appointed priest ; and, in consequence, gets into war
with the Azticas, the powerful tribe which has seized
upon Aztlan, the city of the Hoamen, the people of
queen Erillyab. He soon, however, obliges them
to come to tenns ;. to renounce their bloody rites,
and, having put things into a fair train, returns to
Europe for fresh stores and emigrants. In his
absence, the priests of Aztlan, according to the wont
of all priests, stir up the king of Aztlan again to
war. They cry, if not exactly " Great is Diana of
the Ephesians," great is Mexitli of the Azticas.
They pretend to hear voices and see prodigies ; they
pretend the gods cry out for the blood oftheir enemies,
and forebode all manner of destruction from them,
if they be not appeased. Madoc does but just arrive
in time to save his colony. A desperate war is com-
menced ; an occasion is given for the full display of
the reckless atrocity, the perfidy, and vile arts of the
priests, and. for many noble and touching incidents
arising out of the contact of better natures with the
casualties of battle and stratagem. Hoel, a child,
the nephew of Madoc, is carried off, at the instigation
of the priests, to be sacrificed. Madoc in following
his captives, falls himself into an ambush, and is
IX ALL AGES. 43
doomed a victim to Mex.itli; but escapes through a
Dlltional custom of allowing a great wanior to fight
for his life at the altar-stone, by the timely arrival
of his friends, and by the assistance of a native
maiden, to whoPl also Hoel owes his rescue from the
den of Tlaloc, where he was left to starve. The
Azticas are defeated, and finally abandon their terri-
tory, going onward and founding Mexico: calling it
after the name of their chief deity.
To quote all the passages which seem especially
made for our purpose, would fill this volume ; but I
must select one or two. The description of the idol :
On a huge throne, with four huge silver snakes
As if the keeper of the sanctuary
Circled, with stretching neck and fangs displayed,
Mexitli sate; another graven snake
Belted with scales of gold his monstrous bulk.
Around his neck a loathsome collar hung
Of human hearts; the face was masked with gold ;
His specular eyes seemed fire; one hand upreared
A club, the other, as in battle, held
The shield ; and over all suspended hung
The banner of the nation.
The chief priest, Tezozomoc, when about to pre-
sent little Hoe! to the idol, and the child, terrified
at his hideous appearance, shrieks and recoils from
him:-
His dark aspect,
Which nature with her harshest characters
Had featured, art made worse. His cowl was white;
His untrimmed hair, a long and loathsome mass,
With cotton cords entwisted, clung with gum,
And matted with the blood which every mom
He from his temples drew before the god,
In sacrifice; bare were his arms, and smeared
Black ; but his countenance a stronger dread
Than all the horrors of that outward garb
Struck, with quick instinct, to young Hoel's heart.
It was a face whose settled sullenness
No r:ntle feeling ever had disturbed :
Wh1ch when he probed a victim's living breast,
Retained its hard composure.
44 PRIESTCRAFT
The whole work is alive with the machinations,
arts, and fanatic deeds of the priesthood. The king
of the Azticas, in an early conference with Madoc,
says, speaking of the priests,-
Awe them, for they awe me:
and his queen, after he has been killed in battle, and
she is about to perish on his funeral pile, calls out to
his brother and successor,-
Take heed, 0 king !
Beware these wicked men ! They to the war
Forced my dead lord••• Thou knowest, and I know,
He loved the stran~rs ; that his noble mind,
Enlightened by then lore, had willingly
Put down these cursed altars I As she spak.e
They dragged her to the stone ••• Nay: nay! she cried,
There needs not force ! I go to join my lord !
His blood and mine be on yon ! Ere she ceased,
The knife was in her breast. Tezozomoc,
Trembling with wrath, held up toward the sun
The reeking heart.
When the war is terminated, Madoc declares,
No priest must dwell among us,-that halh been
The cause ofall this misery !
And that, indeed, has been the cause of at least
half the miseries in the world, as I shall hereafter
shew. With this sentiment let us close this chapter.
IN ALL AGES. 45
CHAPTER VI.
EGYPT.
WE have now traversed an immense space of country•
and of time ; and found one great uniform spirit of
priestcraft, one uniform system of paganism,presiding
over and oppressing the semi-barbarous nations of
the earth ; it remains for us to inquire whether the
three great nations of antiquity, Greece, Egypt, and
India, so early celebrated for their science, philoso-
phy, and political importance, were affected by the
same mighty and singular influence; and here we
shall find it triumphing in its clearest form, and ex-
isting in its highest perfection.
The priest-ridden condition of Egypt is notorious
to all readers of history. Lord Shaftesbury calls it,
"the motherland of superstitions." So completely
had the lordly and cunning priesthood here contrived
to fix themselves on the shoulders of the people, so
completely to debase and stupify them with an over-
whelming abundance of foolish veneration, that the
country swal:med with temples, gods, and creatures,
which, in themselves most noxious, or loathsome,
were objects of adoration. Juvenallaughs at them,
as making gods of their onions ;. growing gods in
their garden-beds by thousands-
0 sanctaa gentes, quibus hmc nasc:untez in hortis
Numina!
and dogs, cats, lizards, and other creatures were
"" ,,Coogle
46 PRIESTCRAFT
cherished with extraordinary veneration. Diodorus
Siculus says, that a Roman soldier having by accident
killed a cat, the common people instantly surrounded
his house with every demonstration of fury. The
king's guards were immediately dispatched to save
him from their rage, but in vain ; his authority and
the Roman name were equally unavailing.
The accounts we possess, of the extreme populous-
ness of ancient Egypt ; of the number and splendour
of their temples ; of the knowledge and authority of
their priests ; and the mighty remains of some of
their sacred buildings, sufficiently testify to the
splendour and absolute dominance of this order in
this great kingdom.
To shew that the priestcraft of this ancient realm
was part of the same system that we have been
tracing, a part of that still existing in India, will
require but little labour. We shall see that the
Greek philosophers themselves assert the derivation
of their mythology from Egypt ; and so strikingly
similar are those of India and Egypt, that it has
been a matter of debate amongst learned men, which
nation borrowed its religion from the other. The
fact appears to be, that neither borrowed from the
other, but that both drew from one common source, a
source we have already pointed out-that of the
Cuthic tribes. Egypt was peopled by the children
of Ham : and by whomsoever India was peopled, the
great priestly and military caste early found its way
there, and introduced the very same superstitions,
founded on the worship of Noah and his sons; and
shadowed out with emblems and ceremonies derived
from the memory of the flood. Both nations are of
the highest antiquity ; both arrived at extraordinary
knowledge of astronomy, of architecture, of many of
the mechanic arts, of government, and of a ~rtain
IN ALL AGES. 47
moral and theologic philosophy, which the priests
retained to themselves, and made use of as a mighty
engine to enslave the people. Their knowledge was
carefully shrowded from the multitude ; the populace
were crammed with all sorts of fabulous puerilities ;
and were made to feel the display of science in the
hands of the priesthood, as evidence of supernatural
powers.
Dr. Robertson, in his Disquisition on Ancient
India, and in his History ofAmerica, has endeavoured
to explain the uniformity of pagan belief, by sup-
posing that rude nations would everywhere be in-
fluenced by the same great powers and appearances
of nature ;-by the beneficial influence of the sun
and moon; of the fruitful earth ; by the contemplation
of the awfulness of the ocean, of tempests, and thun-
der ; and would come to adore those great objects as
gods. But this will, by no means, account for the
striking identity of the great principles and practices
of paganism, as we have seen them existing. Differ-
ent nations, especially under the different aspects of
widely divided climates, would have imagined widely
different deities ; aJI.d the ceremonies in which they
would have adored them, would have been as infinite
as the vagaries of the human fancy. But would they
have all produced gods so positively of the same
family, that, whoever went from one nation to another,
however distant, amongst people of totally different
habits and genius, would have immediately recognized
their own gods, and have given them their own
names ? Would Cresar and Tacitus have beheld
Roman gods in Germany and Gaul ? Herodotus,
Pluto, and Pythagoras, have found those of Greece
in Egypt? Would these gods be, in every country,
attended by the same traditionary theory of origin,-
the three sons of one great father, multiplying them-
48 PRIESTCB.AFT
selves into the eight persons of the original gods-
the precise number of those enclosed in the ark?
Would traditions of the flood in all countries, most
full and remarkable, and, in the oldest Hindoo
writings, almost word for word with the one in the
Bible, have existed, as may be seen in the histories of
the various countries; and as may be found carefully
collected by Faber and Bryant in their works on the
pagan mythologies? This could not be;-nor would
so many nations, in different parts of the world,
retain the ark; nor celebrate mysteries, substantially
the same, in the same terrific manner in caves; nor
would they have all hit on the horrid sacrifice of men;
nor the same doctrine of transmigration; nor have
permitted an imperious caste of priests and nobles to
rule over them with absolute domination. To sup-
pose all this to happen, except from one great and
universal cause, is as rational as to suppose the
system of earth and heaven to be the work of chance:
and the farther we go, the more clearly shall we see
this demonstrated.
The Egyptians, like all other nations, had their
triad of gods ;-Horus, Osiris, and Typhon. This
was the popular one ; but the priests had another
of a ·more intellectual nature, Emeph, Eicton, and
Phtha. They had also their great mother Isis,
Ceres, or the earth : but they had besides many in-
ferior deities, which we need not enumerate. .Every
god had his shrine ; every shrine its train of priests ;
besides which there were the shrines of the oracles,
so that there was plenty of influence and profit for
the priesthood. They bore the ark of Osiris once a
year in procession ; setting it afloat on the Nile at a
certain place, and lamenting it for a time as lost. · It
was taken up at another place, with great rejoicings
that the god was found again. It was said to be
IN ALL AGES,
pursued by the great evil serpent Typhon in the
ocean ; but, in time was triumphant over him-a
direct allusion to the going of Noah into the ark,
and being driven by the great power of waters for a
time ; when he returned to land, and peopled the
world anew.
Their doctrine of transmigration, Herodotus tells
us, some of his countrymen,.whom he could name but
does not choose (meaning, however, Pythagoras and
others), carried thence into Greece. The Egyptians,
says the venerable Greek, believe that, on the disso-
lution of the body, the soul immediately enters into
some other animal ; and that, after using as vehicles
every species of terrestrial, aquatic, and winged crea-
tures, it finally enters a second time into a human
body. They affirm that it undergoes all these
changes in the space of three thousand years.
This is precisely the doctrine of the Hindoos, and
of those nations we have already noticed ; and hence
proceeded that excessive veneration ofthe people for
every species of animal ; fearing to hurt or destroy
them, lest they should dislodge the soul of a relative
or friend. We have noticed their fury about a cat:
their veneration for dogs was equally extreme till
after the celebrated expedition of Cambyses, the
Persian, who, with the zeal of his country against all
images of deity, threw down their idols, and slew their
sacred animals, which the dogs devoured, and thereby
became objects of abhorrence to the Egyptians.
Their laws, says Herodotus, compel them to che-
rish animals. A certain number of men and women
.are appointed to this office, which is esteemed so
honourable that it descends in succession from father
to. son. In the presence of these animals the
inhabitants of the cities perform their vows. They
address themselves as supplicants to the divinity
E
, . ,,Coogle
50 PRIESTCRAFT
which is supposed to be represented by the animal
in whose presence they are. They then cut off their
childrens' hair ; sometimes the whole ; sometimes
the half; at others a third. This they weigh in a
balance against a piece of silver. As soon as the
silver preponderates, they give it to the woman
who keeps the beast. It is a capital offence to kill
one of these animals. To destroy one accidentally
is punishable by a fine paid to the priests ; but he
who kills an ibis or a hawk, however involunta-
rily, cannot by any means escape death. When-
ever a cat dies there is universal mourning in a
family ; and every member of it cuts off his eye-
brows : but when a dog dies, they shave their heads
and every part of their bodies. This, after the days
of Cambyses, would, of course, be somewhat altered.
The cats, when dead, are carried to sacred buildings,
salted, and afterwards buried in the city of Bubastes.
Female dogs are buried in sacred chests, wherever
they happen to die, as are ichneumons ; shrew-mice
and hawks are buried at Butos ; bears and wolve3
where they die. Otters and eels also excited great
veneration. The crocodile was held to be divine by
one part of the kingdom ; by another it was exe-
crated. Where it was reverenced, it had temples, a
large train of attendants, and, after death, was em-
balmed. Maximus Tyrius says, a woman reared a
young crocodile, and the Egyptians esteemed her
highly fortunate as the nurse of a deity. The woman
had a child which used to play with the crocodile,
till the animal one day turned fierce, and ate it up ;
the woman exulted, and counted the child's fate
blessed in the extreme, to have been the victim of
her domestic god. Such is the melancholy stupidity
into which priestcraft can plunge the human mind I
I shall not pursue the superstitions of this people
IN ALL AGES, 51
farther, but refer my readers to Herodotus, Plu-
tarch, Diodorus, and Porphyrius, for all further par-
ticular!t ; except to state that the Egyptians, were we
to credit Herodotus, were singular in one respect-
having no human sacrifices, save, perhaps, in the
very earliest ages. This, however, is so remarkable
an-exception to the universality of the system, that
we find it difficult of belief; and, on turning to
Strabo, we are assured that they annually sacrificed
to the Nile a noble virgin ; a statement confirmed by
the Arabian writer, Murtadi, who relates that they
arrayed her in rich robes, and hurled her into the
stream. Diodorus affirms, that they sacrificed red-
haired men at the tomb of Osiris, because his mortal
enemy, Typhon, was of that colour. Busiris sacri-
ficed Thracians to appease the angry Nile ; and three
men were daily sacrificed to Lucina at Heliopolis ;
instead of which Amasis afterwards humanely sub-
stituted waxen images.
They not only practised these horrors, but the
Phallic rites in all their loathsomeness; and en-
grafted a vulgar and indecent character on the na-
tional manners. They propagated the abominations
of Priapis, and the Bacchanalian and Saturnalian
orgies amongst the Greeks. The priests had so fast
bound the people in the strongest bonds-knowledge
in their own order, and ignorance in the multitude; in
puerile forms and ceremonies, and the serpent-folds of
sensuality ; that they had established themselves in
the most absolute manner on their shoulders. Rome
and India can alone present similar examples.
As we have seen in all other countries, so here
they were the lordly caste. The nation, say the
authorities I have above quoted, is divided into three
castes-priests, nobles, and people ; the latter of
whom are confined to mechanic or rural employ-
E2
52 PRJESTCRAFT
ments, utterly excluded from knowledge, advance•
ment, and power. As in India to this day, the son
must succeed his father in his trade. " I know
not," says Herodotus, "whether the Greeks havf:l
borrowed this custom from them, but I have seen the
same thing in various parts of Thrace, Scythia, Per-
sia, and Lydia. It seems, indeed, to be an estab-
lished prejudice amongst nations, even the least
refined, to consider mechanics and their descendants
as the lowest sort of citizens, and to esteem those
most noble who are of no profession. The soldiers
and the priests are the only ranks in Egypt which
are honourably distinguished; these, each of them,
receive from the public a portion of land of twelve
acres, free from all taxes : besides this, the military
enjoy, in their turn, other advantages; one thousand
are every year, in turn, on the king's guard, and
receive, besides their land, a daily allowance of five
pounds of bread, two of beef, and four austeres of
wine."
Plato, Plutarch, and Diodorus agree with him in
this particular. A prince, say they, cannot reign in
Egypt if he be ignorant of sacred affairs. The king
must be either of the race ofpriests or soldiers ; these
two classes being distinguished, the one by their
wisdom, the other by their valour. When they have
chosen a warrior for king, he is immediately admitted
into the order of priests, who instruct him in their
mysterious philosophy. The priests may censure
the king ; give him advice ; and regulate his actions.
By them is fixed the time when he shall walk, bathe,
or even visit his wife. The sacred ministers possess,
in return, many and great advantages. They are not
obliged to consume any part of their domestic pro-
perty ; each has a moiety of sacred viands, ready
dressed, assigned him, besides a large daily allowance
ofbeef, and geese, and wine.
. ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 58
What a striking ill~stration is this of what we find
in Genesis, cap. xlvii. v. 22, ofthe doings of Joseph,
who adopted a policy towards the Egyptians more
despotic than one would have expected from his
patriarchal character ; or from a simple Canaanitish
shepherd-first of gathering up the com from all the
land of Egypt, and then selling it out, in the horrors
of famine, to the people for their possessions, whereby
the whole kingdom became the purchased property of
Pharaoh, except that of the priests-" only the land
of the priests bought he not, for the priests had a
portion assigned them of Pharaoh."
The priests, indeed, were too powerfulfor Joseph,
or even for Pharaoh himself. Darius wished only to
place a statue of himself in a temple ; the priests
violently resisted it, and Darius was obliged to sub-
mit. Herodotus tells us that the priests shewed him
the images of their predecessors for three hundred
and forty-one descents: and M. Larcher even sup-
poses that these priests were, for many ages, the sole
princes of this strange country ; a most triumphant
reign of priestcraft indeed I Let us now turn to
Greece.
, . ,,Coogle .....
54 PRIESTCRAFT
CHAPTER VII.
GREECE,
THE popular theology of this noble and celebrated
nation, as it existed during its most enlightened ages,
has been made familiar to every mind by its literature
· being taught in all schools, and furnishing perpetual
allusions and embelllshments to all writers. Herodotus
says that Hesiod and Homer invented the theogony
of Greece ; that is, they, no doubt, methodized the
confused traditions of their ancestors, and organized
them into that very beautiful system, which we still
admire, when it has become the most fabulous of
fables, more than the kindred creations of all other
people. Though it had .the same origin as all other
mythologies, yet, passing through the glorioua minds
of these poets, it assumed all those characters of
grace and beauty which they conferred on their litera-
ture, their philosophy, and on all the arts and embel-
lishments of life. Familiar as Homer has made us
all with that hierarchy of gods which figure so con-
spicuously in his writings, we are continually fur-
nished by him with glimpses of a more ancient dy-
nasty, and with theories of their origin, which clash
with his more general one, and at first puzzle and
confound us. When we come, however, to trace up
these casual revealinga, we soon find ourselves in a
new world. These gods, which he at first taught us
were all the offspring of Saturn, and ofhis three sons
Coogle
JN ALL AGES, 55
Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto, we discover, to our
astonishment, are the gods of all other nationa,-
gods assuming all the character of the highest anti-
quity, and deriving their being in a manner totally at
variance with the more modem system. His Her-
cules, Bacchus, Apollo, Ceres, Venus, &c., instead of
being the comparatively recent children of Jove, are
found to blend and become synonimous with him or
the great Mother. Surprised at this strange disco-
very, we pursue the inquiry, and are led into those
very regions where we have lately been-into central
Asia, and to the period of the Flood. The tombs of
the gods were existing in Greece ; they were, there-
fore, but deified men,-and whence came these men ?
From the Flood. Traditions of floods were the most
familiar of things in Greece ; and they agreed, both
that of Deucalion and others, with all the particulars
of the real one. Herodotus tells us that the Egyp-
tians, into whose religion he was initiated, invented
the names of the twelve great gods; but we have al-
ready seen whence the Egyptians drew their deities.
Plutarch contend! that they came from Phrenicia.
And who were the gods of the Phrenicians ? llus, or
Ark-Ilus, or Hercules, i.e. Noah; and Dagon; the
old man, On, or Oannes, who, according to Sanco-
niatho, .came out of the sea, and· taught them to
plant com and the vine, Others say, that the gods
came into Greece from Samothrace, with the Pelasgi,
an ancient wandering people, who bore in an ark with:
them the Cabiri, or mighty ones. These Cabiri have
been the subject of much contention ; but all writers
admit that they were three, or eight, that is, the three
sons of Noah, or the eight people of the ark. It is
most likely that from all these sources portions of the
same great system of corrupted worship were derived.
So conspicuous is the real origin of all the Grecian
56 PRIESTCRAFT
traditions, that I shall not dwell upon it. It is enough
to state that they celebrated the same mysteries, prac-
tised the same human sacrifices, were contaminated
with the same Phallic abominations, as all the other
nations of paganism ; in fact, all the characters of the
great Noachic superstitions were engrafted upon them.
The bold and free genius of the nation ; that splendid
and extraordinary emanation of intellect, which not
only made it the wonder of the ancient world, but
has constituted it the well-spring of knowledge to
all ages, and almost the creator of the universal mo-
dem mind, saved it from the utmost horrors and
degradations of priestcraft. The national spirit ope-
rating in the soul of Homer, again through him
operated with tenfold force on the minds of his coun-
trymen. In all other countries the priests were the
monopolists of knowledge. "Immured," says Mau-
rice, in his Indian Antiquities, " in the errors of
Polytheism, as was the great body of the Egyptian
nation, it has been incontestibly proved by the im-
mortal Cudworth, that the hieropbant, or arch-priest,
in the secret rites of their religion, taught the doctrine
of the unity of the Godhead ; but this noble senti-
ment, though they had the magnanimity to conceive,
they wanted the generosity to impart to the deluded
populace ; for it was thought dangerous both to the
church and state, to shake the foundations of the
reigning superstitions." This, if I have not already
abewn, it would be easy to shew, was the practice
the world over; but this knowledge falling on the
mind of Homer, be disdained to make it an instru-
ment of slavery, but poured it abroad like light
through the earth ; and his countrymen, listening to
hia glorious poems with enthusiasm, became imbued
with the same dauntless, untameable spirit, alike in-
tolerant of the despotism of the throne or the altar.
Coogle
IN ALL AGBS. 57
Many of his more timid compatriots, indeed, were
terrified at the freedom of his treatment of the gods.
Everywhere we perceive that he regarded them but as
convenient poetical machinery. Ever and anon we find
him rising into such sublime notions of Deity and the
Divine government, that we feel that he possessed
that true knowledge of the Creator which Socrates
and Plato, and Cicero, in Rome, afterwards displayed.
So strikingly, indeed, does he evince this, that many
have thought that in his wanderings he had come in
contact with the Hebrew doctrines. I doubt this. I
believe, rather, it came to him from the earliest ages,
by other sources ; but, be it as it may, his description
of the gods exerting their power is almost worthy of
Isaiah.
Mara shouts to Simois from his beauteous hill:
The mountain shook, the rapid stream stood still.
Above, the sire of gods his thunder rolls,
And ~als on peals redoubled rend the poles.
Beneath, stern Neptune shakes the solid ground;
The forests wave, the mountains nod around :
Through all their summits tremble Ida's woods,
And from their sources boil her hundred ftoods.
Troy's turrets totter on the rocking plain,
And the tossed navies beat the heaving main.
Pope'• Trt~flllation, B• .tx.
The sentiments that abound in the Odyssey are
worthy, not merely ofa Hebrew, but of a Christian;-
as this fine and just opinion of slavery :-
Jove fixed it certain, that whatever day
Makes man a slave, takes half his worth away.-B. xvlli.
This noble description of the power ofconscience:-
Pirates and conquerors of hardened mind,
Tbe foes of peace, and scourges of mankind,
To whom ofFending men are made a prey,
When Jove in vengeance gives a land away:
58 PB.IESTCRAFT
Eveu theae,-wben oftbeir ill-got spoils ~.
Find aure tormentors in the guilty breast ;
Some voice of God, close whispering within-
" Wretch! thia is villany; and this is ain!"
And those many declarations of God's guardian-
ship of the poor and the stranger:-
'T ia Jove unfolds our hospitable door ;
'Tis Jove that sends tbe stranger and tbe poor.-B. xi•.
Let first the herald doe libations pay
To Jove, who guides tbe wanderer on his way.-B. yjj.
By J oYe the stranger and the poor are sent,
And what to them we give, to Jove is lent.
Low at tby knee, thy succour we implore ;
Respect us human, and relieve us poor ;
At least some hospitable gifts beatow,
'Tis what the happy, to the unhappy owe.
'Tis what the gods require :-those goda revere,-
The poor and stranger are their constant care.
To Jove their cause, and their revenge belonp-
He wanders with them, and he feels their wronga.-B. iz.
From Homer's mind, truth glanced abroad with a
divine and dreadless honesty ; unlike that of poor
Herodotus, who at. the utterance of a bolder senti-
ment, hopes he has not given offence to gods or men.
We see in his writings not only continual indica-
tions of great moral truths, but the same integrity
evinced in sketching the manners of the early ages of
his country. We see his favourite hero dragging bit
noble foe at his chariot, and immolating men at the
funeral of his friend. What Greece would have been
in the hands of priests, but for its own elastic spirit,
and for the mighty influence of its poets and sages,
we have seen pictured in other nations ; what it was,
we have now to see. Priestcraft here did not rule
with the same unmasked mien, and unrestrained
hand, as in other countries;-it adapted its policy to
Googk
IN ALL AGES. 59
the spirit of the people. It gratified their curiosity
after philosophic knowledge, and after the future, by
mysteries and oracles ; theirlove ofgrace and festivity,
by beautiful processions and joyous festivals ; it
captivated and awed their sensitive imaginations, by
calling to its aid the fine arts, as the papal church did
afterwards by its adherents,--erecting the most mag-
nificent temples, and setting before their eyes those
miracles of paintings now lost, except in the eulo-
giums of antiquity; and of sculpture, some of which
remain to command the admiration, if not the worship
of the world. By these means they attained their
end,-immense wealth and influence,-an influence,
the strength of which, on the common mind, may be
estimated by facts about to be given, but perhaps
more by .the circumstance of Socrates, the most
sagacious of their philosophers, at the hour of his
death, and when he was delivering the most sublime
sentiments, enjoining his friends to sacrifice on his
behalf, a cock to lEsculapius.
Let us now briefly run over the great features of
priestcraft in Greece ; and first, of human sacrifices.
Archbishop Potter, in his Antiquities of Greece,
chap. iv., says, "Neither was it lawful to sacrifice
oxen only, but also men. Examples of this sort of
inhumanity were very common in most of the bar-
barous nations. Among the primitive Grecians it
was accounted an act ofso uncommon cruelty and im~
piety, that Lycaon, king of Arcadia, was feigned by
the poets to have been turned into a wolf, because he
offered a human sacrifice to Jupiter. In latter days
it was undoubtedly -more common and familiar.
Aristomenes, the Messinian, sacrificed three hundred
men ; among whom was Theopompus, one of the
kings of Sparta, to Jupiter of lthome. Themistocles,
in order to procure the assistance of the gods against
60 PRIESTCRAFT
the Persians, sacrificed some captives of that nation,
as we find in Plutarch. Bacchus had an altar in
Arcadia, upon which young damsels were beaten to
death with bundles of rods; something like to which
was practised by the Lacedemonians, who scourged
the children, sometimes to death, in honour of Diana
Orthia. To the Manes and infernal ·gods, such
sacrifices were very often offered. Hence we read of
Polyxena's being sacrificed to Achilles; and Homer
relates how that hero butchered twelve Trojan cap-
tives at the funeral of Patroclus. JEneas, whom
Virgil celebrates for his piety, is an example of the
same practice:-
Sulmone creatos
Quatuor hie juvenes, totidem, quos educat Ufens,
Viventes rapit ; inferias quos immolet umbris,
Captivoque rogi perfundat sanguine ftammas.-Lil>• .11.
" Whoever desires to see more instances of human
sacrifices, may consult Clemens of Alexandria, Euse-
bius, and other Christian apologists."
To this, we may add the well-known sacrifice of
Iphygenia., by the assembled Grecian powers on their
way to Troy ; the sacrifice of two children by Mene-
laus, related by Herodotus, and what Plutarch·says,
that the Greeks sacrificed many children annually to
Saturn ; so that we see this famous people was
aufficiently infected by this bloody superstition.
Of their Phallic rites we shall, for decency's sake,
aay no more than refer to their own writers, whoae
descriptions of the Baechle and Priapic orgies, are
astonishing.
For their religious festivals and processions; we
refer to Potter; and shall only say that in theae, every
charm of. grace, every intoxication of festivity was
exhausted, to fascinate a people so alive to such
IN ALL AGES, 61
in11.uences ; and they were made to contribute abund-
antly to the coffers of the priests.
Another potential 110urce of power and wealth waa
augury. Augurs were a class of men frequently
priests, but always bearing much the same relation to
the pagan priesthood, that the monks did to those of
the papal hierarchy. They were but varieties of the
same class of animals of prey. They pretended to
discern and declare the will of the gods, by the flight
ofbirds, by the intestines of animals, and by various
other signs ; but it was through the medium of the
oracles that priestcraft awed, and practised on, the
pnblic mind most effectually. These were situated
in solemn temples, or fearful, sacred groves; were
surrounded by everything which could terrify and
confound the imagination; and, accompanied by dread
and mysterious sounds, and by the cries and con-
tortions of the priest or priestess, were supposed to
proclaim the dicta of the gods. They were, con-
sequently, a mineofwealth and power to the priests.
" Of all sorts of divination," says Potter, " oracles
bad always the greatest repute, as being thought to
proceed in an immediate manner from the gods ;
whereas, others were delivered by men, and had a
greater dependence on them, who might, either out
of ignorance, mistake, or out of fear, hope, or other
unlawful and base ends, conceal, or betray the truth;
whereas, they thought the gods, who were neither
obnoxious to the anger, nor stood in need of the
rewards, nor cared for the promises of mortal, could
not be prevailed upon to do either of them. Upon
this account, oracles obtained so great credit and
esteem, that, in all doubts and disputes, their deter-
minations were held sacred and inviolable. Whence,
as Strabo reports, vast numbers flocked to them to
be resolved in all manner of doubts, and to ask
62 PII.I.ESTCIU.PT
counsel about the management of their affairs; inso-
much, that no business of great consequence waa
undertaken ; scarce any war waged, peace concluded,
new form of government instituted, or new laws
enacted, without the advice and approbation of an
oracle. Crresus, before he durst venture to declare
war against the Persians, consulted not only all the
most famous oracles of Greece, but sent ambassadors
to Lybia, to ask advice of Jupiter Hammon. Minos,
~e Cretan lawgiver, conversed with Jupiter, and
received instructions from him, how he might new-
model his government. Lycurgus also made visits to
the Delphian Apollo, and received from him that
platform which he afterwards communicated to the
Lacedemonians. Nor does it matter whether these
things were true or not, when lawgivers, and men of
the greatest authority, were forced to make use of
these methods to win them into compliance. My
author also goes higher, and tells us that inspired
persons were thought worthy of the greatest honour
nnd trusts : insomuch, that we sometimes find them
advanced to the throne, and invested with the royal
power ;-for that, being admitted to the councils of
the gods, they were best able to provide for the wel-
fare of men.
" This representation stood the priests, who had
their dependence on the oracle, in no small stead ;
for finding their credit thus thoroughly established,
they allowed no man to consult their gods before he
had offered costly sacrifices, and made rich presents
to them. Whereby it came to pass that few besides
great and wealthy men were admitted to ask their
advice ; the rest being unable to pay the charges re-
quired on that account, which contributed very much
to raise the esteem of oracles among the common peo-
ple; men being generally apt to admire.the things _
they
IN ALL AGES, 63
are kept at some distance from, and, on the other
hand, to contemn what they are familiarly acquainted
with. Wherefore, to keep up their esteem with the
better sort, even they were only admitted on a few
stated days: at other times, neither the greatest
prince could purchase, nor persons of the greatest
quality any way obtain an answer. Alexander him-
self was peremptorily denied by the Pythia, till she
was by downright force compelled to ascend the
tripos, when, finding herself unable to resist any
longer, she cried out, 'Thou art invincible!' which
words were thought a very lucky omen, and accepted
instead ofa further oracle."
Thus we see how artfully and triumphantly the
priests had managed to enslave this great and most
intelligent of people, holding them in abject and utter
thraldom even while they imagined themselves free.
To the priests they were obliged to come for their
original civil constitutions, and these they took care
so to frame as to make themselves necessary in every
act and hour of existence, as they have done through
the universal world. Our author might have told us
however, what tricks statesmen were suffered to play
with the oracles when it suited them so to do ; he
might have added what prodigies and portents The-
mistocles caused to appear in these oracular temples,
when he wished to rouse the Greeks against Persia.
The arms of the temple at Delphi were shifted from
the interior to the front of the fane in the night, as
ifdone by divine hands ; they were heard to clash
as if by invisible power ; rocks fell, and thundered
down in the faces of the enemy as they approached
these sacred defiles, and friends and foes were im-
pressed with an idea that the gods were present to
defend their sanctuaries. These and similar facts he
might have told us ;-but let us proceed.
ab,Google .
64 PB.IBSTCB.AFT
Their sacred festivals, games, and celebration of
mysteries, we have already beard were almost innu-
merable; some occurring yearly, others monthly, so
that they were seldom without something of the kind
to occupy their attention, and bind them to the na-
tional religion. To their mysteries only can we
devote a few passages.
These have occupied much 'of the curiosity of the
learned ; and their researches have shewn incon-
testibly, that the mysteries celebrated in all ages and
nations were substantially the same. Whether they
were celebrated in Egypt, in honour of Isis and
Osiris ; in Syria of Baal ; in Pbrygia, in Crete, in
Phenicia, in Lemnos, in Samotbrace, in Cypress, in
India, or the British Isles; or in the Mythratic caves
of Persia; they had all the same object, and were
attended by the same ceremonies. In Greece there
might be differing particulars in the orgies of Bac-
chus, Ceres, Jupiter, Pan, Silenus, Rhea, Venus, or
Diana, yet their leading traits were the same. Their
objects have been stated variously ; but they appear,
in fact, to have been various, yet all subservient to
one great object,-which was, to teach the primal
unity ofthe Deity, notwithstanding the popular mul-
titude of gods, and to shadow out the grand doctrine
of the fall and repurification of the human soul. They
appear evidently derived from the flood ; repre-
senting a descent into the darkness of that death
which Noah's entrance into the ark indicated to the
world, and his subsequent return to life. In ~
there was a person lost, and sought after with lamen-
tation ; whether Isis was seeking Osiris, Ceres seek-
ing Proserpine; or Thammuz, Bacchus, Pan, Jupiter,
or some other, was lamented with tears, and sought
through terrors, and afterwards rejoiced in as found.
In all, the aspirants descended to darkness as of
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 65
death, passed over a water in an ark or boat, and
came into Elysium. The accounts in Homer and
Virgil of the descent of Hercules, ffiysses and
..£neas, into hell, are considered to be but details of
what is represented in the mysteries. In whatever
mode they were celebrated, we invariably find a
certain door or gate, viewed as of primary import-
ance. Sometimes it was the door of the temple ;
sometimes the door of the consecrated grotto ; some-
times it was the hatch-way of the boat within
which the aspirant was enclosed ; sometimes a hole,
either natural or artificial, between rocks ; and some•
times a gate in the sun, moon, or planets. Through
this the initiated were born again ; and from this the
profane were excluded. The notion evidently origi-
nated from the door in the side of the ark through
which the primary epopts were admitted, while the
profane antediluvians were shut out. So sacred and
secret were these mysteries in all countries, that
whoever revealed any portion of them was instantly
put to death. The scrupulosity of the Romans with
regard to the orgies of the .Bona Dea, at which women
only were admitted, is familiar to every reader of
Cicero, by his harangue against Clodius, who violated
this custom. Those who consulted the oracle of
Trophonius had to pass through darkness, and de-
scend by a ladder into the cave, with offerings of
cakes of honey; and drank of the waters ofoblivion
to forget all past cares, and of the waters of remem-
brance, to recollect what they were about to see.
They who had been initiated into the mysteries were
held to be extremely wise, and to be possessed ofmo-
tives to the highest honour and purity of life ; yet it
cannot be denied that they were made, by the intro-
duction of the Phallic obscenities, a means as much
of debauchery as •of refining the people. A little
F
66 PB.IESTCRAFT
reftection, says Mr. Maurice, will soon convince us,
that as persons of either sex were promiscuously
allowed to be initiated, when the original physical
cause came to be forgotten, what a general dissipa-
tion-what a boundless immorality, would be pro-
moted by so scandalous an exhibition as awaited
them. The season of nocturnal gloom in which these
mysteries were performed, and the inviolable secresy
which accompanied the celebration of them, added to
the inviting solitude of the scene, conspired at once to
break down all the barriers of restraint, to overturn
all the fortitude of manly virtue, and to rend the veil
of modesty from the blushing face of virgin innocence.
At length licentious passion trampled upon the most
sacred obstacles which law and religion united to
raise against it. The bacchanal, frantic with mid-
night intemperance, polluted the secret sanctuary,
and prostitution sate throned upon the very altars of
the gods.
The effect upon the vulgar multitude cannot be
doubted, however different it might be upon the few
of higher intellect and higher pursuit. By them the
most sublime portions of the ancient mysteries would
be awfully felt. Nothing can be conceived more
solemn than the rites of initiation into the greater
mysteries as described by Apuleius and Dion Chry-
sostome, who had both gone through the awful cere-
mony,-nothing more tremendous than the scenery
exhibited before the eyes of the terrified aspirant.
Mter entering the grand vestibule of the mystic
shrine, he was led by the hierophant, amid surround-
ing darkness and incumbent horrors, through all
those extended aisles, winding avenues, and gloomy
adyta, equally belonging to the mystic temples of
Egypt, Eleusis, and India. "It was," says Sto-
breus, as quoted by Warburton, in his Divine Lega-
tion of Moses, " a wide and fearful march through
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 67
night and darkness. Presently the ground began to
rock beneath his feet, the whole temple trembled, and
strange and dreadful voices were heard through the
midnight silence. To these succeeded other louder
and more terrific noises, resembling thunder; while
quick and vivid flashes of lightning darted through
the cavern, displaying to his view many ghastly
sights and hideous spectres, emblematical of the va-
rious vices, diseases, infirmities, and calamities, inci-
dent to that state of terrestrial bondage from which
his struggling soul was now going to emerge, as well
as of the horrors and penal torments of the guilty in
a future state. The temple of the Cecropian goddess
roared from its inmost recesses ; the holy torches of
Eleusis were waved on high by mimic furies ; the
snakes of Triptolemus hissed a loud defiance, and the
howling of the infernal dogs resounded through the
awful gloom, which resembled the malignant and
imperfect light of the moon when partially obscured
by clouds. At this period, all the pageants of vulgar
idolatry-all the train of gods, supernal and infernal,
passed in awful succession before him ; and a hymn,
called the Theology of Idols, recounting the gene-
alogy and functions of each, was sung : afterwards
the whole fabulous detail was solemnly recanted by
the mystagogue ; a divine hymn, in honour of ETER-
NAL AND IMMUTABLE TRUTH, was chanted, and the
profounder mysteries commenced. And now, arrived
on the verge.of death and initiation, everything wears
a dreadful aspect; it is all horror, trembling, and
astonishment. An icy chilliness seizes his limbs; a
copious dew, like the damp of real death, bathes his
temples ; he staggers, and his senses begin to fail,
when ·the scene is of a sudden changed, and the doors
of the interior, and splendidly illumined temple are
thrown wide open. A miraculous and divine light
F 2
68 PRIESTCRAFT
discloses itself, and shining plains, and flowering
meadows open on all hands before him. ' Accessi
confinium mortis,' says Apuleius, ' et calcato Proser-
pinre limine, per omnia vectus elementa remeavi;
nocte medio SOLEM candido coruscantem lumine.'
Arrived at the bourn of mortality, after having trod
the gloomy threshold of Proserpine, I passed rapidly
through all the surrounding elements, and, at deep
midnight, beheld the sun shining in meridian splen-
dour. The clouds of mental error, and the shades of
real darkness being now alike dissipated, both the
soul and the body of.the initiated experienced a de-
lightful vicissitude; and, while the latter; purified
with lustrations, bounded in a blaze of glory, the for-
mer dissolved in a tide of overwhelming transport.
At that period of virtuous and triumphant exaltation,
according to the divine Plato, they saw celestial
beauty in all the dazzling radiance of its perfection;
when, joining with the glorified chorus, they were
admitted to the beatific tJision, and were initiated into
the most blessed of all mysteries."
The author of the apocryphal WISDOM OF SoLO-
MON has preserved a most curious Jewish tradition,
relative to the nature of the Egyptian plague of
darkness, which intimates that the votaries of Osiris
were visited with the very terrors which they em-
ployed in his mysteries. The passage is not only
strikingly illustrative of what is gone before, but is
extremely sublime.-
" When unrighteous men thought to oppreas the
holy nation, they, being shut up in their houses, the
prisoners of darkness and fettered witli the bonds of
a long night, lay there, fugitives from the Eternal
Providence. For, while they were supposed to lie
hid in their secret sins, they were scattered under a
dark veil of forgetfulness, being horridly astonished.
and troubled with strange apparitions. For, neither
IN ALL AGES, 69
might the comer that held them keep them from fear,
but noises, as of waters falling down, sounded about
them, and sad visions appeared unto them with heavy
countenances. No power of the fire might give them
light, neither could the bright flames of the stars
endure to lighten that horrible night. Only there ap-
peared unto them a fire kindled of itself, very dread-
ful ; for being much terrified, they thought the things
they saw to be worse than the sight they saw not.
As for the illusions of art magic, they were put
down, and their vaunting in wisdom was reproved
with disgrace ; for they who promised to drive away
terrors and troubles from a sick soul, were sick them-
selves of fear, worthy to be laughed at. For though
no terrible thing did fear them, yet, being scared with
beasts that passed by, and hissing of serpents, they
died for fear, refusing to look upon the air, which
could on no side be avoided; they sleeping the same
sleep that night, wherein they could do nothing, and
which came upon them out of the bottoms of inevit-
able hell, were partly vexed with monstrous appa-
ritions, and partly fainted, their heart failing them
~for sudden fear, and unlooked-for,came upon them.
So, then, whosoever fell down, was straitly kept,
shut up in a prison without iron bars. Whether it
were a whistling wind or a melodious noise of birds
among the spreading branches, or a pleasing fall of
water running violently, or a hideous noise of stones
cast down, or a running that could not be seen of
skipping beasts, or a roaring voice of most savage
wild beasts, or a rebounding echo from the hollow
mountains ; these things made them to swoon for
fear. For the whole world shined with light, and
none were biDdered in their labour; over them only
waa spread a heavy night, an image of that darkness
which should afterwards receive them."
On this interesting subject it would be easy to fol-
. , Coogle
70 PRIESTCB.AI'T
low through the mysteries of all nations, and write a
volume ; but after merely stating that the initiatory
ceremonies of Freemasons, and those of the Vehme
Gericht, or secret tribunal, once existing in Germany,
seem to derive their origin from this source, I shall
merely give a few words of Taliesin, relative to their
celebration in Britain, and return to the regular order
of my subject.
Among the apparatus of the arl mtlfJiC which the
Druids used in this ancient ceremony of being born
again, was a cauldron ; and, as in all other mysteries,
and in the initiation of a Freemason, men with
naked swords stood within the portal to cut down
every coward who would fain tum back before he
had passed through the terrors of inauguration ; the
Druids also, it appears, had to sail over the water in
this ceremony.
"Thrice the number," says Taliesin, "that would
have filled Prydwen (the magic shield of Arthur, in
which he sailed with seven champions), we entered
upon the deep,-excepting seven, none have returned
from Caer Sidi. Am I not contending for the praise
of that lore which was four times ·reviewed in the
quadrangular enclosure ? As the first sentence, waa
it not uttered from the cauldron? Is not this the
cauldron of the ruler of the deep ? With the ridge
of pearls around its border, it will not boil the food
of a coward who is not bound by his oath. Agamat
him will be l.i..fted the bright-gleaming sword, and in
the hand of the sword-bearer ahall he be left ; and
before the gates of hell shall the horns of light be
huming. When we went with Arthur in his splen-
did laboun, excepting seven, none returned from
Caer Vediwid. Am I not contending for the honour
of a lore which deserves attention ? In the quad-
rangular enclosure, in the island with the strong door.
the twilight and the pitchy darkneaa were mixed
Govglc
IN ALL AGES. 71
together, while bright wine was the beverage placed
before the narrow circle. Thrice the number that
would have filled Prydwen we embarked upon the
sea ;--excepting seven, none returned from Caer
Rigor. I will not redeem the multitudes with the
ensign of the governor. Beyond the enclosure of
glass they beheld not the prowess of Arthur. They
knew not on what day the stroke would be given,
nor at what hour in the serene day the agitated per-
son would be hom, or who preserved his going into the
dales of the possession of the waters. They knew
not the brindled ox with the thick headband. When
we went with Arthur of mournful memory, except-
ing seven, none returned from Caer Vandwy."
Caer Rigor, Sidi, Vediwid, etc., are but different
names for the Druidical enclosure of Stonehenge, or,
as they styled it, the Ark of the World. The num-
ber seven have evidently reference to the seven per-
sons of the ark; Noah himself being represented,
according to custom, by Arthur.
In another place Taliesin alludes to the doctrine
of the Metempsychosis, which was taught in those
mysteries. " I was first modelled in the form of a
pure man, in the hall of Ceridwen (the ship god-
dess), who subjected me to penance. Though small
within my ark and modest in my deportment, I was
great. A sanctuary carried me above the surface
of the earth. Whilst I was enclosed within its ribs
the sweet awen rendered me complete; and my law,
without audible language, was imparted to me by
the old giantess darkly smiling in her wrath; but her
claim was not regretted when she set sail. I fled in
the form of a fair grain of pure wheat ; upon the
edge of a covering cloth she caught me in her fangs.
In appearance she was as large as a proud mare,
which she also resembled (the Ceres-Hippa of the
Greeks, who similarly received Bacchus into her
"'Coogle
72 PRIESTCRAFT
womb); then was she swelling-out, like a ship upon
the waters. Into a dark receptacle she cast me.
She carried me back into the sea of Dylan. It waa
an auspicious omen to me when she happily suffo-
cated me; God, the Lord, freely set me at large."
To a timid aspirant, the hierophant says, "Thy
coming without external purity, is a pledge that I
will not receive thee. Take out the gloomy one.
Out of the receptacle which is thy aversion, did I
obtain the rainbow."-See DatJis's Celtic Mythology.
It may seem widely wandering from Greece to
Britain ; but it only shews more strikingly the one-
ness of the Pagan faith. And now to return.
The priests, thus providing for the tastes of all par-
ties, wealth, power, and unlimited influence became
their own. All these things were sources of gain; and
whoever would form some idea of the wealth of the
Grecian priesthood, let him ~ead in Herodotus of the
immense riches conferred on the oracular temples by
Crresus and other monarchs. Let him also learn the
following particulars from Diodorus Siculus: " The
principal hoards of treasure, both in bullion and
coined money, were in their temples, which were
crowded with presents of immense value, brought by
the superstitious from every part of Greece. These
temples were considered as national banks ; and the
priests officiated as bankers,-not always, indeed, the
most honest, as was once proved at Athens, where
the state treasurers, having expended or embezzled
the public money, had the audacity to set fire to that
part of the temple of Minerva where the treasure
was contained ; by which sacrilegious act that mag·
nificent fane was near being wholly consumed. Their
purpose, however, was fully answered, since the re·
gisters of the temple were reported to have perished
with the treasures, and all responsibility precluded."
The temple just mentioned, the superb fane of
"'Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 73
Jupiter Olympius, at Elis, and that of Apollo at
Delphi, were the principal of the three sacred deposi-
tories. The priests at all times concealed the total
sum of the treasures lodged in them with too much
caution for us to know the amount ; yet, when the
Phocenses, urged to despair by the exactions of the
Thebans, seized on the treasures of Delphi, they
amounted to 10,000 talents-above 2,250,000l. ster-
ling-and probably that was but a small portion of
what holy perfidy had previously secured. The
deposits at the great temple of Ephesus, considered
through all ages as inviolable, probably far exceeded
those of the three last mentioned.
The spirit of avarice, which in all times character-
ized the priesthood, and prompted them to such
immense accumulation, is not more detestable than
dangerous ; for, let any one reflect what must be the
consequence to a nation where the monarch and the
priest are in coalition, as is usually the case, and the
monarch, as is usually the case too, is watching to
extinguish every spark ofpopular freedom ;-what, I
say, must be the consequence when such over-
whelming resources are within his reach ? The fate
of Greece is a melancholy warning on the subject.
These immense treasures were eventually seized
upon by rapacious conquerors, and their soldiers paid
by them to enslave these renowned states; and thus
the coin drained from the people by the hands of
priestcraft, became in the hands of kingcraft, the
means of their destruction. So has it been in every
country. So was it in Palestine-so in ancient
Rome--in Constantinople ; and so pre-eminently in
India. To that country let us now proceed.
, . ,,Coogle
74 PRIESTCRAFT
CHAPTER VIII.
INDIA.
THE ancient and venerable Hindostan furnishes our
last and most triumphant demonstration of the nature
of pQ.[Jan priestcraft. In Greece we have seen that,
notwithstanding the daring, restless, and intellectual
character of the people, it contrived to obtain a most
signal infiuence ; but in India, with a people of a
gentler temperament, and where no bold spirits, like
Homer and the philosophers ofGreece,had ventured to
make the national theology popularly familiar, priest-
craft assumed its most fearless and determined air. In
all other lands it did not fail to place itself in the first
rank of honour and power; in this it went a step
further,-and promulgating a dogma diametrically op-
posite to the humanizing doctrine of the Bible, that,
" God made of one blood all the nations of the
earth ;" it riveted its chains indissolubly on the
Inind of that mighty empire. Priestcraft here ex-
hibits a marvellous spectacle. The perfection of its
craft, and the utter selfishness of its spirit, are pro-
claimed by the fact of millions on millions bound,
from the earliest ages to the present hour, in the
chains of the most slavish and soul-quelling castes,
and in the servility of a religious creed so subtilly
framed, that it almost makes hopeless the moral rege-
neration of the swarming myriads ofthese vast regions.
I have already repeatedly stated that it partakes, in
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 75
common with the whole pagan world, in one general
mythological system, and I shall not dwell on its
features more particularly. In Maurice's copious
Indian Antiquities, whence I shall chiefly draw what
I have to say, may be found ample details of
the Hindoo religion. It is well known, from a
variety of works, that this venerable empire claims
the highest antiquity, not merely of national exist-
ence, but of the possession of knowledge in philo-
sophy, literature, and the arts; it is equally known,
too, since Sir William Jones laid open the antique
stores of the Sanscrit language, that this religion has
all the common features of those mythologies, on
which I have already dwelt. It has its triad of
gods, ita doctrine of Metempsychosis, its practice of
the Phallic licentiousness, and the horrors of human
sacrifice and self-immolation. Who has not heard
of the burning of Indian widows~f the bloody and
wholesale self-slaughter at the temple of Jaggernath
~f the destruction of children, now restrained by
British interference--and of the absolute dominance
of the Brahmins? I shall pass, therefore, hastily
over these matters, and confine myself principally to
the task of displaying, in the Brahminical hierarchy,
an example of priestcraft in its most decided, undis-
guised, subtle, and triumphant character,-priest-
craft, at once in full flower and full fruit ; in that
state at which it has always aimed, but never, not
even in the bloody reign of the Papal church, ever
attained elsewhere,-stamping itself on the heart of a
great nation in its broadest and most imperishable
style, in all its avowed despotism, icy selfishness, im-
perturbablepride,and coolarroganceoffanatical power.
Two great sects exist here,-those of Buddh and
Brahma, which preserve an inviolable separation,
except in the temple of Jaggernath, where, seeming
76 PRIESTCJLAFT
to forget all their fonner prejudices, they unite in
the commission of lust and cruelty.
It is to the Brabminical sect, as the most predomi-
nant, that I shall principally confine my remarks.
These profess the mildest of doctrines, refuse to kill
any living creature for food, and subsist on milk,
fruit, and vegetables. Yet, what is at first sight
most remarkable, and what cannot be accounted for
by any other means than that of the immutable
nature of corrupted religion, they not only inflict on
themselves, under the character of y ogees, the most
horrible austerities; but have for ages encouraged the
destruction of female children ; do to the presenttime
encourage, and under the in1iuence of the most
powerful social causes, render almost necessary the
immolation of widows; sanction and stimulate, an-
nually, thousands of simple victims to destroy them-
selves at the shrine of the monstrous Jaggemath;
and, till recently, sacrificed, not only animals but men.
Of human sacrifices, the express ordination of the
Rudhiradhyaya, or sanguinary chapter of the Calica
Purana, in the fifth volume of the Asiatic Researches,
is sufficient testimony. No precepts can be con-
ceived more express, nor, indeed, more horrible, than
those which this tremendous chapter enjoins.
" By a human sacrifice, attended with the fonns
here laid down, Deva, the goddess Cali, the black
goddess of destruction, is pleased 1000 years.
" By a human sacrifice, Camachya, Chandica, and
Bbairava, who assume any shape, are pleased 1000
years. An oblation of blood whicll bas been ren-
dered pure by holy texts, is equal to ambrosia; the
head and flesh also afford much delight to Chan-
dica. Let, therefore, the learned, when paying ado-
ration to the goddess, offer blood and the head ; and
when perfonning the sacrifice to fire, make oblations
of flesh."
IN ALL AGES, 77
Here follow numerous niinute directions, none of
which I shall quote, except one ;-itself sufficiently
horrid.
"Let the sacrificer say, Hrang, hring! Cali, Cali!
0, horrid-toothed goddess ! eat, cut, destroy all the
malignant; cut with this axe ; bind, bind; seize,
seize ; drink blood ! spheng, spheng I secure, secure !
salutations to Cali !"
For the Phallic contaminations, let this pasage
from Maurice suffice. Abundant matter of the like
nature might be added; but the less said on this
subject the better. Of the recent existence of such
things, Buchanan's account of the temple of Jagger-
nath may satisfy the curious reader.
" What I shall offer on this head will be taken
from two authentic books, written at very different
periods, and therefore fully decisive as to the general
prevalence of the institution from age to age,-the
Anciennes R~lations, and Les Voyages de M. Ta-
vernier,-the former written in the 9th, the latter in
the 17th century.
"Incited, unquestionably, by the hieroglyphic em-
blems of vice so conspicuously elevated and strik- ·
..__
ingly painted in the temple of Mahadeo, the priests
ofthat deity industriously selected the most beautiful
females that could be found, and, in their tenderest
years, with great pomp and solemnity, consecrated
them, as it is impiously called, to the service of the
divinity of the pagoda. They were trained in every
art to delude and delight ; and, to the fascination of
external beauty, their artful betrayers added the
attractions arising from mental accomplishments.
Thus was an invariable rule of the Hindoos, that
wo~ have no concern with literature, dispensed with
on this infamous occasion. The moment these hap-
less creatures reached maturity, they fell victims to
78 PRIESTCB.AI!'T
the lust of the Brahmins. They were early taught
to practise the most alluring blandishments, to roll
the expressive eye of wanton pleasure, and to invite
to criminal indulgence by stealing upon the beholder
the tender look of voluptuous languishing. They
were instructed to mould their elegant and airy forms
into the most enticing attitudes, and the most las-
civious gestures, while the rapid and most graceful
motion of their feet, adorned with golden bells and
glittering with jewels, kept unison with the exquisite
nielody of their voices. Every pagoda has a band of
these young syrens, whose business on great festivals
is to dance in public before the idol, to sing hymns in
his honour, and in private to enrich the treasury of the
pagoda by the wages of prostitution. These women
are not, however, regarded in a dishonourable light;
they are considered as wedded to the idol, and they par-
take the veneration paid to him. They are forbidden
ever to desert the pagoda where they are educated,
and are never permitted to marry; but the offspring,
if any, of their criminal embraces, are considered
sacred to the idol: the boys are taught to play on
the sacred instruments used at the festivals ; and the
daughters are devoted to the abandoned occupation
of their mothers.
" The reader has, doubtless, heard and read fre-
quently of the degeneracy and venality of PRIESTs;
and we know from Herodotus, what scandalous pros-
titutions were suffered in honour of Mylitta; but a
system of corruption, so systematical, so deliberate,
and so nefarious,-and that professedly carried on in
the name, and for the advantage of religion,-stands
perhaps unrivalled in the history of the world, and
the annals of infamy. It was by degrees that the
Eleusinian worship arrived at the point of its extreme
enormity; and the obscenities, finally prevalent,
IN ALL AGES, 79
were equally regretted and disclaimed by the insti-
tutors; but in India we see an avowed plan of shame-
leas seduction and debauchery: the priest himself
converted into a base procurer; and the pagoda itself
a public brothel. The devout Mahometan traveller,
whose journey in India, in the ninth century, has
been published by M. Renaudot, and from which
account this description is partly taken, concludes
the article by a solemn thanksgiving to the Almighty,
that be and his nation were delivered from the errors
of infidelity, and were unstained by the enormities of
so criminal a devotion."
In a country so immensely rich, and so obedient
to the dictations of priestcraft, the avarice of the
sacerdt>tal tribe would accumulate enormous treasures.
We have recently alluded to the hordes gathered by
priestly hands into the temples of Greece. In the
temple of Belus in Assyria, there were three prodi-
gious statues, not of cast, but of beaten gold, of
Jupiter, Juno, and Rhea. That of Jupiter was erect,
in a walking attitude ; forty feet in height; and
weighed a thousand Babylonian talents. The statue
of Rhea was of the same weight, but sitting on a
throne of gold, with two lions standing before her,
and two huge serpents in silver, each weighing thirty
talents. Juno was erect; weighed eight hundred
talents; her right hand grasped a serpent by the
head, and her left a golden sceptre, encrusted with
gems. Before these statues stood an altar of beaten
gold, forty feet long, fifteen broad, and five hundred
talents in weight. On this. altar stood two vast
flagons, each weighing thirty talents; two censers for
incense, each five hundred talents; and, finally, three
vessels for the consecrated wine, weighing nine hun-
dred talents.
The statue of Nebuchadnezzar, in the plain of
80 PlUESTCB.AFT
Dura, formed of the gold heaped up by David and
Solomon, Dr. Prideaux calculated at one thousand
talents of gold, in value three millions and a half
sterling.
Herodotus tells us, that Crresus frequently sent to
Delphi amazing presents; and burnt, in one holo-
caust, beds of gold and silver, ornamental vessels of
the same metals, purple robes, silke~ carpets, and
other rich furniture, which he consumed in one pile,
to render that oracle propitious; while the wealthiest
citizens of Sardis threw into the fire their most costly
furniture : so that out of the melted mass, .one hun-
dred and seventeen golden tiles were cast; the least,
three spans long, the largest six, but all one span in
thickness; which were placed in the temple.
When Cambyses burnt the temple of Thebes in
Egypt, there were saved from the flames three
hundred talents of gold, and two thousand three
hundred talents of silver ; and amongst the spoils
of that temple was a stupendous circle of gold, in-
scribed with the Zodiacal characters, and astrono-
micalfigures, which encircled the tomb ofOxymandial.
At Memphis he obtained still greater sacred wealth.
These seem astounding facts ; but before the sacer-
dotal wealth and templar splendour of India, they
shrink into insignificance. The principal use which
the Indiana seem to have made of the immenae
quantities of bullion, from age to age, imported into
their empire, was to melt it down into statuea of
their deities ;· if, indeed, by that title we may deno-
minate the personified attitudes of the Almighty,
and the elements of nature. Their pagodas were
crowned with these golden and silver statues; they
thought any inferior metal must degrade the divinity.
Every house too, was crowded with statues of their
ancestors ; those ancestors that were exalted to the
IN ALL AGES, 81
stars for their piety, or valour. The very altars of
the temples were of massy gold ; the incense flamed
in censers of gold, and golden chalices bore their
sacred oil, honey, and wine. The temple of Auruna,
the day-star, had.its lofty walls ofprophyry internally
covered with broad plates of gold, sculptured in rays,
that, diverging every way, dazzled the beholder;
while the radiant image of the deity burned in gems
of infinite variety and unequalled beauty, on the
spangled fioor. The fioor of the great temple of
Naugracut, even so late as in the time of Mandesloe,
was covered with plates of gold; and thus the
Hindoo, in his devotion, trampled upon the god of
half mankind.
In the processions also, made in honour of their
idols, the utmost magnificence prevailed. They then
brought forth all the wealth of the temple; and every
order of people strove to outvie each other in display-
ing their riches, and adding to the pomp. The
elephants marched first, richly decorated with gold
and silver ornaments, studded with precious stones;
chariots overlaid with those metals, and loaded with
them in ingots, advanced next; then followed the
sacred steers, coupled together with yokes of gold,
and a train of the noblest and most beautiful beasts of
the forest, by nature fierce and sanguinary, but
rendered mild and tractable by the skill of man: an
immense multitude of priests carrying vessels, plates,
diahes, and other utensils, all of gold, adorned with
diamonds, rubies, and sapphires, for the sumptuous
feast of which the gods were to partake, brought up
the rear. During all this time, the air was rent with
the sound of various instruments, martial and
festive; and the dancing girls displayed in their
sumptuous apparel, the wealth of whole provinces,
exhausted to decorate beauty devoted to religion.
G
82 PRIESTCRAF'i'
The Arabians burst upon India, like a torrent;-
their merciless grasp seized the whole prey! The
western provinces first felt their fury. The Rajah of
Lahore, when taken, had about his neck sixteen
strings of jewels; each of which was valued at a
hundred and eighty thousand rupees·: and the whole
at three hundred and twenty thousand pounds sterling.
A sum, however, comparatively trifling, when com-
pared with that of which the Sultan of Gazna after-
wardsbecame masterinhis emption into that province;
and which Mirkhond states at seven millions of coin
in gold, seven hundred· maunds of gold in ingots,
together with an inestimable quantity of pearls and
precious stones. The maund is a Persian weight,
never estimated at less than forty pounds.
Let us attend this valiant marauder on another or
two of his plundering expeditions into Hindostan.
At the holy fane of Kreeshna, at Mathura, he found
five great idols of pure gold, with eyes of rubies, of
immense value. He found also three hundred idols
of silver, which being melted down, loaded as many
camels with bullion; the usual load of a camel being
from seven hundred to one thousand two hundred
pounds weight. At the great temple of Sumnaut, he
found many thousands of gold and silver idols of
smaller magnitude; a chain of gold, which was sus-
pended from the roof, and weighed forty maunds;
besides an inestimable horde of jewels of the first
water. This prince, a day or two before his death,
ordered his whole treasury to be placed before him;
and having for some time, from his throne, feasted
his eyes on the innumerable sacks of gold, and
caskets of precious stones, burst into te8.1'9--perhaps
from the recollection of the bloodshed and atrocities
by which they had been accumulated-but more
probably from the feeling of the vanity of all human
IN ALL AGES, 83
cupidity and power,-a dismal conviction that they
.could not save him, but that they must pass to other
hands, and he to the doom of eternity.
Immense quantities of the beautiful coins of Greece
and Rome are suppoaed to have passed to India in
the great trade of the ancients with it, for wpices, silks,
gems, and other precious articles, and to have been
melted down in the crucible, without the least regard
to the grandeur.of their design, the majesty of the
characters impressed, or the beauty of their execution,
and went to swell the magnificence of the pagodas.
We are well assured, that all the great pagodas of
India had complete sets, amounting to an immense
number, of the avaters and deities, which were deemed
degraded if they were of baser metal than silver
and gold; except in those instances where their
religion required their idol to be of stone, as 1agger-
nath; which had, however, the richest jewels of
Golconda for eyes ; and Vishnu, in the great basin of
Catmandu, in Nepaul. Such was the wealth ga-
thered by the T&J1;ars in this wonderful country, that
Mahmoud of Gazna made feasts that la~~ted a month;
and the officers of.his army rode on saddles of gold,
glittering with precious stone8; and his descendant,
Timur, made a .feast on a delightful plain, called
Canaugha, or the ..treasury of roses, at which was
exhibited such a display of gold and jewels, that in
comparison, the riehes of Xerxes and Darius were
trifi.iag. .The .treasur.es which Timur took in Delhi,
were most enormous ;-precious stones, pearls, rubies,
and diamonds, thousands of which were tom from the
ears and necks of. the native women; and gold and
gems from their arms, ancles, and dress : gold and
silver vessels,.mqney,. and.bullion, were carried away
in such profusion by .the army, that the comJDon
soldiers abaol11tely refused to encumber themselves
Coogle
84 PB.IESTCB.AFT
with more; and an abundant harvest of plunder was
left to future invaders.
Mahmoud of Gazna hearing astonishing account&
of the riches of the great pagoda of Sumnaut, whose
roof was covered with plates of gold and encircled
with rubies, emeralds, and other precious stones,
besieged the place, and took it. On entering the
temple, he was struck with astonishment at the
inestimable riches it contained. In the fury of his
Mahommedan zeal against idols, he smote off the
nose of the great image. A crowd of Brahmins,
frantic at his treatment of their god, offered the most
extravagant sums for his desistance; but the soldiers
of Mahmoud only proceeded with greater ardour to
demolish it, when behold! on breaking its body, it
was found to be hollow, and to contain an infinite
variety of diamonds, rubies, and pearls of a water so
pure, and a magnitude so uncommon, that the be-
holders were overwhelmed with astonishment. But
the riches accumnlated by the priests of this affiuent
region were so immense, that they exceed the power
of the imagination to grasp them ; and I shall leave
this subject with what Mr. Orme, in his History of
Hindostan, tells us :-that the Brahmins slumbered
in the most luxurious repose in these splendid
pagodas ; and that the numbers accommodated in the
body of the great ones, was astonishing. He acquaints
us that pilgrims came from all parts of the Peninsulato
worship at that of Seringham, but none without an
offering of money ; that a large part of the revenue
of the island is allotted for the maintenance of the
Brahinins who inhabit it ; and that these, with their
families, formerly composed a mnltitude, not less in
number than forty thousand souls, supported with·
out labour, by the liberality of superstition.
So much for the ease and afiluence of the Brah-
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 85
minical life; now for a glance at that system which
they had rendered so prolific of good things;-a
system, the most awful that ever proceeded from the
genius of priestcraft, fertile in cunning and profitable
schemes. I have already shewn that in all nations
the priests placed themselves at the head, and even
controlled the king, as they often chose him. Butin
India, the Brahmins went, as I have remarked, still
further. Here, in order to rivet for ever their chains
on the people, they did not merely represent them-
selves as a noble and inviolable race, but they
divided the whole community into four castes. They
wrote a book, and entitled it, " The Institutes of
Menu," the son of Brahma. This book contained
the whole code of their religious laws, which, as pro-
ceeding from the divinity, were to last for all time,-
be for ever and indissolubly binding on every Hindoo ;
and not to be violated in the smallest degree, except
on pain offorfeiting all civil privileges and enjoyments,
of life itself, and of incurring the torments of hell.
These castes were to preserve for ever their respective
stations. Those born in one, were not only not to
·pass into another, but every man was bound to follow
the profession of his father. Whatever might be the
difference of genius, it must be crushed ; whatever
desire to amend the condition of life, it must be
extinguished ; all variety of Inind, all variations of
physical constitution, all unfitness for one trade,
station, or pursuit, went for nothing :-to this most
infernal of priestly impositions, man, with all his
hopes and desires, his bodily weaknesses, his mental
aspirations, or repugnances, must succumb, and be
lulled, or rather, cramped into an everlasting stupor,
that the privileged Brabinin might tax him and
terrify him, and live upon his labours, in the bound-
len enjoyment of his own pride, and insolence, and
86 PRIESTCRAFT
lust. " By this arrangement;" ·says ··Mr. Maurice,
" it should be remembered, the happiness and lle·
curity of a vast empire was preserved through a long·
series of ages under their early sovereigns ; by curb-
ing the fiery spirits of ambitious individuals, intestine·
feuds were,.in a great measure; prevented.; the WIUlts
of an immense population were amply provided ~- .
by the industry of the labouring classes i' ·and tht!
several branches of trade and manufacture were
carried to the utmost degree of attainable perfection...
A singular kina of happiness, and one which none ·
but a 'priest could have a conception of. To phlrige
a great nation into the everlasting sleep and slug• ·
gishness of ecclesiastical despotism, is to skirrs ·its
happiness !-the happiness of beaSts maintained for
the vlllue of their labour, and fattened for the
butcher ;-a happiness, which in the_very sentence ·
preceding, the writer terms " a barbarous attempt to
cltain down the powers of the human soul, to cheek the
ardour of emulation, and dantp the fire of genius.''
To establish this system the :Sl1lhmins resorted to
the daring fraud of representing Menu-supposed to
be Noah-as not "making all men of the same
blood," but as producing fourdifferenttribe11 of men.
The first, ·the Brahmins, from .·hill' mouth ; tlae
second, the Kettri, or Rajahs, ·from ·his arm ; the
third, the Bice, or merchants, frorn llis thigh ; and
the fourth, the Sooder,· or labourm~ tribe, from Ids
foot I Thus this doctrine, once recmed e.s true, m
everlasting ·and impassable bal' was placed between.
each tribe-divine Mithorlty. That it should not l>&
endangered, the land of India was declared holy ; abd
the Hindoos were forbidde11, by all the terrors of tem-
poral and eternal penalties, to go out of it. The
Brahmins having thus, in the early ages of supersti-
tioua ignorance, taken thi• strong ground, proceeded
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 87
to fortify it still further. The Rajahs, or provincial
rolers were all chosen from their own, or the war-
tribe ; and the Marajah, or supreme King, was
always chosen by them, often from themselves, and
was entirely in their hands. By them he was
educated, and moulded to their wishes ; they were
appointed, by these divine institutes, his guardians,
and perpetual, inalienable counsellors.
Having thus firmly seized and secured the whole
political power, they had only to role and enrich
themselves out of a nation of slaves, at their plea-
sure ; paying them with promises of future hap-
piness, or terrifying them by threats of future
vengeance, into perfect passiveness ; and so com-
pletely had this succeeded that, for thousands of
ye&l'8, their system has continued ; and it is the
opinion of Sir William 1ones, that so ingeniously is
it woven into the souls of the Hindoos, that they
will be the very last people converted to Christianity.
For what, indeed, can be done with a nation who,
from time immemorial, have been accustomed to
regard their priests as beings of a higher nature,-
their laws as emanations from Heaven,-and them-
selves as the creatures of an unescapable destiny :
who, on the one hand, are stunned with fear of future
torments, IUld, on the other, are exposed to the
dagger of the first man they meet, authorized by
thoae pretendedly divine institutes to cut down every
apostate that he encounters ? . From such a con-
summate labyrinth of priestly art nothing short of
a miracle seems eapable of rescuing them.
The Brahmins, like the popish priests,for the arts of
priests are the same everywhere, reserve to themselves
the inviolable right of reading the Vedas, or holy
books, and thus impose on the people what doetrines
they please. So scrupulously do they guard against
88 PRIESTCRAI'T
the exposure of their real contents, that it is only in
comparatively modem times that they have become
known. A singular story is told of the Emperor
Akbar, who, desiring to learn the Hindoo tenets,
applied to the Brahmins, and was refused. Here-
upon he had the brother of his faithful minister,
_Abul Fazil, a youth, brought up with a Brahmin,
under a feigned character : but, after a residence of
ten years, and at the moment of being about to
return to court, owing to his attachment to the
Brahmin's daughter, he confessed the fraud, and
would have been instantly stabbed by his preceptor,
had he not entreated him for mercy on his knees,
and bound himself by the most solemn oaths, not to
translate the Vedas, nor reveal the mysteries of the
Brahmin creed. These oaths he faithfully kept
during the life of the old Brahmin ; but afterwards
he conceived himself absolvedfrom them, and to him
we owe the publication of the real contents of those
sacred volumes.
But let us look at the system a little more at
large. " Though," says Maurice, "the functions of
government by the laws of Menu devolved on the
Kettri, or Rajah tribe ; yet it is certain that in every
age of the lntlian empire, aspiring Brahmins have
usurped and swayed the imperial sceptre. But, in
fact, there was no necessity for the Brahmin to
grasp at empire,-he wielded both the empire and
the monarch. By an overstrained conception of the
priestly character, artfully encouraged, for political
purposes, by the priest himself, and certainly not
justified by any precept given by Noah to his pos-
terity, the Brahmin stood in the place of deity to the
infatuated sons of Indian superstitioB ; the will of
heaven was thought to issue from his lips ; and his
decision was reverenced as the fiat of destiny. Thu
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 89
boasting the positive interposition of the Deity in the
fabrication of its singular institutions; guarded from
infraction by the terror of exciting the divine wrath ;
and directed principally by the sacred tribe, the
Indian government may be considered as a theocracy
-a theocracy the more terrible, because the name of
God was perverted to sanction and support the most
dreadful species of despotism ;·-a despotism which,
not content with subjugating the body, tyrannized
over the prostrate faculties of the enslaved mind.
" An assembly of Brahmins sitting in judgment on
a vicious, a tyrannical king, may condemn him to
death ; and the sentence is recorded to have been
executed ; but no crime affects the life of a Bralunin.
He may suffer temporary degradation from his caste,
but his blood must never stain the·sword ofjustice;
he is a portion of the Deity. He is inviolable ! he is
invulnerable ! he is immortal !
" In eastern climes, where despotism has ever
reigned in its meridian terror, in order to impress
the deeper awe and respect upon the crowd that daily
thronged around the tribunal, the hall of justice was
anciently surrounded with the ministers of vengeance,
who generally inflicted in presence of the monarch
the sentence to which the culprit was doomed. The
envenomed serpent which was to sting him to death ;
the enraged elephant that was to trample him beneath
its feet ; the dreadful instruments that were to rend
open his bowels, to tear his lacerated eye from the
socket, to impale alive, or saw the shuddering wretch
asunder, were constantly at hand. The audience
chamber, with the same view, was decorated with
the utmost cost and magnifj.cence, and the East was
rifled of its jewels to adorn it. Whatever little
credit may in general be due to Philostratus, his de-
. acription of the palace of Musicanus too nearly resem-
90 PRJBSTCJLAPT
bles the accounts of our own countrymen, of the
present magnificence of some of the rajahs, to be
doubted, especially in thoae times when the hoarded
wealth of India had not been pillaged. The arti-
ficial vines of gold, adorned with buds of various
colours in jewellery, .and thick set with precious
stones, emeralds, and rubies, hangin~ in clusters to
resemble grapes in their different stages to maturity :
the silver censers of perfume constantly home before
the ruler as a god: the robe of gold and purple with
which he was invested; and the litter of gold fringed
with pearls, in which he was carried in a march, or to
the chase,-these were the appropriate ornaments and
distinctions of an Indian monarch.
" In short, whatever could warmly interest the
feelings, and strongly agitate the pasaions of men ;
whatever influences hope ; excites terror ; all the
engines of a most despotic superstition and a moat
refined policy, were set at work for the purpose of
chaining down to the prescribed duties of his caste
the mind of the bigoted Hindoo. Hence his un-
altered, unalterable attachment to the national code,
and the Brahminical creed. A1 it has been in India
f'rom the beginning, so will it continue to the end of
time. For the daring culprit who violates either,
heaven has no fo:rgi.veneas, and earth no place of
shelter or repose !
" An adultreu is condemned to be devonred aHve
by dogs in the public market-place. The adulterer
is doomed to be bound to an iron bed, heated red-
hot, and burned to death. But what ia not a little
remarkable, for the 1ame crime a Brahmin is only to
be punished with ignominious tonsure.
" For insulting a Brahmin, an iron style, ten fin·
gers long, shall be tbru.lt, red-hot, down the culprit's
mouth. For offering only to instruct him in hia
IN ALL AGES. 91
profession, boiling oil shall be .dropped in his mouth
and ears. For stealing kine, belonging to priests,
the offender shall instantly lose half one foot. An
assaulter of a Brahmin, with intent to kill, shall
remain In hell for a hundred years ; for actually
striking him, with like intent, a thousand years. But
though such frequent exceptions occur in favour of
Brahmins, none are made in favour of kings ! The
Brahmin,-eldest-bom of the gods,-who loads their
altars with incense, who feeds them with clarified
honey, imd whose, in fact, is the wealth of the whole ·
world, ever keeps his elevated station. To maintain
him in hcly and voluptuous indolence, the Kettri, .
or Rajah, exposes his life in front of battle ; the
merchant covers the ocean with his ships ; the toiling
husbandman incessantly tills the burning soil ofIndia.
We cannot doubt, after this, which of the Indian
castes compiled this volume from the remembered
Irt.atilulea of Menu.
" The everlasting servitude of the Soodra tribe is
riveted upon that unfortunate caste by the laws of
destiny; since the Soodra was bam a slave, and even
when emancipated by his indulgent master, a slave
he must continue: fur, ofa state which is natural to him,
by whom·can he be. divested? The Soodra must be
contented to lertJe; this is his unalterable doom. To
serve in the family of a Brahmin is the highest glory,
and leads him to beatitude."
There is, however, a fifth tribe,-that of the out-
casts from all the rest,-the Chandelahs ; those who
have lost caste, and the children of mixed niarriages,
that abhorrence- of the Hindoo code, for, if once per-
mitted, it would overturn the whole artful system. It
is ordained that the Chandelah exist remote from
their fellow-creatures, amid the dirt and filth of the
suburbs. Their sole.wealth must consist in dogs and
Coogle
92 PRIESTCRAFT .
asses ; their clothes must be the polluted mantles of
the dead ; their dishes for food, broken pots ; their
ornaments, rusty iron; their food must be given them
in potsherds, at a distance, that the giver may not be
defiled by the shade of their outcast bodies. Their
business is to carry out the corpses of those who die
without kindred; they are the public executioners;
and the whole that they can be heirs to, are the clothes
and miserable property of the wretched malefactors.
Many other particulars of this outcast tribe are added
by authors on India, and they form in themselves no
weak proof of the unrelenting spirit of the Hindoo
code, that could thus doom a vast class of people,-a
fifth of the nation,-to unpitied and unmerited
wretchedness. An Indian, in his bigoted attach-
ment to the Metempsychosis, would fly to save the
life of a noxious reptile ; but, were a Chandelah fall-
ing down a precipice, he would not extend a hand
to save him from destruction. In such abomination
are the Chandelahs held on the Malabar side of India,
that if one chance to touch one of a superior tribe, he
draws his sabre and cuts him down on the spot.
Death itse~ that last refuge of the unfortunate, offen
no c01nfort to him, affords no view of felicity or
reward. The gates of 1aggernath itself are shut
against him ; and he is driven, with equal disgrace,
from the society of men and the temples of the gods.
Such is the picture of priestcraft in India; such the
terrible spectacle of its effects, as they have existed
there from nearly the days of the Flood. Towards
this horrible and disgusting goal, it has laboured to
lead men in all countries and all ages ; but here
alone, in the whole pagan world, it has succeeded to
the extent of its diabolical desires. We might add
numberless other features : the propitiatory sacri-
fice of cows, and trees of gold, prescribed by the
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 93
avaricious Brahmins ; the immunities and privileges
with which they have surrounded themselves ; the
bloody rites they have laid on others, especially
among the Mahrattas, where, even at the present day,
human sacrifices are supposed to abound; the tortures
they have induced the infatuated Yogees to inflict on
themselves-some going naked all their lives, suffer-
ing their hair and beard to grow till they cover their
whole bodies,-standing motionless, in the sun, in
the most painful attitudes, for years, till their arms
grow fast above their heads, and their nails pierce
through their clenched hands,-scorching themselves
over fires,-enclosing themselves in cages,-and
enacting other incredible horrors on themselves, for
the hope, inspired by the Brahmins, of attaining
everlasting felicity. But the subject is too revolting;
I tum from it in indignation, and here close my
review of priestcraft in the pagan world.
94 .PRIESTCRAFT
CHAPTER IX.
THE HEBREWS.
WE have now gone ~o and fro in the earth, .and
bave walked up and down in it ; not, ).ike a certain
celebrated character, seeking whom we might dev0ur,
but inquiring who have been devoured of priests ;
and everywhere we have made but one discovery ;
everywhere, in lands, however distant, and times,
however remote, a suffering people, and a proud and
imperious priesthood have been found. Sinbad the
sailor, in his multifarious and adventurous wander-
ings, once chanced to land in a desert island, in
which a strange creature, the Old Man of the Sea,
leapt upon his shoulders, and there, spite of all his
efforts to dislodge him, night and day, for a long
time, maintained his station. By day, he com-
pelled poor Sinbad, by a vigorous application of hia
heels to his ribs, to go where he pleased,-beneath
the trees, whence he plucked fruit, or to the stream,
where he drank. By night, he still clung, even in
his sleep, with such sensitiveness to his neck, that it
was impossible to unseat him. At length a succesa-
ful stratagem presented itself to Sinbad. He found
a gourd, and squeezed into it the juice of the grape.
and set it in a certain place till it had fermented, and
became strong wine. This he put to the mouth of
the Old Man of the Sea, who drank it greedily•
became drunk, and fell asleep so soundly, that Sinbad
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 95
unfolded his clinging legs from his breast, hurled him
from his shoulders, and, as he lay, crushed his head
with a stone. The adventure of Sinbad was awkward
enough, but that of poor human nature has been
infinitely worse. THE OLD MAN oF THE CHURCH,
froin age to age, from land to land, has ridden on the
shoulders of humanity, and set at defiance all endea-
vours and all schemes to dislodge him. Unlike the
Old Man of the Sea, whose best beverage was a brook,
he is too well inured to strong drinks to be readily
overcome by them. He is one of those drinkers
called deep-stomached, and strong-headed; who sit
out all guests, dare and bear all spirituous potations,
and laugh, in invulnerable comfort, over the intoxica-
tion of the prostrated multitude. &d what wonder?
His soot has ever been at the boards of princes. The
most sparkling cup has not passed him by untasted ;
the most fiery fluid has·not daunted him. He has
received the vintages reserved solely for kings and
their favourites; and though there was blood in it, he
has not blenched. The tears of misery dropped into
it, could not render it too bitter ; the bloody sweat-
drops of despair too poisonous : though the sound of
battle was in his ears, he ceased not to grasp the
flagon,-it was music,-though martyrs burned at
their stakes before him, and the very glow of their
fires came strongly upon him, he interrupted not his
carouse, but only cooled more gratefully his wine.
He has quaffed the juice of all vines ; presided at the
festivities of all nations; poured libations to all gods:
in the wild orgies of the ancient German and British ·
forests he has revelled; in the midnight feast of skulls
he has pledged the savage and the cannibal; the war-
feast of the wilderness, or the sacred banquet of the
refined Greek, alike found him a guest ; he has taken
the cup of pollution from the hand of the Babylonian
"" ,,Coogle
96 PRIESTCRAPT
harlot; and pledged, in the robes of the Gallic
Primate, renunciation of the Christian religion with
the Atheist. Lover of all royal fetes ; delighter in
the crimson-cushioned ease of all festivals in high
places ; soul of all jollity where the plunderers and
the deluders of man met to rejoice over their achiev-
ments ; inspirer of all choice schemes for the destruc-
tion of liberty and genuine knowledge when the
vintage of triumphant ~ud ferments in his brain, till
the wine of God's wrath, in the shape of man's indig-
nation, confound him,-what shall move him from
his living throne ? From the days of the Flood to
those of William the Fourth of England he has ridden
on, exultingly, the everlasting incubus of the groaning
world.
We have perambulated the prime nations of.pagan-
ism. It would have been easy to have extended our
researches further, to have swelled our details to
volumes ; but the object was only to give a sample
from the immense mass of ecclesiastical enormities.
We now come to the Holy Land; and to the only
priesthood ever expressly ordained of heaven. It
might have been expected that this would proTe a
splendid exception to the general character of the
order; but alas !-as the Jewish dispensation was
formed under the pressing necessity of guarding
against the idolatry of surrounding nations, and as
merely preparatory to a more spiritual one, so it
would seem as if one design of the Almighty had
been to shew how radically mischievous and prone to
evil an ecclesiastical order is, under any circum-
stances. The Jewish priests had this advantage
over all others whatever, that they were one tribe
of a great family, to whom, in sharing out the land
given to them of God, the altar was made their
sole inheritance,-the whole country being divided
IN ALL AG.ES. 97
amongst the other eleven tribes. But, notwithstand-
ing this fair title, so strongly did the universal spirit
of priestcraft work in them, that their history may
be comprised in a few sentences, and is one of the
most striking in the world. It began in Aaron with
idolatry, accompanied by most pitiful evasions; it
shewed itself in its prime, in the sons of Eli, in
shameless peculation and lewdness ; and it ended
in the crucifixion of Christ ! Such a beginning-
a middle-and an end-the world besides cannot
shew.
When we hear Aaron telling the people, in the face
of the most astounding miracles,-when the sound
of God's trumpets, which had shaken them to the
earth, in terror, had yet scarcely ceased to ring in
their ears,-when God himself, in a fiery majesty,
that made the mountain before them smoke and
tremble to its base, was at hand delivering to
Moses his eternal law-hear him telling them to
bring their golden ornaments, and he would make
a god to go before them; and, in the next moment,
telling Moses that the people constrained him,
and he threw the gold into the fire, and " out
eame this calf," as if by accident, -we are filled
with contempt for sacerdotal sycophancy and time-
serving.
When we read that " the sons of Eli were the
sons of Belial,...,.-they knew not the Lord:-and the
priests' custom was, that when any man offered
sacrifice, the priests' servant came while the flesh
was in seething, with a flesh-hook of three teeth
in his hand; and he strook it into the pan, or kettle,
or cauldron, or pot;-all that the flesh-hook brought
up, the priest took for himself. So they did in
Shiloh, to all the Israelites that came thither. Also.
H
98 PJUESTCRAFT
before they burnt the fat the priests' servant came,
and said to the man that sacrificed, ' give flesh to
roast for the priest, for he will not have sodden
flesh of thee, but raw.' And if any man said unto
him, 'let them not fail to bum the 'fat presently,
and then take as much as thy soul Aesireth;' and
then he would answer him,-' Nay, but thou shalt
give it me now; and if not, I will take it by
force.' Therefore the sin of the young men was
very great before the Lord; for men abhorred the
offering of the Lord. Now Eli was very old,
and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel ;
and how they lay with the women that assembled
at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation."
When we read this, we are on fire with indignation.
But when we hear the chief priests crying out
against Christ-the hope, nay, the great object
of the formation of their nation,-the most meek,
and pure, and beneficent being that ever existed-
" away with this fellow ! he is not fit to live !
Away with him! crucify him!" we are thunder-
struck with astonishment !-we are silenced and
satisfied for ever, of the rooted and incurable ma-
lignancy of priestcraft. If God himself descended
from heaven, and charged a priestly hierarchy with
corruption, they would tell him to his face, that
he lied. They would assail him as a slanderer
and misrepresenter of the good, and raise, if pos-
sible, his own world in arms against him ! If the
fate of all other nations spoke to us in vain-that
of the Jews should be an eternal warning. The
very priests which God ordained, first corrupted,
and then destroyed the kingdom. They began
with idolatry, and ended with killing the Son
of God himself. Their victims, the Jews, still
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 99
walk before our eyes, a perpetual and fearful testi-
mony against them. It was the priests who
mainly contributed to annihilate them for ever as
a people, and to disperse them through all re-
gions, the objects of tke contempt, the loathing,
and the pitiless persecution of all ages, and of
every race.
H2
100 PB.IESTCRAPT
CHAPTER X.
POPERY,
0 that the free would stamp the impious name
Of Pope into the dust! or write 1t there,
So that this blot upon the page of fame
Were as a serpent's path, which the light air
Erases, and the flat sands close behind !
• Ye the oracle have beard ;
Lift the victory-flashing-sword,
And cut the snaky knots of this foul Gordian word,
Which, weak itself as stubble, yet can bind
Into a mass, irrefragahly firm,
The axes and the rods whtch awe mankind.
The sound has poison in it-'t is the sperm
Of what makes life foul, cankerous, and abhorred;
Disdain not then, at thine appointed term,
To set thine armed heel on this reluctant worm.
SHELLEY.
CHRIST appeared;- the career of Paganism was
checked;-the fate of Judaism was sealed. A cha-
racter and a religion were placed before the eyes of
men hitherto inconceivable in the beauty and phi-
lanthropy of their nature. Unlike all other founders
of a religious faith, Christ had no selfishness, no
desire ofdominance; and his system, unlike all other
systems of worship, was bloodless, boundlessly bene-
ficent, inexpressibly pure, and, most marvellous of
all, went to break all bonds of body and soul; and
to cast down every temporal and every spiritual
tyranny. It was a system calculated for the whole
IN ALL AGES. 101
wide universe ;-adapted to embrace men of all
climes, all ages, all ranks of life, or intellect; for
the rich and for the poor ; for the savage and the
civilized; for the fool and the philosopher; for man,
woman, and child ;-which, recognizing the grand
doctrine, that " God made of one blood all the nations
of the earth," represented the Almighty as the father,
and all men as brethren born to one universallove,-
to the same inalienable rights,-...-to the same eternal
hope. He himself was the living personification of
his principles. Demolishing the most inveterate
prejudices of men, by appearing a poor man amongst
the poor; by tearing from aristocratic pride and
priestly insolence their masks of most orthodox
assurance ; by proclaiming, that the truth which he
taught should make all men free ; by declaring that
the Gentiles lorded it over, and oppressed one another,
hut that it should not be so with his followers ; by
pulling down with indignation spiritual pride in high
places, and calling the poor and affiicted, his brethren,
and the objects of his tenderest regard,-he laid the
foundations of civil and religious freedom, of mental
power growing out of unrestrained mental energies,
and of love and knowledge co-equal in extension
with the world. This perfect freedom of universal
man he guarded by leaving no DECREES; but merely
great, and everlasting principles, intelligible to the
mind and conscience of the whole human race ; and
on which, men in all countries, might found institu-
tions most consonant to their wants. By declaring
that " wherever two or three were met together in
his name, he would be in the midst of them," he cut
off, for ever, every claim, the most specious, of
priestly dominance ; and by expressing his un-
qualified and indignant abhorrence of every desire of
his disciples "to call down fire from heaven upon
Coogle
102 PRIESTCJI.AFT
his enemies," or to forbid those to preach aad work
miracles in his name, who did not immediately fol-
low him, and conform to their notions, he left to his
church a light more resplendent than that of the SUJl,
on the subject of non-interference with the sacred
liberty and prerogatives of conscience.
One would have thought that from this epoch, the
arm of priestcraft would have been broken ; that it
would never more have dared to raise its head ;-but
it is a principle of shameless avidity and audacity;
and it is exactly from this time that we trace the
most amazing career of its delusions and atrocitiel,
down to the very day of our own existence.
Who is not familiar with the horrors and arrogant
assumptions of the papal church 1 Scarcely had the
persecutions of the pagan emperors ceased, when the
Christian church became inundated with corruptions
and superstitions of every kind. Coutantine em-
braced Christianity; and almost the whole world
embraced it nominally with him. From a conversion
of such a kind, the work of regal example and
popular interested hopes, what effects were to be
expected? The martial tyra~y of ancient Rome,
which had subdued the world, was coming to an
end. The wealth of which a thousand states had
been stripped, had turned to poison in her bosom,
and brought upon the stern mistress of bloodshed
and tears that retribution, from which national rapine
and injustice never eventually escape. But as if the
ghost of departed despotism hovered over the Seven
Hills, and sought only a fresh body to arise in a
worse shape, a new tyranny commenced in the form
of priestcraft, ten times more terrible and hateful
than the old,-because it was one which sought to
subjugate not merely the persons of men, but to
extinguish knowledge; to cru&h into everlasting
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 103
childishness the human mind; and to rule it, in its
fatuity, with mysteries and terrors. The times
favoured the attempt. With the civil power of the
Roman empire, science and literature were disappear-
ing. A licentious army controlled the destiny of a
debauched and effeminated people ; and the Gothic
and Hunnish nations, rushing in immense torrents
over the superannuated states of Europe, scattered,
for, a time, desolation, poverty, and ignorance. At
this crisis, while it had to deal with hordes of rough
warriors, who, strong in body and boisterous in
manner, had yet minds not destitute of great energies,
and many traditional maxims of moral and judicial
excellence, but clothed in all the simple credulity of
children,-up rose the spirit of priestcraft in Rome,
and assumed all its ancient and inflated claims. As
if the devil, stricken with malice at the promulgation
of Christianity, which threatened to annihilate his
power, had watched the opportunity to inflict on it
the most fatal wound, and had found no instrument
so favourable to his purpose as a priest,-such a
glorious and signal triumph never yet was his from
the creation of the world. Had he devised a system
for himself, he could not have pitched upon one like
popery ;-a system which, pretending to be that of
Christ, suppressed the Bible,-extinguished know-
ledge,-locked up the human mind,-amused it with
the most ludicrous baubles,-and granted official
licenses to ~ommit all species of crimes and impurity.
Satan himself became enthroned on the Seven Hills
in the habit of a priest, and grinned his broadest
delight ainidst the public and universal reign of
ignorance, hypocrisy, venality, and lust.
As if the popes had studied the pagan hierarchies,
they brought into concentrated exercise all their
various tmgines of power, deception, and corruption.
,b,Google
104 PltlESTCR.\FT
They could not, indeed, assert, as the pagan priest-
hood had done, that they were of a higher origin than
the rest of mankind ; and therefore entitled to sit as
kings, to choose all kings, and rule over all kings ;
for it was necessary to preserve some public alle-
giance to the doctrines ofChristianity,--but they took
ground quite as effective. They declared them-
selves the authorized vicegerents of heaven; making
Christ's words to Peter their charta-" On this rock
· I will build my church,"-hence assertingthemselves
to be the only true church, though they never could
shew that St. Peter ever was at Rome at all. On.
this ground, however-enough for the simple war-
riors of the time-they proceeded to rule over nations
and kings. On this ground they proclained the in-
fallibility of the pope and his conclave of cardinals,
and thus excluded all dissent. Their first act, having
once taken this station, was that which had been the
practice of priests in all countries,-to shut up the
true knowledge amongst themselves. As the priests
of Egypt and Greece inclosed it in mysteries, they
wrapt the simple truths of the gospel in mysteries too;
as the Brahmins forbid any except their own order
to read the sacred Vedas,-they shut up the Bible,-
the very book given to enlighten the world ;-the
very book which declared of its own contents, that
" they were so clear that he who ran might read
them;" that they taught a way of life so perspicuous
that " the wayfaring man, though a fool, could :qpt
err therein." This was the most daring and auda-
cious act the world had then seen ; but this act once
successful, the whole earth was in their power. The
people were ignorant; they taught them what they
pleased. They delivered all sorts of ludicrous and
pernicious dogmas as scripture ; and who could con-
tradict them ? So great became the ignorance of
IN ALL AGES. 105
even their own order, under this system, so com-
pletely became the Bible a strange book, that when,
in after ages, men began to inquire, and to expose their
delusions, a monk warned his audience to beware of
these heretics who had invented a new language,
called Greek, and had written in it a book called the
New Testament, full of the most damnable doctrines.
By every act of insinuation, intimidation, forgery,
and fraud, they not only raised themselves to the
rank of temporal princes, but lorded it over the
greatest kings with insolent impunity. The BANN,
which we have seen employed by the priests of
Odin in the north, they adopted, and made its terrors
felt throughout the whole Christian world. Was a
king refractory-did he refuse the pontifical demand
of money-had he an opinion of his own-a repug-
nance to comply with papal influence in his affairs?-
the thunders of the Vatican were launched against
him ; his kingdom was laid under the bann ; all
people were forbidden, on pain ofeternal damnation,
to trade with his subjects ; all churches were shut;
the nation was of a sudden deprived of all exterior ex-
ercise of its religion; the altars were despoiled oftheir
ornaments; the crosses, the reliques, the images,the
statues of the saints were laid on the ground ; and,
as if the air itself were profaned, and might pollute
them by its contact, the priests carefully covered
them up, even from their own approach and venera-
tion. The use of bells entirely ceased in all churches;
the bells themselves were removed from the steeples,
and laid on the ground with the other sacred utensils.
1\-Iass was celebrated with shut doors, and none but
the priests were admitted to the holy institution.
The clergy refused to marry, baptise, or bury; the
dead were obliged to be cast into ditches, or lay pu-
trefying on the ground; till the superstitious people,
106 PRlESl'CRAFT
looking on ·their children who died without baptism
as gone to perdition, and those dead without burial
amid the ceremonies of the church and in consecrated
ground as seized on by the devil, rose in rebellious
fury and obliged the }Jrince to submit and humble
himself before the proud priest of Rome.
Realms quake by turns: proud arbitress of grace,
The church, by mandate shadowing forth the power
She arrogates o'er heaven's eternal door,
Closes the gates of every sacred place.
Straight from the sun and tainted air's embrace
All sacred things are covered; cheerful mom
Grows sad as night-no seemly garb is worn,
Nor is a face allo.wed to meet a face
With natural smile o{ greeting. Bells are dumb ;
Ditches are graves-funereal rites denied;
And in the church-yard he must take his bride
Who dares be wedded! Fancies thickly come
Into the pensive heart ill fortified,
And comfortless despairs the soul benumb.
WOllDSWORTB.
But not merely kings !Uld kingdoms were thus
circumstanced, every individual, every parish was
liable to be thus excommunicated by the neighbour-
ing priest. The man who offended one of these
powerful churchmen, however respected and influen-
tial in his own neighbourhood over night, might the
next morning behold the hearse drawn up to his
hall door,-a significant emblem that he was dead to
all civil and religious rights, and that if he valued his
life, now at the mercy of any vile assassin, he must
fly, and leave his family and his property to the same
tender regards which had thus outlaw~ himself.
The invention of monkery was a capital piece of
prie11tly ingenuity. By this means the whole world
became inundated with monks and friars,
Black, white, aod grey, wi\h all their trumpery.
IN ALL AGES. 107
A standing army of vigilant forces was set up in
every kingdom : into every town and village they
entered ; in every house they became familiar spies,
ready to communicate the earliest symptoms of in-
aubordination to the papal tyranny, ready at a signal
to carry terror into every region, and rivet faster the
chains of Rome. Like the frogs of Egypt, they
came up and covered the earth; they crept into every
dwelling; into the very beds and kneading tubs,
sparing not those of the king himself-till the land
stank with them.
That they might have something to occupy the
imagination of the people equivalent to the numerous
idols, gorgeous temples, imposing ceremonies, and
licentious festivals of the heathen ; not only had they
paintings of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, but
images of Christ, of his mother, and of a thousand
saints, who were exalted to be objects of a veneration
little to be distinguished from worahip in the minds of
the deluded people. To these they prayed ; to these
they made offerings. Splendid churches were built,
and adorned with every fascination of statuary and
painti.pg ; and carnivals, religious festivals, and pro-
ce~tsiol18 ordained without number, in which all the
lewdness and license of the pagan worship were
revived. In~ttead of the charms which the pagans
gave as a protection against evil, they gave relics-
bits of wood, hair, old teeth, and a thousand other
pieces of rubbish, which were pretended to be parts,
or to have been the property of, the saints, and were
endued with miraculous powers. Thus were men
made fast prisoners by ignorance, by the excitement
of their imaginations, and by obj(!cts on which to
indulge their credulity. But other engines equally
potent were set to work. Every principle of terror,
love, or shame in the human mind was appealed to.
Oral confession was invented. Every person was to
"'Coogle
108 PRIESTCRAPT
confess his sins to the priest. Thus the priest was
put into possession of everything which could en-
slave a man to him. Who was so pure in life and
thought that, after having unbosomed himself to his
confessor-made him the depository of his most
secret thoughts, his weakest or worst actions, dare
any more to oppose or offend him? But the chains
of shame and fear were not all ; those of hope were
added. The priest had not only power to hear sins,
but to pardon them. He could shut up in hell, or
let out ; he was not content with enslaving his fol-
lower in this world-he carried on his influence to
the next, and even invented a world, from the tor-
tures of which no man could escape without his
permission.
How all this could be built on the foundation of
Christianity might be wondered at; but it should
never be forgotten that the Bible was locked up,
and everything was directed to the acquisition of
power and gain. Everything was a source of gain.
Besides the direct tribute to the popedom, every shrine
had its offerings; every confession, every.prayer had
its price. Escape from purgatory and indulgence in
sin were regulated by a certain scale of payment. The
rich, the foolish, and the penitent were wheedled out
of~eir property to maintain the endless train of pope,
cardinals, priests, monks, nuns, confessors, and their
subordinates. By them abbeys, cathedrals, and
churches were endowed with ample lands; and every
one who incurred the censure of the church, added
also by fines to its funds. For a thousand years this
system was triumphant throughout Europe ;
Thou heaven of earth! what spells could pall thee thea,
In ominous eclipee ! A thousand years
Bred from the alime of deep oppreuion'a den,
Dyed all thy liquid light with blood and teara.
Over a great part of it, it reigns still.
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 109
Millions of monks and secular priests, all for-
bidden to marry ; all pampered in luxurious ease
and abundance to voluptuousness, were let loose on
the female world as counsellors and confessors, with
secresy in one hand, and amplest power of absolution
from sin in the other ; and the effect on domestic
purity may be readily imagined. So, smoothly ran
the course of popery for many a century : but when,
spite of all its efforts to the contrary, the human
mind again began to stir ; when knowledge again
revived ; and the secrets of the church were curiously
pried into; then this terrible hierarchy, calling itself
Christian, let loose its vengeance. Fire and fagot,
chains and dungeons, exterminating wars, and in-
quisitions, those hells on earth, into which any man
might, at a moment's notice, be dragged from his
family, his fireside, or his bed, at the instigation of
malice, envy, cupidity, or holy suspicion, to tortures
and death. These were the tender mercies of the
papal priestcraft in the hour of its fear.
This is a brief sketch of what the popish church
was : we will now go on to give evidence of its
spirit and proceedings from the best authenticated
histories.
1. Of the means employed to obtain power.
2. Of the uses of that power.
3. Of the arrogance of the popish priesthood in
power.
4. Of their atrocities.
The evidence I shall select must necessarily be a
very small portion from the immense mass of the
deeds of this church ; for its history is such a con- ·
tinued tissue of ambition, cupidity, and vice in its
most hateful shapes,-dissensions, frauds, and blood-
shed, that nothing but the desire to draw from it a
great moral and political lesson, could induce me to
wade through it,
"" ,,Coogle
110.. PRIESTORAPT
CHAPTER XI.
POPERY CONTll!fUED.
They willeth to be king's peres,
And higher than the emperour;
And some that weren but pore freres
Now woollen waxe a wamour.-CHAUCBa.
But, Lorde, we lewed men knowen no God but thee, aad
we, with thyne help and thy grace, forsaken Nabugodonosor and
hys Iawes. For he, in his prowd estate, wole have all men onder
llym, and he nele be onder no man. ·He ondoeth thy Iawes that
thou ordenest to be kept, and maketh hys awne Iawes as bym
lyketh, and so he maketb hym kynge aboven all other kynges
of the erth; and maketh men to worschupen bym as a God,
and thye gret sacryfice he hath ydone away.
Tez PLoWEMAN'a P:a.uza.
THE earliest means which the bishops of Rome
employed to acquire power was, to assert their
supremacy over all other bishops of the Christian
church. This was not granted at once, but led to
many quarrels with their cotemporaries. The bishop
of Constantinople, in particular, contended with them
for the superiority; the emperor Constantine ha'ring
shifted there the seat of civil government. These
odious squabbles I must necessarily pass over, and
confine myself entirely to -the Romish church, as
being more intimately connected with our object. I
may state, once for all, that the patriarchs of Con·
stantinople maintained the contest with Rome through
IN ALL AGES, Ill
every age to the very time of the Reformation ; and
many disgraceful expositions of priestly wrath were
made on both sides. Of the Greek church, it will be
sufficient to say, that its prelates partook largely in
the arts and vices of priest!! in general, and plunged
that church into an abundance of ceremonious pueril-
ities, in which it remains to this day.
The attempts of the Romish pontiffil to grasp at
power were not crowned with instant success, either
over their fellow priests or cotemporary princes. It
was a work of time, of continual stratagem, and the
boldest acts of assumption. The full claims of papal
dominion over the Christian world in Europe were
not admitted, indeed, till the 11th century.
In the 4th century, Mosheim says, in the episcopal
order the bishop of Rome was the first in rank ; and
was distinguished by a sort of pre-eminence over all
other bishops. Prejudices, arising from a variety of
causes, contributed to establish this superiority; but
it was chiefly owing to certain circumstances of
grandeur and opulence, by which mortals, for the
most part, form their ideas of pre-eminence and
dignity, and which they generally confound with the
reasons of a just and legal authority. The bishop
of Rome surpassed all his brethren in the magnifi-
cence and splendour of the church over which he
presided ; in the riches of his revenues and posses-
sions ; in the number and variety of his ministers ;
in his credit with the people ; and in his sumptuous
and splendid manner of living. These dazzling
marks of human power ; these ambiguous proofs of
true greatness and felicity, had such an influence on
the minds of the multitude, that the see of Rome
became, in this century, a most seducing object of
sacerdotal ambition. Hence it happened, that when
a new pontiff was to be elected by the suffrages of the
"" ,,Coogle
112 PB.IESTCB.AFT
presbyters and ·the people, the city of Rome was
generally agitated with dissensions, tumults, and
cabals, whose consequences were often deplorable and
fatal. One of these, in 366, gave rise to a civil war,
which was carried on within the city of Rome with
the utmost barbarity and fury, and produced the most
cruel massacres and depopulations.
The picture of the church which Milton makes
Michael for~shew to Adam was speedily realized.
The Spirit
Poured first on his apostles, whom he send.!
To evangelize the nations, then on all
Baptized, shall them with wond'rous gifts endue
To speak all tongues, and do all miracles,
As did their Lord before them. Thus they win
Great numbers of each nation, to receive
With jo)' the tidings brought from Heaven: at length,
Their mmistry performed, and race well run,
Their doctrine, and their story written left,
They die; but in their room, as they forewarn,
Wolves shall succeed for teachers, grievous wolves,
Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven
To their own vile advantages shall turn
Of lucre and ambition : and the truth
With superstitions and traditions taint,
Left only in those written records pure,
Though not but by the Spirit underatood.
Then shall they seek. to avail themselvea of names,
Places and titles, and with these to join
Secular power; though feigning still to act
By spiritual; to themselves appropriating
The Spirit of God, promised altk.e and given
To all believers ; and, from that pretence
Spiritual laws by carnal power sliall force
On ev'ry con&eience; laws which none shall find
Left them enrolled, or what the gpirit within
Shall on the heart engrave. What will they thea
But force the Spirit of Grace itself, and bind
His consort Liberty 1 What but unbuild
His living temple, built by l!'aith to stand,
Their own fditb, not another's1 For, on earth,
Who apinst faith and conscience can he beanl
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
Infallible! Yet many will presume:
Whence heavy persecution shall arise
On all, who in the worship persevere
orsr:·rit and truth ; the rest, far greater part,
Wil deem, in outward rites and apecioua forms,
Religion satisfied : truth shall retire
Bestuck with slanderous darts, and works of faith
Rarely be found : so shall the world go on,
To good malignant, to bad men benign :
Under her own weight groaning: till the day
Appear of respiration to the just,
And vengeance to the wicked.
113
In this century many of those steps were laid by
which the bishops of Rome afterwards mounted to
the summit of ecclesiastical power and despotism.
These steps were laid, partly by the imprudence of
the emperors, partly by the dexterity of the Roman
prelates. In the fifth century the declining power of
the emperor~ left the pontiff at liberty to exercise
authority almost without control ; and the irruptions
of the barbarians contributed to strengthen this
authority ; for, perceiving the subserviency of the
multitude to the bishop, they resolved to secure his
interest and influence by loading him with benefits
and honours.
This was the second mode by which they acquired
power,-flattering the surrounding kings; serving
them occasionally, without regard to honour or prin-
ciple, or, as they grew stronger, subduing them by
menaces to their will. In the seventh century the
Roman pontiffs used all sorts of methods to maintain
and enlarge the authority and pre-eminence they had
acquired by a grant from the most odious tyrant that
ever disgraced the annals of history. Boniface III.
engaged Phocas, that abominable despot, who waded
to the imperial throne through the blood of the
Emperor Mauritius, to take from the Patriarch of
Constantmople the title of JEcumenical, or Universal
, . ,,Coogle
114 PII.IESTCII.AI'T.·
Bishop, and confer it upon him. In the next century
a still more glaring stretch of assumed priestly power
was exhibited. We observe, says Mosheim, in the
French annals, the following remarkable and shocking
instance of the enormous power that was, at this time,
invested in the Roman pontiff. Pepin was mayor
of the palace to Childeric III. ; and, in exercise of
that high office, was possessed, in reality, of the
royal powe:r; but, not content with this, he formed
the design of dethroning his sovereign. He therefore
sent ambassadors to Rome to inquire, whether the
dit~ine law did not permit a t~aliant and warlike people 16
dethrone a pusillanimous and indolent mooarch, who Wa&
incapable ofperforming any of the function& of royalty,
and ro substitute in his place one more worthy ro nUe?
Zachary had need of the aid of Pepin ; and his
answer was all that could be wished. When this
decision of the pope was published in France, Pepin
stripped poor Childeric of his royalty ; and stepped
immediately into his throne. This decision was
solemnly confirmed by his successor, Stephen II.,
who went to France ; and being under the necessity
of soliciting Pepin's aid against the Lombard.s,
dissolved the act ofallegiance and fidelity the usurper
had sworn to Childeric ; and, to render his title as
firm as possible, anointed and crowned him, his wife,
and two sons.
This compliance of the Roman pontiffs' proved an
abundant source of opulence and credit to them.
Pepin marched into Italy, subdued all the pope's
enemies, and put him in possession of the Grecian
provinces in Italy. The Exarch of Ravenna, when
Pepin retired, threw offthe yoke, and besieged Rome;
but Pepin returned, and compelled him again to
deliver up the exarchate of Ravenna and Pentapolis
to the pontiff; and thus raised the Bishop of Rome
Coogle
IK ALL AGES. 115
to the rank of a temporal prince. Mter Pepin's
death a new attack was made upon the papal terri-
tory, by Dideric, king of the Lombards. The then
pope, Adrian I., fled to Charlemagne, the son of
Pepin; who, having need of the pope's sanction to
seize on the Eastern Roman. Empire, hastened to
Rome; repelled the pope's foes, and in consideration
of his sanction of his ambitious views, added fresh
territories to the papal see. Thus, by the most
shameless and unprincipled trafficking between the
pretended Vicar of Christ, and these bold bad kings,
did the popes acquire royalty and dominion, and
gave to treason and regitl. robbery the assumed sanc-
tion of heaven ! Once placed by kings on temporal
thron~s, these audacious priests soon shewed their
royal cotemporaries what companions they had ad-
mitted amongst them. Not contented with what
royal robbery had given them, they speedily assailed
their princely neighbours ; sought to hurl them from
their throne, and stirred up some of the most bloody
wars on record.
The notorious Hildebrand, a Tuscan monk, of
mean origin, having arrived at the pontificate, styled
himself Gregory VII., and displayed to the world the
full measure of the priestly spirit. He was a man,
says Mosheim, of uncommon genius, whose ambition
in forming the most arduous projects, was equalled
by his dexterity in bringing them into execution.
Sagacious, crafty, and intrepid, he suffered nothing
to escape his penetration, defeat his stratagems, or
daunt his courage. Haughty and arrogant beyond
all measure ; obstinate, impetuous, and intractable ;
he looked up to the summit of universal empire with
a wistful eye ; and laboured up the steep ascent with
uninterrupted ardour, and invincible perseverance.
Void of all principle, destitute of every virtuous
I 2
116 PBIESTCRAPT
feeling; he suffered little restraint in his audacious
pursuits from the dictates of religion, or the remon-
strances of conscience. Not content to enlarge the
jurisdiction and augment the opulence of the see of
Rome, he strove to render the universal church sub-
ject to its despotism; to dissolve the jurisdiction of
kings and princes over the various orders of the
clergy ; and exclude them from the management of
the revenues of the church. Nay, he would sub-
mit to his power the kings, emperors, and princes
themselves; and render their dominions tributary to
Rome. Such were the pious and apostolic exploits
that employed Gregory VII. during his whole life;
and which rendered his pontificate a continual scene
· of tumult and bloodshed. His conduct to France
was worthy of the country which had first given
princely power to the Roman priests, and of himself.
It was just that the realm which had put power into
such hands for such purposes as it did, should be
bitten by a fiendish ingratitude. Hildebrand de-
clared France tributary to the see of Rome ; and
ordered his legates to demand yearly, in the most
solemn manner, the payment of that tribute. Nothing
can be more insolent than the language in which the
priest addressed himself to Philip of France, recom-
mending an humble and obliging carriage, from this
consideration, that both his kingdom and his soul were
under the dominion of St. Peter, i. e., his fJicar, tlw
pope, who had power to bind and to loose him both 011
earth and in heafJen. Nothing escaped his all-grasp-
ing ambition. He drew up an oath for the emperor
of the Romans, from whom he demanded a profession
of subjection and obedience. He pretended Saxony
was a feudal tenure, having been a pious offering of
Charlemagne to the see of Rome. He claimed
Spain : maintained it had been the property of the
, . ,,Coogle
JN ALL AGBII. lli
apostolic see from the earliest times of the church ;
and the Spanish princes paid him tribute. He made
the like attempts on England : but found in William
the Conqueror a different subject. William granted
his Peter-pence, but refused to do homage for his
crown. He wrote circular letters to the German
princes, to Geysa, King of Hungary, and Sweno,
King of Denmark, demanding submission. The son
of Demetrius, Czar of the Russias, went to Rome, in
consequence of his letters, to obtain the kingdom
which would devolve to him on his father's death, as
a gift from St. Peter, after professing subjection and
allegiance to the prince of the Apostles,- a gift
readily granted by the officious pope, who was ex-
tremely liberal of what did not belong to him. De-
metrius Suinimer, Duke of Croatia and Dalmatia,
was raised to royalty by him in the year 1076; and
solemnly proclaimed King at Salona, on condition
that he should pay annually two hundred pieces of
gold to St. Peter, at the Easter festival. Boleslaus
II., King of Poland, having killed Stanislaus, Bishop
of Cracow, Gregory not only excommunicated him,
but hurled him from hia throne ; dissolved the oath
of allegiance which his subjects had taken ; and
forbid, by an express, imperious edict, the nobles
and clergy of Poland from electing a new ·king
without his leave.
In Italy his success was transcendant. Matilda,
the daughter of Boniface Duke of Tuscany, the most
powerful and opulent princess of that country, found
that neither ambition nor years had extinguished the
tender passion in the heart of Gregory,-and as a
testimony of the familiarity which existed between
them, settled all her possessions in Italy and else-
where upon the church of Rome ; an act, however,
strongly resisted by her successor, and the cause of
many struggles and much bloodshed.
,,Coogle
118 PJUEITCB.AFT
To complete his despotic power over every Chris-
tian prince, this odious priest claimed the sole right
ofinstalling bishops in their office. It had been the
custom of every prince to appoint the bishops of his
own land. At the death of any one of these, the ring
and crosier, the insignia ofhis office, were sent to the
monarch, and were by him delivered to the one he
appointed. This right Gregory claimed as the sole
prerogative of the pope ; thus designing to make the
whole church dependent on him, and entirely sub-
servient to all the papal views-powerful instruments
in the pontificalhands against both prince and people,
the world over. The resistance this claim met with,
led to terrible wars ; and we shall have occasion to
mention that with the Emperor of Germany, and his
humiliation before the haughty priest, under the head
of priestly arrogance.
Thus did this race of most shameless and audacious
men, while they called themselves the pastors of the
flock of the meek and tender Christ, daringly and
recklessly advance to a pitch of the most amazing,
enduring, and universal despotism over the loftiest
and most powerful monarchs. But to display effect-
ively the full character of the Roman pont.iJFs, we
muat write volumes on their deeds in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries, which w~re filled with their
arrogant demands from, and assumptions over, the
sovereign powers of Europe; for, at once, Conrad
Duke of Suabia, and Frederick of Auatria, were
actually beheaded at Naples by order of Clement IV.;
and another emperor, Henry IV., is supposed to have
been poisoned by a wafer, in taking the sacnunent
from a Dominican monk. Theirexcommunications,-
their wars,-their vindictive quarrels with kings, and
' with each other,-these things ewell the numerous
volumes of ecclesiastical history. Nothing, indeed,
, Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 119
is so revolting in all the annals of the world as the
malignant bitterness of these vicars of Christ against
each other upon different occasions. Their unbridled
ambition led more than once to the election of two
popes at the same time, and to the consequent tear-
ing asunder of all Europe with their petty factions.
The example of the pontiffs was not lost on the
bishops, abbots, and inferior clergy. These, even in
the time of Charlemagne, had actually obtained for
their tenants and their possessions an immunity from
the jurisdiction of the counts and other magistrates ;
as also from taxes and imposts of all kinds. But
in this century they carried their pretensions still
further,-aimed at the civil government of the cities
and territories in which they exercised a spiritual
dominion ; and even aspired to the honours and
authority of dukes, marquises, and counts of the
empire. The nobles were for ever resisting, in their
respective domains, the assumptions of the clergy in
matters of jurisdiction and other affairs. These,
therefore, seized the opportunity which was offered
them by the superstition of the times, to obtain from
the kings these, the ancient rights of the nobles ; and,
as the influence of the bishops over the people was
greater than that of the nobility, the kings, to secure
the services of so powerful a priesthood, generally
granted their requests. Thus they becamebishops and
abbots clothed with titles and dignities so foreign to
their spiritual office,-reverend dukes, marquises,
counts, and viscounts !
It was not however by these means only that they
sought dominion over the world. They had a thou-
sand arts to rivet their power into the souls of the
people. CouNCILS were one of them. As if the
sacerdotal name and inculcations were not influential
enough, they sought, by collecting together all the
120 PIUESTCRAFT
dignities of the church into one place, to invest them
with a more awful character ; and to render the enact-
ments of these priestly congresses everlasting and
indissoluble laws. These enactments were such as-
the worship of images, decreed in the council ofNice
787 ; the holding of a festival to the virgin mother,
institutedby the council of Mentz in the 9th century;
taking the cup of the sacrament from the laity; and
a declaration of the lawfulness of breaking the most
solemn engagements made to heretics, by the council
ofConstance in the fifteenth century, with a thousand
other despotic or absurd decrees against all sects,
and all freedom of opinion ; and for the institution
of exclusive rites and festivals.
IN ALL AGES.
CHAPTER XII.
POPERY CONTINUED.
( ChtutiJy lpe4la).
I blame the Emperour Constantine,
That I am put to sic ruine,
And baniest from the kirk :
For since be maid the Paip an king,
In Rome, I could get na lodging:
But headlong in tbe dark.
But ladie Senaualitie,
Since then, bas guidit this cuntrie,
And monie of the rest:
121
And now scbo reulia all tbia land
And has decreed, at her command,
Tbat I should be supprest.
Sra D.&vxn LvNnuv's S.&rYRB OF THB THa:&B EBTAtrrs.
TuE establishment of monkery was another means
of building up a perfect despotism by the papists.
These orders orginated in the third century, and,
multiplying through successive ages, became, not
only various in name, but countless in number ;
spreading in swarms throughout every part of Chris-
tendom ; propagating superstition, lewdness, and
ignorance ; acting as spies and supporters of the
papal dominion; fixing themselves in ·every fertile
and plea11ant spot; awing, or wheedling the rich and
foolish out of their lands and possessions ; and, at
length, bursting out into the most bitter quarrels
amongst themselves, became like so many rabid dogs
before the public eye ; and hastened, in no small
degree, the downfall of the church which had set
122 PRIESTCilAFT
them up for its own support. They, as well as the
secular clergy, were forbidden to marry; and hence
flowed·a torrent of corruption throughout the world.
In the third century they formed, says Mosheim,
connexions with those women who had made vows
of chastity ; and it was an ordinary thing for an eccle-
siastic to admit one of these fair saints to his bed,
but still under the most solemn declarations that
nothing passed contrary to the rules of chastity and
virtue! These holy concubines were called Mulieres
Subintroducta!.
Yet more,-round many a Convent's blazing fire
Unhallowed threads of revelry are apun ;
There Venus sits disguised like a Nun,-
While Bacchus, clothed in semblance of a Friar,
Pours out his choicest beverage high and higher
Sparkling, until it cannot choose but run
Over the bowl, whose silver lip hath won
An instant kiss of masterful desire-
To stay the precious waste : throuJP1 every brain
The domination of the sprightly jUice
Spreads high conceits, to madding Fancy dear,
Till the arched roof, with resolute abuse
Of its grave echoes, swells a choral strain,
Whose votive burden is--" Ooa KINODOII'B BBRB !"
WORDSWORTH.
These fellows too, especially the Mendicants, wan-
dering over Europe, were the most active venders of
relics, and propagators of every superstitious notion
and rite. Their licentiousness, so early as the fifth
century, was become proverbial; and they are said to
have excited thus early, in various places, the most
dreadful tumults and seditions. In the next century
they multiplied so prodigiouslyin the east, that whole
armies might have been raised of them without any
sensible diminution of their numbers. In the weatem
provinces also they were held in the highest venera-
tion, a11d both monks and nuns swarmed. In Great
IN ALL AGES. 123
Britain, an abbot, Cougal, persuaded an innumerable
number of persons to abandon the affairs, duties, and
obligations of life, and to shut themselves up in idle-
ness, or to wander about in holy mischief. . In the
seventh century, the contagion spread still more
enormously. Heads of families, striving to surpass
each other's zeal for the advancement of monkery,
shut up their children in convents, and devoted them
to a solitary life as the highest felicity. Abandoned
profligates, terrified by their guilty consciences, were
comforted with the de1usive hopes of pardon, by
leaving their fortune to mon~tic societies. Multi-
tudes deprived their children ·of their rich lands and
patrimonies, to confer them on the monks, whose
praye~s were to render the Deity propitious. In the
following ce~tury .the mania had reached such a
height, that emperors and kings conferred whole pro-
vinces, cities, and titles of honour on these creatures.
In the succeeding ages, so much did their licentious-
ness and ignorance increase, that in the tenth century
few ofthe monks knew the rules of their OWII orders
which they had sworn to obey, but lived in the most
luxurious and prodigal magnificence with their concu-
bines. The fourteenth century was distracted with
the contentions of the various orders of the monks,
who had grown so full of wealth, luxury, pride and
all evil passions, that they not only turned their
wrath against each other, but against the popes
themselves. Their bitter and presumptuous bicker-
ings filled this century with the most strange and
hateful scenes.
We must pass over an infinite quantity of the
monkieh history, and content ourselves with a few
remarks of Mosheim, on their state in the sixteenth
century, at the time when their crimes and excesses
were bringing on them the Reformation. The pro-
124 PILIESTCRAPT
digious swarms of monks, says this historian, that
overran Europe, were justly considered as burdens to
society; and, nevertheless, such was the genius of
the age, an age that was just emerging from the
thickest gloom of ignorance, and was suspended, as it
were, in a dubious situation between darkness and
light, that these monastic drones would have remained
undisturbed, had they taken the least pains to pre-
serve any remains even of the external air of decency
and religion, which distinguished them in former
times. But the Benedictine, and other monkish
fraternities, who were invested with the privilege of
possessing certain lands and revenues, broke through
all restraint, and made the worst possible use of their
opulence; and, forgetful of the gravity of their cha-
racter, and of the laws oftheir order, rushed headlong
into the shameless practice of vice, in all its various
kinds and degrees. On the other hand, the Men-
dicant orders, and especially the Dominicans and
Franciscans, lost their credit in a different way: for
their rustic impudence, their ridiculous supeTStitions,
their ignorance, cruelty, and brutish manners, tended
to alienate from them the minds of the people. They
bad the most barbarous aversion to the arts and
sciences, and expressed a like abhorrence of certain
learned men, who being eagerly desirous ofenlighten-
ing the age, attacked their barbarism in both their
discourse and their writings ;-this was the case with
Reuchlerius, Erasmus, and others.
The Dominicans possessed the greatest power and
credit of all monks ;-they presided in chureh and
state ; were confessors to the great, and judges ofthe
horrible Inquisition-circumstances which put moat
of the European princes under their control; but, not
content with these means of influence, they retOrted
to the moat infamous frauds, to enslave the ignorance
l.N ALL AGBS. 125
of the age. One of the most singular instances of
this sort, is that recorded by Reuchat, in his Histoire
de la Reformation en Suisse; by Hottinger, and by
Bishop Burnett, in his Travels on the Continent. So
remarkable is it, that I must give it as compendi-
ously as I can.
" The stratagem was in consequence of a rivalry
between the Dominicans and Franciscans, and more
especially of their controversy concerning the im-
maculate conception of the Virgin Mary. The latter
maintained that she was born without the blemish of
original sin: the former asserted the contrary. The
doctrine of the Franciscans, in an age of superstition,
could not but be popular; and hence the Dominicans
lost ground daily. To obviate this they resolved, at
a Chapter held at Vimpsen in 1504, to have recourse
to fictitious visions, in which the people at that time
had an easy faith; and they determined to make
Bern the scene of their operations. A lay-brother of
the name of Jetzer, an extremely simple fellow, was
fixed on as the instrument of these delusions. One
of the four Dominicans who had undertaken the man-
agement of this plot, conveyed him:;elf secretly into
Jetzer's cell, and about midnight appeared to him 'in
a horrid figure, surrounded with howling dogs, and
seeming to blow fire from his nostrils by means of a
box of combustibles which he held near his mouth.
He approached Jetzer's bed, and told him he was the
ghost of a Dominican who had been killed at Paris,
as a judgment of heaven for laying aside his monastic
habit; that he was condemned to purgatory for this
crime, and could only be rescued from his horrible
torments by his means. This story, accompanied
with horrid cries and howlings, frightened poor Jetzer
out of what little wits he had, and engaged him to do
all in his power to rescue the Dominican from his
126 PIUBSTCB.A.FT
torment. The impostor then told him that nothing
but the discipline of the whip applied for eight days
by the whole monastery, and 1etzer's lying prostrate
on the chapel floor in the form of a cross during
mass, could effect this. He added, these mortifica-
tions would secure 1etzer the peculiar favour of the
Blessed Virgin ; and told him he would appear to
him again, with two other spirits.
Morning was no sooner come, than 1etzer related
these particulars to the whole convent; who enjoined
him to undergo all that be was commanded, and
promised to bear their part. · The deluded simpleton
obeyed, and was admired as a saint by the multitude
who crowded about the convent; while the four friars
who managed the imposture, magnified, in the most
pompous manner, the miracle of this apparition in
their sermons and conversations. Night after night
the apparition was renewed, with the addition of two
other impostors, dressed like devils; and 1etzer's
faith was augmented, by hearing from the spectre all
the secret of his own life and thoughts, which the
impostors had got from his confessor. In this and
subsequent scenes, whose enormities we must pass
over, the impostor talked much to 1etzer of the
Dominican order; which, he said, was peculiarly dear
to the Blessed Virgin; that the Blessed Virgin knew
herselfto be born in original sin; that the doctors who
taught the contrary, were in purgatory; that she
abhorred the Franciscans for making her equal to her
Son ; and that the town of Bern would be destroyed
for harbouring such plagues within it.
In one of these apparitions, 1etzer, silly as be was.
discovered the similarity of the spectre's voice to that
of the prior-who it actually was-yet he did not
suspect the fraud. The prior appeared in various
disguises ; sometimes as St. Barbaro, sometimes as
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 127
St. Bernard, and, at length, as the Virgin herself,
clothed in the habit which adorned her statue at fes-
tivals. The little images that on these days are set
on the altar, were used for angels, which being tied to
a cord which passed through a pully over Jetzer's
head, rose up and down, and danced about the pre-
tended virgin, to increase the delusion. The virgin
addressed a long discourse to Jetzer; gave him a
marvellous wafer,-a host which turned, in a moment,
from white to red; and, after various visits, in which
the greatest enormities were acted, the virgin-prior
told Jetzer she would give him the most undoubted
proof of her Son's love, by imprinting on him the five
wounds that pierced Jesus on the cross, as she had
done before to St. Lucia and St. Catherine. Ac-
cordingly she took his hand, and thrust a large nail
through it, which threw the poor dupe into the
greatest torment. The next night, this masculine
virgin brought, as she pretended, some of the linen
in which Christ had been buried, to soften the wound;
and gave Jetzer a soporific draught, composed of the
blood of an unbaptized child, some incense, con-
secrated salt, quicksilver, the hairs of a child's
eye-brows, with some poisonous and stupifying
ingredients, mingled by the prior with magic cere-
monies, and a solemn dedication of himself to the
devil, in hope of his aid. This draught threw the
poor wretch into a lethargy, during which the other
four wounds were imprinted on his body. When he
awoke and discovered them, he fell into unspeakable
joy, and believed himself a representation of Christ
in the various parts of his passion. He was, in this
state, exposed to the admiring multitude on the
principal altar of the convent, to the great mortifica-
tion of the Franciscans. The Dominicans gave him
some other draughts, and threw him into convulsions,
128 PRIESTCB.APT
which were followed by a voice conveyed through a
pipe into the mouths of two images, one of Mary, the
other of the child 1esus ; the former of which had
tears painted upon its cheeks in a lively manner.
The little Jesus asked his mothei why she wept ; she
answered, for the impious manner in which the Fran-
ciscans attributed to her the honour that was due to
him.
The apparitions, false prodigies, and abominable
stratagems were repeated every night : and were, at
length, so grossly overacted, that even the simple
1etzer saw through th(lm, and almost killed the priest.
Lest this discovery should spoil all, they thought it
best to own the whole to Jetzer, and prevail on him
to join in the imposture ; engaging him, by the most
seducing promises of opulence and glory, to carry on
the delusion. Jetzer appeared to be persuaded, but
lest he should not be faithful and secret, they at·
tempted to poison him ; and it was alone owing to
the vigour of his constitution that they did not suc-
ceed. Once they gave him a rich spiced loaf, which,
growing green in a day or two, he threw a piece to a
wolf's whelps, kept in the monastery, and it killed
them immediately. Again they poisoned the host,
or consecrated wafer ; but he vomited it up. In
short, the most detestable means to destroy him and
his evidence were employed ; but he succeeded in
getting out of the convent, and throwing himself into
the hands of the magistrates. The whole thus came
to be sifted out ; commissioners were sent from Rome
to examine the affair ; and the four friars were
solemnly degraded, and burnt alive on the last day
of May, 1509. Ietzer died soon after. Had he heeD
destroyed before this expoaure, this execrable ~ot
would have been handed down to posterity as a
atupendous miracle."
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 129
Rome could hasten to punish such vile frauds when
they were made public, but she was not the less ready
to practise them herself in the most daring manner,
as I shall proceed to shew : but before leaving this
strlmge case of Jetzer it may be remarked, that auda-
cious and even incredible as it may appear to many, it
rests upon too good authority to be doubted. Hun-
dreds, indeed, of similar instances might be brought,
for the whole history of the Romish church is that of
fraud and delusion : but we need not go out of our
own country for similar transactions. Who does not
call to mind the affair of the Maid of Kent, enacted in
the reign of Henry the Eighth at the vefy moment
he was aiming a ~eath-blow at popery, and in the face
of a people whose eyes were opening to the acts and
impostures of the papal sorceress? The case may be
seen at large in Hume. The substance of it is this :
some monks, and one Masters, the vicar of Aiding-
ton, in Kent, got hold of a girl of the name of Eliza-
beth Barton, who was subject to convulsive fits, and
induced her to enter into a system of deception on the
public mind. They gave out that she was inspired,
and in these fits delivered the words of the Virgin
Mary. Having once imposed, not merely on the
common people, but engaged the Archbishop of
Canterbury and other dignitaries of the church in the
affair, they proceeded to promulgate heavenly mes-
sages against the reforming principles, and even
threatened destruction to the king if he proceeded in
them. The friars, throughout the country, counte-
nanced the delusion, and propagated it with all their
zeal and might. But they had a man to deal with
very inauspicious for their purpose. He arrested the
holy maid and her accomplices, brought them before
the Star Chamber, and soon terrified them into a full
eonfession of their imposture. A most scandalous
K
130 P&I:ISTCB.Aii'T
scene was laid open. Her principal accomplices,
Muters the vicar, and Dr. Hocking, a canon of Can-
terbury, were found to have a private entrance to her
chamber, and to have led a most licentious life with
her. The girl and six ofher coadjutorswere executed;
and the Bishop of Rochester and others were con-
demned for misprision of treason, becauae they had
not revealed her criminal speeches, and were thrown
into prison. This was in England in the sixteenth
century, ·and is a good specimen of the spirit of
monkery : but another of .a more menacing kind waa
soon given. Their " Diana of the Ephesians" waa
in danger; the king threatened not only to destroy
popery, but to root out the monasteries; and it waa
not in the nature ofpriests and monks to reaign their
ill-gotten booty without a struggle. They set up
the standard of rebellion. A monk, the Prior of
Barling& in Lincolnshire, was at the head of it. He
marched with 20,000 men at hia heels, till he fell
into the king's hands. But another army from the
north was not so easily scattered. This, which con-
sisted of 40,000 men, called its enterprise the Pil-
grimage of Grace. Some priests marched before in
the habits of their order, carrying crosses in their
hands ; in their banners was woven a crucifix,
with the representation of the chalice, and the five
wounds of Christ. They wore on their sleeve an
emblem of the five wounds, with the name of Jesua
wrought in the middle : and all took an oath that
they had no motive but lot~e to Goa, care ofthe ki-Ag'•
pertwn and issue ; and a desire to purify the 110~,
drive base·born persons from about the king, and
restore the church, and suppress heresy. With thoee
pretensions they marched from place to place ; took
Hull, York, and other towns ; excited great dia-
turbance and clamour, and were not di1pened but
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 131
with great difficulty. This was a trial of force where
fraud could not succeed of itself, according to the
established papal policy; but FRAUD was alone one of
its most successful means of acquiring power, and
in order to contemplate this instrument more clearly
we must go back again to an earlier age.
To advance their power the popes did not shrink
from the most audacious FORGERY. Such was that
of the notorious DECRETALS of ISIDORE ; documents
purporting to be written by the early pontiffs, and
containing grants of the Holy See from Constantine ;
of the supremacy of the pope, and other privileges ;
all proved by the clearest evidence to be the most
barefaced inventions.
FRAUDS were multiplied abundantly to besot and
blind the popular spirit. Monks, bishops, warriors,
and men of the worst characters, nay of neither cha-
racter nor real existence, as St. George and his
dragon, were canonized, made into saints, and their
lives written in a manner most calculated to beguile
the ignorance of the times. Shrines were set up,
and churches dedicated to them, where people might
pray for their aid. Dreams and miracles were pre-
tended to throw light on the places of their burial ;
solemn processions were set on foot to discover and
take them up; and the most miraculous powers attri-
buted to them. Bones were buried, and afterwards
pretended to be found, and declared by heaven to
belong to saints and martyrs : and bits of bone, hairs,
fragments of filthy rags, and other vile things ; chips
of the true cross, etc., were sold at enormous prices,
aa capable of working cures and effecting blessings of
all.kinds. The milk of the Virgin, and the blood of
St. J anuarius, which liquified on the day of his festi-
val, were particularly famous in Italy. In England,
at the dissolution of the monasteries, many very
K 2
132 PBIESTCRAFT
curious ones were found. The parings of St. Ed-
mond's toes; some of the coals that roasted St. Law-
rence ; the girdle of the Virgin, shewn in eleven
several places ; the belt of St. Thomas of Lancaster,
an infallible cure for the headach ; part ofSt. Thomas
of Canterbury's ahirt; but chief of all, the blood of
Christ brought from Jerusalem, and shewn for many
ages at Hales in Gloucestershire. This sacred blood
was not visible to any one in mortal sin; but in doing
sufficient good work, i. e., paying money enough, it
revealed itself. It was preserved in a phial, one side
of which was transparent, the other opaque. Into
this the monks every week put a fresh supply of the
blood of a duck; and, on any pilgrim arriving, the dark
side was shewn him, which threw him into such con-
sternation for his sinful state, that he generally pur-
chased masses and made offerings, till his money or
fortune began to fail; when the charitable monks
turned the clear side towards him ; he beheld the
blood, and went away happy in his regenerate con-
dition.
Rumours were spread of prodigies to be seen in
certain places ; robbers were converted into martyrs;
tombs falsely given out to be those of saints; and
many monks travelled from place to place, not only
selling, with matchless impudence, their fictitious
relics, but deluding the eyes of the people with ludi-
crous combats with spirits and genii. Ambrose, in his
disputes with the Ariana, produced men possessed
with devils, who, upon the approach of the relics of
Gervasius and Protatius, were obliged to cry out that
the doctrine of the Council of Nice on the Trinity was
true, and that of the Ariana false. One of the pre-
cious maxims ofthe fourth century was, " that it was
an act of virtue to deceive and lie when it could pro-
mote the interest of the church."-a maxim never
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 133
afterwards forgotten, PILGRIMAGES to distant holy
places were hit upon as a strong means to employ
the minds and enslave the affections of numbers ;
houses, as that of the Virgin at Loretto, were even
said to descend from heaven to receive the sacred en-
thusiasm of men ; and CRUSADES, those preposterous
and tremendous wars, whose details are filled with the
most exquisite miseries, and most abhorrent crimes
and licentiousness, were promoted, as potent means of
employing the power and exhausting the treasures
of kings. In those crusades, millions of miserable
wretches, men, women, and children-the low, the
ignorant, the idle, the dissolute-after wandering from
kingdom to kingdom, the wonder and horror of the
inhabitants, were consumed; and from those crusades
in return, loads of relics were poured out of Syria
over all Europe.
All kinds of CEREMONIES and FESTIVALS were im-
ported from paganism for the same end. AuRICULAR
CoNFESSION was invented, by which the clergy be-
came the keepers ofthe consciences ofthe whole world;
and the spiritual tyrants, not merely of the weak and
the wicked, but of every one capable of a sense of
shame or of fear. INDULGENCES were granted for the
commission of crimes, and past sins pardoned for mo-
ney and gifts of lands :-and PURGATORY! that most
subtle and profitable invention of priestcraft, was
contrived, to give the church power over both living
and dead. Thus was the religion of Christ com-
pletely disfigured by pagan ceremonies, and made to
sanction all wickedness for the sake of gain. The
very CELEBRATION OF WORSHIP WaS ordered to be
in LATIN; an unknown tongue to the great mass of
those who heard it, so that they were reduced not
only to feed on the chaff and garbage of priestly
fables, but in the very temple o( God himself to fill
134 PRIESTCII.APT
themselves with mere wind and empty sounds. The
ltread was taken from the children and given to the
dogs. MAss was invented-that splendid piece of
mummery, which, filling the eyes while it enlightened
not the mind, was at once an instrument of keeping
the people in ignorance ; of fixing them fast by the
imagination to the hollow trunk of formality; and of
filling the pockets of the priests, by whom it was
never performed without a fee ;-for the souls of the
dead paid more or less according to the imagined
need. For many a great sinner masses were esta-
blished for ever ; and whole lordships were given to
the church, to support chapels and chantries for the
peace of souls that were already beyond rescue, or
need of redemption. Every prayer and paternoster
had its price. Thus was heaven, earth, and all
therein turned into a source of beastly gain. The
rage for dominion in the popes, says Mosheim, was
accompanied by a most insatiable avarice. All the
provinces of Europe were drained to enrich those
spiritual tyrants, who were perpetually gaping ai\er
new accessions of wealth.
Another mode ofinfluencewas,constitutingchurches
ASYLUMS for robbers and murderers ; another, that
darkoneofEXCO.MMUNICATION; another, the borrowing
of ORDEALS from the pagans ; another, the right of
PATRONAGE; and, lastly, the terrors of the INQUI•
SITION.
Such were the multiplied mean• employed for the
monopoly of all the wealth, power, and honour of the
universe by this infamous race of vampyres ; and we
have but too many instances of their determination to
quench and keep down knowledge in their treatment
of Bacon, Petre d'Abano, Arnold of Villa Nuova, and
Galileo ; to say nothing of the reformers, whom they
regarded aa their natural enemies, and deatroyed
nr ALL AGES. 135
without mercy. Mankind owes to the Roman church
an everlasting reward of indignation for its attempts
to crush into imbecility the human mind, and to
insult it in its weakness with the most pitiful baubles
and puerilities.
And for what end were all these outrages on huma-
nity,-these mockeries of every thing great,-theae
blasphemies of every thing holy, perpetrated? That
they might wallow, undisturbed, in the deepest mire
of vice and sensuality, and heap upon those they had
deluded and stripped of property, of liberty and of
mind, insult and derision. Let every man who hesi-
tates to set his hand to the destruction of state reli-
gions, look on this picture of all enormities that can
disgrace our nature, and reflect that such is the
inevitable tendency of all priestcraft. Is it said we
see nothing so bad now? And why? Becauee man
has got the upper hand of his tyrant, and keeps him
in awe,-not because the nature of priestcraft is
altered ; and yet, let us turn but our eyes to Catholic
countries, Spain, Portugal, Italy, and the acene is
lamentable; and even in our own country, where
free institutions check presumption, and the press
terrifies many a monster from the light of day,-we
behold things which make our hearts throb with indig-
nation.
I had intended to give some specimens of papal
luat, gluttony, and other infamous habits, but I turn
from them in disgust ; for those who seek them,
ecclesiastical history is full. I shall only devote a
few pages to Romish arrogance and atrocities, and
then dismiss this Harlot of the Beven Hills.
"" ,,Coogle
136 PRIESTCRA'PT
CHAPTER XIII.
POPISH ARROGANCE AND ATROCITIES.
Unless to Peter's Chair the viewless wind
Must come and ask permission where to blow,
What further empire would it have1-for now
A ghostly Domination, unconfined
As that by dreaming bards to love assigned,
Sits there in sober truth-to raise the low,
Perplex the wise, the strong to overthrow-
Through earth and heaven to bind and to unbind!
Resist-the thunder quails thee !-crouch-rebufF
Shall be thy recompense ! from land to land
The ancient thrones of Christendom are stuff
For occupation of a magic wand,
And 't is the Pope that wields it;-whether rough
Or smooth his front, our world is in his hand !
WORI>SWORTR.
WE have seen, in the progress of this volume, that
arrogance and atrocity are prominent and imperish-
able features in the priestly character; and it might
be imagined that instances had been given in various
ages and nations which could not be surpassed: but
if we consider the fierce and audacious exhibition of
those qualities in the Romish priests ; the greatness
and extent of the kingdoms over which they exercised
them ; and the mild and unassuming nature of the
religion they professed to be the teachers of, it must
be confessed that the world has no similar examples
to present. The papal church seemed actuated by a
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 137
perfect furor and madness of intolerance, haughty
dictation, and insolent cruelty. In the 12th cen-
tury the pope proclaimed himself LoRD OF THE UNI-
VERSE ; and that neither prince nor bishop possessed
any power but what was derived from him ; in the
14th he, on one occasion, at a great dinner, ordered
Dandolo, the Venetian ambassador, to be chained
under the table like a dog. In 1155 the pope
insisted on the celebrated emperor, Frederick Bar-
barossa, holding his stirrup, at the emperor's own
coronation ; a proposal at first rejected with disdain,
and which led to contests of a most momentous
nature. Some writers affirm that his successor, hav-
ing compelled the emperor to submit, trod upon his
neck, and obliged him to kiss his foot while the
proud prelate repeated, from Psalm xci.-" Thou
shalt tread upon the lion and the adder ; the young
lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under foot."
Our great poet receives it as fact.
Black Demons hovering o'er his mitred head,
To Cmsar's successor the pontiff spake ;
"Ere I absolve thee, stoop! that on thy neck
Levelled with earth this foot of mine may tread."
Then he who to the altar had been led,
He, whose strong arm the Orient could not check,
He who bad held the Soldan at his beck,
Stooped, of all glory disinherited,
And even the common dignity of man !
Amazement strikes the crowd.
WORDSWORTH.
In the eighth century the humiliating ceremony
of kissing the pope's toe was introduced. In 1077_
the famous pope, Gregory VII., compelled the em-
peror, Henry IV., to do penance for his resistance to
his monstrous claims. The unhappy monarch passed
the Alps in a severe winter ; waited on the pontiff at
Canusium, where, unmindful of his dignity, he stood
188 PB.IESTCRAI'T
three days at the entrauce of the fortress (within
which the detestable pope was feasting with his
mistress, the Countess Matilda), with his head and
feet bare, and no other raiment than a wretched
piece of woollen cloth. On the fourth day he waa
admitted to the pontiff, who scarcely deigned to grant
him the absolution he sought, and absolutely refuaed
to restore him to his throne till after further delay
and further indignities. The humiliation of holding
the stirrup was also forced on the emperor Louis II.;
and every readeris familiar with the arrogant spectacle
of pope Alexander riding into the French camp, with
the French monarch on the one side, and the Engliah
on the other, walking at his stirrup. We have
already seen t.he boundless assumption and insolence
of the popes in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries; how they thundered their anathemas against
kings and emperors, dethroned and beheaded as they
pleased ; made bloody wars on them to wrest from
them their power, and even set up new kingdoms.
Their clergy naturally caught the same spirit, and
carried into every region and every house the same
intolerable haughtiness. The papal legates came to
the courts of the greatest princes, with an odious
arrogance that fully represented that of their master.
From the history of the European nations, we might
select the most astonishing instances of legates.
cardinals, and bishops, before whom both monarch
and people trembled; but I shall only select one or
two from our own annals. Who can ever forget the
notorious Thomas a Becket, ArchbiBhop of Canter·
bury ? one of the most perfect personifications of
priestly insolence and audacity. This wretch, who
had been raised to his high dignity by his royal
master, and loaded with every honour, having once
gained all that hi• ambition could hope from the in·
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 139
dulgent monarch, became one of the moat captious
and troublesome villains that ever disturbed, with
priestly pride, the peace of kingdoms. Henry, by an
act of the Council of Clarendon, endeavoured to bring
into some tolerable degree of restraint, the power and
license of the clergy. Becket most arrogantly refused
all obedience to the Icing's wishes; and backed by
Alexander III., the same pope who had so humiliated
Frederick Barbarossa, commenced a course of annoy-
ance to the mild-spirited king, which, even at this
distance of time, makes one's blood boil with in-
dignation to read. The monarch, aroused by it,
compelled Becket to retire to France. Hereupon the
pope and the French king interposed; and endeavoured
ao far to pacify the offended sovereign, as to allow
Becket to return to England, and resume his office.
But who that knows any thing of priests could hope
that he would be touched with any sense ofshame, or
gratitude towards his forgiving prince? He became
only more inveterately rebellious, and carried his
insolence so far, that four gentlemen who witnessed
with indignation the vexations heaped on their so-
vereign, hastened to Canterbury, and inflicted on the
haughty and sanctimonious wretch, deserved and
exemplary death.
But if Becket was dead, the haughty pope was
alive, and soon compelled poor Henry to the most
humiliating degradations ;-to go, bare-headed and
bare-footed, on pilgrimage to Canterbury, and do
penance at the canonized shrine of the now sainted
Becket!
·A similar fate was that of poor king John,-the
weak and wicked Lack-land. He ventured to oppose
the pope's power, who had proceeded to set aside the
election of John de Grey to the see of Canterbury,
and to appoint, spite of the king and the uation,
140 PRJESTCRAl!'T
Stephen Langton, primate of England. John as-
sumed a high tone; and threatened to extinguish the
papal power in England. What was the consequence?
Innocent laid John's kingdom under the BANN. A
stop was put to divine worship; the churches were
shut in every parish; all the sacraments, except
baptism, were superseded; the dead were buried in
the high ways, without any sacred rites. Several,
however, of the better and more learned clergy,
indignantly refused obedience to this detestable inter-
dict; and the pope accordingly proceeded to further
measures. In 1209, he excommunicated John; and
two years afterwards, issued a bull, absolving all his
subjects from their allegiance, and ordering all per-
sons to avoid him. The next year, the enraged pope
assembled a council of cardinals and bishops, deposed
John, declared the throne of England vacant; and
ordered the king of France to take it, and add it to
his own. The French king was ready enough to
do this; he assembled an army;-John assembled
another to oppose him ; and had he been a monarch
of an enlightened mind and steady fortitude, England
would have been rescued from popish thraldom, and
the reformation accelerated by some ages. But
Pandolph, the pope's legate, arriving in England, so
succeeded by his artful representations of the power
of France, and the defection of John's own subjects,
that his courage broke down, and he submitted to the
most abject humiliations. He promised, among other
things, that he would subJnit himself entirely to the
judgment of the pope; that he would acknowledge
Langton for primate ; that he would restore all the
exiled clergy and laity who had been banished on
account of the contest; make them full restitution of
their goods, and compensation for all damages, and
instantly consign eight thousand pounds in part of
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 141
payment; and that any one outlawed, or imprisoned
for his adherence to the pope, should be instantly
received to grace and favour. He did homage to the
pope; resigned his crown to him; and again received
it from him as a gift; and bound himself to pay seven
hundred marks annually for England, and three
hundred for Ireland : and consented that any of his
successors who refused to pay it, should forfeit all
right to the throne. All this was transacted in a
public assembly in the house of the Templars at
Dover,-for the popish priests always took care that
refractory kings should suffer the most public and
excruciating degradations ; and the legate, after
having kept the crown and sceptre five whole days,
returned them, as by special favour of the pope.
John, however, presented a sum of money in token of
his dependence, which the proud prelate trod under
his feet.
In reviewing these things, one is ready to exclaim,
can it really be England in which such scenes have
been exhibited, and suffered by Englishmen ? Thanks
to the progress of knowledge, which has crushed the
hydra-head of such monstrous priestcraft!
The ATROCITIES of POPERY were on a par with its
arrogance. In every age it has been ready with the
fire and the fagot; and every one who dared to
dissent from its opinions, was put to death with the
cruellest brutality. We have already adverted to its
treatment of learned men, whose discoveries tended to
shake its power over the public mind. Galileo's forced
renunciation of what he knew to be the truth-the
verity of the Copernican system-has been a popular
theme in every age.
They bore
His chained limbs to a dreary tower,
In the midst of a city vast and wide.
for he, they aaid, from his mind had bent
142 PRJEITCRAFT
Against their gods keen blasphemy,
For wbicb, though his soul must roasted be
In hell's red lakes immortally,
Vet even on earth must he abide
The vengeance of their slaves ! a trial
I think men call it.
SHELLEY.
He succumbed in the trial-he recanted the truth
openly; yet as he rose from his knees before his
stupid judges, he whispered to a friend-e pur ,;
muor1e! it does move though! Yes ! it moved !-the
world moved, and that in more respects than one; and
popery is become a wreck and a scorn, and man and
knowledge have triumphed.
Fear not, that the tyrants shall rule for ever,
Or the priests of the bloody faith :
They stand on the brink ofthat mighty river,
Whose waves they have tainted with death.
It is fed from the depths of a thousand dells,
Around them it foams, and rages, and swells,
And their swords and their sceptres I floating see,
Like wrecks in the 11urge of eternity.
SHELLEY.
The reformers became tl!eir victims in most in-
stances; and if Wycliffe escaped, his remains re<.:eived
the implacable resentment of the sacerdotal spirit.
They were dug up; burnt, and scattered, on the
waters of the neighbouring river, whence they floated
to the ocean, and became the seeds of life and re-
sistance to papal despotism in myriads of minds in
all regions. A list of all the victims who have
perished by papal cruelty would amount to some
millions. Even in England, in the reign of Queen
Mary, when this horrid religion was restored for a
short space, two hundred and seventy persons were
brought to the stake, besides those who were punished
by fines, imprisonments, and confiscations. Amongst
those who suffered by fire were five bishops, twenty-
IK ALL AGBI. 143
one clergymen, eight lay gentlemen, eighty-four
tradesmen, one hundred husbandmen, aervants and
labourers, fifty-five women, and four children. This
persevering cruelty appears astonishing, yet is much
inferior to what has been practised in other countries.
A great author, Father Paul, computes that in the
Netherlands alone, from the time that the edict of
Charles V. was promulgated against the reformers,-
there had been fifty thousand persons hanged, he-
headed, buried alive, or burnt on account of religion ;
and in France a great number.
The Massacre of St. Bartholomew will remain to
the end of time in characters of infamy on the history·
of France. This horrid carnage, which was an
attempt to exterminate the protestants, commenced
at Paris on the 24th of August, 1572, by the secret
orders of Charles IX, at the instigation of the Queen
Dowager of Medici. The Queen of Navarre was
poisoned by order of the court. About daybreak, says
Thuanus, upon the toll of the great bell of the church
of St.:Germain, the butchery began. Coligni, admiral
of France, was basely murdered in his own house ;
and then thrown out of the windows, to gratify the
malice of the Duke of Guise. His head was cut
off, and sent to the king and queen-mother ; and his
body, after a thousand indignities offered to it, hung
up by the feet on a gibbet. After this the murderers
ravaged the whole city, and butchered, in three days,
10,000 lords, gentlemen, and people of all ranks.
A horrible scene, when the very streets and passages
resoWlded with the noise of those who met together
for murder and plunder ; the groans of the dying, the
shrieks of those about to be butchered, were every-
where heard. The bodies of the slain were thrown
out of the windows; the courts and chambers filled
with them : the dead bodies of others dragged along
,Coogle
144 PIUESTCR.AFT
the streets ; their bloOd running in torrents down the
channels to the river : an innumerable multitude of
men, women, and children involved in one common
destruction; and the gates of the king's palace be-
smeared with their blood.
From Paris, the massacre spread through the pro-
vinces, throughout nearly the whole kingdom. In
Meaux they threw above two hundred into gaol;
ill-treated and then killed a great number of women;
plundered the houses of the protestants, and then
exercised their fury on their prisoners ; calling them
out, one by one, and butchering them as sheep for
the market. The bodies of some were flung into the
Maine, and others into ditches. The same cruelties
were practised at Orleans, Angers, Troyes, Bourges,
La Charite, and especially Lyons, where they in-
humanly destroyed above eight hundred protestant&;
children, hanging on their parents' necks; parents
embracing their children; putting ropes round the
necks of some, dragging them through the streets,
and flinging them half dead into the river. The
soldiers and very executioners refused, says a de-
tailed account of this transaction, in the first volume
of the Harleian Miscellany, to partake in this hellish
carnage, and the butchers, and lowest populace were
admitted to the prisons, where they chopped off the
hands, feet, and noses of the captives, and derided
their agonies, as they mangled them.
When the news arrived at Rome, where the letters
of the pope's legate, read in assembly of the cardi·
nals, gave assurance that all this was done by com·
mand of the king, the joy was excessive ; and it
was instantly decreed that the pope and cardinals
should march to the church of St. Mark in solemn
procession, and return God thanks for so great a
bleaaing conferred on the see of Rome and the
Coogle
llf ALL AOBI. 145
Christian world ! That high mass should be cele-
brated, the pope and all his cardinals attending ; a
jubilee should be published throughout the Christian
world. The cannon of St. Angelo were fired, and
the city illuminated as for a most splendid victory.
But even this was exceeded by the unrestrained
vengeance of the great Roman Anti-Christ against
the poor Vaudois, a simple people of Piedmont,
who from the Apostolic age had preserved the purity
of the faith, and refused to bow to the swollen pride
and worse than pagan idolatry of Rome. These
primitive people were, from age to age, persecuted
with fire and sword ; their own prince was stirred
up and compelled to become against them, the
butcher of the Roman pontiff. They were hunted
from their houses ; suffocated in caves with flaming
straw by hundreds ; their wives and children massa-
cred without mercy :-but in vain ! They continued
through all ; and still continue, as may be seen by
Mr. Gillies' most interesting account of his visit to
them ; and their sufferings have been immortalized
in the fiery burst of Milton's indignation.
Avenge, 0 Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bone5
Lie bleaching on the A!pine mountains cold ;
Even thAm who kept thy truth so pure of old,
When all our fathers worshipped •Locks and stones,
Forget not; in thy book record their groans
Wbo were thy sheep, and in their ancient fold
Slain by the bloody Piedmontese, who rolled
Mother with infant down the rocks. Their moans
The vales redoubled to the hills, and they
To Heaven. Their martyred blood and ashes sow
O'er all the Italian fields where still doth sway
The triple tyrant; that from these may grow
A hundred fold, who having learned thy way,
Early may fly the Babylonian woe.
Milton did not content himself with thus venting
his indignation; he made such representations to
L
,,Coogle
146 PB.IESTCB.AFT
Cromwell of the situation of these suffering people
that the Protector zealously interceded for them with
the Duke of Savoy; but with too little effect.
In the same spirit the papal tyrant quenched the
literature of the Troubadours, which exerted a faint,
but pleasant twilight gleam in the 13th century; and
was highly influential in the revival of poetry, by
exciting the spirit of Petrarch, and through him of
Chaucer, and the following English poets. This
light, Rome put out by exterminating the Provencal
people in a war, so singular and expressive of the
nature of priestcraft, when full grown, that I shall
give a brief account of it, principally from Sismondi's
Literature of the South of Europe, with a few par-
ticulars from Milner's venerable History ofthe Church
of Christ.
The excessive corruption of the clergy had furnished
a subject for the satirical powers of the Troubadours.
The cupidity, the dissimulation, and the baseness of
that body, had rendered them odious both to the
nobility and the people. The priests and the monks
incessantly employed themselves in despoiling the
sick, the widowed, and the fatherless, and indeed all
whom age, or weakness, or misfortune placed within
their grasp; while they squandered in debauchery
and drunkenness, the money which they extorted by
the most shameful artifices. If God, said Raymond
de Castelnau, will the black monks to be unrivalled
in their good eating and their amours, and the white
monks in their lying bulls, and the Templars and
Hospitallersin pride, and the canons in usury, I hold
St. Peter and St. Andrew to have been egregiona
fools for suffering so much for the sake of God, since
all these people also are to be saved. The gentry
had imbibed such contempt for the clergy, that they
would not educate their children to the prieethood.
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 147
but gave their livings to their servants and baili.ffs.
The persecutions of Theodora in 845, and of Basil in
867 and 886, after having effected the destruction of
more than a hundred thousand victims, compelled the
remainder to seek refuge, some amongst the Mussel-
mans, and others amongst the Bulgarians. Once
out of the pale of persecution, their faith, of a purer
and simpler kind, made rapid progress. In Languedoc
and Lombardy the name of Paterins was given them,
on account of the sufferings to which they were
exposed wherever the papal power extended; and
they afterwards received the name of Albigenses, from
the numbers that inhabited the diocese of Alby.
Missionaries were dispatched into Higher Langue-
doc in 1147 and 1181, to convert these heretics; but
with little success. Every day the reformed opinions
gained ground, and Bertrand de Saissac, the tutor of
the young Viscount of Bcziers, himselfadopted them.
At length Innocent III. resolving to destroy these
sectaries, whom he had exterminated in Italy, sent,
in 1198, two Cistercian monks with the authority of
legates ci latere, to discover and bring them to justice.
The monks, ambitious of extending their already
unprecedented powers, not contented with merely
attacking the heretics, quarrelled with all the regular
clergy, who had attempted to soften their proceedings.
They suspended the Archbishop of Narbonne, and
the Bishop of Beziers ; and degraded the Bishops of
Toulouse and of Veviers. Pierre de Castelnau, the
most eager of the legates, accused Raymond of
Toulouse of protecting the heretics, because that
prince, being of a mild disposition, refused to lend
himself to the destruction of his subjects. The anger
of the priest, at length led him to excommunicate the
count, and place his estates under interdict : and he
proeeeded to such irritating insolence, that one of the
L2
148 P&IESTCRAFT
count's followers, in his indignation·, p'ilrsued him to
the banks of the Rhone, and killed him. This
crowned the misfortunes of Languedoc. It gave
Innocent a pretext to proceed to bloodshed, and he
took instant advantage of it. He addressed a letter
to the king of France; to all the princes and most
powerful barons, as well as to the metropolitan bishops,
exhorting them to vengeance, and to the extirpation
of heresy. All the indulgences and pardons, which
were usually granted to the crusaders, were promised
to those who exterminated these unbelievers. Three
hundred thousand pilgrims, induced by the united
motives of avarice and superstition, filled the country
of the Albigenses with carnage and confusion for a
number of years. The reader who is not versed in
history of this kind, can scarcely conceive the scenes
of baseness, perfidy, barbarity, indecency, and hypo-
crisy, over which Innocent presided; and which were
conducted partly by his legates, and partly by the
infamous Simon de Montford. Raymond VI. ter-
rified at this storm, submitted to every thing required
of him; but Raymond Roger, Viscount of Beziers,
indignantly refused to give up the cause of his
subjects. He encouraged them to resist; shut him-
self up in Carcassone, and gave Beziers to the care of
his lieutenants. Beziers was taken by assault in
July, 1209, and fifteen thousand inhabitants, accord-
to the Cistercian monk, or sixty thousand according
to others, were put to the sword. This Cistercian
monk was asked before the city was taken, how he
could separate the heretics from the catholics ! he
replied, " Kill all; God will know his own!"
The brave young Viscount of Beziers did not
shrink ; he still defended Carcassone. Peter II. of
Arragon attempted to make terms for him with his
monkish besiegers, but all that they would grant was,
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 149
to allow thirteen of the inhabitants, including the
count, to leave the city; the remainder were reserved
for a butchery like that of Beziers. The viscount
declared he would be flayed alive rather than submit
to such terms. He was, at length, betrayed ; poi-
soned in prison ; four hundred of his people burnt,
and fifty hanged. Simon de Montford, the most
ferocious monster of all the crusaders, received from
the legate, the viscount's title; and devastated the
whole of the south of France with the most frightful
wars. They who escaped from the sacking of the
town were sacrificed by the fagot. From 1209 to
1229, nothing was seen but massacres and tortures.
Religion was overthrown ; knowledge extinguished;
and humanity trodden under foot. In the midst of
these horrors, the ancient house of Toulouse became
extinct.
Connected with this melancholy history, is one of
the last horrid instruments of Papal tyranny which
remains to be mentioned-THE INQUISITION. These
monks; Arnold Ranier and Pierre Castelnau, were
followed by the notorious Spaniard, Dominic, and
others, who, proceeding to seek out and execute
heretics, gained the name of INQUISITORS. On their
return from this infernal expedition, the Popes were
so sensible of their services, that they established
similar tribunals in different places. In time, Italy,
Spain, and other countries, were cursed with these
hellish institutions ; and their history is one of the
moat awful horror that can affright the human soul.
But these, and the Jesuits, demand a separate notice.
150 J'RIESTCRAFT
CHAPTER XIV•
.JESUITS AND INQUISITORS.
The land in which I lived, by a fell bane
Was withered up. Tyrants dwelt side by side,
And stabled in our homes-until the chain
Stifled the captive's cry, and to abide
That blasting curse, men had no shame-all vied
In evil, slave and despot; fear with lust,
Strange fellowship through mutual hate had tied,
Like two dark serpents tangled in the dust,
Which on the paths of men their mingling poison thrust.
REVOLT OF lsL.&M.
But onward moved the melancholy train
In their false creeds, in fiery pangs to die.
This was the solemn sacrifice of Spain-
Heaven'11 offering from the land of chivalry !
Tas FoREST S.tNCTV.&&Y.
WE have passed rapidly through strange scenes of
prieatly wickedness and bloodshed,-but of all the
agents of the devil which were ever spawned in the
black dens of that earthly pandemonium, the Papal
Church, none can compare with the Jesuits and
IJ}quisitors.
The Jesuits arose in the latter days of popery·
Their doctrines were those of popery grown to
thorough ripeness. They seemed created to shew to
what lengths that system could be carried, and to
crown it, in conjunction with their fellow demons of
Coogle
IN ALL AG1!!8. 151
the Inquisition, with that full measure of popular
indignation which should hasten its great " immedi-
cable wound" from the hand of Luther. The Jesuits
took up the favourite dogmas of the Papal Church :
that the end sanctifies the means-that evil may be
done that good may come of it-and pushed them to
that degree which causes the good and the simple to
stand in astonishment at the daring acts and adroit
casuistry of " bold bad men." All oaths, all obli-
gations, all morality, all religion, according to their
creed, were to be adopted or set aside, just as it
suited the object they had in view. They might
cheat and lie, steal and kill, all for righteousness'
sake. They embodied in practice the pithy maxims
of Hudibras.
That saints may claim a dispensation
To swear and forswear on occasion,
I doubt not but it will appear
With pregnant light: the point is clear.
Oaths are but words, and words but wind ;
Too feeble instruments to bind.
But saints whom oaths and vows oblige,
Know little of their privilege.
For if the devil, to serve his turn,
Can tell truth ; why the saints should scorn
When it serves theirs to swear and lie,
I think there 's little reason why.
Else he has a greater power than they,
Which 't were impiety to say.
They thought with ~·
The Public Faith, which every one
Is bound to observe, is kept by none.
And if that go for nothing, why
Should Private Faith have such a tie!
Oaths were not purposed more than law,
To keep the good and just in awe,
But to confine the bad and sinful,
Like mortal cattle in a pinfold.
152 PRIESTCRAPT
Then why should we ouraelYes abridge
And curtail our own privilege 1
Quakers that, like dark lanterns bear
Their light within them, will not swear.
Their gospel is an accidence
By which tbey construe conscience.
And hold no sin so deeply red
As that of breaking Prisctan'a head-
The head and founder of their order,
That atirrin~ hats held worse than murder.
These thinlung they 're obliged to troth
In swearing, will not take an oath :
Like mules, who if they 've not their will
To keep their own pace, stand stock still.
But they are weak, and little know
Wbat freeborn consciences may do.
'T is the temptation of the devil
That makes all human actions evil.
For saints may do the same things by
The spirit in sincerity,
Which other men are tempted to,
And at the devil'a instance do.
And yet the actions be contrary,
Just as the saints and wicked vary.
For as on land there is no beast
!rut in some fish at sea's expressed,
So in the wicked there's no vice
Ofwhich the saints have not a spice:
And yet that thing that 's pious tn
The one, in 't other is a sin.
Is 't not ridiculous and nonsense
A saint should be a slave to conscience!
These were their precious tenets-the quintessence
of the wisdom of this world, to which that of the
children of light is unprofitable foolishness. Their
founder, Ignatius Loyala, a Spaniard-an ominous
name when connected with religion,-was a most acute
and happy genius in his way. He aaw the advan-
tages which the Popes had derived from their accom-
modating ecclesiastical logic, and he conceived the
·"-felicitous idea of creating a sort of second series of
Coogle
IN ALL AGBS. 153
Popes, taught and enlightened by the old series. He
adopted their facile code of morals, and he even out-
went them in the exquisite finesse of his policy.
The head of this system was to take the name of
General of the Order ; his emissaries were to go forth
into all kingdoms ; to insinuate themselves into all
cities, houses, and secret hearts of the people. They
were to adopt all shapes, to follow all circumstances ;
to wear an outside of peculiar mildness, and an inner-
man of subtle observance ; to have the exterior of
the dove-the interior of the serpent. With all this
aequacity, flexibility and disguise, they succeeded
wonderfully. What, indeed, could resist them, when
they came in all shapes, and with all pretences ;-at
the first glimpse of discoYery of their real designs,
or of popular indignation, ready to eat up theiT
· words, and swear that they were anything but
what they really were? But when they found
themselves in any degree of strength,-when they
were desirous of carrying some point that com-
pliance and duplicity could not carry,-who so
dogged and insolent as they ? They bearded people,
magistrates, kings,-the pope himself, with the most
immoveable assurance. The popes, who regarded
them as active maintainers of ignorance and obe-
dience, were desiroUs to tolerate them as much aa
possible. But they often found it a severe task for
their patience. They were in the condition of a man
who has tamed a serpent or a lion ; they might soothe
the beast by coaxing, perhaps, but were every mo..
ment in danger of rousing its ferocity, and even of
falling before its rage. When struck at, they stood
and hissed, and fought with true snaky pertinacity ;
but if they saw actual destruction coming, they
suddenly disappeared, only to raise their hydra
heads in a thousand other places. Expelled from
154 PEIESTCRAl'T
states in their own character of Jesuits, they came
back in all sorts of disguises ; and, instead of open
enemies, the people and their governors had to
encounter the secret influence of their poison, and
their stings which struck in the dark. They insi-
nuated themselves into colleges and schools under
false colours, till they could seize upon them and
convert them into engines of their designs. They
became confessors, especially of women, that they
might learn all the secrets of their husbands ; of
kings and ministers, to learn those of states : all the
intelligence thus gathered was regularly transmitted
to the General from every kingdom, so that he and his
counsellors knew the condition and intentions of all
nations; and, at a moment's notice, his creatures
were ready to seize upon universities, churches,
governments, or whatever they desired. They en-
tered into trade, and were scattered all over the
world, wearing no outward appearance but that of
merchants ; yet keeping up a secret correspondence
with one another, and with their General, and trans-
mitting intelligence and wealth from all quarters of
the globe. They were not satisfied with exercising
their arts over the Christian world ; they proceeded
into all pagan countries as missionaries, and sought
to bring the savages of Asia, Mrica, and America
under their dominion. They evidently had formed
the bold design ofacquiring the spiritual and political
aovereignty of the world: but, with all their subtlety-
their ambition and their unprincipled grasping at
power so alarmed and disgusted all people, that their
history is a continual alternation of their growing into
numbers and strength, and of their expulsion from
almost every kingdom that can be named. England,
France, Spain, Germany, Poland, Bohemia, Italy,
the East and the West Indies, America, North and
IN ALL AGES, 157
advance to these fathers whatever they might require
of me. The Jesuit Tachard alone owes that com-
pany, at this moment, above four hundred and fifty
thousand livres. Those Jesuits who, like Tachard,
pass and repass between this quarter and Europe, are
ambulatory directors and receivers of the bank and
of the trade."
"In the Antilles," says Coudrette, "Lavalette, the
lesuit, has half the worth of the property for whose
conveyance to France he undertakes. In Portugal
the Jesuits had vessels employed exclusively in their
service, which facts are established by the process of
Cardinal Saldanha. All the accounts of travellers in
the East Indies speak in the same way, with astonish-
ment, of the extent of their commerce. In Europe,
and even in France, they have banks in the most
commerCial cities, such as Marseilles, Paris, Genoa,
and Rome. In addition to this, they publicly sell
drugs in their houses; and, in order to their sanction
in this, they procured from Pope Gregory XIII. the
privilege of exercising the art of medicine. Even in
Rome, in spite of the opposition of the tradesmen,
and the prohibitions of the Pope, they carry on trade
in baking, grocery, etc. Let us imagine twenty
thousand traders, dispersed over the world, from
Japan to Brazil, from the Cape of Good Hope to the
north, all correspondents of each other, all blindly
subjected to one individual, and working for him
alone ; conducting two hundred missions, which are
so many factories ; six hundred and twelve colleges,
and four hundred and twenty-three houses of profes-
sors, noviciates, and residents, which are so many
entrep(>ts ; and then let us form an idea, if we can, of
the produce of so vast an extent."
There have not been wanting advocates for these
persevering, intriguing priests ; who have represented
158 PRIESTCRAFT
them as merely labouring to promote religion amongst
the civilized, and civilization amongst the savage
nations. But what says all history ? What says the
indignation of every realm which has ever harboured
them ? That wherever they were, whatever they
undertook, whether the education of youth in Europe~
or that of the natives of savage lands, all their plans
turned to one object-absolute dominion over the
minds and bodies of their disciples. They seem to
have taken a particular pleasure in breaking in upon
the labours and in persecuting all other missionaries;
-and by their detestable and ambitious acts, Chris-
tianity has been expelled from various regions whe:re
it was taking root. This was the case in Japan and
China. Here they first thwarted the measures of
other missionaries, then got all power into their
hands, and finally were driven out with wrath by the
natives. In China their suppression was connected
with circumstances of peculiar aggravation. The
Bishop of Nankin names two to the Pope whoae
vices had become public. " But the crime of Father
Anthony Joseph, the superior of the mission, is yet
more scandalous. This man has remained there eight
years past, continually plunged in the abominable
practice of sinning with women at the time they come
to confess, and even in the place where he confessed
them ; after which he gave them absolution, and ad-
ministered the Sacrament to them! He told them
that these actions need not give them any concern,
since all their Fathers, the Bishops, and the Pope
himself, observed the same practice !
"All this was known to Christians and to Heathens.
Some persons represented these crimes to the supe-
riors of the Jesuits ; but the commissary whom they
sent for the purpose, declared him innocent-I know
not upon what pretence. While I :was consideriDg
IN ALL AGES. 159
the best means of punishing this man, the mandarina
caused him to be arrested, suddenly, with two of hia
brethren, and about one hundred Christians. What
occasioned still greater scandal, the mandarins, who
had been some time acquainted with part of the facts,
collected correct depositions to establish his crimea,
and announced them at full length in their sentence,
which they made public. He was condemned to
death, with the other Jesuit, on the 22d of Septem-
ber, 1748, and they were both strangled in prison.
Of the hundred persons who were arrested with him,
there was not one who did not renounce Christianity,
and the Chinese missionary was the first to do so.
For more than two hundred years they maintained
a system of opposition and vexation to the bishops
and missionaries of India, in the very face of the
Pope's commands to the contrary. Of their attempt
to establish an independent kingdom in Paraguay,
every one has heard. Under pretence of preserving
the Indians free from the vices of the Europeans,
they forbade them to learn their language ; u,nder
pretence of protecting them from the oppressions of
the Europeans, they regularly disciplined large bodies
of them in arms. For them these simple creatures
toiled, and their minds they moulded entirely to sub-
serviency to them. They refused all Europeans,
except their own confederates, entrance to the pro-
vince; and actually, on the authorities marching into
it in the name of the Kings of Portugal and Spain,
rose against them and attempted to expel them by
force of arms. They hesitated not to send emissaries
over to Europe to blow the flames of sedition there,
and even attempted the life of the King of Portugal,
in order to divert the efforts of their rightful monarchs
from them; but finally they were themselves sub-
dued, and driven out of the country, to the total dia-
160 I'B.IESTCILAJ!'T
sipation of their grand scheme of rebellion and empire.
For those who have patience to read the scandalous
and bloody squabbles of priests, there are copions
details of these matters in the second volume of
Southey's History of Brazil; and especially of their
contests with Cardenas, the bishop.
In Europe they signalized themselves by perpetual
attempts against the peace of states, and the lives of
monarchs. In Venice, in 1560, they excited great
commotion, and were very near being driven away.
They shewed great anxiety to confess the wives of
the senators, for the purpose, it was believed, of
acquiring the secrets of the republic. Trevisani, the
Patriarch of Venice, says Sacchini, satisfied himself
of the charge, and made other discoveries of still
greater importance. In the Netherlands, in Portugal
and Spain, they were busy in similar schemes, and
with similar results. In Poland, they had the fortune
to get a man of their order, Sigismund, upon the
throne. He desired to introduce them into Sweden,
where his uncle, Duke Charles, was his lieutenant.
Charles remonstrated, in vain, that the people of
Sweden would not endure the Jesuits: the king per-
sisted, and the people took arms against him. He
was beaten both by sea and land; taken prisoner ;
and only released on condition that he would assemble
his states, and act in conjunction with them. He
then escaped from Sweden, and strove to arm the
Poles against the Swedes; but they refused the alli-
ance, and in the mean time his uncle seized upon his
towns.
With the continual attempts of these pertinacious
wretches against the liberties of England, and the
lives ofElizabeth and James 1., every English reader
is familiar: the names of Crichton, Garnett, Parry,
Cullen, Gerard, and Tesmond, successively engaged
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 161
in the design of assassinating the protestant queen, or
in the attempt to blow up our English Solomon and
all his parliament, will for ever perpetuate their
abhorrence in .England; and in Ireland the general
massacre of the protestants in 1641, which they were
principally concerned in exciting, and similar proceed-
ings in that country, will keep alive their remembrance
there. But of all their atrocities there are none which
more affect one with indignation, than their persecu-
tions and murder of Henry III. and Henry IV. of
France. In 1563, according to Mezerai, the famous
catholic league took its rise, whose object was to
extirpate the .protestants in France. The jesuits
became the soul of this infamous federation. Henry
III. assembled the states at Blois in 1579, for the
purpose of dissolving this conspiracy; and from that
time, was marked for destruction. Sammier, a jesuit,
traversed Germany, Italy, and Spain, to excite the
princes of those countries against him. Mattheiu,
another, styled the courier of the league, made several
journeys to the pope, to obtain a bull against him;
and though the pope hesitated at this, he delivered
his opinion, that the person of Henry should be
secured, and his cities seized. Commolet and Rouillet
were the trumpets of sedition. In the college of
the Rue St. 1aques, the jesuits met and conspired
the murder of the king. It was there Baniere came
to be stirred up by the doctrines of Varade,-and
that Guinard composed the writings, for which he was
hung. It was there that the Sixteen signed an abso-
lute cession of the kingdom to Philip of Spain; and
that Chaste! acquired the lesson of parricide he after-
wards acted upon. There Clement, animated by
such horrible instructions, formed the resolve which
he fulfilled on the 1st of August, 158!), the assassina-
tion of Henry III.
Coogle
162 PRIBBTCILAP'f
Henry IV., a generous spirited and noble monarch,
was educated in protestantism ;-this was enough to
arouse their murderous and unappeasable hatred. It
was almost by miracle that :be escaped, then a youth,
from the massacre of St. Bartholomew. On hia
coming to the throne, he was pursued by them with
such continual animosity, that to allay their fury, he
consented to embrace catholicism. This produced no
effect-he was a man of liberal opinions ; and such a
man they could not tolerate. They made his liCe
miserable ; and at length nearly effected his murder
by the knife of Baniere, at Melun, in August 1593.
On the 27th of l>ecember, 1594, his life was agaiD
attempted by Chaste!, another jestrit. He struck at
him with a knife, but missed his aim, and inatead oC
killing him, only cut his lip, and struck out a tooth.
This circumstance, and the ferment of infernal fanati-
cism, which induced the papists and jesuits to conti-
nually seek the destruction of the king, cauaed tile
banishment of the whole order. This, however, dill
not mend the matter, as it regarded the king ;-he had
only the same enemies in disguise, and, if poasible,
ten times more embittered. With that good nature
which characterized him, he at length consented to
allow them to return. It was in vain that Sully, hia
minister, represented to him that no kindness coulcl
soften such foes ;-he recalled them, and fell a victim
to their instigations, being stabbed by Ravaillac, on
May 14th, 1610.
Many books had been written oflate by the jeauita,
vindicating and commending the killing of kinga,
particularly the work of Mariana,-De Rege et Regia
Institutione, in which the killing of a king waa termed
a "laudable, glorious, and heroic action." It was by
such writings that this assassin was spurred on to hia
diabolical act. Aubigny, his confessor, ajesuit, whee
"" ,,Coogle
IJf .lLL .AGEIJ. 163
eon!ronted with the muzderer, and charged with being
privy to the design, at first denied knowing the
man at all; but when driven from that assertion, he
declared that " God had given to some the gift of
tongues, to others the gift of prophecy, and to him
the gift of forgetting confessions."
Such were the abominable principles which led
them to these abominable actions. For a full account
of this assassination, the reader may consult the
fourth volume of Sully's Memoirs. So generally was
the conspiracy known amongst the catholic subjects
of this unfortunate monarch, that many people de-
clared, on the day when the murder took place, that
the king was then dying, though they were in distant
places. An astrologer had foretold the very day and
hour to the king, the manner of the act, and that it
would take place in a coach. So much impressed
1f'88 the king with his approaching fate, that he was
frequently in great agony of mind, and would fain
have put off the queen's coronation, which was about
to take place at the time predicted. He had terrible
dreams, and so also had the queen, waking in horror,
and crying out the king was stabbed. All these
things which the common mind loves to believe
supernatural intimations, only shew to the more
refiecting one, the audacity of these bloody wretches,
who were so confident in their power of doing evil,
that they spoke of it till it became a universal im-
pression.
From the terrible Jesuit there is but one step
further in horror, and that is to the Inquisitor! And,
in fact, it can scarcely be called a step at all, for both
characters are frequently combined in the same indi-
vidual. Jesuits, it will be seen in all the histories of
the inquisition, are as active as the Dominicans
themselves, who claim the peculiar honour, or more
w2
164 PRIESTCRAFT
properly infamy, of possessing, from the head of their
order, the office ofinquisitors; that is, fiends incarnate.
In speaking of the extermination of the Troubadours;
we have already noticed the rise of the Inquisition. It
was an institution so congenial to the nature ofpopery,
that its HOLY OFFICES-its OFFICES OF MERCY1 as they
were called in that spirit of devilish abuse of Chris-
tianity in which they were conceived, were speedily
to be found in various countries of Europe, Asia, and
America, but distinguished most fearfully in Spain.
Their horrors have been made familiar to the public
mind by the writers of romance, especially by Mrs.
Ratcliffe; but all the powers of romance have not
been able to overcolour the reality. Spain has always
claimed and gloried in the supremacy of her inquisi-
tion. She has strenuously contended with the pope
for it; and has deemed it so national an honour, as to
parade the auto-da-fe as one of her most fascinating
spectacles. Her kings, her queens, her princes, and
nobles, have assembled with enthusiasm to witness
them. So great a treat did the Spaniards formerly
consider them, that Llorente states that on February
25th, 1560, one was celebrated by the inquisitors of
Toledo, in which several persons were burnt, with
some effigies, and a great number subjected to
penances; and this was performed to entertain the
new queen Elizabeth, daughter of Henry II. ofFrance,
a girl ofthirteen years of age, accustomed in her own
country to brilliant festivals suitable to her rank and
age. So completely may priestcraft brutalize a nation,
and so completely has this devilish institution stamped
the Spanish character, naturally ardent and chivalric.
with gloomy horror, that both Llorente and Limborch
represent ladies wituessing the agonizing tortures of
men and women expiring in flames, with transports of
delight. By means of this infernal machine, the
IN ALL AG:ES. 165
Spanish kings have contrived to crush the mind ofthe
country; to check the growth of literature; to nourish
a spirit of ferocity; and to produce a race of people the
slaves of the worst government, and the most ignorant
and bigoted priests. To thi~ cause in fact, Spain owes
its present misery and degradation. Llorente, whose
work is founded on official documents, drawn from
the archives of the inquisition itself, when he was
secretary to it, gives a long list of the learned and
ingenious Spaniards whom it has persecuted and
condemned. The ostensible object of its early exer-
tions, was to extirpate the Jews, Moors and Morescoes;
and so successful were its efforts, that Llorente cal-
culates that in one hundred and nineteen years it
deprived Spain of three millions of inhabitants.
Mariana says 170,000 families of Jews were banished,
and the rest sold for slaves. They entered Portugal,
but were again commanded by the Portuguese king to
quit that realm also. The Moors were suffered to
depart; but as the Jews were preparing to do so, the
king commanded that all those who were not more
than fourteen years old, should be taken from their
parents and educated in the Christian religion. It
was a most afflicting thing, to see children snatched
from the embraces of their mothers ; and fathers em-
bracing their children, toru from them, and even
beaten with clubs ; to hear the dreadful cries they
made, and every place filled with the lamentations
and yells of women. Many through indignation,
threw their sons into pits, and others killed them with
their own hands. Thus prevented on the one hand
from embarking, and on the other oppressed and per-
secuted, many feigned conversion, to escape from their
miseries. The cruelties practised on these people,
to compel them to embrace a religion )Vhich was
thus represented as only fit for devils, make one's
"" ,,Coogle
166 PlliESTCRAF1'
blood boil to read them. The Reformation appeared,
and found these monsters fresh employment. The
doctrines of Luther appear to have made so rapid a
progress scarcely in any country as in Spain. Num-
bers of the highest ranks, of the most intelligent
ladies, of ecclesiastics, embraced the principles of the
reformer; and, had it not been for the inquisition.
that country might now have figured in the front of
Europe with a more glorious aspect, as a great and
enlightened state, than it did under Charles V. The
inquisition had the satisfaction of extinguishing the
revived flame of Christianity, and of reducing Spain
to its present deplorable condition. All the fury and
strength of that great engine of hell was brought to
bear upon it: its auto-da-te were crowded w:ith
Lutheran heretics ; its fires consumed them ; its
secret cells devoured them-men, women, children
were swept into its unfathomablegulph of destruction.
Priestly malice triumphed over truth and virtue.
To such gigantic stature of power did this dismal
institution attain, that no one was safe from its fangs.
The confiscation of the goods of its victims whetted
the appetite of priestly avarice so keenly, that a man
to be guilty of heresy had only to be rich. Llorente
gives several cases of English merchants, who were
pounced upon by it in defiance of the law of nations.
On one occasion Oliver Cromwell had to intercede far
an English consul, whom they had got into their
dens. The king replied, he had no power over the
inquisition. " Then," added Cromwell, in a secODd
message, "if you have no power over the inquisitiOil,
I will declare war against it." The threat wall efFec·
tual. So little power had the Spanish kings over It_
indeed, that it did not hesitate to aocuae them ; and
Llorente's lists are full of nobles, privy councillora,
knights, magiatratea, military commandere, and :aam.
IN ALL AGES. 167
of the highest birth, on whom these daring priests
laid their hands, and loaded them with chains and
infamy. It seemed a peculiar delight to them to
insult and degrade thoae who had moved in the moat
distinguished spheres. In Portugal, says Limborch,
all the prisoners, men and women, without any
regard to birth or dignity, are shaved the first or
second day of their imprisonment. Each prisoner has
two pots of water every day : one to wash, and the
other to drink ; a besom to cleanse his cell, and a mat
of rushes to lie upon.
The same historian gives, in a few passages, a vivid
summary of the operations of this odious institution.
" In countries where the inquisition has existed, the
bare idea of ita progress damped the most ardent
mind. Formidable and ferocious as the rapacious
tiger, who from the gloomy thicket surveys his unsus-
pecting prey, until the favoured moment arrives in
which he may plunge forward and consummate its
destruction, the inquisition meditates in secret and in
silence its horrific projects. In the deepest seclu-
sion the calumniator propounds his charge ; with
anxious vigilance the creatures of ita power regard
its unhappy victim. Not a whisper is heard, or the
least hint of inaecurity given, until at the dead of
night a band of savage monsters surround the dwell-
ing; they demand an entrance:-upon the inquiry, by
whom is this required? the answer is, "the holy
office." In an instant all the ties of nature appear
as if dissolved, and either through the complete do-
minion of superstition, or the conviction that resist-
ance would be vain, the master, parent, husband is
resigned. From the bosom of his family, and bereft
of all domestic comforts, lle enters the inquisition
house; ita ponderous doors are closed, and hope ex-
PRIESTCRAFT
eluded-perhaps for ever. Immured in a noisome
vault, surrounded by impenetrable walls, he is left
alone ; a prey to all the sad reflections of a miserable
outcast. If he venture to inquire the reason of his
fate, he is told, that silence and secresy are here
inviolable. Accustomed to the conveniences of social
life, and perhaps of a superior station, he is now
reduced to the most miserable expedients. The most
menial offices now devolve upon him; while the cruel
reflection obtrudes itself upon his mind, that his
family may, ere long, be reduced to indigence by an
act of inquisitorial confiscation." And with snch
fiendish ingenuity is the punishment of confiscation
aggravated, that it is followed as of necessary conse-
quence, by the person being rendered for ever
infamous,-that is, he is incapable of holding office
of any kind ; his children are disinherited, and made
infamous, or incapable to the second generation by
the father's side, and first by the mother's. All his
relations are liberated from their obligations to him,
or connexion with him ; his children are freed from
his control ; his wife is liberated from her marriage
vows ; his servants or vassals are freed from their
servitude ; he is compelled to answer inquiries of
others on any affair, but no one need answer him.
He has no protection from the laws, and no remedy
against oppression or injustice. His very children,
brothers and sisters, ought to abandon him ; and the
only way of a son escaping the infamy of his father, is
by being the first to accuse him to the tribunal of the
inquisition.
Then come the secret examinations, the accusa-
tions from unknown sources, the intimidations,-the
torture ! The torture has five degrees :-first, being
threatened to be tortured: secondly, being carried
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 169
to the place of torture: thirdly, by stripping and
binding: fourthly, the being hoisted on the rack:
fifthly, squassation.
The stripping is perlonned without regard to
humanity or honour, not only to men, but to women
and virgins. As to squassation, it is thus perfonned:
the prisoner has his hands tied behind his back, and
weights tied to his feet, and then he is drawn up on
high, till his head reaches the very pulley. He is kept
hanging in this manner for some time,that by the great-
ness of the weight hanging at his feet, all his joints
and limbs may be dreadfully stretched, and on a sud-
den be is let down with a jerk, by slackening the rope,
but kept from coming quite to the ground; by which
terrible shake his arms and legs are all disjointed,
whereby he is put to the most exquisite pain ; the
shock which he receives by the sudden stop put to
his fall, and the weight at his feet, stretching his whole
body more intensely and cruelly. According to the
orders of the inquisition, this squassation is repeated
once, twice, or three times in the space of an hour.
Another mode of torture is, by covering the mouth
and nostrils with a thin cloth, so that the victim is
scarcely able to breathe through them ; then, letting
fall from on high water, drop by drop, on his mouth,
which so easily sinks through the cloth to the bottom
of his throat, so that it is impossible for him .to
breathe, his mouth being filled with water, his nostrils
with the cloth ; so that the poor wretch is in the
agony of death. When this cloth is pulled out of his
mouth, as it often is, to answer questions, it is all .
over water and blood, and is like pulling his bowels
through his mouth. All this time he is lying in
what is called the wooden-horse ; that is, a trough
across which a bar is placed, on which the man's
back rests, instead of on the bottom, while his arms,
, . ,,Coogle
170 PRIESTCB.AFT
ahins, and thighs are tied round with small cords,
drawn tight by screws, till they cut to the very
bones.
The physician Orobio, a 1ew, gave a most lively
account of the torture practised upon him after he
had lain in his dungeon three years. He was brought
to the place of torture. It was towards evening.
It was a large underground room, arched. and the
walls covered with black hangings. The candle-
aticks were fastened to the wall, and the whole
enlightened with candles placed in them. At one
end there was an enclosed place, like a closet, where
the inquisitor and notary sate at a table : so that the
place seemed to him the very mansion of death,
everything appearing so terrible and so awful. After
aome preliminary torments, such as tying his th11Jllbe
with small cords till the blood spouted out from
beneath the nails ; they fastened him with small
cords, by means of little iron pulleys, to a wall aa
he sate upon a bencli. ; then drawing the co!ds which
fastened his fingers and toes with great violence, they
drew the bench from under him, and left him aus-
pended in the strings, till he seemed to be dissolving
in flame, such was his agony. Then they brought a
sort of ladder and struck it against his shins, giving
five violent strokes at once ; under the exquisite pain
of which he fainted away. They then screwed up
his cords with fresh violence, and tied others 10 near
that they slid into the gashes the first had made, and
produced such an effusion of blood that they sup-
posed him dying. On finding, however, that he wu
not, they repeated the torture once more, and then
remanded him to his cell!" To imagine men prao-
tising these cruelties on men, and that in the outraged
name of Christ, the fountain of love and mercy, ia
revolting enough; but to read of them mangliDg, dia-
IN ALL AGES, 171
locating, and dashing to pieces the delicate frames of
young and lovely women, of which Llorente gives
Tarious instances, puts the climax to our abhorrellt
indignation. Such, in particular, were the treat-
ment of lane Bohorques, and her attendant, a young
Lutheran girl, afterwards burnt at the auto-da-fe.•
A word on these auto-da-fe, and we will escape
from these horrors. Dr. Geddes' account of the
manner of celebrating them, as quoted in Limborch,
is one of the best and most condensed. " In the
morning of the day the prisoners are all brought into
a great hall, where they have the habits put on they
are to wear in the procession, which begins to come
out of the inquiaition about nine o'clock in the
morning.
" The first in the procession are the Dominicans,
who carry the standard of the inquisition, which
on the one side hath their founder Dominic's pic-
ture, and on the other side the cross between an
olive tree and a sword,· with this motto, '1ustitia
et Miaerecordia.' Next after the Dominicans come
the penitents, some with benitoes and some with-
out, according to the nature of their crimes. They
are all in black coats without sleeves, and bare-
footed, with a wax candle in their hands. Next
eome the penitents who have narrowly escaped being
burnt, who, over their black coat have flames painted
with their points turned downwards, to signify their
• The method& of torture are not merely such as I have here
given-they are infinitely varied, and too dreadful to he borne
even in the recital. With them itia, indeed, a matterof science;
and I• tretted of in a volume to be found in the libraries of thi1
country-THI A:aT or ·To:aTVIlB-in which the most ingenioUI
modea of producing physical agony are detailed with the coolest
ac:curacy. I recollect the horror with which a friend of mine
opened this book, in the library of the Earl of Shrewsbury at
Alton.
172 PRIESTCRAFT
having been saved, but so as by fire. Next come
the ne~ative and relapsed that are to be burnt, with
flames Jupon their habit, pointing upward; and next
come those who profess doctrines contrary to those of
the church of Rome, and who, besides flames on
their habit pointing upward, have their picture,
which is drawn two or three days before, upon their
breasts, with dogs, serpents, and devils, all with
open mouths, painted about it.
"Pegna, a famous Spanish inquisitor, calls this
procession 'Horrendum ac tremendum spectaculum ;'
and so it is, in truth, there being something in the
looks of all the prisoners, besides those that are to be
burnt, that is ghastly and disconsolate beyond what
can be imagined ; and in the eyes and countenances
of those that are to be burnt, there is something that
looks fierce and eager.
" The prisoners that are to be burnt alive, besides
a familiar which all the rest have, have a jesuit on
each hand of them, who is continually preaching to
them to abjure their heresies ; but if they offer to
speak any thing in defence ofthe doctrines for which
they are going to suffer death, they are immediately
gagged. This I saw done to a prisoner presently
after he came out of the gates of the inquisition, upon
his having looked up at the sun, which he had not
seen for several years, and cried out in a rapture--
' How is it possible for people that behold that glo-
rious body, to worship any being but Him that created
it!' Mter the prisoners, comes a troop of familiars
on horseback, and after them the inquisitors and
other officers of the court upon mules ; and last of
all comes the inquisitor-general, upon a white horae
led by two men, with a black hat and green hat-band,
and attended by all the nobles that are not employed
as familiars in the procession. .
IN ALL AGES. 173
" At the place ofexecution, which at Lisbon is the
Ribera, there are so many stakes set up as there are
prisoners to be burnt, with a good quantity of dry
furze about them. The stakes of the professed, as
the inquisitors call them, may be about four yards
high, and have a small board whereon the prisoner is
to be seated, within half a yard of the top. The
negative and relapsed being first strangled and burnt,
the professed go up a ladder betwixt the two jesuits,
who spend about a quarter of an hour in exhorting
them to be reconciled to the church of Rome ; which,
if they refuse, the jesuits descend, the executioner
ascends and secures them to the stake. The jesuits
then go up a second time, and at parting tell them-
•they leave them to the devil, who stands at their elbow
to receive their souls, and carry them into the flames
of hell-fire.' Upon this a great shout is raised, 'Let
the dogs' beards be made !' which is done by thrusting
flaming furzes, fastened to long poles, against their
faces. And this inhumanity is commonly continued
until their faces are burnt to a coal, and is always
acompanied by such loud acclamations of joy as are
not to be heard on any other occasion; a bull-feast or
a fair being dull entertainments to this. ,
" The professeds' beards having been thus made, or
trimmed, as they call it in jollity, fire is set to the
furze which are at the bottom of the stake, and
above which the professed are chained so high that
the top of the flame seldom reaches higher than the
seat they sit on ; and if there happen to be a wind,
to which that place is much exposed, it seldom
reachP.s so high as their knees. If it be calm they
may be dead in half an hour, but if windy they are
not dead in an hour and a half or two hours, and are
really roasted, not burnt to death. But though, out
of hell, there cannot pO!!sibly be a more lamentable
174 PRIESTCJLAPT
spectacle than this, being joined with the an1ferera'
continual cry of, ' Mi&erecordia por afliOf' tle ~·
Mercy for the love of God I yet it is beheld by people
of both sexes, and all ages, with such transports of
joy and satisfaction, as are not witnened on aay
other occasion."
Mr. Wilcox, afterwards Bishop of Glouceatel',
wrote to Bishop Burnet, that he witnessed at Liaboa
in 1706, Hector Dias and Maria Pinteyra 'bumt
alive. The woman was alive in the flames half aD
hour; the man about an hour. The king and bia
brother were seated at a window so near as to be
addressed for a considerable time in very mo'ring
terms by the man as be was burning. All he asked
was a few more fagots, yet be could not obtain them.
The wind being a little fresh, the man's hinder parts
were perfectly roasted; and as he turned himself
round, his ribs opened before be left speaking, the
fire being recruited as it wasted, to keep him just ill
the same degree of heat ; but all his entreaties could
not procure him a larger allowance of wood, to
despatch him more speedily.
The Tictims who have suffered death or ruin from
this diabolical institution in various quarters of the
world, are estimated at some millions. Llorente
gives, from actual examination of its own records,
the following statement of the victims of the Spaniah
Inquisition alone.
Number of persons who were con-
demned and perished in the flames
Effigies burnt • • • •
Condemned to severe penances •
31,912
17,659
291,450
341,021
And these things the choicest agents of the devil,
Jlf ALL AGES. 175
have dared to act in the name of Christ, and men
.have believed them I Amid all the crimes of Napo.
leon, let it be for ever remembered that he annihilated
this earthly hell with a word,-but Englishmen re.
11tored Ferdinand to the throne of Spain, and Ferdi-
nand restored the inquisition. We fought to give
Spaniards freedom, and we gave them the most blasting
despotism which ever walked the earth-the despot-
ism of priestcraft ; with fire in one hand, and eternal
-darkness and degradation in the other. Cromwell
bad a differen~ spirit-he menaced war on the inqui-
&ition--and the menace was heard to the lowest
depths of its infernal dens. If the arm of cruelty be
shortened, it is neither owing to the priests nor their
creature Ferdinand, but to the light which has entered
.Spain during its political concussions.
Another subject connected with this history might
also form a separate chapter-the state of those Eu-
ropean countries which yet retain popery. It would
be an interesting inquiry, and would amply bear out
the character already drawn of priesteraft ; but the
consideration of our own state-religion draws me on,
and I must refer my readers to the abundant works
of our modem travellers for those matters-if indeed
it be not enough to lift our eyes, and, at a cursory
view, see the mark of tlle beast stamped on the bosom
of every nation where it prevails-in characters of
slavery, ignorance, calamity, and blood. France,
roused by the united oppressions of kingcraft and
priestcraft, rushed into a premature struggle with
them, in which religion and liberty were both wrecked,
and such horrors perpetrated as tum the sickening
eyes of the beholder away, blinded with burning tears.
France, thirsting for civil and religious freedom, yet
unprepared in its popular heart for its secure enjoy-
ment, arose like a giant in wrath, and smarting with
176 .Pli.IESTCJU.FT
the accumulated inflictions of popery and ci:rii·dea-
potism, crushed together its wrongs and its hopea.
France, starting from the extreme slumber of papal
slavery-a state in which its population received pas-
sively all dogmas and all ordinances, a state witbout
inquiry-plunged at once into the opposite extreme
of restless scrutiny after the true principles of govem-
ment and religion ; and like a man issuing at full
speed from darkness to the glare of noonday, has
seen nothing but indistinct and overpowering imags
of things-felt nothing but the wild frenzy of sud-
denly-acquired freedom; and has consequently floun-
dered on through changes, revolutions, and reeliuJ!
instability, that have been more fatal to the progrees
of true liberty than all the assaults of its determiDed
enemies. On the other hand, Spain and Portugal,
with a certain portion of intelligent arJd philosopbical
inhabitants, groarJ under the dead weight of their old
papal institutions and trains of priests, and woUDd
themselves to death in the vain endeavour to throw
them off, before the people are sufficiently regenerated
with the inbreakings of knowledge to give vigour to
the contest. In them we see the full consequenees
of the establishment of inquisitions, by which the
public mind acquires a habit of fear, and an incapacity
for daring development of mental energy, even where
the cause of real fear is no more. Were the people
of these countries once educated, they would throw
off monks, priests, and wicked kings, with the ease
that Sampson threw off his writhes-but where shall
this begin, where knowledge has long been treated as
damnable, and has been punished with death ? Such
is the state of ignorance, which it is the interest and
has always been the practice of popery to maintain
in those countries, that Lord Byron, speaking of the
ladies, says, they are beautiful, but the countess is
Ilf ALL AGBS. 177
no better informed than the commonest peasant girl.
Italy too lies prostrate beneath the double tyranny
of the altar, and the throne of the foreign barbarian,-
and the end of these things it is not easy to see.
Eternal are the thanks, the gratitude, and the honours
due to Huss, to Jerome of Prague, to Oldcastle,
to Wycliffe, and other martyrs and reformers, who
attempted, and to Luther and his contemporaries, who
finally were enabled to break down the mightiest of
spiritual despotisms, and free part of mankind from
the nightmare of a thousand years ; leaving us in the
bright day-beams of knowledge and freedom, not to
auft'er, but to sigh over the miseries which the bloodiest
of priesthoods has inflicted for centuries on the world;
-and not to sigh only, but to exert ourselves to
spread still wider the impulse of good which they
have given. Who shall tell what effects on the con-
tinental nations the regeneration of the religious in-
stitutions of this mighty and illustrious nation shall
yet produce ?
.lf
179
THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
CHAPTER XV.
Where Ollll particulru; priesthood has rank ia the state, othera
are not free ; and where they all have, the people are not free.
So far as the ceremonies of one particular faith are connected
witli filling any particular occupation, entering into the rela-
tions, or enjoying any of the advantages of civil life, there ia Dot
n,ligiou, liberty. It ia a fallacious distinction which has some·
times been drawn, that a state may patronize, though it should
not yunis~. A gov~m_ment cannot patronize one particular
religton wttbont pnmsh10g others. A state baa no wealth but
the people's wealth ; if it pay some, it impoverishes -others. A
state is no fouatain of honour. If it declare one class free, it
thereby declares others slaves. If it declare some noble, it thereby
declares others ignoble. Whenever bestowed with partiality,
its generosity is injustice, a11d its favour is oppression.
W. J. Fox's SEaiiOH8 ON THE MllsioN, CaARACTBR,
AND DOCTRINE OF CHRIST.
ONB would have imagined that when the horrors
and enonnities of that long reign of spiritual slavery
which I have been detailing-that of the infamous
pap4W hierarchy-had roused a great part of Europe
to scotch the old serpent of Rome ; to burst asunder
the vile and envenomed folds whkh she had wrapped
round the soult the life, and liberties of man,-that
the reformed churches.would have been careful so t()
organize themselves as to prevent temporal power
•N2
180
~pin enslaving:religion.. :Bu~ in the flmt place, it·is
no- easy ma~el' .to ecape the grasp ·of regal ·aad
'political dominion; and in the next, it is ·rarely ·the
case that men are prepared, after a loag sufferance·of
slavery, to enjoy and secure freedom. To expect
this, is to expect that he whose body has been
eramped by chains, and wasted by vigils in the dat.
dungeons of power for years, should at once,·on
coming out, stretch forth his limbs, acquire in a mo-
ment the vigour and elasticity of his muscles, and
bound over the hills with the breathing buoyancy
of the youthful hunter, to whom every day lnings
exercise, and with exercise, force and adroitness.· It
is to expect that the issuer from the dungeon shall
·~ at once the light of day with an eagle's glance,
.-nd regard every thing around him wid! the perspi-
cUous familiarity of those who have daily •albl
about in the eye of heaven. :Besides, in the exult-
ation of conquest over an old despotiam, the populaee
are .always, for the moment, too creduloualy >trustiDg
to the professions of those who pretend to rejoieewith
them in order to enslave them anew. In a while they
wake from their dream of good nature, but it is too
late,..,...they are again clasped in honda, and environed
. with bars that nothing but the oppressiOBS of Bg'is
, can corrode, and some far-off out-breaking of papabr
indignation can dash asunder. :·
-: · · Sw:h has been the fate, more or less,' of all·the re-
' formed churches of Europe ; but their ~~
; cannot follow, we must confirut··olttleh. ·· londle
...Qhurcb of England ;-the - least.-refo~ tla6-·u.,rt
, : ~l.v(!l:l « all. The refonnation in ·~~~
n JCo~d and eon-.inued, so.Jar.aa·4t ~~
•riUiiO.~ eireumatancee. lt.·w&ai a.;t-,dut ..ult
.i fli_.. !SIJQhr·• " ripltn~d · and··ilteet&BiMblevredth~
.;_-ot.,~ ,po~ mmd. !ls.Jil1lat ~· th~waoell
•N 2
Goog.c
lSI
before it; but it waa brought·about by the arbitrary
passions of that monster, Henry VIII.-one of the
most libidinous and bloody wretches that ever dis•
;graced a throDe. At one moment it was his will,
because it suited his pleasure, to be the advocate of
the pope; at another, because it was necessary to the
gratification of his indomitable desires,-his most
despente antagonist. For this he threw otf the
papal yoke--but not to give the church freedom-
nothing could be tiuther from his intentions : it was
only to make it his servant and his slave. He de;.
clared himself the head of the church of Christ in
these kingdoms. What a head for such a church I
The despotism of opinion was only changed in name ;
and it appears to have been the effect of the merest
accident that it was changed at all. Everything was
on the point of being amicably settled between the
British and the Italian tyrant, when it was rumoured
at the papal court, that Henry had witnessed a dra-
matic representation inwhich that courtwas ridiculed.
In a moment of impolitic passion, the " triple tyrant"
thundered against Henry his bull of denunciation,
and the breach was made immortal. Heavily and
long did the pontiff curse the moment in which he
fmgot, in his passion, the priest's proper cunning;
but his regret was unavailing-England was lost
for ever.
Edward VI. was a truly pious youth, and was
unquestionably desirous of doing what was right ;
Gu.t he was a feeble invalid, and was in the hands of
-priesta, who did with him as they pleased. ·The
·liturgy framed for the church in this reign, Elizabeth
Aftmwarde revised by her bishops, and· bl'Oilght· to
· diM state ill which it substantially 'remains to .this
•day.. ·It wauaot·iiHhe nature of that·man' in''psui-
•CJOatl;..._that Henry VIII. in a female mask,~•
ll'ltlUTC Jl.iFl'
CODIIllt the inclinations of the people so mueh as her
oltn high will. in which glowed all tbe domimmoe
and all the apirit of the Tudors. Instead of being
willing, say Heylin and Strype, to strip religion of
the ceremonies which remained in it, abe waa 'rathel
inclined to bring the public worship atill nearer to
the ·Roman ritual ; and had a great propeasity to
several \laagea in the church of Rome whieh '1f8re
justly looked upon .as mperstitious. She thanJied
pultlicly one of her chaplains who had pntaehed iJt
defence of the real presence; she was.fond of inulgea;
and retained some in her chapel ; and would uo.
doubtedly have forbidden the marriage of the clergy,
if Cecil, her secretary, had not interpoaed. Having
appomted a committee of divines to revise King Jid.o
ward's liturgy, she gave them an order to al:rikewt
all offensive passages against the pope, and malut
people easy about the corporal presence of Cbriit
in the sacrament.
That an imperious woman, who, not finding it
accordant with the love.of undivided power to marry,
was jealous of all who did ; who even impriiODedller
relatives and maida of honour who premmed to
marry, should attempt to pre.vent the clergy llllln7'"
ing, was not very wonderful: .but alae did aot atop
here. Those of her subjem who .were desirous ·rl
a purer, simpler, more apostolic, and leas .woddlf
syetem of worahip ; .who .had fled to the contiaeat
from the fire and chains of her aiatet- M.y, ·andW
iletmued, hoping better thingl at her 1umda, •
-ared to submit to her royal will! and ~ *
im&nus.act of u,.iftJmJity, by whieb all ller allbjeat8
-.et~e< coDUIIBDded .to observe the'l'11lea ·her biahoptra.d
framed, ·and! to take upIWith mch a reformation o~
dwch,as she had pleased.to ~ them, wi.dlluaelf
.. 'die: ritibie'.lsead..of .the clmrcb.upon earth. '•
tw · AL"L AGU.
poritans-.for .so they•were called,Jbrdesiring a :p.wltl'.
"''ffmbi~ed their auent .to these. pmoeoctingt;
pleaded:the .dietates of their CIJllsciencea ·in:bebalf·_.
tlie~ refusal ; and complained heavily,: that the gro••
mperatitions of popery, which they had looked upon
as abmgated and aboliahed, were now Tevived, and
e\!en -imposed by authority. But they pleaded and
eampllined in vain. Wbat were their cwsciencea .w
tais ·she--tyrant.? the indulgence of whoee · •elf~will
was. of. more ·preaious value in her eyes than die.
rigMa ·and CODllcumcea of millions of people. i4be
not.only commanded and exactled; but fullowing·the
example of po~, she set up the fire and the &got;
and.IUJi>ped all objections with those powetful argu•
mellts. .It is a ·~ fact, that no state relision,
pllfJIUl<
orChriatian, from tile foundation of tlae world.
as:this hillltory will shew, but is stained with blood.
Heory VIIL, Edward VI., and Elizabeth, .all reo
sorted to it, and while professing to reform ~on1
they ga.ve the death-blow to liberty of oonaoience,
ad :reacted .all the horrors of Roman pene<rcWon.
.. What ·could be expected of a clmreh th'lll·born·in
the throes of the ·most evil passions, cradled in.ubi..
tnry power, and·baptized in blood ?-Nothing bm &
:melancDoly death-of all those high andglorioU&:hopoa·
whieh.>
the Refoiiilatian awoke, and had it been per..
~tted, unshackled by regal and priestly power,. to
take- ·U. C01Il'le, cwould naturally have ·nized.
BJ:Uabeth proceeded, with .that rigorous ud ~
baad which madeher..civil government respected,lilm
wai mostunhallowedly and calamitously tJamst,:iDflrl
tibe ·aaaed•tabenacle of conscience, .to ·eatablilb: '
c.'iuurt·of,high :commiseion to enforce · taoae· popielt
rit8s1 doctriaes, •·ud ceremonies, which .she· ·'had
clbmpalled; Hie English:church'to <&dopt.· It took•
*
.rile from~ lWIIIIIl'li!&ble clause in11t&e Aet:.ef1Sllpre•
Coogle
M:aily,;,~ ~li· ue 'queen ·ana her·'Sl!eee9sors 'Were
eMpowel'ed ·•'lo · choose· persons wto exercise ·under
~' all manner of jurisdiction, privileges; md''Pfe~
etmnences,.:touching any spiritual or ecclesiiUitieal
jtu•Midiction in England and Ireland; as also to'villit
l'efotm, Yedress, {)rder1 correct, and amend-all ·error1J,
heresies, schisms, abuses, contempts, offimces, ·arid
~ormities whatever; provided that they have 'flO
power to determine anything to be heresy but what
hiUI been adjudged by the authority of the canonical
•criptures, or four first general councils, or any· of
~m, or shall be so declared by parliament Wittl
eonsent of tb.e clergy in convocation.'' These <lOin-
missioners were empowered to make inquiry, not only
by legal methods, but also by all otller me6Jls whieh
-
they could devise, that is by rack, torture, i~
ana. imprisonment. They had authority to examine
-all persons that they suspected, or feigned to Bllspecit,
by .an oath not allowed by their commission, imd
therefore called e:x:-officio, who were obliged to im-
s.we.r all questions, and thus to criminate themsel'ftfl
.and friends. The fines they imposed were di!iere-
·tionary ; the imprisonment to whieh they ·doomell
:was limited by no rule but their own pleasu're ; they
imposed as they pleased new articles offaith on·the
dergy, and practised all the cruelties and iniqUities
of a real inquisition. · · ·- ·
·· Thus, indeed, was the inquisition as fully andcebl-
pletely set up in England, by a aoi-tluam refu~
queen and reformed church, aa in Italy, Spe.iB,,er
~y of the .
old priest-ridden countries of popery.; and
~ow its powera.were exercised may be. seen ill '*
.foarful coloma en the bt-oad page of English hi6to~
4nc·the more fl1ll relations of the non-conformists and
~ssenters• .. Clergymen who could, not thus mould
their consciences at the wi,U_,of ~e Atat:o. ~~ _,ejec&al
Coogle
lU
~tbout mercy £rem their livings, and they ad t~i.r
f~ilies .e:wosed. to all the horrors of ponrty, con-
tlj~pl, a.nd peraecut.io•. So far as the regular clergy1
however, were concerned, the grievance was 1119t
gr~at ; for these principally consisted of Catholics.
who .had got in during M:sry's reign, and having .a
clear .perception that they were well off, and that
$er~ was little hope of another Romiah prince aue-
~g very speedily, they acted according to the
dictates of the priestly cunning, accommodated their
wn,sciences to their comfortable condition, and caJXIe
pver in a body to the new state of uu~. The
bishopa, Hume says, having the eye of the world
-Jilore particularly on them, made ita poiat of honoW',
~ having, by a sickly aeason, been reduced tG
iouneen, all these, except the Bishop of Landaft'e,
• .refused compliance, and were degraded : l1ut out of
the .10,000 .parishea of England,. only eight' vicar.s
~d rectors. fifty prebendaries, :fifteen heads of col·
l~e,, twelve archdeacons, and as many deans,.sacri·
Aoed.their livings to their religiou p:rinciples : a fact
~ered more striking to us by a future one,-tbt
19f the Presbyterian clergy, who bad obtained livings
jl.uring,the Commonwealth, and who, on the pasaiJig
9f the Act of Unifoani.ty again, on the restoration ol
,(:'harlea II., resigned, to the number of 2000,*in oo.e
day, to the astonishment of even their enemies, who
~ no notion of the existence of such high principle,
~~ially as they had not failed to tempt the moat
~e q£ t,llese.clergy with offers of deaneries ud ot.ber
!J •
1
• A derical reviewer has charged me with dishoneS!Y, io
1)iHiot thilf fact, and otnitting to state that three·times that nUtn•
b.n:ol.episllopaliall chr'gy -gcated on what be calla tbe rellelliotl
~IW. Ch~rles L . The faQt u, u tnay be llll&U. by tel'erenee,!0
1be authorities given at the end !1£ the Chapter of Persecuti!)nt.
1hey di? notvoluntarily resigtl ; they wereejec~<t withollt optlo'\~
.a:mJ·ebiefty.r~r acandaldlle lt.ea, · · .. · ··· · · :· · ·
P:&IBSTCJLAPT
prefe.nnents, and to Buter, Calamy, and ReyDolds
lrlshopries,-the last ofwhom only was weak eno~
to accept it. It was chiefly, therefore, on the dis-
senters, and on the mete conscientious .cleJ'!Y who
had been ejected from their livings in Mary's reign,
that the weight of persecution from the Ecclesiastical
Court fell. These were harassed with every postrible
wexation. They were fined, imprisoned, and destroyed
without mercy~ This state ofthings didDGt ce88e, ex·
ceptingduringtkeshortintervaloftheCommomrealth;
till the Act of ToleratioB, in the reign oC William III~
;put an ..eDd to it, and gave to conecienee eome degree
.of 1iber.ty. The Stuarts, who IRlcceetled Elisabeth,
with far less talent than the Tudors, had all their lOft
of tyrannical power; and so incorrigl."ble was this
principle in them, thatit soon broaght oae of them to
the block ; made his son a fugitive for the greater
;part of his life ; and, fi.aally, llotwithatandiDg tbe
good-natured relenting& of the people. who had ·
re-
stored his line to the throne, made daem rise oDCe
more, and drive the hopelessly despotic family froua
the tbune for ever.
Bnt, befoce we quit ElisaBeth, we mast ghe eome
clearer idea of her notion of a reformed church e~
bliahmeat. She insisted that the simpler forms IIIMI
dootriues of the chUJ.ICh ofGeneva should be avuided;
and that a sple:&did lrlerar:chy should be Imlintaine41
of arehbishops, hilhops, arohdeaoons, deans, cano1111,
and other officials; declared that the elturch of B...
was ·a true chureh, and adopted molt of·its relies and
ceremonies. Its festivals and holidays in honoar..of
saints were to be kept ; the aign of tlle cmaa was ta
be .u.ed in baptiam; kneeling'8t the saerament ef U.
Lord's supper; bowing·at the name of JeBUS; giriDg
the ring in matrimony ; confirmation of children by.
~piacopalian hands; forbidding ~ at cenaia
IJr .•
U.L· JUJBIL 187
aeaaana of the:year, and ma11y otller popiah ·
appeDd-
ages, were retained. The doctrine of the abaolution
ohins, and the damnatory creed·ofAthanasius, were
held fast; so that to many-exceptas to the marriage
Qfthe clergy, auricularconfession, and a leas pompoas
ad omate form of worship-little differenee between
popery and the English church could be discerned ;
ad to make the case still more intolerable, matters
of. indifference, such as were neither commanded nor
fptbidden by scripture-as the extemal rites of wor-
ship, the vesta of the clergy, religious feativala--were
put under the authority of the civil magistracy; and
those who refused to conform to them were thns made
rebels to the atate, and punishable accordingly. It
waa impossible to conceive a more thorough extinc-
tion of the rights of the subject in affairs of con-
sciea.ce-not in popery itself! The bishops having
tJws got power into their hands, speedily proceedei
tfl•exerei•e it,-to ahew the old prieatly spirit. In
1688, Bancroft, archbiahop of Canterbury, declared
that the episcopal orders were, by express appoint-
ment of God, superior to the presbyters, and that aU
priests.not Ol'dained by bishops were spurious. This,
sa.ya .Moaheim, waa the form of religion established
m.England, whieh laid the foundation for perpetual
diueaaions and feuds in that otherwise happy and
prosperous:nation.
..·Such waa.the £ormation of the church of EnglandI
aaeh.it remains :to the prelleJlt hour ! After such .an
origin, can any one wonder that it needs reform,
thorough reform; not merely of its abuses, which are,
as might naturally be expected from so absurd and
de.spotic a conMitution, become monstrous, but reform
aad entire remodelling of its ca~~ons ? While all
~nd it ·bas been progressing in knowledge and
be.
tter.undentan~ of the rights of conscience, and
Coogle
'181
the.tme nature of Christianity, here has tbis eldeSt
daughter of popery been standing still in body,
covered with all her deformities, with the mark of the
beast blazing on her forehead, and the filthy rags of
cast-oft' popery fluttering about her; and while every
clearer eye has been regarding this patchworkprogeny
of priestcraft and barbarism with mingled wonder,
ridicule, and abhorrence, she has been hugging her-
self in the fond idea, that she was the qpeen of
beauty, and the perfection of holiness! While the
civilized world has been moving about her, casting
off the mind, the manners, and the harsh tenets of
feudal rudeness, she has lain coiled up in the bright
face of advancing day, like some huge slimy dragon
castup by the sea ofages, in the midst ofa stirring and
refined city; and has only exhibited signs of life by
waving her huge scaled tail in menace of her foes,
and by stretching out her ten-taloned paws to devour
a tenth of the land. Can .such a monster longer
encumber the soil of England ? As soon might we
expect St. George to come leading his dragon into
London, or Dunstan present the devil, pincered in
his fiery tongs, at the door of Lambeth palace.
Dissent was forced on the nation by the bigotry
of the rulers and the priests ; it was fanned into
inextinguishable flame by continual jealousies an•
persecutions under every reign, till that of William
and Mary ; and in our own time, has, by the luke-
warmness ofthe established clergy,led to its exteniio11
tenfold in the new schism of the Methodists.• 'Die
' • The sagacious mind ofl'rlilton, saw in hia day the advantacif
ofthat system which Wesley in oura baa fut so aucceufullyiDID
operation. " Thus taught, once for al , and thua new ..,.
then visited and confi(med in the .JIIOit destitute ~ po.-
place~ of the land, under the government of their ..,a.....
perfonning all ministerial office& amongst them. they m&J lie
trUsted to meet and edify one another, wheth~ in churdl ot
Uf
history of the Society of Friends is full of tbe moit
singular persecutions on the part of the clergy, and
the .magistracy incited by them. To escape from
·this, William Penn, one of the greatest and mo1t
illustrious men which this country ever produc~,
led on this persecuted brethren to America, and there
founded one of the states of that noble country,
which has now arisen to a pitch of prosperity
which is the natural fruit of liberty ; and stands an
every-day opprobrium of priestcraft, and a monu•
ment not merely of the uselessness, but the impolicy
and nuisance -of establishments. In the new, but
great cities of that vast empire-in the depths of ita
eternal forests, and on its mountains, and ita
plains, that scorn to bear the scorching foot of des-
potism, millions of free men, who have escaped from
the temporal and spiritual outrages of Europe, lift
up their voices and their hearts in thanksgivings to
Him who has given them a land wide as human
wishes, and free as the air that envelopes it. They
haYe gone out from us to escape our cruelties and
jadignities, and are become our practical teachers
in the philosophy of religion and government•
. .The English church, which has been so lauded by
its.interested supporters, as a model of all that is
fure, dignified, holy, and compact, has not only thus
~o.mpelled dissent by its tyranny; but by the conaeat
'chapel, or to save them the trudging of many miles thith~,
nearer home, though in a house or barn. For, notwithstanding
tbe·gaudy aupentitioo of some atill ignorantly devoted to teriJ..
pies, we may he well assured, that he who did not disdain tQ be
~liifa meager, di!dains not to be preached in a barn ·; ·fUld
<4tiat~ by IIUCb meetings as these, being, indeed, most apostoli.Cal
:ahil primitive, they win, in a short time, advance more in Chri~
fda'ft·''lcn6\ffllldge and reformation of life, than by many years
.~mg()( sooh t.n iheumbent, I ·may say such an incumbranre
~t.,uaes; a~ will lie merely hired 'to abide long \n·such p,la!;es.!'
~o·~ .) . ·J <. ·- ·· .... , .. ,~ ·- \·~· :_. _. . . .· : . ..
Coogle
34,
l.fJJ.
lQO
of all historians, baa, from its commenoomst,·hila
composed like Nebuchadnezzu's image, of moatill•
¥eeing materials, miDgled brass and clay; and baa
consequently been continually .rent with difi'eriog
*tiona. The Tudors established popilh rites, &D.d
Edward VI. introduced Calvinistie doctrines; and
these, retained by Elizabeth and James I., Charles 1;
by a singular inconsistency sanctioned., at the II8IM
moment that, under the management of ·his. do:mil
neering Archbishop Laud, he was, strangely eno-aA
carrying Arminianism, and the claims of epilcopd
power, to the highest pitch,-tbat is, the doctrine. ol
free-will, and a prelatical despotism, destructive oe
all free-will, hand in hand; and would not cmly
force them upon the English, but on the Scotch.
This prelate, as complete a papist in spirit aa .any
that ever exercised despotism in the bosom of thllt
arbitrary church, has been much enlogiaed by good
men of the present day, who, themselves most amiable
in their own private circles, exhibit in their writiuglr
too much of the harshness and the bigotry of tbe
middle ages to be agreeable in this. The opinion ot
Hume has been often quoted in his favour; let ua
therefore see what Hume does say of him. "This
man was virtuous, if severity of manners al.oDe, and:
abstinence of pleasure, conld deserve that name. Ho·
was learned, if polemical knowledge could eatitle
him to that praise. He was disinterested; but with
unceasing induatry he studied to exalt the priestly
and prelatical character, which was his own. His
zeal was unrelenting in the cause of religion ; that is,
by imposing, by rigorous measures, his own teneta
and pious ceremonies on the obstinate puritans,
who had profanely dared to oppose him. In prose-
cution of his holy purposes, he overlooked everJ
human consideration; or,. in other worda, the b-.
Ui ALL .AG&S. UH
aad indiaaret:ion.of his temper made him neglect the
viem of prudence, and rules of good manners. He
was in this respect happy {how exactly the character
ofaome emiDent men of this day!)-that all his ene-
llrlas.were al8o imagined by him the declared enemiet
of loyalty and true piety;. and that every exercise
of his anger, by that means, became, in his eyes,
a. merit and a virtue. This was the man who
aoqnired 10 great an ascendant over Charles, and
who led him by the facility of his temper, into a
GODdw:t which proved so fatal to himself and to his
kingdom," He adds, that, "in retum for Charles's
iadolgenee towards the church, Laud, and his fol-
lowers, took C8l'e to magnify,. on every occasion, the
regal authority, and to treat with the utmost disdain
or detestation, all puritanical pretensions to a free
ad independent constitution." At the same time,
he continues, that "while these prelates exalted the
kingly power, they took care to set the priestly still
higher, and endeavoured to render it independent of
the sovereign. They declared it sacred and inde-
feasible; all right to private judgment in spiritual
matters was denied to laymen; bishops held spiritual
courts without a~~y notice taken of the k.ing's autho-
rity; and in abort, rapid strides were made, not only
towards the haughty deapotism ofpopery, but towards
its 1A1perstitions aarimonio'IISiless. Land, in spite
of public opinion and private remonstrance, intro-
duced pictures into the churches, shifted the altar
back to i1s old papal standing, set up again the crn-
eiftx, and advised that. the discipline and worship of
tbe:.chmch ahould be imposed in all the colonies, and
in all the regiments aud tJ.3ling companiert abroad,
ami.that no intim-:y sboald be maintained with the
reformed churches of the continent. All his mea-
smes, in.fact,. tellded.to.a.mos.t. popiah.state of cere-
-
..m- iD ·wanbip, and tynamy _. ·
intbllr-.a
llehaviour; and if any one, aft:er readiag die ~
.-rant of bia conaecration of St. CadaeriM'a clluell,
~nm on the antbGrity of Wellwood, R118hwodh, aa4
Franklin, can see any difference between him SDd a
lllOit thorough-going papist, he baa better ey•
than I.
"'On the bishop's appro.wh to the west door of
the church, a laud voice cried, 'Open, open, ye .,.._
lasting doors, that the king of glory may enter ia.'
Immediately the doors of the church flew opea, aacl
the bishop entered. Falling ()n his _
knees, with eyee
elevated, and arms expanded, he utterej these wordl:
•This place is holy; the ground is holy: in the
name of the :Father, the Son, aad the Holy GhOit,
I pronounce it holy.'
" ' Going towards the chancel, he several timea
took up from the floor some of the dust, and threw it
in the air. When he approached, with his attendants,
near to the communion table, he bowed frequently
towardl it; and on their return, they went ro1Dld die
ehnrch, t'epeating as they marched along, someoftbe
Psalms, and said a form of prayer, which concluded
in these wordl- ' We consecrate this chureh, ud
separate it unto Thee, as holy ground, not to be prooo
faned any more to common U&ell.'
" 'After this the bishop, standing near the eoiD,IDll•
&ion table, solemnly pronounced many imprecatioaa
upon such as should afterward• pollute that boly
place by musters of soldiers, or keeping in it profaae
law courts, or carrying burdens through it. Ob t:M
eonclusion of every curse, he bowed towarda the ~
a•d said-' Let all the people 18y, Amen.'
" •The imprecations being alao piously finiabed;
titer& were poured out a number of bleasings on Ul
such aa had any hand in building and forming that
Coogle
~ ud ~ .m&ee; aDd -en -.ueh aa-a.l
pftll, 01' lhould hereafter give to it, ·my ·clntiv•,
pSMe; Ol'll8IDflBtl, or utensils. At eYe'fY benedictiaa
be in like manner bowed towards the east, and cried-
, Let all tbe people say, Amen.'
" ' The sermon followed : after which the bimop
consecrated and administered the sacrament in the
following manner. As he approached the communion
qWe he made mmy lowly reverences; and, coming
up to that part of the table where the bread and wine
lay, he bowed seven times. After the reading of
mauy prayers, 'he approached the sacramental ele-
ment., and gently lifted up the napkin in which the
bzead was placed. When he beheld the bread, he
suddenly let fall the napkin, flew back a step or two,
bowed three several times towards the bread, then
he drew nigh again, opened the napkin, and bowed
as before.
" 'Next he laid his hand on the cup, which had a
cover upon it, and was filled with wine. He let go
the cup, fell back, and bowed thrice towards it. He
approached again, and lifting up the cover, peeped
in. Seeing the wine, he .let fall the cover, started
back, and bowed as before. Then he received the
aaerament, and gave it to others; and, many prayera
being said, the solemnity of the consecration .ended.
The walls and floor and roof of the fabric were then
euppoiled to be sufficiently holy."
The consequence of these ridiculous ceremonies
on the one hand, and severities on the other,-for
the English Inquisition, in the form of the High
Commiasion Court, and the Star Chamber, was in
full exercise, and many cruelties and iniquities WtWe
continually practised in them on tlwse who dared to
have an opinion of their own,-was, that Laud was
o•
194
brought to the block,* and his sovereign was leCt
in that .calamitous cotll'se of unaucceaaful deapotiam·
w.hieh actually brought him there, and deluged the
whole nation in blood, and tossed it in years of anar-
chy and crime. By these circumstancea, however, the-
church received, what Lord Chatham RO expressively
designated in Parliament-a Popish Lit1o1rgy-a Cal-
'linistic Creed, and an Armenian Clergy.
The heterogeneous materials of the church shewed
conspicuously in the famous assembly of divines at
Westminster during part of Charles's reign and part
of the Commonwealth. This assembly consisted of
clergymen expressly nominated by parliament, two
from each English county, except Durham; o~ from
each Welsh county ; two from each university ; from
Jersey and Guernsey two; from London fO\!Z ;
amounting to 100; afterwards increased to 120;
with whom also were associated ten members of the-
House of Lords, and twenty of the Commons, with
subsequent additions from parliament, and foUl' dele-
gates from the kirk of Scotland. Amongst the
higher clergy were Browning, bishop of Exe~r,
Prideaux of Worcester, Westfield of Bristol, and
Usher, Lord Primate of Ireland and bishop of
Carlisle, Morley, afterwards bishop of Winchester.
• It is pity that an awhbishop like Laud should be brought
to such an end; because there are so much cheaper ways, and
more economical of human suffering than the reel murder oi
politicale::emies in the manner of Vane and Ney. Hut con-
siderations of this kind should hinder no man from discemiag,
bow entirely all that constitutes public and private freedom,
happiness, and honour, has been obtained by the conquest and
beating down, and is, ia fact, the spoil of war carried oft" by tbe
subjection and tmmpling under foot of tbat political and ecele-
siastical party who have just received another migbty bruise i
and of whom it has been truly said, that but for their anccessiye
llefeata, England would at this moment have been Spain, PCJI'-
Iupl. or Turlley.-W'~ &Rev, ..Vo. XXXIY.
Coogle
lN ALL AO.U, J~S
Sanderson of tincoln, and Hackett of Liebfteld.
Usher had already, in 1641, with the approbation of
several of his most distinguished brethren, submitted
to parliament a plan for reducing the hierarchy to a
synodal government. A great portion ofthese divines
were now for the pure Presbyterian form ; otlten for
that of the tndependents, and some for an Eraatian
system of perfect freedom. Here was a house divided
against itself. Clarendon, one of the advocates
of church and state, declares, that " of the 120
divines of which the assembly was to consist, there
were not above twenty who were not avowed ene-
mies to the doctrine or discipline of the church of
England ;" yet Rushworth and Whitlocke tell us
they were chosen from the most eminent the chun:h
po~ed. .
In after days, Tillotson, Burnet, Stillingfl.eet were
distinguished as authorized reformers of the church
liturgy and canons : and after them bishop Clayton
proposed, in the House of Lords, the omission of the
Athanasian and Nicene creeds. Watson, Law, and
Paley made propositions in their writings which
startled their brethren ; and Hoadley, preaching a
sermon before George I., made such a declaration of
the anti-Christianity of a state religion as rent the
church with years of violent controversy. By the
acceseion o£ William and Mary a great schism was
made : part of the hierarchy adhering to the Stuart
line, refusing to swear allegiance to the new dynasty,
and thus acquiring the name of Non-jurors,-splitting
the church into High-church and Low-church,--two
parties whoae feuds and heart-burnings continued
till late years, when the sect of the Evangelicals hitS
appeared, to bear prolonged evidence to the inter-
nal destitution of the principles of .cohesion in. the
Establishment. These lean towards the Clalviniatie
•o2
•
1;96 PlUE&TCRA.PT.
creed, which they justly assert is the strict literal <reed
of the church according to the Thirty-nine Articles ;
and advocate a refonn in the manners, and a renewed
zeal in the spirit of the clergy. Mr. Acaster, one of
their own body, tells us that almost all varieties of
doctrine have been, or may be, found amongst·tlle
ministers ofthe Establishment. When we add to $his
that whereas in other countries the church is under
the government of one deliberative body, anci is in
this split into two houses of convocation, we have
before us a picture of unconnectedness that is per-
fectly amazing.
This is but a melancholy sketch of the history of
this celebrated church ; but it is one so broadly,
copiously, and overwhelmingly delineated in the
annals of the nation at large, that it cannot be con-
troverted ;-a history, as that of every state religion
must be, of power usurping the throne of conaeie~~ee ;
thrusting the spirit of the people from free address
to, and communion with their God ; and in refuaal of
obedience-an obedience more deadly and shameful
than the most outrageous resistance could polllibly
be-following them with the fire and sword of exter-
mination ; or if that were not allowed, with the sDA!el!
and taunts of contempt. Alas ! that such should be
the miserable results of the reformation, which at
first promised such glorious fruits ; that the blood of
martyrs, and the fervid prayers and mighty exemons
ofthe noblest intellects, and holiest meu, should be
spent so much in vain.
· But 111ch ever has been, and ever will be the~­
BDlt.of that great fundamental euor, of linking in
:nlWiltural· union church and state; ot maltiiig, the
· ahunth of Christ, who has himaelf declared that f his
·,k.iJlsdom ia not of thia world." a,tool of ~us
~ ..kiugs,and rulers.. ' · . ~
•
IN ALL AGBS. 197
The nature of the Chriatian religion is essentially
free ; the voice of Christ proclaims to men-" the
•troth shall make you free!" The spirit of Chris-
tianity is so delicate in its sensibility, that it shrinks
from the touch of the iron and blood-stained hand of
political rule ; it is 10 boundless in its aspirations,
and expansive in its energies, that it must stand on
the broad champaign of civil and intellectual liberty,
ere it can stretch its wings effectively for that flight
which is destined to encompass the earth, and end
Ollly in eternity. And what has been the conse-
quence of attempting to chain this free spirit to the
ear of state ? Why, that in its days of earlier union,
arbitrary power sought to quench in its own sacred
name, its own very life !-pursued with fire, sword,
fetters, dungeons, and death, its primest advocates.
The history of dissent is full of these horrors : and
Ireland, in which the same system was pursued ; and
Scotland, that sooner than submit to it, rose and
stood to the death in many a mountain pass and
bloody valley, can testify to the same odious policy.
The oppressions and splendid resistance of the Scot-
tish Covenanters,-the bloody havoc made amongst
them by the soldiery of reformed kings and a re-
formed church ; and their undaunted and most pic-
turesque celebration of their own simple worship,
lifting up their voices amid the rocks and desarts
whither they were driven for their adherence to their
religion, are well told by their own historians, but
have been made of immortal interest by Sir Walter
Scott. From the first to the last-from the accession
ofJ"ames I. to the throne of England, to the expulsion
of James II. from that throne, a period of upwards
.ot eighty years, the Stuarts persisted in the most
··tyrannical endeavoun to force on their native coun-
try of Scotland the episcopal chureh ; and, in. eon-
aequence, deluged that high-spirited and beautiful
country with blood. Many a solitary heath, many a
scene of savage rocks in that land, where the peasant
now passes by and only wonders at its wild silence, are
yet loud in the ear of heaven in eternal complaints
of the bloody and domineering deeds of the English
church, wrought by its advice and by the hireling
murderers of its royal head ; many a name--as Kil-
sytbe, Killicranky and Bothwell Bridge-will rise
up for ever in the souls of men against her. But it
will be as well to go a little more particularly into
these matters in a separate chapter.
/
,Coogle
CHAPTER XVI.
ENGLISH CHURCH CONTINUED-A CHAPTER OF
PEilSECUTJONB.
ltf
I love to see a man zealous in a good matter, and especially
when hia zeal showa iuelf in advancing morality and promoting
the hap~;>inesa of mankind. But when 1 find the insUUmt:nts he
works wtth are racks and gibbets, galleys and dungeons ; when
he imprisons men's persons, confiscates their estates, ruins their
families, and burns the body to save the soul, I cannot stick to
pronounce of such a one, that, whatever be may think of his
faith and his religion,-hia faith is vain, and his religion ia
unprofitable. ADnuow.
RECORDEa.-My lord, you mast take a course with that
same fellow.
MAYoa.-Stop his mouth, gaoler. Bring fetters, and stake
him to the ground.
PaNw.-Do your pleasnre ;-1 matter not your fetters.
RECoRDER.-Till now, I never understood the reii80D of the
policy and prudence of the SuNuaDs, in suffering the INqcz·
SJTION among them ; and certainly it will never be well with ua,
till something like the SPANISH INQUISITION be in England.
Trial of William Penn and William Mead, al the
Old Bailey, for Preaching, ift 1670.
THE desolating effects of a political religion never
were more conspicuous than during the reigns of the
Tudors and the Stuarts in this country. The com-
bined influence of royalty and priestcraft upon the
reformation deserves the most solemn consideration.
Never were their evil powers more evilly exerted.
J:lle xi~. ,fabtic. of teligious freedom :was .~ud.de~.
stricken into a melancholy ruin; and to this hqut ~e.
feel the wounds inflicted on our fathers~ •;
. Henry VIII. made himself the most absolut-e of
monarchs ;-his will was the sole law. He declar~d
that his proclamation was tantamount to an act ot
p1;1orliament, and acted upon it both civilly and ~cleo:
siastically. He dealt out royal mutders abundantly.
This throned Bluebeard slaughtered his wives one
after the other; he attainted of high treason sixteen
people at once, and executed their sentence upon
them without trial ; and at another time, butnt six
persons together, half papists, half protestants, tying
a protestant and a papist arm to arm. The papists
he killed because they did not go far enough for h.i.m.
the protestants because they would go too far. He
made his parliament pass in 1539 the famous Bloody
Statute, or Statute of Six Articles, by which the
actual Presence was declared to be in the sacramental
bread and wine ; priests were forbidden to marry ;
vows of chastity were to be observed ; and maas
and auricular confession maintained. This act W8l!l
in force for the remainder of his reign ; those who
opposed it were to suffer death ;-yet this was called 11
reformation ! This singular royal reformer issued his
fiat, that no doctrine should be believed contrary to
the Six Articles ; no person should sing or rhyme
cpntrary to it ; there should be no book posseued by
any one against the holy sacrament ; no annotatioRa,
or preambles in Bibles or Testaments in English;
no women, artificers, apprentices, journeymen, serv~
~~men, husba11dmen, or labouters., sh<>Wd ned
the New Testament in English; nothing ahouhl
be taught contrary to the king'~ instructions ~
get this teas a reformation ! The bishops and
priests took carE! .to oppose his will no further thaa
"" ,,Coogle
tll.ey were safe ; and lay ·'in wait for opportuniti~
to·' bring back what little popery was taken away;
When the pope excommunicated Henry, and de-'
clared by his bull that all faith towards him was
aboliShed ; that his subjects and. enemies should
cease all league and allegiance, he issued his royal
threat of confiscation of all clerical property, if the
clergy did not implicitly adhere to him, and abandon
the pope. They knew his nature and their own ;-
they clung to their livings, and were as quiet as they
knew how. Towards the end of his reign, Gardiner;
Bonner, and others regained, by their artful conduct,
much influence : they managed to overthrow and
destroy Lord Cromwell, the friend oflibeml measures;
~d to restore almost every attribute of popery, but
the pope himself;-if even that could be said, for
they had only abjured an Italian, and got an English
one-Pope Henry VIII. ·
When Henry took the ecclesiastical power into
hill own hands, nothing could be more despicable
than the sycophancy and subserviency of the clergy.
There was but one bishop, Fisher of Rochester, who
refu.sed to take the oath of supremacy-and for this
he was beheaded, with Sir Thomas More.• The rest,
• Sir Tbomaa More is one of the most signal instances in all
history of the inconsistency of human nature. He was the glory
of the age in which he lived, for his brilliant genius, his refined
lrit, and his i11tegrity of miod,-Ae would rather lose his head than
ti!" awro'bation of h~ COilliCie-. Yet this mao was at ODCtl a
declauner;agaiost persecutio,, and a bloody persecutor himself.
1~ . his character of Lord Chancellor and Pnvy Counsellor, he
wits ex-cessively severe upon those who came before him for
•io!ation of the king's Bloody Statute, and ~en had poor Bah1t011
~~ bia own .house, anjl tbet'!l wllip.P"d and tortured him with ,bQ
C?:>"Jl hand, because he could not persuade him by teaGOning .$0
al~er · his opinions. lf we could believe that this resulted frolll
his s~a!ing in the dark~~:.ess of th~ age,. from not comprehendio!
IW-Qivme law oholBI'!Itton; we m1gbt.p1ty and lament; but whee
PltlESTCJtAPT
tllough they were as hostile to the change as possible,
as full of popish bigotry as ever, satisfied themselves
with giving all the oppositipn they could to the
spread of real reformation amongst the people. They
voted, indeed, in parliament against the bill for
investing the king with the power of choosing the
bishops, and cutting off all payments, to the pope ;
but after it passed, they tbok care to sign it, accord-
ing to the custom of those times. They would
gladly have stirred up a rebellion, could they have
hoped to see it succeed; and hence arose the Pil-
grimage of Grace, and the insurrections to whieb I
have already alluded; but the summary measures of
the king, the execution of More and Fisher, and of
three friars and a monk of the Carthusian order, and
three monks of the Charter-house, beside the un-
ceremonious attainder of numbers without any trial,
struck terror into them, and quieted them for a time.
Their sycophancy was the more remarkable, in
that Gardiner, Bonner, and others of those bloody
monsters, subscribed and recommended, along with
we tum to his own writio~, and there behold what clear, what
philosophical, what christian views of the truth he had, We are
filled with the profoundest wonder. In his Utopia, which be
wrote when about thirty-four years of age, he abewa ua that he
aaw completely through popery. At page 21, he calla the.abboa.
"holy men, who thought it not enough to live at their own - .
and to do no good to the public, but re!IOived to do it burt i.Ja.
atead of good." He was the friend of Erumu, and ridiculed
the monks and friua u cn~elly u he did mhia caaatie " Collo-·
quiea." He makes Utopiana worahip no beiiJI bot God ; p11t till
images out of their churches ; choo~e their own priests, who are
independent of all bishops, and exercise no authority over their
Socia escept to exclude wicked members. He n!presents them
decreeing tile tnOif perfoct ~ to ewry -nte -.up--~
vilere lie would; that men m1ght be persuaded, but 110t ~
cuted for their religion. P. 191. How ia aucb a fall from IUs.
philoaophy to his practice to be explained, except by the contagi-
on wpirit of penecuting r.eal1
Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
the archbishops, seveateen other bishops, forty
abbots, various deans and prebendaries, and the
lower house of convocation, that remarkable book,
"The Institution of a Christian Man," called the
Bishops' Book, because it was drawn up by several
of them; a work which maintains, that there are but
two orders of the clergy; that no bishop has scrip-
tural authority over another; that no church shall be
consecrated to any being but God; and that we are
justified by the merits and salvation of Christ: the
very doctrines for which these very men imprisoned,
hanged, and burnt such numbers, and made such
havoc amongst honest people in the succeeding reign
qf Mary.
But it may readily be supposed what sort of a
refonnation it was, while the old papal canons were
retained, with a royal discretion in their administra-
tion; while such a man as King Henry VIII. framed
the articles of the church himself-amongst which,
transubstantiation, auricular confession, and worship
of image~~ and saints, are conspicuous: while the
parochial livings were filled with ignorant friars and
monks, who had been turned out of their convents,
in order to save government the forty-five shillings
whieh had been stipulated to be given to every such
friar and monk at the dissolution of their houses;-
monks so ignorant, that they could not read a
syllable; and so habitually luxurious, that, says
Giraldus Cambrensis, " the monks of St. Swithin's
eame in a body to complain to Henry, that his com•
Jilissioners had reduced their fare till there was no
living. Henry inquired into this lamentable reduc-
tion, and found that they bad been accustomed at
dinner:to thirteen dishes, and the commissioner had
reduced them' to ten: on which Henry exclaimed,
with his usual oath-' By God's teeth! my good
· PIUESTCRAP'l'
fellows, he hath left you too many ; for I mylielf
have but three !" There is also a letter from these
same commissioners, preserved in the Bodleian
Library, in which they give an account of the good
abbot of Maiden Bradley, who told them, in perfecit
simplicity of heart, that he had brought up a large
family of children, and settled them all well in the
world, except one daughter, whom he hoped soon to
portion off advantageously with abbey revenue; and
who thanked God especially, that he had never
tneddled with married women, but always maids,
and the fairest he could find, and afterwards got
them well wedded! Such were the men put into tt.l
pulpits of this singularly reformed church ; and S'lleh
is the manner in which the alliance of state and
church has always 'bperated ; the policy of the fonrier
poisoning the very fountain-springs of the latter's
existence.
Edward VI., as I have already observed, was well
disposed, but he was only a child; and Cranmer and
Ridley, with a few privy-counsellors, taking advan-
tage of the Act of Supremacy passed by Henry VIII.
proceeded to model a religious establishment aceotd-
ing to their own notions; and how unfit they were
to organize a christian church, must be app8Nftt
from the circumstance of the spirit of persecution
eYen to the death, being alive in them. Cranmel' in
a manner compelled the boy-king to sign tile death-
warrant of Joan Boeher, who did it after DJ"Geb re-
sistance and remonstrance, with tears, and ·BByiag
that if it were wrong, Cranmer must answer it·ito
God. As Cranmer had been·concerned in the ·bum-
:ing of Llmlbert and Ann Askew, a beautiful ed
Witty woman, of noble descent, who gave theta a
. Tery striking test for the real presence m the lllal-
lowed bread, ·telling them to put ·it in ·a bor llilr a
, . ,,Coogle
JN ALL- AQBB.
~ht, and they would then see,-if it were
mouldy, they might be very sure there was no God
in it; so he now proceeded to burn this poor woman;
...d two years afterwards Van Paris, or Pare, as
Burnet calls him, a Dutchman. He and his col-
leagues were doubtless well-intentioned men, for
they afterwa'(ds testified their sincerity in their own
blood; but they had been nurtured in the cruel faith
of papacy, and were far enough from having truly
leamed the merciful gospel of Christ. So little bad
tbey advanced out of the Romish darkness when they
.began to legislate for Christianity, that they stifHy
persecuted the venerable Hooper, because he could
Dl;}t- consent to wear the popish canonical robes, on
.hia installation into the bishopric of Gloucet~ter.
-Rather than wear those copes, and tippets, and
rochets, which afterwards occasioned so much suffer-
ing, he would have declined the bishopric ; but, no!
-he must both be a bishop, and wear those abharred
robes ; and till he consented, was harassed, menaced,
and finally imprisoned. So miserable was the pro-
gress made in real reformation in this boasted reign,
t.hat, after all their alterations, neither the king, ~e
bilhops, nor the people, were satisfied with their
_haodhvorks~ Bullinger told the exiles at Frankfort,
.:that " Cranmer had drawn up a book of prayers, a
lnwdred times more perfect than the one then used;
;but that it could not be introduced, for the ar{!Jt·
-·~shop was matched with such a wicked clergy and
-. ~()Jlvocation, and other enemies." The celebrawd
: ~~car, divinity professor at Cambridge, drew-up-~d
-riW~ented- to the king, at his own par~icular re~u~st,
IJ~:work containing a plan of ecclesiastical_reiOnJ!11in
r; -..hj.q~ he contended, that " the old pop~ h~ts
.WJould be laid aside ; that .godfathers ~houlij -•-
ACt
c ww.e~: jn the children's n~e ~ WllP.~~ ~ir.-:~W.R-;
206 PRI£8TCRAPT
that bishops should confise themselves strictly to
their spiritual functions ; that some should have
coadjutors, and all a council of presbyters-an ex-
cellent suggestion; that there should be rural bishops
set over every twenty or thirty parishes, who should
often gather their clergy together, and inspect them
closely; and that a provincial synod should meet
twice a year ; when a secular man, in the king'a
name, should be appointed to observe their pro-
ceedings."
Here was a plan of strict discipline, likely to keep
the clergy in order. The book made a great im-
pression on the king's mind,-as may be seen by
remarks on it, left in his own hand-writing; but he
was already sinking in health, and it never was pro-
ceeded in; although Cranmer both approved it, and
exceedingly disliked the plan of convocations now
established. Mary succeeded, and deluged the
country with protestant blood; and those priests who
had pretended conversion to keep their livings, now
fell back to avowed popery, and became terrible
persecutors ; especially bishop Bonner, one of the
most sanguinary wretches in history-who, with the
characteristic selfishness of all tyrants, when confined
in the Tower in Edward's reign, for his insolent
intractability, sent this message to his servants, that
" he gave them to the devil, the devil, and all the
devils, if they did not send him plenty of pears and
puddings;" a man who now thrust the best spirits
of the age into his coal-hole, and tortured them in
his own house, with a fiendish delight in agoDiea
scarcely to be paralleled by the worst of Spallisb
inquisitors.
Elizabeth followed, and filled all men with hopea '
soon to be lamentably disappointed. In her ci'ril
governm.e11t she was prudent, bold, and succeuful;
IN ALL AGES. 20T
though too hanh for a female sovereign ; but in reli-
gion she was one of the most intolerable of tyrants.
The whole reign of this queen, of glorious memory,
exhibits but one continued attempt to crush all
reformation. In truth she was a thorough papist,
and actually sent an ambassador to the pope, on her
aceession to the throne, to treat for the restoration
of .EDgland to the mother church; but the pontiff as-
sumed such lofty language on the occasion, and talked
so largely of her unconditional submission to his
patemal authority, and of receiving her as an erring
but repentant child, that it touched her haughty spirit,
and abe broke off the negotiation. She was a true
daughter of Henry VIII. and could not bear the idea
of surrendering that precious supremacy, which he
assumed, and transmitted to ·her. As with him, so
it was with her, not a question of religion, but of
personal power. In her hands the bishops were the
most passive, non-resisting slaves. Every one is
familiar with her message to one of them-" I made
you, and, if you do not obey, by God, I will unfrock
you!" What she ordered, however contrary to their
consciences or wills, they dared not, for the life of
them, oppose. Dean Colet, being once appointed to
preach before the convocation, in one of the most
remarkable sermons ever delivered, exposing and
coademning the whole system of a state church in
uDCOmpromising terms, said-" The church is dis-
graced by the secular employment in which many
priests and bishops involve themselves; they are the
sei'Vants of men more than of God ; and dare neither
say·nor do anything but as they think it will be ac-
ceptable and pleasant to their princes;" so it was now.
There were a few, however, who ought to be excepted
frcm this charge-sw:h were Parker and Grindal,
who offered the quean's displeasure in consequence.
208 PIUESTCRAPT
-Parker would fain have declined the primacy, and
pleaded strenuously his unfitness, both from age,
need of mental quiet, and from bodily infirmities,
but, as in Hooper's case, the office was forced upon
him. Other good men, whose talents and piety had
rendered them illustrious, kept out of the way of
the court as much as possible, to avoid being put
into biehoprics, which they regarded as not founded
in the spirit of the gospel. Parkhurst, returning
from Zurich, in 1559, got quietly down to his living
in Gloucestershire, and zealously entreated all his
influential friends to get him excused when the
bishopric of Norwich was offered him, but he was
compelled to accept it. Sampson refused a bishopric,
writing to liis friend Peter Martyr, that "he could
not think it lawful to swear to the queen as supreme
head of the church under Christ. He thought, like-
wise, that the want of discipline made that a bishop
could not do his duty. The whole method of elect-
ing bishops was totally different from the primitive ·
institution. The consent of the clergy or people
was not so much as asked." The worthy old apo-
logist Jewel, in a letter to his friend Simler, congra-
tulated himself on his nomination to a see, with the
" hope that our bishops will be made pastors, la-
bourers, and watchmen. And that they may be the
better fitted for this, the great riches of the bishopllics
are to be diminished, and to be reduced to a certain
mediocrity; that so, being delivered from that king-
like pomp, and the noisiness of a court family, they
may live in greater tranquillity, and have more lei-
sure to take care of Christ's flock." In another
letter, he earnestly denounces those popish vestments
retained in the church, calls them habits of the stage,
and says a good cause does not need them ; but that
ignorant priests, stupid as logs of wood, having nei-
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 209
ther learning, spirit, nor go<!d life to commend them,
seek to recommend themselves by that comical habit;
and wishes that these things may be taken away, and
extirpated to the deepest roots. Such was the per-
nicious scheme of church government settled by
Elizabeth, and which has continued to this time, to
be lauded by the interested of this age as beauty and
perfection itself-a scheme which, while it drove
away, or compelled, with reluctance, into its service,
such men as Jewel, Parkhurst, and Grindal, was
just to the taste of the time-serving and venal.
Elizabeth, however, regarding neither scruples on
the one hand, nor greediness on the other, proceeded,
without parliament or convocation, to decree, rescind,
install, or depose dignitaries at pleasure-having no
idea of the liberty of any conscience buther own. She
had Edward's forty-two articles revised and reduced
to thirty-nine, as they now stand; bringing them as
near to popery as possible, and expecting every one
to conform entirely to them. She declared that she
did not want to look into people's hearts ;-they
might think as they pleased ; but they should out-
wardly, and in all points, conform to her plan; with
her, hypocrites and good subjects were synonimous!
Whoever dared to differ in doctrine, or rites, she
visited with the utmost severity. The distress this
produced, was general and extreme. Numbers of
worthy clergymen were expelled from their livings,
and they and their families brought to ruin. They
were fined and imprisoned, and that to death. By a
survey made in 1585 and 1586, it appeared that out of
nearly 10,000 parishes, there were but 2000 which had
ministers; the rest bad been driven from their pul-
pits by her arbitrary and sanguinary laws, and those
who remained were notorious papists, or men so
ignorant that they could not preach, but were obliged
*P
210 PRIBSTCB.AFT
to have homilies frame<! for them to read-many or
them common mechanics, ordained because better
could not be had. The people prayed and petitioned
earnestly for preachers-the bishop of Bangor having
but two in all his diocese ; and when archbishop
Grindal ventured to urge her to comply with the
desires of her subjects~ she told him it was good to
have but few preachers,-three or fo\U' in a county
were·sufficient. She herself seldom attended preach-
ing, though she did prayers. She was averse to the
spread of education, thinking it made the people less
submissive. The universities were in an·equally low
condition. There were few able and learned men in
them, but the majority of professorships were filled
by ignorant and indolent papists. Thus were all the
noble souls of this great country cast at the feet of
one woman, who maintained with a feverish asperity,
her absolute prerogative over the understand.
consciences, and persons of every creature. Did any
one print a pamphlet which in the most distant man-
ner reflected on the then state of things, or breathed
a freer sentiment, she speedily sent forth an order to
bring in all those books and bum them, and happy
was the author if be escaped a good sound fine and
severe imprisonment. Did a member of parliament
venture on a bold expression, his fate was the 83Dle.
Privilege of parliament was utterly extinguished.
The Commons, in 1571, ventured to represent to her
the wofullack of preachers, and to implore her to see
that better instruction was provided for the people,
but she broke it up without taking any notice of the
petition. In the next session they ventured to touch
on the subject of church ceremonies, and framed two
bills to regulate them; but she quickly sent them
word that those matters belonged exclusively to her,
and desired diem to give up ·the two bills to her,
Coogle
JN ALL AGES, 211
which they did in the mos.t humble manner. In
1579, the House passed a vote that the members
should, on a certain day, attend Temple church and
hear preaching and prayers for the preservation of
the Queen and the realm ; which she no sooner heard
of than she sent, by her vice-chamberlain, to let them
know " that she did much admire at so great rash-
ness in that bouse, as to put in execution such a pro-
ject without her privity and pleasure first made known
to them." Whereupon the house humbly acknow-
ledged its offence, and craved forgiveness.
She exacted the same passive obedience from the
bishops. Sandys, when bishop of Worcester, ven-
tured to advise her to take down a crucifix with the
Virgin and St. John, from her chapel, but she
threatened to deprive him ; and when Grindal re-
fused to put in execution some of her arbitrary laws
against the clergy, and went so far as to tell her that,
though a mighty queen, she was accountable to
God; and that without offence to God, their ministry
could not be suppressed ; her wrath was so violent,
that by an order from the Star Chamber she eon-
fined him to his house, suspended him from his
archepiseopal functions, threatened to deprive him,
and, in spite of his submission, continued his seques-
tration till the year before his death ; never after
liking him.
The Star Chamber and High Commission Court
were the great instruments of her inflictions on her
suffering people ; and sad would be the list of her
victims, could we afford to detail them. In one year
she deprived one hundred parish clergymen ; and at
the same time that she paseed a law, fining every
person who absented himself from his parish church
twenty pounds a month, such was the dearth of
preachers that in many places there was not service
•p2
"'Coogle
212 PIUESTCRAFT
dorte for twenty miles round. Hume blames the
non-conformists for not setting up separate congre-
gations. But what were they to do? Had they
withdrawn from their parish church, the enormous
penalty would have fallen upon them, as it did
on thousands. Let us select a few instances of the
treatment of her subjects, from the mass.
Mr. Cartwright, fellow of Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, was a profound scholar and most popular
preacher, so 'much so, that his lectures drew large
crowds of students ; and when he preached at St.
Mary's, they were forced to take down the windows.
In his lectures he attacked certain blemishes of the
English hierarch;y, and insisted, especially, that the
names and functions of archbishops and archdeacons
ought to be abolished, as having no foundation in
scripture : that bishops and deacons ought to be re-
duced to the apostolical institution ; the bishops to
teach, and the deacons to take care of the poor.
That the church should not be governed by bishops,
chancellors, or officials of the archdeacons, but every
church by its own minister and presbyters; every
minister to have charge of one certain flock; every
bishop to be chosen by the church, and not by the
state. For these doctrines he was speedily deprived
·of his fellowship, and expelled the university.
Wbitgift undertook to refute his opinions ; and a
long and strenuous controversy was the result ;
Whitgift obtaining by the defence of the political
creed, wealth, honour, and bishoprics- poor Cart-
wright, poverty, houseless wanderings, vexations,
and imprisonment, from his prosperous antagonist.
One clergyman was imprisoned till he died, for
omitting some passages of the marriage service, and
form of baptism ; and in 1575, eleven Dutch Ana-
baptists were condemned to be burnt, nine of whom
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. il3
were banished, and two underwent their sentence in
Smithfield. In 1578, John Stubbs, a student of
Lincoln's Inn, published a tract called the Gaping
Gulph, shewing the danger of the projected marriage
of the queen with the Duke of Anjou, a papist.
Elizabeth quickly laid hold on him, his printer, and
publisher, and sentenced them in her wrath to have
their right hands cut off, which was publicly done
upon a scaffold in Westminster, by driving a cleaver
through the wrist with a mallet. What would our
authors and publishers say to this sort of treatment
now-a-days? Copping and Thacker, for spreading.
the tracts of the Brownists, were also, some time
after, put to death, after long and severe imprison-
ment, with many of their friends.
The lords of the council were so much disgusted
with the cruelties practised by the bishops, that they
wrote to the primate and bishop of London, saying,
" they had heard of sundry complaints out of divers
counties, of proceedings against the clergy ; some
deprived, and others suspended, by them and their
officials, but had delayed writing them, in hopes
their lordships would have staid their hasty proceed-
ings; but they were compelled to do it now, hearing
of great numbers of zealous and learned preachers
being ejected from their cures in Essex ; and that no
service of any kind was done in many of those
parishes ; in others, it was performed by persons
notoriously unfit, being ignorant, chargeable with
enormous crimes, as drunkenness, filthiness of life,
gaming, haunting of alehouses, etc., against whom
110 proceedings were taken." With this they sent a
list of worthy persons deprived, and one of vicious
persons continued, and a third of pluralists and non-
residents-people as common in that day as this ;
being the peculiar growth of the system. The pre-
214 PRlESTCRAFT
lates took no notice of this remonstrance; but went
on persecuting the good, and winking at the bad.
The magistrates of Essex ventured to make a simi-
lar expostulation, but only got themselves into
trouble: the people generally petitioned, but in vain.
What was to be hoped from these bishops may well
be imagined from this circumstance.-His lordship
of London, before his preferment, published a book,
thus addressing the hierarchy : " Come off, ye
bishops ; away with your superfluities; yield up
your thousands ; be content with hundreds, as they
•be in other reformed churches, where be as great
learned men as you are. Let your portion be priest-
like, and not prince-like. Let the queen have the
rest of your temporalities and other lands, to main-
tain the wars which you procured, and to build and
found schools in every parish ; that every parish may
have its preacher, to live honestly, and not pom-
pously, which will never be till your lands be dis-
persed, and bestowed upon many, which now feed
and fatten but one." When he was, in his palmy
days of bishophood, reminded of this, he replied,
"When I was a child, 'I thought as a child, I spoke
as a child ! " A more striking instance cannot be
found of the satanic influence of a political religion
on the weakness of human nature.
But I must hasten on. Most of the prisons were
now filled with non-conformists, fifty-six being com-
mitted at one time. "In these dungeons," says their
historian, "they died like rotten sheep," from hun-
ger, cold, and the noisome state of the prisons ;
and three of their ministers, Barrow, Greenwood, and
Penry, were executed at Tybum with peculiar cir-
eumstances of severity. The two former were taken
and placed under the gallows, to see if the terrors of
death would not appal them ; but that not being the
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
case, they were remanded for some time, and then
brought out ·and hanged. The latter was hurried
away unexpectedly from his dinner, and dispatched
with a frightful haste.
By these atrocities, misery was spread through the
country, and ignorance, in an equal degree, for where
the honest pastors were turned out, who were to take
their places but the low and unprincipled? Thou-
aands fled to the continent, from the iron hand of this
reforming queen : spies from the spiritual courts were
everywhere watching the ministers, if they deviated
in the least from the prescribed mode of worshipping
the image of uniformity which this she-Nebuchad-
nezzar had aet up ; and the people, if they ·had
absented themselves from church, were noted, and
summoned into these courts, the ruinous penalties
laid on them, and, in default of their payment, they
were cast into prison. The messengers of the High
Commission Court had thirty-three shillings and four
pence for forty-one miles, so that they looked out vigi-
lantly for business ; and nothing but the preserving
power of God could have left alive a remnant of the
faithful. Burnet, the church's own historian, closes
his account of this reign with sad regret for the
crushing of true reformation, and- endeavours to
console himself and readers with the hope of a better
state of things in heaven! Tbe queen obtained
credit abroad for sending to Scotland and to the con-
tinent, aid to the protestants ; but her chief motive
waa thepoliticalinftuencethis gave her;-at home she
was one of the most implacable enemies to the free-
dom of conscience. Such was this nursing-mother
of the English church ; and then came 1ames I.
This poor man, whom the servile bishops of his
court cried up as a second Solomon, had been edu-
cated by the celebrated George Buchanan, who h!Ul
216 PRIESTCRAPT
11tuffed him out with musty Latin, as his tailor had
done with padding and quilting till he assumed the
shape of a man, deplorable as it was. A more
empty, silly, talking, self-satisfied, vaunting, and
despotic creature never sate upon a throne. Bishop
Burnet says " he was the scorn of the age ; a mere
pedant, without true judgment, courage, or steadi-
ness ; his reign being a continual course of mal-
practices." .While in Scotland, he addressed the
General Assembly, and thanked God that he was
the head of the best and purest kirk in the world,
making sad comparisons against the English esta-
blishment, " with its ill-sung mass, wanting nothing
of popery but the liftings;'' and declaring that to hit
death he would stand by his own kirk. But, when
he arrived in England, the bishops, with their servile
obeisance ; their kneeliugs before him ; their rank
flatteries ; their listening with affected admiration to
every word that he spoke, soon produced a marvel•
lous change; and be thanked God as fervently, that
he was king where the church knew how to reverence a
king. The bishopswere delightedwith their discovery.
They had trembled at the apprehension of a presby-
terian king ; and they found they had got a weak,
conceited boaster, who, by adulation, was ready to
be the creature of their extremest will. They made
him the most contemptible of tyrants. It is humi-
liating to hear his continual boastings of the omni-
potence of kingship : " As God can make and kill in
his creation, so can a king in his kingdom ;" this was
his fa\"ourite language to his parliament. Thebishops
having prepared their puppet of a king so well that
he was continually uttering the cuckoo-note-" no
bishop, no king," prevailed upon him to call a con-
ference between them and the puritan divines; where
be thundered out his displeasure against the latter,
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 217
and declared he would " make them confonn, or he
would harry them out of the land, or worse," and the
prelates took care that he did not forget his promise.
They laboured to inspire him with the opinion of
his absolute power, a belief to which he was prone
enough of himself. In the Hampton Court confer.:.
ence, Whitgift, who had figured as the prime perse..
cutor of Elizabeth's reign, was so delighted at the
king's approbation of the ex officio oath of the High
Commission Court, that he exclaimed, "Undoubtedly,
your majesty spoke by the special assistance of God's
spirit!"
Bancroft became archbishop of Canterbury, one of
the basest sycophants that ever wore a mitre ; what·
Neale calls "a perfect creature of the prerogative,
and a declared enemy of the religious and civil liber-
ties of his country." Under his superintendence tbe
book of canons, now in force, revised and enlarged
from those of Edward VI. and Elizabeth, passed the
two houses of convocation. By these canons it is
provided that whoever shall speak against the ThirtyM
nine Articles, or against the established mode of
church government, shall be excommunicated, and
not restored, except by the archbishop; and whoever
shall separate from the church to fonn any new bro-
therhood, shall be excommunicated, and by no means
be restored; that is, he should, at that time Qfday, be
put out of the benefit of all law ; and subjected to
all manner of injuries and injustice. If a barrister
presumed to plead for him, he was himself, as
in the case of Nicolas Fuller, immediately shut up
in prison for life. A member of parliament even
alluding in his speech, to the sufferings of the people,
James was so highly offended that he immediately
dissolved the house, and was advised by Bancroft
and his servile associates, to do without a parliament.
Coogle
218 l"RlESTCB.APT
A more utter state of slavery cannotbe imagined than
this,ill which a man might neither speak a wordagainst
anythiBg in the chur:ch, nor withdraw himself quietly
from it ; the subject was gagged and bound, and
reduced to something worse than an automaton.
The coRsequence was, that the non-conformists were
persecuted with such bitter eruelty, that they ded iR
crowds to H11Rand and Germany, as in the last reign;
and DOW also mlarge companies to America.
In 1611, lames burnt two men for heretics;
Bartholomew Legate, in Smithfield, and Edmund
Wightman, at Lichfield. A third was to have
shared the same fate, but the people expressed so
.strong a feeling on the subject, that it was thought
better to let him lie for life in prison.
ln 1617, he went to Scotland, and there pro-
oeeeded to aggravate the evil of episcopacy, which he
had indicted on that country in 1606, telliDg the
parliament and general assembly, that it was " a
special prerogative of kings, with their bishops, &o
order the church as they thought fit; and sirs," said
be, "for y:our approving, or disapproving, deceive
not yourselves. I will not have my reason op-
posed." So he went on to suspend, deprive, and
banish, whoever did oppose him, as he had done
here. Having finished this work to his kingly sati,a-
faction, he returned home, and adopting the doe-
trine of .Arminianism, made it a fresh ·cause against
many of the clergy and people, who were disciples or
Calvin ; and, as if this were not enough of royal folly
and inconsistency, he endeavoured to marry bia IOD
Charles to a popish princess. As the foolish old maa
ciespised any match for his son less than·the daughter
of a king, he entered into treaty for the Infanta of
Spain ; and, to effect its accomplishment, submitted
to make the youth •wear that the children reiUltbag
IN ALL AGES. 219
from the marriage should be educated in popery till
thirteen years of age, and that he himself would, as
often as the Infanta desired it, listen to popish per-
suasions for his own conversion. When the match
was happily broken off, the hypocritical old fellow
declared that nothing did he detest so much as
popery ; and that all this was but an experiment of
his kingcra.ft ! A son thus educated in despotism
and duplicity ; thus taught to regard all human laws
as subject to his fiat, and all conscience as a farce,
might be expected to inflict misery on the realm, if
he did not experience it himself; but he did both.
The sins of the father fell heavily upon him. As for
James himself, like Hezekiah, the evil did not come
in his day. The parliament and people had both
been so smitten with the iron hand of Henry and
Elizabeth, that they were like a pack of beaten
hounds ; they dared not for their lives resist the most
arbitrary act; they crouched and trembled, and
obeyed. But the weakness of the Stuarts did not
escape national observation; the ass was discerned
through the gaps of the lion's skin, in which be
had wrapped himself; the spirit of the people re-
vived, and in Charles's reign shewed itself with an
upect of terrible retribution. Wealth, population,
commerce, and intelligence, spite of all obstacles,
had been on the increase ; the civil government of
Elizabeth h8d been politic and successful. The
Bible, too, 'had been secretly working a mighty revo-
lution in the popular mind. In the troubles and
sufferings, which kings and priests had inflicted, it
had been the secret and precious companion : its
poetry, the most magnificent; its maxims, the most
profound; its promises, the most momentous in the
world, were not lost on the human heart : its doctrines
became more clearly understood; and the spirit of
. ,,Coogle
220 l'RIESTCB.AFT
man rose with its dignifying knowl~. An awful
path was before Charles. He was moulded to des-
potism, and the people to its reeistance. The people
had become conscious of their strength. Charles,
blinded by his royal education, perceived not that
consciousness : - he therefore proceeded with the
temerity of a man who has one day crossed a frozen
lake, and the next advances upon the ice without
observing that it has thawed in the night, and is
lost. He acted with a more fatal, because a more
solemn wilfulness, than his father had done nnder
very different circumstances; and at his right hand
soon stood a high priest and counsellor, most admi-
rably fitted to hasten and make sure his ruin-thia
was Laud.
There had been an ascent in prelatieal evil through
Parker, Whitgift, and Bancroft-Laud completed the
elimax. Charles trod in the steps of his father-
Laud marched far beyond the track of his predeces-
sors with a daring hardihood, more haughty and
cruel than they ever reached. Every one is familiar
with their deeds and their fate, and therefore I shall
but glance at them. In Scotland, Charles proceeded
to complete the work which his father had begun, of
bringing the kirk to conformity with the English
church. Laud had filled him with a lofty idea of the
glory to be derived from this labour; stirred him up
to go there in person ; attended him there ; and to-
gether, king and priest produced such a storm of
popular resentment as prepared the way for the de-
struction of both these tyrannical men. When the
dean of faculty began to read the new liturgy in SL
Giles's church, the people assailed him with such
violence, that it was with difficulty the provosts and
bailiffs of the city could rescue him and the bishop
from their hands. Jenny Geddes, an old woman, at
IN ALL AGES, 221
nearly the first words of the liturgy uttered, flung
a stool at the dean's head, crying, " a pape! a pape!"
and the whole congregation followed her example
with hideous noises, and clapping of hands, while
the populace without thundered at the doors, and
sent showers of stones through the windows. The
whole town and country were in a ferment; and it
did not end till the general assembly had condemned
the Icing's measures, and put down the bishops.
Charles prepared to resent this, and to enforce his
scheme with arms : but here again the spirit of the
Scots was too much for him. They compelled him
to retreat before them; followed him over the border,
and obliged him to treat with them at Ripon, and to
call a free parliament in England, where the matter
should be decided. To what humiliation the priests
had brought him! It was they who had inflated his
silly old father with such notions of kingly despo-
tism ; they it was who had contaminated both father
and son with their pernicious doctrines; who had set
them upon this work of reducing their own country
to the slavery they had effected in England;-history
therefore does not present a more luminous fact than
this-to priestcraft Charles became a fearful victim,
and the whole realm suffered risk with him.
In England his conduct was exactly of the same
character. Those of his bishops who were inclined
to be moderate, were disgraced and banished from
their sees. Abbot, the primate, a good man, was
suspended for refusing to license a sermon eulogising
the doctrine of passive obedience and non-resistance.
Williams, bishop of Lincoln, was treated in a similar
manner; whereas Montague and Manwaring, for
preaching up the royal prerogative against the peo-
ple's rights, were promoted to bishoprics, in defiance
of parliament, which had voted them incapable of any
222 PRIESTCRAFT
ecclesiastical preferment ; and Sibthorpe, whose ser-
mon Abbot would not license, was made prebendary
of Peterborough, and rector of Burton Latimer, in
Wiltshire. Davenant, bishop of Salisbury, Dr.
Burgess, Dr. Prideaux, and others, were harassed
because they did not preach exactly to the king's
mind, but Dr. Leighton was treated in a manner that
could only have been expected from savages. He
had published a pamphlet calk:d "Zion's Plea
against Prelacy,'' wherein he had shewn the bishops
their own likeness, telling them that " they were
men of blood ; and that there never was a greater
persecution, nor higher indignities done to God's
people, in any nation, than in this, since the death
of Elizabeth. That prelacy was notoriously anti-
Christian, and that the church had the laws from the
scripture, not from th.e king ; for no king can make
laws for the house of God." This was sure to raise
all the prelatical fury. Accordingly they soon bad
him in the High Commission Court, and condemned
him to prison for Ufe; to pay a fine of ten thou&arul
pounds ; to be degraded from his ministry ; 11Jhif1Fd;
set on the pillory ; have one of his ears cut off; ou
side of ltis nose slit ; and to be brandedon the forehead
with a double S. S., for a sower of sedition; then to be
carried back to prison, and, after a few day1, be piJ..
loried again ; whipped ; have the other side of hil
noSB slit ; the other ear cut off; and shut up ;,. hil
dungeon, to be released only by death.
Laud pulled off his cap when this merciless sen-
tence was pronounced, and gave God thanks for it!!
All this was inflicted on this learned lind excellent
man, formerly professor of moral philosophy in the
university of Edinburgh ; and when, on the sitting
of the long parliament, he sent in his petition for his
release, the whole house was moved to tears by the
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 223
recital of those sufferings which priests had infticted
and rejoiced in. They were thus expressed. "That
he was apprehended coming from a sermon, by a
high commission warrant, and dragged along the
atreets with bills and staves to London House. That
the gaoler of Newgate clapped him in irons, and
carried him, with a strong power, into a loathsome
and zn1.serable dog·hole, full of rats and mice, that
had no light but a little grate ; the roof being unco·
vered, so that the snow and rain beat upon him, and
where he had no bed, or place for fire, but a ruinous,
old, smoky chimney. In this woful place he was
shut up fifteen weeks, nobody being suffered to come
to him. That the fourth day after his commitment,
the pursuivant, with a mighty multitude, came to
his house to search for Jesuit's books, and used his
wife in such a barbarous and inhuman manner, as he
was ashamed to express. That they rifted every
person and place ; holding a pistol to the heart of a
child of five years old, threatening to kill him if he
did not discover the books ; broke open chests,
presses, boxes; carried every thing away, even
household stuff, apparel, arms, etc. That, at the
end of fifteen weeks, he was served with a subprena,
on an information laid against him by the attorney·
general, whose dealing with him was full of cruelty
and deceit. That he was then so sick that his phy~
sician thought he had been poisoned, because all his
hair and skin came off; and that in the height of
this sickness, the cruel sentence was passed upon
him, and executed Nov. 26th, 1630, when he re-
ceived thirty·six stripes upon his naked back, with a
threefold cord, his hand being tied to a stake, and
then stood almost two hours in the pillory, in frost
and snow, before he was branded in the face, his
nose slit, and his ears cut off; after which he was
224 PRIESTCRAJI.T
carried by water to the Fleet ; shut up in a room that
be was never well, and, after eight years, turned into
the common gaol ! ! !"
The treatment of William Prynne, of Dr. Bast--
wick, and Mr. Burton, is known to every body; for
Prynne being an eminent lawyer, and Bastwick a
physician, the indignation excited in the members.of
their respective professions, caused their sentence to
become more political in its consequences. Prynne
had written "Histriomastix," a work against plays,
maypoles, church festivals and sports, things of which
the royal family were extremely fond, and which
James, by his "Book of Sports," had encouraged
and made not merely legal, but essential, but which
the puritans conscientiously disapproved, and for the
non-reading of which from their pulpits, many of
their clergy bad been severely handled. This strange
book recommended races, football, dances, archery,
leaping, and various sports in the church-yard, imme-
diately after service, and tippling by the drinking of
church-ales, clerk-ales, etc. : to attack it was there-
fore to attack the church. For writing "so malicious
and dangerous a libel," as the attorney-general styled
it, Prynne was condemned "to have the book bumt
by the common hangman ; to be put from the bar
for ever, and rendered incapable of his profession ;
to be turned out of the society of Lincoln's-Inn; to
be degraded at Oxford ; to stand in the pillory at
Westminster and Cheapside ; to lose both his ears,
one in each place ; to pay a fine of five thousand
pounds, and suffer perpetual imprisonment."
Dr. Bastwick, for his book " Elenchus Religionis
Papisticre," which denied the divine right of bishops.
was discarded from his profession ; excommunicated ;
fined one thousand pounds, and imprisoned till he
chose to recant. Burton, who had been clerk of the
IN ALL AGES. 225
closet to two successive princes of Wales, for pub-
lishing two sermons against Laud's popish innova-
tions in the church, had his study broken open by
the sergeant-at-arms, and was committed to the Gate-
house.
But these stout fellows daring even in prison to
protest against the prevailing tyrannies, and to con-
tend for liberty of religion, were again brought up to
the Star Chamber, and condemned ;-Burton to be
deprived of his living and degraded from his minis-
try, as Prynne and Bastwick had before been from
their professions ·; each to be fined five thousand
pounds ; to be set in the pillory, and have their ears
cut off. Prynne had already lost his ears by the
sentence of the court of 1633; but it was ordered
that the remainder of the stumps should be cut out,
and that he should be branded on each cheek with
the letters S. L. These sentences were all duly exe-
cuted ; the hangman ratlier sawing the remainder of
Prynne's ears than cutting them off, and then they
were sent, under a strong gv.ard, one to the castle of
Launeeston, another to that of Lancaster, and the
third to that of Caernarvon in Wales; but their pri-
sons not being thought distant enough, they were
afterwards removed to the islands of Scilly, Jersey,
and Guernsey, where they were kept without pen,
ink or paper, or the access of their friends, till they
were released by the long parliament.
I have already said that Dr. Williams, bishop of
Lincoln, was ill-treated by this arch-demon Laud ;
but before closing the account of his tyrannies, this
case deserves a few more words. Dr. Williams had
been the strenuous advocate with King James for
the advancement of Laud, who as soon as he got
into the good will of Charles, repaid his benefactor
by getting him removed from all his preferments at
Q*
Coogle
226 PB.IESTCB.AFT
eourt. Williams retired to his diocese, and spent
his time in its duties; but the envy, or some Eimilar
passion of Laud's, followed him there; and having
once in conversation happened to speak well of the
puritan clergy, and 9ensure the king for his treatment
of them, this was carried to court-he was cited
before the high commission, suspended, fined ten
thousand pounds, and committed to the Tower during
the king's p\easure. His house was plundered of
all his rich goods and library, and his private pape11
seized. Amongst these were found two letters from
Mr. Osbaldeston, written five years before, and eoa-
taining some obscure expressions, which Laud coa-
strued to apply to himself. As if it had not been
unwarrantable tyranny enough to ruin the bishop
for words spoken in private conversation-he wu
charged with having by these letters divulged scan-
dalous libels against the king's privy counsellom-
letters he had never put out of his desk, and bad
even forgotten. But proceeding on this their own
violatiqn of all the sacred rights of the subject, of all
privacy, they fined the bishop another eight thou&aDd
pounds, three of them to go to Laud himself. Mr.
Osbaldeston, the writer of the letters, they fined five
thousand pounds to the king, and five tho11B81ld to
Laud, and ordered him to be deprived of all hia
spiritual dignities, imprisoned, pilloried in the deea'a
yard opposite his own school, and to luJJJe hu eware
nailed to the pillory. His ears however were good
enough to save themselves, for not being in custody,
but present in the crowd when the sentence wu
passed, he escaped, and continued to keep in con-
cealment till the sitting of the long parliament, bat
in the meantime all his gooda were seized, and p»o
perty confiscated.
Su~ are a few specimeaa of the innumerable and
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
amazing tyrannies of this king and this priest, which
made all England such a scene of oppression and
misery that a great part of the best subjects fled
out of it, and the rest at length rose in wrath and
destroyed their bloody destroyers.in their turn.
During the Commonwealth arose a singular
people, whose doctrines and conduct marked another
epoch in the advance to the true understanding of
Christianity, and acquirement of its freedom,-this
was the Society of Friends. It will have been
seen that, notwithstanding all that the Nonconform-
ists had suffered, notwithstanding all the great minds
and noble hearts which had appeared among them,
they bad not yet come to perceive the full liberty of
Christ. They objected to certain ceremonies and
habits, and certain religious opinions, but they did
not object at all to the establishment of a state
religion ; many of them even to the episcopal
hierarchy, but were a part of it. The Independents
had made the nearest approach to the apprehension
of perfect freedom ; they had adopted and acted
upon the opinion, that every congregation is inde-
pendent of all others, and that no minister of the
gospel possesses any jurisdiction over another; but
they still admitted the right ofa state establishment,
and under Cromwell accepted office in one. The
Friends not only proclaimed the doctrine, that all
state establishments of Christianity are unscriptural,
but that they violate the political rights of the sub-
ject ; they therefore denounced all usurpation of
human lordshiJ!over conscience ; all hireling teachers
of a state creed ; tithes, church-rates, and every
ecclesiastical demand whatever. To George Fox we
owe this bold and manly system, this sudden leap
from the chains of long spiritual slavery, into the full
". 2
228 PRIESTCRAFT
freedom of the Gospel law,-a man to whom yet
there has never been full justice done beyond the
pale of his own society. I do not assert for him
an exemption from the spirit offanaticism, prevalent
at that time ; both he and his adherents were un-
questionably a good deal touched with it ; but inde-
pendently of this, the theory of his religious belief
comprehended the ideal of all religious freedom.
This I attribute in a great measure to the circum-
stance of his being an unlearned man. Free from
every educational dogma, he became struck with the
importance of religion, and taking the Bible with
him into the fields, he there carefully studied it, and
soon discerned the true nature of this beneficent dis-
pensation ;-that Christianity is a thing so spiritual,
so entirely a gift of God to every man that is bam,
that n·o other man in the shape of king, bishop, or
priest, has a right to come between this divine gift
and the human soul ; consequently, no state religion,
no state priest, no state compulsion for their support
can be justified ; consequently all tithes, church-
rates, Easter offerings, and such things, are anti-
christian, and to be resisted by every constitutional
means. He saw ns clearly that Christianity pro-
claimed the civil freedom of every rational creature;
it enjoined obedience to good government, but dis-
countenanced by its very benevolence and its celestial
maxim, "do to others as thou wouldst be done to,"
all tyranny and slavery. On the same ground, he
was thoroughly satisfied of the nature of that most
fatal of infatuations-war.
Whntever his sagacious min.d once embraced as
truth, he had the integrity and boldness to plQClaim
everywhere. He advanced into the pre11ence of
princes, and declared it there with the same eue lllld
freedom as amongst his own.peers. It may well be
Coogle
iN ALL AGES. 229
imagined, that when members began to flock around
him, as they soon did, and from every class of
society, clergy, soldiers, magistrates, gentlemen, and
men of the general mass ; that his system would
bring down upon him and his followers, the unmiti-
gated vengeance of the persecuting hierarchy. It
was no partially reforming system : it did not object
to this or that dogma, this or that ceremony in the
. state religion, but it assailed, root and branch, state
religion itself. It was a system peculiarly odious to
priests, for it was an entirely disinterested one; for
it went even to declare, that nothing should be
received for preaching when it could be at all dis-
pensed with,-nothing, in any case, without the
voluntary consent of the people. The state clergy
saw, that if it succeeded, priestcraft was gone for
ever ;-royalty, on its restomtion, saw that it would
lop off the right arm of despotism,-a craft, paid to
preach the divine right of kings, and passive obedi-
ence of the people. But Fox and his friends were
prepared to speak, write, and suffer for it. He him-
self traversed great part of the kingdom, visited
America and Holland ; holding immense meetings
in the open air; and addressed many letters to
various princes and people in power, in its behalf.
.Barclay delineated its features in his celebrated
" Apology for the true Christian Divinity;" Penn
wrote boldly for it, and spoke boldly too on his
trials, especially that with William Mead at the Old
Bailey, an account of which has often been reprinted,
as a splendid instance of the vindication of trial by
jury. Anthony Pearson, who had been a justice of
peace, published his "Great Case of Tithes," in
which all the evils and anti-christianity of the tithe
system were duly exposed. Thomas Lawson wrote
" A Mite in the Treasury ; " and " The Call, Work,
PB.IESTORAPT
and Wages, of the Miillsters of Christ and of Anti-
christ ;" two most spirited and able exposition• of
political religion. Elwood wrote his interesting life,
abounding with scenes of imprisonment and patient
endurance for his principles. Besse compiled from
the official documents of the society, the " His-
tory of the Sufferings of Friends ; " a work of
everlasting condemnation to the priests of the chureh
of England ; and Sewell wrote the " History of
the Society '' at large, a work declared by Charles
Lamb, to be worth all ecclesiastical history put
together. In these, and other works, they asserted
those great principles of religious freedom now so
generally adopted ; and for these they suifeted.
Seeing clearly how a royal religion disturbed and
oppressed the real church of Christ; how it neu-
tralized all its benign doctrines, they determined,
cost what it would, to hold no communion with it.
They would neither marry at its altars, nor bury in
its soil ; and for this their dead were tom out of their
graves by the parish priests and their minions ; and
they were not only heavily fined and imprisoned for
their marrying, but their children were declared
bastards. At Nottingham, in 1661, an attempt was
made, by a public trial, to disinherit some orphana on
this ground; but the worthy old judge, Archer,
brought Adam and Eve as precedents, and declared,
that their taking each other in marriage in the preseace
of God was valid, and if those children were bastards
we were all bastards. On this singular decisioa the
marriages of Friends were recognized and made
legal. But bad it been otherwise, such was the
sturdy firmness of the Friends, that they would
have suffered loss of both property and life to the
last man, sooner than concede an iota to this UDjuat
system ; and the whole fury of the executive power
IN ALL AGES. 231
--waa let loose upon them. They were given up a
· -prey to vindictive parsons, and ignorant, priest-
ridden justices of the peace; and to the whole greedy
race of informers, constables, and the lowest of the
.rabble. In 1670, the king issued an order in
council, signed by the Archbishop of Canterbury and
thirteen others, commanding Christopher Wren, Esq.
· to pull down their meeting-house at Horsleydown,
which was done, and the material sold ; the same
was done to Ratcliff meeting-house ; and Peel meet-
ing~house was ransacked, and the doors and windows
carried away. But the Friends still met on the
ruins of those places, where they were assailed by
soldiers, who fell upon them with the but-end of
their muskets, and maltreated them so dreadfully,
that the blood lay in the streets, and several died in
consequence. Old age waa not spared ; the women
in particular were treated with brutal indecency,
and finally, all their places of worship were nailed
up, al1d soldiers set to keep them away. Nothing,
however, could prevent them meeting ; and often,
especially all the hard winter of 1683, they collected
in the streets, and suffered incredible hardships from
the cold, the soldiers, and the mob. They were
ruinously fined under Elizabeth's statute of 20l. a
month. Twenty-eight individuals alone paid 520l.
151. 2d. Their houses were broken open without
ceremony with sledge-hammers and screws, and
their property plundered by wholesale, under the
plea of collecting tithes, church-rates, and fines for
non-attendance at church. One parson declared,
" he would rather see all the Quakers hanged than
lo&e a lizpence bg them.'' For shillings they gene·
rally took pounds, leaving, in many instances, not a
tool, or a piece of goods for a man to pursue his
trade by ; not a horse or a plough for him to work
23,2. PRIE!iTCRAI'T
.his farm with. This one specimen may serve as an
illustration of the general mode.
The fines for non-attendance of church at Bristol, l
for 38 men for eleven months - - S
For two of their wives, for the same time
For 111 men for three months
For 40 of their wives for the same time
£
8,360
220
6,660
1,200
£16,440
By a careful examination of the records of the
society, I find an amount of property taken from
them for these fines, church-rates, tithes, and some
few military demands, but chiefly the former, given
in from 1655 to 1833, of £1,192,820. Besides
this, a great quantity of property was given in with
no value attached to it, which with the utter ruin of
trade, and wanton destruction of the effects of many
families, cannot amount at all to less than one
million and a half-a sum which is still increasing,
from distraints on this small society, at an average of
.l14,000 a year.
The very poorest, even the fatherless children did
not escape this stripping system of the established
priesthood. Amongst thousands of such instances,
take this one. A poor orphan lad of Famsfield, in
Nottinghamshire, Nathaniel Price, whom his friends
had put out apprentice, being taken at a meeting,
and having nothing else to pay his fine, the officers
took away his coat and breeches, four halfpence, his
knife, sheath and scissars. In some instances they
threw away the food of infants, and carried away the
very vessels. Nothing is harder to bear than the
vulgar insolence of low fellows in authority ; and
this the Friends were made to feel in its fulnesa.
These informers, constables, et hoc gen'UI omtte, came
into their houses and did as they pleased. When
the men were in prison, as they were at one time, to
,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 233
the nwnber of 2,500, they came and plundered their
wives ; ohen frightened and abused them and their
children ; put the key of the door in their pockets, so
that they and their tribe had free ingress and egress,
night and day ; and there they eat, drank, and
caroused jovially, declaring they "would eat of the
best, and drink of the sweetest, and those rogues of
~uakers should pay for all !" There was no redress.
A deputation once waited on the Archbishop San-
croft, and complained of such vile rascals being
employed in the service of his church; but he only
replied, " there requires crooked timber to build a
hip "
s •
But what avails attempting to delineate the suffer-
ings of these people for their adherence to the
system of a free gospel, a principle which I trust we
shall live to see triumphant? Their sufferings lasted
for thirty years ; and the simple, and mere matter-of-
fact recital of them, fills two thick folio volumes,
containing upwards of one thousand four hundred
closely printed pages. They con11ist of every imagi-
nable species of outrage and insult, petty vexation
and agonising suffering; confinement in horrible,
pestilential dungeons, as the HoLE in Newgate, which
was the death of numbers ; every species of legal
and illegal plunder ; loss of estates, friends, liberty,
and life itself; such as the same number of English-
men scarcely ever suffered, or suffered with such
invincible firmness. In London they filled the
prisons in suffocating crowds, where, in 1662, twenty
died, and seven more soon after their liberation, in
consequence of their treatment; in 1664 twenty-five
more, and in the following year fifty-two others.
Through the whole kingdom the same inhuman
persecutions were practised ; and the number which
perished under them, as may be seen in Besse, was
234 PRIESTCB.AFT
869. Everywhere their meetings were broken up
by parish priests, with troopers and mobs at their
heels ;. their persons shut up in prison, till scarcely
an adult was at large. At one time, in Bristol, this
was literally the case ; but the very children collected
to meeting, in spite of the beatings and insults of
their persecutors, who struck them in the face, as
they were accustomed to do even the women, whom
it was a favourite plan to drag by the hair of the
head; pinch their arms till black and blue, and prick
them with bodkins apd packing-needles. When all
this would not do, they banished them to the colcmies
and sugar plantations, and sold them for slaves,
where their doctrines soon spread, and persecution
became as hot as at home, especially in Barbadoes
and New England, where monstrous fines, cutting off
ears and hanging, became the order of the day.
After the passing of the Toleration Act, tithes and
church-rates still exposed them to the persecution of
the clergy, who were inclined to shew no mercy,
amongst whom I am sorry to find one of my own
ancestors, Thomas Howitt, rector of Eastwood in
Nottinghamshire. The numbers prosecuted on ~
grounds from 1690 to 1736, were 1180; of whom
302 were imprisoned, and nine died in prison. The
list of these cases exhibits many instances of clerical
rapacity and hard-heartedness, as ;-W. Francis,
confined nineteen months for a groat ; Adam Law-
rence and Elizabeth Vokin, between six and snen
years for nine shillings for both of them ; A. Hen-
derson and son, eleven months for one penny; Thomas
Kipling two years for marriage fees; Israel Fell four
years for one shilling ; Daniel Abraham nearly thrft
years for twenty pence ; John Richards for small
tithes, five years, till he died ; 1ohn Constantine,
flve years for tithe of a little garden; James Biaim,
"" ,,Coogle
lN ALL AGJ:S, 2S5
rzgerl 91, blmtl alld deaf, several months f'or tithes;
Elizabeth Hughes, widow, with ri:& children, sixteen
.months for tithes, pretended to be due from her mother;
Robert Grimes for fifteen shillings, about a year, tiU
ke died ; several others till they died ; Joseph Smith
and Thomas Bird, for a church-rate, eight year1 and
four months; Boswell Middleton for two pounds, five
·years ; and again, four months after his liberation,
two years more for small tithes, etc. etc.
Taking this connected, though brief view of the
sufferings of Friends, has carried us beyond the due
course of the sufferings of the non-conformists in
general. Charles II. on his restoration, renewed all
the persecutions of his bloody race. No adversity
could teach that tyrannic family either wisdom or
mercy ; but it is impossible to wade through the
wide sea of their cruelties till the expulsion of James
II. I shall therefore ouly remind my readers, that
Charles II. renewed the slaughter of the Scotch
Covenanters,· pursuing them to the mountains and
morasses with fire and sword ; enacting all the horrors
of racks, thumb-screws, and the iron boot, as can be
seen nowhere so vividly detailed as in Sir Walter
Scott's "Tales of a Grandfather," and "Old Mor-
·tality,"-and then give this summary from Neale.
" The writer of the preface to Mr. De Laune's Plea
. for the Non-conformists, says, th~t De Laune was
ODe of near EIGHT THOUSAND who had perished in
prison in the reign of Charles II. ; and that merely
{or dissenting from the church in some points for
which they were able to bring good reason. As for
the severe penalties inflicted on them for seditious
and riotous assemblies, designed only for the worship
of God, he adds, that they suffered in their trades
and estates, within the compass of five years, at least
:rwo KILLION&. Another writer adds, that Mr.
, . ,,Coogle
236 . PRI.ESTCB.AFT
Jeremy White had carefully collected a list of the
dissenting sufferers, and of their sufferings, and had
the names of SIXTY THOUSAND PERSONS who bad
suffered on a religious account, between the restora-
tion of Charles II. and the revolution of King
William, FIVE THOUSAND of whom died in prison .. .
It is certain that, besides those who suffered in their
own country, great numbers retired to the plantations
and different parts of America. Many transported
themselves and their effects to Holland, and filled
.the English churches of Amsterdam, the Hague, ete.
If we admit the dissenting families of the several de-
nominations in England to be one hundred and fifty
thousand, and that each family suffered no more than
the loss of three or four pounds per annum, from the
Act of Uniformity, the whole will amount to twelve,
or fourteen millions ; a prodigious sum for those
times. But these are only conjectures. The damage
done to the trade and property of the nation was
undoubtedly immense, and the wounds that were
made in the estates of private families were deep and
large ; many of whom, to my knowledge, wear the
scars of them to this day." Hist. of Puritans, vol. ii.
page 608-9.
The lesson presented by the history of the English
church, since Henry VIII., is most solemnly im-
portant. If all the annals of the world were set
aside, the records of those reigns are enough to
determine a rational people to put down a national
church, as one of the most terrible of the scourges of
the earth ; the most inimical to human rights and
interests. They present one frightful image of kings
and priests united to crush all religious reformation ;
the exercise offree-will, or free understanding; to set
themselves up as sole thinkers and actors for the
whole world ; and prepared, if the multitude refuse
IN ALL AGES. 237
to surrender their reason and faith into their keeping,
to deluge the earth with blood ; to chase the peaceable
from their habitations, and people dungeons with
them and their miseries.
Does the Establishment stand before us and call
herself holy and meek, and beneficent, 'With all these
crimes, all these lives, all this blood and misery on her
head ? Well would it have been for Ireland, well for
England, well for the Episcopalian Church itself, if
someJenny Geddeshad been found, asinEdinburgh,to
launch her three-legged stool at the head ofthe clergy-
man when he began to deal out a state liturgy ; and
had been followed by the simultaneous efforts of the
whole people, to teach kings and priests to respect the
inalienable rights of conscience : but in default of this,
what has been the consequence ? While power was
left to the church, it persecuted and would have
continued to persecute. The act of William III. put
an end to this ; and we must henceforth look for the
spirit of prieatcraft in a different shape. The whole
course of this volume has shewn that this wily spirit
has conformed itself to circumstances. Where un-
limited power was within its grasp, it seized it with-
out hesitation, and exercised it without mercy. Egypt,
Inllia, all ancient Asia, and all feudal Europe, are
witnesses of this. Where it could not act so freely,
it submitted to the spirit of the people ; and worked
more quietly, more unseen, but equally effectually as
in Greece and Pagan Rome. England, after Wil-
liam III., afforded no further scope for imprisonment,
the martyr's flaming pile, or the bloody axe of the
public executioner. It was rapidly careering in a
course of knowledge and civilization, which made
men acquainted with their rights, and has eventually
lifted this nation to the proudest position ever occu-
p.ie<l.by SJJJ-Y peo,ple iJl the whole history of the world.
Coogle
288 PIUESTCilAFT
The established clergy, therefore, had nothing to do
but to secure the full enjoyment of their revenues,
and that parochial influence with which they were
invested; and the consequence is that, in the noblest
nation of the earth, they have become the richest
body of priss and the most apathetic towards the
people, from whom their wealth is drawn. The
clergy, from these circumstances, have been long
gradually diverging into two classes,--one, sunk into
the slumberous bed of enormous wealth and gross
luxury; the other, into the miserable slough of in-
terminable toil and poverty. If we look at the dig-
nitaries of the church, and at the description of the
dignitaries of the papal church in its latter days or
universal influence, can we avoid being struck with
the coincidence of character ? " They pass their
days amidst the pleasures and cabals of courts ; and
appear rather the slaves of princes, than the servants
of Him whose kingdom is not of this world. They
c~t glory : they aspire after riches ; while very
few employ their time and labour in edifying the
people, or in promoting among them the vital spirit
of religion ; and, what is more deplorable, those
bishops who, sensible of the sanctity of their charac-
ter, and the duties of their office, distinguish them-
selves by zeal in the cause of virtue, are frequently
exposed to the malicious efforts of envy, often loaded
yith false accusations, and involved in perplexities of
various kinds."
But it is not the bishops alone to whom this ap•
plies. These are the features of the establishment,
at least as they appear in the eyes of the people at
large:- . . . . .
A clergy, m part, overpa1d, and mactive ; m put,
overworked, and ill paid.
Loaded, in part, with opulent sinecures and shame-
IN ALL AGES. 239
ful pluralities; the greater part doing the duty of the
lazy and absent-on a paltry pittance.
Lukewarm in their duties ; and proudly cold in
their intercourse with the poor of their flocks.
A clergy, doggedly adhesive to the establishment
as it is, in spite of the progress of the public mind;
adhering to its most absurd, and most impolitic in-
stitutions, rites, and dogmas.
For ample details of the facts given in thia Chapter, and
abundant similar ones, see Fuller'8 Church History ; Strype's
Ecclesiaatical Memorials; Foll:'s Acta and Monuments;
Heylin's History of the Reformation ; Neale's History of Puri-
tans; Brooke's History of Puritans; Burnet's History of the
Reformation, and History of his own Times; Godwin's Com-
monwealth ; Rushworth's Historical Collections ; Vaughan'a
History of the Stuart Dynasty ; Sewell's History of the People
called Quakers; Gough's History of Quakers; Bes~~e's Suffer.
ings of the People called Quakers ; Yearly Epistles of }'riends ;
History of the Covenanters.
Coogle
CHAPTER XVII.
ENGLISH CHURCH-cONTINUED.
Thrice happy days ! thrice blest the man who saw
Their dawn l The Church and State, that long had held
Unholy intercourse, were now divorced !
PoUok's Cour~e of Time, B. 4. .
Forced consecrations out of another man's estate are no better
than forced vows, hateful to God, " who loves a cheerful giver;~
but much more hateful wrung out of men's purses to mlliutaia:a
disapproved ministry against their consciences. .:
Millon on Hirelings.• ..
So intolerable has the state of the church, describe<!
in the conclusion of the last chapter, become, that the'
public is, at this moment, loud in demanding its re-.
form ; and a few of the clergy themselves, sensible tha(
reform is inevitable, with a wise policy, bend in some
degree to the popular opinion. Already the minis-.
ters of a reformed government kave published thek
plan of reform for the church of Ireland-that mon-
strous excrescence, where a revenue of 800,0001.·
according to the last clerical returnfi to Parliamen~
but according to other calculations, little short
of 2,000,000l., is appropriated to a population of
500,000 Protestants ; while 8,000,000 of Catholies_
not only help to support their establishment, but thdi:
.• This most invaluable tract _
has been recently reprinted (a.:
L1verpoo.l and Pontefract ; but 1t ou~ht as well as .lllila.ta'a.
otlre~ art1cles on the church, to bt: spintedly made mown to tbf-
publ~e by the London.press. · · • · '
Coogle
1N ALL AG:£8, 241
own priests. The proposed reform consists prin-
cipally in reducing the archbishoprics and bishoprics
from twenty-two to twelve; in reducing the incomes of
the remaining ones ; in laying on a tax of fifteen per
cent. on the general income of the clergy ; in taking
off the church cess, or rate, from the people ; and in
.selling off the lands of the extinguished bishoprics as
they fall out of lease. The Irish members of parlia-
ment have received this announcement with ecstasies
of delight. It is part of the Irish character to fly into
sudden raptures ; but cool reflection will come yet ;
and then-what will satisfy them? Why, nothing
short of the utter abrogation of Protestant episcopacy
as a state religion. If it were necessary that a reli-
gion should be established, as it is called, it ought
here to be the Catholic. The opinions of the majority
of a nation ought surely to command some respect ;
ought surely to be the guide in such matters. If a
11ation is to patronize and support one religion in pre-
ference to another, it ought surely to be the religion of
the nation. The religion of Irelan'd is catholic,-the
religion of Scotland is presbyterian,-why should
Scotland be permitted to have a church of her own,
and Ireland be refused one ? Why should the majo-
rity in the other parts of the empire decide the
establishment of their party, and m Ireland an
iruignificant sect be thrust upon the people as the
NATIONAL RELIGION j and be bolstered up with tithes,
glebes, and wealth enormous ? These are plain
questions, and suggest a plain answer.
One circumstance connected with Irish church
reform is characteristic of its real nature and extent,
as proposed by the present ministers, and ought to
have opened the eyes of all men. The bishopric of
:berry, the most enormously endowed in Ireland, was
vacant at the very moment of the organization of this
• . •R .
PatESTCB:APT
pbn of reform. If a number of bishoprics were to be
.reduced, why should not this have been oneY Odf
it were not thought desirable to extinguish it, why
should not the incumbent of one of these sees whieh
were to be withdrawn, be translated to this, and thus
one at least have been instantly removed ? The
surprise which the appointment of a bishop to ·this
see,- under these circilmstances created, was at onl!f:
dissipated, and gave place, in the public mind, to
a ·higher surprise, and feeling of -indignation, by
the discovery that the bishop thus installed, was Dr.
Poynton, the brother-in-laUJ of Earl Grey!· ThfB
was an assurance sufficiently intelligible. Willa '111811
set himself heartily to cut down a tree in ·whose
topmost branches he has placed his brother7 Willa
man essay to sink a vessel in which he has embarked
his own family? Will a general proceed cordially to
blow up a fortress in which his near relative is
commandant ?-Then, will Earl Grey set himself
heartily to work, to reform efficiently the Irish
Church?
The abolition of this bishopric would have been a
thing of the highest importance. Its revenue, accord-
ing to the present return, is 13,000l. ; and it' is
proposed to reduce it to 8000l. But what is tbe
estimate of Mr. Wakefield of the value of this see t-
a most competent authority. He calculates that ell!
·whole of its property, over an(! above the tenth~
of the groBS produce of the land, cannot be ID1dl
shortof3,000,000l.; and that the bishop's land, at a
fair rate ofrent, would produce an income of 130,0001.
·a year. This, then, is the berth into which' But
Grey, in the face ofa reformed parliament-of bis'0111l
professions of real reform-of suffering Englaact, .I
starving Ireland, has comfortably put his brother-in-
law, and proposes to satisfy the country by ·•
tN ALL AG.IS,
abatement of 5,0001. a-year out of this immeoae
property. By the extinction of this bishopric alone,
a .saving to the country would have been made at
once of 3,000,000l. !- for the question in this case ia,
not.what the bishop actually derives from the land,
but what it is worth to the nation.
But the whole of this extraordinary establishment
of state religion is of a piece. For the government of
the whole church of England, twenty-six archbishops
and bishops exist-for 500,000 Irish Protestants
there are twenty-two ! According to former returns,
there are J238 parochial benefices ; according to the
present, 1401, in which are 860 resident clergymen.
To provide for these archbishops and bishops, who
supt'rintend about as many people as one bishop in
England would very well manage, it is calculated
that out of 14,603,473 statute acres under cultiva-
--tion, 13,603,473 arc tithed. The glebe of the paro-
chial clergy varies from 300 to 40,000 acres. The
glebe in the diocese of Derry alone, amounts to more
than 17,000 acres. The glebes, indeed, it is cal-
culated in Derry and Kilmore would, if equally
divided, give twenty acres to every parish in Ireland.
Mr. Wakefield estimates that the property of six of
the bishops, when out of lease, would produce
-o80,000l. a year ;-a sum which would give an
income of 500l. a-year for each of the clergy, aad
,a funCi for the establishment of a school in every
parish in Ireland. But if the property of six bishops
·amounts to 580,000l. a-year, what becomes of the
~lerical calculation which makes the whole inoome of
. thll Irish church butSOO,OOOl. ?-leaving to the whole
· body of parochial clergy and sixteen bishops little
_more than 200,0001. 1
. The following is an extract from the returns to the
_
.House of Commons in February, 1824.
. . R 2
"'Coogle
rRI.ESTCRAF.r
Sees. Acres.
Derry - - 94,836
Armagh - 63,470
Kilmore - 51,350
Dublin - - 28,784
Meath - - 18,374
Ossory - - 13,391
Total, 439,953 acres;
a rental of 439,953l.
Sees. Acrea.
Tuam - - 49,281
Elphin - - 31,01'1
Clogher - 32,81:[
Cork and Ross 22,'155
Cashel - - 12,800
Killaloe - 11,08t
which at 20s. per acre, give
If we estimate the remaining ten bishoprics at one;-,
third of .the amount, there is 146,651,-a re11talof
diocesan lands of 586,604l. .
If we estimaie the glebes at 100,000 acres, whi~h
is, probably, far too little, when the glebe of Derry
alone exceeds 17,000 acres, and the parochial glebea
vary from 300 to 40,000 acres, at 20s., here is
100,000l.
The tithe of upwards of 13,000,000 acres, at only
2s., a tithe of the rental, not of the gross produce.
would be 1,300,000l.-making a total of income for
the Irish church, of 1,986,604l.•
• Mr. Leader, in a speech in parliament, December 15th,
1832, calcula.ting on these returns, made the amount nearly th4
same. If, therefore, the last returns of 800,0001. be correc~
we must ask, what has become of a vast quantity of property!
The same question stmngely presents itself to our minds, as
regards the English church. Tile editor of the Mtn.ordiury
Black Book, says, "The returns to the circular inquiries by tbe
Board of Agriculture, make the tithe, throughout the kingdom,
in 1790, average, per acre, 4&. Ofd. ; in 1803, Sa. 3!d.; ia
1813, 7s. 9!d. Adopting the rate of tithes of 1803, and td:iftg,
";th the Quarterly Reviewer, the land in tillage at 31,795,too
acres, the whole amount of tithes collected is 10,267,2001.: ~
which, if we deduct one-third for lay tithes, and tithe-free led,
the amount of church tithes is 6,844,8001. per annum." If.
therefore, the church tithe al<J>ic, in 1803, tm~~7,000,000L,
and the whole income of the church, in 1833, u bvl abolll Til ltD
-MILLIONS AND A HALF, where, we must demand, has 11n immetne
amount of church property vanished l Nothiug, I am satisfied,
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 245
As women's fortunes are said tobe paidin sixpences,
so when the incomes of the clergy are retuxned to
government, they seem to be calculated in farthings,
or something less. Tithe and glebe seem suddenly
to lose their natural value, surplice fees and fines
shrink into insignificance. Yet the@c fines are pretty
things, though they do not always amount to so much
as the present Bishop of Durham is stated, on the
authority of Mr. Beverly, to have received of Mrs.
Beaumont, {or the renewal of the lease of her lead
mines-72,0001.
Now admitting, that owing to the low rate of
clerical leases, to waste land, to lay impropriatioii,
mid to the popular inability or repugnance to pay
tithes, the income of the church falls far below this
estimate ; the question, so far as the country is con-
cerned, is the same. Here is a monstrous amount
· of property appropriated to a certain purpose, and
what good is done? What good, indeed, as it regards
Ireland?-A prodigious waste of property (for in
addition to all the rest, it appears that, at different
times since the Union, about half a miUion has been
voted to augment poor livings), only to render the
name of Protestant hateful to that nation, by the
laziness, non-residence, and tithe-exactions of the
clergy of a church, which the Edinburgh Review,
will ever elicit the real amount of church revenue, except a LAY
cOMMliSION: and the kicking of the Tories and the Churcla
against the present demand by ministers for a return of tithes,
strengthens this conviction. Should any one think this opinion
uqjust to the clergy, 1 refer them to the eleventh page of theVin·
dieation at the end of this volume, and to the returns of the
C010111isaioners of Public Charities, which exhibit the clergy as
the moat wholesale and unacrupulous betrayers of their trust i~;~
~ elldowmeuts; having, in a majority of instances, engrossed
Ul Ulelll$e)ves the revepues bequeathed to the poor, to teiic!J. the
young,·and provide for the old. · '
PRIESTCRAPT
'some years ago, happily compared to an Irish regiment
'pf volunteers, which consisted of sixteen lieutenant-
;colonels, two drummers, and one private! The same
'able journal has well remarked, that "whatever may
·~e the supposed effects of a richly endowed church,
in maintaining a particular creed, it is evidently not
the machine for the conversion of a people."
· The justice and intelligence of the British people
·cannot long, therefore, be satisfied with lopping off a
few enormities from such a system; they will demand
its total extinction. Religion, and the best objects pf
all human government, demand it! For, if prO-
testantism is to prosper in Ireland, it must not come
before the people in the shape of a corporation, char-
.tered in opposition to the predominant feelings of the
· country, and endowed with a vast portion of the
people's wealth; it must not come in the shape of
two and twenty archbishops and bishops to super-
. intend some few hundred clergymen, on incomes of
lO,OOOl. a year; in the shape of tithe-fed clergymen
without parishes, parishes without c~ur~hes, and
··churches without people; in the shape of men who
· ·profess to be teachers of Christian meekness and love,
·. but are seen only as zealous collectors of tithes; iD
the shape of tithe-proctors, with troops of soldiery at
their heels; in the shape of noon-day exaction, ad
midnight retaliation and revenge; in short, of wealth
and violence on the one hand, and destitution and
despair on the other ;-but if it come reaDy tD
' prosper and to bless, it must come as Christ hirmelf
came,-as a free personification of disinterested kind-
.ness ; zealous love for the souls of men, rather tlwl
their purses; active endeavour to soothe the irritation
and enlighten the minds of the poor; it must be
offered to men's hearts, but not thrust upon tlleir
shoulders : it must stand before the public eJe as a
"" ,,Coogle
lllf .U.L .AG~I.
~ to be chosen, or refused; as a thing which
invites observation, and can bear it; as a thing which
obviously has no interest but what is blended with
the whole happiness of man;-whose nobility is ao
11tri.king, and its beauty so attractive, that hearts are
drawn to its embraces, not crushed beneath its tread.
The system of compulsion and lavish endowment has
been tried long enough ; long enough has state reli.
gion, to use Burke's sophistical metapQ.or, "reared
its mitred front in courts and parliaments;" its effects
. are before the public, in characters of fire and blood!
.Instead of peace, we have horrible anarchy-instead
of the milk of human kindness, deadly exasperatiQD
and relentless murder-in God's name let us see
what the system of the apostles will now do !-a free
offer,-an open hand,-and a zealous heart !-a
. system less of the bag and scrip, than of virtues and
arguments that address themselves to the Yants, the
understanding, and the generosity of a generous
nation.
Thus far had I written in the former editions ; the
Irish Church Reform Bill has since passed ; and
what a reform! It has completely realized the ex-
.pectations I held out at page 242, of what reforma-
tion was to be expected from Lord Grey. What,
·indeed, could be looked for ? Lord Grey, with two
brothers bishops, of his own appointment ; the LQrd
Chancellor, with a vast weight of church patronage ;
Mr. Stanley, of a family, in whose possession is pne
living alone worth 80001. a year; and most of the
other ministers mixed up, more or less, with ~he
, aristocratic church-and-state influence? Accordingly,
the Irish Church Reform is one of the mo11t melan-
choly farces with which ~ set of state pretenders ever
insulted a great people. These strange regenerators
of a nation, bold to seat thell)selves f1,rmly iJl p9we;r,
PlliESTCB.AFT
hestt&ting and' timid in effecting real reform, have in-
deed taxed the Irish clergy to maintain their churches·
in repair, but have given them the incomes of ten
bishoprics to pay it with ! What cares the people,
whether there be 16 bishops, or 16,000, so that the
same enormous amount of wealth is doomed to
maintain them? The only particle of real reform is
the abolition of the cess ; in every other respect the
people is disappointed, and the eVIl is aggravated by
leaving the same vast sum of revenue amongst a•
diminished number of ecclesiastics. '
To come now to England. The dissenters, now a
great and important body ofpeople-a people alive to
their civil and religious rights, must be relieved from
church-rates. Ministers have acknowledged thejustice
of this demand, by already proposing to abolish them
in Ireland-the principle in both cases is the same.
The Irish cess, it appears, produces only about
94,0001. ; but the church-rate for England and
Wales amounts to 665,1141. 18s., besides Easter
offerings,·claims of bishops, deans and chapters, etc.
on parishes and private property ; and claims of the
clergy on a multitude of pretences, as fees most
offensive in their nature ; and J do know, that the
Society of Friends, a comparatively small body,
suffers the violence and vexation of distraint of their
goods, for such things, to the amount of about
14,0001. a-year; and these people maintain their
own religion, and their own poor.
That English dissenters should he compelled to
contribute to the support of an established church, is
a moral and political abs~dity. By the Act of
Toleration of King William, the rights of conscience
are recognised : but by this compulsion all the rights
of conscience are violated. In the words of tbe able
writer from whom I have taken the motto at tbe
Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
h~ of the last chapter·-" A government cannot
patrOnize one particular religion without punishing
others. A state has no wealth but the people's .
wealth. If it pay some, it impoverishes others." To
tell us that we may all enjoy our own opinions,
and celebrate our own worship in perfect freedom,
and yet to compel us to support another mode of
religion, and another set of opinions, in our eyes
erroneous and unchristian, is at once an oppression
and a bitter mockery. It is not so much the sum of
actual money that we pay, which constitutes the
grievance,-that might be borne ; but the gravamen
lies here,-that by supporting an establishment, we
support what, in the abstract, both religiously and
politically, we believe ought not to exist. We
believe it is the duty of a government, and espe-
cially of a Christian government, which acknow-
ledges the sacred rites of conscience, to protect every
modification of the Christian religion ; but not to
support one in preference to, and at the expense of
the rest. This is not to patronize religion, but a
party. That an establishment, unjust and impolitic
in itself, never can, and never has, promoted true
religion, is shewn abundantly by this volume ; it is
testi1ied equally by the apathy of the established
church, and the activity of the dissenters. Is it
not a source of continual complaints and bitterness
amongst clerical writers, that the dissenters are for
ever intruding themselves into their parishes ; and
with what they are pleased to tenn their fiery fanati-
cism, continually turn.the heads of their parishioners,
and seduce them to the conventicle? Now whether
this zeal be healthful or not, whether it be pure or
alloyed, refined or coarse, rational or fanatic, it mat-
ters not to our present question,-it is zeal,-and
the vital question is, whence does it arise? how is it ,
PRIESTCRAPT
JWU.ntained? Not, certainly, from a state eiltabliah·
ment !-not by charters and endowments. It springs
from the soul of the people, and asks no breath of
life but their approbation. Here, then, is an acknow-
ledged principle of religious propagation, more effica-
cious than all the boasted influence of canonicals and
mitres ; of cathedral piles and sounding orchestras ;
Qf all the political machinery of tithes, and glebes,
and church-rates, and forced payments, called by the
sarcastic name of gifts and offerings, as if the imposi-
tioa were not enough, but we must suffer the mockery
of being placed in the light of free donors and bowing
offerer& of gifts at a shrine that we inwardly abhor.
Here is a confessed power to keep alive the popular
zeal for religion :-if that zeal wants better guidance,
it becomes every good man to lend his hand to its
due direction,-but the principle itselfis indisputably
manifested, and sets the seal for ever to the non•
necessity, and therefore to the political oppression, of
a state religion. Nothing could justify a state reli-
gious establishment but the total and proven impo.-
sibility of keeping alive Christianity without it; but
here it is seen that religious zeal rather takes any
other form ~han that stamped upon it by legal enact-
ments. Like the acanthus, pressed under the tile, it
rises up with unquenchable vitality all around, and
not only buries the dead tile of policy under its
vigorous vegetation, but gives origin to new orden
of Christian architecture. While the zeal of the
established clerical order languishes under the weight
of good things which its friends have cast upon it ;
while bishoprics, and deaneries, and prebends cannot
stimulate it to the vital point of proselytism; while
tithes, and glebes, and fines, and parochial fees can-
not enliven it, the free breath of popular societies
can blow it into a flame that spreads far and wide,
IN ALL AGES. t51
and even scorches the canonical skirts of the state
clergy. Who, after this, shall dare to repeat the
stale sophism, that Christianity needs the arm of
human legislation to supvort her,-that she must be
perched on cathedral pinnacles to be fairly seen; that
she must be wrapped in alb or surplice, and crowned
with shovel-hat or mitre to be reverenced, and seated
on the episcopal throne to be adored ? Who shall
dare to turn his eye on the United States of America,
:where there is no state religion, yet where Christianity
flourishes not less than amongst us, and then attempt
to palm upon us the canting and selfish falsehood,
that religion is bound up in the bundle of life with an
Act of Parliament?
By compelling us to support an established reli-
gion, we are compelled to support and propagate all
its errors, its injustice, and its absurdities, however
great, and numerous, and pernicious they may be.
Every sect in England at present, in contributing to
the establishment, contributes to that which it abhon.
The denouncer of episcopacy is made to maintain a
whole hierarchy of bishops ; the Catholic, what he
.declares to be pestilent heresies of the most damnable
sort ; the Calvinist maintains Arminianism ; the Ar-
minian, Calvinism ; for, in the church are combined
"a Calvinistic creed, and an Arminian clergy." The
.friend, who believes all hierarchies anti-christian,
who holds that all ministers should speak from the
immediate influence of the Holy Spirit, and abomi-
;nates hireling ministers, written sermons, a cut-and-
<\ried liturgy, and half the doctrines of the church to
boot, is forced, by distraint of his goods, to feed and
uphold all these enormities : every man is made to
maintain the doctrine of priestly absolution, for the
church maintains it ; and every man is made most
heartily to damn himself, for the Athanasian creed,
252 PRIESTCRAFT
which is one of the creeds of the church, does declare
every man to be damned who doubts it.
Such a preposterous abuse of power never can be
much longer tolerated in this country. The church-
rates must be abolished, indeed the people have
shewn, that if the government will not abolish them,
they will do it for themselves ; and wit!!. them, tithes
must cease also. The removal of this last burden is
now so universally deemed necessary, that I shall
not say much upon it. Tithes are politically con-
demned, and will disappear for ever. A more inge-
gious method could not have been devised for the
support of a minister of religion, had it been the
object of the deviser to place an eternal subject ol
hatred, heart-burning, and dispute between him and
his flock ; to place him in the position of a harpy
over the table of every one of his hearers; and to
thus render abortive all his religious endeavours. A
more iniquitous one never was conceived,-for it
taxes not simply a man's land, but his capital, 'his
genius, his skill, and industry ; so that the priest
reaps not merely a tithe of the fruits of the earth, but
of the fruits of every man's heart and mind who ven-
tures to till the earth.
The history of tithes is a singular one. Neves:
were any poor people so troubled to contrive a plau-
sible title to ill-gotten booty, as our protestant clergy
have been to this popish plunder of tithes. They
have asserted for them rights of all kinds,-a right
divine; a right constitutional; a right from posses-
sion ; and have, in turn, been driven from them all.
Their right divine was founded on the Mosaic law.
But this they soon found they could never establish.
unless they could prove us all Jews, and themselv~
genuin·e Levites ; f<1r God gave tithes only from hia
own people, and that to the tribe of Levi. The
IN ALL MiES.
PRIESTS, a particular family of that tribe, were .only
to receive of the I"evites a tithe of their tithe ; that il,
a hundredth part ; so that could our priests have
proved us real Israelites, and bound to pay tithes,
they .could claiiJl only a hundredth part; the ninety
would go to the vergers and beadles, the cleansen~
and orderers of the temple. As this did not appear
very promising, they then fell upon the constitu-
tional, or legislative right. Here they grounded
their claims upon various enactments. The earliest
were those of some of the kings of the Saxon Hep·
tarchy, which only extended to their own portiOil$
of the empire, and were to be given by the peopkto
what body of clergy, or religious house they pleased.
There was no general Act for their payment till the
reign of John, about 1200, when the mode of apprQ-
priation was specifically defined in obedience to th~
bull of Pope Innocent III. But their institution
was so perfectly popish,-ordered by the pope hilll•
self, given by a popish monarch, and for most popish
pretences, that no protestant clergy could ever set
up any claim to them on these grounds. They were
obtained in the first place by a species of holy
swindling. They were granted, .both by monarchs
and private individuals, not for the maintenance of
the church and religion, but for a private and seHish,
object,-for the expiation of enormous crimes, often
crimes of blood, as in the case of Athelstan, king of
the West Saxons, to pacify the soul of his murdered
brother Edwin, of which he was supposed to .be
guilty ; and of Edgar, cruel to citizens, a !leflowere£
<?f virgins, and concerned in the murder of Ethelwold1
that he might possess his wife, Elfrida ; of Canute,
guilty of the blood of Edward and Edmund, sons.ot.
Ironside. The clergy had persuaded these, and, all
other men, that they could pray.their souls 0ut q(
PRIESTCRAFT
purgatory, and remit the punishment of such heinous
offences-thereby creating such sins against society ;
and to obtain these inestimable services, the powerful
and the wealthy gave these pretended keepers of the
keys of heaven and hell, the wages of tithes. They
were therefore so dyed in blood, both by the give~
and the takers, who were the actual encouragers to
bloodshed, by holding out so easy a remission, that
no reformed clergy could plead upon thi~ title. But
the gross delusion, by which they were obtained, was
equally indefensible. In this midnight of popery,
tithes were called THE souL's RANsoM; and were so
preached up by the covetous clergy, that the cre-
dulous people gave them eagerly. Who indeed
would deny the souL's RANsou,-endless life, if 5o
to be purchased? By this fraud the church got into
possession of the third part of the land ; and but for
the Statute of Mortmain, it is believed, would have
swallowed up the whole. That such was the origin
of tithes ; that they were given, not with the pious
view of affording an ecclesiastical maintenance, but
in a private and selfish bargain for salvation, rQay be
seEn by any one who will examine the original grants.
Take these specimens, from the reign of Henry II. ·
Be it known to those that are present, and to those
that shaU succeed, that I, NICHOLAS, the soa of T.Ea-
ROLD, FOR THE SALVATION OF MY SOUL1 AND OF llT
PARENT, etc., hafJe granted to the church, to be held
for efJer, the TITHES of my land, whiclr I poss~s ;,_.
the fJillage of CHILTUNE.
I, WILLIAM DE ALBUIEIO, do grant u11to God, a•tl
fJJ ST. ANDREW oF RocHESTER, and to the monks
hiM>ing residence there, all my TITHEs, etc., for tlle
soul of King WILLIAM; and for the soul of x;.,
HENRY; and for my own soul; and for the sou($ of
my'father and mother; anfl of my wife ; and of M1
Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
brother NraEttus; and of my brother HuMPHREY;
and for the souls of my other parents, alive and dead.
And this passage from the charter of King Stephen
to the Priory of Eye, in Suffolk.
t STEPHEN, by the grace of God, King of England,
touched by the love of God, and for the salvati011 of
my soul; and of my father's soul, and of my mother's
soul; and of my ancestors, kings, do give unto God,
and the church ofST. PETER of EYE, and to the monks
there fJeNJing God, that they may have all theirprofits,
quiet, and free from all exactions, in l4nd, tithes,
churches, possessions, etc. etc.
And having procured these good things by these
hypocritical means, they were always ready to main·
tain their possession of them by the same, as may
be seen by this curious farce, got up to suit the gross
Ignorance of the age. " St. Austin, coming to a
certain place called Cbmiton to preach, the priest of
the place made complaint against the lord of the
manor, for detaining his tithes. For which thing
Austin excommunicated him ; and, saying tnass at
the altar, forbade excommunicated persons to be
present thereat. Presently, a dead corpse, buried
one hund1·ed and seventy years before, arose out of his
gratJe, and stood afar off during the celebrating ofholy
mass. Austin asked him what he was. He said he
!Das a man that, during his lifetime, would never pa!/
tithe to the p·riest, so was excommunicated; and dying,
teent to hell for the crime. Austin raised the dead
priest, who affirmed-that that man would never pay
his tithe. Austin sent the live-dead corpse to his
grave again, saying, he had suffered long in hell, that
is, i.n purgatory. The lard of the manor seeing all
,lhis, was much terrified, and fell at Austin's feet, con-
fessing his fault, and became a due payer of his tithes
all his lifetime !-Anglici Historia Aurea. ·
256 PRI;ESTCRU'T
No protestant clergy, I say, could receive them
on this foundation. When it was once admitted that
they had been obta.in:ed by a piece of the grosseat
priestly delusion, and that the object for which they
were.given was an utter chimera,-neither did nor
could exist in such agency-they ought immediately
to have been restored to the families whence they
had been thus extorted, or if they could not be
found, to the state. All modern title therefore muat
rest on the act of Henry VIII., who took them from
their original possessors, and gave them to whom he
would. But the very means by which they were
converted into the maintenance of a protestant
clergy, implied a power of resumption. They were
taken from the papal church to which they were
given, for ptirppses peculiar to that church, and given
to another body of men. Nobody could possibly
:have so good a title to them as the original body,
bad as we have seen it was ; if therefore they were
conveyed to the protestant clergy by the g~ernzunt,
because this appropriation appeared to the govem-
ment more for the public good-the only jlllltifiable
reason,--it followed, that, whenever the government
saw a'IIOther plan, in its belief still MORE conduciv~ to
the public good, or because the former plan did not
produce the proposed end, the government could
resume them, and apply them according to its wis-
dom ;-besides, that no government can legislate for
posterity, except conditionally. If we admit none of ·
our laws in our own day to be irrevocable, but are
continually examining their u&ility, revoking and
framing anew, how much more must this power oi
rescinding belong to posterity, who cannot be preseDt.,
and therefore cannot be consenting to our e~
meBts7 If, therefore, we cannot legislate for po.-
terity but conditionally, our ancestors could bind ao
IN' ALL AGES. !57
burdens upon us but with the same proviso of our
approval, and thus the clerical title to tithes, in every
point of view, resolves itself solely into the will of
government.
One fact, not yet noticed, is very remarkable :-
we have seen that tithes were the accredited souL's
· ltANSOH ; and as CHARITY was declared by Scripture
to cover a multitude of sins, they were made to
include the principle of charity, as an effectual means
of expediting the operation of ransoming, or praying
out of purgatory. This was the cause that they
were not merely given to the clergy, but tO the poor.
One part to the bishop,-one to the clergy,-one to
the mpport of ecclesiasticalbuildings,-and one to the
poor. All this, which was religiously observed, even
by the swindling, deluding popish priests, was done
away with by the reformed clergy. They robbed the
poor of their pan, and threw both them and the
churches on the country!
Such is the history; of tithes ; their operation
bas been shewn by the ablest write~"\ to have
been most deplorable-the source of everlasting
rancour between minister and people-of indolence
and riot on one band, of ·poverty on the other-
destructive alike to the progress of agriculture and
to religious reformation. But it is in Ireland that
the system has produced its amplest horrors. There
rapacious priests, for the most part, pluralists and ·
absentees, have deputed their claims to voracious
tithe proctors, who have dragged this soul's ransom
from the members of the church which first held it,
to give it to the pastors of a church who do not
beHeve it a soul's ransom at all, but a very good
lxi6y'1 comfort,-bave dragged it from the poorest cul•
tivator of the poorest and smallest patch of ground,
till they have roueed the spirit of the whole people
s•
PILIUTCllAI!'T
to resistance. Hence the hostile meetings oftithe proc-
tors and tithe payers,-hence, interference of soldiers.
-hence the murders and bloodyskirmishes which have
made tha' fine country a waste, and a land of hor-
rors in the ears of all civilized nations. Let any one
that reads this recital from the Waterford Chronicle,
December 19, 1831, reflect that the country is full of
such cases, from one end to the other ; and then
wo~der, if he can, at all that has occurred:- ·
''Catherine Carroll is a poor woman, living at
Ballytruckle, on the Kil St. Laurence road, in a
wretched cabin ; and, till this year, she was nevex
called upon to pay incumbent-money. The haad-of
afiliction was upon this poor creature ; her son lay
on his death-bed, if bed may be called a wretched
wad of straw. A daughter too, was lying ill of a
severe cold, with lumps in her throat. The collector
called to demand the tax. The wretched woman
had not the means of paying it. What was to. be
done? The whole house did not contain a sufficient
distraint; but-let me restrain my indignation while
I tell it-tne poor woman had taken advantage of
her children's illness,-of their being confined to bed,
-to take oft' the only shirt and shift·they possessed
to wash them ; and unfortunately had them upon
a bush at the door, drying, at that moment. The
collector saw the prize-and at one fell swoop, cw-
ried oft' the shirt of the boy !-the shift of the girl!-
the trowsers of the poor man !-his stocking& !-a
waistcoat, belonging to another child !-and an apron
belonging to another daughter !-all went to make
nectar of the wine of some pampered ecclesiastic !
The boy died yesterday ; and on the bed of death,
although this worse than Turkish act occurred oo
Friday week, this unhappy child knew not the com-
fort of a shirt ; and his little corpse is now lyiDg
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 259
naked, owing to the ruthless system of the church
establishment."
At length the people resolved, en fTUUse, to refuse
the payment : and what did our reforming ministers ?
Abolish those odious tithes? No! As the Irish
would not pay them, they decreed that we should,-
giving us the Irish landlords as our sureties for
repayment. Thus, not contented with having the
Irish people and protestant priesthood in hostile
array, they have thrown this fatal apple of discord
between the tenants and the landlords, and the con-
sequences cannot be long unseen.
But they are condemned : and let them go, with
this one observation of Milton's-" As well under
the gospel as under the law-say our English divines,
and they only of all Protestants-is tithes. That
the law of tithes is in force under the gospel, all
other Protestant divines, though equally concerned,
yet constantly deny. When any one of our's has
attempted, in Latin, to maintain this argument,-
though a man would think they might suffer him,
without opposition, in a point equally tending to the
advantage of all ministers-yet they cease not to
oppose him, as in a doctrine not fit to pass unop-
posed under the gospel: which shews the modesty,
the contentedness of those foreign pastors with the
maintenance given them ; their sincerity also in
truth, though less gainful, and the avarice of ours,
who, through the love of their old papistical tithes,
ccnsider not the weak arguments, or rather conjec-
tures and surmises which they bring to defend them.''
What a striking fact is this ! and what a singular
feature it presents of the English church-the only
one that has advocated and suffered itself to be fed
by this iniquitous system ! · If we add to this the
following paragraph, which appeared in the Essex
8 2 •
260 PB.IBSTCB.AFT
Independent, and the principle of which, whatever
the calculations may be, is notoriously correct, what
an image of clerical rapacity and want of conscience
we have before us I " The church ought to relinquish
the property of the poor. The original tripartite
division of tithes is acknowledged-one-third portion
of the revenue of the church being the undoubted
property of the poor. The entire possessions of the
church, in tithe and landed property, amount in value
to the sum of 170,450,000l. ; and the extensive
leaseholds lately reverted to the bishopric of London,
raise the amount to lSO,OOO,OOOl. One-third of this.
60,000,000l., is therefore the sum which 'the sta&e ~
most equitably entitled to demand from the church.*'
After reading this, who can prevent himself recalling
the words of Christ-" The poor ye have always with
you, but me ye have not alwaysI"
In the next place, the church must be divorced
from the state. This unnatural union, the device of
artful politicians, is an injustice to the subject, and
an indignity to the church itself. The natural effect
upon a church in becoming a state religion is, that its
freedom is instantly extinguished; every principle of
progression and improvement is annihilated; and the
generoUB spirit which would lead it to expand, and
spread itself abroad on the kindred spirits of men, is
frozen by the cold breath of worldly policy. Like
metal molten in the furnace, it flows into the state as
into a mould, receives its shape and stamp, and sets
for ever. It may be dashed to pieces by the appli-
cation of external force; but, last as long as it may,
it will never be moved, remodelled, or purified, from
within. It becomes stationary for ever. However
all around may be quickened with the moving spirit
of knowledge, and excited to activity and fruitful-
ness, it stands silent and barren,~like a tree coYered
with the knots and burs of antiquated absurdities; its
"'· ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 261
head, a chaos of rotten boughs amid the green vigour
of the forest; and while it is insensibly falling to
decay, it bears itself with a sturdy and sullen pride,
and wears a ludicrous air of superiority in the very
moment of its fall. That such is the situation of the
Establishment, who can deny?-Who that calls to
mind its doctrine of absolution of sins; its Athanasian
creed,- thing so monstrous as to'horrify and make
ashamed the best minds of its own sons, and which
compelled Tillotson, long ago, to wish they were well
rid of it; and, moreover, its Thirty-nine Articles,
that precious medley of follies and contradictions,-
• medley, however, which every one, owing to the
inflexible nature of the church, is obliged to swallow
before he can be ordained a minister; and which Paley,
after acknowledging that it was a Gordian knot, en-
deavoured to cut asunder, by declaring these articles
articles of peace; as if it would enable men to escape
the guilt of falsehood, by treating bitter and con-
tradictory professions of faith as physic, and swallow-
ing them as a necessity ? These articles lie at the
door of the church as a threshold of lying; and, if
perjury does not depend on a form of words, but on
the inward denial of a solemn truth,-of perjury, to
every one of its ministers who is not wild enough to
believe impossibilities; and in one university, stand
m the way of every student. The great Jeremy
Bentham, one ofthe noblest, as well as most sagacious
minds which ever blessed earth by its presence, has
left on record whatit cost him to subscribe them:; and
numberless are the conscientious spirits which have
turned away from them in disgust. Yet there they
stand at the church-door, in all their glorious con-
trariety, and would for ever stand while the church
was a member of the state.
When a church stands on its own simple basis, it
may renovate its constitution; it may explode wom-
' Coogle
262 PB.lESTCB.AFT
out creeds; abandon dogmas or rites that have become
hideous in the increased light of universal knowledge,
and preserve itselfin keeping with the spirit ofthe a,<>e,
and in consequent capacity for usefulness; but, make
it a portion of the state, and it immediately becomes
a species of high treason to attempt the least change
in it. Make its ministers illustrious with dignities,
and fat with good livings, and they will for ever cry,
" Great is Diana of the Ephesians !" The church
will be the best of churches,-immaculate and divine;
and they will growl on any one who even dares to
look curiously at it, as a jealous dog growls over his
bone. Make it the road to political power and
honour, and you make its highest ministers the moat
obsequious slaves of state ; the most relentless ene-
mies of freedom and mercy.• This has been toO
• The bulk of the incidents in the History of Priestcraft. are
bloody and revolting; but there are a few that are the very
fathers of merriment. When Tetzel was selling indulgences in
Germany, for all sins, past, present, and to come, and had well
filled his saddle-hags with the money of pious fools of that
generation, and was about to depart, a nobleman ca.JJed on him
to procure one for a future crime. Tetzel inquired what it wu.
The nobleman replied, he could not tell-he had not yet quite
decided; but the holy father could charge what he pleased, and
leave that to him. Tetzel charged acl'ordingly; and the next
day aa he waa riding through a wood in order to leave the
country, the nobleman. met him, and seized on his saddle-bag$.
"This," said he, "is the sin I meant to commit!" Tetzel.
enraged at being thus outwitted, hastened back to the emperor,
full of wrath and complaints; but when the nobleman appeared,
it was with the indulgence in his band which sanctioned the
deed.
Waller, in his life, gives a curious instance of prelaticU
obaequience, which most miraculously was well met, by a
briUiant instance of prelatical wit and independence. At a
dinner with James I., were Neal, bishop of London, aad
Andrews, bishop of Winchester-·• Have not I a right," &aid
James, "to take mone7 from the people, without all this cere-
mony of going to parhament1" "Undoubtedly your majestv
has a right," replied Neal; "you are the breath of our nostrils !r'
"Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 263
conspicuous in the house of peers. Lord Eldon said
some years ago, in the house of lords, that he could
not bring himself to believe the slave trade was
irreconcileable with the Christian religion, .as the
bench of bishops had uniformly sanctioned by their
votes, the various Acts authorizing that trade. A
biting sarcasm, which ever way intended! •
But, say the advocates of state religion, how does
this appear, in the recent conduct of the bishops in
the same house? Have they not opposed both
government and people, to their great exasperation,
by voting against the Reform Bill? Yes! they have
"But what saye my lord of Winchester?" added James. "I
say,• returned the b1shop, " that your majesty ha¥ a right to take
brother Neal's; for he has given 1t you."
l31oody Mary sent a commissioner over to Ireland, with a
royal commission to the lord lieutenant to burn, destroy, and
confiscate the property of the protestant&, and bring them to what
is called justice. The man lodging at a widow Edmonda', in.
Chester, was waited on by the mayor; to whom he boasted that
be bad that with him that would bring the Irish heretics to their
senses-and opening a box, he shewed him the commission. The
widow, who had a brothvr in Ireland, a protestant, happened to
hear this, and was alarmed. As the commi3Sioner shewed the
mayor down stairs, abe adroitly withdrew the commission, and
1111pplied its place with a sheet of paper, in which was wrapped
a pack of cards, with the knave of clubs uppermost. The decep-
tion was undiscovered. On the commissioner's arrival at Dubli11,
he had an audience of the lord lieutenant, in the presence of a
splendid assembly. He made a fine speech, and boasted much
of his powers-when on going to produce his commission,
behold, to the astonishment of himself and his hearers, nothing
but the pack of cards, and the 'knave of clubs uppermost ! " It
_, the queen's commission," said the crest-fallen delegate;
"but how it is changed I know not." "Well," said the lord
lieutenant, "you must return to England for fresh powers; and
in the meantime, we willahu&le the cards!" He returned, but
be was too late-the queen was dead; and on the subject being
related to Elizabeth, she was highly diverted by it, and settled
on Mra. Edmonds 401. a year.
• MorniltB Chf"011ic14, Ocl. 311t, 1818.
264 PIIJBSTCB.AFT
-and on the same principle. What Selden says, ia
most true- " It hath ever been the gain oi the
church when the king would let the church have no
power, to cry down the king, and cry up the church;
but when the church can make use of the king's
power, then to bring all under the king's prero-
gative." In every case, the state clergy are the ene-
mies of the people. They may occasionally spurn
at th.e monarch, when he ceases to be a prelatical
jackal-but at all times they are averse to the liberty
of the subject. Their hostility to the Refonn Bill
will not readily be forgotten; and has, no doubt,
hastened by many years the downfal of their order.
Let us now hear our noble Milton, on the effect of
a state religion. " 'rhat the magistrate should take
into his power the stipendiary maintenance of clum:h
ministers, as compelled by law, can stand neither with
the people's thought, nor with Christian liberty, bat
would suspend the church wholly upon the state, and
turn the ministers into state pensioners. For the
magistrate to make the church his mere wanl, as
always in minority;-the chun:h, to whom he ought,
as a magistrate, ' to bow down his face towards the
earth, and lick up the dust of her feet,'---.her to sub-
ject to his political drifts, or conceived opinioua, a
neither just, nor pious ; no honour done to the
church, but a plain dishonour: and upon her whose
head is in heaven,-yea upon Him who is the only
head in eft'eet; and, what is most monstrous, a human
on a heavenly, a carnal on a spiritual, a political head
on an ecclesiastical body; which at length by such
heterogeneal, such incestuous conjunction, transforma
her ofttimes into a beast of many heads, and many
horns."
Such a beast has the church become by this state-
commtrce, even by the confession of her friends; and
IN ALL AGES. 265
that commerce must be annihilated. Justice, im-
partial justice, to this great and Christian nation
demands it ; the growth of Christianity demands it ;
the prosperity of the church itself demands it as well.
This ia a measure called for on behalf of the nation ;
and there are numbers who will contend that, the
clmruh, ceasing to be a state church, should restore its
property to the nation whence it was drawn. That,
ia strict justice, all national property should revert to
the nation when the object for which it was bestowed
ceaaes, there can be no question ; in strict justice to
the other Christian communities of this country, this
ought clearly to be the case,-since, admitting the
rights of conscience, the nation ought not to enrich
ooo ~dy of Christians at the expense of the rest: and
that parliament has a right to recall the loan of church
property is clear as daylight. The present priest-
hOCICl form a. standing proof and precedent of it, since
it was taken from.the Catholics and given to them.
In resuming the national property, respecting at
the SltlDe time all private endowments made since the
Reformation, which ought to be held as sacred as the
priTate endowments of the Dissenters, every lover of
his country, and its monuments of history and art,
WOllld desire to see a sufficient fut;td appropriated to
maintain in repair our noble cathedrals-specimens
of the architectural genius of our ancestors ; and our
parish churches-objects ofpicturesque beauty. This
fund need not be large, since a handsome sum would
ariae from letting them as places of worship; giving
always, as a matter ofcourtesy, the original preference
to their present occupiers ; and to pass out of their
hand& only in case of neglect, desertion, or abuse ;
the existence of such sufficient causes to be deter-
mined in a Inanner prescribed by parliament. The
parsonages and glebes might also be valued at a
266 PR.lESTCRA'FT
moderate price; the option of purchase given to
the episcopalians ; and the payment to be made by
such instalments as would render it as little burden-
some as possible ; or, let the nation act munificently
as becomes a great nation, and give them freely the
parsonages and glebes ; always, and in every case,
demanding the surrender of private patronage, and
investing the election of the minister in the people.
In the disposal of the bulk of the church pro-
perty, regard, I think, should be had to the original
intentions of the donors ; and this intention was,
according to the best of their knowledge, and the
knowledge and opinions of the age,-the Christian
enlightenment and instruction of the people. No
appropriation of this wealth appears, therefore, ao
conducive to this object as that of establishing
with it a national system of education. To bring
up the children of the state in the way they
should go, ought to be, and will be, one of the most
serious aims of a Christian community. It is pre-
cisely that measure which is, of all others, wanted in
our populous country, to prevent that growth of
crime, which it is at present the melancholy task of
the executive to punish, without a hope of sub-
duing. Much is done by the generous exertions of
individuals ; but individual labours cannot reach the
extent of the evil; nor ought the burden, if they
could, to rest on them. It is the especial business of
the state ; the state ought to see it effected, and here
are ample means ! It would, at the same time, be
' necessary to guard these means from the lamentable
spirit of jobbing which infects almost all our public
measures ; and from every partial, sectarian, or per-
sonal influence in their distribution, so that the
children of all parties should reap an equal benefiL
What a glorious reform would this be ! what an ani-
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 267
mating subject of reflection to every patriotic mind-
that the wealth which now disappoints and scandal-
izes the nation, should be turned into a source of
perpetual blessings : instead of feeding the riotous,
the absentee, the reckless pluralist, or heavy unfaith-
ful indolence, it should be pouring knowledge and
moral life through the hearts of all the children of
the poor in this mighty kingdom! realizing what a
philosophic poet has long sighed for and foreseen.
0 for the coming of that glorious time
When, prizing knowledge as her noblest wealth
And beat protection, this imperial realm,
While she exacts allegiance, shall admit
An obligation on her part to teach
Them who are born to serve her and obey.
BnmxNo BBRSELF BY STATVTE to !SeCUre
For all the children whom her soil maintains
The rudiments of letters, and inform
The mind with moral and religious truth.
• • • • •
Change wide and deep, and silently performed,
This land shall witness ; and, as days roll on,
Earth's universal frame shall feel the effect,
Even till the smallest habitable rock,
Beaten by lonely billows, hear the songs
Of humanized society, and bloom
With civil arts, that send their fragrance forth,
A grateful tribute to all-ruling beuen.
EBpect these mighty issues from the pains
And faithful care of unambitious schools,
Instructing simple childhood's ready ear.
Hence look for these magnificent results !
Vaat the circumference of hope, -and ye
Are at ita centre, Britiah Lawrvers :-
Oh ! aleep not then. in shame .
W'ordlworth'1 E:rcurlion, 11. iz.
268 PRlBSTCRAFT
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE ENGLISH CHURCH-cONTINUED.
Oh ! said the hind, how many sons ha~ you
Who call you mother, whom you never knew 1
But most of them who that relation plead
Are such ungracious youths as wish you dead ;
Tbey gape at rich revenues which you hold,
And fain would nibble at your grandame gold.
Hind and Panther.
He is the true atheist, tbe practical enemy to religiOJl, wbo cu
ofFer to defend the present condition of the Church of England.
Wertmimter Review. No. x:rix
HAVING in the last chapter touched on the subject of
the church revenue, we must not leave it without
adverting to one particular. Whenever the exc.;ss
of clerical income is introduced, we are immediately
attempted to be disarmed by a statement that were
the whole revenue of the church equally divided, it
would give but about 112l. per annum to each cler-
gyman. The British or Clerical Magazine for March,
1832, admits, from the Parliamentary Returns, that
it would be 200l. per annum.• Now did we admit
this to be correct, what a shame is it that in a c:hnrch
so economically provided, so many individuals should
be allowed to wallow in the wealth and idleneee they
manage to combine ! Can the church answer it to
• The present Parliamentary Returna mue it aboat t87t.
IN ALL AGEl. 269
her conscience, if she have one, that in such a slen-
derly beneficed system, there should be many a
parish priest who holds from 1 to 5000l. a-year; and
that the scale of payment to its dignitaries should
stand thus, according to their own shewing :-
Archbishop of Canterbury :£27,000 a-year.
York 10,000
Bishop of Durham 17,000
----London 14,000
----Winchester 14,000
---Ely .• . 12,000
Nine others on an average 5,000
The rest on an average • 3,000
But if we were now to take· as the basis of our
calculations, the value of the bishoprics as given in
Liber Regis, they would appear as below. Those
e~timates were made when labour was a penny a day;
now it is twenty-four pence ; so that if we place
pounds instead of shillings ; that is, an advance of
twenty fold, we shall make a moderate calculation,
acconling to the increase in the value of general pro-
perty; and if of general property, why not that of
the chureh ? I have applied this scale to various
parochial livings whose income is well known, and
the result was wonderfully accurate. The bi11hop of
London's income will alone form an exception; for
according to the statement of Mr. Baring in Parlia-
ment, it has increased seventy-fold, and by the falling-
in of leases, will soon be one hundred fold.
· Archbishop of Canterbury £56,650 a-year.
York 32,200
Bishop of Durham 36,420
----London 70,000
----Winchester 57,479
,Coogle
270 P&l&lrO&APT
Bishop of Ely • . • . • £42,698 a-year.
---Salisbury .• 27,700 -
The rest on an average of 10,000 -
I am afraid we never can prove the church to be
poor, or to have been at any time indifferent to the
doctrine, that "godliness is great gain." There is
nothing in which the spirit of priestcraft has shewn
itself so grossly in the English clergy, as in their
appropriation ofwhat is called Queen Anne's Bounty.
The most shameful selfishness and disregard of every
thing like common honesty; like feeling for their
poorer brethren, or respect for the motives of the
deluded queen, mark the whole affair. The Edin-
burgh Review, in an able article in No. LXXV., made
a very salutary exposition of this wretched business.
Let the reader take this condensed view of it ;-
" It is well known that, by the statute of Henry
VIII. chap. 3, the first-fruits and tenths of spiritual
preferments (which had formerly been paid to the
Pope, or some other spiritual persons) were given to
the king. The first-fruits were the revenues and
profits for one year, of every such preferment ; and
were to be satisfied, or compo'linded for, on good
security, by each incumbent, before any actual or real
possession, or meddling with the profits of a benefice.
The tenths were a yearly rent of a tenth part of all the
revenues and emoluments of all preferments, to be
paid by each incumbent at Christmas. These re-
venues were, as the statute phrases it, united and
knit to the imperial crown for ever ! By the same
statute a provision was made for a commission to be
iesued by the king's highness, his heirs and succes-
sors, from time to time, to search for the ju.l and trw
value of the said first-fruits and profits ; and similar
means were provided for &:Scertainiug the value of
llf ALL AOSS. 271
tenths. In consequence of this statute, which was
suspended during the papistical reign of Mary, but
recovered by the 1st of Elizabeth, a valuation was
made, which is supposed to have been at the time an
accurate one, of the yearly profits of the ecclesiastical
preferments : and, according to this valuation, the
first-fruits and tenths were, as the 1st of Elizabeth
haa it, ' well and justly answered and paid, without
grief and contradiction of the prelates and clergy of.
the realm, to the great aid, relief, and supportation of
the inestimable charges of the crown,' which inesti-
mable charges may then possibly have amounted to a
two-hundredth par& of the present yearly sum.
"·Under this valuation, which in course of time
· ~e quite unequal to the real emoluments of the
preferments, these charges continued to be paid till
th!) second year of Queen Anne, 1703 ; when an act
was passed reciting the queen's most religious and
tender concern for the church of England, stating
that a sufficient settled provision for the clergy in
many parts of the realm had never yet been made ;
and giving to a corporation, which was to be erected
for the augm~tation of small livings, the whole of
the first-fruits and tenths. JJer Majesty, howefler,
mher religious and tender concern, was completely
orerreDChed by the clergy. The professed object of
the queen was to increase the provision of the poor
clergy ; the real and only immediate effect of it was
to release the rich clergy from a charge to which, by
law, they were liable. We have before maintained
that a provision was made in the statute of Henry
VIII., for revising, from time to time, the valuations
under which the first-fruits and tenths were paid. It
ia not improbable that the.clergy were apprehensive,
aa the nation was then engaged in an expensive war,
that such a revision might be made ; and in per-
272 PB.JES'l'C&AIT
suding the queen to renounce her hereditary renMie
for the sake of her poor clergy, they contrived most
effectually to secure themselves by an ingenious cla1Jee
in the statute in question.
" If the real purpose of this act of Anne had beea
to augment the small livings, nothing could hue
been more reasonable than to do it by enforcing the
legal claims for the first-fruita and tenths on the·
holders of the larger benefices. The scaJldalola
poverty of some livings-for there were then 1071'
which did not exceed lOl. a year-would then haft.
speedily disappeared : but as the old and inefltcieat
rate of payment was fixed and made perpetual, lhe
most religious queen went to hergrave without l8eblg
any effect from her bounty ; as, in consequence til
the incumbrances on the fund, and the impollaibility
of increasing its produce, it was not till 111-', thlll
the governors of the bounty were enabled to make•
their first grants.
" The cunning of the rich clergy in thus ahiftiJig
from themselves the burden of contributing to tile
relief of their poorer brethren, is only to be matichtd
in degree by the folly shewn in the application of die
diminished revenue which this trick of thein dill
left for the improvement of small livings. At the
time when Queen Anne's Bounty Fund was~
liahed there was, according to the retuma, wbich,..
not quite accurate, 5597 livings in England _.
Wales, with incomes not exceeding 50l. They were
thus classed :-
Not exceeding 10l. 1071
, , 20l. 1~7
, , 30l. 1126
, , 40l. 1049
, , 501. • • 886
- "The sum which the governon of Queen A.mae'a
Coogle
lJr ALL -AGBS, 27S
Bounty bad to apply to the augmentation of theM
livings, averaged about 13,000l. a year. Any
rational being would suppose that, under such cir-
cumstances, the governors and the legislature, by
whom the disposal of the money was directed and
superintended, would have made some inquiry into
the ciiiCumstances of the different livings. Some of
thelse livings were of very small extent, and scarcely
ltlly population, and might therefore have been
a.dvantageously united with one another, or with other
pu:iahes. The specific evil which was to be remedied
'W&8 aet forth in the preamble to the statute of Anne
ia·theae words:-' That divers mean and stipendiary
preachers are, in many places, entertained to serve
cores, and officiate there; who, depending for their
necessary maintenance upon the good-will and liking
oi their hearers, have been, and are, thereby under
teJQptation of too much complying, and suiting their
doctriiJes and teaching to the humours, rather than to
the good of their hearers, which baa been a great
occasion of faction and schism.' Precious philo-
aophy ! At least, therefore, one would have thought
that some distinction would have been made between
places where there were many hearers, and where
there •ere few or none. Some even might have been
ao extravagant as to expect, that when a sum was
beatowed on any particular living, some security
would have been taken for the residence of the incum-
bent. All these notions were, however, very far
from the minds of the persons who had the distribu-
tion of Queen Anne's Bounty. The governors of
this fund proceeded upon the idea which is commonly
entertained in England respecting the church esta-
blishment; especially by its own functionaries-
that, provided a sufficient sum of money be laid out
OJ) the clergy, every other good will follow : that
T*
-2T4 P&IESTCB.Ai'T
how absurd soever the distribution may seem, it is
not for human hands to destroy the latent harmony
of casual proportions. Above all things did they
eschew the idea, which the church abhors, that where
the public confers an obligation, it has a right to
exact the performance of a duty. Among the livings
on which they had to scatter the money, several
were large and populous parishes, where the tithes
had been impropriated ; and these, if 'the holders of
the tithes were not, as is often the case, ecclesiastical
sinecurists--or dignitaries as they are called-whose
incomes were at the disposal of parliament, would
have been proper objects for augmentation,-always
supposing, what is false in point of fact, that an
increase in the emoluments of a living has any ten-
dency to secure the performance of clerical duties.
Others were rectories, of which some were endowe,l
with the tithe of all the produce of their district, but
which were so insignificant as neither to need a sepa-
rate clergyman, nor to afford a separate maintenanCE'
for him. In the case of such livings, instead of
attempting to swell the incomes of needless offices,
the natural course would have been, to have consoli-
dated their neighbouring benefices ; and in no case
have made any augmentation, except where the
revenue arising from a district of extent and popula-
tion sufficient to need the cares of a clergyman,
should have been found insufficient to maintain him.
But this would have violated the fundamental prin·
ciples of the excellent Church; it would have inQ.
nuated a connexion between money expended aDd
duty performed ; it would have seemed like an
adaptation of means to an end; it would have madt
some inquiry and consideration necessary.
" The governors of the Bounty proceeded bouuti-
fully ; they distributed a part of their money in sums
IN ALL AGES,
of 2001. on any poor livings to which any private
person would give an equal sum. The rest and far
greaterpart of their money, shewing them no respecter
of persons nor of circumstances, these representatives
of the ecclesiastical wisdom of the nation, distribut'\d
bg wt, letting each poor living take an equal chance
for a prize, without any regard to the degree of
urgency of its claim. After this, the story of Bridoye
deciding suits at law by dice, after making up a fair
pile of papers on each side, seems no longer an extra-
vaganza. Up to January 1, 1815, the governors hail
made, in this way, 7323 augmentations of 200l. ; but
with benefices as with men, fortune is not propor-
tioned to desert or net'essity. Some of the least
populous parishes had a wonderful mn of luck. We
are not sure that, taking a few of those which meet
our eye in mnning over the returns, we have selected
the most remarkable. In the diocese of Chichester,
the rectory of Hardham, which in 1811 contained
eighty-nine persons, has received six augmentations
by lot, or 1200l. The vicarage of Sollington, with
forty-eight people, has had six augmentations, 1200l.
In the diocese of Salisbury, Brewilham drew a prize;
it contained fourteen people. Rotwood drew an-
other; it had twelve people. Calloes had 1000l. in-
cluding a benefaction of 200l.; its population was in
1811, nineteen. In the diocese of Winchester, Saint
Swithin, with twenty-four people, has received SOOl.
including a benefaction of 200l. ; and 200l. has been
expended on Ewhurst, which has seven people. In
the diocese of York, Ruthewick, 'with sixty-two
people, has had five prizes, lOOOl.; while Armby,
with 2941 people, and Allendale, with 3884, have
gained only on& each. In the diocese of Rochester,
two livings, with twenty-eight and twenty-nine
people, received separate augmentations. ln the
T2
276 PRIEITCB.APT
diocese of Oxford, Elford, or Yelford, with sixteea
inhabitants, drew a prize. In Lincoln, Stowe, with
the same number, and Haugh, received 800l. The
number of all its inhabitants is eight. When it is
considered too, that Haugh pays vicarial tithes, which
amounted in the reign of Henry VIII. to 6l. 13.9. 441.
of yearly value, it must be admitted that this im-
portant district has been guarded against the danger
of schism, with a liberality worthy of a Protestant
government. If the rest of the people of England
were fortified in sound doctrine, at the same rate of
expense, the proper establishment of religious teaehen
in England and Wales would cost about 1200 JDilo.
lions sterling, and 1,500,000 parochial clergy, wbo,
as Dr. Cove allows each of them a family of nine,
would fonn a considerable portion of the popnlatioll.
In the diocese of Landaff we find two places follow-
ing each other in the returns, which illustrate the
equity of le sort des dez. Usk, with 1339 people,
has had an augmentation, though its value remains
low. Wilcock, a rectory with twenty..eight people,
has bad three. .In Hereford, Hopton-Cangeford baa
had 1000l. for thirty-five people. Monmouth, 2001.
for 3503.
" Even in cities, where the scattered condition of
the population could afford no pretext against dae
union of parishes, the same plan of augmentatioos
has been pursued. In Winchester, separate aug-
mentations have been given to seven parishes, tie
population of all which would, united, have amounted
to 2376, and would consequently have formed a wry
manageable, and rather small town parish. In short,
the whole of the returns printed by the hou~e of
commons in 1815, No. 115, teem with mstancee of
the m?a~ foolish extravagance,-just such a result u
the ong~.nal conception·of this clerical little-go wcnald
Coogle
lN ALL AG.E.B, 277
have led any rational being to anticipate. The con-
viction ia irresistibly forced upon us, that nothing
could have been further from the minds of those who
superintended this plan, tlian to secure a competent
provision for all the members of the church, and to
remove the poverty of some of its members,-which
~ by a strange manner of reasoning, made a defence
for the needless profusion with which the public
wealth is lavished upon others. Indeed, we are led
wSlllpect, that ' the church, in her corporate capa-
c:ity,' looks upon the poverty of some of her members
as sturdy beggars look upon their sores ; she is not
aeriously displeased with the naked and excoriated
condition of her lower extremities, so long as it
excites an ill-judged compassion for the whole body,
aad secures her impunity in idleness and rapacity.
" We are sometimes told tltat the poverty of a
large body of tlte parochial clergy is such that it is
out of the power of the higher clergy, even by the
su:mmder of tlteir whole revenues, to remedy it. The
ttatement we have given shews most clearly that this
poverty is to be attributed, in the first place, to tlte
fraudulent subtraction of the higher clergy from tlte
burden of contributing to the relief of their poorer
brethren; and, in tlte second place, to the absurdity
of the ecclesiastical division of the kingdom, which,
on the slightest effort of the clergy, would have been
remedied by the legislature. If the first-fruits and
tenths had been paid subsequently to the gif~ of
Amle, according to the rate which the law provided
for, and as tltey had been paid, ' without grief or
contradiction,' i. e. according to the real value of the
benefices, instead of a million and half, at least 30
millions would have been raised from these taxes ;-
.a 8\lJD. not only quite sufficient to have removed the
poverty of all tlte poor livings in the kingdom, but to
Coogle
278 PBJESTCBAFT
have established sch90ls in every pariah of England,
and to have left a large surplus for other useful
purposes.
" In the course of these augmentations no security
has been taken against non-residence, or plurality.
The governors go on, therefore, increasing the incomes
of two small livings, in order to make each of them
capable of supporting a resident clergyman ; while
after, as well as before the augmentation, one incum-
bent may hold them together-reside on neither-and
allow only a small part of the accumulated income to
a curate, who performs the duty of both !"
This absurd system, which is at once an insult to
the memory of Queen Anne, and to the whole British
nation, has been continued to the present moment.
By the returns made to the present parliament, the
same shameful additions to rich livings, of that which
was intended to have gone to poor ones, are made
apparent; the same shamelessly miserable payment
of the curates, who do the actual work for which the
money is received by the selfish and the idle, has been
continued. It is not within the compass of this
volume to go at great length into these details ;-a
sample will suffice. These cases were lately addueed
by Lord King in the house of peers.
"Dean and Canon of Windsor, impropriator of the
following parishes, received from parliamentary grant
and Queen Anne's Bounty :-Plymsted, 1811, 6001.;
1812, 4001.; 1815, 3001. Plympton, --, 6001.
St. German's, 1811, 8001.; 1814, 4001. Wembury,
1807, 2001.; 1816,14001. Northam, 1764,2001.;
1812, 400l. South Moulton, 1813, 6001.
"Dean and Canon of Winchester, impropriaton o(
tithes of two large parishes in Wales :-Holt, 1725,
200/. ; 1733, 2001. lscoyd, 1749, 2001. ; 11157,
200l.; 1798, 200l.; 1818, 2001.
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AG.BS. 279
"Dean ofExeter,impropriator of tithe :-Landkey1
1775, 200l.; 1810, 200l.; 1815, 1400l. Swimbed,
1750,200L; 1811,400l.
" Dean and Chapter of Carlisle, impropriators of
valuable tithe :-Hesket, 1813, 600l.; 1815, 20001.
to purchase land ; 1816, 3001. ; 1817, 3001.
" Dean of Bangor, impropriator of tithe (curate
paid 32l. 4s.) :-Gyfti.n, 1767, 200l.; 1810, 200l.;
1816, 1400l.
" Bishop of Bangor, impropriator of valuable tithe
(eiuate paid 30l. 12s.) ;-Llandegar, 1812, 200l.;
1815, 1600l. ;--, 300l.; --, 300l.
" Bishop of Litchfield, impropriator of large tithes
in Merionethshire (curate paid only 27l.) :-Tallylyr,
18()8, 200l.; 1816, 14001. Penal, 1810, 2001."
Thus these returns proved, that for thirteen
parishes these Rev. Gentlemen had drawn 14,5001.
which ought to have been paid from their own
pockets.
The Edinburgh Review, in the same able article
above quoted, says-" Those who complain of the
:Poverty of the clergy, pretend to suppose that no
security for residence is necessary ; and, that as soon
as the small livings are raised high enough, non-
residence will disappear as a matter of course. For
instance, Dr. Cove says, 'all the church of England's
sons are, with few exceptions, ever intent on their
appropriate duties ; and would be still more diligent
were each of them possessed of a more enlarged and
comfortabLe independence, and furnished with more
suitable abodes.' This, unfortunately for the doctor,
is more capable of being brought to the test than the
'unrecorded revelation' to Adam in favour of tithes.
We have returns of small livings, and we have
returns of non-residence. In the diocese of Rochester
there are only six livings under 1501. a year, and of
"" ,,Coogle
280 PJ&lB'STC:UFl'
taose six. not one is retumed under 1101. Of the
107 benefices returned in that dioce~~e, there weJ.~e. in
1809, but 50 with resident incumbents-less than
half the livings. In the diocese o£ Cheater, whae
the livings under 150l. a year are numerous, 377 oal
of 592 being of that description, a considerably larger
proportion of the benefices have residents tban in
RocheBter-there are 327 resi4ents. In other ~
ceses the number of poor livings bears no regular
proportion to the number of non-residents. The fact
is, that under the discipline of the church of Ent-
land, where there are so many grounds of exemption
or of license for non-residence, the only persoos who
may be expected to reside, are thoee whoee narrow
incomes make their residence in their own panonages
a matter of necessity or convenience.
I shall speedily have occasion to shew that in all
countries where the incomes of the clergy are mo-
derate, there the clergy themselves are at once the
most attentive to their duties, and most respected and
beloved by the people. For the present, the followiug
statement from ·the CarH&le Jotwflal will afford a
strikillg confirmation of the justice of these remarb;
&lld so impressive an example of the shameleu plu-
:ralitiesof the higher clergy, and the miserable JJWUMJl'
of their paying the poor labouring curates, aa may
render further selections superfluous.
PLURALITIES, AND CURATES' STIPENDS.
Small as is the see of Carlisle, it affords some
admirable specimens of the working of the church
system, and of these we will now give a sample. ADd
first of the pluralists, we have-
Hugh Percy, bishop of Carlisle, a prebend of 8&.
Paul's, and a Chancellor of Sarnm.
R. Hodgson, dean of Carliele, vicar of Burgh-oo-
IJr ALT. A.GJIS. !81
Sands, rector of St. George's, Hanover-square, and
vicar of Hillington.
E. Goodenough, prebend of Carlisle, Westminster,
and York; vicar of Wath All Saints on Dearn,
chaplain of Adwici:, and chaplain of Brampton-
Bierlow.
S. 1. Goodenough, prebend of Carlisle, rector of
Broughton Poges, v.icar of Hampton, and deputy
lord-lieutenant of Cumberland.
Wm. Goodenough, archdeacon of Carlisle, rector
of Marcham-le-Fen, and rector of Great Salkeld.
W. Vansittart, D.D., prebend of Carlisle, master
of Wigston's Hospital, Leicester, vicar of Waltham
Abbas, and vicar of Shottesbrooke.
W. Fletcher, chancellor of the diocese of Carlisle,
prebend ofYork, vicar of Bromfield, vicar of Dalston,
and vicar of Lazenby.
It is not our intention, at present, to inquire into
the incomes of these dignitaries ; but as they are
pretty considerable, it may be worth while just to
eontrast the salaries they award to those who really
work, with the moneys they receive from the livings.
The tithes received by the Dean and Chapter for
liesket, amount to lOOOl. or 15001. a-year; they
pay to the curate who does the duty 18l. 5a. a-year!
-that is to say, Is. a-day-being after the rate of
the bricklayer's labourer's wages! In Wetheral and
Warwick, the Dean and Chapter draw about 1OOOl.
a-year from tithes, and 10001. a-year from the church
lands ; and they pay the working minister (probably
one of the most exemplary and beloved men in
England in his station) the sum of 50l. a-year-the
wages of a journeyman cabinet maker r The tithes
of the parishes of St. Cuthbert and St. Mary, amount
at the least to 15001, a-year. The two curates (who
do the duty) receive each the sum of 2l. 13a. 4d.
a-year! ! ! And then, to the minor canons, who do
"Coogle
282' l'IUESTCRAPT
the cathedral duty (such as it i11), they pay the sum
of 6s. 8d. a-year each! The Dean and Chapter hold
sev~ other impropriate rectories, pay the curates
a mere nominal sum for performing the duties, and
pocket the tithes themselves-for doing nothing!
The Rev. W. Pullen, rector of J..ittle Gidding,
Huntingdonshire, asserts in a pamphlet of his, that a
late bishop held twelve places of prefel'I}}.ent at the
same time, and the greaternumber parochial benefices!
With such things as these before our eyes,-and
which way can we turn and not see them ?-who can
believe that the British public can much longer suffer
the church to remain unregenerated ? Look where
we will, we behold the most gross instances of
simony, pluralities, non-residence, and penurious
remuneration of the working clergy. But of these
matters in the next chapter :-two other ramifications
of the establishment which require reform-Eccle-
siastical Courts and the Universities, I must pasaingly
notice, and then close this.
These two organs and auxiliaries must neceuarily
come within the sweep of any reform which visits
effectually the church ;-they are vital parts of that
great priestly system which has so long rested in ease
and comfort on the shoulders of this much-enduring
country. As their reform is a necessary consequence
of that of the church, I shall say less of them ; but
they involve enormities of such a nature, as nothing
but the apathy induced by long custom could have
brought Englishmen to tolerate.
The universities, founded and endowed by kings
and patriotic men, for the general benefit and encon•
ragement of learning in the nation, are monopo-
lized by the priests of the establishment. All offices
in tllem are in their hands ; no layman, much less
a dissenter, can hold a post in tllem. The Thirty-
nine Articles are set up like so many Giants Despair,
"'Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 283
to ·drive away with their clubs of intolerance all who
will not kiss their feet. These chartered priests
grasp the emoluments and the immunities of these
ancient seats of learning, and triumphantly tell us of
the great men which the establishment has produced.
This is a little too much for the patience of any but
an Englishman. Had the gates of these great schools
been thrown open to the whole nation for whose
benefit they were established, and to the popular
spirit of improvement which has been busy in the
world, they might have told us of thousands more as
great, as good, and far wiser, inasmuch as they would
have been educated in an atmosphere of a more
liberal and genial character. As it is, they have
lagged, like the establishment to which they are
linked, behind the spirit ofthe age, to adegree which
has disgusted the most illustrious even of their own
sons. It never was my lot to make a practical
acquaintance with the advantages or abuses of either
of them ; but, if the best authorities are to be trusted,
the devil never found himself more in his element,
since he descended from his position in the Tree
of Knowledge in the Garden of Eden, to mount
those of Oxford and Cambridge.
There is a party which has given its testimony to
the state of the Universities as to morals, which has
not hitherto been brought forward-my own society ;
and as it so completely corroborates the general de-
cision on the character of these schools, I shall here
give one passage from B~sse's " Sufferings of the
People called Quakers," vol. 1, p. 565.-" The stu-
dents at Oxford had a short time before fallen on
two women, Friends, who presumed to preach in the
town, and to advise there some youngsters to amend-
ment of life ; they dragged these females to the pump
of St. John's college, pumped on their necks and into
284 PlliESTCL\F'r
their mouths till they were almost dead ; after which
they tied them arm to arm, md inhumanly d.ragpcl
them up and down the college, and through a .JI'I»l
of water; and finally fiung one of them, Eliza-
beth Fletcher, a young woman, over a grave.atone
into a grave, with such violence that she died in COB•
aequence. But now (this was in 1658), these :reJi.
gousstudents-these embryo-prophets of a aatiOD-
" came into a meeting there, and drew a Friend Gut
by the hair of the head ; the proctw himself p&llad
1ohn Shackerly by the hair, and out of doon, from
Richard Bettina's house, and violently thruJt OM&
others. And several times the scholars have darown
stooes and dirt at Friends, and broke the doc.. to
pieces ; and broke the windows several times ; Mlli
took away the·key of the door; and knock~ tenter-
hooks into the key-hole ; and pulled up part of the
porch. And came into the meeting, and turn~ up
the seats which Friends sat on ; and rid upaa the
backs of men and women like wild horses ; aud
brought gunpowder and squibs, and fired them, aad
set the room on a smoke, and among people under
their clothes, like to set the house on fire, and tD
undo people ; and have shot bullets amongst .lo'ri811ds
to knock out their eyes ; stamping wildly aod 'liD·
ruly, like tavern fellows, crying, GitJe u.t b«r ,.,j
tobacco I And the scholars have come into the meet-
ings among the people of God, and called for weuha.
or harlots, like fellows that haunt bewdy--holl818:
and brought strong beer into the meetings, aad drank
to Friends; and because they have refuaea to driDk.;
ha'le thrown it on their necks and clothes, ad
bands ; and have rnmg bawdy songs, and C\llllell: -
swore. And several times came into the m~
blowing and puffing with tobacco-pipes in talir
~utha, cursing, swearing, and stamping, makiag-de
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 285
house shake again, and insulted the women too
ahamefully for description. And the scholars have
oome into the meeting to act Tobit and his dog; and
one of them divided his filthy stuff into uses and
points after the manner of the priests ; and another
raised doctrines of a tinker and a cobbler, and many
more wicked actions, by mockings and scoffings and
filthy language. And these scholars have been so
shameless, that after meeting, they have pressed in by
violence, and took meat from off the table ; took the
bread and the pottage out of the pot; like greedy dogs
lapping them up ; and stole and carried away the
Friends' books. One friend they dragged into
hhA'a college, threw beerupon him, struck and beat
IDd punched him till he lost his consciousness ; and
then thrust pins into his 1lesh, and kept him there
IIOfllng at him, and asking him-' If the Spirit ditl
110t mooe him taow ? '
" But I am weary," says Besse, " of transcribing
their abominations, and shall cease with this remark,
which, however severe, is just and natural, viz,-
Had thoae 1cholars been e:xpressly educated for mini.!-
terB (}f the DerJil, they could not hafJe girJen more eer-
t«M ·proofs uftheir proficiency."
There is so much of the fidelity of nature in this
ICOOunt, strange as it is, that one cannot for a mo-
ment doubt it: yet we imagine ourselves got rather
amongat the wild BIIIT'schen of Germany than the
yOGth of England.
, To the two great popular journals of Edinburgh
Md Westminster, the country is indebted for several
moat able expositions of the abuses of both spiritual
«n1rta and uniTersities; and the latter in No; XXIX,
tpeaks thus-" The rel!l.ts a11d fines arisingfrom broad
laade, amongst the most fait ·and fertile in the realm ;
lzom·!Mdly manon and goodly fanns; the profits of
Coogle
286 PlUESTCRAIT
the advowsons of numerous and valuable benefices-;
.tithes, and tolls, and every advantage that earth can
yield; palaces, for such indeed are most of our
colleges, for the habitation of the learned ; noble
churches, halls, libraries, and galleries for their use
and delight, with gardens, groves, and pleasure-
grounds ; plate, and pictures, and marbles ; a count-
less store of hidden books and MSS., as well aa a
more vulgar wealth accumulated in vast sums of
money, yielding interest in the funds, or upon mort,.
gage. How strange would the large opulence appear,
.were the inventory correctly taken, to the inhabitants
of foreign universities, which nevertheless are ac-
counted wealthy ; and not less strange to its rightful
owners, the people of England, to a brave, generous
and loyal people, who have been ready in all ages to
contribute largely from their store to works of learn-
ing and piety, but who have been ill-requited by their
rulers.
" Astonishing is the wealth of our universities,
greatly exceeding the sum of all the possessions o(
all the other learned bodies in the world ; yet would
it be an unfair and injurious statt>ment to affirm, that
not a single shilling of their enormous income is truly
applied to the purposes for which it was designed l
The accusation is still more grave ; not only do these
corporations neglect to furnish any direct encourage-
ment to the studious, but they offer much positive
discouragement. The sedulous youth who entered
the walls of his college thirsting for honourable dD-
tinction, can best tell how his ardent curiosity was
chilled by the oscitancy, the inertness, the narrow
.illiberality of those to whom he looked for assiatuce,
excitement, and support. The favour that Locke
found at Oxford is matter of history : Gibbon hu
recorded his contemptuous scom for ' the monks cJ.
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 287
Magdalene.' It would be easy to name other chil-
dreu of genius, who have proved that the self-styled
al71Ut mater wa.s a most unjust and cruel step-mother.
" Amongst the evils ofecclesiastical sway, there is a
mischief which annuls our universities, and destroys
their very existence for every purpose of utility ; it
arises out of their spiritual constitution, and converts
establishments that ought to be schools of learning,
into race-courses and amphitheatres, wherein compe-
titors and gladiators, as worthless as our jockeys, or
the Thracians of old, struggle, or collude, to get pos-
session of livings. This is the grand, the sole object
of academical existence ; the pursuit of learning is
the :flimsy pretext-the real aim is to obtain prefer-
ment in the church. The cause of the evil must
be instantly removed; we will speak briefly of its
operation. An university ought to be, and at all
other places except Oxford and Cambridge really
is, one establishment, every part co-operating for
the augmentation and communication of knowledge.
Simony, in its most pernicious form, has destroyed
at once the unity and utility of institutions which we
would gladly venerate. Ancient schools, designed
for the use of the whole body, still exist at Oxford,
to attest the degradation of modern times ; each of
these is inscribed with the title of one of the liberal
sciences, or of one of the faculties, but it is never
applied to the use for which it was designed. Nume-
rous professors are decorated with honourable titles,
and receive salaries for giving various lectures, which
are never delivered ; or if, as sometimes happens,
an obstinate statute, which cannot be neglected or
evaded, compels him to discourse in public, the dis-
honest priest gives what are significantly called ' wall-
Jectures,' since he addresses himself to the walls
~one ; and it is generally understood that no one
PII.IBS'lC&APT
ought to stand between them and their teaeher.
Unless these abuses be speedily remedied, it is mani-
feat.that the march of mind, ofwhich some now boast,
is a retreat, a shameful flight ; and ·if the school-
JDoaatel' he indeed abroad, as some affirm, it is because
h~ is not at home : having robbed his scbolan, the
~oundrel has al1sconded.
" The university of Oxford has long ceased to
ellist, except for the purpose of electioneering : for
some time it was doubtful whether it was creditable
to represent its M. M. A. A. in parliament; but the
dispute bas been finally determined, and we may
reasonably question, whether an unworthy abuae of
almost unbounded patronage be not too high a price
to pay for the credit, whatever it be, that arises .from
Bitting for the sister university. Except for the pUP-
pose of vain pageants, designed to aucupate benefices,
by cajoling the patrons, the university of Oxford hb
long ceased to exist ; for the purposes of learning it
baa been annihilated, dissolved, and destroyed, by
having been divided into many minute, insignificant,
and worthless portions. There are about t\rlrty col-
leges ;-the system of education, if it deserve that
name, is separate and distinct at each, and miserable
in all : the greater part of the funds, and the best
apartments of every college, are set apart for a priest
who, under the name of master, provost, warden,
principal, or the like, enjoys, at the expense of the
pllblic, every luxury that the most sensual could
desire ; yet this person contributes as little to tlle
inatruction of the youth of his society, as the Chief
of the .Black Eunuchs in the Grand Sultan's seraglio.
or the Jew who takes toll at one of the turnpikes
ne.r London• A stranger would suppose that, heiJig
thus·pampered in idlenesa, and growing tat upoa ~
appropri~Aan, of charitable funds, tlte reVerelld .U..
, . ,,Coogle
Il'f ALL A&KI.
curiat, through a certain decoroua tbame, would be
at least civil and Wlpr8111Dling; we appeal to thoae
who are expenenced in the deportmllll$ of contume-
lious insolence, whether it be so.
" The residua of the funds of the college is waated
upon a long list of fellows, the greater part of whom
are absentees, and are alike unwilliDg and incapable
of eaming their salaries. The lowest and least of
tane ia uaually the tutor;-with or without the uaiet-
ace of a drudge, still more unworthy than himself,
thia poor hack endeavours, by a few wretclted lee•
turee, to eonceal the total want of all sound and
wholelome instruction, and the monstroua misap-
plioation of the wealth of the nation. He is often a
~ of low birth, whom laziness or physical infirmity
rendered unfit for the 1lail or the loom ; and, having
availed himself of some eleemosynary foundation,
he hM won his way to an office which ought to be
aecounted honourable, but, by the accwnulation of
the grouett abuses, has been rendered aervile. If tiM
upiring clown had elevated himself by a generou11
excellence, 'by a pre-eminence in ·liberal learning, his
.low birth, far from being a stain, would shed a lustre
upon his new atation; but, under the present unhappy
ocmatitution of our univenities, these mushrooms are
culled for deleterious, not for wholesome propertiea.
If his birth was low, his mind is commonly lower;
he is not selected on account of his learning, but of
hia subserviency. When a teacher of gentle blood ia
taken, itmay happen perchance, that although he waa
bom a freeman, he has the soul of a slave. The
fellowships in like manner, are for the most part eon•
ferred upon kinsmen, upon tools, upon all but those
wao are beat entitled.to hold them. It may be that,
with much pomp and ceremony, and aa oatenta&ioua
di8play,ef the. fa.vour ahewa to Jatera, .101111 litde
v•
Coogle
~90 P&lESTCJlAFT
proficient in the course of elementary instruction,
prescribed to keep up the shew of attention to edu-
cation, ia now and .then put into posaession of one of
those valuable annuities ; but the yawiring sluggard,
the dull sot, is generally deemed more eligible than
the zealous scholar.
" Let us suppose, ~owever, that all fellowships
were fairly bestowed upon the young men who were
most worthy .to hold them, still would our univer-
sities fall far short of that utility which we have an
unalienable right to insist upon reaping from our
public domains. In the case we have supposed, all
improvement would cease at the end of the first year
of academical residence; after taking the first degree,
there would be no motive to advance further on the
road to learning. Each college would be, as it now
is, a clerical tontine; an abominable institution, alike
hostile to learning and subversive of piety. Surely
our sagacious, clear-headed fellow-countrymen are
not aware that every one of the numeroua colleges
which they maintain at such an enormous cost, is
merely a clerical toBtine ! The instant a young man
is elected a fellow, he has but one object-to outlive
his bretbren'-and thus to receive, in succession, the
valuable benefices attached to his college, which were
designed to reward the most learned, but which are
blindly and dishonestly banded over to the longest
liver."
Now, what is. thus written in 'the present day, is
exactly of the same stamp aa what was uttered by
Gibbon :-" The schools of Oxford and Cambridge
were founded in a dark age of false and barbaroua
science ; and they are still tainted with the vioea of
their origin. Their primitive discipline was adapted
to the education of priests and monks ; aad their
government is still in the hand& of the cl~-u
IN ALL AGES. 291
t~rder of men whose manners are remote from the
present world, and whose eyes are dazzled by the
light of philosophy." Nay, it is exactly the same as
what Milton wrote in his time. We hear those who
have studied there, continually declaring that the
~stem of education pursued is infinitely behind that
given by dissenters to their ministers, so far as it
regards their real preparation for the office of Christian
teachers. I have frequently heard young men declare
that they had no need to study there. With a certain
quantity of mathematics, or of Greek and Latin, they
could take a degree, and that was enough. So it
must have been in Milton's days. "They pretend
that their education, either at school or university,
hath been very chargeable, and therefore ought to
be repaired in future by a plentiful maintenance ;
whereas it is well known that the better half of them
are ofttimes poor and pitiful boys ; that having no
merit, or promising hopes, that might entitle them to
the public provision, but their poverty, and the unjust
favour of friends, have had their breeding both at
school and university at the public cost; which might
engage them the rather to give freely~ as they have
freely received. ·
"Next, it is a fond error, though too much believed
among us, to think that the university makes a
minister of the gospel. That it may conduce to other
arts and sciences, I dispute not now; but that which
makes fit a minister, the-
Scriptures can best tell us to
be only from above. How shall they preach, unless
they be sent? By whom sent? By the university,
or the magistrate, or their belly? No, surely; but
sent from God only, and that God who is not their
belly. And whether he be sent from God, or from
Simon Magus, the inward sense of his calling and
ipiritual ability will sufficiently tell him.
u2
Coogle
292 Pal.ESTCaAl'T
" But yet, they say, it is also requisite he should
be trained up in other learning, which can be had no
where better than at the universities. I answer, that
what learning, either human or divine, can be neces-
sary to a Ininiater, may as easily and le11s cluugeably
be had in any private house. How deficient else,
and to how little purpose are all those piles of sermons,
notes, and comments on all parts of the Bible,-
bodies and marrows of divinity, beaide all other
aciences in our English tongue ; many of the same
books yhich in Latin they read at the univenity I
And the small necessity of going there to learn Di·
vinity I prove first from the most part of themselves,
who seldom continue there till they have well got
through logick, their first rudiments. And th01e
theological disputations there held by profesaon and
graduates, are aueh as tend least of all to the edifi.
cation or capacity of the people, but rather perplex
and leaven pure doctrine with scholaatical trash, than
enable any lniniater to the better preaching ol the
gospel."-Miltoo on Hireling•.
When past. and present authorities thus agree to
describe the great universities of the nation, wo be
to that nation if it do not breakt the alumben of
these clerical drones, throw wide the gates to the
influx of real knowledge, and of all those who thirst
for k.no.
wledge, that we may never more hear of such
men as Locke being expelled for their love of free.
dom, or Wesley for their piety.
Of the continuance of ecclesiastical courts to thiJ
enlightened period, what shall we aay,-but that
Englishmen are a moat patient race 1 A dark and
mysterious assemblage, as of bats and owls I A. IOJ't
of Inquisition, shorn of. ita power .by public opinion,
and lllliered by public opinion to exist.. Priats,
allowed no lCJII8ell to llllDIIilml. .men. to their hidda
IR' ALL AGES, 293
tribunals, and rack their persons, but permitted still
to seize on their wills with rude hands, and rack their
purses without mercy! Clerical peers and clerical
legislators are anomalous enough; but clerical taxers
of orphans, and clerical guardians of testamentary
documents, are still more anomalous. Here is a
popish institution existing in a protestant country,
which even popish countries have abandoned, and
conveyed its functions into the hands oflaymen! Our
wise Saxon ancestors sufi'ered nothing of this kind
amongst them: it is true, they permitted bishops to
take their seats in the civil courts to protect their
own rights, but it remained for the Norman invader
to concede to Rome this dangerous privilege ·or cleri-
cal courts. Time and knowledge have thrown into
desuetude moat of those powers by which they for-
merly harassed our forefathers. They no longer
trouble themselves about the reformation ofmanners,
the punishing of heresy ; nor do churchwardens care
to present scandalous livers to the bishop: but refuse
to pay a fee, and they will speedily "curse thee to
thy face." They are, in fact, a sort of obscure and
dusty incorporations, for collecting and enjoying good
revenues, under the names of bishop, surrogates,
proctors, registrars, deputy-registrars, and so forth,
from fees on wills, consecrations, and various other
sources and immunities. For the greediness of these
clerical owls in palit days, let any one consult
Chaucer. The worthy Lyon-king-at-arms of Scot-
~and, Sir David Lindsay of the Mount, also made
merry with them in his days:- •
MArry, I lent my gossip my mare to fetch home coa!a,
And he her drowned in the quarry holes,
And I ran to the conaistorie, for to pleinze,
And there I fell among a greedy meinze.
They gave me first a thing they call cilan.dum;
Within eight daya I got but lihellandum;
294- l'RIESTCRAFT
Within a month I got ad apponendum;
In half a year I got inter loqU£ndum;
And then 1 got-how call ye it!-ad replicandum;
But I could never a word yet understand 'em.
And then they made me pull out many placks1
And made me pay for four and twenty acts;
But ere they came half way to concludendum,
The devil a plack was left for to defend him.
Thus they postponed me two years with their train ;
Then, hodie ad octo, bade me come again.
And then, their rooks, they croaked wonderous fast;
For sentence-silver they cried at the last.
Of pronunciandum, they made me wonder fain,
But I never got my good grey mare again!
This is spoken in the character of a poor man;
another character then adds:-
My Lords, we must reform these consistory laws,
Whose great defame, above the heaven blows.
I knew a man, in sueing for a cow,
Ere he had done, he spent full half a bow.•
So that the king's honour we may advance,
We w•ll conclude as they have done in France;
Let spiritual matters pass to spiritualitie,
And temporal matters unto temporalitie.
Satyre of Thm! Estoiles.
Whoever would see what troublesome and extor-
tionate nuisances these courts are, has only to consult
the voluminous returns made to parliament in 1829
on this subject. Amongst the lesser evils of the
system are the consecration of burial grounds, and
what are called surplice fees. Nothing is more
illustrative of the spirit of priestcraft, than that the
church should have kept up the superstitious belief
in the consecration of ground, in the minds of the
people to the present hour, and that, in spite of edu-
cation, the poor and the rich should be ridden with
the most preposterous notion, that they cannot lie in
peace except in ground over which the bishop has
• Half a fold of cows.
Coogle
IN ALL AGBSo 295
said his mummery, and for which he and his rooks,
as Sir David Lindsay calls them, have pocketed the
fees, and laughed in their sleeves at the gullible fool-
ishness of the people. When will the day come, when
the webs of the clerical spider shall be tom, not only
from the limbs, but the souls of men? Dolls the
honest Quaker sleep less sound, or will he arise less
cheerfully at the judgment-day from his grave, over
which no prelatical jugglery has been practised, and for
which neither prelate nor priest has pocketed a doit?
Who has consecrated the sea, into which the British
sailor in the cloud of battle-smoke descende, or who
goes down, amidst the tears of his comrades, to
depths to which no plummet but that of God's omni-
presence ever reached? Who has consecrated the
battle-field, which opens its pits for its thousands and
tens of thousands; or the desart, where the weary
traveller lies down to his eternal rest? Who has
made holy the sleeping-place of the solitary mission-
ary, and of th~ settlers in new lands? Who but He
whose hand has hallowed earth from end to end, and
from surface to centre-for His pure and almighty
fingers have moulded it! Who but He whose eye
rests on it day and night, watching its myriads of
moving children-the oppressors and the oppressed-
the deceivers and the deceived-the hypocrites, and
the poor, whose souls are darkened with false know-
ledge, and fettered with the bonds of daring selfish-
ness? and on whatever innocent thing that eye rests;
it is hallowed beyond the breath of bishops, and the
fees of registrars. Who shall need to look for a con-
secrated spot of earth to lay his bones in, when the
struggles and the sorrows, the prayers and the tears
of our fellow men, from age to age, have consecrated
every atom of this world's surface to the desire of a
repose which no human hands can lead to, no human
Coogle
PJUB&TCKAJ!'T
rites ean aeeuref Who &ball Beet for a more ~~al­
lowed bed. than the bosom of that earth into which
Christ himself descended, and in which the bodies of
tGoull&llda of glorioua patriarchs, and prophets, and
martyrs, who were leid in gardens, and beneath their
paternal trees, and of heroes, whose blood and sighs
.have flowed forth for their fellow men, have been left
to pe$Ce, and the blessings of grateful generatioDJ,
with no rites, no sounds but the silent falling of tean,
and the aspirations ofspeechless, but immortal thanks!
From aide to side, from end to end, the whole world
is sanctified by these agencies, beyond the blessings
or the curses of priests! God's aunshine fiows over
it-his providence surrounds it; it is rocked in his
arms, like the child of his eternal love ; his faithtal
creatures live, and toil, and pray in it ; and, in tbe
name of heaven, who shall make it, or who can need
it holier, for his last resting couch! But the greedi-
ness of priests persists in cursing the poor with
extortionate expenses, and calls them blessings. The
poor man, who all his days goes groaning under the
load of his ill-paid labours, cannot even escape from
them into the grave, except at a dismal charge to hia
family; his native earth is not allowed to receive
him into her bosom, till he has satiafied the priest
and his satellitea. With the exception of leWI,
Quakers, and some few other dissenters, every IDMl
is given up in England as a prey, in life and in
death, to the parson, and his echo, and his disturber
of bones.
The following, from the Leeu MIJf'Ctjry, is not
quite a fair example of the expense incurred for what
ia called consecration of the smalleat addition to a
burial-ground-for in some dioceses the charge is
46l., and, it ia said, the chargefor the consecration of
a church has often been from 1OOl. to 300l.
Coogle
To the churchwardens of Tadcaster wu ant the
following letter:-
(coPY).
Gentlemen,-! BeDd you endoaed the eharps Oil the co--
cration of the additional churchyard at Tadcaaler.
I am, Gentlemen, yol,ll' obedient servant,
JOSEPH BUCKLE.
York, 26th March, 1829.
Fees on eonleCftlion of the additional Bnrial-groand
at Tadcaater.
1828. £. '· d.
Drawing and engrOIISing the petition to the Arch-
bishop to CODaecrate - - • • - • 1 6 0
Drawing and engrouing the aentence of cOIIIeCl'&tion 2 2 0
Drawing the Act • • • - - • 0 13 6
Registering the aboYe instruments and the deed at
len~th; and ~archment - 2 2 0
The Chancellors fee • • 5 0 0
The principal Registrar'1 fee • • • - 6 0 0
The Secretary'• fee • - - - • - 6 0 0
The Deput,Y Registrar's attendance and expenses • 3 15 6
The Appantor'a fee - • 1 1 0
Fee on obtaining the seal - 1 1 0
Carriage • 0 6 0
£27 5 0
For burying a poor man, this is the common scale
of charge in this town :-For the burial of even a
pauper, 7•. 6d.-for a child 1ix months old, the same
-if the child be not baptized, 18, ; for in that state
it is, by clerical logic, deemed not a human being,
but a thiJlg, until their mummery bas ennobled it-
a thing beneath God's notice-it is therefore thrust
into any hole by the sexton. In the principal
churchyard, a man who wishes to choose the place of
burial, must pay lOl. for the size of a grave; and
for opening such a grave, about 21. 151. 6d. For
permission to lay down a flat stone, which used to
be ll. la., now 3l. 3a.! For an upright stone, 1Oa. 6d.
For liberty to clean his father'• grave-stone, the viear
Google
298 PRIESTCBAFT
of·Newark charged a man the other day, 2s. 6d. There
is nothing connected with the church, but must be
paid for. Besides the regular fee, the compliment of
.a guines, or more, for a scarf, hatband, and gloves, is
not merely expected, but demanded. There are
many instances, where clergymen have refused to
take a corpse into the church, where these were
denied. From opulent people, a compliment of five
guineas is looked for at marriages ; at christenings, a
guinea. By this greediness of filthy lucre, our finest
ecclesiastical buildings, and professedly the temples of
God, are degraded into regular shew-shops; especially
those magnificentpiles, St. Paul'sCathedral, andWest-
minster Abbey. These noble buildings, to which are
attached immense revenues, are not merely made
traps for daily gains from a laudable curiosity, but
of enormous sums on public occasions ; particularly,
the coronations in the latter bring mines of gold to
the chapter. Yet it is to the clergy we owe it, that
we do not possess in St. Paul's the finest ecclesias-
tical building in the world. Sir Christopher Wren
had resolved that it should be so; and had drawn,
with all his skill, plans for the purpose; but the
clergy who were on the building committee, after
having in vain tried to prevent the old church being
removed at all, resisted its removal, indeed, and
insisted on its being patched up, though Wren de-
clared .it would fall, till it actually tumbled about
their ears,-finally, threw aside his most glorioul
designs, and actually pitched, to his infinite mortifi-
cation, on one which he had sketched as a mere foil.
Rut I digress.-For opening a vault, even in village
churchyards, 51. is commonly demanded; in the
church, lOl.; and what is worst, after all, it has been
pro!ed by m~re than one legal decision, no man's
family vault 1s sacred and inviolable. The church
and churchyard are the parson's freehold. In them.
Gvogk
114' ALL AG.ES, 299
during his life, he can work his own will, but he
cannot sell a right of vault beyond his own life.
There are numbers of families who .flattered them-
selves that they had a place of family sepulture, into
which no·stranger could intrude; but let them excite
the wrath of some clerical parish tyrant, and he can
shew them, that not only can he refuse to pennit the
opening of their vault to receive their dead, till his
demands, however exorbitant, are satisfied, but that
he can refuse to have it opened at all; and, moie-
over, can thrust in, at his pleasure, the carcasses of
the vilest wretches in the parish. Thus, by dealing
with priests; the people are served as they always
have been-juggled out of their money for " that
which is nought;" and thrown into the ab$olute
power of a most mercenary order of men. They are
suffered to buy that which cannot be really sold; and
when they look for a freehold, they find only a trap
for clerical fees. From root to branch the whole
system is rotten;·-GIVE! GIVE! GIVE! is written on
every wall and gate of the church: and though a man
quit it and its communion altogether, he must still
pay, in life and in death, to it. Nay, by a recent
case in the diocese of Salisbury, it is shewn by the
bi;shop that a man once having taken orders can
never lay them down again. A Mr. Tiptaft having
resigned his living, from conscientious motives, began
to preach as a dissenter; but the bishop attempted
to stop his mouth with menacing the thunders of the
church ; and, on his astonished declaration that be
was no longer a son of the church, the prelate let him
know that he was, and must be-for clerical orders,
like Coleridge's infernal fire-must
Cling to him everlastingly.
To this church, which empties the pockets of the
poor, and stops the mouth of the conscientious dis-
senter, let every Englishman do his duty.
soe PRiltiTCUP'f
CHAPTER XIX.
THB ENGLISH CB11RCH--<:OJr'fiNl1BD.
The Church of England ia unpopular. It ia CODnected wi&ll
the crown and the aristocracy, but it ia not regarded with aBectioa
by the maas of the pt!Ople; and this circumstance greatly le81eDB
ita utili~, and has powerfully contributed to mnltiply the Dlllll-
ber of diasenters. EdiftiNf'lh Review, No. lunili.
..We are overdone with atanding armies. We have an army of
lawyen with tough parehments and interminable wonls to COD•
found honesty and common ae~~ae ; aa army of paper to fight
gold ; an army of soldiers to fight the French ; an army of
doctors to fight death ; and an army of panona to fight the
deru-...of whom he atandeth not in awe!
77ae Iaiit JYilliam Foz, ofNflllilqlto&
BuT while the nation demands those alterations just
enumerated, the internal prosperity, nay, the very
existence of the episcopal church, as a vital and fruit·
M Christian community, demand others. And, flat
~ all, that it should be delivered from the cune of
patronage,-the source of a thouaand evils,-the
cause of lamentable moral lethargy and paralysis.
While every Christian society around it enjoys the
Just privilege of choosing ita own ministers, Will ft be
long endured by this church that it should be kept fn
a condition of everlasting tutelage; that its members,
however wise, enlightened, and capable of managing
all their affairs for themselves; who would hold it u
the highest Utkult thai the state Should appOint O'fef•
aeers to choose for their children·schoolmasters, and
IN ALL AGBS, 801
for themselves stewards, attorneys, or physicians,-
will it be endured long that some state favourite who
never saw them, or their place; or some neighbouring
fox-hunting squire, whose intellect, if it exhibit itself
anywhere, is in his boot-heels,-that some horse-
jockey, or gambler, some fellow whose life is a con-
tinual crime, his conversation a continual pestilence ;
who, if be were a poor man, would have .been long
since hanged, but ,being a rich one, he is at once the
choicest son and purveyor of Satan, and the hereditary
selector of the minister of God,-will it be endured
that such a. man shall put in over the heads of a
respectable, pious, and well-informed community, a
spiritual guide and teacher?-put him in, in spite of
their abhorrence and remonstrances? and that once in,
neither patron nor people shall get him out, though
be be dull as the clod of his own glebe, and vicious
as the veriest scum of his parish, who prefers the pot-
bouse to his polluted house of prayer? From thia
source has flowed the most fatal results to the church;
nay, it may be safely asserted, nine-tenths of the
evils which affiict it. By this means it has been filled
with every species of unworthy character ;-men who
look upon it as a prey; who come to it with coldneiS
and contempt; who gather its fruits, while other and
better men toil for them; and squander them in modes
scandalous, not merely to a church, but to hnman
society. By this means it has been made the heritage
of the rich man's children, while the poor and unpa-
tronized man ofworth and talent has plodded on in ita
labours, and despaired. By this means so worldly a
character has grown upon its ministers, that they have
became blind to the vilest enormities of the system,
and now look on simony as a matter of course.
Whoever doubts this-and yet who does doubt it?-
let him look. into..the British. or Clerieal.Magazine.
"" ,,Coogle
302 PB.IESTCRAFT
and he will find the reverend corr~spondents asking
with the utmost simplicity-how can the bishops help
men sellinl§ advowsons ? It never seems once to
occur to them, that if there were no clerical buyers
there would be no sellers. In the same journal for
June, 1832, p. 357, is also the following statement:-
" Of the whole number of benefices in England, very
nearly 8000, (that is, more than two-thirds of the
whole), are in private patronage•. Of the clergy, a
very considerable number have purchased the livings
which they hold; and of the remainder, most have
been brought up to the church, and educated with a
view to some particular piece of preferment in the
gift oftheir family and relations. Whether this be right
or wrong, it is an effect almost necessarily following
from so large a portion of the property of the church
being private property; a state of things not to be
altered, and which they who wish to abolish pluralities
do not talk of altering."
Now here in one sentence, written by a clergyman,
and published in a clerical magazine, we have the
root and ground of three-fourths of the evils and
enormiti'es of the establishment. We have a state-
ment, that out of 10,000 livings in England, nearly
8,000 are in the hands of private people ; that is, in
the hands each of a man who, whatever be his life or
his qualifications for judging, can and does put in a
clergyman· over the heads of his neighbours, to serve
his own views, which are commonly to establish some
rake, or blockhead of a son or nephew, or to make
what money he can out of a stranger, if he has no
children; that is, not to seek the most pious man,
but the highest bidder. And consequently the next
assertion is, that a very considerable number have
purchased these livings ;-Ums, not the pious maa,
l;lut the highest bidder, she boldest dealer in simony
IN ALL AGES. 303
baahad thelivings. Oh I poor people, who are doomed
to sit under such pastors, and vainly hope to grow
in l).eavenly knowledge I The remainder, says this
most logical writer, have been brought up with a
view to some particular piece of preferment from
their friends and relations. Yes, younger sons-no
matter what their heads or their hearts are made of-
doomed to deal out God's threats and promises to the
people. Des1>erate handlers ofGod's sacred things-
who rush fearlessly into his temple, not because he
has called them, but because their relations have the
key of the doors. And all this, this clerical writer
puts forth with the most innocent face imaginable.
While he el}umerates causes enough to have made
St. Paul's hair stand on end; when he tells us that
simony is common as daylight; that the bulk of the
livings in England are not open to the pious and the
worthy, but are the heritage of certain men who may
be neither-he is so far from seeing any thing amiss,
that he goes on to point out the advantage of such a
state of things. He declares it cannot be altered;
and this is one of his reasons why the church should.
not be reformed. He does not at all perceive that
no church with so scandalous and preposterous a
foundation, can possibly stand many years in the
midst of a country where the spirit of man is busily
at work to pry into the nature of all things, and
where any monopoly, but especially of religious pa-
tronage, must assuredly arouse an indignation that
will overturn it. Miserably dark must be the moral
atmosphere of a church where its members come for-
ward with a mental obtuseness like this, to advocate
its abomination!l as if they were virtues, while the
very people gape round them with astonishment,.and
they perceive it not. But there are no labourers i.p
the demolition ofa bad.instituuon lib its own friends.
.PIUBSTClUFT.
They are like insects iD a rotten tree ; roused by eJt•
temal alarm to activity, they bustle about and scatter
the trunk, which holds them. into dust. Such mm
put a patch of new garments into the old garment
of corruption, and the rent is made worse•
.To proceed.-By these means the church hu
been filled with pride and apathy; and it is noto-
rious, that of all Christian ministers, the ministers of
the establishment are the least interested in their
flocks,-eultivate and enjoy the least sympathy with
them. I accidentally, the other day, took up Sir
Arthur Brooke Faulkner's Tom in Germany, and
immediately fell on this passage, which coming flam
a man fresh from the observation of the continental
churches, is worthy of attention. "Nowhere ell8
in Europe are clergymen, and no wonder, less re-
spected among the multitude than in the British
dominipns." He proceeds to account for this, bJ
their l'pathy, their pluralities, their exorbitant reve-
nues, maintenance by tithes, and actingas legislatom.
He adds-" If the statement which has already beea
·alluded to may be credited, the clergy of the United
Kingdoms are paid more than the clergy of all the
rest of christendom besides by a million sterling aDil
upwards, the full amount of their annual revenue
being 8,852,0001. In primitive times, and in tbe
different countries at the present time which I llave
visited, the remuneration of their labour is, u we
have seen, in many cases, chiefty voluntary. Ia
these countries it needs no prelacy strutting in lawa
sleeves, and 'raising their mitred fronts in eoudll
and parliaments,' to clothe i* with respect."
This, in contradiction of the m'&.ey aasertiooa of
the advocates of our English establishment, who coa.-
tend that without dignities and.large revenues die
c:leriY would aillk into contempt, il bome out by t.be
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 305
experience of aU the world. The dignities and large
revenues of the papal church did not embalm its
clergy in public estimation ; and to whatever country
we tum, we find that wherever the clergy are but
moderately endowed, there they are diligent, and there
they are esteemed. What is the opinion of Milton,
of the prefenilents which have been so much vaunted
as stimulants to activity and talent in the church ?
That they are but " lures or loubells, by which the
worldly-minded priest may be tolled, from parish to
parish, all the country over." The Scotch clergy are
but slenderly incomed, and what is the testimony of
their countrymen, the Edinburgh Reviewers, con-
cerning them ? " In Scotland there are 950 parish
clergymen, whose incomes may average 275l. a-year
each ; and the Scottish clergy are not inferior in
point of attainments to any in Europe : no complaints
have ever been made of the manner in which they
perform their duty; but, on the contrary, their ex-
emplary conduct is the theme of well-merited and
constant eulogy." Yet, since the first writing ofthis
work, a wonderful dislike to a state religion has
shewn itself in the country ; a decided and most
general and energetic aversion to forced payments
to its clergy. Even in that moderately endowed
church, the evils of the system of political religion
have made themselves strongly felt. The growing
demand is for the voluntary support of all religious
minieters ; and with the serious, philosophical, and
determined character of the Scotch, this demand will
speedily become irresistible.
Let us now tum again to Sir A. B. Faulkner's
account oftheGerman clergy.-" The Hessean clergy
are exemplary in the discharge of their multifarious
duties. A clergyman, no matter what his grade,
deems it in no respect derogatory from his dignity to
x•
"" ,,Coogle
.PB.IJISTCUFT
prove his faith by his works. The spiritual and
temporal comfort of their flocks, and their nurture
in all sound impressions of religion, is their unceasing
care ; while they hold out, in their own respectable
and uncompromising conduct, both in public and
private, the fairest patterns to enforce the precept
which they teach. However this may appear to our
church of Englanders, it is fact. The average of a
Hessean clergyman's stipend, is about forty dollars
a-year-the dollar three shillings sterling-to which
there is added a house and garden, or little farm."
"The clergy at Marberg,'' he says, "are, in th
strictest sense, a working clergy. They are per-
petually among their flocks, correcting and trainin
and guiding ; and in such unremitting labours o
love, earn a reputation not the less likely to abide b
them for being the capital on which they mu t chiefly
r~ly for most of their comforts and happine . And
it surely is most fitting there should exist this reci-
procity of feeling and good offices between the pastor
and his flock. The protestant and the catholic a
nn the best possible footing with each other ; an
s.hare equally in the offices ofgovernment." Wh eY
he mentions the clergy, it always is in similar t
his only necessary for us always to remember, tb
this is a clergy very moderately paid, and we then
the exact value of the arguments for high salari .
Sorry should I be to see our qoble eccle ia ·
piles deserted and falling to decay, becau e
national funds we.re withdrawn ; but I hould lik t
see them filled with mini&ters of zeal, and overfi ·
congregations. Sorry should I be to ee in my
Sunday r;unbles into the country, the pictu
village chur~ dese~d by it accustomed mini
and occupied~ someignorantand cl mor u ~
but I should r~tjoice when I e.nt red, to find th
o .db Coogle
I!f ALL AGBf, 307
a mere joumeyman hireling, but the worthy pastor,-
not a·man standing like a statue·, and reading in
monotonous tones, a diecoune cold as his own looks ;
but one full of overflowing love, and a lively, though
rational zeal, that made his hearers warm at once to
him, towards each other, and towards God; and when
we went forth I should be glad to see, not what I too
often see, a stately person who smiles sunnily, shakes
hands heartily, talks merrily with the few wealthy of
his fold ; gives to those of a lower grade a frigid nod
of recognition ; to the poor a contemptuous forgetful-
ness· of their presence, and stalks away in sullen
BtMeliliesa to his well-endowed parsonage. Whatever
be chargeable on the catholic priests, it cannot be
denied that they excite a strong and lasting attach-
ment in their followers. They are more affable, more
bumble in manner, kind and condolent in spirit, and
are found diligently at the bedside of the sick, and at
the councils of the poor man beset with difficulties.
But he who enters on his living as his birth-right,
who looks on himself as a gentleman, and his hearers
as clowns, what can arouse his zeal? He who has
no fear of censure, or removal, whence spring his
circumspection and activity? "My father," said the
natural son of a nobleman, " said to me-it is time
you should choose a profession. You must not be a
tradesman, or you cannot sit at my table ; you have
not shrewdness enough for a lawyer ;. you would
forget, -or poison your patients through carelessness
were you a physician ;-1 must make a parson1 or
eome devil of a thing ofyou ;--and he made a parson
ofme ;-and I hate the church and every thing belong-·
ing to it!" From such ministerswhat can be expected?
and such ministers are supplied to the church in
legiont, by this odious system of private·patronage.
The ambition of maintaining the character of geMJe..
x.2
Googk
808 PRJESTC&AFT
men has made clergymen cold, unimpaaaioned, insipid
and useless. It was the same in the latter days of
popery. Chaucer sketches us a priest :
That hie on horae willith to ride
In glitterande golde of ~rete arraie,
Painted and portrid all 1n pride,
No common knight maie go so gaie ;
Chaunge of clothing every daie,
With j!lOidin girdils grete and small,
As bo1strous as is here at baie,
All soche falshede mote nedis f'all.
Now we don't want a set of fine gentlemen; we
want a race of zealous, well-informed, kind aD4l
diligent parish priests. If we must have gentlemen,
let us have them of the school of the carpenter's
son, whom honest Decker, the tragic poet, declares
was
A soft, meek, patient, humble, tran~uil spirit ;
1'he first true gentleman that ever breathed !
After this pattern, we care not how many gentlemeu
we have in the church ;-gentlemen who are not
ashamed, like their master Christ, to- be the friends of
the poor. Who desire to live for them; to li-n
among them ; to learn their wants, to engage tlaeir
affections, to be their counsellors and guides. Men
who can understand and sympathise with the Bt.:l"Dggo
gling children of poverty and toil, in villages and
solitary places, and are therefore understood by them,
and are beloved by them, and will follow them aad
make their precepts the rule of their lives and the
precious hope of their deaths. Oh ! what han not
our clergy to answer for to God and to their country,
that they are not auch men ; what blessings m&J
tll.ey not become by being such ! I know no mea
whoae ~here of influence ia more capacious and more
Coogle
IN ALL AGBI, 809
enviable. It is the easiest thing in the world to
become the very idol of the poor ; there needa but
to shew them that you feel for them, and they are all
ardour and attachment. For the man who will con-
descend to be what Christ was, a lover of the poor,
they will fly at a word over land and water in his
service. He has but to utter a wish, and if it be in
their power, it is accomplished. In the language of
Wordsworth, " it is the gratitude of such men that
oftenest leaves us moumiug." The parish clergyman
has facilities of aiding the poor, that few other men
have. At his slightest recommendation, the medical
~ is ready to afford them his aid ; at his suggestion
the larder and the wardrobe of the hall expand with
alacrity their doors, and the ladies are ready to fly and
become the warmest benefactresses of the afflicted. I
am ready to admit that therearemanysuch men already
in England ; but were it not for the cursed operation
of this private patronage, there would be thousands
more such. Numbers who now have no hope but
of doing the drudgery of a curacy, would then be
tailed by the voice of a free people, to a course of
active usefulness. The land would be filled with
burning and shining lights, that are now hidden
beaeath the bushels of stipendiary slavery, and the
effect on our labouring population would soon be
a,~spicioualy visible.
But what is the actual picture presented to us now
under the operation of this detestable system 1 L~k
where we will, we behold the most grues instance• (){
eimany, pluralities, non-residence, and penurious
remuneration of the working clergy. If every man
were to declare his individual experienee, auch thillga
would make part of his knowledge. In towns,.where
the clergy are more Wlder the influence of public
opinion, we see too many instances of ~ukewarmne...
810 .l'&UISTC&oU'll'
arrogance, and unfitDeft. I have seen gamblers,
jockeys, and cb~terless adventurers put into liviDgt
by tbe vilest iDfluence, to the horror and loathiag f1i
the belplesa congregations-and that in ])Opnlcna
cities ; but in obscure, rural villages, the froitll of tile
system are ten-fold more atrocioualy shameful. Th~
the ignorant, the brutal, the utterly debauched, live
without shame, and tyrannise without mercy o'ftr tbe
poor, uncultivated flocks, whom they render ten times
more stupid and sordid. Within my own knowledge,
I can go over almost innumerable parishes, aud fini
matter of astonishment at the endurance of English-
men. I once was passing along·the street of a county
town in the evening, and my attention waa an"eSted
by the most violent ravings and oaths of a man iB a
abop. I inquired the occasion. " Ob !" said e111e
of the crowd, who atood seeminglyenjoying the spec-
tacle, " Oh I it is only Parson ---; he has gut
drunk and followed a girl into her father's house, who
meeting him at the top of the stairs in pursuit of his
affi:ighted daughter, hurle~ him to the bottom, and
the worthy man of God is now evaporating bia WJath
in vows of vengeance." From these apeetatora I
found it was one of the commoneat lights of the Cllnrll
to see this clergyman thus dnmk, aad thus employei.
But why, said I, do not the parisBionea get m.
dismissed ? A smile of astonishmentat the aimplliity
of my query, 'tn!llt through the crowd. " Get him
dismissed ! Who shall get him dilllliMed l Why, be
is the squire'•• brother; be is, in fact, laom to die
Hving. There is not a man in the parish who ia 118&
a ·tenant or dependent in itome' way on the r-iy;
oonsequeDtly iwt a man who dare OpeD his JDoadl."
They banhim, suclt as Ireie1 and 1INBtmake theirilelt
of him ; and he or hie brother will be au.re to Nil' a
similar.prophet for the Dext generatioa."
IN Al.L AGII, Ul
I entered a, village not fiv-e miles off. This I
fonnd a lovely retired place, with a particularly hand•
some church, a noble panlonage, a neglected scbooll,
and an absent clergyman. The living was 1800l. a
year-the incumbent a desperate gambler. "Why,"
again I said, " don't you get this man dismissed ?"
I saw the 881De smile arise at my simplicity. "La!
Sir, why he is his lordship's cousin I" It wa& a
decisive.answer-to the principle of private patronage
this village also owed the ittemediable curse of a
gambling panlOn,
I went on........Jn a few miles I entered a fine open
parish, where the church shewed afar off over its
nrrounding level meadows of extreme fertllity.
Here the living Wall added to that of the adjoining
pariah, One man held them. Together they brought
S460l. a year. A curate did the duty at two churches
and a chapel of ease, formerly for SOl. a year-now
for 1001. a year. The rector was never seen exce!)t
when be came arul pocketed his 23001. and departed.
This man too was hereditary parson.
But in the pariah which I know perhaps better
than any other, a large and populous pariah in Der-
byshire, no one could recollect having heard of it
possessing a decent clergyman. The last but one
was a vulgar and confirmed 110t. The last came a
respectable youth, well married, but soon fell int:o
dissipated habits, seduced a young woman of fine
person and some property, who, in consequenc!e,
was abandoned by her connexions, married a low
wretch who squandered her money; and finally died
of absolute starvation. The clergyman's wife, here-
More a respectable woman, wounded beyond en-
durance by this circumstance, took to drinking : all
domestic harmony was destroyed ; the vicar began to
drink too. A young family of children grew up
P&lESTCB.AFT
~d all theae evil and unfortunate ipfluenoes : thB
parents finally separated; and as the pastor fell into
years, he fell into deeper vice and degradation. I well
remember him. I remember seeing him upheld, in ll
s~te of utter intoxication over a grave, by two menr
while he vainly strove to repeat the burial service,-
saying, " there is one glory of the sun, and another
glory of the sun"-till they led him away, and closed
tlle grave. I remember well his small, light person,
his thin but ruddy countenance, ud hia singular ap-
pearance, as he used to trot at a quick pace up to the
church, or down the village street back again,-for at
that time he performed duty at three churches, each
of which was three miles distant from the other. On
one occasion, in winter, wishing to make great haste,
he put on his skates, and took the canal in his way•
but it was not well frozen beneath the bridges, and
the ice let him in. He hurried home, and changed
his clothes, but left his sermon in the wet pocket,
&nd arrived only to dismiss his long expecting con.
gregation. The old man, notwithstanding his vices,
had much good-nature and no pride. He accepted
every invitation to dinner at the weddings of hia
hwnblest parishioners, for his own dinners were, like
those of the miser Elwea, generally cold boiled eggs
&Pd pancakes, which he carried in his pockets, and
ate as he went along. His hearers were, many of
them colliers ; and in their cabins he has sometimes
got so drunk that he has fallen asleep, and they have
put him to bed, with a slice of bacon in one hand.
~d one of bread in the other. I remember him
meeting a labourer in the fields one Sunday, aa he
returned from church, and seeing that the man had
been nutting instead of to prayer, he said-" Ah,
William! you should not go a nutting on a Sunday!
-Have you got a few for me, William ?" When
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 313
he administered the sacrament to the sick, he advi!led
them not to take much of the wine, lest it should
increase their fever; but added, charitably, he would
drink it for them, and it would do as well. In short,
he was not without redeeming qualities ; but he is
dead ; or rather, was kicked out of the world by a
horse, when he was in a state of intoxication. An-"
other came in his stead ; and such another ! I see
bnn now in fancy-he is still the incumbent, or
incumbrance of the parish, and may be seen by any
one who lists-a hard-faced, vulgar-looking fellow,
whom, at a glance, you know to have a heart like a
pebble, a head full of stupid mischief, and a gripe
like iron. I think it was Alderman Waithman who
said in parliament, that of all tyrannies, none are !10
odious as the tyranny of a parish priest. And this
fellow is a tyrant in perfection. To the poor he
speedily shewed himself a fierce and arbitrary die·
tator; they must abide his pleasure as to the times
of marrying, burying, and baptism ; and he extorted
from them the uttermost farthing. It is a coal dis-
trict ; and the coal had been got in the surrounding
cou.ntry, but had been left under the houses to pre-
vent injury to them. This he claimed and sold. In
getting the coal, he threw down a part of several
houaes,--eracked and undermined others, and would
probably have thrown down the church-for the work..:
men were actually beginning to undermine it-when
the churchwardens interfered. He bought farms, and
borrowed money to pay for them ; and, when com...
pelled to pay part of the interest, he persuaded the
attorney to give him a memorandum of the receipt
without a stamp, and then laid an information against
him in the Exchequer. He got a commission to prove
wills, and charged the poor ignorant people double,
till some one more experienced informed the bishop;
, . ,,Coogle
311 , PRJI!STC'BAPT
and got his o<icupation taken away. He was to be
found at public-houees, and in ·the lowest oompuy,
till the very family who go.t him the living, abeented
themselves from the church; yet, with a very COJJUDOil
kind of inconsistency, when the people complained,
and asked if he could not be removed, this ve11
family declined acting in it, alleging-it would be •
great scandal for a clergyman to be dismissed tiom
his living!! At length some unwise guanlia.Ds1 wbiJ
had lent him the money of their orphan wards on hia
bare note, and the strength of his clerical chancwr,
have put him in prison ; and the longer he lies; tile
greater the blessing to the people. The following it
part of the report of the Insolvent Debton' Court
when he applied to be disdhatged ;-" The BeY.
gentleman's debts set forth in his schedule amowatei
to 8945l. 8~. 9cl. It appeared that b.e had exercilell
eertain lay vocations ; speculated somewhat in laD~
dabbled a little in twist-lace machinery; worked a
colliery! and now and then enjoyed a bit of hone-
dealing. The insolvent's income was 246l. per au•
num, and his out-goings 500l. a-year."
Such is the ecclesiastical history of this one parialt;
such would be that of thousands were they relatai1
and all this is the natural reault of the abaurd ·and
iniquitous system of state and individual patiOUp.
Till this scandalous mode~tbis mode so inauldng to
the people of a nation like this, of appointing parilla
ministers-be .abandoned, vain is every hope of ia-
ternal strength and life to the church. Let &Yflrf
parish choose its own pastor, and a new course will
commence. The worthy and the .talented will tab
heart,~piety will meet its natural reward, and won
its natural works ; the sot and the hireling incubaa
will disappear ; the vicar will no mare come and
pocket bis yearly 2000l. and leave his curate to do
"" ,,Coogle
I:R ALL .A.GU. lli
his yearly labour for lOOl.; multitudes of needful
refurms will flow into the heart of the church; a
religious regimen and new life will animate its con.,.
stitntion.
The canons of the church must be revised ; its
articles abolished, or reduced to rationality; surplice
fees done away with. It is a crying scandal apd
oppression, that none of the children of Heth are left
who will say "bury thy dead out of thy sight-what
is it between me and thee ?-bury thy dead;" but the
poor man cannot bury his dead except by feeing the
parson to an amouut that will cost him days of hard
labour and months of privation. " To ask a fee of
such," says Milton," is a piece of paltry craft befitting
none butbeggarly artists. Burials and marriages are
110 little a part of the priest's g~~.in, that they who
consider well, may find them to be no part of his
functions. It is a peculiar simony of our English
diTinea only. Their great champion, Sir Henry
Spehnan, in a book written to that purpose, shews
by many cited ·canons, and some of times corruptest
in the church, that -fees extorted or demanded for
sacrameute, marriage•, and especially for burials, are
w.icked, acCursed, simoniacal, at!d abominable.''
But we have only hitherto exhibited an incidental
aud paasing glance at many of tbeee matters ; let us,
befom quitting the subject, take one regular llllcl
eomplete view of the presumption, folly, and injnlw
tiee of a ltate religion; at the oon.Utution and pre~nt
eondition .of the Eragli•h establishment.
P&IBSTCIUFT
CHAPTER XX.
ENGLISH .CHURCH-cONTINUED.
EITOneous constitutions, craftily first creeping in under hypo·
erilicalliea, for advantage. Lord CobfuJm, the Mtmgr.
A glorious church is like a magnificent feast : here is all the
nriety that may be, but every one chooses out a dish or two
that he liket, and lets the rest alone. How glorious soever die
church ·is, every one choose!! out of it his own religion, by
which he governs himself, and lets tte rest alone.
, Selden'• Tahk Talk.
EvERY institution professing itself to be a 1Jtate
establishment of Christianity is a gross insult ad
standing LIBEL upon Christianity ; for it goes upou
this presumption, that it is a religion not capable of
its own inherent power to propagate, nuiintain, aocl
~tuate itself. It is founded upon the avowed
prineipl(l that the Christian religion requires tlut arm
of royalty, the protection of legislative enactmenta,
tb.e ·lltimulus of compulsory provision to proloug U.
existence ; that, unless a government engraft& upoa
a w~ole people the form of this religion, holds in na
plY a host of hireling ministers, and recommends it
b,y the sanction and force of law, it hu not attractiou
1ufficient of its own to draw to it voluntary votari&
Never was this glorious religion more acandalooaly
libelled ; never was the underatandiDg of a whole
n~tiqn ~ore insulted, than by thia inventioD ad
Coogle
IN ALL AGJ:S, 31'1
doctrine ! Yet that such is the real principle of state
religions, their advocates make no secret ofconfessing.
Every day we are told by reverend and pght reverend
polemics and pamphleteers, and by the Tory literary
and newspaper press, that " if we had no established
religion we should soon have no religion at all."
What ! is this said of that religion for which Christ
lived and died ?-that religion, which a prophetic
metaphorofmost singular truth andbeautyrepresented
as "a stone cut out of the mountains without hantls,
which grew and filled the whole earth ?" that religion
of which its Divine founder, so far from commanding
or recommending any national establishment, de·
clared that it was a kingdom not of this world ; of
which be promised tqat " where two or three were
met together in his name, there he would be in the
midst of them?" · Two or three-not whole nations,
whole hierarchies merely, but two or three,-not of
any particular name, description, or peculiarity of
doctrine ; not merely those sanctioned by kings
md priests, by bish9ps or presbyters ; not great
and learned only; but two or three, of any class,
any name, any nation, so that they were but men,
aDd so that they were met together in his name.
Can it be this religion which we are told shall
dwindle and expire except it be chartered and riveted
on a state by its government? This religion, to
whoae first ministers Christ said, " Provide neither
gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses; neither
aerip. for .your journey: neither two coats, neither
shoes, nor yet staves," but added, " Go ye into all
nations, and preach the gospel ;" assuring them that
he would "be with them alway, until the end of
the world?" Can it be of this religion that itll
profeased believers, after eighteen centuries of ita
triumphs, can thus speak ? thus fting back in the
318 P&IBSTCJI.AF'l'
~ee of ~ir Redeemer, in contempt aad "sCorn, hii
own etemal wordJ 1 thus insult ~he reason of his
whole people, in every church and nation, in defiance
of history overflowing with proofs that his gospel is
an immortal .and invincible principle, asking of hu-
man governments none of their purblind enactments,
none of their artificial establishments, but only room
and tfeedom to· spread and bring every spirit beneath
its influence 1
What ia the testimony of all history ? Did this
religion require, or did it enjoyin its infancy the ~
tection of power and the smiles of earthly 'govern·
ments? Every body knows that it arose and grear
in spite of them. It had to contend singly with the
prejudices and old idolatries of the whole world,
The Jews slew its founder-their own brother-aDd
scattered with bitter persecutions his followers : the
Romans, the universal masters of the known flSl'tb,
pursued them with desolating fury, and heaped every
exterminating terror on them ; but.in the very teeth
of all this hatred, they spread and increased till theiR
became the predominant religion, and the Roman
emperor received it as his own. This was the iafancy
of Christianity. Instead of tithes and national
favour, the aliment on which it grew was poverty,
persecution, and slaughter, the hatred and the eD"J
of the wise and strong. This was its infancy ;-bat
perhaps it will be said that it was an infancy uncle
the immediate watch and guardianship of its· di~
founder; under the first out-pourings of his. onmi-
p&tent spirit. What then ? Has this religion gMWB
old 1 Can it become ~pid, wasted, and weary f
Hu that gushing forth of the divi!le spirit eatirely
eeased 1 Has Christ indeed spoken a lie? Haa 1lle
failed to be with his disciples alway, to the eud of
the world ? Has he failed to be in the midat of tile
IN ALL AOKB. 3:19
two Qr three ? Let these events of these latter days
. 1peak for themselves. For a thousand years thia
e~:lelltial firlth suffered eclipse ; for a. thousand yean,
daaped in the iron arms of moRarchy; overwhelmed
ltith delusive flatteries, bound by law.· upon law~ and
ttadi$ion upon tradition, it has been " cribbed,
ca.Qined, and confined." Lies have been propagated iD
Mf~, name ; swarms of vile creatures haye made it an
inexhaustible prey, and have heaped upon its head
!l\lllsea &candaloua and loathsome. It has had to con-
tend with the desolations of barbarism, the · selfish
}lfeten~s of kings and priests, and the stupified
epirits of a trodden populace ; but it has lived through
~. ~t has 11uffered that which would have beea
·ten-fold death to aught less than divine ; and has
even given life and beneficent power to institutions
in themselves deadly. Like the fabled lamp of the
:Q.osici'l,lcians, its light has lain buried in the ruins of
cities and temples, and has flashed through tlie
c:hinks of tombs ; till, in these latter times, it has
hurst on the startled eyes of the explorers into the
W1l8te. places of the earth, with a blaze like that of
the sun•
.It was triumphant in its early career, has it been
Jeaa 1,10 in its latest? Let the champions of the Re-
formation ; let America ; let our missionary societies ;
}Qt the dis$enters in general, and the Methodists in
particular, reply. Was it by the aid of statee that
the 4<>ctrines of the reformers spread? Let Huaa
au~ Jerome of Prague, let Oldcastle, let Cranmer;
Lati.m!lr, and a thousand other martyrs speak to thia.
·:B.ut. wh~t est~~.l>l.i8hment has given Cluistianity such
aplt111clid }>l:eval~ce .in America ? Has this been the
-~~t of mitres and lawn-sleeves, of wealthy lord.
~- and fat li:v.iaga presented by government or
:priyaf.Q patJoJll,in scorn of the poplllar choil:e? No4
Coogle
320 PRIESTCRAFT
religion has in the United States all that true Chris-
tianity asks,-freedom to operate, and human hearts
to operate upon. This is a great experiment on the
intrinsic and unabated vitality of this blessed faith,
which is worth a world ofarguments,-which includes
all arguments within itself; an experiment which
will put to silence every cavilling of the interested,-
for it has succeeded even to the amplitude of the
apostolic age. Fain would the spiritual despots
escape from the inevitable conclusions to be drawn
from this great example,-but they cannot do it.
They tell us that British America is yet in its infancy;
and they add, in the bitterness of an unhallowed
hope, it may yet stumble in its career. What then?
Let America fall from its high estate to-morrow ; let
it grow drunk with prosperity, &nd rend itself to
pieces in the frenzy of ambitious discord ; let Chris-
tianity be fettered to the car of state, as in Europe:
I say-what then ? The great trial is made and de-
cided ! Christianity has been cast upon the bosom of
a multitudinous people,-a people compounded of
many a mingled origin ; daily contaminated by
swarming arrivals of the most debased outpourings
of European population, and, even in such a soil, it
has proved that so long as a legislature refrains
totally from interference with it, it will flourish with
all the energy of its youth. " Look," says an
American writer quoted by Mr. Marshall in his work
on Establishments, " at the ten thousand clergymen,
the free choice of the people, living in the hearts, and
supported by the free-will offerings oftheir respective
flocks, and exerting a moral influence, and imparting
a moral benefit far more extensive and lasting than
the English priesthood, with all its secular power,
and patronage, and wealth." But it is not merely to
the settled population of the United States thal
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 321
Christianity thus shews itself in its native strength ;
it can afford.to go forth, by ita domestic missions, to
every obscure haunt of the back-woodsmen; nay, it
can afford, in the power of voluntary contribution, to
have ita foreign missions. The" Chrjstian Advocate,''
for Nov. 1830, published at Plilladelphia, says,
" There are forty-seven missionary stations under
the direction of the Board. One ill at Bombay, five
in Ceylon, one at Malta, .one at Bayroot, six at the
Sandwich Islands, and thirty-three among the North
American Indians. About 11,000 convertedheathens
have been received into the mission chttrches ; a
large portion of them within the last year, and great
numbers are brought under religious restraint, giving
more or less an evidence of piety. At least 50,000
learners are enrolled in the mission schools; and
about 600 teachers, most of them natives, who have
themselves been taught by missionary influence, are
emp1oyed in them. The missionaries and the Board
have made use of the press for the dissemination of
knowledge in eleven languages,-namely, Mahratta,
Tamul, Armeno-Turkillh, Arabic, Greek, Italian,
Cherokee, Choctaw, Seneka, Abemakee, and Ha-
waiian.'
And all this ill done by a nation in that stage of
its career in which all other people have been cruel
barbarians ; a nation that takes not a penny from
the state to maintain ita preachers ; a nation that our
state-fed priests have dared to brand as irreligious
and even atheistical, while they have themselves been
rioting in idlenes~ on those prodigious funds sacrificed
by England to a state creed.
But wherever we turn we find that it is the prin-
ciple of voluntary contribution that is Christianizing
the world. It is by the missionary societies that the
Indies, East and West, have received the gospel ;
y•
P.lUBSTCBAP'r
th4t such wonderful·effects have been produced in
the South Sea islands ; that the frightful wastea of
Labrador and Greenland have been visited with its
happy sound. What have our establishments to
offer in comparison with these facts ? Yet their
advocates, with a blindness or an audacity equally
amazing, .persist in declaring that without these en-
gines religion Ca.nnot be either maintained at home
or propagated abroad ; and this, too, while they are
absolutely doing nothing, e~n at their own doors;-
while, as is shewn by the parliamentaryreturns ofnon-
residence for 1831, out of 10,560 incumbents, only
4649 are doing duty, and therefore nearly 6000 are
living in the mire ofutter sloth, with the awful respon-
sibility of millions ol' souls upon their beads ! The
Moravian Brethren have done more for the extension
of Christianity, small a body and poor a body as
they are, than all the establishments that ever existed.
Whoever doubts this, let him turn to the history of
'their wonderful missions in all quarters of the world.
But beyond all this mass of startling facts, on the
llery domestic soil which our establishments are char-
tered and fed to cultivate, it is the principle of
voluntary Chrstianity that is doing the work. The ·
'clergy are enjoying their livings, for the most part,
in careless ·ease, but their people are daily falling
away to the dissenters for spiritual instruction,• and
above all is this principle most marvellously demon-
strated by the Methodists. ·These people, whoee
• At the moment I write this (Dec. 14), an examdle iJ
afforded of the relative proportions of church people an dis-
sentera in this town, in a paper read before the Nottiagbua
Literary Society, by R. lfopper, Esq., foUIIded oa cuefal
inquiry :-attenders of chapef, 12,000; of church, 5800. Ia
many manufacturini districts, the balance in favour of clisseut
would be far greater. In the Stallbrdahire Potteries uad tbe
popul8UI Laocuhire toWS~~, u eight to one.
Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 323
founders were expelled the state university for their
pious aeal, in about ninety-five years have grown to
upwards of a million; nay, in the course of the past
year, one class of them alone has added ninety thou-
sands to its body,--a number greater, it may be well
believed, than the priests of the establishment have
actually proselyted since this church sprung from
the great harlot and mother of enchantments.
Thus, whether we look to the past or the present,
whether at home or abroad, we behold Christianity
vindicated by its own victorious strength, from the
base libel of the necessity of state establishments.
All history is eloquent in the assertion of its freedom.
Beautiful and prosperous wherever it is left to its
own energies, and the natural love of men; languish-
ing and disgraced by all monstrous abuses, wherever
it is allied to the state; it becomes the sacred duty of
each lover of his God and his fellow men, to stand
boldly forward, and demand, that in a great and wise
nation like this, such violence shall no longer be
done to the most precious of God's gifts-the ever-
lasting gospel. If we needed any demonstration of
the anti-christianity of an establishment, beyond the
evils and scandals it has generated, we need only
bear in mind Christ's command to his ministers-
" Freely ye have received, freely give ;" but the
command of an establishment, is-"By force ye
have received, and by force ye shall give." The
essence of Christianity is freedom-that of an esta~
blishment is compulsion; the distinction i~ eternal
and convincing.
But, in order to judge more correctly of the real
nature and condition of the English Church, let us
take a cursory view of its constitution and present
state, as represented by its friends, preceded by an
outline of what it was in our fathen' ~ys. In a rare
•y 2
324 PJI.IESTCBAFT
tract, entitled, " Omnia Comesta a Bello," printed in
~667, is given the follolring sketch.
"THE CONSTITUTION OF THE CHURCH.
"First. THE REVENUE, PoxP,·· AND SrATE or
THE PBELATES.
"There are two provincial Archbishops, Canter-
bury and York, with their princely retinue, domestic
chaplains, officers for temporalities, their spiritual
officers, Vicar-General, Guardian of the Spiritualities,
Dean of the Arches, with all their under officers and
.attendants.
" Secondly. THEIR CouaTS.
Court of Faculties. Prerogative Court.
Court of Audience. Delegates.
" There are four-and-twenty Bishops Diocesan.
with their Trains, Domestic Chaplains, Officers, and
Courts. To these belong-
26 Chancellors, and their Attendants.
24 Registrars, with their Clerks.
24 Gentlemen Apparitors.
120 Inferior Apparitors.
48 Proctors.
" There are, under these Bishops-
" 60 Archdeacons ; and these have 60 Courts, to
which belong-
Commissaries. 60 Registrars.
Officials. 120 Proctors.
Surrogates. 200 Apparitors.
" So that the number belonging to Archbishops.
Bishops, Archdeacons, and their trade, are judged to
be no less than ten thousand per1001; which will
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 32.':i
·require for their maintenance, two hundred thousand
pounds per annum, reckoning them at twenty pountll
a man ; whereas some of them have one hundred
pounds, some four hundred pounds, squeezed out of
the poor people. As for their standing rents, they
are well known. Their lordly palaces, sumptuous
houses, ecclesia.stical dignities, etc. f7ij. s. et modil,
such is their income, that it amounts, at leaat, to four
hundr_ed andfifty thouland pounds a year.
"THEY HAVE MANY OTHER WAYS TO ENRICH
THEMSELVES, AND IMPOVERISH THE NATION: as,
" First; By ordaining Deacons and Ministers four
times a year for money; by which they put up
yearly, hundreds of pounds.
" Secondly; By instituting and inducting Parsons
arid Vicars to benefices when they fall. For every
such i.pduction, they have three pounds at the leaat.
And in England there are 9285 parishes; so that,
at the rate of one in a parish, it amounts to twenty-
sef7en thousand eight hundred and fifty fit7e pounds.
" Thirdly; By making Rural Deans yearly; and
for the oath-taking they pay eight shillings mad ft:A:-
pence.
" Fourthly; By granting licenses to beneficed mi-
nisters to preach in their own cures. Though they
be ordained before, and strictly commanded to preach,
yet they must not do it without a license; and this
license costs them ten shillings; so that in 9285
parishes, this comes to four thousand ~ hundred and
fifty-two pounds, ten shillings.
" Fifthly; By granting-
1. Licenses to curates to preach.
2. , for schoolmasters to teach school.
3. , for parish clerks.
4. , to midwives, to do their office.
326 PIUESTCRAFT
5. Licenses to marry-whleh thing of ·itself'
arises to a vast sum.
6. For absolving excommunicated persons.
7. For putting men to clear themselves by oath
with their compurgators.
8. For commutation of penance; for so the rich
come off with a round sum of money, but the poor
doing their penance in kind, must stand excommuni-
cated till they have paid their fees. ·
" Sixthly; By Probates of Wills, and granting
Letters of Administration; which brings in constantly
great sums of money.
" Seventhly; By framing new Articles, and forcing
Churchwardens to present upon oath, whereby many
innocent persons are brought into their courts, and
squeezed, both in conscience and purse (the penalty
for non-attendance of church being twenty pounds a
month); and the churchwarden is squeezed also, if
he do not take the oath prepared for him.
"BY THEIR VISITATIONS FOR MoNEY.
"First; Churchwardens of eYery parish in Eng-
land, and chapel, are called; who receive a Book of
Articles to present by; and if any are wanting, they
are warned to appear at their courts, with costs.
These churchwardens pay for their Book of Articles
every year (though the· very same); aa also for
writing their presentments by a clerk (which they
themselves could do, but are not permitted), IIIII&
~iUings and four peflce; which in 9285 parishes,
cometh to one thousand und flfty·eiglft powntll, odd
money, yearly.
"Secondly; Ministers that are licensed, pay 011e
1hilling and eight pence, or thereabouts, for shewing
their license to preach, to the Registrar, at every
Bishop's visitation, though aeen and allowed before:
Coogle
32l
after that, four 1hilling1 for procuration to the,Bishop;
and to the Gentleman Apparitor, eight pence; mo~t
pay tweltie pence.
" I shall omit the poor curates' suit and service at
this court; only let you know, that when an Arch-
bishop comes newly to York, all the Parsons and
Vicars in his jurisdiction, .though never so poor, and
their charge never so great, give him a tenth of their
livings for a Benevolence, to help the poor Bishop to
settle himself in jitJe or si:£ thousands a gear; and if
any, yea the meanest Vicar, whose poor children
want bread, do through poverty omit the payment,
this Reverend Father doth pitifully whip him to the
very bones in his merciless Spiritual Court.
"BY ARCHDEACONS' VISITATIONS.
" These are twice a year. At Easter Visitation
they pay their Paschal Rents, or Synodals, which it
seems are not alike to all ; some pay 56, some less.
At Michaelmas they pay Procurations ; some 1e11en
shillings, some ten shiUing1, .some less ; but it is
judged that miniaters pay yearly at Visitations ji11e
tlww~rul pourul& and upwards.
"BY THE VAST CHARGES IN CoLLEGIATE CHURCHES.
" There are twenty,.six great Deans with their
attendants and servants.
" 544 Canons, Residents, and Prebendaries, with
a numerous train of-
Vicars,
Peti-canons,
Singing men and boys, Choristers,
Organists,
Gospellers,
Epistelers,
Vergers.
Coogle
l'm:&ITCILAl!'"r .
-" .Now this jovial crew h&Te belODgiug 1D:tJ.m
about fotW hu~ttlretl thotllafttlpotlflda ~l!.rly in 1and8,
rents, leasea, and other revenues aDd profits them-
unto 'belonging.'' ·
This is a curious picture enough of a Ruo&JUD
CHURCH in 1667 ; but seven years after the resto-
ration of Charles II., by which it regained its ~wer.
Wise and good men would have been taught by .the
adversities and humiliations of the Commonwealth,
temperance and forbearance ; but the digDitariea.of
the church rushed again to the seats from which. tbq
had been driven by the people, like so many huugry
wolves rendered mad by their temporary abstinence,
and ready to prey on all that came into their power,
even upon their own order, " whipping the poorest
Vicars to the very bones if they failed ~f their
payments.'' The whole of the cathedral property
had 'been sold by the state during the Commonwealth
to private individuals ; all this was reclaimed in the
most ·summary manner, and not a penny of com-
pensation paid. "And what," this writer goea on
to ask, " did the nation get by the restoration Of tlDa
hierarchy 1 In all other trades men have something
for their money. The farmer hath good Ianda &om
the gentleman for his money ; the clothier hath good
wool from the farmer for his money ; the men:haa&
hath good cloth from the clothier for his money ; ud
thus it goes round to every one's.benefit. But pray.
what have we got from the bishops for·our money!
"We have all our able, godly, orthodox mininen
ruined and beggared, and no uwmer· of supply
provided for the maintenance of··them and their
families ; and in their rooms; in many p~ •
eompany of debauched, .illiterate, supentitioua, po-
Ill' .ALL· AUI.
fiDe prieata, which, .blind·.guidu, must ·Jleeda lead
them that .follow them to hell•
. "We have gotten molt of .our churehwardene
perjured, that do swear to present accordiDg to their
Visitation Articles, and most of them undone that do
not swear ; although the imposing of such an oath is
a breach of the fundamental law of the land. If a
minister, never so godly, preach in a cloak, and not
in a garment canonical, he is bound to present him.
If any person go to hear a aermon from his own
parish church, though there be no preaching there,
and though he is bound by his baptismal vow to hear
preaching, this man is to be presented. If a poor
man hath not bread for his family, but .what he
eamcth by his daily labour, and he work on a holy-
day, appointed by Romish institution, he is to be
presented. If any person coming to church, do not
stand up at the Creed, do not bow at the name of
Jeaua, do not keep his hat off all the while, he must
be presented. Now there are in all, three sewe Gild
fawteen l~a ch.-rchwartlem atul ride1-men in
England e11ery year ; and what a dreadful thing is it,
to have all these yearly, either perjured persecvtor•,
or persecvtea !
"We have gotten moat of the sober, trading part
of the nation discouraged by citations, excommunica•
tiona, writs to take them excommunicated, imprison•
:awnts u.pon ecclesiastical accounts. By this means,
thousands of, families are :already ruined, and many
hpndredl.are ready to leave the land, and seek some
other. oountry where they may have liberty of con-
llaieuce,·and freedom from these devouring harpieS'.
. "We have got, instead of the gospel in the power
aud purity of it; a service collected out ofthe Romit\
boob, the Mass, Breviary, etc. : which serviee· of
Olu~ IGng.Ja:mea called an iU.nmg miw. . We<dzave
330 Plli.ESTCB.AFT
got surplices, copes, tippets, chringings, etc., out of
the Romish rituals, so that the papists themselves
call it an apish imitation of the mass. We have
gotten a swarm of ecclesiastical officers which the
Scriptures never knew, nor reformed churches never
owned. We have got a sort of proud prelates, of
mean extract, not of the highest rank for godliness,
learning, and labour in the world, nor the greatest
champions for the reformed religion : yet very elate
they are, affronting our nobility, trampling upon our
gentry, grinding to powder all that put not into their
mouths, or offer not at their shrine ; insomuch that
a gentleman of quality, of 3000l. per annum, speak-
ing to one of the said prelates boldly, but with due
respect, l:he prelate, in a fume, answered-" WhiJt
sir, do gou think that it is.fitfor every Jack g~
to speak thus to a bishop ?"-deriding the gentry of
our land as not worthy to speak to a peevish prelate.
Surely a gentleman of 500l. per annum would not
be allowed to speak to his postilion !
"We have gotten all manner ofmisery to soul md
body,-plague, fire, sword, universal beggary, and
without seasonable mercy, the total ruin of the whole
kingdom." ·
Such is the lamentable testimony of one of that
time to the fruits of restoring, in the rear ofmonarchy,
that evil spirit-the Legion of Prelacy, which had
been so well cast out. Let the reader bear in mind,
that the sums of money here mentionedare but about
the fourth part ofwhat the same property would now
produce, and it will give some curious results. In
particular, the Dean and Chapter property still con-
tinues to be valued by the clergy at about 290,000L
per annum ; whereas at that time it was estimated '
at 400,000l. a-year.
Another curious fact presented is, that IDilll¥ of
IN . ALL AGES. 331
the assumed prerogatives of the church, the growing
information of the people has wrested from it. Phy-
sicians, schoolmasters, and midwives, have rescued
themselves from the talons ofthe ecclesiastical harpies,
and set a good example to the country at large ; and
shall not the now mighty body of dissenters be able
to do for themselves what the schoolmasters and mid-
wives have done 1
We will now take a survey of the church as it
appears at present: by which we shall, I trust, arrive
at some useful ideas.
382
CHAPTER XXI.
ENGLISH CHUBCB-cONTlN\J.ED.
THE CHURCH, AS DESCRIBED BY ITS FRIENDS.
WH1' do the Apostolical writings say-" honour the kiag, aDd
he aubjeet to principalities" 10 often, but Aonou.r the ~­
prince, or 6enate doth never occur1••••••Of thete things in the
Apostolical writings. or in any near tho~~e times, there doth not
appear any footstep or pregnant intimation. But supposinJ the
church was designed to be one in this manner of political
regiment, it must be quite another thing, nearly resembling a
worldly state, yea in effect, soon resolving itself into one ; su~
posing, as is now pretended, that its management is now
committed to an ecclesiastical monarch, it must .OOn become a
worldly kingdom ; for such a polity could not be upheld without
applying the same means aud engiues, without practiaing the
same methods and arts, whereby secalar governments are main-
tained. Its majesty must be maintained by conspicuous pomp
and phantasy : its dignity and power must be supported by
wealth which it must corrade and ~U:CUmulate by large in~
by exaction of tributes and taxes. It muat exert authority ia
enacting lawa for keeping its state in order and securiag its
interests, backed with rewards and pains ; eepecially 11, eoa-
aidering its title being 10 dark, and grounded on no clear WVftllt.
many always will conteet it. It muat apply conatraiat aad ba:
,for procuring obedience, and correcting tranagreuiona. It mast
have guards to presene its safety and authority. It mast be
engaged in wars to defend itself, and make gOod its iateresta.
It must ue aubtlety t.nd llltifice for promoting its intensaa. ad
Coogle
333
CO\!Dtennining the policy of its adversaries. It must erect
judicatories, and decide causes with the formalit,Y of legal
process; whence tedious suits, crafty pleadings, quults of law
and petti-foggeries, fees and charges, e1tortion and barratry, etc.
will necessarily creep in. All which things do much disagyee
from the original constitution and designs of the christian church,
which is averse from pomp, doth reject domination, doth not
require craft, wealth, or force to maintain it; but did at first, and
may subsist without any such means.- Dr. ' BaN"OW, Yice-
CJumcellor oJ CamlwiJge in Clu!.rla II.'• reign, and one ofthe
brighte# ornament~ oftll4 Church ofEnglam(.
ON a first glance of the outline of the church given
in the last Chapter, one would be ready to exclaim,
here is a constitution carefully marked out, and filled
U}l with abundant officers ; but when we come to
examine it, we find it a constitution merely for
collecting money, and not at all for moral discipline;
as I shall presently shew it continues to this day.
We will, therefore, forthwith contemplate it as it
now exists, and shall, I doubt not, arrive at some
useful notions. First and foremost we have
THE KING, HEAD OF THE CHURCH, AND DEFENDER OF
THE FAITH.
Of what use it is that the king should occupy this
singular station it is difficult to see, except that it
enables him to appoint all bishops, and keep them
subservient to his secular power.
This was the object of Henry VIII., of Eli-
.zabeth, and the Stuarts, and this influence has
been exercised with the most fatal results to the
character of the hierarchy and to religion ; but as
• D obyGoogle
334 PB.liSTCB.APt'
to any active exertion of it for the good of the
church, we may look for it in vain. No reform can
take plaee in the doctrines of the church except at a
Convocation, and this cannot be summoned except
by the king, in conjunction with the archbishops.
Thus, notwithstanding the desires of a few good
men, occasionally appearing amongst the prelates or
general clergy, the church has stood an object of
wonder for its strange doctrines and want of moral
discipline, amid the growth of the public mind, while
the scandalous lives of many of the kings, its legal
heads, have heaped upon it unavoidable disgrace.
One thing, however, has been made apparent by the
close alliance of king and church in this nation-the
monarchs have always looked upon the church as a
public sponge through which they could suck up and
squeeze out again at their pleasure, the wealth of the
people. The clergy have gathered up the fees, and
tithes, and donations given under many a pions
delusion, and the kings have put their hands into
the church-box and helped themselves with great
delight. William the Conqueror, says Matthew of
Paris, and other chroniclers of those times, te furnish
his wars in the fourth year of his reign, took all the
money, jewels, and plate out of the religious houses,
making a rigorous search, and sparing not even the
chalices and shrines. He reduced the lands of the
church into knights' fees, making the bishops do
military service for their baronies, and expelled such
as opposed the measure. His son Rufus trod
diligently, in his steps. Leland, Matthew of West·
minster, and Matthew of Paris, all declare that be
spared no manner of rapine or simony. Aa soon 11
bishoprics and abbeys became vacant, he ·seized
upon all their temporalities, farmed them out to his
favourites, or to such as giving most for them, did
Coogle
IN ALL AGEl. 335
not spare to rack the tenants to the utmost ; the
offices themselves he conferred, not on persons of
merit, but sold them to the highest bidder, and thus
raised great sums out of the church. At the time of
hls death he held in his own hands the archbishopric
of Canterbury, the bishoprics of Winchester and
Salisbury, and twelve abbeys. Henry I. continued
t~e same custom, holding the primacy in his hands
five years, and regularly selling bishoprics, parti-
cularly that of Durham, for 1000l., an enormous snm
in that day. Stephen through his troublesome reign,
during which the whole country was pillaged by
armies, and reduced to famine, kept church. lands, and
seized on church money wherever he could find it.
Florence of Worcester says, that the bishop of
Salisbury, dying, it is supposed, with not less than
forty thousand marks in silver, besides gold, and a
variety of rich ornaments in his castles, Stephen
helped himself to it all. Henry II. reacted the same
thing on the death of the Archbishop of York in his
reign ; and in 1173, say Ralph Cogshall and Walter
of Gisbom, there were no less than seven bishoprics
vacant, being held in his own hands-namely, Can-
terbury, Winchester, Ely, Lincoln, Bath, Hereford
and Chichester; and, in 1175, twelve abbeys were
vacant from the same cause. Richard I. to enable
him to go to the Crusades, exacted immense sums
of money from both laity and clergy ; and like-
wise, on his return, to pay the ransom of his
captivity in Germany, even seizing all the wool of
the Cistercian monks, who had never before paid
any thing, and compelling them to redeem it. He
found,- also, in Hugh Pudsey, bishop of Durham,
a very gainful subject. This man, a true church-
man, being wealthy, and seeing the king's necessities,
bought of him the whole county of Durham for an
immense sum, being made earl·aa well as bumop of
Durham. We find the same man still holding on Jlis
way to rank and power by his money. He purcllased
the Lo,rd Chief Justiceship of the king, not eontent
with being both earl and bishop ; and afterwards the
primacy. At length, glutted with spoil and honour,
he prayed to be allowed to retire from the govem-
ment of the kingdom ; and the king, inspecting the
records, found that this good and faithful servant had
exacted for him, within the two last years, from the
people 1,100,000 marks. It waa this miscreant that
enabled John to seize upon the throne and destroy
his nephew Arthur ; and John repeated all the
exactions and simony on the church practised by his
ancestors. To give the history, of the free-handed
plunder of the church by king after king, would be
to write a volume; it is enough to say, that it was
continued through every reign. The Henries and
the Edwards, in their continual wars, had great occa-
sion for money, and they did not fail to levy freely
on the clergy, to the amount frequently of fifty or
one hundred thousand pounds at a time,-monatroua
sums for those days, but indicating that the chun:h
waa a mine of wealth. At length Henry VIII. laid
his bold hand on the whole booty, and swept it
all into his capacious crypt, to the amount of
3.0,503,4001.; the gold and jewellery he estimated
at one million alone ; giving back just what he
pleased, and making even that still subject to the
payment of his first-fruits and tenths. All whieJa
may be seen at large in the Cotton MSS. ; Strype'a
Ecclesiastical Memorials; Spelman's History of S..
crilege ; Speed, Stowe, and Camden. Queen.. .Atmi!
finally took compassion on the poor clnyy, and wu,
as already shewn, cheated by the rich out or their
first-fruits and tenths. All this loving int.erooanf
Coogle
1li ALL AGES• U7
.r king and church, in every period of our hiatory,
demonstrates that church property has always bee
teemed state property. The king, being head of the
church, did what he thought proper with the cash he
found in the pockets of his lower members : a fact
which the clergy are now anxious to get rid of,
raising the outcry of vested ri[]hts, that cant-word of
all corruptionist& when government would recall what
it once lent for political purposes.
NEXT WE HAVE TWO ARCHBISHOPS,
For the existence of these men in a reformed
church, the advocates of the system have been sorely
puzzled for a plea. For the bishops, they could find
a name in the New Testament, the book by which all
churches should be fashioned, although the name
agrees but little with the present office ; but for
these men there does not exist in the Scriptures even
a name. They are notoriously and integrally popish.
They are standing monuments of the wretched patch-
work which was made by our kings, and called a
reformation. They have no duties distinct from the
bishops, nor does it appear that they have any juris-
diction over them. They do not appoint them-the
king does, and they cannot remove them ; they
cannot, without the king's concurrence, call them
together in convocation. Their sole use, therefore,
seems to be "to rear their mitred fronts in courts
and parliaments;" to vote in the train of ministers;
to rule their wide and opulent domains ; count their
enormous revenues, and dispose of good livings to
sons, brothers, nephews, cousins, and relations and
dependents without end, as their own interest, or the
interest of ministeni, reserved by special agreement,
may dictate. The system of nepotism was never
carried to a more scandalous extent in the court of
.Rome. •z -
"'Coogle
338 PI!.IEBTCllAJ'T
Two reasons, indeed, and two only, have beeu
advanced for these offices in a protestant church,-to
add spleAClottrto it, and to form grand prize1, by which
learning and talent may be stimulated to exert them-
selves in the church. Most marvellous reasons they
are ! What is the splendour which should adom
the church of Christ1 The splendour of princely
revenues P--of secular pomp and power? Why,
then, did not Christ give such to his apostles? Why
not invest his infant church with this splendour,
which might have charmed monarchs, attracted the
nobles, and dazzled the common people 1 Why sent
he them out to toil and poverty with empty purses ;
without a scrip, or a change of raiment 1 Again, I
say, this is a most gross libel on Christ and his
ordinances.
But this reformed church would have prizes held
out to learning and talent. Then let it give
them to secular objects. Let learning and talent
be rewarded as th.ey ought,-roads enow are open to
them. The army and navy may furnish grand prizes
to talent;-law is a famou~ path for talent and learn-
ing to wealth and title, as every day shel\·s ; but if
you will offer prizes in a Christian church, in the
name of God, let them be @Uch as become it. You
will not have us to believe that talent and learning
are always to be found distinct from piety,-that
piety cannot necessarily exist in the same breast with
them ? If so, let us have piety alone, for so Christ
and his church would demand. But if it be not so,
let your offers be such as piety will seek, and talent
and learning will come along with it. The demand
in this case, as in all others, w!ll insure a supply.
In all great emergencies, men of the necessary cha-
racter spring from obscurity as by miracle. The
immense mass of t.alent, energy, learning, wit, genius
Coogle
Ui ALL AGES. 319
which slumbers in the great chaos of human soeiety,
quickened by the breath of high occasion, starts up,
and is ready to carry to its accomplishment every
mortal enterprise. This has been found marvellously
the case in all revolutions of state, of mind, or morals.
The French revolution is an instance at hand, and
familiar to every one. What wit, what genius, what
statesmen and senators, what mighty generals, what
an awful conqueror sprung from the body of the
people to the amazement of the world, who would
otherwise have gone forward on '' the noiseless tenor
of their way" unheard of. But the momentous crisis
called them into activity; and had that crisis been of
an aspect as religious and beneficent as it was other-
wise, actors as religious and beneficent in theirs would
have come forth as abundantly. Let, then, your
prizes be adapted to the object you desire. You will
not be more foolish than the angler or the fowler?
They offer baits suited to the prey they would take.
They do not offer grain to eagles, and live lambs
to doves or fishes. You want active piety, and you
offer temptations to worldly-mindedness, to unprin-
cipled ambition, to the base, the time-serving, and
the rapacious ! At the sight of your prizes of enor-
mous wealth and political distinction, so absurdly
held aloft,-" the very prizes," says a noble old writet,
" which the devil offered to our Saviour,"-the worst
of our species,-the greedy of gold; the panters after
pleasure and dissipation; the hard, the grasping, the
shameless, rush in crowds to the temple doors, and
shoulder away those who fain would enter and do the
work of Christ for the work's sake. But where are
your prizes for piety ?-ay, where are they? These
are what are wanted in a Christian church, and these
are not palaces and parks, wide lands, a hundred
thousand a year, or access to the circles of fashion
z2
Google
340 PRIESTCRAFT
and heartless splendour,-they are a fair field for the
exercise of a Christian pastor's love and zeal, a dwell-
ing amongst men with whom they can sympathise,
and to whom they can communicate that spirit of life
which animates them,-their knowledge, and their
refined affections. To possess these men, the church
must offer what their nature seeks, and which will
preserve them pure; but I must presently shew,
that not only is nothing of this kind offered, but that
the door is carefully closed against men of this clasa
by the deadly system of patronage.
WE HAVE THEN TWENTY-FOUR BISHOPS.
Here we have the appearance of coming upon
scriptural ground; but when we examine into facts,
we find we are as far off as ever. This reformed
church would have us to believe that it is founded
on the rock of ages, and organized in the strict prin-
ciples of the New Testament; yet in almost the only
instance in which it has retained the scriptural name,
it has taken care to separate it from the scriptmal
office. So far from having any connexion, even
nominally, with the gospel, in its archbishops, arch-
deacons, deans, chapters, and long train of officers of
its spiritual courts, chancellors, commissaries, surro-
gates, registrars, etc., etc. ; it has not even permitted
its bishops to be the bishops of the Christian choreh
in its original purity. What sort of a reformation
must that have been, which went not to the original
model, but to that sink of all corruptions from which
it professed to free and purify Christianity? St.
Paul tells us that a bishop "must not be given to
filthy lucre; but a lover of hospitality, a lover of
good men, sober, just, holy, temperate." But the
bishop of the apostolic churches was synonymous with
the elder and presbyter-was, in fact, the pastor o( a
Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 341
fioek. This is admitted by all the most celebrated
commentators-and Mr. Scott, the esteemed com-
mentator of the English church, among them. On
chap. xx. of Acts, he says, that " the same persons
are in this chapter called elders or presbyters, and
overseers or bishops; it must, therefore, be allowed,
that these were not distinct orders of ministers at
that time." St. Jerome, in the fourth century, ex-
pressly states how this original order of things was
changed. "By the ordinances of Christ, priests and
bishops were all one; but afterwards the emperor
divided them, and made bishops lords, and priests
servants; and this was the cause of envy, and
quenched much charity; for the ordinances of Christ
are framed in meekness, in unity, and charity, and
in contempt of riches and high estate." Johannes
Parisiensis says, that when Constantine gave tempo-
ralities to the bishops, a voice was heard from heaven,
crying, "This day is poison poured into the church!"
Yet the English church, which affects to be so truly
apostolical, has abandoned the scriptural bishops,
and taken those which popery borrowed of Constan-
tine. The English bishop has not an attribute in
common with the apostolical. He is not the pastor
of one flock, diligent in preaching, and caring for the
comfort and salvation of his charge; all this is
devolved·on the common clergy-and well would it
be, if even they fulfilled it: but for the bishop, he
has no flock at all; preaching does not make part of
his vocation; he does not even come in contact with
the clergy over whom he is nominally set, except
once in three years, when he makes his hurried visit-
ation to one or two of the chief towns of his diocese.
His duties are of a widely different nature. To sit
311 a judge and law-maker in parliament; to super-
intend his great estates, and revenues of 70,000l. a
342 .PIU.ESTC1AFT
year, as in London, or 30,000l., as Durham; to
preside in his court over a variety of secular matten.
Yet would the members of the establishment per-
suade us that these men are the legitimate successors
and representatives of the martyrs and first reformers
of the Anglican church. They are not members
even of the same church. The present church is
the church of Elizabeth-who, I have already shewn,
was in heart a papist; and in spite of her best-in-
formed and best-intentioned clergy, left as little
difference between it and popery as possible; and
would, with her good will, have left none. Wycliffe,
Tyndal, Lambert, Cranmer, Latimer, Ridley, etc.,
held, as may be seen in their writings, or their oral
testimonies on their trials, widely different doctrines;
and in particular this, that the bishop and priest are
scripturally one. Henry VIII. issued in 1537, a
Declaration, signed by Cromwell, his secretary, by
the two archbishops, eleven bishops, and varioliS
other learned persons, "that the New Testament
sanctions no degrees or distinctions in :religious
orders, but those of deacons or ministers, priests or
bishops." Nor is this all. Mr. Conder, in his able
work on Nonconformity, has shewn that the very
same opinions have been avowed by many of the
dignitaries and learned members of the present esta-
blishment-Bishops Alley, Pilkington, Jewel, and
Morton; and by Doctors Willet, Whitaker, Hum-
phrey, and Holland. The sentiment& of good old
Hugh Latimer have often been quoted, respeotiDg
Lord Bishops:-" This much I da:re aay, that siBee
lording and loitering hath come up, preaching hath
oome down, contrary to the apostles' times; for they
preached, and lorded not-and now they lord, and
preach not. For they that be lords will ill go to tltt
plough; it is no meet office for them ~ it is not sea~-
, . ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 343
ing for their estate. Thus came up lording loiterers;
thus creeped in unpreachlng prelate!; and so they
have long continued. For how many unlearned
prelates have we at this day: and no marvel; for if
the ploughmen that now be were made lords, they
would clean give over ploughing; they would leave
off their labour, and fall to lording outright, and let
the plough stand: and then both ploughs not walk-
ing, nothing could be in the commonwealth but
hnriger. For ever since the prelates were made lords
and nobles, the plough standeth; there is no work;
the people starve. They hawk, they hunt, they card,
they dice, they pastime in their prelacies with gallant
gentlemen, with their dancing minions, and with
their fresh companions; so that ploughing is set
asid~ and by the lording and loitering, preaching
and ploughing is clean gone.
•• But now, for the fault of unpreaching prelates,
methinks I could guess what might be said for ex-
cusing of them. They are so troubled with lordly
living; they be so placed in palaces; couched in
courts; rufiling hi their rents ; dancing in their
dominions; burdened with embassages; pampering
of their paunches, like a monk that maketh his
jubilee ; munching in their mangers, and moiling in
_their gay manours and mansions, and so troubled
with lording in their lordships, that they cannot
attend it."-8ermon on the Plough.
The wordi of the venerable martyr, Tyndal; are
not less striking:-" Wo to the realm where prelates
are of the council ! As profitable are the prelacy to
the realm with their counsel, as wolves to the sheep,
as fo:tes to the geese;• for there is no mischief, or
• At Blackburn, when making some alterations in.the church,
a piece of carved worlt was lately discovered, in which some
wag of a workman bad actually delineated this scene-the fox
preaching to the geese.
ab,Google
PRlBSTCJU.P'I
disorder, whether it be in the temporal regiment or
the spiritual, whereof they are not the chief causea-,
and even the very foundation and spring ; so that it
is impossible to preach against any mischief, tmlesa
thou begin at them; or set up a11y l'eformation in the
world, except they are first reformed. They are aa
indurat as Pharoah, and therefore persecute God's
word, and the preachers thereof. They stir up mis-
chief in the world, setting princes to war ; they get
into the consciences of kings, and persuade them what
they list-neither can any king have rest for them.
They pretend they are for God and the church. but
their secret intent is to bring all under their power;
and when they are once set up on high, then are
they tyrants above all tyrants. • Bishops
that preach not, or that preach aught save God's
·word, are none of Christ's, nor of his anointing, but
servants of the beast, whose mark they bear, whose
word they preach, whose law they maintain clean
against God's law."
Such are the sentiments of these great lights of the
English Reformation, to whom our clergy now affect
to look up to as the founders of their church : and
what are the sentiments of the friends of the esta-
blishment in more modem times? Dr. King, Prin-
cipal of St. Mary Hall, Oxford, and author of
"Political and Literary Anecdotes ofhis own Times,"
who died in 1763, says-" To speak freely, I know
nothing that has brought so great a reproach on the
church of England as the avarice and ambition of
our bishops. Chandler, bishop of Durham, Willis,
bishop of Winchester, Potter, archbishop of Canter-
bury, Gibson and Sherlock, bishops of London, all
dieclahamefuUy rich;• some of them worth more than
• These are said to have been Chandler's own words, on his
death-bed,-" I die 6ht~.mefully ricA."
Coogle
IN ALL AOBI.
100,0001. I must add to these, my old antagolrist.
Gilbert, predecessor to Drummond, the present
archbishop of York. Some of these prelates were
esteemed great divines, and I know they were learned
men-but they could not be called good Chriatians.
The great wealth they heaped up, the fruits of their
bishoprics, and which they left to enrich their fami-
lies, fllaa not their own ; it was due to God, to the
church and their poor brethren."
Blackwood's Magazine, the great champion of
Toryism and the church, in a fearful article in Nov.
1830, on the present state of the establishment, than
which nothing more startling and severe ever was
written by its worst enemies, asks,-" Why is this
man made a bishop 1 He has been tutor in one
family, or he is connected in blood with another,• or
• Mr. Beverly fives the following list of bishops as they
were at the date o the publication of his Horrida Hystrix, in
1826:-
Tomline, Bishop of Winchester, tutor to Pitt.
Haye, Bristol, married a Mortloclt, whose family
govern the borough of Cambridge for the
Rutland interest.
Bethel, ---Gloucester, tutor to the Duke of North-
umberland.
Bloomfield,--- Chester, married into the Harvey family.
Sllarpe, ---Ely, tutor to the Duke of Rutland.
Pelham, - - - Lincoln, brother to the Earl of Chichester.
Huntingdon,--- Hereford, tutor tu Lord Sidmouth.
Howley, ---London, tutor to Prince of Orange.
Law, - - - Bath and Wells, brother to Lord Ellen-
borough.
To these we may now add :-
Grey, Bishop of Hereford, brother of Lord Grey.
Poynton, ----Derry, brother-in-law of Lord Grey.
Ryder, - - - Lichfield, brother of Lord Harrowby.
Bagot, ---- Oxford, brother of Lord Bagot.
Vernon, Archbishop of York, brother of the late Lord Vernon.
"'·Coogle
PIUBSTCR.AFT
he enjoys the patronage of some polluted female
fa~urite of royalty, or he is the near relative of the
minister ; or at the nod of the premier he has been a
traitor to the church in a matter affecting her ex-
istence."
If such be the nature of English episcopacy, as
delineated by its founders and friends ; if it exists
only for purposes of state, or the aggrandisement of
political tools and family flatterers, to what part of
the system must we look for that moral discipline
which a Christian church requires ? Is it to the
archdeacons and their deputies ? They are busied
in the bishop's courts, collecting his revenues, or
transacting his secular matters of wills and licenBeS ;
and as to those archidiaconal functions which haYe
reference to the moral conduct and personal duties of
the parochial clergy, the ReY. Dr. Nihill, one of their
own body, declares that "any archdeacon who should
attempt to rev'ive the full powers with which he is
theoretically armed, would only expose himself and
the church to derision."
Is it then to the deans and chapters we must turn ?
Why, these are mere excrescences in this diseased
and disjointed system. They have no vital connec-
tion with any part of it. They exist only for them-
selves; and have been happily termed the rotten
boroughs of the church. The deans and chapters
nominally elect the bishops ; but this is mere farce--
the ministers of the crown do it virtually. The only
real functions of the chapters are to perform service
in the cathedrals, and to keep them in order. For
this they possess about half a million of yearly in-
come. Their only object is to draw clergymen from
their own proper livings, to cluster in idleneaa round
these great buildings, thus aggravating the already
IN ALL AGES. 347
crying sin of pluralities,-which pluralities the canons
of the church declare to be "execrable before God."•
In thus going through this great and imposing
pageant of our national establishment, endowed with
its eight millions a-year, and crowded with its arch-
bishops, bishops, deans, archdeacons, prebendaries,
vicars-general, chancellors, commissaries, surrogate~,
registrars, proctors, apparitors, etc. etc., we can dis-
cover no real system of moral discipline ; no effective
connection between these officers and the parish
clergy. These live as the ancient Dannites did,
" every man doeth what seemeth good in his 01m
eyes ;" and who shall hinder him 1 The arch-
deacon may, if his own hands are clean-which they
seldom are, being generally one of those " execrable
before God,"-a pluralist, a sinecurist, a non-resi-
dent, most probably one of the " sect ofprebendaries;"
as Cranmer calls them, " good vianders, too much
given to belly cheer;" he may cause the church-
wardens to present such delinquents in the Bishop's
• The collegiate church of Southwell, a village of Nottin¥-
hamshire, has sixteen of these "good vianders" belonging to It,
with incomes of from 300!. to 600!. each ; and these preben-
dariel, with the vicars-choral, share amongst them twenty-three
livings, most of which they supply with curates, seldom or ev.
er
see the places themselves; and besides this, are compelled by
tenure of the prebend to desert their own .Proper livings for three
months every fourth year to officiate in th1s church. The conse-
quence is that effective duty is done no where. The vicar of St.
Mary's, of this town, a parish of 30',000 inhabitants, has been
recently performing his prebendal duties at this village, while his
own large parish has been committed to curates ; and, as often
happens where a man has too many irons in the fire, one of tbetle
deputies l!'ot drnnlt, staggered up on the Sunday morning into
the pulpit, gave out the afternoon prayers, committed other
similar eccentricities, to the amazement . of the people, and
finished, on discovering his blunder, by bursting 1nto a great
horse-laugh. Of course the man was removed, bat not the
scandal.
348 PRIESTCRAFT
Court ; and the bishop may reprimand or menace;
and what will they heed? Nothing! They know
that neither archdeacon nor bishop have power to
eject them from their livirigs. They boast of their
independence of the people, as one of the chief
beauties of their system ; and they may boast of
their independence of the bishop, for it is equally
jlositive. Let the bishop bring a guilty clergyman
before his tribunal; convict and sentence him to
deprivation ; he turns upon his diocesan with the
stubborn truth, that his living is his freehold, in
many cases a purchased freehold, and who shall de-
prive him of it ? Let attempt be made to carry the
sentence into effect, the delinquent will appeal from
court to court till the costs amount to from four to
seven thousand pounds, and which he knows how to
cast entirely on the bishop. Such a power of expul-
sion is, in fact, no power at all. Bishop Porteus
tried it, and it has been tried in a few instances since,
but prelates in general know better how to spend
their revenues, and so all control of the clergy be-
comes a dead letter.
Thus, having shewn that the whole English
hierarchy, with its courts and officers, exists merely
for splendour, for political and personal objects, we
must now contemplate the parish clergy as an irule-
pendent bodg, and the onlg bodg actually employed
for purposes of religious instruction. To do this
properly, we will inquire how these ministers enter
the church, what kind of men does enter, and what
kind is kept out.
A foreigner, well acquainted with the general cha--
racter of Englishmen ; who had learnt our spirited
love of freedom ; who knew the license of remark
assumed by our newspapers ; our feverish anxiety
for the purity of parliamentary elections ; the fer-
IN ALL AGES. 349
ment they invariably throw the whole nation into ;
who had observed how the same spirit was carried
down to the most trivial offices of municipal corpora-
tions; nay, into the choice of a sexton, or a watch-
man ; would etand in astonishment when he came to·
inquire into the mode of appointing our national
teachers of religion. When he saw the jealous care
with which we cling to every imagined right ; that
to assume an air of dictation in the smallest of our
affairs,-to say to a gentleman,-" take this man for
your groom, or your gamekeeper;" nay, to the
poorest pauper who receives his weekly dole at the
workhouse,-" lay out your money in this or that
manner-with this or that person;" to tell the very
scavenger in the street to hold his broom in a manner
different to that dictated by his own well-satisfied
mind,-I say when he saw the wrath and indignation
with which such interference would be received ; what
must be his amaze to find that this great, this wise,
this liberty-loving, this tremblingly sensitive people,
JllOSt readily abandoned all right of private judgment
in the choice of its most important functionaries-
the teachers of religion, and that to the most stupid,
most wicked, and venal of the community ? The
immediate conclusion at which he would arrive must
be, that, as a nation, we were totally devoid of re-
ligious feeling. He never, otherwise, could compre-
hend how we can thus lay down our beloved free-will
on the most sacred of occasions, an occasion vitally
.affecting the eternal well-being of ourselves and
children ; to say nothing of the shame of being duped
and preyed on in the most open manner, by the
greedy and the ignorant. How we can take fire at a
single phrase in a discussion over our wine, and run
out and shoot at one another; how we can enter into
the most bitter, endless, and rninous contentions
850 PIUESTCRAF,.
about the direction of a hedge or a ditch, and yet can
suffer ourselves to put our consciences into the keep-
iDg of mercenary statesmen, pampered prelates, and
heavy-headed country squires, to be treated as a
nation of children or idiots !
This amazing spectacle is produced by one of those
anomalies of the English mind that fill the world
with wonder. We are burningly alive to our rights
when we once comprehend them ; but the miracle of
the thing is, that custom has such a power of blindiBg
us, that in many cases where other people would see
through the subject-matter in a moment, we stand
with Our eyes open, but perceive nothing ; our senses
are bound up as by witchcraft ; we go about in a sort
of noonday somnambulism, and our neighhours laugh
in our faces, and pick our pockets at pleasure.
When we wake, however, it is with a sudden start,
and with a terrible spirit of retribution upon us. Let
us see if we cannot burst from our trance.
The present situation of the English church is this.
-Here is a glorious Diltion, the most powerful and
refined, and with the exception of America, the most
free in the world ; a nation impatient of despotism,
and intolerant of monopoly ; which has spent millions
of money, and thousands of lives, to break the tyranny
of Buonaparte ; which has cast down the monopoly
of parliamentary representation ; the monopoly of
trade to the East; and yet sits quietly under the
most foolish, fatal, and insulting monopoly imagi-
nable. The privilege of choosing its own ministers
of religion is snatched from it ; yet it bears it: it
sees this privilege usurped by the sordid, the igno-
rant, the worldly-minded; by the distant, the un-
known, by anybody but itself, and yet it feels no re-
sentment. It sees the dissenters exercising this right,
and flourishing under it, yet it feels no shame ; it
I!J ALL AGES. 351
beholds their ministers orderly and zealous,-its own,
scandalous and apathetic, yet it is not roused to self,.
vindication. This is a spectacle sufficiently degrad-
ing, but it is a part only of the marvel. , It sees its
church livings openly sold to the highest bidder,
however unqualified or profligate, and the whole land
polluted with stMONY from one end to the other.
A calculation founded on the population returns
of 1821 makes the following the state of church
patronage :-
Livings in the gift of the crown
, , , bishops
, , , deans and chapters
" " "
universities
"
,
"
private people •
1,048
1,301
982
743
6,619
10,693
The first are notoriously made use of by ministers
to purchase adherents. By means of these, parlia-
mentary votes are bought, and popular liberty sold.
By means of these, corrupt legislators and corrupt
subservient parsons are dispersed through the
country to aid the views of government. During
the long reign of the Tories, which has heaped such
debt and difficulties on our heads, these state-bene-
ficed parsons were loud in the pulpits, busy at pub).ic
meetings and public dinners, busy in all houses where
they had access, especially those of the squirearchy,
disseminating those doctrines which have brought us
to the brink of ruin.
The livings in the gift of the bishops go, of course,
amongst their sons and relatives, or to the slaves of
government, for whom they were expressly reserved
as the price of the bishop's own preferment. "There
is, too, a species of simony," says the author of
Ecclesiastical Reform, a beneficed clergyman in 1792,
~ 'W'1iicfl prevails' in our 'church, styled PET'l'tt:'OAT
SIMONy j where a clergyman, by marrying the'niece
cir'daughter of a bishop, becomes a pluralist of large
income, his lady being portioned out of the church.
I could point out several persons now living; but it
might seem invidious, and shall therefore only in-
stance a notorious one. The Dean of Cantetburr
married a daughter of Archbishop Potter's, and be~
came possessed of six or seven pieces of preferment,
to the amount of above 4,0001. a year of the chm:ch
revenue, by way of marriage portion."
This was the man satirized by Hogarth, in the
print of the "Ass laden with Preferment;" but, so
far from being abashed by the sarcasm, he publicly
declared ,tbat Mr. Hogarth was mistaken in making
his back bend under the load, for he could bear a
great deal more.
:. The livings in the hands of deans, and chapters,
and universities, every one knows, are snugly divided
amongst their own members; those of private people,
of course, go amongst the sons and relations of the
patrons, but if these are wanting, they are publicly
sold to the highest bidder. The traffic in church
livings is one of the most notorious things in England.
The oath on the institution to a living is studiously
framed in the most solemn and particular manner to
prevent this sin of simony; but it matters not,-he
who does not boggle at simony, will not boggle at an
oath. Public offices are opened in London for the
sale and purchase of livings; and I have in my pos-
session a printed circular letter of one of the holy
agents-a letter industriously introduced amongst
the clergy, patrons and those concerned in such
affairs. In this " he submits to the clergy,"-these
are hia·OWtfwords,-" a scale of charges for buainess
intrusted to his csre ; he also takes this opportuDity
Coogle
1Jl .&l.L .&.GJ:S.
to express his acknowledgments fO'T' the "ertl e:cte.-
3ifle patronage he hal had during the last ten year1,
and to assure the clergy, that every commission con-
fided to his care will continue to be .,xecuted with
fidelity and promptitude.
"TBRJIS:
." INTRODUCTORY FEE, ONE GUINEA.
To be con&iclered aa parl payment of the .forat commil-
miuion ezceeding that amount.
.. f } if the purchase-money
For the sale 0 an advow- doeanotexceed4000l.
son - - - - - - 2}- per cent.
" For the purchase of an is above 40001. and
}
if the purchase-money
advowson - - - - under 7000l. zt per
cent. ·
. ] if the ·purchase-money
" For the sale of a next is above 70001. and
presentation to a living under 10,0001. 2 per
cent.
"F th L--- f } if the purchase-money
or e PW:c......, 0 ~ ~ext is above 10 0001 1s
presentation to a livmg t ' • -c
per cen.
"For the eale of a chapel - - ·
"Forthepurcbaseofachapel • - - -
"For procuring a foreign
chaplaincy - - - -
" For procuring lectureship
"For procuring a curacy
for a client in orders -
·~For procuring an ex-
change of a living or a
curacy - - - - -j
5percent.on theamount
of one year's emolu-
ment.
" E.,ery d.ucriptitm of clerical burittua tr~MN~~Ctetl•
liflitJgB t~alwetl, etc. etc.
" I'OR EVI.:aT LETTER WRITTEN, 3a. 6d.."
2 .....
. ,,Coogle
·· Me then proceeds·to' ..inform ·the ·clergy·t,bM, he
hu always the ·~ of ae~eral highJg ~
clergymen on his books, and can supply at a 4ay
or two's notiee, deputies to those.who·incline to ·be
absent: that he has always an e::l:tellsive ijst of
livings for sale, curacies vacant; livings, chaplainciet
and'.curacie1t for exchange. Begs them to remark,
that all communications to and from him .are stricllj
ctmfidential, ·offers his eervieea 'to ·,·•pare them all
publicity in advertisirig, ~tc., and then· boastll..taat.
h& has been already employed by upwards of .5000
clergymen! ! !. .
Accordingly advertisements appear every day in
the public paper!!, offering edvo11180118 and next pre-
.eatations for.sale,.or s~king to purcha.a.e suoh; .and
even the evangel.ical clergy are not too evangelical to
enter the sheepfold of Christ by this simoniacal golden
ladder ; and thus, in the expresa terms of Chriat
himeelf, brarid themselves as " thieves and robbers."
The law allows.~e ~ale : of advowsons; and to pur-
chase an advowson, a clergyman therefore thinka no
simony. It is the law, he says; md' therefore not
wrong. No! not wrong, when your·canons declue
it simony? when you swear a solemn oath that you
have obtained the living neither by money nor
favour? What the law contemplates is, the sale of
advowsons from one layman to another: ht·it is
the clergyman who volunteers ·himself aa a pur-
chaser, and does purchase with a clear knowledge
~hat he outrages the spirit .of the law, thGugb be·
evades the letter : that he actually comtnita .oral
simony, and perjures himself by taking the most'
solemn oath on the English Statute..Beok. ~11'
or not law, advowsons which the law ~UI, but
the caaon forbi.de,.·Gr aut pre~~eatati.o1111> Which ~
forbid, it seemJ all one· to the clezgy,-there are
Coogle
IN' AU.. A6BS. 8155
,pklnty pf :purchasea ; ·&nd their agent boast& of
~having had his 5000 customers for his limoniaeal
.wa:rea.
· " The commerce in the :souls of ·men,'' says their
own Mr. Scott, in his Commentary on the Revela-
tions, " is the. most infamous of all tndlica that the
demon of avarice ever deviled, bul bg •o me""" uw-
common. • , • The slave·trade, cruel,
unrighteous, and hateful as it is, is not·the worst
traffic of our land-for the souls of men are traded
fur by those -.ho take the care of them, for the sake
Qf the emolu.ments, and the abundance of the deli-
caciet obtained by it; and then, either leave them to
perish in ignorance, or poison them by heresy, ·or
lead them on the road. to heil by a profligate ex-
ample." ·" A ·clergyman," says the author of Eecle..
&~tical nerorm, "upon his institution, swears that he
gaJJe Rot the lea# cOMitkration UJhate.er, eilher himulf
tlifoectly or Wlirecdg, nor ang per4on for l&im, UJith his
pritJitg, kfWUJledge, or.coment, when peihapa he had
been personally treating with the patron for the
purchaae, and even present at the payment of the
money. · I was witne~s to a notorious instance, m
the diocese of .Lincoln, where both patron and in-
cumbent were present at the.payment; yet the latter,
a few days after, took the simoniscal oath, without a
IICI'Uple, and :aow resides upon that benefice, near
Athereton, in .Warwickshire•" •
But volumes might be advanced on this subject.
It is a thing II() notorious, that I shall here stop, only
addiDg, ·that in general no decency or precaution is
taken in these bargainr: when there is any sense of
.aame, or.•tendemess. of conscience left, a man~s
friend, .or lawyer buys the-living. and pl'eleDts him
to it: he has ONLY to pay t'M mD'IIeg, ·
a.cl Near that
Pe - fiDt.ptfJd it. .'
2A2•
"" ,,Coogle
PRJ:£STCRAP'l'
The couequence of this base venality, of th&
hardened, shameless traffic in souls, is, that almost
all good men are thrust out of the church, by their
conscientious scruples against the oaths, and sub-
scription to the articles, as Milton tells us he was, or
by the mere weight of money ; and it is inundated
with those who have no conscience, no scruples, and
who have consequently covered it with disgrace-
with fine gentlemen, fox-hunters, haunters of levees,
drawing-rooms, theatres, operas, clubs, taTerns, races,
'hells, and places of worse name; flatterers of the
great; fl.utterers in assemblies and saloons; card-
players, dicers, cock-fighters, boxers; men who are
to be found all over the continent, and indeed the
world--ea:ce.pt at home; me:n who draw their annual
thousands from their parish livings, but spend them
in Italy, France, Germany, or perhaps so near home
as in London! where they are on tiptoe after pro-
motion, in that church in which they already disdain
to work. An eminent author, who has had occasion
to mix much amongst this class of men, for these
forty years, observed to me that he could say but
little good ofthem:-"They are," said he, "rich an
iulsettled generation; they cannot rest, they cannot
stay at home, being always agape after some fresh
in'eferment." "There has been," says the Rev. J.
Acast,er, in his "Church in Danger from Itself,"
" always a great and fearful laxity in this respect.
-Had not this been the case, the chnrch would never
have groaned under such a swarm of insufficient and
worthless creatures, as Hooker quaintly observe!l--
llD.d who, besides endangering the souls of millions,
have brought the priestly office into much contempt,
.and alienated the minds of men from the establish-
ment of the land."
· ~·Why,'' asks Blackwood's Magazine, after a
IN ALL AGES. 357
~imilar question respecting the bishops, "is tJll.S; ·
stripling invested with an important dignity in the
church? He is the illegitimate son of a member of
the royal family; or be is the same of some noble~
l!)an ; or ~e belongs to a family which, in considera-
tion of it1 will give the ministry a certain number of ·
votes in J>arliament. And why is this man endowed
with a jaluable benefice? He bas .potent interest;
or it 1ffil prevent him giving further opposition to
~ures for injuring the church; or be bas voted at
an election for a ministerial candidate; or .his con-
nexions have ..much election influence; or be is a
political tool of the ministry. . • The disposal
of church patronage in this manner is not the exception,
but the role: it is not a matter of secresy, or one
which escapes observation; it is looked upon as .a
thing of course; and so far has the monstrous abuse
be,en sanctioned by; custom, that, while no one ex•
pects to see a yacancy in the church filled according
to merit, the filling of it in the most profligate way
scarcely provokes reprobation.
"A great number of livings are private property.
On what principle are they disposed of.? . '!'he
owners fill them without the least regard for qualifi-
cation; they practically give them to their relatives
while yet in the womb or in the cradle: and theee
relatives enter into orders for no other reason than to
enjoy them as private fortunes: or, clergymen aad
others buy such lifJings solely for prifiate benefit. In
the appointment of curates, those are chosen wh.o
are the cheapest, the least formidable as rivals, and
in consequence, the most disqualified: care for the
interests of the church is out of the question. ·
" These are some of the inevitable con,seqpences.
In the first place, the office of clergyman is.~ught
by the very last people who ought to receive it,
358
Before it is decided th&t a yotith sllall be a 'barrister,·
a phySician, an officer in ihe ·army; or even a member
Of a mechaniCal trade, it is ~rtained that he- pos-
sesses the requisite ability' and tum of mind; but
his lack of these is too often·the reason on whieb·it
is ·decided that he shall be a clergyman. Howe'f'er
brainless or p~ he may be, ·he must still enter
into holy orders, because his mends have property
or interest in the church. Perhaps they select hlm
for it in preference to his brothers, because he haj>-
pens to be the dunce of the family. While the most
improper men are thus impelled to enter into holy
6rders, the most fitting men are restricted from it.
What can the man of talent and piety hope for as a
clergyman, if he be destitute of fortUne and friends!
Prefennent is io him iinpossible; his merit alone is
a positive bar to it. He ·can licafeely regard a curacy
a ·an attainable matter,-for·his ability might make
bin1 too popular; ·his integrity·might incapacitate
hjm for joinmg in illegal bargain ; and his piety
might bring on him the imputation of evangeliim.
To giye all this the most comprehensive powers of
mischief, almost any man may, so far as con~ms
ability and character, gain admission to holy orders.
A clergyman may be destitute of religious feeling;
he·•may be ~oHly immorlil; he may discharge his
duties in the most incompetent manner, ldld loae his
ftock;-he may·alliloat do anything short of lepl
crime; ·and atm. he will neither·forfeit his living, ·nor
·d'raw npon hlmself' any punishment. · ; · • , CGtt
·.- ringle tta.wn be vrged, ft!Ay tlair ~ lf4k of
things •hould be tOfltinued?" · ,·
· This,. surely, will be enough for anyman t1f rea-
.· son·or feeli'ft'g : ·a :deStiriptton of the clntreb; lrtade 'by
;; i~ own f.Mitds, representing' it more pemlcieus,
.. pro-te'tul(f nalioDal11;disgracefhl'tban any ehulda
o " b,Googlc
'11Pli.idl ~ter .existed, scarcely exce}ltiDg the papaUa
it.s worst d&ya. Mr. Acaster does not hesitate to
~ that, Wlleu unhoped.:.for·reformation comes, it
must speedily fall.. Not a syllable more is neceasary;
.yet, •before takiug leave of it, let UJ see in what
ijght.jt.is held by.intelligent foreigners; for they can
,have no :inteJ:est to conteud with, n~ partiality or
prejudice to blind .their judgment. · The German
e_rince P.uckler.Museaa, who a few yean ago visitell
l!dlgl$11d, doseribea the strange sensation it produced
in him to see clergymen flying ov.er hedge and ditcli.
after the hOunds,. or betting on the race ground ; .tO
find pre~~·.with their 50,000l. a year who never
preached, .paatora who never l&w their flocks, and in
IrelaJld .often.with aeveral thousands.a year, and no
fiock at all :He came to one place in which.t.he
protestant clergyman, compelled to preach once a year
in his •parocl:iial · c~h by the terms of his induc-
tiell to.the offiee, was obliged to get a catholic to.act
-~ clerk for him, theie·beingno single· protestant in
thahor .the adjoining parishes. Another foreign
nobleman also gives this . ,.
CHARACTER OF A DIGNIFIED ENGLISH
'CLERGYMAN.
;~~AD. Eng1iih clergyman fa a man of diatingtaished
birth; su.rround.ed. bY .a numerous family, provided
,mh' a ncb.:benefice, living .in. luxury, participating
in:ewry·pfuaaore;.in .all the•enjoyments of the w.orld,
'f'laYing, bunting, dancing, attencUng the ~tlea,
·ntitlter ga'ft.J)Ol' serious; unless nature has made
him'·ao: he is one who•·ho&rda .his emoluments in
·«ebtr &o settle U.·cbild.ren ; who spends his fortun~
.fa wageriJI(J, in hwael, indogs, sometimes (whel\lle
;jlt: thoughtlea& aBd · devoicl· qf foresight), . with a
18itVe•; .iJl:any,event,-giving .little to \he poo~:,.and
D obyGoogle
.........
·
-·
lesving tbefr C8l'e, and the fiaUllmeJlt of-datte. •htta.
he eiadains, .to some unfol1:unate curate, .who ful·
a mieerable atipeml is obliged to exhibit tile 'W'irtMlJ
which the incumbent despiaea and neglects.
".A.black dress, but not distinguished in ita eat :
from that-of ~e rest of society, is worn by clergymen·.
of boo toa, by those younger sons of noble familiea,.
who only belong to the church in consequence of tbe
fortune it provides for them. These are the priests
who are oftener seen at Epsom, Doncaster, aDil
Newma:rket, at the sporting parties of Norfolk aDd .
Yorklhire, than in the pulpit. The clerical c01tauu!
interferes in England with none of the enjoyments o!
the wo:r}d ; those who wear it do not hesitate to
appear at balls and routs, or in opera ata.Ua, anc1 ·
they ltav.e no scruples at being seen in a box at: tlte
Adelphl or the Olympic•
.. There are very few clergymen who know the
number or the names, or the wants of the poor
of their·parish ; these matters they consider aa being
out.of the pale of their obligations. They are not
seen leaving their commodioua dwellings to ait· b.y
the bed of the sick, or to carry to the chamber of
death the consolations of religion."-(Great Brilailt
in 1833, bg Baron tl'Ha~Usez).
Here, then, let ua pause with this ooncluding
observation. There are fond friends of the clnueJa
who will say all ita ministers are not such. Tbq
are not. We will hope and believe that there are.DOt
wanting really good men: amongst them ; but how
few niuat they be under such a tystem t Tbeat
is one·clast indeed. which does not rank amoapt tbe
profiigate ; a claaa whieh goes under the na1be of
"good aort of men." . And what are thete good 10ft
of men? .. Why, thiy are .men who regnluiy lead
their.8Uild&y aemlOJl, . ancl are ·aober awl quiet 1daeD
Coogle
theJ-.ar& aeen. Thq aro.me:n that one ahobld DOt
bJame,i£ they were merelylayma, and should lllo&
blame now, ezeepl that they do nothing 1M read -
their sermon ; that on week: days they Ke aearcely ·
to1»e found in their parish three houn ; or if they.be,
it.ia either farming or dining with the squire. As to
·
viaidng the poor, enlightening their ignomnce, com-. ·.
fo.rting .their haraued minds, sitting by the sick bed.
and.dleering the sinking soul with views of a better
wodd, promoting schools for the children, eantri- .
butiug to the wants of their humble parishioners, or,
in•ehort, exercising one of the many important tune- ·
tiona implied by the very name of a village .pastor,.
thete good sort of men are utterly strangers to the
whole business, and often totally unfit for it, were .
they disposed to attempt it. I knew the rector of a
large country parish, with at least 500 inhabitants, •
who the year round, excepting during the shooting
seaaon, when seen at all, was only seen to mount hit
gig immediately after breakfast, and drive away ;~ •. .
w~re he went, nobody seemed to know or inquire;. ,
all that was known of him was, that
Much to himself he thought and little spoke,
And, undeprived, his benefice forsook.
The poor people, when in need of sympathy and
solace. under the loss of their dearest relatives, or ·
wh~er the cheering voice of true religion is most
precious, would as soon have thought of seeking c.
it tiom the village butcher, as from him ; when on
themdeath-beds, they would as naturally have looked. :
for ·the prayers of the village pinder. They might .<
venture to open their hearts to the squim, in some of .,j
their ·little troubles, and ask him to see that there"
was a echool for their children, but to have told them ' ,,
that tbof should go to the rectoJt OJl: _
t.Jwe OCOJniOns,. .
as their appointed adviser :and best friend-thef
would have been stri(lken into a strange silence---:.
lind if you asked the cause of it, " oh ! the TeCtor
was such a gentleman, and SO' close, and they really
did not know much of him ;" (after ten years' poa-
seseion of the living)-oand yet they would add in
their ignorant simplicity, "but he·ia a good sort of
man ; he regularly does service once a ·week, and
marries and buries all himself!" What would
Bemard Gilpin or Georlf Herbert have said to
this " good sort of man ?'
, . ,,Coogle
llf AI.L AGI!f.
CHAPTER XXII.
TJtB EM'GLISH CHURCH-cONTINUED.
A CHAPTER OP WORTHIES,
The proud he tamed, the penitent he cheered,
Nor to offend the rich offender feared.
Hia preaching much, but more his practice wrought,-
A liring eennoo of the truths he taught;- ·
F.or thia by rules severe hia life he ~uared,
That all might see the doctrines wh1cb they heard :
" For priesta,, be said, " are patterns to the rest,-
The gold of heawen, who bear the God impressed :
But when the ~oua coin ia kept unclean,
The sovereign a image is no longer seen.
If they be foul, on whom the people trust,
Well may the baser brass contract a rust."
The prelate for his holy life be priaed :
The worldly·pomp of prelacy despised.
His Saviour came not with a gaudy •how,
Nor was his kingdom of the world below.
Patience in want, and poverty of mind,
These marks of church and churchmen he designed,
Aad liring taught, ud dying left behind. '·
The crown he woze waa of the pointed tbom ;
In purple he was cruci6ed,-not born.
They who contend for place and high degree,
Are not bia sons, but thoae of Zebedee.
Claaucer, mliM1 by DrgdM.
I have reaolved to aet down the form and character of a true
putor, that I may have a mark to aim at.
G«!rg« Hn'llm'• .ff'iMI to 1M Temple.
b is painful to dwell only npon evil ; and my sub-
ject baa necessarily confined me to this unwelcome
Coogle
Ptl'BI'l'C&AFf ·
task. Gladly would I escape from the delineation of
crime, oppression and delusion, practised, for selfish
pUrposes, but the nature of priestcraft is inseparable
from these things. I have found every system of
political religion so hostile to the growth of true
knowledge, so destructive of popular freedom and
happiness, that I have been constrained to cry vehe-
mently and unceasingly against it. . There have
been many friends of real Christianity, who have
looked with a more patient eye upon false systems
than I can ; have contended that they will fall in the
natural course of things; have regarded them as
being in some degree necessary in certain stages
of society ; and have satisfied themselves that when
the age has out-grown them, they consequently dis-
appear. I must confess I cannot acquiesce in this
doctrine. There may, it is true, be institutions
which, imperfect in themselves, are in advance of the
century in which they appear, and effecting a certain
degree of good, naturally fall before a still more
eulightened social condition. Such was the insti-
tution of chivalry. To our present view, it is a state
most out of nature; ludicrous and extravagant in the
highest degree ; yet it cannot be denied that it intro-
duced .into a despotic and iron age, a better tone
ot feeling :-that it gave more elevated motives to
the knightly tribe ; invested female delicacy and
tenderness wi~ greater in:fl.uence ; and taught sen-
timents of generosity to those who had only practised
bloodshed and rapine. But those gleams of good
which it caught from Christianity, the advancing
power of that religion soon swallowed up in stronger
light-chivalry became obsolete. The same may be
allowed of the preservation of the volumes of ancient
learning ; and above all, of the Bible, in the monas~
~es ; of the charities practised at their doors : but
16i
i{ it be contended that these services are arguments
for the continuance or admiration of Catho1icism,
l ·must totally dissent from the proposition. It is to
Christianity that this false religion owes these good
qUalities ; it is to that native light and heavenly
strength of Christ's religion, which it could not quench
with all its tyrannies and its sorceries, that it owes
these graces -not Christianity to it. I contend,
that had Christianity been permitted to follow ita
own course, had it been left to its own inherent
power of existence, had monarchs and priests never
attempted to smother it under pretence of caressing it,
it would have overflowed the nations with splendour,
have found means to preserve learning still more
perfectly, and spread charity a thousand times wider
and more abundantly. It would probably have pre-
vented that fall into utter and long darkness which
the world suffered. To assert, therefore, that we
owe these things-the preservation of ancient MSS.
and the practice of benevolence,_to Catholicism, is to
praise a bad and preposterous system for the destruc-
tion of one all beauty and perfection, and for living
in honour upon its relics. The immortal life of
Christianity, breathing and burning through its op-
pressions and disguisements, has embued even popery
with some traces of goodness ; but to take the glory
of it from Christianity, and give it to this poisonous.
nightmare, is the height of absurdity in reasoning.
It is to praise the murderer for arraying himself in
the graceful garments of the murdered : and for
attempting to purchase pardon, and even applause,
with the wealth he has snatched "VIith bloody ha:ade
from his victim. It is on a par with that logic ofthe;
church of England, which first seizes on the univer-
sities of the nations, endowed with the wealdl o£
4ings ind gendrous men, for the instruction o{ •~
.P&!BS'rC&.\'fT·
whole realm, carefullyabatl'outallclillentera, andthea
exclaims, See what great men I have produced ! ~t
is, in fact, the nation which baa prod~· them by~
noble academical endowment&-not the church; for
if the same universities had existed, and the chmcla
had not, the aame or greater mind!!, minds.certainly
more free and liber~, would have been produced bJ
the same institutions. ·
· What has been here said, may be repeated iD
greater or leu degree of every state-religion, and ~
suffer them to continue under the food hope that
growing knowledge will undermine them, is to tie up
the very handJ of that knowledge, and induce it t8
stand in indolent expectation. Alas ! we know too
well what motives of selfishneiB there are in men.'a
heartl to perpetuate evil systems ; we know with
what indefatigable &IBiduity the selfish labour to
blind those purposely retained ip ignorance, to the
real nature of that which feeds themselves; we ~·
how popery itself ia upheld in all its falae delumo•
thr.ough three-fourths of Europe; and how by it, aDd
by our hierarchy, ita firat-bom and legitimate child;
vice is tolerated, and knowledge and vital Christianity
are suffocated, that the indolent and the corrupt may
riot on the price of men'a souls. To wait i~y for the
natural fall of wicked ayatema, is the blindest of
policy, and the worst of treasons against mankind.
But while we condemn all political religiou ill
toto, let us beware of condemning innocent men. _I
have declared in the very outlet o£ my v.olume, that
excellent men are involved in the intri~ of the
worst systems. Let ua not spare .the &ystema for the
men, for auch men are necessarily few. 41114l the wel-
fare of all society.i4 concerned in the d~ of
nligioua impositions,-but let UJ! spare .dle men for
&laeir own ·aa.lu!a- In everJ·•YB• .llfof• sqeh ~
Coogle
ate to be fo~-men who are not good through the
system, but in spite .of it ;-men who, in their sim·
plicity .of heart, think little.of ilie.scheme witla which .
they are bound.up, so entixely are their soul• oec11pied
with the one great thought, to be and do .good; or if
t.lley think at.all of _
,be s.ystem, they are so blinded
by the power of education as _
not to perceive ita
defects ; or if they do .perceive .them, feel too much
their own individual weakness to think of contending
against a mighty national plan, but hope rather to
bring good out of evil. · •_
It will be a delightful employment to forget for a
moment the horroR and indignities.of the theme we
have thus far pursued, by fixing our attention on
those good men, the salt of the earth, the true.
beneficent children} of. that beneficent .Chrilt, who
81lfllered all evil, and wrought all goQd.
In the very heart of popery, numbers of such men
!lave, doubtless, in all ages existed. Amongst its
priests, in its convents,amongst the millions of simple
people who have received its dogmas as truths, and
have believed, foolishly perhaps, but sincerely, good
and bad, true and false, sublime and ludicrous
together, turning every thing by the .force of their
own ardent hearts into the aliment of piety ; amongst .
their mis11ionaries, who have gone forth east and west,
north and south, to preach and proselyte in all
nations, too often knowingly .to .exercise a wider
mental despotism, yet often also from a pme zeal for
God, and an lJl\Wee.rying love for men• We may be
allowed to suppose such men,-.even occasionally on
the aacetdotal throne of Ro,me itself; .amon9st thoee
digoitaries that &urrounded it ; amongst the bishops
~d. abbots, and very monka..themselves, that were·
•tationed. by; papal policy .in every Christian land.
Such spirits there must have I'Xis~..amongat ~e
PJUI&TC&A.r'f
crowds of women immersed in the sad and often cor;
rupt gloom of nunneries: such, we must believe, WeN
many of the simple pastors in different countriea ia
the days of Rome's widest dominion. Bad u th•
system was, and constructed especially for the grati-
fication of the worst species of domination, it ....
neither in its policy, nor its power to extinguia•
piety in the soul• of its working clergy and itt
people.
But we need only take one specimen-such was
Fenelon ! Where could there exist under any system
a more beautiful, consummate specimen of Christian
perfection than in this man ? I do not mean to say
that he was free from human errors or weakness ; but
that that perfection·of Christian benevolence, that
humility and piety of heart which Chriatianity can
alone inspire, dwelt eminently in him. He had
truly learned, what Coleridge has so beautifully
taught, that love ia the soul of the religion of Chriat;
. .
Farewell, farewell ! but this I tell
To thee, thou wedding-guest;
He prayeth well, who loveth well
Both man, and bird, and beast.
He prayeth best, who loveth best
All tbinp both great and small ;
For the dear God who loveth ua,
He made and loveth all.
His most conspicuous fault was that profound sub-
mission to the hierarchy of the church in which h•
had been educated,-a submission so absolute, aa i'
regarded its judgments upon himself, that he seemed
to lay down his understanding at the foot of the
papal throne. This was partly owing to the slavish
obedience which that church exacts, but it arose mor&
£rom the gentleness and self-abandoJUDent which
marked, lrll character.
·:'In ~is early youth.he was smitten with an inten.se
mi11sionary zeal. He offered himself to go and live
lhnongst the Canadian Indians, and afterwards 'to go
fo · the Levant ; but being thwarted in _
both these
objects, he afterwards was appointed to attempt with
oth:ers the conversion of the protestants in Poictou
and Saintonge. Here his truly Christian spirit ma-
nifested itaelf. It was the plan of Louis XIV. to
convert these people much in the Turkish style, with
the Bible in one hand, and the sword in the other ;
but Fenelon would not accept the office of missionary
among them till all the troops and apparatus of war
were removed from the district' to which he was
ordered. His request was granted, but the fatal
blow ·had already been struck ; terror and distrust
had been irrevocably instilled into the hearts of the
protestants; and all the efforts of Fenelon were fruit-
less. He was next appointed to superintend the
education of the young Duke of Burgundy ; and here
again he displayed the same beautiful wisdom and
virtue. He united all the instructors of the young
prince into one spirit of delightful concord ; and, in
spite or the worst natural disposition, formed the
youth to the highest promise of generous excellence.
Invincible obstinacy, a revolting pride, irascible pro-
pensities, and the most violent passions appeared to
characterize the boy: " He was born terrible," says
St. Simon, but from the hands of Fenelon and l1is
associates, he came forth a man glowing with the
noblest desires to live as a wise and beneficent prince,
-as·the father and benefactor of his people. Un-
fortunately for France, over which he would have
reigned, and for Fenelon, he died in early manhood.
Fenelon bad already felt the beatings of that ~torm of
envy and persecution which is sure to alight upon
him who dares to be ju!llt and good within the pre-
2 B*
Coogle
370
cincts of a court-he was already banished to 'his
diocese of Cambray, through the malice of the elo·
quent but envious Bossuet, bishop of Meaux, and
through the great crime of having written the story
of Telemachus for his royal pupil, and therein taught
him in the most attractive manner, sentiments worthy
of a Christian prince-sentiments of justice and be-
nevolence, of regard for his people's rights and wel4
fare. The publication of this excellent work is a
proof how totally Fenelon was destitute of ambition;
how completely his desire of doing good was his only
motive. He had merely given it to his pupil in
manuscript for his private study; it was surreptitiously
obtained and published by a servant. The banish-
ment to his diocese could be no afH.iction to himt
except in that it resulted from the death of Burgundy,
and terminated with that unhappy event views of
usefulness bounded only by the kingdom ; for he
would not accept the archbishopric without a stipula•
tion that he should be allowed to spend ten months
out of the twelve in his see. In the splendid court
of Louis XIV. he had preserved all the simplicity
and integrity of his character- here he shone, the
father and friend of the whole district. War, with
all its horrors, was around. The Duke of Marlbo-
rough, at the head of the Allied armies, in his career
of victory, was at hand, and the people had need ofa
place of refuge and a protector-they found both with
him. He visited the cottages of the peasants, and
administered consolation and relief in their distresles ;
he received them into his house, and served them at
his table. His dwelling became a sort of general
hospital; there the terrified and destitute fled, and
the sick and wounded were tended and restored. Be-
sides these common hospitalities to the military, he
opened his granaries in the disastrous winter of 1709,
IK ALL .tG-111. 371
ud distributed to the soldiers gratuitously corn to
the value of 100,000 livres. His noble character and
conduct won from the hostile coV}manders one of
those splendid instances of homage to the divine
nature of Christianity, with which men have some-
times honoured it and themselves. Marlborough
and the other generals of the Allies, struck with the
highest admiration of the good archbishop, exempted
his lands from pillage and exaction ; and resorted to
his palace to enjoy his conversation. So lived this
excellent man, with his hand and his substance dis-
tributing blessings ; and at the same time breathing
sentiments in accordance with his deeds-. "No hu-
man power,'' he would say, "can force the impene-
trable intrenchments of the freedom of the mind.
Violence can never persuade men ; it only makes
them hypocrites. When kings interfere in matters
of religion, instead of protecting her, they reduce her
to slavery. Give to all, then, civil liberty; not as
regarding anything as indifferent, but as enduring
with patience what God permits." So lived and died
this admirable follower of Christ; and the love and
veneration of all posterity have continued, and will
continue to attend his memory. Alas! that more
will not learn to tread in his steps, to ·become instru-
ments of the same good, to win the same everlasting
honour from the affections of men.
Such a man was our own Bernard Gilpin, called,
for his zeal and virtue, the Apostle of the North.
How the heart glows and expands at the contempla-
tion of such noble beings. Bernard Gilpin, like
Fenelon, was educated a papist, but becoming,
from the growing influence of protestantism, uneasy
with its dogmas, he was advised by his uncle
Tonatal, bishop of Durham, to go abroad for a
year. or two to converse with the most eminent
2 B. 2
, . ,,Coogle
87fl · P~IBSTCB.APT
professors of both faiths. But here a difficulty pre-
sented itself-the expense-. The bishop told him his
living would in part supply that; but Gilpin's con·
science could not tolerate the idea of what is so easily
tolerated by thousands of our present clergy ; his
notions of the pastoral care were so strict, that he
thought no excuse could justify non-residence for so
considerable a time as he intended to be abroad ; he
therefore resigned his living to a suitable person, and
set out. He spent three years in Holland, Germany,
and :Florence ; andi returned during the period of the
Marian persecution. His uncle presented him with
the rectory of Easington, and made him archdeacon
of Durham ; but his conscience would not long let
him hold them : he resigned them, and accepted the
rectory of Houghton~a pastoral charge, more conso-
nant to his notions of ministerial duty. This rectory
was worth about 400l. per annum-a large sum for
that day ; but it was proportionably laborious, being
so extensive as to contain no less than fourteen
villages, overcast with the darkness of popish igno-
rance and superstition. He preached and labOUred
with the zeal and affection of a primitive apostle;
the people Hocked about him with enthusiasm, and
received from him at once temporal and spiritual
blessings; and his enemies were as much exasperated.
He was pointed out as a proper victim to that mon-
ster of all priestly butchery, the "Bloody Bonner,"
and was speedily apprehended by the emissaries of
that detestable wretch. His friends had not failed in
time to warn him of his danger; but he refused to
fiy. He had even a garment made, in which be
might go decently to the stake, and used daily to put
it on till he was taken into custody. Fortunately,
the queen died before he reached London ; and he
returned ·to his parish. amid the joyful acclamations
IN ALL AGBS, 378
of his delighted people. Here he continued to live
and labour in all good works : he established schools,
obtaining able masters from Oxford ; and when he
met a boy upon the road, he would .make a trial of
his capacity by a few questions; and ifhe found him
to his mind, he sent him to school, and if he there
·kept up his first promise, afterwards to the univer-
sity. Many of his scholars became ornaments to the
church and nation,-amongst them Henry Ayrey,
provost of Queen's College; George Carleton, bishop
of Chichester; and Hugh Broughton.
· His hospitable manner of living was the admiration
of the whole country; and strangers and travellers
met with a cheerful reception. Even their beasts
bad so much care taken of them, that it was hu-
morously said, if a horse was turned loose in any
part of the country, it would immediately make its
way to the rectory of Houghton. Every Sunday,
from Michaelmas to Easter, was a sort of public day
with him. During this season he expected to see all
his parishioners and their families, whom he seated,
according to their ranks, at t~ee tables ; and when
absent from home the same establishment was kept
up. When Lord Burleigh, then Lord Treasurer, was
sent on public affairs into Scotland, he unexpectedly
paid a visit to Mr. Gilpin; but the economy of his
house was not easily .disconcerted ; and he enter-
tained the statesman and his retinue in such a manner
as made him acknowledge he could hardly have ex-
pected more at Lambeth. Lord Burleigh made great
offers of advancement to him, which he respectfully
but firmly declined, feeling persuaded he was in a
far more useful sphere than in a bishopric. On look-
ing back from an eminence, after he left Houghton,
Burleigh could not help exclaiming, " There is ·the
enjoyment of life.indeed! · Who can blame that man
Coogle
374 PlUESTCRAFT
for not accepting a bishopric ? What doth he want
to make him greater, happier, or more useful to
mankind?"
"Mr. Gilpin's labours," says his worthy descend-
ant and biographer, the late Rev. William Gilpin,
.. extended beyond his own parish. He every year
visited divers neglected parishes in Northumberland,
Yorkshire, Cheshire, Westmoreland, and Cumber-
land; and that his own flock might not 11uffer, he
was at the expense of a constant assistant. In all
his journeys, he did not fail to visit the gaols and
places of confinement; and by his labours and affec-
tionate manner of behaviour, he is said to have re-
formed many abandoned persons, in those abodes of
human misery. He had set places and times of
preaching, in the different parts of the country, ldllch
were as regularly attended as the assize times of a
circuit. If he came to a place in which there was a
church, he made use of it; if not, of barns, or any
other large buildings, where great crowds were sure
to flock,-some, probably, for his bounty,-but he
had a sort of enthusiastic warmth in his addresses,
which roused many to a sense of religion who bad
never thought of anything serious before. The
dangers and fatigues attending this employment,
were, in his estimation, abundantly compensated by
the advantages accruing from them to his wrinstructed
fellow creatures. He did not spare the rich. Barnes,
bishop of Durham, who had sueceeded his uncle
Tonstal, was early prejudiced against him by his
enemies. The bishop therefore resolved to go and
hear him preach; and Gilpin prepared him such a
sermon as terrified all his friends-they considered
it all over with him, and blamed him severely for
giving the bishop such a handle against him. He
only replied, that 'if the discourse should do the
IN ALL AGES. 37~
good he intended, he was regardless of its conse-
quences to himself.' He had laid down the duties
of a Christian bishop in the freest and most energetic
terms. He immediately called on the prelate, who
said, ' Sir, I intend to wait on you home myself.'
When they arrived at the rectory, and entered the
house, the bishop turned suddenly round, and grasp·
ing him eagerly by the hand, said, 'Father Gilpin, I
know you are fitter to be bis~op of Durham, than I
am to be parson of this church of yours. I ask for-
giveness of past injuries. Forgive me, father; I
know you have enemies; but while I live to be
bishop of Durham, none of them shall cause you any
further trouble.'" Noble Gilpin! noble bishop!
such an incident is worth a thousand pages of the ordi-
nary annals of priests and prelates. Here then lived
and died this good old man. He is said, by unwea-
ried application, to have amassed a vast stock of
knowledge; to have been ignorant of no part of
learning in esteem at that time; to have been more
than usually skilled in the classic languages, history,
and poetry, in which he excelled: but every thing
he made subservient to the more ennobling and
advantageing of his Christian ministry.
He bore his great commission in his look,
But sweetly tempered awe, and softened all be spoke.
He/reached the joys of heaven, and pains of bell,
An wlli'Jied the sinner with becoming zeal;
But ou eternal mercy loved to dwell.
He taught the gospel rather than the law,
And forced himself to drive, but loved to draw.
Now through the land hia cure of souls he stretched,
And like a primitive apostle preached;
Still clulerful, ever constant to his call;
By many followed, and admired by all.
Such was the aaiut, who shone with every grace,
Reflecting, Moses-like, his Maker's face.
God saw his lively ima_ge was expressed,
Aad hia own work, as ID creation, bleued.
CluJucer'1 Good PaMm,
"'Coogle
3(6 P)ll,ES'fCIUl'T
For his exemplary piety, for his laborious virtae;
and unbounded benevolence, he deserves to have his
name transmitted to all posterity with the'reverence
felt, and the title conferred on him by his eotempo-
raries-the Apostle of the North.
Such men, too, were those who watched over the
infant fortunes of the Reformation in England. We
need not say more of them, for they sealed their tes-
timonies in their blood. We have already seen, that
although Cranmer, Ridley, Latimer, Grindal, Taylor
of Hadleigh, and their cotemporaries, had many of
the errors of their papal education clinging about
them, they were honeiJtly resolved, ready from their
souls to live and die for what they deemed the truth,
and that if kingly power had not prevented it, they
would have brought the English church far nearer
the Christian standard. Such afterwanls were Arch-
bishops Abbot and Usher. Such were there, too,
amongst the parish clergy, and, pre~eminently,
George Herbert. .
This good man was brother of the celebrated Lord
Herbert of Cherbury, who, himself a disbeliever, has
left the highest testimony to the Christian worth of
George. In his youth, George Herbert was, like his
brother, much of a courtier, and a most ingenious
flatterer. He was born in 1593, at Montgomery
Castle. In·1619 he was appointed University orator
at Cambridge; but being a great proficient in music,
to which he was enthusiastically attached; of fasci-
nating person and manners ; fond of gaiety of dress
and life; and of great ingenuity of wit, and mental
attainments ; his society was cotu;ted by the great
and fashionable, and not less'by the learned. Lord
Bacon is .said to have consulted him on his writings
before they went to press, and dedicated to him his
translation of some of the Psalms, as the best judge
IN ALL AGES. 877
of sacred poetry. The king was fond of his conver-
sationr.bishop Andrews was a great admirer of him ;
aud Sir Henry Wotton, Dr. Donne, and other cele-
brated men of his time, were amongst his associates.
The court appeared, therefore, the fit element for
such a character; and ,there be, in fact, was chiefly
to be found, But fortunately for himself and for
others, his prospects there were blasted by the death
of his chief patrons, the Duke of Richmond and the
Marquis pf Hamilton, and finally by that of James
himself. T~se losses gave his mind such·a shock
and an awakening, that be retired into the country,
and lived some time in the strictest privacy, review-
ing with regret his past life, and resolving thence-
forth ·to dedicate himself to the service of religion.
"I will," he said, "consecrate all my learning, and
all my abilities, to advance the glory of that God
who gave them; knowing that I can never do too
much Jor Him that has done so much for me as to
make me a Christian. And I will labour to be like
my Sa_viour, by making humility lovely in the eyes
of all men ; and by following the merciful and meek
example of my dear Jesut~." Such was his resolu-
tion; and few men have tpore entirely fulfilled it, in
every respect. His life from this time became a
pattem to an, and especially to his brethren in the
church.
. One of his first acts was to rebuild the parish
church of Leighton Bromswold, in the diocese of
Lincoln, at risk .of great expense to himself; but he
principally passed his short, but memorable life on
his living at Bemerton, in Wilts. Here he lived as
Gilpin had lived in the north, making himself the
blessing of his flock. Here he wrote his " Priest to
the Temple, or Country Parson," an admirable manual
Coogle
378 l'IUESTCIU.FT
for a parochial pastor, and one which, would our
clergy model themselves upon, would soon produce,
not merely a reform of the church, but of the whole
country.
"The Country Parson," says this excellent model ·
of one himself, " is exceedingly exact in his life ;
being holy, just, temperate, bold,-grave in all his
ways. And because the two highest points of life
wherein a Christian is most seen, are patience and
mortification-patience in regard of afflictions-mor-
tification, in regard of lusts and affections, and the
stupefying and deadening all the clamorous powers
of the soul, therefore he hath thoroughly studied
them, that he may be absolute master and com-
mander of himself, for all purposes which God hath
ordained him. Yet in these points he labours most
in those things which are most apt to scandalize his
parish. And first, because country people live
hardly, and consequently knowing the price of
money, are offended much with any who, by hard
usage increase their travel, the country parson is very
circumspect in avoiding all covetousness; neither be-
ing greedy to get, nor niggardly to keep, nor troubled
to lose any worldly wealth; but in all his words and
actions elighting and disesteeming it, even to the
wondering that the world should so much valne
wealth, which in the day of wrath hath not one dram
of comfort for us. Secondly, because luxury ia a
very visible sin, the parson is very careful to avoid
all the kinds thereof, especially that of drinking.
Thirdly, because country people, as indeed all honest
men, do much esteem their word, it being the life (/.
buying, and selling, and dealing in the world, there-
fore the parson is very strict in keeping hia word,
though it be to his own hindrance; as, knowing that
IN ALL AGES. 370
if he is not so, he will quickly be discovered, and
disregarded ; neither will they believe him in the
pUlpit, whom they cannot trust in his conversation.
" The country parson preacheth constantly; the
pulpit is his joy and his throne ; if he at any time
intermit, it is either for want of health, or against
some festival, that he may the better celebrate it; or
for the variety of the hearers, that he may be heard
at his return more attentively. When he intermits,
he is ever very well supplied by some able man, who
treads in his steps, and will not throw down what he
hath built. When he preacheth, he procures attention
by earnestness of speech ; it being natural to men to
think, that where there is much earnestness there is
something worth hearing• .•••. The country parson
is full of charity: it is his predominant element; for
many and wonderful things are spoken of thee, thou
great virtue. • . . • • The country parson, when any
of his cure is sick, or affected with loss of friends or
estate, or any ways distressed, fails not to afford his
best comforts. • • • • • Love is his business and aim.
That minister that hath a poor living, and
yet lives well, and does as much good as is possible
to be done by any one that hath no better, shall have
praise both of God and man. I have not observed
any one thing that hath occasioned so much contempt
of the clergy as unwillingness to take or keep a POOR
LIVING. A holy man in a poor Uoing is in a kingdom;
if there be a kingdom of heaven upon earth, as I
believe I know there is."
He wrote, besides this, several other works,'the
best known of which is " The Temple." This made
him the most popular poet of the day: 10,000 copies
of it were sold. It has been recently reprinted; and
if we are disposed now to be more critical upon it
than his cotemporaries were, yet it must be allowed
380 PRIESTCII.AFT·
to contain·some very beautiful passages, much excel-
lent sense, and matter, if applied to our own times,
that appears almost verified into prophecy. As this:
Religion stands on tiptoe in our land,
Ready to pass to the American strand~
When height of malice, and prodigious lusts
Impudent sinnings, witchcrafts and distrusts,
The marks of future bane, shall fill our cup
Unto the brim, and malr.e our measure up;
Then shall religion to America flee ;-
They have their times of gospel, even as we.
My God, thou dost prepare for them a way
By carrying first their gold from them away :
For gold and grace did never yet agree-
Religion always lida wilh povmy.
We tbinlr. we rob them,-but we think amiss;
We are more poor and they more rich for this.
Thou wilt revenge their quarrel,-malr.ing grace
To pay our debts, and leave our ancient pb.ce
To go to them; while that which now their nation
But lends to us shall be our desol&tion.
To these names of light in the book of good me-
morial we might add that of Fletcher of Madeley,
whose life was like theirs, and who refused a living
for two rare reasons : the income was too large, and
the duty too small ! We might add that of William
Mompesson, whose patriotic devotion, when the
plague raged in his village o( Eyam, is well known,
and to whose honour I myself, some years ago, pub-
lished a poem ; we might add those of others ; and
there are, doubtless, numbers of humble country
parsons who have toiled in their obscure allotments
with like zeal and like humility, and are now for-
gotten, except in heaven ; but my space will not
permit more details, and I pass on to notice another
class of Christian worthies-the missionaries.
What examples of glory are these to the yomag
aspit-ants after the crown of Christian beneficence!
what eTerlasting monuments of reproof to the thou-
, Coogle
JN ALL AGES. 881
sands of sluggish priests who take the name of God
in their mouths, and mock him by the worst, the
most useless, and most indolent of lives ! What an
evangelical beauty surrounds, like those of the apos-
tles of old, the names of such men as Eliot, Zeisberger,
and Brainerd, who devoted their lives and their soul's
strength to carry the peace and the felicity ofChristian
knowledge amongst the American Indians. Eliot,
strong and wise, commanding and persevering in
spirit, going forth first and alone into the depths of
the strange wilderness amongst men haughty and
terrible, fearless for himself, and full of love for them;
and, standing beneath the trees of the primeval
forests, and pouring out a fiery and lofty eloquence
that broke the savage heart into marvellous tender~
ness: careless of his own interest; giving away, with
reckless abandonment, what should support his own
life, yet cautious and sagacious for the objects of his
love ; calling them into towns ; breaking their old
wild habits, and giving them new and happy ones;
brightening their souls with knowledge ; and, in
spite of opposition and his own sorrows, spending
himself in their service to the extremity of old age.
And then Zeisberger, turning that wild insatiabl~
love of adventure which burned in his heart, to the
honour of God and the good of men, planting colony
after colony; building town after town, tor these
children of the woods ; watching over hi.~ settlements
with the delight of a creator; amid danger and blood-
shed, and midnight assaults of perfidious sa\'ages,
and the repeated devastations of his beloved planta-
tions, still persisting, undaunted, in his noble cause:
and Brainerd-the sensitive, the melancholy, the
gentle and drooping Brainerd, whom his biographers
have most strangely described as destitute ofimagina-
tion and enthusiasm !-a man all sensitiveness, all
382 PBDIBTCB.AF'J.'
fancy, all enthuaiasm, in the dawn of youth devoting
himself to the apostleship of the wilds; to the lonely,
wandering anchoretism of the interminable foretta,
where the solitary hunter, and the little wigwam of
red men were occasionally to be found I In the livea
of all these men there is a strange and heart-atirr.iDg
charm ; but we follow Brainerd with a pensive aad .
fraternal sympathy. We see him going on his loug
ride of days and weeks, beneath the ancient boughs,
or along the open glades of the silent woodlands ;
now swimming the broad river, now threading the
morass; we see him dismount and take his scanty
meal, while his horse grazes beside him : we behold
him at night seeking shelter in the hunter's cabin,.
and breathing the words of life into wondering and
unaccustomed ears : or we watch him standing while
the storm howls around, unconscious of its voice, or
only filled by its influence with a world of sad and
drooping musings ; and then retiring to his forest
hut, where he dwelt all alone, to commune with his
own heart and with God. The creature of sad
depressions or sudden exaltations; now mourning
over his own spirit, and now bursting forth, amid
collected thousands of dusky people of the woods,
into a fervour of soul and avehemence of impassioned
language that melted them into tears, and won their
souls to Christ ; so we follow him, till we behold his
cheek fade; his form become attenuate ; his failing
limbs tremble beneath him, and he dies in his early
manhood, the martyr of a delicate spirit consumed by
the abundance of its love to God and man.
If we tum our eyes hence, it is only to behold the
calm and paternal Swartz devoting himself to celi-
bacy for the service of humanity, and carrying to
India in his own spirit, a perfect embodyment of
Christianity. Nothing can be conceived more serenely
llf ALL AOBS. 388
great than the career of this dear old man. By his
loving, pure, simple spirit, he drew all hearts after
him ; by his high integrity-the integrity of him who
has learned the real grandeur of the Christian faith,
he so impressed the most lawless of princes that him
alone they would trust ; they refused audience to the
subtle race of statesmen, and called for the tme-
hearted Christian man. He checked the career of the
hostile monarch, or saved, by his single word, millions
from perishing in the famine which his march had
created ;-to him dying kings committed the protec-
tion of their children, and he gave it, and insUTed that
safety that was nowhere else to be found. The name
of Swartz has a renown of the purest and surest
immortality. The spirits of all men who behold it,
feel intimately that its splendour is derived from the
highest exercise of Christian virtue,-the most per-
~ conception and embodyment of its nature.
Similar instances present themselves in Hans Egede
and Jens Haven, and theii coadjutors. These men,
with the most heroic devotion, carried the light of
Christianity to the horrid wastes of Greenland and
Labrador,-to regions so poor, so desolate, so repel-
lant, that the keen spirit of commerce shrunk back
from them in despair. Here they dwelt for years,
ay, for whole lives ; regarded in Europe as little
differing from madmen ; finding in those to whom
they preached, but dull or derisive listeners ; suffer-
ing the extremities of physical misery, from cold and
famine, till God at length crowned their patience with
·success, and made them the fathers of civilization in
these dismal wilds. North and south, east and west,
in either India and Africa, in the isles of the Pacific,
what labours and miracles of love these missionaries
have performed, and especially that small, but for
zt>.al, patience, and perseverance, marvellous body of
Hermhuters.
"" ,,Coogle
384 · PltlBSTCR~PT
But there are two men who in Europe ha-.e ~­
bined in our times, the character of misai<>Q.aey and
parish priest, and have produced not less admirable
results-Oberlin and Nefl: These men, followiag
the descendants of the persecuted Vaudois and Wal-
denses into the wild.mountain recesses whither they
had fled from the fire and sword of church and sta&e,
the former into the Swiss Ban de la Roche, the 1ataer
in the High Alps of France, have exhibited there
such scenes of moral and social regeneration, of har-
mony and happiness, as far exceed the fables of the
golden age, and have turned the eyes of all Burope
upon them. These men have shewn what the heart
of Christianity in a human bosom is capable of doing.
They have been the wise pastors, the kind advillei'S,
the physicians, and the instructors in agriculture and
mechanic arts, of their people. They have not hesi-
tated to seize the axe and the spade, and set tbe
example of industry, and shew what wonders en-
lightened mind can achieve in the most unpropitious
situations. They have kindled an enthusiasm around
them, that has made roads open into hitherto inac-
cessible regions, bridges span hitherto lawless riven,
and fruitf\ll fields and gardens arise upon the bare
rocks, and amid mountains of eternal frost and snow.
They have found a people sunk in the lowest poverty
and ignorance, wrapped in the thickest prejudices;
and have left them active, comfortable, if not wealthy,
full of every warm affection, and glowing aspirati011
after what is noble and good.
These men, I say, are the salt of the earth; they
shew what Christianity will effect, when it is faith-
fu)ly received, and fittingly preached. It would be
delightful to dwell longer upon them. These are
the men that I would fain see scattered through
every parish of this country,-1 care not under what
distinctive name; for, while I would gladly behold
Google
IN ALL AGES, 385
every state religion destroyed, I should rejoice to see
Christianity prospering in every shape to which men
can attach themselves with heart and understanding.
But how are such men to become general in the
pulpits of what is called the church of England?
Again we must declare, that it can be by no other
meens than a total separation of that church from
that state-a total abolition of the system of patron-
age! I have already shewn to what a woful condition
these things have reduced it: I have shewn that
while these things continue, good men must necessa-
rily be excluded, and the idle, the dissipated, and
incompetent, fill it. Hereditary succession, and the
long purse, will still cast out simple piety. The
incumbents of our 10,560 parishes, chosen, in the
first place, from the luxurious and extravagant
classes of society, must next be educated at those
Universities, which Milton, in his day, and Wesley,
Whitfield, Dell, Simpson, in more recent times, and
Beverly at this moment, have declared, from intimate
knowledge, to be the veriest sinks of wickedness,
and the mere venders of monkish and inefficient
education. If any one, however, is inclined to doubt
one or all of these authorities, as being in any degree
hostile to the establishment, I must beg to refer him
to the present editor of the Quarterly Review, as
evidence entirely to the satisfaction of all parties in
this matter. No one can suspect the Church-and-
State Review of unfairness to the Universities-and
in Reginald Dalton, a story written by the editor of
this staunch Tcry journal, to delineate the career of
an Oxford scholar, they will find every point of all
the testimonies quoted, fully and forcibly confirmed.
The clergy, then, thus selected, thus educated,
come forward to officiate in a church whose canons
andliturgy are allowed by many of its own members
2 c•
386 PRIESTCRAFT
to require ample reform; and the consequence is exhi-
bited in that parliamentary return of non-residence
to which I have already alluded, in which it is shewn
that nearly two-thirds of these clergy have deserted
their parochial duties. To the curates then, we must
look; and Acaster, Nihill, Coxe, and other clerical
reformers, declare that the curates neither are nor
can be effective in their offices. Blackwood pro-
nounces them a very inefficient body. If they are
disposed to preach and act zealously, they are im-
mediately branded with the name of Methodists; and
receive an order from the bishop or incumbent to
desist. Thus a Political Religion is found, as it ever
bas been, to operate in every possible mode to the
•lestruction of real piety. Let the real lovers of the
church look to this. Let the real lovers of men and
of their country, be no longer beguiled with the
cry, that if there be no state religion, the poor and
obscure portions of the country will be neglected. I
have shewn, that it is voluntary preaching that is
now visiting those places; and every one who will
look for himself will see, that it is by the state church
that those places are actually neglected. What
matters it if there be churches in these places, if the
incumbents are flown to France, or Italy, and if the
mouths of their poor substitutes are tied up? A
great evil of this system is this :-those zealous
friends of religion, who would otherwise exert them-
selves to inquire how the distant and obscure parts
of the kingdom are Eupplied with religious instruc-
tion, are lulled into a false repose, by the very belief
that by having an establishment, all necessities are
provided for-and thus leaning on the deceitful reed
of a Political Religion, they neglect their poor breth-
ren, and pierce the hand of their own duty.
Under these circumstances, I say then, it becomes
C.ooglc
IN ALL AGES. 387
the bounden duty of all the genuine lovers of the
church to come forward, and themselves demand
from government, that the tie which binds it to the
state should be cut; that the system of patronage be
abandoned; and the privilege of choosing and sup-
porting their own ministers be put into their hands.
I would affectionately bid them look round, and
behold that it is the principle of voluntary contribu-
tion, that is the only fertile and prevailing principle.
The United States shew it: in 1830 they had I 0,000
congregations-they have now 15,000; in three
years having added 5000 to their number. The
Dissenters of our own country shew it: and they
themselves shew it, - for the private members of
the church subscribe annually 120,0001. to various
missionary and knowledge-propagating societies. I
would affectionately bid them reflect, that if their
church be as beautiful as they declare it, its light
cannot be hidden under a bushel; if it be as excel-
lent, it will stand in its own strength; and to bolster
it up with the state arm, is to imply that it has not
the inherent vigour of dissent. No man would
rejoice more than I should; to see their churches
filled to overflowing,-it is a desire which I must
possess, as a man and an Englishman,-but this can
only be, when the church and the people are FREE!
Then, I doubt not, it will have abundant ministers
who will be all that George Herbert declares a
, Country Parson should be;-and that it will go on
to purify itself from the barbarisms and pollutions of
ages, and to vindicate its right to stand eminently
amongst the churches of Christ.
388 PBIESTCRAl!'T
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE ENGLISH CHURCH--<:ONFIRIIAT~OW.
I look on both sides of this human life-
Ita brightness and its shadow.
OME of the most beautiful and impressive rites of the
church, is the confirmation of young people aa it is
seen in the country. On some bright summer morn-
ing, you see troops of village boys and girls come
marching into the town, headed by the village clelk,
or schoolmaster. First one, then another little regi-
ment of these rural embryo Christians, is seen ad-
vancing from different parts towards the principal
church. All are in their best array. Their leader,
with an air of unusual solemn dignity, marches
straight forward, looking neither to the right hand
nor to the left, but sometimes casting a grave glmce
behind at his followers. His suit of best black adoms
his sturdy person, and his lappels fiy wide in the
breeze that meets him. His charge come on in garbs
of many colours ;-the damsels in green and scarlet
petticoats ; stockings white, black, and grey ; gowns
of white, bearing testi~ony to miry roada and pro-
voking brambles ; gowns of cotton print of many a
dazzling.Howery pattem ; gowns even of ailk in these
luxurious days ; long, flying pink sashes, and pink.
and yellow, and acarlet bunches in bonneta of may
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES, 389
a curious make. The lads stride on with slouching
paces that have not been learned in drawing and
assembly-rooms, but on the bam-floor, beside the
loaded wagon, on tqe heathy sheep-walk, and in the
deep fallow field. They are gloriously robed in
corduroy breeches, blue worsted stockings, heavy-
nailed ancle-boots, green shag waistcoats, neck-hand-
kerchiefs of red, with long corners that flutter in the
wind, and coats shaped by some sempitemal tailor,
whose fashions know no change. Amid the bustling,
spruce inhabitants of the town, their walk, their dress,
their faces full of ruddy health and sheepish simpli-
city, mark them out as creatures almost of another
tribe. They bring all the spirit of the village-of
the solitary farm-()£ heaths and woods, and rarely
frequented fields, along with them. You are carried
forcibly by your imagination, at the sight of them,
into cottage life,-into the habits and concerns of the
rural population. You feel what daily anticipations
-what talk-what an early rising, and bustling pre-
paration there has been in many a lowly dwelling, in
many an out-of-the-way hamlet, for this great occa-
sion. How the old people have told over how it was
when they went to be confirmed. What a mighty
place the church is ; what crowds of grand people ;
what an awful thing the bishop in his wig and robes !
How the fonq, simple mothers have set forth their
sons and daughters ; and given them injunction on
injunction ; and followed them from their doors with
eyes filled with tears of pride, ofjoy, and of anxiety.
How the youthful band, half gay, more than half
grotesque, but totally happy, have advanced over bill
and dale. The whole joyousness of their holiday
feeliDg is presented to you, as they progressed through
bosky lanes and dells, through woods, over the open
breezy heaths and hills,-the flowers, and the dews,
390 PB.I:F.STCftAF'l'
and the green leaves breathing upon them tlleir
freshest influence ; the blue, cheering sky above them,
ud the lark sending down, from his higbeat flight,
his music of ineffable gllidness. You feel the secret
awe that struck into their bosoms as they entered the
noisy, glittering, polished, and, in their eyes, mighty
and proud town ; and the notion of the church, the
assembled crowds, the imposing ceremony, aDd the
awful bishop and all his clergy, came strongly and
distinctly before them.
Besides these, numbers of vehicles are bringing in
other rural neophytes. The carriages of the wealthy
drive rapidly and gaily on to inns and houses of
friends. Tilted wagons, gigs, ample ·cars, are all
meighted with similar burdens ; and many a strauge,
old, lumbering cart, whose body is smeared with the
ruddy marl of the fields it has done service in, whose
:wheels are heavy with the clinging mire of roads that
would make M'Adam aghast, rumbles along, dragged
by a bony and shaggy animal, that if it must be
ponoured with the name of horse, is the very Helot
of hor~es. These open conveyances exhibit groupa
of young girls, that in the lively air, and shaken to
and fro by the rocking of their vehicle, and the jost-
ling of chairs, look like beds of tulips nodding in a
strong breeze.
. As you approach the great church, ,the bustle be-
~es every moment more conspicuous. The clergy
are walking in that direction in.their black gowua.
Groups of the families of the country clergy strike
your eyes. Venerable old! figures, with their sleek
and ruddy faces-their black silk stockiaga glista-
ing beneath their gowns- their canonical bata ae&
!f~Ost becomingly above, are walking on, the very
1m~es of happinesa, with their wives hanging oa
t.heu arms, and followed by lovely, genteel girl~.
IN ALL AGES. 391
and graceful, growing lads. As the rustics' aspects
brought all the spirit of the cottage and the farm to
your imagination, they bring all that of the village
parsonage. You are transported in a moment to the
most perfect little paradises which are to be found in
the world- the country dwellings of the English
'clergy. Those sweet spots, so exactly formed for the
"otium cum dignitate." Tho~e medium abodes, be-
twixt the rudeness and vexations of poverty, and the
cumbrous state of aristocratic opulence. Those
lovely and picturesque houses, built of all orders and
all fashions, yet preserving the one definite, uniform
character of the comfortable, the pretensionless, and
the accordant with the scenery in which they are
placed ;-houses, some of old, framed timber, up
which the pear and the apricot, the pyracantha and
the vine clamber; or of old, grey, substantial stone;
or of more modern and elegant villa architecture, with
their roofs which, whether of thatch or slate, or native
grey stone, are seen thickly screened from the north,
and softened and surmounted to the delighted eye with
noble trees : with their broad, bay windows, which
bring all the sunny glow of the south, at will, into
the house; and around which the rose and jasmine
breathe their delicious odours. Those sweet abodes,
surrounded by their bowery, shady, aromatic shrub-
beries, and pleasant old-fashioned glebe-crofts,-
homes in which, under the influence of a wise, good
heart, and a good system, domestic happiness may be
enjoyed to its highest conception, and whence piety,
and cultivation, and health ·and comfort, and a thou-
sand blessings to the poor, may spread through the
surrounding neighbourhood. Such are the abodes
brought before your minds by the sight of the country
clergy; such are thousands of their dwellings, scat-
tered through this great and beneficent country,-in
P&IESTCJLAF'l
its villages and hidden nooks of scattered population
-amid its wild mountains, and along its wilder
coasts ;-endowed by the laws with earthly plenty,
and invested by the bright heaven, and its attendaDt
seasons, with the freshest sunshine, the· sweetest dews,
the most grateful solitude and balmy seclusion.
But the merry bells call us onward ; and lo ! the
mingled crowds are passing under that ancient and
time-worn porch. We enter,-and how beautiful
and impressive is the scene! The whole of that
mighty and venerable fabric is filled, from side to side,
with a mixed, yet splendid congregation,-for the
rich and the poor, the superb and the simple, there
blend into one human mass, whose varieties are but
as the contrast of colours in a fine painting,-the
spirit of the tout ensemble is the nobility of beauty.
The whole of that gorgeous assembly, on which the
eye rests in palpable perception of the wealth. the
refinement, and the elevation of the social life of our
country, is hushed in profound attention to the read-
ing of the services of the <lay by one of the clergy-
men. They are past ; the bishop, followed by his
clergy, advances to the altar. The solemn organ
bursts forth with its thunder of harmonious sound,
that rolls through the arched roof above, and covers
every living soul with its billows of tumultuo1l8
music, and with its appropriate depth of inexpres-
sible feeling, touches tb.e secret springs of wonder
and mysterious gladness in the spirit ; and amid ita
imperial tones, the tread of many youthful feet is
heard in the aisle. You turn, and behold a scene that
brings the tears into your eyes, and the throb of
sacred sympathy into your heart. Are they crea-
tures of earth or of heaven? Are they the every-
day forms which fill our houses, and pass us in the
streets, and till the solitary fields of earth, and per-
IN AI.L AGES.
form the homely duties of the labourer's cottage--
thosefair, youthful bPings, that bend down their bare
and beautiful heads beneath the bands of that solemn
and dignified old man ? Yes, through the drops that
.dim our eyes, and the surprise that dazzles them, we
discern the children of the rich and the poor kneel-
ing down together, to take upon themselves the
eternal weight of their own souls. There, side by
side, the sons and daughters of the hall, and the
sons IUld daughters of the hut of poverty, are kneel,.
ing in the presence of God and man-acknowledging
but one nature, one hope, one heaven ; and our hearts
swell with a triumphant feeling of this homage wrung
from the pride of wealth, the arrogance of birth, and
the soaring disdain of refined intellect, by the vic-
torious might of Christianity. Yet, even in the
midst of this feeling, what a contrast is there in these
children I The eons and daughters of the fortunate,
with their cultured forms and cultured features-the
girls just budding into the beauty of early woman-
hood, in their white garbs, and with their fair hair so
simply, yet so gracefully disposed,-the boys, with
their open, rosy, yet declined countenances, and their
full locks, clustering in vigorous comeliness ;-they
look, under the influence of the same feelings, like
the children of some more ethereal planet : while the
offspring of the poor, with their robust figures and
homely dressel!; with their hair, which has had no
such sedulous hands, full of love and leisure, to
mould it into shining softness-nay, that has, in many
instances, had no tending but that of the frosts and
winds, and the midsummer scorching of their daily
out-of-door lives; and with countenances in which
the predominant expressions are awe, and simple
credence; these touch us with equal sympathy for
the hardships and disadvantages of their lot.
394 PRIESTCRAFT
Successively oyer every bowed head those sacred
hands are extended, which are to communicate a
subtle but divine influence ; and how solemn is the
effect of that one grave and deliberate, yet earnest
voice, which, in the absence of the organ-tones, in
the hushed and heart-generated stillness of the place,
is alone heard pronouncing the words of awful import
to every youthful recipient of the rite. 'Tis done,-
again the tide of music rolls over us, fraught with
tenfold kindling of that spirit which has seized upon
us ; and amid its celestial exultings, that band of
youthful ones has withdrawn, and another has taken
its place. Thus it goes on, till the whole .have been
confirmed in the faith in which their sponsors vowed
to nurture them, and which they have now vowed to
maintain for ever. The bishop delivers his parting
exhortation, and solemnly charges them to return
home in a manner becoming the sacredness of the
occasion and of their present act. Filled with the
glow of purest feelings, breathing the very warmest
atmosphere of poetry and religious exaltation, we
rise up with our neighbours, and depart. We depart-
and the first breath of common air dissipates the
beautiful delusion in which we have been, for a short
space, entranced: We feel the rite to be beautiful
while we cease to think; but the moment we come to
penetrate into the mind which lies beneath, it becomes
an empty dream. We feel that did our after con-
sciousness permit us to believe that he who adminis-
tered this rite was filled with its sanctity, and relied
implicitly on its efficacy,-that the youthful tribe of
neophytes were rightly prepared by the ministry of
their respective pastors, and possessed the simple
credence of past ages to give vitality to the office-
.then, indeed, might it be in fact, what it can now
only appear for an instant. We feel, moreover,
Coogle
IN ALL AG.ItS. 395
taking yet lower ground than this, that were the
clergy a body filled with the zeal of their calling,
they possess in this ceremony a means of powerful
influence. But I have hitherto spoken only of its
poetical and picturesque effect, and that effect endures
not a step beyond the church doors. At that point
the habitual apathy of the clergy converts this rite
into one of the most awful and hideous of mockeries.
The bishop charges the recipients to return home in
soberness and decorum; but he should charge their
respective clergymen to conduct them thither. But
where are the clergy ? They are gone to dine with
the bishop, or their clerical brethren ; and what are
the morals of the youth to good dinners? They have
turned the children over to the clerks. And where
are the clerks ? They have some matters of trade to
transact ;-some spades, or cart-saddles, or groceries
to buy- and what is the health of the children's
souls to spades, and cart-saddles, and groceries?-
they have turned the lambs of the flock over to the
schoolmasters. And where are the schoolmasters?
They, like their clerical lords, are gone to dine with
their brother dominies of the town ; having reiterated
the injunction of the bishop with a mock-heroic
gravity, as highly, but not as well assumed as that of
the bishop himself, and with as little effect. While
they sit and discuss the merits of the last new treatise
of arithmetic or spelling, the work of some new Dil-
worth or Entick, their charges have squandered into
a dozen companies, and each, under the guidance of
some rustic Coryphreus, have surrounded as many
ale-house fires. They are as happy as their betters.
The loafand cheese melt like snow-balls before them;
the stout ale is handed round to blushing damsels
by as many awkward blushing swains. Hilarity
abounds-their spirits are kin~ed. The bishop, and
396 PIUESTCB.AFT
the church, and the crowd all vanish-or rather, their
weight is lifted from their souls, which rise from the
abstracted pressure with a double vivacity. Already
heated, they set forward on their homeward way. At
every besetting ale-house the revel is renewed. Over
bill and dale they stroll on, a rude, roistering, and dis-
graceful rabble. For the effects of this confirmation
let any one inquire of parish overseers, and they will
tell him, that it is one of the most fruitful sources of
licentiousness and crime. The contagion of vice
spreads under such circumstances, with the fatal ra-
pidity of lightning. Young and modest natures which
otherwise would have shrunk from it and been safe,
are surprised, as it were, into sin and shame, and
misery. Instead of a confirmation in Christianity, it
.becomes the confirmation of the Devil. And this
clergymen know ; and yet with the same apathy
whence the evil has sprung, they continue to suffer
its periodical recurrence ; and thus, for want of a little
zeal, and a little personal exercise of the good office
of a shepherd, they convert one of the fairest rites of
their church into one of the wors~ nuisances that
afllict our country.
IN ALL AGES, 397
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
Yet thus is the church, for all this noise of reformation, left
still unreformed. .llilton.
THus we have traversed the field of the world. We
have waded through an ocean of priestly enonnities.
We have seen nations sitting in the blackness of
darkness, because their priests shut up knowledge in
the dark-lanterns of their selfishness. We have seen
slavery and ignorance blasting, under the guidance of
priestly hands, millions on millions of our race, and
making melancholy the ·fairest portions of the earth.
We have listened to sighs and the dropping of tears,
to the voice of despair, and the agonies of torture and
death ; we have entered dungeons, and found there
captives wasted to skeletons with the years of their
solitary endurance ; we have listened to their faint
whispers, and have found that they uttered the
cruelties of priests. We have stumbled upon mid-
night tribunals, and seen men stretched on racks;
torn piecemeal with fiery pincers; or plunged into
endless darkness by the lancing of their eyes ; and
have asked whose actions these were-and were
answered-' the priests' ! We have visited philoso- -~
phers, and found them carefully concealing their
discoveries, which would suddenly have filled the
earth with light, and power, and love,-because they
knew the priests would turn on them in their greedy
Coogle
S98 PRIESTCB.AFT
malice, and doom them to fire or gibbet. We have
walked among women of many countries, and have
found thousands lost to shame, rolling wanton eyes,
uttering hideous words; we have turned from them
with loathing, but have heard them cry after us, as
we went-" Our hope is in the priests,-they are our
lovers, and defenders from eternal fire." We have
entered for shelter from this horror, the abodes of
domestic love, and have stood petrified to find there
all desecrated-purity destroyed-faith overthrown-
happiness annihilated ; - and it was the work of
priests! Finally, we have seen kings, otherwise
merciful, instigated by the devilish logic of priest-
craft, become the butchers of their people ; queens,
otherwise glorious, become tyrants and executioners;
and people, who would otherwise have lived in blessed
harmony, warring on each otherwith inextinguishable
malice and boundless blood-thirstiness; and behold!
it was priestcraft, that, winding amongst them like a
poisonous serpent, maddened them with its breath,
and exulted, with fiendish eyes, over their horrible
carnage. All this we have beheld, and what is the
mighty lesson it has taught ? It is this-that if the
people hope to enjoy happiness, mutual love, and
general prosperity, they must carefully snatch from
the hands of their spiritual teachers all political
power, and confine them solely to their legitimate
task of Christian instruction. Let it alwavs be
borne in mind, that, from the beginning of the "world
to this time, there never was a single conspiracy of
scHooLMASTERS against the liherties and the mind of
man: but, in every age, the priests, the SPIRITUAL
sCHOOLMASTERs, have been the most subtle, the most
persevering, the most cruel enemies and oppressors
of their species. The moral lesson is stamped on
the destinies of every nation,-the inference is
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES. 399
plain enough to the dullest capacity. Your preachers,
while they are preachers alone, are harmless as your
schoolmasters ;-they have no motive to injure your
peace ; but let them once taste power, or the fatal
charm of too much wealth, and the consequent fasci-
nations of worldly greatness, and, like the tiger when
it bas once tasted blood, they are henceforth your
cruellest devourers and oppressors.
We may be told that there is no such pernicious
tendency now in our establishment,-that it is mild,
merciful, and pious : my attention may be triumph-
antly turned to the great men it has produced ; and
the number ofhumble, sincere, and exemplary clergy-
men who adorn their office at the present day.
Much of this I am not intending to deny; but if
it be said, there is no evil tendency in the church, I
there differ. The present corruption, the present
admission, even of the clergy, of the necessity of
refonn, is sufficient refutation ; and if it does not now
imprison, burn, and destroy, we owe it to the refine-
ment of tB.e age, as the history of the past world will
amply shew. Human nature is for ever the same:
it is the nature of priestcraft to render the clergy
tyrants, and the people slaves; it always bas been
so; it always will be .so; the only preventive lies in
the general knowledge of the community. That the
church has produced great men, or rather the national
universities, who will not admit, that remembers
that Plato of preachers-Jeremy Taylor; Tillotson,
Butler, Barrow, Beveridge, Stillingfleet, Hoadley,
Hooker, and others?
I honour and love the good men who, even now,
in many.an obscure village, in the midst of a poor
and miserable population, spend their days with no
motive but the fulfilment of their duty; cheerfully
sacrificing all those refined pleasures,-that refined
Coogle
400 PRtESTORAFT
society which their character of mind, and their own
delightful tastes, would naturally prompt and entitle
them to. Who do this, badly paid, worse encouraged;
compelled by their compassion to despoil themselves
of a great part of their meagre salaries, to stop the
cries of the terrible necessities by which they are
surrounded ;-who do this, many of them at the
expense of remaining solitary, unallied individuals;
unmarried,-childless; or if husbands and fathers,
expending their wives' comforts, their children's
education, on the poverty which the wealthy incum-
bents neither look on, nor relieve. When I observe
them do this, and all the while see their parishes
drained by some fat pluralist, or sinecurist, who
scorns to take the cure of souls whom he never goes
near, except to take the living, and appoint his jour-
neyman-when I see them look on wealth, dignities,
and preferments showered on the well-hom, well-
allied, or well-impudenced, while there is a gulph
between themselves and their attainment as impass-
able as that between Dives and Lazarus,-then do I
indeed love and honour such men; and it is for such
that I would see the church reformed; and the road to
greater comfort and more extensive usefulness thrown
open. I would not, as the bees do, appoint a killing
day for the drones, but I would have no more ad-
mitted to the hive.
There are excellent men, we admit ; but are the
multitude such? We shall undoubtedly be told so.
The whole body will be represented as the most
disinterested, holy, beneficent, industrious, wonder-
working, salvation-spreading body imaginable. In
their own periodicals and pamphlets, they are, in fact,
represented so. Whether they be so or not, let one
.of the greatest intellects of the age, and one of their
own·warm friends testify-
IN ALL A&~&.
The sweet words
Of Christian promise, words that even yet
Might stem destruction,·were they wisely preacl ed,
Are muttered o'er by men, whose tones proclaim
How fiat and wearisome they feel their trade:
Rank scofFers some ; but most too indolent
To deem them falsehoods, or to know their truth.
COLERIDGE.
401
And let one great truth be marked.-The pret~alent
character of a public body stamps itself in the public
mind as faithfully as a man's face in a mirror. There
~y be exceptions to a body, and they may be con-
Siderable : but when that body becomes prot~erbial;
when it is, as a whole, the object of the jokes, the
sarcasms, and contempt& of the people, that body is
not partially, but almost wholly corrupt. Now such is
the character of the church-of-England clergy, in the
mind of the British people. We may be told it is the
vulgar opinion, and the vulgar are wrong. In judg-
ments of this kind the vulgar, as they are called, are
rlflht. They always were so : but this, too, will be
denied. A body in its corruption never did, and
never will admit it: its only feeling will be anger, not
repentance. When the Romish church was utterly
corrupted; when its priests and monks were the scan-
dal and the scorn of all men, did the chureh admit
it? did it reform them?-When Luther's artillery was
thundering against it, and shaking it to its foundations,
did it admit the justice of his attack? No! it only
turned in rage, and would have devoured him, as it
devoured all other reformers. When he had knocked
down many of its pillars, blown up many of its
~aations, laid bare to public scorn and indignation
1ts secret fooleries and horrors, it relaxed not an
atom of its pretensions ; it abated not a jot of its
pride ; it stayed not its bloody arm; shunned not to
proclaim itself still holy, invulnerable, and supreme.
2D•
"" ,,Coogle
While Dante and Bocaecio laughed at its errors, or
declaimed against its abuses, in its own territories;
while Erasmus in the Netherlands, Chaucer in Eng-
land, and Sir David Lindsay, the Chaucer of Scotland,
were pouring ineffable and everlasting ridicule on its
monks; its priests and pardoners, they were told
that theirs was but the retailing of vulgar ignorance
and envy;-but what followed? Time proclaimed it
TRUTH. The corrupted tribes were chased away by
popular fury and scorn, and have left only a name
which is an infamy and a warning.
From age to age, the great spirits of the world
have raised their voices, and cried, Liberty! but the
cry has been drowned by the clnsh of arms, or the
brutish Violence of uncultured mobs. Homer and
Demosthenes in Greece, Cicero in Rome, the poets
and martyrs of the middle ages ; our sublime Milton,
the maligned, but immovable servant and sufferer of
freedom, who laid down on her altar his pP.ace, his
comfort, and his very eyesight; our Hampdens and
Sidneys, the Hofers and Bolivars of other lands, have,
from age to age, cried, Liberty! but ignorance and
power have been commonly too much for them.
But at length, light from the eternal sanctuary of
truth has spread over every region ; into the depths
and the1lens of poverty it has penetrated; the scholar
and the state~~man are compelled to behold in the
marriage of Christianity and Knowledge, the promise
of the establishment of peace, order, and happiness,
-the reign of rational freedom. We are in the very
crisis in which old things are to be pulled down, and
new ones established on the most ancient of found.
tions,-juatice to the people. To effect safely thia
momentous change, requires all the watchfulness and•
the wisdom of an intelligent nation. The experience
of the world's history, warns us to steer the safe
"" ,,Coogle
IN ALL AGES.
middle course, between the despotism of the aristo·
cracy and the mob, between the highest and the lowest
orders of society. The intelligence, and not the
wealth or multitudes of a state, must give the law
of safety ;-and to this intelligence I would again
and finally say,- Be warned by universal history !
Snatch from your priesthood all political power ;
abandon all state religion ; place Christianity on its
own base-the universal heart of the people ; let your
preachers be, as your schoolmasters, simply teachers;
eschew reverend justices of the peace ; very reverend
politicians ; and right reverend peers and legislators ;
as you would have done the reverend knights, and
. marquises, and dukes of the past ages. They must
neither meddle with your wills, nor take the tenth of
your com ; they must neither tax you to maintain
houses in which to preach against you, and read yo11r
damnation in creeds of which no one really knows
the origin; nor persecute you, nor seize "your goods
for Easter-offerings and smoke-money. The system
by which they tax you at your entry into the world ;
tax you at' your marriage ; tax you at your death ;
suffer you not to descend into your native earth
without a fee, must be abolished. The system by
which you are made to pay for every thing, and to have
a voice in nothing-not even in the choice of a good
minister, or the dismissal of a vile and scandalous
debauchee ; by which you are made the helpless
puppet of some obtuse squire, and the prey of some
greedy and godless priest, must have an end.
On this age, the happiness of centuries-the pros-
perity of Truth depend ;-let it not disappoint the
expectations, and mar the destinies of millions !
THE END.
Coogle
oo _d, Coogle
WILLIAM HOWITT'S
VINDICATION
OF HIS
"HISTORY OF PRIESTCRAFT,"
AGAINST THE ATTACK OF
ARCHDEACON WILKINS.
FIFTH EUlTIO~.
D obyGoogle
"Artn't in pulpit now! When art a got u·p there, I nner
mind what dost say; but I won't be priest-ridden, nor taught
how to behave my.el£ by thee."-Squire Wellenl.
. " I took especial care not to give tjle slightest cause of offence
to the clergy: for I have always endeavoured to be at peac•
with that body, knowing from experience,
Quante animis ccelestibus ire.
There are no men who bear so ill to be told of their vices a&
those who thunder against vice in public; and none persecute
with greater bitterneas than those who are always declaiming
against persecution."-Lewi& Holberg.
" There are no labourers in the demolition of a bad institution
like its owu friends. They are like insects in a rotten tree:
roused by external alarm to activity, they bustle about and
scatter the trunk which holds them into dust. Such men put a
patch of new arguments into the old garment of corruption, and
the relit ia made worse."-History ofPrieslcra.ft.
"" ,,Coogle
WILLIAM HOWITT'S VINDICATION.
TO ARCHDEACON WILKINS.
s,a,
I think you will n~ be aurpriaed, if I addre88
you in a very unceremonious style. Having charged me
in the most gratuitoWI and unwarrantable manner with
DBISH, ·Dr;vu.uuxzss, and all manner of malignity, you
have voluntarily abandoned the courteaiee of society, and
have no right to expect from me more than the common
decorum due, not to yourself, but to the public before whom
we plead. It w111 not my intention to take any notice of
the abtue, which my H1story of Priestcraft was sure to
elicit; and accordingly, I should have passed by your angry
tirade 88 I have done those of Jleriodicala and newspapers,
had you not turned aside from the book to charge me with
Deism. This false accusation, and the assiduity with which
it is circulated in all possible directions, make it necessary
for the fair reputation of my children, that I should stand
forward and deny it. In few words then, I declare my
beliefitJ tht !!"eat leading doctrim• oftke Society of J'riend.;
and what is still more to the point, of the NEW TEsTAMENT.
There are some matters of practice; 88 for instance, those
of language and dreM, in which I interpret our principles
cllikrently to some; but these principles I conscientiously
hold, for they are no other than those of plainneM and
simplicity. Now, if you are hardy enough to charge the
whole Society of Friends with Dei.m,-that society which
you profess to deem nearer the standard of the primitiVII
2E•
408 VIIIDICATIOJi,
church than most; and if you are.hardy enough to persist
in your shameless aBBertion after this clear and solemn
denial, you must, in every honest mind, place yourself
beyond the pale of all honour and respect: if you even
retract it, you must still bear the brand of the calumniator
and moral assaBBin.
As the writing of a dignitary of a Church which mono-
polizes all the collegiate endowments of the nation, your
letter bas astonished me. The miserable poverty of its
style, the utter incoherence and most illogical wanderings
of what is meant for argument, make it, as a reply to my
book, perfectly contemptible. It bas not been my lot to
come in contact with a clerical composition so very wretched
for some time, excepting the Sermon of a certain Bishop,
which, in one of my "Stmday rambles," I chanced lately
to hear in Westminster Abbey. Whether there be some-
thing in the process of ascent m the Church, similar to that
of matter in the process of sublimation, in that laboratory
of which I shall speak with you presently, I know not;
but it has been frequently remarked that there is much
barrenness on the high places of the church. Such a maBB
of dryness-of threadbare and thriftless common-places,-
was this right reverend father in God's sermon, that I do
not even hesitate to give your letter the preference-for it
is rich in one particular-in abuse. In this respect, how-
ever, it has issued too late from the press to serve your pur-
pose. The malignant bitterness of heart which it betrays,
shews that the nature of the priest is not caanged. It
breathes of the same spirit of vengeance which formerl1
doomed the assailants of the church to fire and fagot ; 1t
speaks plainly enough, that, as the law will not now permit
you to murder those who dispute your ntle, you will at least
attempt to murder their reputations. The vindictive temper
and the abusive language of the established clergy, however,
are now so notorious, that, as you may see by referelllCe to
the notices at the end of this letter, before they open their
mouths, their very words can be, and are predicted. The
&tale manamt~re, as it bas recently been happily termed, of
crying "atheist! deist I leveller!" &c. &c. is become point·
less, and in one sense only useful. ·It is highly useful to
the cause of tntth and liberty, by shewing to the public
VllfDICATJO!f. 409
most demonetratively, tbe real character of the men who
officiate in the national temples as the ministers of the
meek and tender Christ. It shews beautifully the nature
of state religions, the forced hire of which is converted to
poison in the bands of those who receive it, and renders
them rabid against all who assert that liberty by whose
inspiration England has become a mighty and most goodly
realm. If I had desired one proof, as more triumphant
and convincing than another, of the justice "of my strictures
on the state of the church, and tht! temper of the clergy, it
would have been the publication of letters such as yours.
Let us examine it a little : you open it in this remarkable
style. "You, sir, are a quaker,-you, sir, are a poet-you,
sir, are a chemist." Why truly, these are facts: and who
doubts them? The two first propositions are pretty well
known to all literary readers; and as regards the third, a
little more anon. Now if I were to address you with-
" You, sir, are a prit!st of the Establishment,-you, sir, are
archdeacon of Nottingham; you, sir, are rector of St.
Mary's and of St. Paul's; you, sir, are prebendary of
Southwell, and incumbent of the livings of Lowdham,
Farnsfield,• Wing," &c. &c.; what would be thought, I ask,
of the stilted pedantry of my style1 and what possible end
could it answer, except to shew that you are a pluralist, and
therefore, notwithstanding yo1.1r zeal, one of your own
church's worst enemies-for its " worst enemies are those
of its own house." But we shall not pause at mere sin-
~larities of style. Your third very self-evident assertion
JB-" You, sir, are a chemist. But if poetry be confined to
certain limits, chemistry is not less restricted to hers ; and
these you have overstepped, by quitting your laboratory and
your shop, to cull the weeds and poison of Jeremy Ben-
tham, of the Republican and Arian Milton, of Hume,
Gibbon, the Edinburgh and Westminster Reviews, a long
file of democratic newspapers, and to complete the climax,
of Mr. BeverleyI"
• Farnsfield living is about 200l. a year: by the last census
it contains 1010 inhabitants; yet you pocket the money, and do
not furnish even a resident curate. The law provides 2001. a
year for a minister; but if a man be dying, no minister is to IJe
lr.!d within four miles. Are priests born without consciences1
410 YllmiCATJOtr,
And, indeed, now I thbak of it, what buaiDell had I to
quit my laboratory, and indulge in the pleMUrea of li&erao-
ture 1 in thoae punuita which, according to Cicero, " adole-
•centiam alunt, aenec:tutem. oblectant, aecuDClu ret amant,
adverais perfugium ac solatium prebent; deleetant dcai,
non impediunt foris ; pemoctant nobiscum, JM,:regrinantur,
rusticantur?" What busineaa had I to do thiaf It ia true,
little aa I have done, I have already had my reward, iD the
life and strength and joy of my own spirit, and in tbe
communion into which it has brought me with eome of the
fint of living minds. What blllineu had Burna to leaR hil
fields, where he
--- walked in glory and in joy,
Following his plough along the mountain side?
Why left he his fathoming of ale firkins, to write the merry
Tam O'Shanter; the beautiful picture of humble and pious
Scottish life, the Cottar's Saturday Night; and songs and
small poems, to whose quick spirit the heart of the Scottish
exile, "encamped by Indian riven wild,'' throbs tumult-
uously,
And glows and gladdens at the cbarma
Of Scotia's woods and waterfallJ f
And what buaineaa had Hogg to mBPCh out otEttrick foNit.
and go waving his grey tartan up the atreetl of EdinbUJRh,
strong in his marvellous resolve, to enrol hia name amid the
poets of the landf Oh, James! Jame.l "with whom bMt
thou left thoae few theep in the wildemeur 1 know thy
pride, lllld the naughtineaa of thy heartI" What buain-
hadst thon at the Queen's Wakef At the eourt of Q._
Hynde?-reclining in the glen, liatenin~ to the unearthly
words of the pure Kilmeny; dancing with the fairiea; teB-
ing of the Browni~ ofBodabeck; or tingingonettrongad
peerless song of God's Omnipresence! What bnineu had
Allan Ramsay to go before thee, chanting of the Gentle
Shepherdf-or a far greater Allan to eome after thee, from
tlie ileptba of Nithaaale, and casting down bfa mallet ad
chisel amongst his native rocks, dare to enter London aucl
seat 'J;Wnaelf amid all the fair bandiworb of Chaatry!
Coogle
411
What bad he to do with collecting the Songs of Scotland;
or making mighty ballads of his own?
A wet sheet and a flowing sea-
What were they to him?-he wu overstepfing his natural
functions. 0, honest Allan Cunningham . what business
hadat thou with these things f And what business had
William &tcoe to lean his mother's tap; to give over
carrying out her pots of beer, and to go and write the lives
of Pope• 1111.d Italian princes; to ennoble his own mind; to
cast a splendour over his native town, and to leave a he-
ritage to his children richer than a patent of nobility? And
what business had those shoemakers, Bloomfield the
Farmer's Bo,., and Gifford, the terror of dunces and the
pride of Tories, to quit their stalla and dare to become
famous f And those drapers, or drapers' sone, Pope and
Southey, and honest Izaak Walton, what 'Wrong-headedness
was theirs ! What right had Izaak to haunt the Dove, and
Shawford Brook, and the Thames, with hill rod and line;
and go, in summer meadows, making sermons to himself of
auch beautiful and serene piety, as seldom iiii!Uea from tlre
lithographic press for the use of state prieata? He baa
written the lives of certain Church worth1es, too; and yet
it is very questionable, that presumption of his. Those
apothecaries, Crabbe and Keats, why did they not stick to
their vocation, and avoid spoiling us with so much good
poetry f What pity is it that our prudent Archdeacon was
not present when Ben Jonaon threw down his hod of
mortar, and Shabpeare left o:IF poaching, to wam them
against the sin of writing dramasf Could he have prevailed
on John Wilson and .John Gibson Lockhart, and Walter
Scott, and Sharon Tumer, to abide by their parchments
and pleas, what reading of multitudinous volumes might
we have been sparedI WaahinFn left his farming, to
liberate his country, and Franklin his types, to frame a
oonst.itution for her, and Dr. Wilkin• waa not at hand to
cry, "Oventep not the proper limits of your professions!"
From the ranks of trade, from the very pe&1181ltry of tbe
country, ascend to eminence clergymen, lawyers, ud mer-
chants; three-fourtha of our nobility haTe sprung from
~e eame source ; and yet the enterpriae of these men is
very questionable, for numben of them, with the happy
Coogle
412 VINBIC.lTIOK.
daring of Sir Richard Arkwright, reached diitinet.ion bY
overstepping the proper limits of their original profeuiona; .
Nothing, therefore, can be more questionable, for Arch-
deacon Wilkins questions it!
Yes, sir, without further iroriy,/ou have pronounced an
atrocious libel on your country an your countrymen. You
have attempted to sneer away from the gates of science
and literature all those who are contaminated with trade.
You have outraged what is the peculiar glory of Englucl
-for rou may go over all ages and all natione--and in
antiqutty pitch on an Esop or a Terence; in modem times
on a Rousseau or a Burger, but it is alone in England that
so numerous a host of the sons of genius rise up from the
plough and the spinning-jenny, and take t!!eir stations,
with bold and unblushing brows, amongst the great and
shining lights of the land. Nothing is so expresaive of the
contracting and blinding influence ofpriestcraft, as the fact
. that you do not look upon the venerable Milton as the
sublime poet, as a man whose noble'l!entiments will influence
the spirits of countless generations-as all other men look
upon him-the glory of the nation ; nor as that grand old
Tory and stanch lover of the church, Wordsworth, looks
on him:-
We must be free or die, who speak the tongue
That Shakspeare spake; the faith and morals hold
Which Milton held. In every thing we are sprung
Of Earth's best blood,-have titles manifold.
you only, through the mist of sectarian rrejudice, - in
hint " the republican and Arian Milton" . ! ! Well! wel-
come be ye to a faith which shuts the heart to sympathy
with all that is noble, and embitters it with hatred of all
that is indeiendent.
I think have said enough to obtain even your future
permission for men iu trade to write, although I am told,
such is the deapicable spirit of caste in the ministers of the
poor Jeaua of Nazareth, who had not where to lay his head,
that they do not permit even those branches of the clerical
families,.. which form their very select circle in little
cataedraJ. towns, who become attached to trade, to enter
' Dog. ThU - - -
. picture of c:lerieel
Coogle
VII'IiliCA'rro!f. 413
al'Wigance, I receive too from a pious young clergyman.
But this is a digression ; let us examine the heads of your
lett~ seriatim.
And first for a specimen of your logic.-To my words,
" If a nation is to patronize and support one religion in
preference to another, it ought surely to be the religion of
the t~ation :" you add, "If this be just, the good work of
the Church of England, and of those sects which send out
missionaries to India and elsewhere, ought to cease. The
idols of Juggernaut, and the prophet of Mecca, should no
longer be denounced. The Hindoos and Arabs, Turks,
Moors, and Infidels and Heretics, should be left helpless in
their own countries, to wander in their own darkness, &c.
&c." Now alf this grand assemblage of Turks, Hindoos,
Moors, Infidels, and what not, which you have convened
in the u'{lper rooms of your imagination, is very much in
the predrcament of those unfortunate pec>ple collected to
an auction some time ago at Edinburgh, who fell through
the floor : by knocking out the little peg, the word if, all
your misceJlaneous convocation of strange t>eople tumbles
Inevitably through the floor. Your reasomng is founded
on that very unsubstantial word if. I say IP a nation
must patronize and support a religion, it ought to be the
religion of the nation : but I contend that it ought not to
mpport one at all in preference to another; and that, II!!
you too well know, is the great object and drift of my whole
book. If, indeed, a religion must be supported by the state,
it ought to be assuredly the religion of the majority. No-
thing can be so contrary to the plainest justice, so utterly
abhorrent to the whole of our human rights, to the whole
of our nature, as the forcing a man's conscience contrary
to, or without its conviction. Be the multitude of a nation
Turks or Infidels, or whatever holders of strange creeds,
what right has any government to force them to adopt and
maintain a religion that they disapprove? Reason with
them -preach to them the excellency of Christianity ali
much as you please, but by no means force them to profess
or aupport what they do not believe.
Is it then " the good work of the church and dissenting
miuionaries" to force the consciences of tOO.e to whom
they go l l bad always an ide. that they went to preach
VJHDJOA'IJOlf.
and penullde; but if their olJject be to seek estabtw.m~
if they hate the cevert design of preniling uponthe govern-
menta of the countries they visit to set Christianity o.-.
the head of their people, without their concurrence, ortheir
knowledge and admiaaion of its principles, then it is high
time that our government recalled those violatora oC eon-
science and of the rights of man. But it is the peculiu
haait of the Established clergy continually to confouud
Christianity with their own church. They do not -
capable of comprehending, that Christianity may be su&recl
to stand on itll own baaie, to grow with ita own str~
and recommend itself by reuon of its own excelleace to
the hearts and minds of a people, till it becomea eveotually
established in a nation, independent of power or party.
And in this spirit you assert that "no nation or country baa
ever ftourished that has not supported an Established reli-
gion." Alas I that it should be so I I have shewn by wha&
means all nations h•ve come to be saddled with theae state
religions by the despotism of priests and kings. If "We
cannot shew that nations have flourished without trUde
religions, it is for the simple reason that tyranny haa neYS"
euifered them to be without. We can however shew that
State religions do not necessarily preserve realme, or make
tllem flourish-they have not that most conserntive eftea
-aa may be seen moat lamentably in Spain and Ir~
You do however recollectr-Ameriefl-what state prieet em
ever forget it ? You admit it to be an exception-but _.
sole yourself that it ia but in ita infancy-Gn ifi.IIIM!I qj 1tt1o
laMdred year• I truly a very patriarchal infancy ! Ametic:a
muat alway• be a sore spectacle to the eyes of an E.ab-
lished priest, and whatever you may pretend, will Dot be
lost on the Britiah people. You are rejoiced to aee faaa.
ticiam there. Look at home, it is equally abundaot hen:,
epite of our eetabliehment: and however you may decry
the religiCKll atate of America, the united teetimony of the
moet impartial tranllera is, and I place my own bl"'tMr
amoogat them, that sober, rational, and devout ~
feeling and conduct abouad aa much there aa in aay utica
in the world.
I am 8CC11IeCl by you ol referring to the Britiah Mquiae
for a MateiiMat of the biabOJII' ineomn, aad yet ofcwwo
VJlOIICA'flOW. 415
ratiag dJoae incomes 15,0001. by the ahewiug of that magao
EiRe. The calculation ia your own, not mine-l merely
traDscribed the table cl their separate income•, and if it
conflict with other statements of the magazine, I am not
r.aponsible for that-that truly would be a .woful doom,
for such a brood of unftedged paraon• as scribble in that
pftlfound publication are not ellewhere to be met with.
YCJU aceuae me of overstating al10 the whole property and
income of the church. The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
yon ~ay, haa shewn jta real amount by "fuller and more
correet eltimates." It was but last week that hia Lordship
COilfeaed that his eccleaiutical estimates had misled him I
I felt convinced that thia would be the case; fint, trom the
wondrously small sum made of it by clerical calculatiou,
as opposed to all other calculations; and secondly by the
temptation of the clergy to do so ; and by their known
carelesmesa of truth. Start not at the imputation-! shall
pretently ahew you are not an exception-and I ll'balllhew
moreover other curiOWI matter. I doubt the aceuracy of
the clerical returns on this ground: - when the govern-
ment circular was tent to the clergy, demanding an exact
and faithful return of their incomes, then did these eonaeien-
tiOUI men set eagerly to work to concert 1wu1 this retum waa
to be made, and kOUJ it was to be made to appear as amallaa
~ble. These matters will be found particularly dillCUISed
1n the numbera for June, July, and September, 1832.-
0ne man seem• wonderfully aggrieved that he ia not per•
mltted by the queries of the Church Revenue Commiuion to
deduct from his income, before given in, the ~ of the
curate; the poor'&-ratea that hia tithe-holders pay for him;
and a rent tor hia houae, but thinks they may venture to
deduct the charge of collecting hia income ; and otbera
~k they may deduct their charities; and others the
lllterelt of the pwchtuiMIItmey of Uu ~ of t/wir
'!ftr9•! By these various means some of them ut\lally
throw their livings Jnto debt to. themselves; as one, for iD-
stanoe, in the June number, 1761. Let it be remembered
~ these generous fellows, who thus magnanimoudy
ID&intain their own livings-yet shew, that those liviDea are
w'worth leaa in the groas than five or six hundred a year.
hat wu to be expeet.ed &om "fuller IIDd more correct
"" ,,Coogle
'
416 .vttcDICAI'IO!f,
eatimatee " made by such men, under aueh impri!uions r
You conclude this paragraph by asking, " Are these proofl
of the sincerity of your motives to spread truth and justicer
0 yt!lll indeed they are !
You now touch on the subject of consecration; and make
this atatement: "Now, air, this superstitious belief, and all
ihia priestcraft, by which the rich and poor, for eo many
ages to the present hour, have been led to prefet" a con-
secrated spot of ground for the interment of the dead, ariles
from this; that it is congenial with the feelings of both tbe
poor and rich, that the place of sepulture should, in tbe
first instance, be made sacred, by prayer offered up to &ld
on their behalf by their chief priest, and by a perpetual
ezcltuitle dedication of the soil for such holy purpoee."
I must take the liberty to deny entirely that the real cause
of consecration ariaes from itsbeing congenial to the feelings
of both rich and poor, that the place .should be first made
IIIICl'ed by the prayers of the priest. It is, unquestionably;
congenial to the feelings of all men to desire that their
remains, and those of their relatives and friends, should
repose in ground guarded from violation and change ; bat
it does not follow that prelatical consecration is the only
or best means of arriving at this end. If we are to argue
on what is congenial to the feelings of men, we must argue
on the ground of our common nature ; and if eo, what is
congenial to the natural feelings of a Churchman ia equally
congenial to the natural feelings of a Quaker. Now we have
no such ceremonies. We desire that our dead should be
buried with the solemn decorum that is appropriate to the
occasion; we desire that ourburial grounds shall be seeured
from intrusion and desecration ; but we find in the feelingt
of our common nature; sufficient sanctity for this purpoee.
And where, let me ask, are there burial-grounds which poe-
se88 more perfect security1 Some of them now lie in soli-
tary, and, of themselves, forsaken and unprotected pJacea
in the country, from Frienda having, through their com-
mercial habits, and in order to escape the plague of
tithes, now generally migrated into towns; yet, they are
aa UD.IIIolested, and as inviolably preserved from itmJlt or
invuion by the solemn sanctity ofdeath, as if all the biabope
of all the chiU'Cbes in Europe had muttered over them. lf'
VI!IDICATtft, 417
then, as it clearly appean, prelalical conaecration ia not
l'eq1ured by our common nature, thil feeling must be an
engrafud feeling, and have become c011gmial to Episcopa-
lians by habit and priestly inculcation, not by nature.
You proceed,-" In the next place, they know that the
wisdom of the .legislature has provided, that such soil, so set
apart and so consecrated, shall not be desecrated; shall not
be again appropriated to an;y worldly purpose. And the
same of their churches; for 1t is not an uncommon event,
from various causes, that a meeting is literally converted
from 'a bouse of prayer into a house of merchandize;' the
State has carefully guarded against any such occurrence in
the temples and cemeteries of the Establishment." You
add,-" By this operation, a consecrated spot of ground is
changed from mutable to immutable property."
I pass your assertion, that you consecrate places of wor-
ship and of burial in obedience to the directions of both.
the Old and the New Testament, because in the Old Tes-
tament there is little to the purpose, except the dedication
of the Temple, and in the New absolutely nothing; and
proceed to declare, that if you can shew thatany such effect,
as stated above, is produced by your conser.ration; if you
can shew that by it " a spot of ground is changed from
mutable to immutable property," so that" it cannot again
be appropriated to any worldly purpose;" then we will
admit that it has some use. But if I shall shew that it
does produce no such effect; that it does not protect fabric
or soil from the invasion of the strong and the hold; that
it does not prevent them becoming again appropriated to
any worldly purpose, then all your arguments for its use
fall to the ground. It will be then she\m to be a work of
supererogation ; and that you have set aside the eternal
influences of our nature, to substitute unavailing rites,-
rites, moreover, inspiring false views and feelings in the
people, and burdensome to their pockets.
Has, then, consecration effected these purpoees? Did it
at the Reformation protect churches, abbeys, and cemeteries
from the daring and rapacious hand of Henry VIII.?
Where are the splendid piles of Malmsbury, Glastonbury,
Battle, Waltham, Malvern, Lantony, H.ivaux, Fountai11s,
Kirkstall, &c.? Where are numeroll8 churche~? Where.
418 "fllfDIOA'fJOK.
are the eemeteriel of 100ree of con•eutuel 'baildioga-!--0!
you will eay, thete were broken up by a violent convul-
lion, and by lawle• men. Well, then, where is the eftieeey
of your conaecration f It is against the shock of lltlcb eon-
wlsiona, against the rapacity of the avaricious, and the
hauda of bold, bad men, that you seek lleCUrity. There
wants none againllt peaceful times, peaceful and temperate
people. I repeat it, the feelings of our common hmna-
nity are ample guarantee in ordinary eases. But theee
Jtoble placee, conaecnLted by prelatical hands, are fallen,-
th- eemeteries are deaecrated; are become the property
of laymen; and are appropriated to any and many WO!I'ldly
~II. availed your consecration against the Pro&ec:tor
Somerset, in the reign of that pious youth, Edward VI.!
What availed it against hi& pulling down, in Loudon, three
epieeopal houaes, two churches, a chapel, a cloister, and a
obamel-house, to clear the site for his palace, and supply
materials for itl How availed it, when he carried away
lhe bones by cart-loads, and threw them into a pis in
moomsbury? What availed it against John Knox, in
Scotland, when, animated by his fiery eloquence, the
peollle rose, and tore to fragments the magnificent cathedral
of St. Andrews, and which now stands a melancholy l1lia
on a melancholy cout? What availed it against the
troopers of Cromwell, who turned your churches into
stables, 111 completely as you represent meeting-houaet~ to
be turned into houses of merchandise? Yet all these people
were men ; they had the common feelings of men ; they
had a vehement, though erratic sense of piety,-but they
had outgrown the engrafted feelings supplied by priest-
craft; and, in their wrath against that power, they eet all
artificial restraints at nought: ere the natural f~ of
reverence for such objects had time to revive in iLeir
bosoms, they committed many abominable outrages.
If your consecration be an influential safeguard ~t
churches and cemeteries being again converted to onliDary
purposes, what is the reason that Flawford church has di.-
ap~ared, and ita burial-ground become a common field l
It 11 true the grave-atones remain, but it ia ueed for all the
worldly purposes of a field, and for nothing more. Wha&
.\'JltDJ(l.t.'.RO!f. 419
has. become ol &admore church too, once coaaecrated, but
now gone1 What of the cemeteries of the abbeys and
friaries of this town and neighbourhood1 They are all
now, in spite of consecration, deaecrated, and de•oted to
the common uaes of life.
If burial-grounds, under the mysterious inftuence ofcon-
aecration, can, as you assert, be thenceforth only appro·
priated to the usea for which they are conaecrated, then,
abnndaDce of churchyards are consecrated to many a good
game of marbles and hop-ecotch; and were formerly to
that of football, after Sunday service; and St. Nicholas's
churchyard in this town, ia consecrated to a certain. odd
little Shetland pony, which regularly pastures there; to
eay nothing of your own churchyard, from which a piece is
cut off, fenced out with wall and palisades, and converted
to an ordinary walk, often used for very ordinary purposes.
You say that no charge is made by the clergy for conse-
cration. Suppose we admit it. Suppose neither bishop
nor incumbent is benefited by it; •-suppoae it merely an
expense of the form of law; it still is an expense to- the
people, incurred for what I have now shewn to be super-
fluous and unavailing; and it is equally clear that it is
incurred by the Bishop's Court, an integral and inseparable
part of that great fnestly system which is fixed on the
nation ; and it is o little consequence by whose bands the
people's money is taken, if it be taken for the system. It
matters little to the man who is taxed, whether the king or
or the king'a servant ia fed by his contribution-it is gone.
When you are separated from the state, as you will one
day be, then you will have a great right to impose what-
ever doctrine, ceremony, or tax upon your voluntary adhe-
rents that they will permit, and no one else will have a
right to complain: but so long as you are a part of the
state, we shall have a right to criticise your customs, and
denounce expenses incurred for that which is worth nothing.
There is, then, sufficient sanctity about the place of
lluman sepulture in itself. When we enter one, bowever
lonely and exposed, what are the feelings and the senti-
• Yet bishops demand from 1001, to 300l. for consecra\ing a
clKin:h-wlao gets thia l
420
menta that impl'ell us r Do we thiok, at sucla a time, 10£
the forms and the words by which they were conaecnted?
No l there apring up feelings of so much higher a aablre,
that the memory of them would be cast away aa an u•-
worthy intrusion. In the wilds of Scotland I have audfialy
come upon an ancient cemetery. Not a house Ol" human
being has been within view. The tu~ .the enclu.iag
mound, the drooping stones, have all worn the grey BBpect
of antiquity; yet, hallowed by the solemnity of death, it
has lain in the wide, brown wilderness in moat inviolate
aecurity. When I sate down in this place, what were my
thoughts? They were of the awful mystery of our nature
-of the commo~ penalty of death-of the evedas&ing
regions of unknown being which lie beyond. They Weft
of the life, the thoughts, the passions which once agitated
this now silent mass ; and of the inseparable idea that my
own lot would be one day as theirs. They were, that many
of these very mouldering bodies had once etood up and done
battle ageinst the bloody despotism of your church, and
invested themselves with the glories of the patriot and the
martyr !-Let us change the suhject;-it is not I who have
desecrated it, but you, who have buried the conaecrating
influences of God's awful law of mortality and man'e lot,
under the cold forms of a priestly system. .
You challenge me to point out a single case in which "a
clergyman ever refused to perform the burial service over
any human creature whatever, that died by the visitation oi
God." What may be your object in sending forth &hia
singular challenge, I pretend not to comprehend, although
you pay me the highest of mortal compliments- 'ha&
which the Jews paid to Christ-of "having a devil;" but
whatever be yo11r motive, I accept your challenge with all
my heart: and remember, if it tum out to your discredit,
it is you who have begged the infliction. I tell you then
that I have heard of such cases. I have heard. often
enough, of clerg:Ymen refusing to inter a corpse till the fee
was in hand ; I have heard too of those who, when tbe fee
was in hand, have cut the service very.short for the poor;
but there ia one case, which, as it concerns both your
church and mille, and ia beaide~ attended wit.h very melan-
choly circumstances, you are most cordially welOOIIle to.
, . ,,Coogle
421
Amongst the persona lost in the wreck ot tlle Rothsay
Cll8\le stHm packet, ofF Beaumaris, in Au~lt, 1831, was
Alexander Wheeler, a member of the Society ot Friends.
His ltody, when found, was in a state that rendered it
peculiarly desirable that it should be ipterred with as little
delay as possible; but the clergyman of Dygyfylchi abso-
lutely refused to bury him, because he had not been bap-
.Qsei! Considering the circumstances of the case, the
sudden and awful lou of lives that had just taken place,
-the indescribable distress into which it had plunged
numbers of families, the already sufficiently lacerated feel-
ings of the relatives of the deceased-one would have
thought that a man could not have been found so sensitive
to the dead forms of his priesthood, so callous to all the
nobler sentiments of humanity, as to refuse to commit the
corpse to the ground-but so it was,. and that too in spite
of the natural indignation excited in the popular mind.
The friends of the deceased, in disgust, set out for Liverpool
with his body, and my own brother-in-law helped to bear
him to his grave. I hope that fact is quite to your taste.
Now for Simony.-You doubt my clearly understanding
the common acceptation of the word simony. If it be not
simony tOr a priest to purchase the presentation to a living,
instead of receiving it as a free and sacred gift-then I do
nut understand it. If it be not simony for a patron to sell
the presentation of such living to a clergyman, instead of
giving it freely, then I do not understand it. You, how-
ever, declare, that "what I have affirmed of this crime, as
commonly committed by the clergy, is most calumnious and
untrue: and as it affects laymen, is hardly less so." I
must certainly then misconceive what simony is, for almost
every day do I aee it in the newsJiapers (I am at my news-
pper authorities again, you see); almost every day do I
see clergymen advertising for the purcha~e of the next pre-
.rentation to a living. I see four thousand and six thousand
pounds offered : I see the income of the living to be pre-
sented, stipulated for four, five, six, or more hundreds a
year. Are not these ofFers to commit simony? But vou
again declare-" simony can only be perpetrated throitgh
the illl/trumentality of a clergyman; and tlti.r instrumentality
u 80 erosely fenceJ against by the oath 80lemnly imposctl.
2F•
"" ,,Coogle
.,.._, ~ ,..,- t..hi« dwi riwa to ,_,,_,
tJIId ,.. OIN __, - . ·or. _,..e.-.-- tJtil «f4 ~
~..,, at tM - tiMe, tie .-IT ·.Da'IIAMUII:<_,
AOO&.t.\'&'IM> irniiJJlY, fi:lr tlae oMh itlelf jl CJDe,.G .alf .....
.. aa.tute book, the etrongest, ADd ... ··~ , .....,.
can evade." ; nc ·•. c•. Jv~'
By what. m-• ywr brethren J11aD8fJe to ·aoen~
dleir ~ienea to thiJ ~ cmd .,,.,..#J,~
yoo, it l88b1l, do not know, and how ahould .1~~
they do, it will quickly be shewn; and 1 .......,. .
you are 10 much ediiCIIted in the pnct.iae of ••.u:iDg,•
:JOIIl Univenitiel,. aud &* your takiag .O!Idea,ia.trJJ!Ii
leam to think with Hudibraa, "Oa&ha are "-·lhllllii, ,_,.
worda but wind." , '..; urn
Oh ! hlaaJ?hemoua! the Book of life is made·..: ..:
1
: :~
A supentitioua instrument, on which ' , · · ·
We gabble o'er the oaths we mean to break:'' ', <~~
All, an muat awear; the briber and the br~, .' ''..
Merchant and lawyer, aenator and priest, .': ·· ~
The rich, the poor, the old man and the young~ ".';·:.~
All, all make up one scheme of perjury, :•. .;.:J1
j,
That faith doth reel; the very name oCt:;~ ·. :.::."' " "q
Soundali!le a juggler's charm; and, bold •iflilii7~'~11
Forth from ¥8 dark and lonely hi~-p~. "" 1 J-uru
Portentoua 111ghtI the owlet, Athewn, ..d
Sailing on obscene wings athwart the noon,. · .·, :..~
Drope his blue-~ed lids, and holds them cl~,
And hooting at the glorioua aun in heaven,
Cries out, "Where is it?" · ·>~
C r_;Jn .. sq
o...,._e'"''m
Do you atill doubt l Let ua put the matter to 'pJ4 ~
Let Ul take UJl the St. James's Chronicle,-:-it$1 a~~
good repute wtth both you and me. Here it ~ We~
take up the first half-dozen papers that come fo bancl. ,'·
!#
Ul aee;-they are papers or clliferent datee, t'rozn the s
·..
niug of thia preaent year, up to April Aht ~haf js:
observe? One, two, three, four, five! adve~JD4!Dtl ,, qt
the purchase of presentations by clergrmen in ~· lilX
papers! Ia it pOBSible! Notwithstanding your '10Jemn
Coogle
NM11n1r of the WOl!d ud hoDGilr at a prilli, dlete are 110
I.ibaii five of these same virwDua clergymesa atteaptiug
die- sin at Simon Magus in these lix papenI By what
llllltt plaDet.-stricken fatality have you oft'ered younelf u
fl•'cbatllplon of a church of whose daily ~eedinga aad
eondition you are either most amuingly Ignorant, or for
w'ldch yon have voluntarily exhibited yOUI'Ielfin the odious
~r of a most unexampled fabulatorr I tpare yon
lhe plain epithet. Instead, therefore, of asking me, with a
~ge absurdity of triumph, " what now becomes of aU
)lbur alaDden and groundless charges on innocent clergy•
llil!llr·-· muat ~m IL!ld ask you-is it ~ot enonll'h ~t
~-r •
tntbren daily disgrace the prolemon or Cbnst'e
ministers by the most ahamele• bartering in holy things,
but that you ebould stand forth their moet limple, or moat
truthlea champion? Is it nut enough that you have con-
victed them of the moet drea4ful tllld aggraflated perjury,
but you muat quote Paley to pass sentence on them? I
will give his words, and two of the advertisements as they
ataud together in St. James's Chronicle of April6-9; and
then, af\:er again asking you if I did not justly charge 1our
church with being in an awful state, where this pnvate
~tronage exists to the extent of 8,000 out of 10,000 llvinga;
if I were not amply justified in saying that these livings
must necessarily go, not to the poor pious man, but to the
highest bidder?-1 shall leave you to the just opinion of
evt!ry honest mind. ·
These are Paley's words as given by you:-" The sale of
advoweons is inseparable from the allowance or private
patronage ; as patronage would otherwise devolve to the
most indigent, and for that reason the most improper
hands it could be placed in. Nor did the law ever Intend
to prohibit the passin~ of advowson• from one patron to
·another; but to restram tile patron, who poueue1 the riglU
.U/ pruenting at the rJacancg, from being influenced, itt tile
choice of hil pre1entte, by a bribe or benefit to hirruelf. It
.fa the same distinction with that which obtains In a free-
bolder's vote for hia Representative in Parliament. The
!~ht ofrJoting, that is, thefreehold to wAich the right pertam1,
.may lie bought and sold as freely aa any other property;
. 2F2
"" ,,Coogle
424: VINDICATION,
lnd the e.rerciae of that right-tlu wte itself-may not ~
purchcued, cw influenced by money.'' · ·· .:;:
CaullCK PREFERMENT.- WANTED to PURCKASB, . tJie
ADVOWSON or NEXT PRESENTATION, with pros}M)Ct of !laDy
possession, to a Living of from 200L to 500/.. per ~nwa,
m an agreeable neighbourhood, within a day's joumeJl pf
London. Population not exceeding 1000. A guod gQWJIII
house, or one which might easily be rendered BQ, is ~
penaable. The county of Kent or Surrey would be .~
ferred. . , .. .
Address, stating particulars, to the Rev. S. T., C6!ll. Q!
Mesars. Smith, Elder, and Co., booksellers, Cornhill, ~on.
To THE CHuRcH.-From 40001. to 60001. ready tO 'tie
advanced in the purchase of a next PRESENTATION, Of;neXt
PRESENTATION and ADVOWSON of adequate Value, with die
prospect of immediate possession. Situation 1mist ··~
upland, and from 30 to 100 miles from London, wttb a
good residence. · · ·
All letters, containing every information, to·be ad~
post paid, to Messrs. Burfoot, Solicitors, Temple, London.'
I have thus at once proved the daily, bar.ef~ed simO-
uiacal corruption of your clerical brethren, and.).'OUl' QWU
strange contempt of truth.• For myself I have.theref9£e
done with you ; but there are two remarks as 1t reg.
others, to which I shall give a momentary attention-,-one
on Dissenters generally-one on mr own Society. .
You have evidently kept an amuous eye on the proceed-
ings of dissenters. You ask me, do their ministers n9t
receive hire? They do. Who doubts it? But ther~ is this
difference between their payment and yours-theil:s is tbe
voluntary offering of their hearers-yours is wrung frOJD
the funds of a reluctant and dissenting nation. But JPU
l1ave found a separation-a building of a new chapel--,)lll
engagement of an additio.nal minister, in this town. '}Vf,ll,
theu, there i11 more room, and there are more ministe~ ~
• "These abuses have oft been complained of, but th~~~ ~·e
been still new contrivances found out to elude all laws a.gaiust
simony."-Bishop Bume(6 History '!/ Rtforwllion, vql,·..u.
part 1, p. 358. · ''··
.. :.
Coogle
_
VINDICATION. 42.~
benefit the people. To point out to me a solitary case of
division am1dst a kingdom full of flourishing disst·nters,
!!hews, not their' defects, but your anxietl. Could you
even shew that dissent and freedom of cho1ce in rninistel"l!
.were generally attended with differences of opinion, I would
atill say, give me that freedom of opinion, with all its evils,
ftther than no freedom, no choice at all-rather than my
eolrstience-the consciences of a whole congregation-
abauld be the slaves of one layman. But the steady progress
of dissent is the most triumphant answer to your questions;
·and never did you make a more unhappy remark than that
in wbich you specify the alternation of Methodist ministers
.f¥ a p~trticular evil. John Wesley understood the human
.h.eart, and knew how to provide for it; and the most con-
.,vincing test of his sagacity is, that after a career of only
.Dinety-five years, his system counts upwards of a million of
adherents in different parts of the world.
Amid the multiplicity of criticisms which my little
jVo4lme has already elicited, I have often been asked, why
1 did not attack priestcraft also among the dissenters. ThL•
is my answer. Whether it exists amongst them or not, I
neither now attempt to deny or admit. Jf it doe1 exist,
-while they plague only themselves with it-it concerns
,very little any but themselves. Let them attempt to saddle
the nation witlt it, and the;t will ,then become legitimate
objects of censure, and I Will be one of the first to assail
them.
' A. parting word on my own Society.-1 pass your attempt
''to excite my family agamst me, for it baa made them happy
·"
'"th a hearty laughter. But you fain would shake mt in
··the good opinion of the Society of Friends. Now, is it
because I have exposed priestcraft that you would have
Friends ashamed of me? Alas, master ! then must they
·· be most assuredly ashamed of themselves. If there be one
BOciety the steady enemies of priestcraft, it iR theirs. They
have a set of old worthies, whose writings they silently, but
fervently admire--George Fox, who commenced his career
by reproving one of your predecessors in your own church
·of St. Mary'a, and a whole boat of coadjutors, who said
many hard things of priests, and consequently auftered
many hard thing• from them. They have "The Memoirs
Coogle
426 VINDICATfO!f.
of John Roberts," one of the most inesistibly ama~.
and cruelly witty books in the world. John always gets
the parson down and never lets him get up again. Tills
ia justly a favourite work:.-I propose one day to milk1dt
better known. They delight m reading the .., Journal M
Job Scott," in which oecurs this remarkable passage:.;..
" The clergy form a dark ecliple betwem God and mtif•
·1oula: and wben I am dead, let no one attempt to softiin
this expreaaion, for it is the truth." They have ahvlta
repudiated your hire~ altars, even in marriage ari(l )n
death. It was to William Penn, the Quaker, that'hia
father, Admiral Penn, said on his death-bed, " Son Wfl...
liam, if lou and your friends are faithful, you will male
an end o priests and priestcraft to the end of the world!"
And will they be faithful? Yes! You may imagine them,
if you look on them, meek and gentle-why, 10 you would
imagine me ;-but trust not to their outward man I They
are by nature, by education, by faith, by the memory of'
cruel ills, and, what is better, by the love of the law of
Christ, who proclaimed the free and immutable gospel-the
sternest, steadiest, most immitigable adversaries of a state
reliP.on. They are this, or they are apostates to the faith
which their ancestors purchased in prisons and with blood!
I have clone.-My volume on Priestcraft is the product
of public duty, not of inclination. I now tum again to
works of a more congenial description, and shall not
attempt to add any future vindication to what I have here
gifHm, once for alJ. As a man, you are unknown to me;-
as a minister of Christ, if evil speaking and deadly calumny
be qualifications for your office, then you are a most Cllrl.
tian minister. Whatever good wishes you han on behalf
of my peace and •alvation, be assured I have not the lesa
for yours. My warfare is not with you, but with your
system.
Yours, &c. &c.
WILLIAM HOWI'IT.
NoTTIMGBAII, July 15th, 1833.
, ~· .s. I have ~o return my sincere thanks to numercJQII
md1vrduals who, smce the first edition appeared, hne oflered
Coogle
VlNIUCATION, 427
me_
a111818 of evidence, enough, of i~ to form a volume,
,on the conduct of the clergy; on the grievances and indig-
-pi~ received at their hands in cases ofbaptisms, marri~,
;11114 burials; on the desecration of burial grounds; on the
._enormous amount and abuse of property attached to ca-.
thedrals, .
&c.; and especially on the bro\erage of church
,livings at public offices in LOndon, eatabli.ahed for that pur-
,~; and on that still more infamous brokerage of curacies,
,~y which the ill·paid labourer• of the church, are mulct of
,jlart of the meagre salaries secured to them by law. All
.tbia matter it is obvious, cannot be comprehended in a
l~t atr';dy pretty well filled, but I pledge myself it shall
1!lot be lost.
!Vottinglulm, July 23tl, 1833.
i .
' '.·\,
' ',.;-. · ;1,
..\
To be had of all Booksellers, price Seven Shillings,
WI,LLIAM HOWITT'S
HISTORY OF PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES..
A PROPHECY.
·" We predict for this work a popularity and utility equal
to those of anx book of the season ; but as for Mr. lloWi'*o
the clergy will be ready to 'swallow him up quick."'-
Christian Adt10cate, June 17th.
"All who fatten on the delusions which disgrace religieB,
will denounce its author as an atheist, an infidel, a leveller,
&c.; but let not our countrymen be again deceived witt.
this stale manwuvre."-Weekly D;,patch, June 23•.
THE PROPHECY SPEEDILY FULFILLED.
"His conception& of Christianity are, that Cl&rUt cmw ,.
bring FREEDOM into the world. • • • He uOOGJW ad
tndgar in atyle. • • • Anticlaristian ita ~· • • •
I!J110rant mtd ablurd. • • • • Radical ira~
Sociniaflized in belief. • • • Turbuleftt tMd ~
• • • A dunce. • • • A profeuor of borMalt tlllll
rhorkmwntade. • • • He acorn8 hia God. • • • H•
luu written himJ~elf FIEND in every page. • • • A pallry
atOm ofajtend. • • • A toad. • • • A .,.!.'f•
British, or Clerical Magazine, Jwy 1st.
VINDICATION. 42!J
" We come to the notice of thu "popular hilkfry" with
iJblolute loathiflg, for the t/Ugtuting narueo1111111u of our
tJUthor'a principles. Of thu< hil wretched fMTago of audtJ...
cioru falaehoorb-of thu impious compounJ of wl!Jarity anti
t1iolence, in all points of tJiew wicked and acandaM!ru, we feel
/;ow utterly incompet1111t we are to 'Peak in terma ofadequate
reprooation and abhorrence. ltl illiterate and furioua author
mo,g be fitly described in !til own worda, for HIS indeed u
" a career of blind rage, bitter and fooli&h prejudice• ;" nor
do We know ANY HODERN PUBLICATION Of lUCk " horrible
impudence in the most shameleu of itl lies," or "10 oJfen-
sifJt!ly i1uolent" in itl general tenor, a1 the wlume on our
table. .
" The clergy are mightily ooliged to him for hil friendly
deligm. They thank him heartily for !til tender merciea;
they forgifJt! him NOBLY hu wholesale lltmdera; they pity hi&
ignorance ; they deteat hil prineip/e•; tl.ey maiZe at hi#
pedantic conceit; they abominate hil hypocrily; they UJathe
hu here'!! ; they denounce him aa a retJiler of Chriltian ordi-
fiQIICel j but they FOilOIVE HIH HII ltC~UiliOUS ATTACrte, and
tM:g pray to God to gwe him grace to repmt of hil enormou
blGiphern#1. • • • They adffile the Quaker• to e:rcom-
municate thu faue di&ciple I ! /-CHRISTIAN (I ! !) Remem-
brancer, or Churchman's Ecclesiastical and Literary Mis-
cellany, Nov. 1833. ·
A COUNTER•BLAST TO CLERICAL BILLINGSGATE.
"That such a man as William Howitt can have no object
in exposing priestcraft, but to serve true religion and true
liberty, will be believed by all, except those who, if an angel
from heaven were to denounce the state-creed, would declare
him 1111 enemy to the Church, and an infidel. We can see,
that with all the gentleness of Christian feeling, the author,
in·exposing the errors and abuses produeed·by the UDion of
Clwrch and State, cannot avoid the expreaaion of a virtuoWI
indignation."-Mancheater Ti111es.--.June 29.
A WISE CAUTION.
" We candidly atlOID our wiah, that thi& UJOrk 1hould not
be read at thil juncture."-Metropolitan Magazine; now.
~di~ by a Conservath·e. . .
Coogle
VUIDIC~JOlf,
"It ia aa bold and unco~ a denunciation ofthe
syatem aa ever ilsued from the pnu of thia or any oU.
coun~. It llhewa Mr. Howitt to be intima\ely acq~
with hwtory, and eapecially the history of religion, &J;l~t
and modern. .Many pauagea are not more relll8f4ble
for the aterling sense they exhibit, than for tlle eloguelit
s&yle in which they are composed." :
Liwrpool Albiott, July J.
" A &J.llendid piece of el~uence, and reminds UB ago&!
deal of the pl'Oie of .Milton. '-.AtAenteum. ·. ..
"On th' Eceleaiutical Courta and UniYel'lidea, Mr.
Howitt baa 10111e striking observations." ·
Mordlly Beciew,luly·i~·:
"Such a book aa thia niiiNla from aa no recomm~
aa a pallpOrt; its eloquence, its power, its truth, will W
a way to every hearl alive to a Mille of true religiora. ..I
true liberty. It will be read and valUid by every~· .
ia a lover of hia God, md of hia fellow-men." ..
Brig}ltola GtuJrtlUua,. .July a~
" we have great pleasure in noticing thia work, whicll:ia
well adaptsd to the· apirit and neceaitiea of the paent
times. The belief is deeply xooted, and ia daily beco~
more widely spread, that establiahed religions are incom-
patible with good gonrnment. It ia a duty incumbtmt
upon us to spread those opinions which will eventually
destroy the Cliurch tu an imtrument of tAt Seau, which will
eever the unholy and baneful alliance, which baa too long
exiated, and leave Episcopacy in Eugland to act, aa it dael
in Americ~ U.F._~ ~ aupport ofitsadherenta, and ofillllo
alone."-SMJ!Hkl ltuUpnulmt, July 13. ..
"This work ia the production of .Mr. Howitt, a highlJ-
lrifted member of the Society of Friends, and is llkely to
J;ecome extremely ~ular, and to awaken an iDtedle mte-
rest."-York Herllld, Julf 13. ·
"It baa given us particular Jlleaaure to find WilJilm
Ho;witt, ~~~ Quaker, of J.X>etic&l ad literuy ~ty,
enl1ated m the ranka of the JDost sealous poli~. -
, . ,,Coogle
VlJJ111CATIOIC. 431
i!eclesnistieal reformers. Indeed, we have often marveDed
,at.tbe servility or indifterence of minds, gifted like that of
_
the author before us, upon questions direetly aft'ecting the
welfare and happiness of the human race. How coUld a
roet (l!e have often said), one of those who are especially
· quick to feel and wise to know,' look cahnly on all the
op~nt.tbat are done under the sun, or even lend the
po1vers of his genius to celebrate the triumph of the tyrant
.,.d evil-doer? Poets should rather be the Chosen spirits to
gUide and cheer the world, and to redeem their fellows
from the doom ofignorance, privation, and alavery. Upon
~ gt'OUDCls we have sometimes felt inclined to q'll8l'l'1ll
even with Shakspeare, and to turn with mote heartfelt
adm\ration and gratitude to the immortal vindicator of
liberty, the patriotic Milton•
.· ·:"W
.e ·are gl&e! to find by the conclUiion of the 9·e,
thAt the autbor 11 prepared to meet the abuse an4
of bigots and time-sei-ver&-be will doubtlesa have enoag
or·these to contend with-let him despise and defy their
utmost rancour, and content himeelf with the conaciousn818
of'hie-own good works, and the app!Oving testimony of the
li~eral and the wiae."-Kint Herald, Julyll.
· .''The qualities of William Howitt's Popular History of
·Priestcraf\ are fearless discussion, honest independence, an
. obviouS love of truth, and a warm interest in every thing
that can promote the welfare of humanity."
. The Scot. Time•, July 9.
"' "The anthor of this deeply interesting little volume takes
-·a · rapid survey of/riestcraft, as it has existed from the
:em!iest periods, an ends with an able exposition of the
manifold corruptions of the existing Church of England.
~t will supply the long-existing deficiency of a popular
!ftStory of religious imposture."-Tke Satin.t•
.·." 'Mr. Howitt ie one of the very few bold and avowedly
Christian writers which the present age hail produced."
True Sun, July 8.
. '
• ': "Of-the general, historical, and reflective character of the
work before us, however, we can speak in the highest tenns ;
432 .VINI)ICATION.
and to our readers we recommend it as an amusement and
a study, frOm the indulgence in which they cannot fail to
become wiser men, and more emboldened champions in
that great cause of Religious Reformation, the final battles
of which must in a few years be fought and won, in the
mother-bosom of .our poor Hierarchy-bestridden England."
Bell's New Messenger.
"William Howitt here presents himself in a new cb...
racter. We were acquainted with him as a Quaker, a
naturalist, a poet, a man of observant mind, kind feelings,
and pure taste ; but had not associated him with the idea
of a reformer in church and state, a warm politician. We
rejoice to meet him in this character.
" The little book now before us is rich in poetical beauty
and religious feeling. The stern truth is told both of the
past and the present; and it is 10 toldtu to make Ulfeeltllfll
in the severest condemnation there is no malignity; that in
the proposed changes there is no aim at party triumph ;
but that the writer's single object is to shew how mankind
have been injured, by what arts, under what pretences, and
how their deliverance from this wretched thr&ldom may be
effected. In the latter portions of the volume, those which
relate to the present condition and practices of the Church
of England, there is a dignity, a beauty, and a richness of
style, with a distinctness of poetical conception, and an
elevation of sentiment, that reminds us strongly of the
prose works of Milton.
" We hope that this little book will widely circulate, aad
that it will aid in bringing on that spiritual renovation which
is so pre-eminently to be desired for our country."
Monthly Repository, July I.
Maaoior and Co., Printers, Ivy Lane, Patemooter Be•.
PREPARING FOR P~BLICATION.
BEAUTIFULLY EMBELLISHED WITH WOOD•CUTS.
SKETCHES OF NATURAL HISTORY,
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.
The Coot.
The Camel,
. .Cedar 'l'reea, &c.
BY MARY HOWITT.
The Locust.
The Fossil Elephant.
The Lil~le, &c•
ALSO,
The Squirrel.
North~rn Seas.
The Ostrich, &c.
THE PILGRIMAGE OF PANTIKA;
OR,
TRADITIONS OF THE MOST ANCIENT TIMES.
BY WILLIAM HOWITT.
ht nicht rile gauze Ko·de de• Herro ein Wohnplntz dor l'tfenscheit T
\\Tenn Agomippe, Aretbn1e, Derc:e uurl der Cepbiuus angenehm rauscbea,
warmn BOlte niebt dort auch der Jordan, der Kur, df'r Ganges labende
Wellt:n tr(>iben1 Warum nicbt anch ein Bach in der tbebaitchen Wliste '!
HEBDBR.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
V&L. I.
1. The Pil~rim•ge of Pantika in
quest of the Eternal Truth.
"2. Nicar,the Exile of Heaven.
3. The Preadaanire King.
4. B1·t-ltnthma, rbe desolate aod
the fltltbful.
VoL. Jl.
3. The Valley or Angels.
6. lthran, the Demoniac.
7. The Soothsayer of No.
8, .The Avep~er of ,lllood,
