{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__jung-stilling___theory_of_pneumatology.pdf","mytitle":"Theory Of Pneumatology","mylang":"de"}
THEORY OF fNEUMATOLOGY,
IN llB!LY TO TBK QUESTION,
WHAT OUGHT TO BB Bl!:LIEVBD OR DISBBLIEVBD
CONCIRIUNG
ACCORDING TO NATURE, REASON, AND SCIUI'TURE7
BT
DOCTR. JOHANN HEINRICH [UNG-STILLING,
LATE PROFESSOR OP THE UNIVERSITIES OP HEIDELBERG AND
MARBURG, AND PRIVATE AULIC-COUNSELLOR TO THE
GRAND DUKE OP BADEN.
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, WITH COPIOUS NOTBS1
SAMUEL JACKSON.
LONDON:
LONG::l44N, UEES, 0RME1 BROWN1 GREEN, AND LONGMAN.
lll.:W• .
i
\....._________
--.... -
·-~·~•~"i .-Prf~te.s ~y'~i~ A: Son, 187, Cniou S
.·.::··:: ···.. ::: ..
.... ... . ...
.. ~ ~-=· ~-.:
.. ..-.·... :
,
PREFACE,
BY THB TBAKSLATOB,
THERE will be doubtless many, into whose
hands this work may fall, who will be ready to in-
·quire, "What does it concern me, whether I believe
in appearances from the invisible world or not ? and
what benefit can society derive from the publication
of such a work?"
f . '
..
To this, it is priefly replied, that its object is,
first of all, to overthrow the system of Materialism
and consequent Infidelity, which is so alarmingly
prevalent; secondly, to place undeniable supernatu-
ral phenomena upon theft- proper basis, which, at
this juncture is peculiarly needful; thirdly, to
cast a clear and evident light upon the state of the
PaEI'.lCE.
soul after death, respecting which, such great and
dangerous mistakes are made, and such wilful igno-
rance prevails; an~ laatly, by such a variety of
solemn conaiderations, to promote personal holiness
in the heart and lite. The work has therefore refer-
ence, more or len, to e•ery indiridual, and the
Translator feels persuaded, that an i•partial peru-
~al of its pages, will conrince the reader of its im-
portance and utility.
It is true, the subject is unpopular, and it hn,s
been oppoeed, nm rtcently, by several learned men,
who have endeaTonred to bring it into still greater
disrepute ; but it is in .ain to argue against well-au-
thmticated facts, or from natural data, to judgt! of
that which is spiritual. Scarcely is there an indi•i-
dual, who pasaea through life, without baring either
experienced something of the kind himself, or beard
of auch like appearances from credible testimony ;
and although many, deceived by false reasoning,
may attribute all thae to a·disordered imagination,
or to optieal illusion, and be therefore inclined to
reject nery attempt to plaee the subject in a more
conapicuous light: yet there are also some, who
are still open to comiction, and dissatisfied with
vii
the specious efforta that we. made to explain away
every manifestation from the world of $piriti, will
welcome a work which profeases tQ draw aside the
veil of obscurity, in which thii highly important
&ubject has been so long enveloped, and peru~e it
with &eriousneas and atwntion.
The most plausible theories are, however, of
little real value, unless they are based on irrefraga-
ble premises; and our author has, therefore, not
been wanting to adduce a series of well-authentica-
ted facts to establish his positions. To these the
Translator has added, in the notes, a variety ofstate-
ments ofa similar nature, extracted from other cre-
dible sources; that by the testimony of a number of
witne.-ses, at di!ferent periods, and in va.rio~ coun-
trieii, the subject may be placed, ,as much as possi-
ble, beyond a doubt.
But should these varwus testimonies fail of
producing enti1·e conviction, or should the iJ:!.quiring
mind desire further information on topics so import-
ant: the writer has the pleasure to state, that since
the translation of the present work, he has met with
a most singulat· and remarkable proofof the different
yjjj PREFACi:.
positions laid down by our Author, in a foreign pu~
lication of very recent date, which gives still greater
insight into the nature of the spiritual world and its
connexion with the material ; and should his pre-
~nt undertaking meet with a favourable reception,
11e trusts, ere long, to be able to lay the work in
question also before the public.
Herne Hill, 1st Jan. 1834.
CONTENTS.
PAGE,
INTRODUCTION~ ,
Beliefofall nations, in every age, in ~bleinfluence.
-The objects of this belief corresponded with the national
character.-Hence the doubts ofthe existence ofa world of
spirits.-Refutation of·these doubts, and proofs of the real-
ity ofa world of spirits.-The Bible the genuine ,source of
truth. Various parties with respect to the belief of it.-
The first party receives the Holy Scriptures as a divine re-
~lation, and is divided into two classes. The first believes
that all apparitions, since the time of the apostles, are de-
ceptions or illusions of Satan.-The second believes them·
all, and attaches too much importance to such apparitions;
warning against it.-The second party subjects the Bible to
the criticism of reason, and reduces every ·thing to mere
morality.-The third party believes nothing at all; it is the
most prevalent in the present day.-The intention of this
lTork bas reference to all these partie!'. My motives for it.-
The first party is shown, that amongst so many thousand
deceptions, there are, notwithstanding, real apparitions.-
The second party must not regatd eYery thing inexplicable
aJ mltwal; tile a~- of tbe most dreadful en\hu1\um.-
s
PAGJ
~of the tbird md fourth pubes, they explain~
chiaslllbaally, md are iDcited by three kiDds of motives.
-The fint motin is, the supp!*d im:fiagability of the
~ sy1tem.-Tbe leCOOd is, the mer-
.-_ of supentitioa, widaout a conect kDowledge of iL
Good ad.-iee far Jcwea ofthe truth.- The tbird is, the wish
tbat then! Wen! DO iDrilihle wGdd; cWectin idea of the
immortalityofthe IOU!. •
CHAPTER I.
r.::UIU.ATJOB .,.'£J'UTATJO'ill OF TBZ PIU~CJPLES OF
IUTE&JALJSII.
Dreadfulabue of the belief in pretentiments and ap-:
paritiolll of spiritl amoogst Jew and Heatheas. Ratifica..
tion therecli by Chrilt and hilapclldes.-ldeas of the first
cbriatiao cbudles of the iDYisible world.-Their ideu of
the tOlar .,.._.........orthe abode and inftueooe of good and
nil Uipb UJd departed -i..-AccordaDce of these idEOS
with the Bible,and the then preftleat Platonic pbilolophy.
-Tbe pride UJd ambiboD of the clergy was the calll!e why
all theMideu depoerat.ed into dreadful errors and abuses.
-Tbe cbW IOUJ'C8 of the most senteleu superstition, its
overt&anr not accomplished by denying the truth.-Ovel'-
tbrow at the anciellt Ptolemaic IIOiar system by the Coper-
nican; acrupla with re6!rence to this.-Consequences of
the Itefonnation and renewed mi!takes.-New philosophi.
calsystem1, the Copernican system established, prejudicial
CO!lleCluencel of thil system with regard to the chtistian
faith.--Con10ling Ul\mUlce with respect to these conse.
quencet.-IIplllliltent CODduet of the clergy at all these
xi
PAGE.
disooferif:s. Origin of Materialilm aDi Fatalism.-The
wmd a macbine, its self-e:r.iateDce, which needs DO dime
~ intilible inftueooe.-Auempt of philOIO(lhen to unite
1heirmechanical system with the freewill of man.-Hence
the system of the best of worlds, its ilbsurdity.-Horrible
cmsequeoces of this system, and yet it continues the
guiclqliar ofmodem eulighteoing,which leads to destruc-
tioo.-Leibaitz, the inveotorofthis system, did DOt fOrebode
ita lellllts, his Tbeodice.-Not all the disciples ofthis syw-
tem ue 10 deeply sunk, bllt.are yet oa dae way to it-
Hindmuces in the way of my 1'bec.y ol Pneumatology;
they must be :removed.-To these belong the mechaoism of
the warld, which needs neither God, nor angels, nor spi-
rils.~otwithlllanding all thele discoveries, the common_
people adheled to tbeir iUth and supentitiOPI..-Tbe light
ofIDOIIem pbilosophy discoftl'ed nperstitioo in allits n;r.
iedoa; it wu overthrown, but Bith along with it. Bai-
tlamBecker, 'Thomasiua.-Basis on which the Blllllilers of
sapen1itioD ad &ith erect their batteries. Atheism, its
result.-Pretended proof,that there are neither good llOl' nil
angels.-Difficulty in the explanation of human nature.-
DoctriDeof indivisibility and predetermined harmony. The
~ system, that the soul can do nothing without the
body.-Melancholy: and comfortless consequences of this
system.-Developement of the erroneom fundamental pfin..
ciples of Mataialism.-A.ccomplishment and 1
proof of this
developament. Our ideas ofthe 'risible.world depend solely
upon the 01pniotiao of our organ~ of sense.-Tbe organa
oflleDie are COIIIICioua ofthings in time and space, both are
their ewa -m. of perceptiao.-God aloae views the world
xii CONTENTS.
PAG
as it really is, but not in time and space; therebe neither
of them exist in nature.-Im-ine origin of the onJU~Uation
o( hu111111natnre.-Caution against ldealism.-Proof of the
~ioo in the paragraph preceding the last.-Wbat the
!lensible world is.-Forthis weareorganized,tothis belongs
the Copernican system : but fur the super~sible world,
the· Bible idea is the true one•...,...The mechanical system is
our sure guide in the aensible w<a"ld, but is death and des-
truction in the super~ble.-The plan ol the best world
i~ a childish idea. Modeofactingwithrespect to the divine
counsels. The sensJ'ble w<a"ld consists of beings which are
entirely unkDown to us ; intimate connection of the super-
!leflBible with the visible; light is the medium.-Division
ofthe whole creation into the sensible or visible world, and
the invisible or world of spirits; man enters the latter at
death.-The inhabitants of the world ofspirits, who are in
the two kingdoms, consist of good and evil angels and hu-
man 1011ls: Their influence on the invisible world.-The
system of Materialism rejected, and the free theocratic sys-
tem put in its place.
CHAPTER II.
REMARKS UPON THE NATt:RE OF MAN.
Warning against soaring too high.-Good and evil
angels act upon the visible world, but our reason and sen-
ses are seldom conscious of it.-Proof that mankind are
by no means referred to these influences, but solely to the
d!vine government.- The actio in diltan1 is unnatural in
the visible world, but natural in the invisible.-Sense of
the terms foreboding and presentiment.-Correct idea of
CONTENTS, xiii
PAGE.
the human body in former times.-Total ignorance of the
soul and how it operates uponthebody; a newly opened
source of knowledge.-Animal Magnetism, its origin,
abuse, and truth.-Assured sources of its correctness and
certainty.-Limitation to undoobted results, somnambu-
lism, eultation of the powers of the souL-Seeing from
the region of the heart, radiant atmosphere around tbe
magnetizer, and looking into his interior.-Pereeption of
others through the magnetizer. (Rapport) perfect exalted
l'OIISCiousness, reading from the region of the heart.-
Remarkable book on the inward man. .Account ofan ex-
tremelyinteresting somnambulist at Lyons.-Remarkson
theforegoing aeeount.-8omnambulists read the thoughts
in the lOWs of others; an example of this.-They attain
an insight into the world of spirits, bring astonishing in-
telligence &om thence, and know what takes place at- a
distance.-The most uninfonned somnambulists attain in
their bodies a correct acquaintance with their disease, and
prescribe the most eft'eetual remedies for it. Somnambu-
lists often act like sleepwalkers, but in a more perfect man•
ner.-Notwithstanding the greatest physicians are convin-
ced of all this, they do not dare to act upon it, because
it contradicts their system.-Ofether, the theories of light
and sound are inadmissible, and unsatisfactory.-Proof
that ethel' is the uniting medium between the visible and
invisible world.-The nervous power or animal spirit is
etherial.-How this light-being and the rational soul unite
in the body.-Three component parts of man, body, light-
eovering, and spirit; the two latter constitute the hutll1ln
!IOul.-More minute df¥CI'iption of the human 110'11\, \ra.\\
CO!ITJ!K'I'I•
P.t.G
animal, half upl.-The aoul ia D&turallynot 'rieible; the
somDIIIIlbulists tee hasauaureblaeglilllllllefofligtlt; itsat.-
mospllereabout thebody-Thesoulwork&D8tarallytbi'Otlgb
·the medium of the brain and the nen'ell, in the magnftic
state without eitber.-Ia the latter state, dae 110U1 opetates
in a aucb more lively and e:uked mumer, thanin the for-
mer; butitesperieoces ootlling ofthe visibleworld ueept
in rapport--It is iDcolepnhemible, that thele reQIIU'U..
ble dilconri• ue~aot lllkeaadvaota§e ofp~yClbolotPcally.
-The etemtl spirit ..., have a mediua by wbicb it
feels ud ia ielt; tbU is ellMr.-Ideraoes drawa from
magueUc esperieDc:e; they ,..ewe the nil&eo~ ofa coYer-
ing of light, tllat dae soul potiHII8I the. body merely fer
the viaible world, aod without it, is much r.Gre pel'fea
&c.-Wbal p111e1 ie the soul at deadl.-Tbe objec:tioo
refuted, that the IOIIUlambulists use the .uerves aod the
brain,......Funller importaat concl.usioas reprdingthe state
of the soul af&er death.-Hysteric and melancholy trances
are DOihing JIIIOIIe than a naturally produced aomnambu-
lism-AU vitions,revelationa,and propbeciea,wbicboa:a
in this ~. are ~iDg butthe COII.IeCJ.UencesofIOIIIDaDl
bulisal, aod aot cll~ine, but the effects ol cfl8eale.-
CaUiel of a na&wal JllllllleUC aleep.-Caraal aft'ection
one ofita fruid'ul eourcea. Several l'eiiiKka.ble aod qfead.
ful illllalloesof it.-Suhllantial proofthat the holies& lOUis
in lhil.aate are Dot IIQlre agaiu& decep&ion.-Imponaat
destilly of ruD, aDd tbe du&ia raul&inc from it.-Singu.
Jar efl'ects of1MnOU. dilordui. Appeii8DI* ill a wakiag
state, u well ia &raoeel, rn.a aa&ural caua ; appear-
ance~ from lht arilillle worlll. 11te bcNDdariell ot
COXt'Uft. X¥
PAGE.
bolh.-Eml tbe IROit acred Mid sublime appeatallCH,
.aybe the e8leets ofa. diteued imagination. Ita a..ea•
llble co~uences.-The highest kind of apparition•
ilauded in the nature of man, is when the individual is
able to show hiJDII('lf ebewhere, whilst alive in the body.
-Very remarkable oecurrence in America.-The circum-
Siallce erplained, and remarks upon it.-Several degrees
ofdetlchment of the soul from the body.· Sleep, dreams,
sleepwalbn. 'l'n.ocM of by•lerical and hypochondriacbal
indiridlllll, complete detachmeat mdeath.·-In ODe per-
lOll tills deCMhment is easier than in another ; secret
111ea111 for euailling it.-More minute and lucidexplana-
tioo efiM QIOCIUrrence in Ameriea."--On selkppt>arance~~,
wileD tay one eet11 bimself; imaginary apparitions.-The
questi• decided where natural appearancee cease, and
those frem the invisible world commence.-On the capa-
bility«"enteri.~ into connexion with the invisible world
in this lifi!. 'I'he longing of certain departed souls for >
lhis intercoarse.-Natnre of the invisible world and its
situatio!l. Hades.-Departed souls ate as mach afraid
ofthe apparitions ofthe living, as the latter are of them.
-Wherein the capability of intercoarse with spirits con-
sists.--8m!denbcwg's history. He was no deceiver.-
Prooftbat his afFair with the Queen of Sweden is t'rlre·--
HisaDDOUDcing at Gottenburga fire taking placeat Stock-
holm. Be shews a widow where her·deceased husband
had deposi~ a receipt.-Remarkable and authentic ac-
coull'tofwhat passed between Swedenborg and a merchant
of Elberfeld.-What is truth and error with respect to
sri
P.&C
SwedeDborg-1DCODtestible c:oocllllioa respecti.Dgthe D&-
ture ol JDaD..-(;autioa apiost the ia•wble world ; bow
10 act ia tueb a cue
CHAPTER Ill.
0)( I'BJ:!>F.liTIMtliTS, PB£DICTIOJ;I, £liCBAl'TMENTS, .&:\II
PBOPDEIYIIiG,
Real presentiments, dneloped ·raculty o( presea&i·
menu, wilehcn&ft, predictiona, and real di<riue prophecies.
--1'-1 preseotimeats.-U.emarkallle presentiment o( the
late Profe11110r Doehm.-l'hilwophical e.r.planatioa o( thil
preMDtiment refuted.-True and lliblical elltplaoatioa of
real praentimeall.-lncomprebensible absurdity of Ma-
terialilm.-Uemarkable preaentiment of my late principal,
Mr.Spanier.-1h certainty,objection refuted.- Madamde
lleaamoat's account of a remarkable true presentimeot.-
Another of a ~ousekeeper, who foreboded that an arbour
would be ~truck by ligbtning.-Presentiments, the object
orwbicb ill DOt eaaily ucertained, fint instance, M. Von
llrenkeahof'a dream.--Probable object of this dream.-
Vr.ry remarkable propheticdream oftbe PrineetS Nagollky
uf W~tuaw.-Threo similar dreams regarding the lottery
by Ur. Knape.-l'resentimeuts communicated by a pious
pr...claer.-lwltuctioiUI upoa such apparently aimleu
rll't!llnlt.--luautficieucy uf .1\l~t&erialilm in the explanation
nf tlaoiK! fM:ta.-SubKta.ntilll deductions from this dark
~tlfiair.---l'riucil'lllt of my 1'1wory of l,neumatology, and
of n.'lll JIR:IMIIItirueul.it.-·Aimlll~s forebodings and dreams,
COKTEJITI.
P.lGlE.
what tile faculty of presentiment is, its developemeut.-
How thefilcUityof preeentiment operates.-Lasting geoe-
ral cleon!loped faculty vi peHntiment, seYeral linda ol
such penoo~.-The ftnt kind is, when the &culty 01 pre-
sentiment is developed by the practice Ofgodlinea.-The
danger of this state, and how those have to act who find
themselvesin it.-The conduct ofothers in sue~ circum-
stances.-Vez1 important caution regarding auch atra.or-
diniV)' gits..-.ltemarb.ble llculty of preseotimeDt ia
Madaa W·. of 8--.-~ upon it, con&rmatieo
of my theory, Magic, warning against it. Apparition of
Admiral Coligny.~Moat remarkable prediction of 14.
Cazotte, at Paris, in the year 1788-Proof of the trutla
of tru. nanative.-An addition to it, and to the proofof
its truth.-Refiections, conclusions, wan~iogs, &:A:.-
Secood..-ight, a consequence of a deftloped faculty of
presentimeat.-A singular instance of this kind In the
proviaee of Nusau.-Another from the Westphalian
county ofMark.-Explanation of second-sight, being a
coosequence ofadeveloped faculty of presentiment;'duty
of the police with respect to it.-Explanatory remarb on
second-sight.-Materialists not only deny all phenomena
from tlae invisible world, butalso brand them with infamy,
beeaUII dleJ are experimental proofs ofthe christian re-
ligioo.-.Elucidation ofthis proof; wha& is inc:umbell' on
such ocaliaaa.-Causes why such like apparitions are10
seldom inquired into.-How the true chriltian ought to
act in this eue.-An important remark.--On witchcraft
and enchantmeDt, their possibility.-On the power of
Satan, he can now injure no one except by the man's
b
xviii COliTENTSo
PAGE.
own fault:-No ,more can witches and magicians.-Origin
and history of 'witcbcraf\;-An instructive narrative :es--
planaf.ory of tllis dark aftilir.......SueR. etilpicious characters
should be ae*with in a nitional imd'christian-like man-
ner.--The accusing any one of witchotaft a horrible and
yet not unoommon crime.-Remarbble account by Eck-
hartshausen Ofthe efects ofcertain perfumes.-Appearan-
ces overgruves;probably reeurrection-genna.--W,by magic
potions, ~rfames, &c. are prejudicial to health; various
means ·used by heathen -nations co ·procure intercourae
with the inviiible world.-All these acts were forbidden by _
the Mosaic Law. The WitchofEndor, Saul, and-Samuel•. .
-Extremelyimportant results.of my theory of,the deve-·
loped· faculty of presentiment. .Exhortation. to prudence:
with regard to ihe times that are approaching.--Proof that
the real- Bible-miracles were not wrought by magnewm, ·
&c.-ProGf that ·the ·developed faculty of presentiment
must by no·~eans be·confounded with the.gift of prophe-.:
cy.-Real chazacter ofthe prophets and thilir predictioiiS.
My ideas df Balaam. . · .97
. CHAPTEn IV.
· 05 VlSlOliiS .A:ND:APPARITiqlliS.. ·
Superstition has eaused accoli.nts of apparitions to be
received•with ridicule, but all do not proceed from supersti,... ·
tion.-'-Proof of the possibility and reality of apparitions of ..
spirits, against philosophers and theologians.---WhatI mean
by visions.-Rule by which a vision may be distinguished
from a real apparition~-Very remarkable apparition of a
spirit that seeks•to ind~ce one·eM-its descendants to dig for
GOKTEKTII.
PAGE
treasure, and leaves striking marts of ita presence On a Bi-·
ble and handkercbief'.-An importantappendageto this Dll'-
rative.-Proof of its aulheDticity.-&planalioo how the
sea's Dc:ulty of presentiment became gradually developed,
by which difficulties are cleared up.-Dradfill state ofa
dqmted~whichisllti1l ~by at~tto earthly
tbiugs.-Proof that the n~qutists of tbespirit1Wlleimproper;
and thatthe - was in the right not to fulfil them. lltu-
sire appearance~.-Prool that spirits poasess a ereative
power.-What would probably have been the result; if the
spiritllld been obeyed.-Explana.tion how the spirit was
able to read writiug.--Important infereoces from the filet,
.nattbe spirit,when angryor melancholy, streamed fire from
hi.! fingers.-Why he appeared in the clothes he commonly
w~n.-Gmdual progress of spirits after death, with which
their appeanmce and costume corresponds.-On tbe inter-
oourse and social relationsofdeparted souls.--Further sup-
positions. Proof that both the spirit and hs superiors were
in error.-Well.fuunded supposition that the work of re-
demption is carried on afterdenth.-Remorkahle apparition,
which proves that we· ougli'i not to be presumptuous with
regard to the invisible world and its circumstances.--Ap-
parition of Augustus·U . King of Poland, to field-marshal
Von Grwnbkow.-Certainty of the fact. Causes which
might have induced the soul of the king. to appear to
Grumbkow.-Psychological definition ofthe mode ofthink-
ing and imagining after death.--Whether we shall, after
death, contemplate the works of creation, and that in a
superior manner than at present.- What is to be inferred
from self apparitions; three instances of it.~Ptoo~ \\\-a.\\\()
j ~il:Jliit~fJ: ~~~i~t1 litl1·~·iJt.
f1 .. ~ 'ur · ·s.h~!rifr ·rt·~~
-~~tilt ·1=··~ .. ~. • ~J .r ;r ti1. ~
Ib ~~~et~H~fHr~fiij h·f •t ·
· j
· 1!•l. ~ ~H ~•tf l].~ ~· r l a. a· [ 11.;r Lt·
i. I ' i. f [ if ., I t ' ~~- 1- .' If. f t.J I I !f @ ~- ~·. 'G
~
COIII'RJRI. ui
PAGE,
adi&inut -.-Tile iPipO"'MCCe ol ..... ftiODT 'W· ......
be .ll8tl!riDg 6e. otiMw wcftl.-H.. a 4lepaMI lpirit
llllJ ... ud dillaiapilh hat ud co&d, lipt IDil dark-
....-J.quiry wily tile ...,.......a;.tioeo( tba twoIJiiritawok •
pia ill the eudlly llate.-Proof ol the meJaDCboly Clllllle-
quelll& pnllluoed iD et.erDity by ablunl fBetiDp olrank.-
Importaat ru1es orCl0111111et widl aespeet to nmk.-~WUcu-
larly b ralea.-Apptimtimtflltbeleideuao tbe apparition
oltbe... two lpiri&L-Probahle.... wby Priaee CllriJ-
tia oalenld ~ ao be burial iD quick-lime. 0. lpi-
rib lll.t 'ftDdlr about without any object.-llemarbble
-.anaor~ apparition o( tbe.prito( a C.pucbiaIIIODk;
~e courage ofdleobeerYer,wbich might have been
daogeroas to him.-Wbat he ought to have done.-The
spirit.XIheCapMlhin doelDOt beloag to tbe cla.u ol merely
lllisy apectres.-Probable flliiiOII8 wJ-y the spirit olthe Ca-
pacbio acta the part ofa Sacll;bearer,and why he was heard
so dreadfully at the happy d!!8Jh ofa prvCellant.-Why tbe
spirit appeared twice in the figure o( a Capuchin, but did
oot let bimBelf be aeen by my frieod.-IDCODCeivable con-
duct ofpeople at the appeuance ol ipirita.-8ingular re-
mark that spirits have no re1t, till their remains are regularly
interred.-Such requests proceed &om mislaken ideas.
How to act in such ca.s.-A hint of IIODle importance,
that it is proper to inter dead bodies.-Account of the cele-
brated White Lady, and where she appears.-Authenticity
and truth Of this apparition. Two irrefutable testimonies.
-Further account where, how, and when the White IA'ldy
appears.-She bas only spoken twice.--A peculiarly r~­
markable apparition of the White Lady, oo:asioned. b'j \~
ixii CO'MTE'MTio
P.uu:.
~ ofa charitable in~titution.-Tbe White Lady i11 not
in a etnte ofsalvation, much I~ of perdition.-Her proba-
Jt history and pRrentage. Her name i~ Bertha Von Ro-
lll!llberg, and she li'ltld in the fifteenth cemury-Her mar-
riage with Johann Von Lichtenlltein proves •ery unhappy,
hence her mental bitternl!ll!l,which hitherto prewsnts her 111-
Yntion.-She it! left a widow, build11 the cutle of Neut.us,
and illlltitutes a yearly fea.'lt for the poor.-ller place and
manner 01 appearinlf more precisely fiud.-~ble ra.a
10111 why she wanden about, and ocaurionafty appean.-
ller state is not dl!lliruble, Mhe is !!till in error. Appariti01111
of spiritll do notproduce nmendment. Concluding remark!!. m
l:llAl'TJodl V.
A brief'reYiew of the Theol')' or l'neomatology, and
inferences from it. 310
NOTJo:S.
INTRODUCTI.ON·
••
••
Ir we take a retrospective view ot the historr of
llllllkin~ from the ~tperiOd up to the earneatages,
'ire-ab&n find. that.it i8 increaiiugly interwoven Wl'lh the
~ of ~per or"sub-h~ good or evil beinp ~
beiDgi, whMe eXiatenceu well u whole actions aeem to
8ftno appro~ plan in the chain of ~Dil"ble nature,
llldy~have~bdieved.inbyeveryuatiou u:pOil earth.
clow:u to the preeeut time. . :
The observatio~, ·that all these beings adapt them-
~vea p~isely to the clWaeter and degree of eulttae
~ the people by whom ihey are believ~ ·houoftd, or
abhorreci. is at theaame time both very"juat and remark•
able. If we ·compare the mythology of the ancient
Egyptians, Greeks, and RomansWith the wilcitomancee
>l the Icelandic Edda,.the grotesque labyrinth of the
nyth~logy ofBrani~. ancl theabotnhlationa of"the ancient
~~cana. we shall find that the deities ofeach ofthese
. .
2 ISTBODUCTlOM•
..-ions y,·ere, ao to speak, their countrymen. The good
conducted themaclvea precilely according to the m&Dnen
4of those that were esteemed the 'better clus, and the
wicked practised that which wu regarded u vicious.
This observation gives aome shadow of probabili'J
to the pre~e~~t pre\'Biling idea amongst rationaliata1 that
aU these beings have, at no period and in no nation. beeD
.ny thing elae than a dream, a deception of the i~­
ation, and a fable, and that they are 10 atill ; but t.ba&
thil ia nothing more or len than a1lrado•, may be euily
proved, Let the following question be calmly, impar-
tially, ~d conacientiously considered·.and inve~
. ...Can tlJC.human i~agillJUOD conceive or create imy
thing for which it ·IW' no materials?" Every hOuett
rational thinker will anawer, "No, itcannotpouiblyfoilll
an image of that which don not strike the sen~e~." Itt
tlm'efore, inconteatibly follow• from hence, that mankiacl
n~ver would have hnd even a diltant presentiment orUl
invisible world of apiriu, of the continuation orour es:·
istence af\er denth, ofgood and evil apirita and of deitfel,
jf that y,·bic:h ia above aenae had not revealed itldlf to
,Hnae. Wh)" il it that we know nothing of an uaimal
world of apirita 1 Why ia the re-nppearanoe orfrlencDy
,dunac•tit• animals nevl'r spoken of? Naturally ~
.,u·ll " K"orld nnrr naanifeated itHl£to mau. But where
lft&OD'Uei'IOlf, s
I there deb a revelation of the ~ WOrld of~
>be faimd, on the statements of which we can ..t'ely:
lepend, and oD. the certainty'of which, ·irrenrmDle i.yw-i
;ems:may be foundeci 1
· The genuine Israelite and the true-believing.Cbriat-
tian iimnedi.ately· and with confidence reply, "·ID the
Bible t''• : .'l'rne ; .but the public,·'for who~ I write•
conaiata of parties, whose ideas of.this holy document
ue much at variance.
: '"nle fuat.oftheeepartieareceives, withouthmtation,
aD-tl&at ill said in 'tlie Bible; u'thnvord of God; and,.
yetthis pariyii1iluiwiaedivided intotwo fliatinct elasiea~
The ·iDdivichialal ·"'ilo comp01e the·fuit claaa, adller8
lbinJy to:the' articles of fait11 (}f tke Proteatant chui-eh,
Uld wbilat they:believe all the appearances from them-
rildble wOrld, whieli are related intht! Bible, reject every
tJW.w oftbia nature.iubaequent to.tbe timesotthe Apoe•
tit!!!; and when undeniable facts are adduced, ascribe
them to'a tYluBi~n ·of Satan and his angela, rather than
retnet any thing from their aylltem. ·
. .
Those that belong to the other cJaaa not oDly believe
illthe supernatural appe&r®Cill related in the Bible, but
U.O \he CODtmJlapOD of them down to the preunt time.
' Sfe DOW 1.
•..,....,CfiOII,
•die)'paemliJ nm too &r into theotJ. ~-. bJ
,.,....;., u ~ all thole eft"eca ofiN bus-
•t.doa. or ... ofiD8terial ...care, which ue UOC ~~
prebeDiible bJ the IIJldentancliap of the ~edlitr f1l.
men ; and especially by attaching more value and im-
,..taaoe to appeuucea from tbe invlaihle worJcl,. than
.......·to. them.. The latter point lomaa. ~
,...otIDJ object in &be preMDt UDdenakblgi I beg...
- - to keep lt iD view.
The HCODd ofthe~epartiea diveat. the holy ecriptura
ol &11 orieldalembeJJilbaun&. for thai tbeJdeDola1ute
.U. tho• bn~F~t for whicb tbeir •nligbt.tnednaaa eaa
W ao p&.ae;iD t.be lt01'eboate of &be:ir m.iu., lMtcilut
thq 4lo DOC ·aut.ita fumitun. .'l'Jiq FH toMrUill
....._ to the abatnet hiatory oC tJae Bible, ~till
.....teDdtnoe, bowe.ver, of their rational edt(~•
IIU IIUinla and morality tJsey NpZd u the chiefddlf;
....,.'Ctiviu revelation ia thuu.bject of~;;::
l'iully, the tbinl.party.believe Di8lther ill the BiWI
Dor in an invilible world; it i1 tothem aJMtter oCiDIUI-
fereace, whether, and in what manner they ahall cou.tin•
to alit after dea&b ; theire1emeDt ia Intellectual bow-
~ aDd the pleuaree of eeue, ad theJ Njeet 611
wldeh k DOt capable ofelucidation from the ,.,.._ ud
ill •ppro.zimate princlple1o· Thia ia properly the cJo.i.
J.'IJI08VC'ftO••
.... pility~·tie· pneat·clay.; the.ipirit oftheiimell il
.*lty tlaat pMiea tbeJn. in all.their ~.....that
p'llillllopby;whichial'lmlllinuDy.c"sngingtibthel'alldoai
illdtl8febdioD':.beliet, neuottlae moltcftdible.tbiDp,
il eatiiely (Jilt ofthe questiou. :1 • • • • • . •
• !' '• ·,·: ••• ,, .•
• .. i .' ~. '
. .
.·• l'he-iiltenticm·oftma"wo* eXtelldaiteelfto.~.tbete
fair,~ ud ij would be wf!]l if it were·~
The undertaking ia diilleak;. butaa duriug m.y Jtms.-
remarkable life, I have had a multitude of opportunities
fl·llllkiq: .akinda pC obaenatiollli; ·u. ~ 0"'-tuling
INri!WICIIi:....,~ ~ gUidedme•.tl•ti~.f'ctW "
'eb·JrerUW~ r* &'veryIb.JiterioUI JlltbJftC,a
W·lual,;:ilbir+wliND.allecl.lljloD.W:publiab.my~
..,.~UidiriuaplilqMge, to w~l~.ret\lle·~­
~-all,lda·wlahea,;sre ~ble. ap&\.~· ~
~kiD GOWa·Da!U,· and.cma.t .n:my.·~ ti9
mtpdne )hewa with :~- .and. . ~: WlpnjlJC)iQefl.
liilld:; . £believe tliat 1&.coutahw.a.:word m~~ i .M
·~ peaeDt :tlieie.an~..aingulal ~ in~
pfacea,:·bJ.: which: tile·.weU-:JileiN»IJ ma.J :be.
' Jed,.~
frOm the pum.it.of the one thing needM, mto by~
and errors. . . :
' ·I llhaij t.herefore shewthe Arlit of thete.~. that
&1DCIIilglt a thouauuicUeam's d~ ~~faa·
tlDtiv t.J., th~ aiJ1 continue to.~ 1011\e \t\w,-a\
I!(TUDI:CUOW,
undaiahle Jll WI ........ ........ . . . 8JIII-ri...... G
..,m.., 'With whim Satan -and his anpla han ~
110 clo. The ei1onDDa &bale, wJUchthe RamilhC2aaela
pndUed with tllae t:hiDfpfrom the wry:eomaMJDcemeut,
indueed the Reformers to set bounda to it.by ~ rl
faith ; bat experience teaches that they han wandered,
though leu clangeroualy, yet quite .. mr anthe oppoeite
cJiMediu &om the trlith, whichc::Umly pu:mue~·b.radi·
at path between the two ememe..
l··wOI prcwe ·to the second party, that ibere 8111
wry many important and appa.nmtly inuplicabbl pher
'll~ the eaUtel ~f w:hich they.aeek. in the. w,wl~ t4
!lpirita,·Iffevenin divinein11neuce, ba&which!&J;D_
foaaUI
.otelrin human nature, whole depdlaJa..-e:DOt.jlitiliet!8
auftlmently diaplayed, and perlulpa neft!',Will be.whollt
diiCOTered. Thw miatake of.theae wcill..;meli.uiog,.:'bat
ftGt IUBlciently flllfftoted people,. baa giveB iiae..18 the
mo•t mcmatrOu• ·fanaticlam and the moat·: IameDtdle
remlw. Hence, aecta have arilen, which.have been a
ahamt ·and diipMe tO·the pure..religion·of: ~; for
lnltanUI of whieh, I •refer the reader to a w~ .ofaiM
rallad 11 Theobald, or the Enthusiasts."
'rhe tlalrd and fuurth partie• mutually.a:gree in be-
ltfl"'"l neth11l1 orall thf•, but declare·dlat it.ia all eitJB
a·tl•ln•len ud det•idt, or the operation of' IIOiile secret
IMT&ODUC'l'IOM, 7
pnen of human aature, hi~erto concealed from '!-~·~
Bat u, notwithitatiding' all tbil, .there are neverthelesi
idl, the certamty ofwhichC&mw~ be denied,. th,ey ven•
1llie explanationa, ·which are ao·.-um, tbat u Ka~~tner
1111111 aid, "it they were true, they would;be atill more
11U11derfol~ tlwnrtiat they'aeek to explain away:• . , .
... ..... ~
All theae UiCD'eduloua' people are:actu&ted by . .
diferent motivea. '· . • · . . ·. . . ·
. -:i ::
The first ia, tbt·ayatem of Materialilm, wlaU* tllej
Jay u the foundation of their elucidation, both with re-
pd:to the whole Of-the seniibl4i world and t.Jie cmt»oreal
powera a!natare ...aapirit, and'whichthey hoW--~­
ftl'libly trUe. · I~·!·.' . . . ' ' ..
The ucond hu aupentit.ion and iti·deatruction· for
ita object. Themoit'senaeleis e:qlaDatiO'Ill:arehaaarcled.
·1111d, with: permii'sioD: be- it ap6ken, ·even liu, when they
no more bow how to help themaelves, if they 'CIUI:orut
thereby give a mortal thrust to what they consider u
npenti.tion. ·But what is auperatitiont ·What is enthu-
~1 At one' end of the chabi,·the religion of Jeaus
in its highest· pUrity, is enthuaiastic iupenltition : at the
other end stand the moat ~sel~ss, md the wildeit 'rev-
eries in the place of truth ! That holy guide throUgh the
o'Ncun P,.tb of thi8 life, which is intersecteU. ..0.\\\ ·"¥."~
I
IDUJ CIIWII'Otldl, JOU,.IDJdear reea... williUielJ~I~
ifwith a aprejudided.adl'elipedmind, thatloveaaa.
tnath. 'JOU do JLOt ppe ad pup at tha\ which ia woa-
dmfal .aui estnordmary, nor Nek to fathom tlae mew.
_,.ulriea ofthe 1IDMIID.world, butODlJto win tilep-..
0\11 priM, uacl 'to bow nothing butl•ua Christuulbia
cra.ci4ed. Should there any tbiDg ever occur to ;yoa
trc.lil die hidlieR aDil mJIWrioPI woa;ld, act towuda i&
10C1CJft1iDg to the rulea, which I ahalllaJ befi:n JOII a
tlaia book, ad then punue your path, without 1iDpri1ls
...M'6e CCIIIlUdera&ton of nch objeota.
'l'lae third motive il, IDally, o£ such a D&tme, tlall
w tilfitt uul c.lmlJ huten put i$... PrelenOawda.
yillou, and apparition~ M ipirit.t, ..., q£ ua ian.ible
world oCipirit.t, which ia the abode of departed IOUII,
edd·alpocl.aui evilqell and apirita. TheJPJOVethe
afaeeiDCt ottbe eoul after c1eath, with the full~­
.... olita pmen& e~.-ace, and the recollection of the
•bole oCita put.eanhly W'e ; and betides thil, alao, the
tnM truth of rewards and punilbment.t after dea&h.-
Bu& thia ia ua eye-101'8 &o certaia. people ; tb.eJ are weD
•ware what kind of Ca&e await.t them, it what ia uid
above be tnae. The~ are some, who suppose a kind ol
coatin.tion of their thinking part ; yet they do not be-
lieve in the recollection o£ their earthly lite, but cireaa.
Q/'1111 entirely new exittence, which it. a cle~ nobler
lM'faODVCTlOJr• 9
. IDil better than the pretent, and on which the life they
liMe led here bu no in1luence. But the whole olthil
ideail jut u worthleu, u that oftotal annihilation after
a.th; for itI am unable to'l'emember any thing what·
ner ofmr preHDt life,, ita varioua events, mywife, and
ehildren,andfrienda, myweakneueaandmygoodactiou:
I 1m no lougerthe IIUJle penon, butquite another being.
!JiijGoapclollllypreeetYeua &Om 11lch a t\:ttute state!
'llldeternal praiBe and thanks be ascribed unto him, that
'die Bible, the univenal judgment of allnations in e"'Y
ll't and. contiau&l unquestiona~le experience tatif)r
cBieccly to the contrary•.
· ···AD'·the ldeaaofpmoue otthle clue, an blfemaciel,
die Ptlselplea ot._,hich ue t'o'linded on Ma~
ll'l tnt ilttelnpt lhall therefore be to 81011ld, deitrO)",
adclemolilh this atrong and dangerouaholdofin1ldelitt•
10
.. CllAP. I. . . : ..
IIATBIUALISII EXAMINED AND R~WUTJ:D.
;•!
I • ~
.Amongat all utiona, tongaea, and.la~• ~
the beginning of the worlduntil,now, there baa not1N!a
one which denied preeentimelltl,Tilions1and~ppmtiona;;
~:il the coatmry, ifhereand there an·individualap~
who was so wise and rational as. to ~lieve no~·of'.~
this, he was abhorred as an atheist, who, after this lite,
might expect·severe punishment. . Of the ~:abom­
inable deceptiona,. delusions, aJUl·hoi'l1."ble 111~
which were,united. with the pure and s~ple tNth. ~
ti!'idarly amongst the heathen nationa, history ~
us with the most frightful examples, Our adorable Be-
~ deemer, Jesus Christ, then appeared, and became anuni-
versal blessing to mankind. He andhis disciples taught
divine truth in its purity, and every where strove agaiDJt
superstitionand the errorsof Jews andheathens, but they
did not oppose the belief in presentiments, visions, and
apparitions; on the contrary, they relate, that they had
themselves experienced things of a similar nature. I do
not think I need stop here to quote any instances o£ thil,
as they will naturally occur to my readers.
KATB.JALIIII EXAIUIIUID AJfD ltEI'U'l'BD. 11
TJ.ideawhieh theunivenal christian chui'chformed,
from the •eiYcommencement, of presentimental, 'riaiona,
&nclapparitioria, was. principally founded upon the fol"
lowing vieW ofthe subject. They believed.generally!in
min'fisibleWorld of spirits, which was divided into.three
difl'ment regions : heaven. or the place ofblelllleclnelllt-
hell. or the place of torment-and then a third place,
which the Bible calls " Hades, " or the receptacle of the
de~ in .which those souls, · which were not ripe for
eithet cleltimdion, arefullymade meet for that, to which
tluty han :mOst adapted themselves in thislife.• Butall
&hele regions had likewise their inhabitants : heaven.
1rbieh they imagined to be on high, above thestars, waa
the ~eat of the sn~e majesty.of God, and ita citizena;
were the hosts ofangels and blessed·spirits : hell wu
sitnated in the inward concavity of the earth, whither_
Satan, together withhis angels, will be finally banished,
whenhehasfurlahed his partupon earth, and it willthen
tMt._,theabode ofthe-accursed ofmankind. ·The idea·
~ fOrmed of the syttem of the universe was the Col"
loWing•.
·· They believed that the earth was. the-principal ob".
jtict of material nature ; that the snn and every radimt.
ldlir, which they Ngaided as nothing elae than rarefied
bOdin of·Ji!ht,:,exisied for the·earth's sake, and all of
• For a full explanation of this subject, see note 5.
the1e togetherfor man'ssake. .Totlie it&nthey.aerlbed
a great inftue:.oce on the earth and ita ~itamr1,and
they regarded them as the instruments by -~,Qcli
pveined physicalmdmoral nature. A.ecordin8.~·dleir
ideas, natua stood in the·centre of the Univene. 1111daU
heaven with allitamajelty, ·was obliged to r~voln·rotuid
the earth in twenty•four honn. . ..., "'> .....L
· · ·With respect to the inviaible world; .\hey kljbnll
that Satan with·his angels resided in the.ilir; .aacl W!•
greatand mighty influence over mankind ; but alao ~
tho holy angela were with and about the.~ noe,
that they protected them, and had. also WI~:eMil
them ;.that departed lOuis, according to their pecv.lillr
crheurilstanoei, might again appear, 'nil with~.~
yond a dGubt. . : .c~:.
· TheBiblehasnothingto objectto tb vie~ ~
by the uirlversal cbristiail church, and the .A~
and Platonic pldlosopby ofthe sc~s, :which,the:q ~
versally governed the reason of the learned, w.u.W
·perfectly contented with it.• And if here and there a
clear-aigb.ted individual, who thought for him~IJ; fowad
this or that point impossible,. or aome fervent ~
on the other side, introduced still more im.poaai)ili~
into this system ofthe universe and of spirita, it.~
• See note2.
lll8d a paper war and a charge of heresy, but the
iDcipalideal.itin ccmtinuedto stand firmly and canoDi~
nyin bothch~. the.eaatem Greek, aad the welt--
a. J..atin. M Bomiah; and with them, pretelltimenta,
lioDa,.·uu1 appariticma, which they. all IIIIQij1)ed to the
~ of God, to angela, and alao to departed aoull.
But ere loag, particularly: after tM age of Conatan•
ae tile are.t, the clergy gradually forgot Clariat'a
JLim 'precept, u Let the greateat amougtt JOU: ]M, aa
• Jeut,·lllltlhe that willbear'rW.e, let him .be u a aer· •
liltI '!. · in opposition to this, they UIUDled inc:reuiDg
onon, and even strove for the uDiveraal gcn;ernment of
e world. But having no worldly weapons, or at least
ry feeble ones, tbey'forged them~vea sphitual arms,
IIJ;tJJe i,UViiible IF~ pre.ented thai an inexbauftt"ble
IIIOI'f·: they anuined pow~ evenover evil spirita, and
oald cutthem mit;. for whenanyone waa.afllictedwith
cli8order ofa complil:at.ed nattire, which the phyaieians
a1d not explain, it was supposed he wu pos11esaed of
e ;Delril, ~the priest:mti.tbe aentfor to cast him out.
laare ,eta al,to witc'hea arid wizards, whom noJle could
main, and wh~ infiuence none could withstand but
e priests. Hades, which had been hitherto initself, an
JOCie devoid of indfering, unless the iD.difldual brought
piah and torment ill his own bosom into it, waa now
maformed i!Jto a .fiery furnace, in whichevet} de~e.tWJ.
I
'
14 IIATBaJALUII E:II:AifllUD AJID UPUTBD. }
10ul, that had not rendereditselfworthy ofcanoni~ ~~
(to which often nothing more wu requilite, than aliMN ·t
blind obedience, an outward ael£-righteoumeu, aacl a ·
persecuting of heretics,) mult of necen:ity be puriflel, t
like gold aod Iiiver. Now this was a particularly po1i11f ·
means or bringing even the mightiest monarcba, with .. i
their hosts, and every christian nation into obedience tl ~·
the clergy ; for the latter aaaerted. and it was uninnallJ
believed, that they really had the keys of purgatacy, ... ,l
that by prayers and masses for the dead, for which tlleJ l
took care to be well paid, they were able to deliver &111
poOr soul from it, and to auiatit in the attainment o£&111
,
bliaa of heaven. ·
These and many other additiOD&l motives, macJe it ,
a matter of importance to the clergy, invariably to tn.&
the powerful influence of the invisible world u~ ma-
kind, as one of the moat important points of &ith.. AM
here we arrive nt the principal source of the moat ........
leu and revoltiag superstition, which certaiDiy delllrftl
to be rooted out. But this is not accomplished by re-
fusing to gi\'e credence to undeniable facta, butbylbdias
the aacrecl truth in its genuine purity.
The christian system o£ the apiriblal aDd =ntetW
world described above, stood for fifteen-huudrecl· , -
IUWJaken. All at once, the moDk Copemicu .....
JU.'I'.'&U.LIIII EUIIIRED AND ••l!U'I'RD. 15
Jth I .. With a mighty band, he pUahed away the globe
llintbe eeiJ.Qoe ofcreation, fixed the suninitaplace, and
Ide.~ CoDner m.ake the.circmit of the latter in a year,
lll;:rev~,be. apon iti own axis in twenty-four hours.-,-·
'I thU ~te.-di~eovery, much that. was incompre-
Ull»lebeoaineintelligible, andmuch that.waa inexplic-
lle_, daaiomtrable. . The pope and the cletgy· were
ri1ck with ain&zement ati* ; they threatened cUr8e and
;coiiiDIIJniicat.ioo, but Copernicus had alreadJr made hil '
cape~ them-the'earth was nowin motion, and no.
~;.. ..,..·able, to.fliTest ita progreaa. ..Th~ CODIM!..,
..mae.Ofthe Copernican eystem have proved, .th4t the•
ri.mleandapprehension ofthe Romiah clergy was well-
UDded; .for·now, e.ver.y,fixed star waa by degreee· re-
lldedu &IIUJl,,allofwhiC.b w.ere-probably accompanied.
r tlaeir planeti, ,and consequently :the eanb became a
117-·inccmaideiahle point in the lmmenae and boundle11:
dqne. ·But whether thiuyatem ofthe world, so gen-
.U.ytecei~ be not atillaiUceptible of aome modifi.ca-
-~.willbeaeen intlle subsequent part of this work•.·
During this period, Luther and his confederates had
180 accomplished a mighty revolution in religion, with
.,.et to· the:articles.of faith of the christian ch~h.­
IMi·Holy 8eriptures again bec:ame the·aole criterion of
itk:JUM)·eonduct, and the clergy ofthe Protestantchurdi
r0oanced all claim to the government of the inviaible~
16 JUnaiALJitl BXOJJIBD AlfD urur••· ~~
world : they extmguiahed the flame. of parptol'f, ...:t
e.n1&rgedthebounda ofbell by addinglladeato it; DO..,.~
die ltate or plaee of purification .U uyloapr 'belilrM: :
, in, bat fm1r1 departed aoul entered immediately ..,.. •
the place of ita deet:ination, either heaven • .lieU. ·
'1 ·.-
lhall ahew in itaproperplace, that theycarrieclthil,....~
too fa:r: it wu wrong tomake a purga&ozy ofH.del, * •
it ... allo going too fa:r to do &W&Jwith It ~-·
purgatory. The Protelt&Dt e~etv. u .-, tlaUW -
theuuelvel, in other respeot.a. littleaboutthe earn•~
l)'lllem ; it waa Ng&rded u a nbject, which caUl...J
lktle bdluence upon the doct:riDel of the chriatiu ,_., 1
bat they were miatakeD; for•JMM«ting uao....._ia- ~
Ye1tipteci thia eyatem ltill tbrther, ud toand till& I 1
every where stood the teat. At length tbau peat-. 1
DeeCartee, Newton, aDd othen appeared, who by 6air ~·
mnntiona and dilcoveriea, definitlely c1ecidecl the ......
10 that the Coperniean system ianoweatablilhed...,_ I
all contradiction, in the opinion ofthe 1eamed, ..........
larly becauae all the caleulationa on the 0011111. Ill....
stan, made accordiDg to thia system, are fouad to be
JDOit correct.
The pope ud hie eonaiatory probably oaly ,.._
boded that thia Copernicansystem of the 'DIIi.-.._
be injurious to the ehriatian faith ; bat it wu DOW .....
ually evident, that they had not been deceived. '1111
IIATBSIA.LJ811 EX.liiJ11'ED AKD SBI'UTBD. 1'1
&ill.owing ideas now necessarily occurred to the consistent
reasoner. " Earth, with its inhabitants, cannot pouibly
be the chiefobject of creation : it is only an inconsider-
able little planet, a point in the immense universe : the
other spledid and capacious heavenly bodies, musthave
much more value in the eyes of the Creator, and their
inhabitants must likewise possess many advantages over
the human race. Can it therefore be, that the Son of
God, the LOGOS, by whom the universe was created,
look upon him.BIIf human nature, in this remote and in-
COIIIiderable comer of creation, and ennobled and eleva-
ted it to the throne of all worlds ? The whole invisible
world mOlt therefore now make, with the earth, the an·
Dual circuit round the sun, &c."
I entreat my readers not to let themselves be misled
by theee specious arguments. I will point out to them
inthe aequel, an immutable baais, which isin accordance
with nature, reason, and the bible, and on which their
faith may rest unshaken,· until at length we all attain
to sight.
The clergy either gave themselves no concern about
all this, or 110ught to combine it, as well .as they could,
with the dootrines of the church. TheRomanCatholic
hieraTchycontinuedtheirdominionovertheinvisible world
and the Protestant took no notice of it. Presontimenta
c
18 IIAT.BBIALISII EXAKI!IIED AND BBI'VTED.
visions, and apparitions were regarded either as a d.ecep·
tion, dellllion, andimagination ; atwhere the fact• collld
-not be d.eriied, as the work of Satan and his angels. By
·their decree, thatthe pious were immediately, after death,
received into heaven, and the impious plungedinto hell,
J ·the gate was closed· against the return of departed apirill
to tbia world.
The new mechanic system ofthe ·universe had give~~
human ~aaon wide admission to furtller investigation,
-and ·with ita mechanic laws of nature, it now ventmed
into tqe world-ofspirits ; and here originated the belief
in the iron neceuity of fate, that monstrou parent oflll
infidelity, free-thinking, and in a word, of the fai1iJ1s
away from the genuine religion of Christ, and of dread·
ful antichristianism. The maxim was now once :fOr all
established, that nothing existed in the whole of~
nature, but matter and power. Matter was invelrtiptad
in natural philoaophy, by all aorta of experimenta, and
chemistry, in particular, was very prolific in thia way.
By this means, some of the noblest, and, in human life,
the most. useful discoveries were made, so that th018
1Vho were engaged in these pursnita, are deserving of
eternal thanks. But as no other powers were discovered
by these investigations, than such as are peculiar to
matter ; orif the influence ofsecret powerswas obaened.
it waa immediately concluded they were also mate-
NA'l'EBJALUIII EXAMINED AND JLElUTJSD, ID
rial, only not yet dilcovered,o,nd that on making further
progresa, the traces of them' would al110 be found, which
wu generally the eaae ;-it wu irreverBibly established,
that there were no other powers than suchu were mate-
rial. TJM, following syllogism now fully confirmed thl•
proposition: all the powers of matter, includipg thoN
of the body, act also according to eternal and immutable
laws: ·the whole universe consists ofmat;$er and its pow·
ers; consequently every event, which occurs in the uni-
ftllle1 takes place aecording to E;ternal and unchangeable
lawa.
FruJD hence proceeded another equally appalling
IDd pregnant conclusion. If every even~ in the universe
happens according to etenw and unchangeable laws,
which are founded in matter, for an infinite variety of
end., the world is therefore a·machine ; that ia, its whole
olpllization ia mechanical ; but as every extraneoua
impetua given to a machine, disturbs its progress to-
warOa the .end designed, no beings can therefore exist,
wlio exercise influence ·on the material world : if such
beings were necessary for the government ofthe world,
and their eo-operation in nature, the whole universe
would be a very imperfect machine, and the supremely
perfect architect of all worlds, could not have thus
created it.
20 KA.TBRIALISM EXAMINED AND RJIFUTED.
But what was to become ofman, with his reason·
able soul? At first they went carefully to work upon
this point ; for the men who were the authors of the
mechanical system above mentioned, at least, those of
the greatest consideration amongst them, certainly had
not the intention of doing an injury to religion, nor did
they remotely foresee that theirsystemwouldserve for its
grave. Hence,though theyalso regardedmanasa wheelin
the gfeat machine of the universe, yet they still con-
tended for the freedom of his will; conseque~tly alaofor
libertyofaction, underthe regulationofreason. The con-
tradiction betwee.n liberty of action, and the eternal.
immutable laws of nature, they thought to have obviated
by maintaining, tltat God, before the foundation of the
world, had, as it were, formed a plan, according to
which, he would create and regulate this best of all pos·
sible worlds. He then received the human race into this
:world, who were to consist ofpurely rational and freely
operative beings. Now as he, being an omniscient God,
foresaw what every man and every being that was free
to act, would choose and do, he so formed his plan, that
every good and evil action fitted into it, and all at length
must neeessa~ly lead to the great end ofall creation.
The idee. of such a plan, and the regulation with
respect to the influence of mankind, who were free to
act, was called the system 9f th~: best ofworlds. A great
MATJ:B.I.U.IIJI J:XAIIINJ:D AND B.J::rUTJ:Do 21
11mber of thinking men, and honest divines contented
1emselves with this fig-leaf apron, and there let the '
lAtter rest ; but there were otli.ers, who discovered ita
akedness ; for they said, " H God has interwoven the
:ee actions of men into the eternal and necessary laws
fnatnre, they must therefore themselves be infallibl'
.nchangeable, and consequently take place of necessity,
nd the idea ofhuman liberty is a deception."
·This result naturally follows from the principle of
be whole : if the former propositions were correct, the
attermust be so too. But this is such a horrible thought,.
hat the friend ofGod and man shudders through all his
rame at the me~ idea ofit ; for in this case, all the sms
nd crimea from the fall ofAdam to the last sinner of .,.
umkind are acceptable to God ; for he has adopted them
1to the plan of the best of worlds ;-at least they were
ecetl8l!lY for the Creator's purpose, because he did not
void them, and is it possible to imagine any thing more
readful? Therefore when a person commits even the
reatest crime, he may think, this action is part of the
ian of the beat of worlds, otherwise God would not t.
ne allowed me to commit it ; and as he has thus in-
uded it in his plan, he cannot punish me for it." All
1e just and logical inferences, which may be deduced
om these axioms, are of a nature so infernal, horrible,
ild revolting, that I do not wish even remote\-, \.o \.o'l.'b.
22 IIAT&&IALI!III &XAIIINED AICD aarUTED,
u'pon them. Here all divine revelation, the bible with
all its·content., the mission of the Son of God,. and the
whole ofhia work of redemption ceases. There ia, 8l
once, an end to all religion : if there be a God, wehaw
nothing to do with him, and even were he himaelf the
nil-operating power of nature, it would be of no avail.·
beca01e he governs all thinga accordiDg to the etenaal
nnd unchangeable laws of nature, in which no alteratioa ·
can ever be made.
See, my dear frienda; it ia in thia way, that the ao
much extolled march of mtelleet leads inevitably to
deabuction, and earriea along with it multitudea of the
human race. This ia likewiae the non-religion of the
"Man of ain," over which he puts a religioua JDMk•
.The great Leibnitz waa the inventor of the be.t of
worlda ;-he probably did not remotely foresee, that
neh consequences would arise from it ; an Engliah
philosopher however, directed his attention to it.. He
therefore aat down, and wrote Ilia " Theodiee," a m...
terpiece or ncutenen, and profound thought ; but in the
end, itproves nothing further, thanthat even thegreateaa
attainments are unable to defend a bad cause.
I knowverywell,that not all ofthose, who believe in
the •ystem ofmaterialism,ate n.n~.a \a~u.\Wi\\.~
114TBUALIIK• .Elt4JUHEil .t.HD.::&KFUT&Do 21
icltali above.Dientioned: there ·are an in4aite number of
deqncting gaidationainit.on w.Jrlchmnlti.tnieaofration•.
...itandi buhhatanthese.gr&daticinaleaddownwarda
-~ ~.·~ae.tb.ey ~blfiteDcl tQ this
infernal irreligion, il undeniable•. Hethatil.accmsiste:Dt
reuoner, andil become a convert to materialism, cannot
4o ~; ~ reaaon infallibly lead& him to thil
appaUiDg reault; coileequently ·this mechanical ·eystem
iJ and must be totally fal-, and in the folloWing pages,
I will incontroYertibly shew that it ia ao.
j • • •
Think not Diy dear zeaden, .that.Jiam ln!JlMriri&
too f'ar,firom,tJae .U:.bject. · In O&"der to found·my.theory
VI the pneumatology .on an ~mutable baaia, I inu.t
neceuarily .puaue ·this path,_and .fil"'t.of all ·show .the
iaighty o'bjec:ticml that are raisedagainlt> it.
, I .
. If the world.be a machine, .whieh by its concreated
powen,. ·punues ita coune, alo11e, without U!f other u-
mtance ;-if eve~i God himself do not.co-operate with
it i neither.good. nor evil angela can have any iniluence
upon it. · Rationalilts take thia propositionfor granted;
aCcOrding, to· their assertions. alio, .there, are DO 811Ch
beings, and if~ were, they concern us as little, u
the inhabitants of uy of the planets ; what the Bible
ays of them ia metaphori~l,, ..
24 II.A.TBaJALIIII EXAMINED AND RBI'tiTJ:D•
0 my God, what frozen and comfortleu aophi1tr7
is this! It knows nothing ofany Father in heaven, nor
of a Redeemer: is it then a wonder, that the unhappJ
being that has espoUsed such a system, should lay vio-
lent hands upon himself?
During the time when these great phil010phen
were .hatching this horrible basilisk, they lP.ft praeDU·
menta, visions, and apparitions undisturbed, but the
common people continued to believe them firmly;-
dreams were interpreted, and haunted places abounded ;
ghosts and hobgobliDI were seen. The ignia fatuus
belonged alao to the class ofterrific spiritual beingl, aDd
witchcraft abounded every where. There i1 no doubt,
that this wild supentition produced dreadful results in
several places, but still, the people believed in God, ..a
in Jesus the Saviour of the world ; they prayed in faida
and confidence ; they feared hell and hoped for hea\'IID.
Now if these superstitious notioDI and this pioua ~
be laid in the one scale of truth, and the present aiR-
ing infidelity in the other, it will soon be 1ee11 whidl
weight the heaviest. Themorals ofthoae timescompued
with the morals of the present day, loudly teltiiJ,
that the Abbe Jerusalem wu in the right, wheD. he ..W.
" Rather give us the Spanish Inquilition, than pl'llllo-
minating infidelity."-May God pl'elen'e Ul from boda
oftbem!
IIATBBIALIIIII EXAIIUIBD A.D llBPUTBD. 25
The consequences of a gloomy superstition were
however more strikingly apparent than those ofthe sys·
lem of materialiam. It Wall noteven remotelyimagined,
that it infallibly led to the infernal abyss ; but on the
contrary, it was hoped and believed, that it would set
religion forth in its highest purity. Superstition was
lherefure attacked with the weapons which philosophy
fumiihed ; it waa cast down from the throne, but with
italso the bliasful and tranquilizing faith of the christian:
the latter of COUJ'IIe was not done intentionally.
-
Baltlulzar Becker in Hollancl, and Thomasius in
Germany, have immortalized their names by the over·
throw ofsupentition.
It is impomble for me to discover that sacred truth,
which treads the middle path, and overthrow superstition
and infidelity, unless I exhi.bit and then destroy the
baais on which all the antagonists of superstition, and
ofthe troe faith in conjunction withit, have erected and
slill erect their batteries.
The idea ofthe best of worlds had made it obvious,
that the physical and moral world, was governed merely
and eolely by ita own concreated powers, and that nei-
ther God, nor good nor evil angels, nor spirits had any
iufluencc over it. But they.wen~ 11tiU tux\\\e1: ·. fu.tt"i
26 MATERIALISJI I!XAMINED A.D aEPU'I'BD;
proved also, aa they thought, incontestibly, that accord-
ing to the meaning of the Bible, there were no spirits,
and no good or evil angela. The ~xi.tencie of a God
was still believed, but only from courtesy ; yea, there
were some even so ill-bred as to deny it ; this was how-
ever a consistent inference ; for if God has noinftuenee ·
over the world, we have consequently nothing to do
with him, and it ia very immateriai·to us, whether there
be a God or not ; for the world may have existed from
all eternity, and have been ita own God ! See, niy dear
readers, to what monstrous ideas human reaaon leads,
when left to itself!
The demonstration, that there were neither pod
nor evil angels, was founded on the following princi-
ples : :first, God and nature create• nothing auperffuo01.
Now as the nature of the whole visible worldis endowed
with its proper powers, itrequires no other ce-operating
being ; and ifit needed such a one, it would be no per-
fect work : but Qod can create nothing imperfect i -he
must therefore have created the world in the beat IUid
most perfect manner.
And secondly, if besides God, there·are other ra-
tional beings, they belong to another world, and do not
concern us. Now as these beings cannot be equal with
God) but must be finite and limited, they are therefore
MATBRULJIJI Ex..urlliBD AMD &EI'UTBD. !'I
liable to errors and mistakes, and thua tliey may be
uei.thet: perfectly good, .11or perfectly evil. There are
consequently no beings that are thoroughly good or
thoroughly evil.
· But man himselfu the greateatenigm&;-the think4 •
ing being within hi'm, with all its concreated and ~h~
mit fscultiea, cannot be defined as proceeding from the
pcnrera· of matter. CoD.iciOUJness, judgement, under·
llurdin!J; reuon, memary, imagination, &e. can never be
prudueedby.any piolsible:combination of these powers•
. · Here our materialistl find it difficult to bring tlrlll
tmbtmni ·'' IOlhething'' i1rto unison with matter and
pinn!r. .Leibniu's "principle• otindivisibilitj",.u and bfi
".predetermined harmony" were eompletely rejected aa
Untenable. There wa11·thenlfore no other expedient left,
than to take up the opinion, either that tlte eoul of man
was formed from the powers of nature, by the incom-
prehensibly wonderful structure of the brain, and was
~ still a result of material nature and its powers,
and also that at death it ceased to be; or else it was
maintained, that the soul is an immaterial self-existent
being that can oiuy act or have any influence on exter-
ul objects, tllrough the medium of the body, with which
it ia .united.
-·
28 JUTEB.IALJIII EXAIIJJII'ED AlfD B.J:FOTBD,
This is the moat general opinion amongat the ...:
tionalista of the present day ; and from hence they draw
the following inferences :
The spirit of man is not matter ; it can therefore
have no powers that are ascribed to matter; it cannot
occupy apace, nor act upon other bodies out ofita owa;
in a disembodied state, it is no longer obvious to the
aenaea ; it is therefore impouible for it to appear .a.
death; and if the soul be really immortal, it retaU.
nothing after death but a faint conaciouaneaa ofita pre-
existence, or recollection, until either at the resurrection,
or by some still unknown proceu in the beat ofworlds,
itregains a body, and thus begin• to act anew ; but whe-
ther it will then be able to remember ita past life ie
uncertain, and acarccly probable ; because it would iD
no cue be in po11e18ion of ita former organs, but ofncJt
u were totally different.
What melancholy ideas ! How unhappy wouW
mankind be if they were true ! But, God be prai8ecl,
they are not! and this I 11hall now, I trust, be able in·
conteatibly to prove. I therefore entreat the reader'a
cl01e1t atteDtion and moat aerioUI reflection ; and who.
eYer then thinks himself able to refute me, let him do
it : I will di.cus11 the matter with him, only let it 1»
dDDc in lUI amicable and candid tnan\\~t.
)CA.T.B&lA&ISK .BlLAKINED AKD ILE!'UTED. If
If the material world be so, as it presents itself to
ll' senses ;-if God view it in the same light, then is
1e system of universal materialism, with all its dreadful
»naequences immutably true ; for the whole demonstra-
on is logically just; it merely depends upon the cor-
lCtness of the premises ; but that they are fal1e, I will
od am able to prove.
If our eyes, our ears, and in a word, all the organa
f our senses, together with the brain and the nel'Ve&
rhere otherwise formed and organized, the whole visible
rorld would appear to us completely different to what
; does at present. Reflect seriously and maturely upon
IUs proposition, and you will find it true. If the eye·
rere otherwise organized, we should be susceptible of
ight, colours, forms, figures, proximity and distance,
II in an entirely different manner. Only think for a
1oment of magnifying glasses and telescopes : the for-
ler makes every thing larger ; the latter, every thing
earer. Now if our eyes were formed in a similar man·
er to these glasses, every thing would be larger ~d
earer than it now is. By means of glasses, which are
11t and polished in various ways, light and colours, and
very form changes its appearance : now supposing that
1e eyes ofall men were thus organized, all nature would
lCeive a different form. Apply thls to all the human
~nses and what will be the result ? certa.in\'j \\~\\\\:n.~
30 MATERIALISM EXA:\IINHD AND BEI"UTED.
else than quite a different world, and c01111equently all
our ideas and conclusions wouldbe wholly difi'ercnt. ·.
The human senses only perceive ·the surface of
things in space and time ; that is, in extension and me-
cession: no created spirit penetrates into their inwmd
nature, _except the Creator alone that made them. ·: .We
are limited beings ; hence all our conceptions are allo
limited. We cannot imagine to ourselves two thiugs,
much less a greater number, at the same time ; · we
must therefore be so organized, that all tJrlnga appear&8
us lqJtJratrly ; that h. in space; and ia IIICCtiiW.• .that
is, in time. Time and apace have therefore their origin.
·merely in our own souls·; out of us, in the being of llia-
ture itself, neither of them have any existence. Nowaa
every movement in the whole creation occurs in.time
and space, without both ofwhich no motion canpollii.blJ
take place, therefore allthemovements in the whole,c:m-<
ation, are merely forms of ideas in our souls. which do
not take place in nature: consequently all the SYJteml
of the universe, .even including the Copernican, ara
merely ideal forms. The creation in itself being.wry
different.
. I
God, the almighty Creator, views the universe asit
is in reality and truth; and in fact, Ht &loru; fOl' all
created beings are limited, and can therefore only fonn
JIA.'fERJ.U.ISJI EXAMINED AND REFUTED. 31
a ~unded idea of the universe, consequently not so as
it ia in reality ; ifthey venture to go beyond the limita
usigned them : they fall into monstrous contradictions
and error.
God baa created us men in auch a manner, and eo
orpni.sed 11.1 ae we are. It is therefore his will, th4twe
~ to ourselves the universe in the manner that we
do :-for us, thiB idea of it, is really the true one; and
all that we perceive through the eenaes, is not a vain
imagb)ation, but really founded on the nature of things;
our convictio~ is therefore not ideal ; but that we do
not v_iew thiJ1ga as they really are, that is, as God
feprda them, ia an eternal and incontestible truth,
All ideas which are founded upon time and space
are limited ; now as the eternal, infinite, and incompre-
hensible God knows no bounds, he does not regard the
world in time and space ; and as his view ofit is alone
the true one, the world is likewise not in time and space.
Fuitber, as that, which we call body and matter, occupiea
space and continues through time: and as objects have
each their ·separate.motion in 11pace, act upon each otlxer
bytheir powell, &c. and as time and space do not really
exist in the creation itself, but are only forms of ideas :
10 that which we call matter, power, and reciprocalin1lu-
32 MATBRIALISJI EXAIIIMBD AlfD REFUTED.
ence is mere human idea ; in reality, every thing il
otherwise. •
We will call that part of creation, which is obvi0111
to the senses, the visible world ; within this visible
world, we may and we ought to reason and judge, ac:
cording to the laws of time and space, and the mutual
influence of objects upon each other; here we may, *
we ought to esteem and prize the Copernican system ;
but as soon as we transfer it to the world of truth, and
seek to }>ring it into connexion with the influenceofGod
upon the visible world, we judge like a blind man does
of colours, and fall into absurdities. Let the Astrono-
mer quietly continue to make use of it as a mathematical
axiom, and to enlarge the visible creation by his inven-
tions anddiscoveries ; the ancient biblical representation,
and the idea, which mankind have formed of the ani-
vcne from the earliest age, that tho earth ltood in the
centre, and that the whole firmament moved round the
earth, u also that this is the moat important part of
creation, is to ua, true and satisfactory. Foras all motioD
can only take place in time a'!l.d space, and as time and
space have no existence in the province oftruth, so like-
wile no motion exiata there, but merely in our idea, Uld
• I C'<UJ easily suppose that my readers (rom all that bu
been said, will be Ktanfed, anrl think, what will be the end
ofit! only read quietly and altenlively further, and it will be
apparent.
loiATERIAL18Jil EXAMINED AND REPUTED. 33
therefore the :firmament mayjust as well revolve in twen-
ty-four hours round the earth, as the earth round the sun.
The Copernican system is founded upon the real exist-
ence of time, space, and motion in each ; but as all three
are not to be found in the realm of truth, the Copernican
system is nothing more than an easier method of solving
adifficult question. The ancient system of the universe,
in which the earth, with mankind, is made the chief object
uf creation, and in which every thing else revolves around
them, is the most natural and obvious idea to all men :
it it also the most easily united with the representations
of that world which is above the senses, and is thrrefore
the truest system for us; whilst the Copernican, on the
contrary, ha11 arisen from rational inferences, founded on
the reality of time and space, and is, therefore, not true.
Every reasonable man, who is in any measure capa-
ble of calm and impartial reflection, must and will find
all that has been hitherto advanced, undeniably true :
and should here and there, any one have any doubt or
objection !!till, let him state it : I will solve every doubt,
and answer every objection.
-Now what is the mechanic philosophical system,
-,.,.ith reference to the visible world 'I It is the onlyexcel-
lent means, which God has granted us, of knowing human
truth, or wnat i• true for us. But as soon as we ve\\\'ll.:tot
D
34 HATBBlALlSH EXAMINED AND BEF11TED. I,
with it beyond the bounds of the visible world, and aeek, :
by it, to judge of that which is in,·isible, and even ol
God himself: we fall into shocking contradiction&, IIDil
it is these that fonn the flaming sword of the cherub,
waving in every direction, which keeps us back. fioa
the gates of paradise. But if we seck to advance .aJl
further, and, led on by this mechanical system, either
deny every thing that is not perceptible to the eeoaee,
and consequently docs not bc!ong to the visible world;
or judge, even of God himself, according to the ruleaol
thinga that arc seen, and lay thia as eatabliahed IUICl
experimental truth, for the foundation by which to re·
gulate our life and conduct, we shall commit a sin,'Whie!a,
according to our Bible, drew after it the fall of SalaD:
for, by so doing, we make our reason the source of trutla,
and consequently a God. Now, from all that has '*n
1111id, the following proposition justly and natunlly
results.
God does not live and think in time and apace; with
him, there is neitherpast nor future; consequently, tbele
can be no (}UCHtion of any plan or concatenation of Cree
actions with fixed and immutable laws ; the whole idea.
therefore, of the best of worlds, is a childish conception,
which can have no place in the province of truth ; but
as we muat necesaarily form an idea on this aubject, we
rec~i•·e, in faitl1, the biblical ft\)"«MUUo\\ of the etenal
JtiATBaiALISK EXAMINED AND REFUTED. 35
counsel of God, and neither add nor take awayany thing
from it. The Holy Scriptures conform themselves, every
where to human'conception, but still, in such a manner,
u is most becoming God and troth, and most productive
or benefit to man.
The visible creation, consists of bodies that are un-
known to us. What we call matter and power, are ideas
peculiar to ourselves, which certain1y have their foun-
dation in those bodies, but which are in themselves, by
no means, so constituted, as we imagine them to be in
time and space. -Therefore, when we compare them with
machines, on which no extran~us influence may operate,
we greatly err ; for our visible world is closely united to
the invisible world : both mutually act upon each other;
the proof of this lies in our own natures. Our bodies
belong to the visible, and our spirits to the invisible
world; we do not feel with our senses, the substance of
our spirits, but we feel their influence upon our bodies.-
Now aa we find in our own beings, that a rational spirit
can act npon matter, and does so without ceasing, how
can any one venture to deny the influence of invisible
beings, angels and spirits, on the visible world ? ·· There
is even in onr visible world, a most powlllful, omni-
present body, a body, without which, the whole visible
"I"Orld could not exist, and would be to us a cypher, I
36 KAT.IUALII:II EXAMINED AND aEPt:TED,
mt•an, li&!Jt : we regard it as matter, are able also ill
various in11tances to treat it as such, and it is likewise
found in uur ideas in time and space ; and yt?t, it bu
prupcrticH, which arc completely opposed to the natlm
of 1111 other matter. Consider only the different intn-
"'~eting ray" of all illuminating and illuminated bodira,
which intersect cueh other in a million different ways,
without impeding each other in tht?ir direct course. I
Nhould bt: glad to ace that naturalist, who could satia-
liu:torily t·xplain this from the eternal and immutable
lnWK of mutter.
•
J.ight i,; the connecting link between the visible and
inviHihle wurld. The transition, from the one to the
utlwr, i11 thruul{h its medium.
Till'whult• uni\'l!fiiC .:onsists rntircly ofcreatcdbeinga,
c•at·h ul' whida, iH an expressed and n•nlly existing word
nl' Oml. All tht'IIC beings divide themselves into two
Jlritwipul t•hlMIIt'l; intu thinking, intrlligent, and suiCt'p-
tihlt• ,.pirit11, nnd into an infinite vnrit•ty of other things,
whic·h llfl' unknown tu us ll<'yond the visible world.
l"JIII'II~, nr tht• kinl(dum of 11pirits, again conaiat ol
\':&riuua "-lnth•, which always \'ary from raeh other, ~·
t·unlinl( tu tlwir dt·~rn·&·s of pt'rfertion, but all of whicll
•~•nt·u&ll• hlf{t'lht·r, und al't U})(IR each other. Into thU
JIATERIALISX EXAMINED AND REPUTED. 37
1 : world of spirits, man enters at his death ; and his hap-
i" piuesa or misery, depends upon his having improved his
time ofprobation or not.
Those spirits, or inhabitants of the world of spirits,
whoare, so to speak, on the borders of thewisible world,
and that stand next in conne:x:ion to us, are goop and
evil angela, and the souls of deceased men. The Holy
Scriptures expressly testify that, the former, the good
and evil angels, have influence over mankind, and over
the visible world, but without trenching upon the free-
dom of the will.
The system ofmaterialismmaintains, that the whole
universe is governed by eternal and immutable laws,
like clockwork; consequently, the freedom of the will
is a mere idea and delusion. Now I have shewn, in the
preceding pages, that the eternal and immutable laws of
nature are mere forms of ideas, founded on time and
space; but as the latter are merely modes of thinking,
so ar~ the former ; and, therefore, not only inapplicable
out of the visible world, but also in direct opposition to
truth; for we really and truly feel ourselves free, our
natures loudly tell us so, and even reason teaches i-5 us,
because the converse is incompatible .with the divine,
spiritual, and huma.p nature ; and is productive of the
most frightful results ; and, finally, the ~\b\e -ro.a.\."-\a.\."-'i.
38 IIATEJUALISJI ELUlllii:&D AJID R.BPUT:&D.
it on every page. God governs the world, through ev
class of rational free agents. His Spirit inclines the 1
·or every spirit, by representing to it what is suital
To all of them he gives laws, which are the foundat
ofeternal joy and blessedness ; but be leaves them
free choice, whether to obey them or not. Those t
do not obey them, are evil beings, whom he also lea
at liberty ; but his infinite wisdom and eternal l<1
knows bow gradually to overrule the conaequeacea
evil actiona, in such a manner, aa eventually to prod·
salvation and blelllingfrom them. These ideas devel
likewise a part of the great mystery of redemption
Christ : and here I could annex a long and import
diaaertation on the fall of angels and men, and on
return of lost man to the Father, by meau.s of the t
Chrietian religion ; but it would lead me too far f1
my eubject, I therefore take up my staff and proc
further.
·~ .
CHAP. II.
REMAaKS UPON THE NATURE OP MAN.
I now descend again from that height, where it is
impossible for the human soul to continue long, without
lleeoming giddy. But I was obliged to venture this v
lofty flight, in order to precipitate that monstrous idol,
Materialism, from the throne, and plate upon it theo-
cratical liberty.
From all that I have hitherto maintained, proved,
and demonstrated, the reader must not infer more than
is neees11ary to establish true ana genuine faith, and to
overthrow superstition. Such as the world appears to
our senses, such is it also to us in reality ; and as long
as we continue )Vithin the bounds of the material world,
the system of mechanical philosophy is a law to us, but
beyond these bounds, it must,byno means, be considered
as such.
The :Bible affirms, that good and evil angels or ,
spirits act powerfully upon us, .and upon the visible
world, and neither reason nor natute have a"\\.'i '1.\\.\wt
40 llEIIARXI UPON THE NATUB.E OF MAll'.
against it; on the contrary, the attentive observer occ.;
sionally finds undeniable traces of such influence, as wi
be seen in the sequel. But here I must, immediate]
on the outset, premise an important warning.
In our present state, our corporeal and physica
nature is ordered and organized solely with reference a
the visible world. In our natural state, with the ex·
ception of our own souls, we perceive nothing of tiM
world of spirits; and as our reason likewise can only
found its conclusions an the evidence of ~e senses, i&
knows equally as little out of itself, and from its on
sources, of an invisible world and its operations. It il
only divine revelation, and individual_ experience for-a
length of time, which teach us, that beings from the
invisible world, and God himself also, have manifestecl
themselves to the senses, and act upon our visibleworlcL
From these observations, it is clearly evident, that
nature and reason are by no means referred to the in-
visible world and its influence, and 'that the Holy
Scriptures, in all the testimonies which they give of thi•
influence, point us solely and exclusively to the divine
government, and its holy and all-directing providence.
The angels are all of them ministering spirita, sent forth
to minister to those that are the heirs of salvation,
Heb. i. 14, and also in other places to the same eft'ec:t;
&EKAB~S UPON THE NATURE OP MAN. 41
bot we no where find, even the slightest hint, that we
ought to apply to them in any manner, or pay attention
• to them: much less ought presumption, curiosity, and
adesire to know the future, excite us to enter into con~
nexion with the world of spirits ; this is even forbidden,
like divination and witchcraft. He, therefore, that seeks
presen~Jments, visions,. and apparitions, sins greatly.
They are exceptions from the rule, and to them we are
not referred ; however, they are, and will ever be re-
markable, and deserving of the most faithful, thorough,
and impartial investigation. The sequel will shew the
reason of this.
As soon as the system of materialism isJ>roved to
be false, and only of value in the visible world, being
totally incompatible with the world of spirits, because
the former is only founded on time and space, but the
latter by no means : so the reciprocal operation of two
things, which are remote from each other as to time and
space, is likewise impossible in the material world, but
in the spiritual wodd, not only possible, but natural.
To forebode semething, signifies the apprehension
of something remote, either in time or space, so that
the individual is more or less obscurely conscious of it.
When I say I forebode something, I infer from reason-
able grounds, that s.ome particular thing will occm, \)"'t
42 REMA.Il:KS t:rO!'I TilE :CUl"BE OF :YAN.
that it is taking place at a distAnce: by the words, I
han~ a fon•boding or presentiment of something: I ex·
press the feeling of the influence ofsome being unknown
'to me, that dt•signs to inform me of 11omcthing that hal
tnkt•n plncl.' at a distance, or sometl1ing future, that il
approaching. nut in order to shl.':llight upon this ob-
scure subject, let m1 examine human natun· a little more
elos~ly.
Tiw idea nf human nntur(', that had pre1.ioully
~l'uernlly pJ'('milt·rl, consisted in this: man was regardecl
as a ht·ing con~titutl'tl of hotly and soul ; the body wu
considered as a \'l'ry nrtifil'ially organized maehint,
which was st·t in motion and opl·ration by the '!lui.
Thi~ idea is also quit(' correct, accordin~ to the laws of
the material world, and the mechanical system which
pre\'ails in it; we §:annot, ancl we ought not, to re~rd
nur hodics in any other light.
Tiw soul was denominated spirit; of which how·
t·ver nothing furthl'r was known, than that ita operation
was felt: and this i11 also pl•rfcctly correct, for ita sub-
•tanec docs not belong to the mntl.'rinl, bat to thl'
spiritual world, and ('unnnt thcrcf'iJre be felt by us in
our present stAte: but ~IIW thcdt' extremely di.fFereat
!!uhstanccs, spirit and body, could J'('dprocally act apcm
f'uch other, no one knew. Elucido.tions were hazant.d.
&BIIABJtS 'UPON THE NATURE OP MAN. 43
but contradiction• opposed themselves ; faith was exer-
~. · c:iled, and re~n taken captive ; and this was the surest
~ Yrty under those circumstances; but now the path is
opened out to us, ao that at least we are come much
nearer the truth.
The science of Animal Magnetism, which had oc-
casionally manifested itself from the earliest ages, and
was brought into a system by Messmer, between the
years 1770 and 1780, but which, at the very outset,
met with the most profound contempt, in consequence
of the most extravagant charlatanry, and the •moat
shocking abuse which was made of it, was now investi-
gated by very able, impartial, and candid naturalists-
by men who really cannot be charged with the weakness
ofenthusiasm.
Those who are the best known to me, nre the late
counsellor of state, Bockmann, here in Carlsruhe, and
my never-to-be-forgotten friend, Doctor Wienholt, sur-
geon, of Bremen, who is likewise now no more. Bock-
mann, wasalso mywarm friend, and communicated many
observations to me with his own lips. To these mru.t
be added another credible witness, Doctor Gmelin, of
Heilbron : this very learned, and any thing else than
fantaetic or enthusiastic individual, has given to the
public his vezy striking experiments in sevcta\'10\U\\'\~.
44 REliARKI; l'POS TIIF. !fAT'CRB OP JIAX.
The late Doctor Wicnholt, had also collected his highly
interesting animal-magnetic practiceoftwenty yean,iDto
sc\·eral '·olumcs, of which he had published one or two
of the first, when he was overtaken by death. Seber(
the celebrated physirian to the Prince of Detmold,
suh~~Cquently completecl the publication of this work.
lleaidcll these, I have met with many professional, aad
ncm-profcssional men, in my various journiea, for whoee
incorruptible integrity, penetration, and strong &ttacla·
ment to the truth, I can vouch, from whom I hate
lean1cd things still more mysterioua, and such u are ia
the Jlighcst degree remarkable, but which are not ofa
nature to be made public.
To avoid all unnecessary prolixity, I will only here
aclducc such results of animal magnetism,'as are eertaiD,
and hcyoncl a doubt ; but if this be not sufficient for the
reu.dcr, let him attenti\·cly peruse the works above
mcntiuncc.l, and he will assuredly be convinced. But
before I procct'd further, I must give all my readen a
IICrious caution : Animal Magnetism is a very dangerous
thing. When an intelligent physician employ• it for
the cure of certain diseases, there is no objection to it;
but as soon u it is applied to discover myateriN, to
which we are not directed in this life, the inclividaal
cummita the sin of sorcery-an insult to the uuVeltJ ot
JJc/U'CD.
REKARKI UPOK THB NATU&E OP MAN, 45
When a person of either sex is gently stroked,
according to certain·rules, by another person of either
aex, over his clothes, (for it is not necessary to undress,)
andwhen this is frequently repeated, many fall into what
ia called the magnetic sleep, (Somnambulism;) some
earlier, others later, and many not at all. In this state,
all the senses are at rest ; no noise, no sudden entrance
of light, no violent shaking can awake them, and the
body is as it were dead, with the exception of those
motions, which are necessary to vitality. The inner
man enters into a more elevated, and very agreeable
atate, which gradually increases, the more frequently
magnetizing, or stroking, according to certain rules, i11
repeated. The exaltation of the inner man rises in
many persons to B'tlch a height, that they come into
connexion with the invisible world, and they very fre- v
quently reveal hidden mysteries, and also remarkable
things, which are taking place at a distance, or will
shortly happen.
The following circumstance is very striking, and,
in fact, astonishing. During this m3.o<7llctic sleep, the
individual has not the smallest perception of the visible
world; he only sees the person who magnetizes him,
and who stands in rapport with him, not however with
the vinal organs, for they are eitherconvulsively closed,
or ifopen, the pupils are as much dilated, u.oa i\\ a. Cl)\\\-
40 KB~AKXII UI'ON THJ:: NA'l\:&B 01' MAllo
J'letc r.,rutta ~~~rena. 1 have myself held a lighted candle,
immeuiatdy bcfure tlae eyes of u ))Cnton in tbie nate,
but the pupil11 continued extended aud immoveable, .._
perceived nothing what.ever of the light; hut the iadi-
vidualsccs the penoo who mognl-1.illel 'him, frum the
region of the pit of the heart, iu a luminoua azure nllli-
ancc, that surround¥ the whole bo1ly like a glory. Wi..
many, the exaltation of the inner man rile• au high, till&
they read, mo11t distinctly, the thought• and idea wlaicll
pall in the miud of their ruagnetiJt:\!r.
1 have swd that these person¥, in thl->ir elevated
Htat.e, are Wlcouadc1u11 of any thing in the visible world.
P.Xcept their m"f,'IWtizer; but,aa11oon WI the latter pl.cet
them in rapport with another pcr110n, by mcana ofcertaia
j,'l'BIIpingll of the hand, they immediately 11ee tbia o&ber
JX!raon, in like manner, not with the eyes, but from &be
region of the pit of the beort; and in the same way, t11ef
Jlercllive also, diKtinctly and correctly, what that penoa
thinks and imagines at the time. In thla state, the
Homnumbulist h111 a. most lively recollection of hie whole
life; all the faeultk'l uf hill aoul arc in a 11tate of elna-
tion, hut 111 11oon u be awakes again, he ia toeally
unconscious of it.
Peraooa who have long been magnetized. wboJaaye
often bc:en in a "tate of IODlDambuliun,aad ba•e auaiDetl
REMARKS 'UPON THE NATURl: OF MAN. 4j
to a high degree of inward vision, read and recognize
Idrawings and pictures which arc held before the pH of
their hearts. That there is no deception in this matter,
which is in~omprehensible according to our common
mode of thinking, is evident from the repeated experi-
ments that have been made ; so that there is no longer
any doubt of the certainty and correctness of the fact.
Gmelin, Wienholt, Bockmann, &c. have made these ex-
periments so frequently and 80 carefully, that the thing
may be received88 an infallible truth, founded in nature,
and from which corre.ct inferences may be drawn.
A well known, learned, and estimable divine, saw
these experiment& in Hamburgh; they appeared to him
to be 80 remarkable, and brought to light so much of
what was before mysterious, that he published a very
interesting little book on the inward man: but the fol-
lowing account, which is contained in a Strasburg paper,
called the Courier of the lower Rhine, number 31, 12th
of M!irch, 1807, exceeds in remarkableness, all previous
experiments upon this subject. I will therefore insert
it verbatim.
"The history of the somnambulist of Lyons, says
the Journal de Parle, pl81tents an assemblage of such
striking facts, that we should be inclined to regard the
whole 88 charlatamyand deceit, if credible e~e-~tl).~'i>'~>'!.'~>
48 REMARKS UPON TliE NATURE OF llA:!II.
had not vouched for the truth of it. People may smile,
on hearing it asserted, that an hysterical woman poa-
sesses the rare gift of revealing future things to thoae
with whom she stands in rapport, but such is the case;
the wise man believes without precipitation, and doubtl
with caution. M. Pctctain, an esteemed physician in
Lyons, who has long watched the progress of the dis-
order with which the lady is afflicted, is occupied in
arranging the facts he has collected, and in preparing
them for publication. Previous to the appearance of
M. Petetain's announced work, we will adduce the
following facts, which are related by a rt>spectable eye-
witnc~s, Mr. Ballnnche.
"The catalt>psy of a lady in J.yons, had been, for
11ome time, th<' subject of com·crsntion in that city: and
}1. Pctitain had already published several ,·ery snrpria-
ing facts rdative to it, wht>n ~lr. Ballanche became
desirous of being un t•yt>-witness of the astoniahing
effl'cts of this disorder. He chose the moment for visit-
ing this lady, when she wa!l approaching the• crisia. At
the door he learned that not every one, without distinc-
tion, was permitted to approach the patient's couch, but
that she must herself grant the pennission. She "·aa
therefore asked if she would receive Mr. Ballanebe ; to
I
r REMARKS UPON THE NATURE OF MAN,
which she replied in the affirmative : upon this he
1 approached the bed, in which he saw a female lying
~ motionlesa, aad who was, to all appearance, sunk into a
profound sleep. He .laid his hand, as he had been in-
ltlucted, on the stomach of the somnambulist, and then
began his interrogatories. The patient answered them
all most correctly. This surprising result only excited
the curiosity of the inquirer. He had with him several
letters from one of his friends, one of which he took,
with whose contents heimagined himselfbestacquainted,
and laid it, folded up, on the stomach of the patient,
He then asked the sleeper if she could read the letter?
to which she answered, yes. He then inquired ifit did
not mention a certain person, whom he named. She
denied that it did. M. Ballanche being certain that the
patientwas mistaken, repeatedthe question, and received
a similar answer in the negative ; the somnambulisteven
appeared angry at his doubting it, and pushed away the
band of the inquirer and the le~ter from her. M. Bal-
lanche, struck with this obstinacy, went to one side with
his letter, read it, and found to his great astonishment,
that he had not laid the letter which he had intended to
have selected on the stomach of the sleeper ; and that,
therefore, the error wa.S on his side. He approached the
bed a second time, laid that particular letter on the place ;
and the patient then said, with a certain degree of satis·
faction, that she read the name which he had {lTeviously
mentiOIJed.
60 llEtiHS 'UPON THE II'ATVaE OP II&••
'1'hi8 experiment would, doubtleu, baYe uti1
mott men, but M. Ballanehe went 11till further.
had been told that the patientcould tee through the cil
est wb11tanees, and read writing and letter• tbro
walll. He uked ifthis were really the cue, to wl
abe replied in the affirmative. He, therefore, tAK
book, went into an adjoining room, held with one bl
a leaf of thie book again•t the wall, and with the ot:
took hold of one of thole that were preeent, who,joU:
banda, formed a chain, which reached to the patient,
whose etomach the laet penon laid his band. The pat
read the leave• that were held to the wall, which 11
often turned over, and read them without mak.iug
emaUeet error.
Tbia ia a faithful and aimplc relation of what
Ballanehe uw. An infinite number of objectiona 1
be br~t againat it, but a hundred thousand aubatu
argument. cannot overthrow one single fact. The 1
atill livca, ia acen by many impartial persona, and
long attended by an expert and respectable physic
who atteata the same. The individuall give their JUIII
Who ia bold enough still to deny it?" So far the Stl
burg paper.
Thi1 narrative contain• nothing that ia not c
.firmed by numherk
..a experimentl ; one circumata
i1, however, remarkable, that the. \u\1 \-a(\~
R.EIIAB~S \JPON THE NAT\JR.E 0.11 .IIA.N. 51
lead at a distance, without coming into immediate
contact, when a line of persons take hold of each other's
banda, the first ofwhom lays his hand upon the pit of the
beart, not of the stomach, which has nothing to do with
the matter, and the last holds the letter: however, she
neither reads through the partition, nor through the ··'·
wall, but through the soul of him who holds the book
or letter. By a aimilar connexion or chain, electricity,
or ths electric shock, is communicated. All this is still
obscure, but in the sequel it will become clearer,
Equally remarkable, and perhaps still more im-
portant, is the observation, to which all confidence may
be attached, that somnambulists, when they have at-
tained to a certain high degree of clearness of vision,
manifestly and distinctly perceive the thoughts and
ideas of him with whom they are placed in rapport.
He, therefore, that intends to magnetize another, should
be, himself, a person ofa pure heart, ofpiety and integrity.
Amongst so many experiments of this kind, I will
only adduce one, which Gmelin relates in his work
above-mentioned. He states that in the year 1780 he
went to Carlsruhe, to collect facts relative to magnetism,
and found what he Wllf in search of. He was told there
was, at that time, a 80mnambulist there, whose inward
vision was so clear, that she ~ould distinctly tea.d. 'N\\.a.t
52 REMAB.JI:B UPON THE NATURE OP MAW,
passed in the souls of those with whom abe was placed in
conncxion : if he would therefore bring the patients,
whom he had then under cure, distinctly in auccesaioD
hefore her, she would tell him what his ideas were. He ·
followed this advice, and found the fact was really so:
Rhe told him distinctly every thing that he im~ed.
Another individual ofgreat integrity, :snd to whom
I am much attached, told me that his wife had Once a
houst•kecpcr, who had also been magnetised on accowrt
of illness, and at length, during her magnetic sleep, had
attained an extraordinary degree of clearness of vision.
In this state she had communicated remarkable and im-
portant discoveries concerningthe inrisible world, which
were in exact accordance W!th a work of mine, entitled
" Scenes from the World of Spirits," although she had
never seen my book, nor knew, nor could have known of
its existence.
She brought intelligence from the invisible world
respectingcertain important personages, enough to make
the hearer's ears to tingle. She once 83id to her mutn
in the crisis, " your brother has just expired at M~­
burg." No one knew any thing of his illneu, and,
he11ides this, Magdeburg was many miles distant. A few
days after, the news arrived ofhis death, which exaetly
agreed with the prediction.
REKARKS UPOH TilE NATURE 01' IIAN. 53
According to our:common conceptions ~f human
aature, .the fact is astonishing, incomprehensible, and
most remarkable, that all somnambulists, even the most
rulgar and uneducated people begin clearly to recognize
their bodily illness, ~d even prescribe the most appro-
priate medidnes for themselves, which the physician
must also make use of, if he wishes to gain his end.
Even ifthey do notknow the names ofthe remedies, yet
they describe their qualities so minutely, that the phy-
sician can soon ascertain them. In this state also, they
speak High German, where this is the language of the
pulpit, and the written tongue.•
It is_
also very remarkable, that somnambulists who
have often been in this state, and at length attain this
clearness of vision, arise, perform all kinds of work, play
on an instrument, if they have been taught music, go
out to walk, &c. without their bodily senses having even
the smallest perception of the visible world : they are
then in the state of common sleep-walkers. Thus it
happened, that while I was at Bremen, in the autumn
of the year 1798, a young woman came to me to ask
advice of me respecting her eyes: she was a somnam-
bulist, and had herselfdecided upon consulting me in the
• In most parts of Germany the middle and lower classes
speak Low German, which,varies considerably from the written
lllDguage.
54 REMARKS UPON THE NATURE Ol' KAN.
crisis; her mother accompanied her, but she awoke in my
presence, and I .was therefore obliged to prescribe the
appropriate remedies alone, and without her assistance.
All these incidents, and- other~ still more wonder-
ful, may be found in the writings of the above-mentioned
authors. The most eminent physicians, and, generally
speaking, every learned and rational' thinking person,
who has had the opportunity and the will to examine,
withprecision,theeffects ofanimal magnetism, will attest
that all that has been now advanced is pure truth, and
confirm it by their testimony. But how is it that no
one has hitherto attempted to draw from hence those fer-
tile inferences, by which the knowledge ofhuman nature
might be so much increased? To the best ofmy know-
ledge, no one has yet done so. Truly, so long as ma-
terialism is considered as the only true system, it is
impossible to comprehend such wonderful things ; but
according to my system of theocratic liberty, the whole
I
is not only comprehensible, but we are alsoled, by mag-
netism, to the most important discoveries, which before
were only mysterious enigmas. I entreat a candid and
impartial investigation of the following conclusions,
Every naturalist knows,and itis a geneiauy acknow-
ledged truth, that there is a certain extremely rarefied
and active fluid, which fills the whole creation, so far 11
UJIA&Itl VPOX THB XATVRB OF MAX. 55
we are acquainted With it. We will call this fluid rare·
lied celestial air, or in one word, ether. Newton was
~Cquainted with it, and called it Sensorium Dei, the or-
gan ofDivine seDBation. Euler believed that the bodies
oflight gave a tremulous motion to this fluid, which ex-
tended itself till it reached the sight, and thus formed
the light : which opinion I also regarded, for a long time,
u the moat probable, but on close examination I find it
impow.'ble. The million different intersections of this
tremulous motion must neceaaarily confuse their direc-
tion. Even the definition of sound, by the progressive
motion of the atmosphere, is untenable: for ifwe atten-
tively observe how many thousand tones, sometimes all
atonce, and at another, following each other in the most
rapid succession, aredistinguished bytheear ina yariously
composed concerto, each of which tones must therefore
occasion ita appropriate motion in the atmosphere ; I say,
howcan such a material motion be possible, without con-
fusing itself a hundred, nay, a thousand times?
It is also acknowledged, further, that this etherial
fluid penetrates through the most compact bodies, so that
it fills all things, and is itself perfectly penetrable; for if
it were not so, it could not penetrate through the densest
bodies. Light, electricity, galvanism, and perhaps also
the magnetic power ofiron,are veryprobably nothing else
th.m difFerent exhibitions of this one and the a&m.e ~'l,\.\\..
56 BBMABJI:S UPON THE NAT11B.B 01' KA.lf,
Now, as this ether, according to'our human ideM.
' fills time and space, undeniably acta every where u ma-
ter, and who knows if it be not the living prineiple D
plants and animals ; but, on the other hand, aleo poe-
sesses properties, which are diametrically at variuce
with materiality: for instance, its penetrating ~
the moat compact bodies, being itself penetrable, cauaiJII
a thousand various alternate operations of the l'e1llCitS
bodies upon each other, which the moat refined coa-
necting medium could not posaibly produce, &c. I there-
fore conclude, with. ceJtainty and fum conviction, that
this ether, this luminous fluid, is the transition from the
visible to the imi.aible world, and the medium betweee
both.
All physicians and scientific men agree also in thia.
that there is, in the brain and nerves of man, a subtle
fluid or power, from which all motion, life, and leDI&·
tion, and consequently, also, the operations of all the
five senses proceed; and this view of the matter ia per·
fectly correct, no man of intelligence denies it; except
that one calls this fluid power; another, nervous aeui·
bility ; and a tlunl, the animal spirits. The ancients
denominated it Arclueus, and ascribed to every organ or
tht! body its peculiar a.rchamm. That this powerful
principle in the brain and nerves is nothing elle tbaa
t•t!Jer, the luminous fiuid, the medi\U\\~'- ~ ...-...
BEKAB~S UPON THE NATU&& OP .KAN. 57
Ide and invisible world, is rendered incontestibly evi-
dent by all the experiments ofanimal magnetism, as will
be .W.equently shewn.
The brain and the nerves of man are filled from
his birthwith this ethereal fluid ; they attract itto them
from its material side, and make it their own, so that it
ia identified with their internal formation and arrange-
ment: eo far, man has no advantage above the brute.
But something is·now ~ded to man out of the invisible
world-the rational thinking being: the divine spark
then unites itself, firmly and indivisibly, on the spi-
ritual side of this ethereal fluid, with it ; and thus it is
possible to think how the 9pirit ofman can act upon Iris
body, yet still it is not comprehensible; because the
beings of the spiritual world, to which our spirits belong,
are not obvious to sense.
But in order to speak with greater precision, we
must divide man into three different parts, mutually
united~ each other. First-The outward mechanical
body, which has no material preference above the brutes·;
or, at least, is not essentially different from them : by
this body, the man is united with the visible world as
long as he lives. Secondly-The ethereal fluid, which
is, properly speaking, the corporeal principle of life,
whicb the m&Il bas in common with the b~tet., \\.\\.~
58 RE.IIAR.I:I UPON THE NATU&B OP MAN.
which may be called, abstractedly, soul, (anima---.Di-
maus). Thirdly-The immortal spirit of man, whida
is peculiarly created after tl1e image of God: and on this
account stands in this singular connexion with the mate-
rial world, in order that it may strive for tl1e re-attain-
ment ofits lost inherent dignity.
The ethereal fluid and the spirit together, which, in
eternity, make inseparably one, I will in future call the
human soul, to distinguish it from the animal soul ; in
the sequel, all tl~s will be clearer, and become romin-
cingly certain.
The human Koul is present in every part of ita body;
it is COIIRCiOUS of itself in e\'t'ry part, according as the
Ol'f:,r:lns of the body give occasion ; it sees with the eyea,
hears with the cars, smells with the nose, tastes with
the tonbrue and palate, and feels with the whole skin, or
the whole superficies of the body. All this it has in
common with the animal soul ; but there is aomethiDg
more superadded, which gives it a rank far difterent ad
more ele\'atcd thnn the brutes: it is an intelligent being
that is capable of knowing and loving God, and of ripen-
ing to an angel, but also ofbecoming a de\il. Considered.
therefore, in this point of \"icw. it is a citizen orthe world
of 11pirits, and c:w also be brought into conncxioa with
tllrm.
KEKARXS UPON THE NATURE OF MAN. 59
The human soul is invisible to us in our natural
state; but those that are in the ma,anctic sleep see it
like an azure radiance, which surrounds the whole body
to a certain extent, so that every man has around him a
psychical atmosphere; h,ence it is, also, that many who
are stone blind, can feel near objects without comfflg into
contact with them. What is called magnetizing is also
performed solely in this atmosphere, by which operation
the wonderful effects ofmagnetic sleep are produced.
The human soul is directed, in the natural state, by
the nerves, wherever feeling, consciousness, and motion
are necessary. It appears to have the principal seat in
the brain ; but by magnetizing, it is more or less de-
tached from the brain and nerves, and consequently
becomes, more or less, a free agent; for, as the clear-
seeing somnambulist does not see with the eyes, but out
ofthe region of the pit of the heart, and as this is always
the case, without exception, it is clear from hence, that
the human soul ofitself can not only see without the aid
ofthe body, but also so much clearer than in its fleshly
prison, nor does it stand in need of our material light;
for magnetic sleepers read what is laid on the pit of the
heart, and the contents of closed letters. Nay, they can
read at a distance, when the book or writing is separated
from them by dense·and opaque bodies, as soon as that
which is to be read, is held by a. person, witb. v.~b.()U\\\•e
GO BE»AR~S CPON TllE NATVBE OF MAN,
11omnambulist stands in psychical contact orconnexion,oC
which the above-mentioned Lyonesc lady is an instance.
The human soul, in this state, not only seea but
also feels every thing more acutely, than in its natural
waking state, without requiring for this purpose any one
of the bodily senses ; but it is very remarkable, that it
is not !IUaccptible of the smallest thing belonging to tbe
,·isible world, except when brought into a psychical
cuntact, connexion, or rapport, which is effected when
another person is magnetically brought into unison with
the suul of the magnetic sleeper, by certain graspings of
till' hand, so that both touch each other; the somnam-
buli~t can then, particularly when he is in a \·ery exalted
and clear-sighted state, perceive every thing that the per-
son thinks, suffers, feels, and enjoys, who stands iu
councxion with him.
Nuw, as these arc all ofthem acknowledged truths,
it is astouiahing and almost incomprehensible to me,
how it is possible that 110 many great and thinking men
have nut deduced frum these experiments the most
weighty and pregnant truths; for, frum hence, just and
luKical inferences may be drawn, which ure of the highest
iiii(Wrtunce to the science of souls and spirits, and to
religion likewise. We will ll'Jr&Uc our path, and then
lll!t: whitl.cr it M"ill lead us.
&EHARKS UPON THE NATURE OP MAN. 61
Itis indispensably necessary, that the rational spirit
of man which is immortal, and proceeded forth from
God, should have an organ by which it can act upon
other beings, and they in return upon it; without this,it
would have no knowledge ofany thing·out of itself, and
would be itself a pure nonentity to every other being.
Now this organ is ether, which is indestructible by any
natural power, and is eternal and unchangeable. The
spirit, during its sensible existence upon earth, torms to
itself a spirit-Gal luminous \'4dy, 11ith which it continues
eternally united.
The m3oanetic facts and experiments above stated
prove, to a demonstration, the existence of this spiritual
luminous body, or the human soul: they further prove
that this human soul has need of its gross and animal
body, solely with reference to its earthly life, in which
man must necessarily stand in reciprocal operation with
the sensible or material world, but that it is able with-
out it to think and feel, and to act upon others, both
near and at a distance, in a much more perfect manner,
and is also more susceptible of suffering and enjoyment.
This conclusion must unquestionably arise in the mind
of the impartial observer, when he assembles all the
various exhibitions which magnetism produces, and then
calmly and rationally reflects upon them.
fj2 &I.JIA&~I CI'O!i TJif. !iAil:ar. Of IIAK.
If the human 110ul during its existen~ in its mate-
rial brxly, frtJm which it is not entirely detached, be
capable (,f11uch "·ondcrful things; what will ita capability
be when tot.!Jy 1eparawd from it by death! Let the
n:adcr reflect upon this. In dying, the person lo1ea hil
colliiCiou~>ncss, he falhl into a perfect trance or•profoUDd
11«.-ep. A1 long as the mau of blood is still warm aDd
not ctmgealed, all the members of the body contillue
pliant; and 1111 long as this i11 the case, the soul remailll
in it ; but as 110011 WI the brain and the nerve• loee their
WIIJ'Jnth and become frigid, they can no longer at~t the
ethcrcal part of the Houl, nor retain it any longer; i&
thercfiJrc diHCngagcs itself, divests itself of ita earthly
lmnd11, and awuke11. 1t is now in the state of a clear-
NCcing magnetic sleeper, but being entirely 1cparated
from the lmdy, it!! stutc i11 much more perfect: it has a
COIIIJllctc recollection ofits earthly existence fnlm begin-
ning to cud ; it remembers those it has left behind, and
can fonn to itsl'lf a very clear idea of the viaible world,
of which it iN now 1111 longer IIUICeptiblc, wh.illt on the
contrary, it i11 consciou11 ofthe invilliblc world and ita ob-
jl!Ctll: numcly, that 11art of it to which it belongs, or to
which it huN here adaptt.>d itllclf. The candicl inquim
will caNily lind thut all this follow• logically and jUitly
frum mal(nctic experimcnta, if he be acqua.illt.ed with
them, umlliuly considers them.
REMARKS UPON THE NATURE OF IIAN. 63
The objection may, and doubtless will be made,
tJJat it is still not altogether certain that the somnambu-
lilt, in a state of clea.r-sightedness, makes no use what-
ever ofthe brain and nerves in the ideas he forms. The
1111wer to this is, that he certainly does not use his eyes
for the purposes of vision, and that he makes just as
little use of the other organs of sense for the purpose of
feeling: now, as the brain is" excited merely by the im-
pressions ofthe outward senses, it is impossible that this
am be the case here. However, in the following pages
facts ~ be stated, which undeniably confirm my asser-
tion.
The somnambulist has no perception of any thing
in the visible world, with the exception of the souls of
those individuals that are brought into a corresponding
connexion, or into rapport with him: through these he
learns what passes in the visible world. The soul after,
death, enters into connexion with those that bear the
greatest affinity to its own nature: if it enter into this
kind of contact with others, it feels a pain, the extent of
which corresponds with the degree ofdifference. 0 hap-
py they that have approached so near to the character
of the Redeemer, as to come into connexion with him,
that is, attain to the felicity of beholding him ; they will
then be in communion also with all his saints ! In this
manneralso, those friends, who muchresembleea.c\\()\.\\~'t
64 REMARKS UPON TilE NATURE OP HAl\'.
in their moral character,will there abide together, in eter•
nnl connexion and harmonious union. From the pre-
ceding observations, we may therefore compl"P.hend wba&
will be the nature of communication in the world fD
come. The somnambulist reads in the soul of him with
whom he is placed in rapport ; there is no need of Ian·
guage for the purpose, and such nlso is the case after
death, the one rends in the soul of the other.
We have to thank animal magnetism, which was dit-
covcred about thirty years ago, for all these importaat
dcn·lopemcnts ; but the following arc not lcso~ important
and instructin•.
Those persons in particular, who havl' ,·ery irritable
twrn•s and a lively ima:,rination, arc very soon tranalated
by animal magnetism, into this state of somnambuliiDl
and clearness of vision, by a regUlar and gentle stroking
uf' the body. Dy means of this discovery, it is now
nscC"rtaint'd, that nil the hysteric fits of women, as well
a8 hypochondriachism in men, are nothing more or les.~
than a specit•s of somnambulism, only that it doea not
arise from artificial manipulation, but from a debilitated
cnnstitution.
Therefore when a person falls into fiu, either with
or without COIInUIIions, 110 that he loaea hiJ CODaeioUI·
B.BIIAB.KI UPOK THE NATURE OP llANo 65
s, and sees visions, associates with apirits, and uttets
sublimest things, whichfar surpass her natural sphere
:.nowledge, it must on no accountbe regarded as any
tg divine, but as a real diseaie, and as an aberration
lature from her regularand prescribed path. All that
18YS and does must be rationally examined, according
he word of God; seasonable ;warnings and admoni-
lS should be attended to, but they are never, and by
means, divine revelations ; not even then, when such
erson predicts f~ture things, which come to pass, for
stands in connexion with the invisible world; but,
lis soul is still attached to the body, the connexion is
perfect; he caunot distinguish the images of his own
tgination from spirits: he knows and sees much that
did not know and see in his natural state, but it is
. all real, much less divine ; no regard should be paid
it, but rather, every suitable means used to cure him
his disorder; for these aberrations have generally a
tressing termination. Instances of this will be sub-
tuently adduced.
The causes from which a natural magnetic sleep may
JCeed, are chiefly the following:__:_
First--a lively and very irritable nervous system,
da vivid imagination appertaining to it, l>oth of which
: generally found united.
F
/
66 REMARXI UPOM THE NATURE OP MAN.
Secondly--anincessant occupation of the soul with
supernatural objects; for instance, when aupentitioua
and ill-informed simple people are constantly t.hinkiDg
upon bewitchments and apparitions. Even if they be,
at the same time, vile and reprobate characten, they
may at length be brought, by this means, into a real
connexion with evil spirita, and then sorcery is no longer i
an idle tale.
Sensual love, particularly in the female sex, is the
most fertile source ofmagnetic fits, and hence ariae hor-
rible deceptions, particularly when religious feelinge are '
intermixed with them. I am acquainted with maay
melancholy instances of this kind, to which I will not
now give pul!llicity, for the sake of persons still living.
A pious young woman visited the religious meetinga,
which a pious, but handsome and married man :held ia
his house. By degrees she fell in love with him, and as
insuperable difficulties stood in the way of her attach·
ment, her nerves at length succumbed in ~e conffict.
and the poor unfortunate girl became a somnambuliJt.
At the commencement, she uttered the most sublime
andglorious truths in her fits ; and she generally enteied
the crisis.when present at these religious meetings. She
predicted many things that were to happeD in ruaue.
several of which were accomplished. She gained •
llJ:llARK.I tll'OJl THE NATURE OP llAN. 67
number of followers ; and the moat sensible and well-
iDformed regarded her aa one that was inspired by the
Spirit of God, in a word, as a prophetess.
Inherfits, she receivedinformation by degrees, that
the wife of the object of her affections was an abomina-
tion in the sight of God and his angels. Thia waa
~ally insinuated with such Satanic cururlng and hy-
pocriBy, that the whole company, which consisted of
BeTeral hundred persons, most devoutly believed it.
The poor woman was therefore confined in a remote
place, by vrdcrs from t~e illmi~ ourld; she lost her
reuon, died raving mad, and the widower then married
the young woman, also by order from the invisible
world. The two principal actors, and the whole of their
adherents, might be innocently mistaken previous to the
cruel treatment of the man's first wife. The herrid
crimes of this female and her followers are known to the
world, and substantiated by official documents.
A common servant girl in the North of Germany,
reeei~ in a trance, the commission that she should
briDg forth the prince, who should bear rule under
Christ in his approaching kingdom. A married clergy-
man, and in other respects a pious man, let himself be
deceived by her; he believed her, and she really bore a
110n; but my readers may judge whether he will b~l)'\\\\!.
0
68 REMARKS UPON Tilt: N ATURB OF JIAlf,
that to which his mother had destined him. A similar
event took place a few years ago in the South of Ger-
many.
I knew a lady of sincere piety, who fell daily, oC
herself, into a perfect magnetic sleep. In this state, she
was extremely sublimely disposed, she saw Christ, asao-
ciated entirely with. angels, heard them sing, sang with
them, and said things which were astonishing. Atlength,
the spirit whom she took for Christ, or perhaps a creao-
ture of her own imagination, which she took for him,
announced to her that she would die at eix o'clock the
next morning. The good woman passed the night in a
state of painful conflict; in the morning, those that were
about her stopped the clock, spoke with her on a viUiety
of subjects, and thus the time passed over. She was
afterwards easily convinced, that all she had seen were
delusive appearances, and her fits also ceased.
Finally-a person that is holy and devout, by long
exercising himself in walking in the divine preaence,
may fall into this state of magnetic sleep. But the caso
is very different then: it is immediately evidentfrom what
source his expressions flow ; and yet even here it is
necessary to be extremely cautious, and not regard every
thing as a divine communication or revelation, Expe·
rience teaches, that persons far advanced ~ piety maY
BIIIARK.S UPON TBB NATURB OF IIAK. 69
fall into this state of natural magnetic sleep, and also
euler in~ connexion with good spirits and even angels:
but even good spirits do not know every thing, particu-
larly whilst they continue in Hades, and have merely
learnt what they know from others. Vain and false
apirit. frequently interfere on these occasions, and seek
to deceive and mislead the seer. These study his incli-
nations and wishes, and then arrange the communica-
tiona, imagery, and ideas, in such a manner as to gratify
hia favourite inclinations. Now if he regards all this as
a divine revelation, he will be satisfied that·his wishes
are agreeable to God, and thus he may fall into the most
dangerous errors. The truth and importance of this ob-
servation cannot be too pressingly urged; ·for. if a maa,
or even a child, fall into a trance, or into any other state
ofsupernatural elevation, and then begin to preach re-
peutance, predict future things, and speak in a style to
which he is naturally incompetent, the common specta-
tor,. especially ifhe be religiously inclined, regards it all
as divine influence and revelation; and the poor som-
nambulist himselfbelieves it also, rejoices at it, is deeply
aft'ected· by it, thanks God for it, and now the thought
secretly arises in his mind, that he is somethingparticu-
lar, and that God has some great object in view with
him; he comes into connexion with false spirits of light,
who strengthen him in such ideas by a variety of delusive
imagery, andthen the arch-enthusiast is comll'\eteO.. ~\\e
70 REMARKS Ul'ON THE NATURE OF .MAN.
entrance to this erroneous path has not been sufficiently
guarded, the reason of which is, because philosophera
and divines either do not understand how to guard it at
all, or else not in a proper manner. Attend, my dear
readeril, as you value your eternal salvation, to the fol-
lowing infallible trutha, which are of such importance in
the present day:-
The whole organization ofhuman nature, and both
reason and holy writ, testify, loudly and inconteatibly,
that we mortals on this side the grave, are referred aolely
to the visible world, and by no meana to the world of
apiriti; he, therefore, who from curiosity aeeka to learn
either tha~ which is concealed, or that which is future,
commits a very heinous sin. Genuine faith and co~tant
intercourse with God in 1esus Christ, unceasing watch-
fulness and prayer, and willingness to know nothing but
Christ the crucified, places the human soul in rapport
with God and Christ, through the medium of th~ Holy
Spirit; and when we neither wish nor seek any thing
else whateyer, we are secure agamat every error and
aberration: and should any thing supernatural maniC~
itself, we must continue calm, tranquil, and dispassion-
ate, and examine minutely what the appearance is, and
what is its object; but, in·other respects, take no further
notice of it: if it be of God, it will know how to legiti-
mate itself. in such a manner as to make it impos&ible
a•KAUI VPOK TUB IU.rV&B 01' IU.)(. 71
_, lo lie deceived; and ifitbe from the world of spiritl, the
~ am.a.aliliould know how to act lon the occaaion; I
will lay down, in the .equel, the most proper rules of
IIOIIdnct for his government, in all cases of this kind.
I retUrn to the object I had in Yiew, which was
the inyeaUgation or human nature, and itl relation to
&be eensihle ltorld. There are a variety of diseases,
which are aacribed to the nervea, and which act upon
tile etberial patt, or lumiDoua body o{ $be human soul;
aaawhen nch an individual poaiesaea a1ively imagina-
-. incompnhenaible thiilgs frequently occur. It often
btfpeu that 81lch penon& do not feel themselves m, all
t.be ntal function~ pursue their course unhindered, and
without pain; and·yet these appearances result from a
dilordued mganizatililD of the body, awl consequently
fimn a cli.seaae.
Thue individuals see such appeamncea, either in a
wakiDg atate, so that they are fully consciousof every
object, and ofthemselves also, or else they are out of
theJD.Jelvea, tBll into a trance, and thus into magnetic
10mnamb~, in which state they see those appear-
ances. But here arises the difficult questioJl, where do
those appearances cease, which are merely founded in the
nature of_~ and where· do thos~ commence which
have their orip:J in the invisible world~
..
72 ll&KAILIS UPON TilE NATVILE 01' KA!f.
It is possible for a person in the state abovc-11
tioned to see angela and spirits; he may have interco
even with God and Christ, and yet all thls be a 1
delution of the imagination, for they are only im1
which were previously fonned in it, except that, by
ease, they are become equally as lively, as those 11
we receive through the outward senses, · I knew a I
female, who, in her trance, was surrounded with at
and conversed with them too. At length the angel!
gan to sing, the pious soul 1ung with them, and ·
'WBII itf A miserable ballad-singer, and a commo11
tional air. Persona in this diseased state often II
with so much wisdom and understanding, upon au~
ofwhich they were thought to possess IC8lCely the ii
knowledge, that it ia really astoniahing; and if the
pious and awakened people they often preach, and
better too, than many a right reverend divine. We :
instances on record, of men having travelled abou1
country, preached repentance, and awakened many :
a sleep of ain; and yet all this was the remit of a
voua diaorder, and of a natural elevation, produc:,c
magnetic sleep.• I willingly allow, that eternal
can make use, even of thia means, to bring llinnen tA
pentance; but it must not be regarded aa any t
• Our author gives a remarkable example or this i
'·Theobald, orthe Enthusiasts," inserted in !fo.t of the '
structive NarratioDI" page 131-recently published.
BEKABKII UPON TilE NATURE O!· MAN, 73
divine, nor as the inspimtion of the Holy Ghost; for in
thia case, the greatest errors may result from it. It is
to be lamented, that these extraordinary preachers, from
want of sufficient self-knowledge themselves, believe
that the Holy Spirit speaks through them ; and when
their heal'ers believe it likewise, however many errone-
0118 things the preacher may say, they are all regarded
II the word of God, and therefore as true. On such
oeeasions, every thing should be minutely and rigidly
eumined by the Word of God and sound reason; but,
inother respects, no value should be attached to these
things, much less ought they to be declared divine ; we
ooght mther to seek to cure such persons in a regular
IIIIDner.
The highest species of apparitions, which have their
hmdation in human nature is, incontestibly, when a
penon still living can show himself in some distant
place. However much this may have been ridiculed
u the most ab~rd sllperstition, yet so certain and posi-
liYe are the facts narrated, that the matter is placed
beyond a doubt; and many of my readers will probably
lelllember some incident or other of this kind. I do not
apeak here ofsuch apparitions as have shewn themselves,
immediately after death, to some particular friend, but
a!'those that have made such a visit, whilst the indivi-
daalatill animated a living body. Instances are known
74 BIIIAR.KS UPON Till NATURI 01' KANe
to me, in which persons who were sick, were aeised witk
an indescribable longing to aee a certain mend; ..,
soon after fell into a swoon, and, during the time, tbeJ
appeared to the distant object of their longing. But die
(ollowing narrative exceeds all I ever n:ad or heard upoa
thi11 subject; it come• from a credible source, and pue-
sesscs all the ehnractcri11tica of hi11toric veracity.
About sixty or seventy years ago, a man of piety 11111
integrity anivc.>d in Germany, from Philadelphia, ia
North America, to visit Ius poor old parcnta, uul with
his wull-enrncd wealth to place tlaem beyond the I'Mth
ofcare. He went out to America whilst be wu lllill
young, and hnd succeeded 110 fur as to become overlooker
ofvarious mill11 ou the Delaware river, in which situatioa
he had honourably laid up a llolllliderable sum. Thia
respectable individual relutud to one of my friends, Upol
whose veracity I ciUl depend, the: following wonclerfW
tale.
In the neighbourhood ofI'hiladelphi&, not far from the
mill11 abo\·c-mentioued, there dwdt u solitary man in a
lonely house. lie WUII very benevolent, but extn:mely
retired and reiiCn·c.'ll, und 11tr&Dge things we~ related ol
him, amongst wlueh were hia being able to tell a penoo
thinj.,rs tJaat were unknown to every one elae. Now it
hawcncd, that the captain of a YCiiCl belonging to Plail·
.BIIAR'I:S UPON TUB NATURB OP IIAN, 75
adelphia, was about to sail to Africa and Europe. H_e
promised his wife that he would return again in a cer-
tain time, and also that he would write to per frequently.
She waited long, but no letters arrived: the time ap-
poiBted pa68ed over, but her beloved husband did no£
return. She was now deeply distressed, .and knew not
where to look either for counsel or consolation. At
length, a friend advised her for once to go to the pious
10litary, and tell him her griefs. The woman followed
his advi~, and went to him. After she had told him all
her troubles, be desired her to wait a while there, until
he returned and brought her an answer. She sat down
towait, and the man openinga door, went into his closet.
But the woman thinking he stayed a long time, rose up,
went to the window in the door, lifted up the little cur-
tain, and looking in, saw him lyfug on the couch or sofa
like a corpae : s~e then immediately went back to her
place. At length he came and told her that her husband
was in London, in a coffee-house which he named, and
:hat he would return very soon : he then told her also
:he reason why he had been unable to write. The wo-
oan went home pretty much at ease.
'What the solitary had told her was minutely fulfilled,
1et husband returned, and the reasons of his delay and
lis not writing were just the same as the man had sta-
ed. The woman was now curious to know what would
j6 REMARKS UI'OX TilE NATURE OF IIA!f,
be the result, if she visited the friendly solitary in com-
pany with her husband. The visit was arranged, bd
when the captain saw the man, he was atruck with
amazement ; he afterwards told his wi(c that he had llt'!ell
this very man, on such a day ;(it was the very day tba&
the woman had been with him), in a coffee-boule m
London ; and. that he had told him that hia wife wu
much distrt'sscd ahout him ; that he had then stated the
reason why his return was delayed, and of hi• not
writing, and that he would shortly come back, on whirl!
he lost sight of the man among the company.•
This most singular narrative, which is totally inu-
plicable and incredible, according to the common system
of materialism, can be explained only according to my
theory ofhuman nature, and itll possibility demonstrated.
For thiM purpose, I must refer to the indubitable Cactt,
for which \\"e arc indebted to animal magnetism.
It ia now an evident and estublishcd truth, that
there is, in the human frame, a aubtlc l~minoua body,
an ethcrt'al co,·ering ofthe immortal rutionalspirit, \\·)Ueh
has undt'niably manifc~tcd itsl'lf in magnetism, galvan-
i~tm, electricity, and insympathy and a.ntipntby,andaheWD
itself opcrati\'C in a variety of ways: with th.ia body the
• See Note 3.
REMARKS UPOX THE NATURE OF MAN. 77
!he rational spirit is eternally andinseparably connected.
In the foregoing pages, I have denominated this eternal
lumino111 body, the human soul.
This h1l1Jlan soul, by an artificial stroking, or mag-
netiDng, can be detached from the nervous system in a
numberless variety ofdegrees, and become a free agent,
according to the extent of the degree of detachment ;
certain diseases, andlikewise certain medicines, or rather,
poisonous plants, are capable of producing the same
effect.
In the inferior degrees of this detachment, con-
scioUIIless remains, but the imagination is more lively,
so tlmt the man believes he really sees and hears what
he merely imagines.
Natural sleep is also one species of detachment.
When the organic machine of the body, or rather the
nerves, become wearied to a certain extent, the human
soul forsakes these organs, in so far as they belong to
the st:nses; for, from the latter alone proceeds our con-
scioU8Jle88 of the visible world; the soul, however, con-
tinues to act of itself; and if this take place in so lively
a maDDer, as to make an impression on the inward or-
gans ofsense, we then remember it on awaking, and call
ita dream.
78 RBMARKS UPOS TKE NATURB OP MA••
This detachment is some degrees more complete il
the common sleep-walkers, and has a similarity to 1DII8'
netic somnambulism : in this case the human soul ada
more freely, it dreams more connectedly and distinctly,
and to mch a degree, that the nervous system, and con-
sequently the body also, is set in motion, although dM
senses are all at rest; and as the man in this state ia!lOI
actnated by the sensible world, but by the coJUlexioa el
ideas in the soul, action• enme which do not belong tie
the natural order of thinga : but these very aetiona, 11
every one knows, are much more perfect in themselftl,
than when performed in a wakeful state ; from whence
it is again evident, that the human soul, whea ieliverecl
from the bonds of the body, can act much more beely,
perfectly, and actively; it then neither sleeps nor alum·
bers, nor is wearied any more for ever.
In the common fits ofhypochondriacal and hysteri-
cal persons, as also of those who are afflicted with
worma, the degreeaof detachmentare likewille Tery vari-
ous, conscquentJy the exhibitions and actions aleo whieb
proceed from them ; but at death it is complete. Ot
this I will treat at large in the chapter on appariticma.
It is, therefore, an inconteatible experimentalUuth,
that the human soul can be detached in an infinite num·
ber and variety ofdegrees, even to entire separation frolll
a•KA&KS UPO. THE NATURE OP MAN• 79
the body, and is able to act beely ofitself, according to
~ ihe degree of this detachment.
There may be those to whom this detachment is a
"'Ye¥y matter, and uaiated by aecretmeans, may even
he oarried ao far, that the human aonlleavea the body
ma abort time, performs something at a distance, and
Jeluml to the body again: but this, however, must take
place in a very short time, before the blood loses ita flu~
idity,· We have eeveral instances of the ocetinence of
thia in diseased persons. I will now explain, according
to my theory, this rare and most remarkable phenome-
non, with reference to the American instance above re-
lated, whieh ia the moat perfect of ita kind.
When the soul ia in a state of detachment from ita
aenaitive organa, whilst still in the body, consciousness
ofthe visible world ceues, so long BB the detachment
la.sta; the soul, however, lives and acts in the sphere of
ita knowledge, and enters, at length, by frequent repeti-
tion of this 11tate, into eonnexion with the world of spi-
rits; it is no longer sensible of any thing in the visible
world ; it sees and hears no one except those with whom
it isplaced in rapport, which is accomplished by bringing
the psychical atmospheres of both into contact with each
other, according to certain laws. With suchpersons the
sonl can have intercourse and converse, and from them
80 JI.EitABX& UPON TilE NATUJlE OP llANo
it learns what is passing around it in the visible w'
at the time.
Now, supposing the American above-menti01
poBBes.sed the capability, either from nature, or by s•
secret means, or by both, to detach his soul at pleas
entirely from the body, and unite it again with the be
he could therefore place himself in a state of the n
perfect somnambulism ; by the phenomena and exF
menta ofwhich, every thing must now be explained.
soul, therefore, forsook its body, with the will to ask
captain the reason of his protracted stay and of his
writing. As soon as it left the body, it was no lor
sensible of any thing in the material world, and wa
the world of spirits, where no space can separate.
moment, therefore, the soul forsook the body, it was
ready in London with the captain of the wssel ; an
he had been in China, or any where else, its magic
would have carried it thither.
The human soul, abstractedly considered, 1s u
aible, it is naturally not ob\"ious to the senses, bt:
can make itself visible in two ways: first, by attract
atmospheric substances, and forming out of them a h
like ita own; and secoudly, by placing itselfin rap]
with the person to whom it 11'ishes to appear. In
fonuer c~c, it may be seen by mauy persons; but t
RBJlAIUtl UI:'OK THE MATURE OP JlAK. 8\
eYery one perceivei that the apparition is no ~uman '
being, but a spirit: in the latter case, it is only visible
to him, with whom it stands in rapport, by acting in
auch a lively manner on his soul a.ud organs of sense,
that he sees the peraon before him as clearly, as if he
were present in his own body. This remark I shall also
aubsequently elucidate, very clearly and completely, in
the chapter on the apparition of spirits.
The·American certainly appeared to the captain ac-
cording to the second .mode, for in the first, a great sen-
sation would have been excited amongst those that were
present: and who knows what might have been.the con-
.equence of it to the individual himself?
I couldrelate several instances of this kind, but this
one may suffice, in order not to make this work too
prolix.
The singular phenomenon when persons see them-.
selves, or appear to themselves, is not rare, and may
take place in two ways: first, when the person, who sees
JUJn.elf,-isalone conacions of the apparition, whilst othen
who are present see nothing. In this case, the appear-..
ance may be merely natural, and founded in human na-
ture; but where it is seen by sevel"al, it then belongs to
G
r
I •
fhe irnisible worM, and to the following eftspter dn pre-
seutimeata.
ShonJd •Y one ad:, haw it is ~ fOr a Dtall to
appear to himself, orhow this self-sight is ltuBded illJnt-
:mm nature : I mswer that, :iD order to tmlf, notbiDg lllGI'e
arequisite, than to- see angels andepirita wharf! dlere ue
none, or atleastwhere they are DGt olrriou to the ..,..._
The celebrated Frederick Nicolai, ofBerlin, fell once into
a state, in which lle saw mey epiritual beiDp around
lim, wlrleh all gradually 'fliDilhed ou maki~ u.e ollu-
atift md cathatt:ie medieiDett.• Now jtltlt • other ,._.
may 'IJe' IC7 riridJy impreeaett 1lpC7D the im~tion, U
to resemble the extemaJ eensible impreelfion~t, 10 the
IIIUJle impression may also be made by one's own figure.
I have proposed the question abG'Ye,Where do thoee
appearances cease, which originate merely in hurnt111 M-
ture ; and where do those commence that are connected
Wfdtthe warld ofIJ>iritl! My &nl'ftr is u fellewe :-
.As long a an .apparition oRly epeda 111eh tbiJ1,a,
a a pmml fn a ltate ofUDDatnral ttaltatfotm JlltW1 Dow,
dte 8ft'elnlllte is a mere creaturr:&f t!le imagiDalielr, ia
• See Note 4.
a&MABaS VtOH fHE ~ATUAE OP MAN. 83
tome inferior degree of m&glletic somnambulism ; but
when it says things, which it is naturally impossible f&t
the peraon to know, and when these things are afterwatde
hmd to be true, the person that has these appearances, ·
stands in oonnexiOR with the invisib]e world. But t1He
may also be the case, although· not all that is said comes
to }lBSII1 and even some thinga· not at all ; because, even
good epirit.l may atill be mietaken, and the bad intention-
ally millead.
TJlere is still something ofimportance to be obser-
ved, which lies in human nature ; and that is, the capa-
'lrility ol lkavmgintercoUl'Be oreonnexion with the spiri~
&wal world, on this side the grave, and during the present
life. According to the laws of nature, this faculty ought
not to be developed in our mortal frame, because, i.rt. thili
life, we are far i-om possessing all that is necessary to
try the spirits, and may, therefore, be dreadfully deceived
and misled. But this faculty may be developed by cer-
tain diseases; and there are also some, in whom this deve-
lopment easily takes plaee. Now, as spirits, and parti-
eularly the Mparted aonls of men, which are still irl
H._, aBd would gladly hal'e something performed_ or
eul!uted in the wotld they have left,,eameshly long for
some one in the material world, .who may accomplish
their wishes; they consequently rejoice greatly, when
they find a person who :i. already in connexion -ID.'U.\~oe
84 REIIAB•ItB UPON THE NATUB.E OP IL\Ne
world of spirits, or may be easily brought into it : they
therefore appear to this person, and entreat him to fulfil
their desires. When I come to treat upon the apparition
of spirits, I will clearly point out what is to be done in
such a case, what is duty, and what is not duty.
The inhabitants of the invisible world are only aen-
'VC sible of the spiritual world, and not in the smallest de-
gree of our material or visible world; in the same man-
ner as we are sensible only of the latter and not of the
former. The spiritual world is in the same place with
the material or visible world ; we are really in it, but we
perceive nothing of it, even as the spirits are with us and
about us, without perceiving any \bing of us, with the
exception of the good and evil angels : they are sensible
of us, and can act upon us ; but the departed souls of
men cannnot do so, except when they find any one with
whom they are able and permitted to enter into connex-·
ion.
Hades is in our atmosphere, ·!Jlld extends down-
warda into the body Qf the earth where hell begins; it
also extends upwards to the residence of the blesaed, in
pure ether, But ofthis I shall treat more at large in its
proper place.•
• See Note 5.
•EMARKS UPOW THE NATURE OP MA~. 8S
A certain pious person, who had the fortune, or ra·
ther the misfortune, to standin connexion with the world
orspirits, maintainedthat theapparition ofa humanbeing
from the visible world, was just as appalling and terrific
as their appearance is to us, so that the affair they have
at heart must be weighty and oppressive, when they re-
solve upon seeking any one with whom they can enter
into connexion; notwithstanding ~s, they are very glad
when they :find a person of this description. Both these
assertions may well consist together.
But wherein does the capability of entering into
intercourse or connexion with spirits properly consist!
Fit"Bt.-A natural disposition to it consists in this :
-when the ethereal part or luminous body of the human
soul does not imbibe many heavy particles from the
blood, but keeps itselfpure; by which means it borders
more closely upon the invisible world. This does not
depend, however, on the will of man, but on the internal
organization of the body.
Secondly.-When the luminous body of the human
soul receives any particular accumulation of power, so
that it becomes more active than is necessary for life and
sensation, it may then happen that the individual may
li IJ,JCIIAKij:8 VPOIJ THB N4"rURE 91' IIAN·
appear in tlw invisible world, and hue i.Qtoraoaru with
ita iDhabitaDta.
Both of theM cauae• may be produced 'by dileue,
by magnetism, by natunl me&lll derived rrorthe three
kingdoms of nature, and by other magic and mystic atta;
bu.t it i. improper, daDgel'OU8, and senenlly very tinful
and criminal to make u.ae of IUCb JDefU18 to attain dUa
capability, contrary to the order of God and natqre. J
will not, howeyer, on this account, accuse cettafn ree-
pectable individuals, who stand in connexion with the
spiritual world, of committing a crime; there may be
exceptioDB to the rule, and it may be the will of God to
use such instruments for his se"ice ; but when this is
the caae, he will lead such pei'IOlls, by his pro'ridence,
whither he deeigna tohave th~m, without their own eeek-
inc it. It ia, and ever will be, culpable preiUIIlptiOD to
eeek intercoUJ"M with spirits from our own impulse.
The moat remarkable in~vidual of this kiad wu,
undoubtedly, the famous ghost-aeer, Swedeuborg1 and
this is the place where I must notice him at some length.
He had the natural diapolition to intercourse with the
invitibleworld ; and aa 10 muob has been written for and
.,ainat this extraordinray man, I ~it aa my duty to
publiah the real truth reepecting him, having had tbeop-
portunity of obtaining it pure and unminglcd.
Swedenborg w.aa the BOn of a preacher in Sweden;
Ilia chamcter w.aa tllat of honesty and aincerity, IIUld he
pcw•easedgreat talents forlearning, by whicll he profited,
8lld doftted himaelf 1o the atudy of phil0804>h.7 uci
Jlltural hiatory, but particularly to minemlogy, .metal~
lurgy, chemistry, and geology. In orde.r toperfect bjm-
self atill more in the latter of these sciences, he under-
took long joUDries through Europe, and then returned
to JUs native country, where he was admitted as ameJJl•
ber of the geological board. He has written a couple
of thiek. folios, the contents of which are philosophical•
they.contain a well-digeated SJitem of philo1ophy, which,
howner, was not favourably received. He then wrote
alao two other thick folio volumea, on copper and irOll,
w.hic.h atill maintain t.keir acknowledged value. To ta.
aurpriBe of e~ery one, this .oable, learned, and pio1ola maa
fell into intercourse with .spirits. He made .so little a
myateq of t.hia, thatfrequently at table, before a muner-
oua company, and when engaged in the most rational
and scientifi.c .conversation, he would say, that he had
jut before spoken on thia or that point with the apoetle
Paul, or with Luther, or with some one who had long
been dead. It is easy to conceive that those present
gaped and stared ~t him with every mark of astoniSh-
ment, and doubted whether he was in his ~ht senaes.
However, he occasionally furnished proofs, which were
Unobjectionable. It is true that these statements h.a.ve
88 &BJIA&Jt8 UPON THE KATU&B 01' JIAJr.
been controverted, and the good man accused of decep-
tion; but the latter I loudly deny. Swedenborg was no
deceiver, but a pious and religious man, but who might
still be occasionally deceived and mistaken. The three
following proofs of his havingintercourse with spirits are
univenally known.
Fi~t.-The Queen of Sweden put him to the test,
by commissioning him to tell her what she had spoken
on a certain remarkable occal!ion with her decAased bro-
ther, the prince of Prussia, in Charlottenberg, if I mis-
take not. After some time, Swedenborg announced
himldf, and stated to her what had passed. The Queen
wu deeply struck with it, as may be easily aupposed.
Thia fact ~ been controverted in the public papers;
but a Sw~sh nobleman, who was, in other respects, no
admirer of Swedenborg, assured me, that the matter
wu most unquestionably true.• He gave me also other
proofs ofit, which 1. scruple to make public, in order
not to compromize certain individuals; thia being gene-
rally the cue with matters that. relate to the invisible
world.
• A l't'S(ll'ctable Wurtemburg divine wrote to the Queen
on thl' ~uhjcct; sheanswered his letterand testififd to the truth
ofit.
· Jl.EIIAB.Itl UPON THE NATVB.B OF .MAN. 89 •
Secondly.-8wedenborg arrive4 at Gottenburg,
from·England with a company of travellers. He there
said, he had learned from the angels, that there was at
that moment, a· fire in Stockholm, in such a street.
Amongst those present were some, who resided at Stock-
holm, and who felt uneasy at this intelligence; but he
came to them soon afterwards and said, that they need
not be alarmed, for the fire was extinguished. The
next day, they learned that such had been exactly the
the case. This is a fact which is most certainly true.
Thirdly.-A respectable widow was called upon to
pay a considerable sum of money, which she was con-
fident her deceased husband had already paid; but she
c:ould not find the receipt. In her distress she.,:went to
Swedenborg, and entreated him to ask her busfland
where the receipt was laid. Some daJB after, Swedcnborg
told her, that the receipt was in a certain. press, at the
bottom, in a concealed drawer, where it was immediately
found.• This fact has been thus explained: ~weden­
borg knew where the receipt was, and had merely made
the woman believe he bad ascertained it from her bus-
. band. I know to a certainty, that it would have been
morally impossible for this pious man to have acted in
such a manner; ifhe had known ofthe receipt, he would
• See Note 6.
98 8.1114R'KS V~ TH. MAI'V&S 01' IUW•
certainly have told the disb'ellecl widow w-a wu
on lu!r first visit. But I muat DOW adda JOwl/a upllli-
mental proof, which hu never been previoualy JDMie
public, and ia fully u important as any one of dle fen-
going. 1 can Youch for the truth ofit, wua the gaut.at
confidence
About tlu! year 70 of the laet oeatury, there WM a
merchant in Elberfeld, with whom, duriag eevea ,_..
ofmy residence there, I lived in clo.e illdmacy. He
waa a strictmystic in the purest sense. He spoke little;
but what lu! aaid, wu like golden fruit 'on a eal1'er of
ailnr. He would not have dared. for all the world.
lmowingly to have told a firllehood. This frieod ol
mine, w.bo baa long ago left tbia world lor a better, ze.
lat.ecl to me tlu! following tale.
Hi. busi.neu required him tD take a joumey to
Amlterdam,_where Swedenborg at that time raided;
and having heard and read much of this atrange iDdiri-
dual, he formed.the intention of viaiting bim, ADd beoam-
iog better acquainted with him. He therefore called U}Ql
him, and found a very venerable-looking frieodl7 oW
man, who. receiYed him politely, and required him to
be teated; on which the following coDvenatioD bepD :
Tile Merchaut.-Uavin~~\\ e'-\l~ \\\\1\~t by busi·
~au E'fttll nu: ,..&n;u; ot IIA". III
I coald DOt cleay my.elf dal" Jwnor, Sir, of I"'Yiu~e
~ to you: your writi&g~~ have c:au11cd ,.. w
d you as a very remarkable man.
Swedenborg.-May I ask you wht•ro you ar" li"cmJ 1
Y.en:h.-I am from Elberfeld in the .cJWIIf d•u:J11
'«· Your writinga contain 10 mucb "f •bat ..
iCuliUld edifying, that they have IJllldt: a ~ ,,.·
oa upoa me: bat the aoarc:e, lro• wbnw•· ,,,.
~ them, is so extraonliuary, 10 atrang~:, MtJ ..a·
:on, that you will perbapa not takr. it am•.. ,,r ..
e friend oltmda, ilJw daire .iamDt~atd* ,,,,,,.,
you really have mtercoune with rlw. mvMibM
hred.-It W'luld be very uni'P.lUinnahl•! ,r I .,,,.. .•
; bat I tlliDk I .llaYe pea ..ma.nc prrd•, wt.i..h
t be crwtndieud
fada.--~ :hr.y thollf'. thllt arP. ~o ;""" :.no....,,
~ dlr ~ die IIJe" in :'koekhnlm. """ ·h..
t!
92 REll!~RKS l"I'O:S THE NATUB.'£ OF MAN.
against tltcm. :\light I v_enturc to propose, that
gh·e me a similar proof?
Swed.-Why not? Most willingly !
Merch.-I had formerly a friend, who studied
nity at Duisburg, where he fell into a consumptio
which he died. I visited this friend, a short time I
his decease ; we conversedtogether on an importautf
could you learn from him what was the subject o
discourse?
Swed.-We will see. What was the name of
friend?
The Merchant told him his name.
Swed.-How long do you remain here?
· Merch.-About eight or ten days. ·
Swed.-Call upon me again in a few days.
see if I can find your friend.
The Merchant took his leave and diapatche
business. Some days after, he went again to Sw
borg, in anxious expectation. The old.geademll
94 JlEXABJI:S UPON THE NATUtE 01' JIAlf•
manner. Such like evasions belong under the head of
the "transfiguration ofthe Redeemerby means ofmoon-
shine!"
It is a matter, which no longer admits of a doubt,
that Swedenborg hadfrequent intercourse with the inha-
bitants of the invisible world, for many years: but~ ia
equally certain,that hieimagination oceasionally deceiv..
him, and that certain spirits gave him, at times, WJ'OII8
information. His writings contain a great deal of what 1
is beautiful, and instructive, and credible, but alao, in
places, such incomprehensibly absurd and senaele•
things, that it requires an exercised spirit ofexamiaaticm
to peruse them with profit.
Swedenborg's chief error consiSted in believiug
himself, that God had opened his inward sense, and ch0.
sen him for the purpose of making known, in tbeae lMI
times, those mysteries, that were hithertO coneealed, and
of laying the foundation of the Lord's kingdom. lt il
easy, however, to conceive how he might be thus de-
ceived : for aa he obtained his acquaintaDce with tha
world of spirits so suddenly and unsought, andaa he ,...
not sufficiently acquainted with human nature, u tJal&
he could have suppoaed there waa anch a thiDg u a dil-•
position of the body, which deviates from. the law fl
nature, a sort of disease, by which the incti:9idaal ..,.
·I
IIDt" i:a ·ltbftwDe.. :1e ·:rmst -~~-rs•anh• acucv,. :IIMI
~.alioas ·~ i:mmet~Y' ;i'nm uuu.. .&1114-
•
-~:D. 2 re!pmL-u •:Yc·r· ·Ju~ w.. ·,n,.,,
• ~ :a :rim. ;IJHl ::>miL~IW:nt1\' u~d· uau,
. . . .ar tmm cinCl. ~!'Om 1UC!l UC:I.W. -~UU&UI·
11111118 ami.~ .llav m:w. lollLl ·reliC :.t~c ~lt:llKIU
DE t.iirre tiJa& iJe Ga. ·~ .IM .~1» :Jb!m
Jg tbe !~!mit •lf ., ·linnt ::oJDIDIIDI.l.
• &ave ~t :mu :ncmurn-vr:mluy :r•ll\':IIL:t.:•1 .nr.
Ill jmmmmj i!Jim;. ·.W: a.h"IDtr ~ .n mw, 11t
l'llhl¥ IUiitcd -..tth m :!1w:r..:.u •T wmnuw. U•ll''.
lia Jmmun :tiJIL1. "Y!UC!l a U::ll:;llJ:!L :0 liS & :!~:II
world ,,t" ipirits. ..!!. u. t l"·-:!1":. :;:..i.:•L nu. :11:,
p-Ji&· -.1 :JIIimai. JIIIUI' 'Zl YllU:.U .t .;:- &:~t.i.:fl":'l J•r
:Ill tba llei:VIS. -IIIIL mur ,., l1Wt .A:!.U·r:!t '7• ·'- :11r
..,..... tJii ita -~llle:Dt-.!11: UlJL !o:Ca:.':!.:!oll .lUll;
..... aml :.ummo,llt J>-.!~ UICJI:f "&W! .llf::Ml'"..:a:lr-
il -..m..c !n ~-.... .1M u..r.::"U~oll :m'oi"!Jl :OUI
~,!Mila. '11111. Jl;r.: :utr"ot~ .J:IAUJ"J,IU."'oo& -.rt:1
.w, . ., 1m: -:we. ~ 'IIM:uJa it ~cl;IIIZr.
ltllia~ llUL 1':' -~~~-.J:
le ..,ft. ~ :eat ii...,,~~L u~· :It! ·il;rll~ .1: :11: "''(;'!
111ft. imn- ~..:rot. T!:I ::~ .t. •.•_,,;,,. ~~::. ...m!!f
oer is .:~ r.mJI!!"".n:.t~ I..!Z'.I:L:!""4- at mn=I:L;
96 &II:KA&KI UPOM THE HATUaB OW K.I.K. •
the principles of the christian religion ; and finally, thai
its actions are so much the more perfect and volatile,
the more it is divested of the body, in order to think,
imagine, or in a word, to make use of its undentaDd-
ing, reason, and will; on the contrary, all the faculties
of the soul or spirit are much more perfect when the D•
ward man il freed from the body, it posaeues the laUIIr
only for the purpose of peing conseioua orthe viaible
world, and of acting in it. ·
When once the new heavens and the new earth
shall be completed, then shall the souls or pioaa meD,
united to their resurrection-body, be colllcioaa, not only
of the new and glorified visible world, but also of the
world of spirits, and be able to act in both of them.
I conclude this chapter with the urgent exhortatioo
to avoid oll connexion with the world of spirits ; but if
any one attain to intercourse with it unsought, Jet bim
withdraw himselffrom itin a charitAble and cbriatian-like
manner, and return to that regular order, in which the
Father of men has placed him on this aide the gra.e.
In the chapter on apparitions, I will lay down rulea bow
we ought to act towards them.
'- 11.-~~ . 111.
J he~ :l~::: :. ::..::..:. :.:. ~.-
:.f w~:;.• ~; :;:::;•;::-~;.- ·· ..
I h::.>e =.ys.::: :-::_: --
sev~ra! ri:::...::s, l.-! :..::
!law read ~::.:: ::~
.- -- =- ....,__
98 ON FOREBODINGS, &c.
There are also those who, either by certain arts oz
diseases,.or else by natural disposition, develope their
faculty ofpresentiment, so that in certain cases, they can
learn, for themselves and others, what is taking place at
a distance, or will shortly take place. I will seek tc>
elucidate this important subject also; it has properly
reference to predictions and divination; a.t least they be-
long, in some respects, to this part of it.
Sorcery or witchcraft has been reckoned under the
most stupid kinds of superstition. I will endca\·our, in
the sequel, to show ifthere be a.ny thing in it, and what
there is in it.
Finally.-I must likewise examine how the tnl\·
~;pirit of prophecy may be distinguished from common
predictions. I understand by the latwr, 'l""hen any om.·
sees a. vision, by which something future is made known
to him, or when somrthing is inwardly revealt>d to him.
that is, to his inward senses.
Real presentiment!~, of which I will first speak,
have reference to men, who by no means stand in rap-
port with the world of spirits, as well as to those who
Rtand in this connexion.
Professor Boehm, of kno'fin t\:~~\-1\\\.\.'f \n Giesen
O;N i'OREBODJ:RGS, &c, 99
and Marburg, where he regularly read public lectures on
mathematics, a man ~fintegrity, religious sentiments, a
- friend of truth, and any thing else but an enthusiast,
used frequently to relate the following tale.
Being one afternoon in pleasant society, where he
was smoking his pipe and taking his tea, without reflect-
ing upon any particular subject, he, all at once, felt an
impulse in his mind to go home. Now, as he had nothing
to do at home, his mathematical reason told him he
o'ught not to go home, but remain with .the company.
But the inward monitor became stronger and more ur-
gent, so that, at length, every mathematical demonstra-
tion ga\·e way, and he followed his inward impulse. On
entering his room, and looking about him, he could dis-
cover nothing particular'; but he felt a new excitement
within him, which told him that the bed, in which he
slept, must be removed :from its· place, and transported
into another comer. Here, likewise, reason began again
to operate, and represented to him that the bed had al-
ways stood there : beside& which, it was the fittest place
for it, imd the other the most unfit, but all this availed
nothing, the monitor gave him no rest ; he was obliged
to call the servant,. who moved the bed to the desired
plare. Upon this his mind was.tranquilized, he returned
·to· the company he had left, and felt nothirig more of the
impul8e. He stayed supper with the comvan1, -.....;l!n\.
100 ON FO:R:EBODINGS1 &c.
home towards two o'clock, then laid himself in his bed.
and went to sleep very qa.ietly. At midnight, he wu
awakened by a dreadful cracking and noise; he aiose
from his bed, and then saw that a heavy beam, with a
great part of the ceiling, had fallen exactly upon the place
where his bed had previously stood. Boehm now gave
thanks to the merciful Father of men, 'for having gra-
ciously caused such a warnmg to be given him••
I know very well how the materialist will explaia
this striking and remarkable presentiment. He will ay,
that the beam bad cracked the preceding night, and that
Boehm had beard it indistinctly in his sleep, so that hr
was not clearly conscious of it; the obscure idea of dan·
ger, howeYer; still lay in his soul; this idea became more
lively, the nearer the period of danger approached, and
at length manifested itself in the manner above stated.
This exPlanation bears upon its surface a gleam of
~
probability, similar to that, when the materialist seelta
to explain light, either as proceeding from illumiDed
bodies, or by the tremulous motion ofthe e~ fluid,
occasioned by illumined bodies. But the more lltlictly
tbcte ideas are investigated, the more groundleuare they
found to be ; at length, contradiction• are dJacoYered,
and they are seen to be impossible. II, by the cnc:kiug
• See 'NCM 'I•
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 101
of the beam, a confused idea of danger had arisen in
Boehm, during ·sleep, he would have felt, on awaking, a
secret anxiety, a dread of something, of which he was
ignorant,· of which he might afterwards, perhaps, have a
confused recollection; and then, without knowing why,
might have ordered the bed to be removed to another
place.
But this was far from being the case with the mind
of the professor: it was at ease, and foreboded nothing ;
and as, towards evening, the impulse arose to go home,
it disputed against i~, which certainly would not have
been the case, had this impulse originated in his own
mind. The same thing happened likewise when the bed
was transported to another place : Boehm found it impro-
per and inconvenient•
.
But to such sophistry as this, must the materialist
ha~ recourse, when he attempts to apply his mechanical
laws to that which is supernatural. Something of this
kind may give satisfaction to persons of this description,
and to the superficial reasoner ; but to the christian
Bible-philosopher by no means ; the latter knows from
his Bible, from the mouth of truth itself, that there are
whole hosts of good and evil angels, that can act upon
the world and upon mankind. Christ teaches us ex-
pressly, that children have guardian angels, which. C<\\\.-
102 ON FOREBODINGS, &c.
tinually behold the face of his heavenly father, (Mauh.
xviii. 10.) These angels, therefore, recognize, in the
face of God, his will, and then accomplish it in the chil·
dren, as far as they are able and are not prevented ; aud
it is clear and evident from Heb. i. 14., and from many
other passages and hints in the Holy Scriptures, that
angels arc instruments, by which the Lord rules the whol~
creation, and therefore our visible world likewise ; and
that they serve as guardianl to man, and wam him of
danger, if it belong!! to the plan of the man'a guidance.
This warning takes place in varioua waya, 10 aa tbc
warning angel can best act upon a person, and it is then
callerl a presentiment.
It was probabl)J' such an angel that whispered intu
Hochm's soul, " Go home," and ngain afterwards, " Mow
the bed away into yonder comer,"
It is incomprehensible to me, how men can prefer
a machine which continually moves forwanl on ita counw
by eternal and adamantine compul11ion, according to tbe
same irreversible laws, and the same cold necesaity, -to a
world filled with free agents; and it ia to me equally
incomprehensible, why those who believe in a world 10
glorious, and so consistent with the character oC God,
should he so deeply despised and ridiculed, and be at-
tackt·d with such Satanic malignitr. Thia drcumatance
QN FOREBODINGS, &c. 103
is, in reality, no mean proof in favour of my theocratic
liberty; because the mechanical system is altogether
favourable to the kingdom of darkness, and most power-
fully promotes it. Is notmy view of such presentiments,
and of the government of the universe in general, more
tranquillizing, exhilarating, and more mciting to prayer
and activity, and to inward confidence in the all-gracious
ruler of the universe, than that which regards man, in
the mechanical system, as chained in an iron cage,·and
bound by eternal bonds ofdarkness, whom afterwards an
Wlchangeable destiny hurls away into endless space,
without knowing whither?
The merchant in whose employ I wasformerly, from
the year 1763 to 1770, and whom I have called "Spa-
nier" in the narrative.of my life, frequently related.to me
a remarkable presentiment, whichhe <:nee had inRotter-
dam. On commencing business, he took a journey into
Holland, for the purpose of forming connexions for his
extensive iron-works. But his chief attention was di-
rected to Middleburg in _Zealand, to which place he had
sel'eral recommendations from his friends, as well as to
other towns in Holland. Having finished his business
at Rotterdam, ~e went in the morning to the Middlel!urg
market boat, w~?ch was lying there at anchor, ready to
sail at noon to Middleburg. He took and paid for his
lOf OK I'OJtEJIODIKOI, &e.
place, and then requested that a sailor might be Jeftt to
him at an inn, whieh he named, when the \'e88el wu
about to sail. He then went to the said inn, prepared
for his voyage, and ordered some refreshment to be aeut
up to his room at·eleTen o'elock. When he had almost
finished hia repast, the aailor eame to.call him ; bat u
soon aa the man opened the door, and the merelwtt eat
his eyes upon him, he wu seised with an unaceount&ble
trepidation, together with an inward conviction that he
ought not to go to Middleburg, so that aU Ids ~
againstit was of no avail; and he was obligedto tell the
sailor thathe could notaccompanyhim ; to which the Jat..
ter replied, that ifso, he would lose his fare; but this mat-
tered not, he felt himaelf compelled to stay. After the
llailor was gone, the merchant coolly reflected en what
might be theprobable reason of this singular mental im-
pulse. In reality, he was sorry and vexed at tllua ne-
glecting this important port of hia joumey, as he could
not waitfor the next market boe.t. To baniah his tedimn
and disappointment he went out for a walk, and toward~
eveniBg called at a friend's house. After sitting there a
couple orholll'll, a great noise was heard in the meet ;
inquiry waa made, and now they learnt that the Middle-
burg market boat, having been struck by lightning, had
sunk, and that not an individual wu sued I My read-
ers may think what an impression thia in~ made
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. lOi
upon the mind of the worthy traveller; he hastened
home, and in retirement, thank~d God for this gracious
wanting.
J. can solemnly vouch for the truth of this relation;
and, when rightly considered, one would think it was
impossible to explain it mechanically; but those who
explain away the wonders ofthe Bible, would, however,
soonaccomplish it; they would say, the heaviness of the
atmosphere had produced, in the mind ofthe merchant,
an obscure idea of danger, and that this idea had fully
cleveloped itself on seein~ the sailor. But in Rotterdam
there waa neither storm, nor a stormy atmosphere, only
one lingle dark cloud had been observed in the distance,
and my departed friend, with whom I ass~ted for
sel'2n yean, was not affected by the weather. ·But all
1uch remarks as these, are of no avail : he that will not
believe, will not be convinced, and he that is too proud
to abandon the sy11tem he has once adopted, and to let
himself be taught different, ·continually finds something
to object to, and one has never d,one with him. It cer"
tainly was a protecting angel, that whispered to the soul
ofmy friend, "Go not with them, or else some misfor-
tune will befall thee."
IB the aecond volume of " The Museum of ~n­
dera," chapter II. page 152, there is a stri\Unll,l\\%'UI.\\~~
1116 ON POBEBODINOS, &c.
of a presentiment, related by Madame de Beaumont, in
the 8th volume of the Universal Magazine for Art and
Nature. She says, " My whole family still rememben
an accident, from which my father was preserved by a
presentiment of danger. Sailing upon the river il one
of the common amusements of the city of Rouen in
:France. My father also took great pleasure in thele
water parties, and he seldom suffered many weeki to
pass over without enjoying it. On one occasion, be
agreed with a party to sail to port St. Omer, about ten
miles from Rouen. Uinner and musical instruments had
been sent on board the yessel; and every preparation
made for a pleasant excursion. When it was time to go
on board, an aunt ofmyfat her's,who was deafand dumb,
uttered a kind ofhowl, placed herselfat the door, blocked
up the way with her arms, struck her hands together,
and gave by signs to understand, that she conjured him
to remain at home. My father, who had promised him-
self much pleasure from this excursion, only laughed at
her entreaties ; but the lady fell at hil feet, and mani-
fested such poignant signs ofbrrief, that he at length de-
termined to yield to her entreaties, and postpone his
excursion to another day. He therefore endeavoured
to detain the rest also ; but they laughed at him for
being so easily persuaded, and set sail. Scarcely bad
the.cssel proceeded half the distance, before those on
board had the greatest reason to repent that they bAd
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 107
not followed his advice. ·The vessel went to pieces,
several lost their lives, and those that saved themselves
by swimming, were so much terrified at their narrow es-
cape, that they with difficulty got the better of it."
No mechanical explanation can apply to this re-
markable presentiment~ The warning angel found he
could work on no one better than the person who was
deaf and dumb, he therefore selected her for the execu-
tion of his commission.
In the same volume of"The Museum of W!Jnqers,"
page 153, there is an equally striking presentiment re-
lated, which the editor had from the lips of a credible
person. This individual had a friend who held an e:ffi-
cient situation in the country. Being unmarried, he
committed his domestic concerns to the care of a house-
keeper, who had 'b!len with him many years. His birth-
day arrived, he made many preparations for celebrating
it; and told his housekeeper, early in the morning,
that as the day was fine, she should clean out a certain
arbour in the garden, which he named, because he in-
tended to pass the day in it with his guests. Scarcely
had she received this commission, than she seemed quite
in a maze, and .delayed the fulfilment of it. At length
she entreated him rather to receive his guests in • of
the rooms of the house, for she had a ptesentime\\.\ \\\.\\.\.
108 ON JOB..BODlNGS, &c.
the arbour would that day be struck by lightning. He
laughed at her assertion, as there was no appearance of
a storm coming on that day, and on her renewing her
entreaties, he was only the more urgent that the arbour
he had pointed out should be made ready, that it might
not appear, that he gave way to her superstitioua feel-
ings. At length she went, and did as her master ordet:ed
her. The day continued fine, the company that had been
invited arrived, they went into the arbour, and made
themselves merry. In the mean time, however, clouda
had gathered in the distant horizon, and were, at length,
powerfully driven towards the place by the wind. rJte
company were so intent upon their entertainment, that
they did not in the least obaerve it : but scarcely was the
housekeeper aware that the storm was approaching, than
she begged her master to leave the arbour with his com-
pany, for ahe could not divest herself at all ofthe idea of
the lightning striking it. At first they would not liaten
to her, but she continued her entreaties unremittingly ;
and at length, as the storm approached with great vio-
lence, they suffered themselves to be induced to leave the
arbour. They had not befn in the room more than a few
seconds, when thelightning struck the arbour, and dashed
evuy thing that.had been left in it to pieces,
Blppoaing the houaekeeper to have had an urgent pre-
M!Dtiment ofanapproaching thundentorm, and t.he atroke
.,
ON :FOREBODINGS, &c. 109
ofthe lightning; yet such a foreboding cbuld not possi-
bly determine the plaee where it would strike. Thus,
evmts occasionally occur, which the materialist must
either entirely deny, or, if.he cannot do that, he must be
silent at them. The whole narative shows that .the men,
that were in the arbour, were destitute of the susceptibi-
lity requisite to hear the angel's voice: in the house-
keeper, therefore, the warning messenger found easier
entrance, and made use of this medium for the accom-
plishment of his philanthropic purpose•
• In the same work, I believe in the 4th chapter of
the 6th volume, the dream of the celebrated Mr. Von
Breukenhof, which has also been elsewhere made public,
is detailed. The truth of it is beyond a doubt. This
gentleman dreamed one night, that he was in a d~sert and
very dreary region, from which he longed to depart, he,
however, saw .a ·man who induced him to remain there,
and he soon after saw.this person, to whom he felt attach-
ed, expire.· At the lllime time he saw a numerous train
ofpeople, in a strange and unusual dress, and then he
awoke. The countenance, and the whole exterior of the
man, whom he saw in his dream, made such an impres-
sion npon his imagination, that he almost saw him when
awake. The whole scene was never obliterated from his
memory, during his whole life. Sometime afterwards,
bereeeivedacommisllion.from Frederick.U.lUng lli~-ro.oa.-
110 ON FOREBODINGS, &c.
sia,to proceed to Pomerania,in order tosuccourthose pro-
vinces which had been devastated by the RusSians, in the
seven years war. Brenkenhofjoumied thither, but found
the wretchedness so great, &1\d the more closely he ex-
amined into it, the greater he found it, that despairing of
beingable to renderany assistance,he determined to write
to the king, and inform him that he could not devise any
means, nor give any advice how the country might be
restored to its former state, particularly because of the
deficiency of inhabitants.
Occupied with these ideas, and whilst travelling to
a certain place, a person ~arne up to his coach, the sight
of whom stmck him with the greatest astonishment, fOr
his appearanc~ answered most exactly that of the man
whom h~ had seen in his dream. It is easy to suppose,
that he was highly pleased at the sight of him, and im-
mediately placed great confidence in him. He was the
magistrate of that part of the country, and spoke to Mr.
Von Brenkenhof in an encouraging manner, promised
to assist him with his advice and co-operation, and thus
induced him to commence the benevolent undertaking.
Some time afterwards, Brenkenhof learnt, that his
friend wa11 dangerously ill; he hastened to him, and
witnessed his dissolution. That very day, or the Col-
lowing one, he saw a great num'bft otmeu, 'flom.en, and
)
J
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 111
children. and whole families arrive. They were colonists
from Poland, who intended to settle in the devastated
province, and were thus instruments, by which Bren-
kenhof could carry his benevolent plans into execu-
tion.
Now ":hat was the real object ofthis presentiment!
It was not a warning from danger, nor did it give any
hint either to do any thing, or to leave something un-
done. At first sight, this dream, although it was a true
presentiment, app~ars devoid ofany definite object : but
if the matter be more closely examined, a very rl•mark-
able predetem1ination of providence is observable. If
Brenkenhof had not seen in a dream, the image of his
subsequent benevolent friend, and if it had not made
such an impression upon him, the sight of the man him-
self at his coach door, would not have struck him so for-
cibly, nor have given his whole soul such a lively im-
pulse to act for the prosperity bf that country. - The
whole dream was, therefore, an efficacious preparation
for a most benevolent undertaking. That this dream
was likewise produced by a good angel is evident, be-
cause it could not naturally have originated in a human
soul, which was in a healthy state ; for it is not to be
supposed, that Brenkenhof was in the slightest degree
a aomnambulist.
112 ON FOllEBODINGI, &c.
A most remarkable presentiment, by means of a
dream, is related in the second section ofthe first volwne
of the" Musewn of Wonders," and is to the following
effect.
A short time before the Princess Nagotsky of
Warsaw travelled to Paris, she had the following dream.
She dreamed that she .folilld herself in an unknown
apartment, when a man who was likewse unknown to
her, came to her with a cup, and presented it to her to
drink out of. She replied, that she was not thirsty,
and thanked him for his offer. The unknown indivi-
dual repeated his request, and added that she ought not
to refuse it any longer, for it would be the last she
would ever drink in her life. At this, she was greatly
terrified, and awoke.
In October 1720, the princess arrived at Paris in
good he8J.th and spirits, and occupied a furnished hotel,
where, soon after her arrival, she was seized with a vio-
lent fever. She immediately sent for the king's cele-
brated physician, the father of Helvetius. The phy-
sician came, and the princess showed striking marks of
astonishment: She wa1 asked the reason of it, and gave
for answer, that the physician perfectly resembled the
man, whom she had seen at Warsaw in a dream ; but
-.
--·
05 PO&BBODING&, &c, 1.13
Jdded she, " I shall not die this time, Co(this ia not the
tame apartment which I saw, on that occasion, in my
dream."
The princess was soon after completely restored,
and appeared to have completely forgotten her dream,
when a new incident reminded her of it in the most for•
cible manner. She was dissatisfied with her lodgings at
the hotel, and therefore requested that a dwelling might
be prepared for her in a convent at Paris, which was ac-
cordingly done. The princess removed to the convent,
but acarcely had she entered the apartment destined for
her, than she began to exclaim aloud, " It is all over
with me; I shall not come out of this room again alive;
for it ia the same that I saw at Warsaw in my dream.
She died in reality, not long afterwards, in the same
room, in the beginning of the year 1721, of an ulcer in
the throat, occasioned by the drawing ofa tooth.
This dream also proceeded from a good angel, who
wished to attract the attention of the princess to her ap-
proaching end.
But there are like'\tiae presentiments, which refer·
to such objects as do not appear to be worthy of the inter-
ference of a good spirit or angel. Instances of this are
to be found in " Moritz's Experimental Pi!cholo%'J;•
I
llli- Oill Fo&EBODiliGI, &e.
vol. i. -page 1. I will here insert the whole letter, as it
wa11 addreii80Cl~t& tlae edimr.
"You desire me to give you a written account of
'W!hat I latelyverbally related t0 you, rcgardmg the soul's
faculty of pruseieDee, A.a my experieJroe rests &Qlely
upon :dRams, 1 have oerialinly reason to apprehend, that
maBy will ·tab me tbr a fantastic dreamer; but if I can
con1D:ibate any tiling to the tTery ·useful ;object of your
wodt, it is110 matter, lin people think what they will. Be
thatU it may~ J IVOlleh mrthe truth and veracity of what
I shalllWW mo~e particularly relate.
" In the Jear 1?~8, whilst leaming the busiaesa of
· u •thecary i111 the. royal ~al estahl:ialrmenlt at Ber-
lin., I played iu the seventy-second drawing af tlw Prns-
sia.n Jmlll8rioal .lottery, whi(lh took place on the 30th of
May of the mme yea.r, and uecl upon ~ numb~• 22
and 60.
" .I:R the night prooecling the day 4lf dnuving,, I
dreamed, that towards twelve o'clock at :ooon, which is
the time when the lottery is generally drawn, the master
~i!Aeaary illent.tbwn to me te tellme tlsat I must come
up mhlm; onpg up a•ws, he mid me to go immedi-
akly tiD. Mr. MyliDB, thr..IUlctimaeea; .em the 0tiurr llille of
the-eatla, artfl IIBk Dimif he had disposed of the books
Ofi FOBIIBO»ll!l&l, &c. 115
i: ftich 1aad been left with him for sale : but that I DWBt
return speedily, becanae he waited for hi• a.uswer.
"That's just the thing, thoughtl, still dreamiitg, the
lot12ry will juat be drawing, aad as I have executed my
~on, I will run quickly to the general lottery of-
fice and see if my J:lU1Ilhen come out, (the lottery WM
drawn at that time in the open street,) if I only walk
quick, I shall be at home again soon enough..
"I wem t001e"-re immediately~ (still ill my dream,) in
compliance with the orders I had received, to Hr. My-
lius, the auctioneer, executed my commission, and after
reeeiv.i.Dg his au&Wer, ran hutily t.B tbe general lottery
offiee, tlll the Huuten~' Bri~. Here I fuund the Cllllto-
mary preparatioos, and a CQDeiderable number of •pecta·
*'>ho They had already begun to put the numberB into
t1te wheel. ud die moment I came up, No. 60 was ellt-
bibitetland called out. 0, thought I, it i8 a good omen,
that juat one of my own DUDlbem ahould be called out
the moment I arrive!
" As l had nat.mll.Ch time, il now wished for nothing
10mueh as that dley 'WOUld laaaten, as much as po11ible.
withtelling-in ~e remairiing nambera. At lungth they
were a! OCIIIllt.ed ln., aud now I saw them bind the .eyes
116 OK FOaEBODIXOI, &c.
ofthe boy belonging to the orphan achool, and the num-
bers afterwarda drawn in thP. customary manner.
" When the fim number was exhibited and called
out, it was No. 22. A good omen again, thought J,
No. 60 will al10 certainly come out. The second nam·
ber was drawn, and behold it was No. 60!
"Xow they may draw what they will, Mid I to
l(lme one who stood near me, my numbers ue out, I
have no more time to ipUI!; with that I turned mywlf
about. and ran directly home.
" Here I ~woke, andwaa u dearly coniCious of my
dream ns I am now relat:iRg it. If its natural connexion,
and the very particularperspicuity had not been 10 atrik-
ing. I shonld haT"e reguded it u nothing else than a
common dream, in the general sen• of the tenD. Bat
thili mnde me pay attention to it, and esc:ited my curi-
ullity 10 much, that I could acarcely wait tiU noon.
" At length it atruck eleven, but atill there was 011
appearance of my dream being fulfilled. It muck a
quarter, it atnu:k half-put elnen, aad atill there wu
no pro&.bility ofit. 1 had already gi•en up an hope.
wbea one of the work-people waupect.edly came to mt-.
..'!:·
ON PGREBODINGII, &o. 117
and told me to go up stairs immediately to the master
apothecary. ·I went up fnll of expectation, and heard
with the greatest astonishment, that I must go directly
to Mr. Mylius, the auctioneer, on the other side of the
c:astle, and ask him if he had disposed of the books in
auction, which had been entrusted to him. He told me
also, at the same time, to return qliickly, because he
waited for an answer.
" Who could have made more dispatch than I? I
went in all haste to Mr. Mylius, the auctioneer, executed
my commission, and after receiving his answer, ran as
quickly as.possible to the general lottery office, on the
Hunters' Bridge; and full of astonishment, I saw that
No. 60 was exhibited and called out, the moment I ar-
rived. .
" As my dream had been thus far so punctually
fulfilled, I was now willingto wait the end ofit, although
I had so little time ; I therefore wished for nothing so
much, as that they would hasten with counting·in the
remaining numbers. At length they finished. The
eyes of the orphan boywere bound, as customary, and it
is easy to conceive the eagerness with which I awaited
the fiw accomplishment of my dream.
" The first number was drawn and ca\\e\\. o\\.t,\\"1.\.~
tlS
behold it wa1 No. !2. The aeeond wu drawn, and tm.
was also as I had dreamed, No. 60.
" It DOW occurred to me, that I Iu.l alre~ ltlry.d
~ than my errand allowed; I therebe requ.el&ecl
the penon who was next to me in the crowd, to let me
pass. ' What,' uid cme of them to me, •will yau Del&
;wait till the numbers are all out?' No, aid I, my
numbers are already out, and they may now draw what
dtey pleaae, for ought I care. With that. I tumed about,
puahed through the crowd. and ra:za lulstily aDd joytully
home. Thus was the whole of my dream faUilled, not
only in subatauee, but literally and WJ'batim.
I
" It will, perhape, not be disagreeable to you, if 1
relate two other occurrences of a similar nature.
•• On the 18th of August, 1776, I dreamed I was
walking in the Yicinity of the Silesian Gate, and intended
to go home from thence, directly neroa the field, bJ the
Rockadorf or Dresden road.
" I fowul the field full of stubble, ud it aecmod u
if tbe com, that had stood there, had only been reaped
and housed a short time before. Thil wu really the
cue, although I had not previously seen it. On enter-
ing the Rickldorf road, I perceived t.~ IIOR\C verson~
119
lied cal.ltcted before one of the ftnt boullts, allll wue
looking up at it. I consequently supposed that aome-
thing new had occurred in or before the house, and for
t.W. reason, Ql\ coming up, I aaked the first person I
met, ' WhatiJ the matter here1' He ans:Rred wita p-eat
indiifer6JW:e, ' The lot.ttll'y ia drawn.' 'So.' said I;. • lis
it dawn already, what nlliD~ra are out' 'Thue they
ltalld,' replied he, and pointed with his fi.ngtr to the
door of a sOOj> tW waa ia thQ hou~W, which I now pq-
ceivea fGr tbe irst time.
" I looked at the door, and found that the numbers
were ~ up, QD. a lilack bw:der rctWld tJw, d111or, as is
frequeatly the caaa. In order to ascertain if there was
really a shop, with a receiving hou~~e i'or U1e lottery, at
the com.mem:ement of the Ricksdorfroad, l did not think
it too much trouble to go there, and found that this was
really the case. To my great vexation, I found that
only o.ne of my :Dumbers had come out. I looked over
the numbers once more, in order not to forget them,
and then wen~ horne disappointed.
"On awaking, I was JUndered, by an accidental
naiae, from immediately recoilecting my dream, but
alu~~y afterwards it again occurred to me ; and after a
littlerdection, I remembered it as clearly aa I have now
120
related it, but found it difficult to recollect all the ftye
numbers.
" That No. 47 was the first, and No. 21 the lklCODd
• of the numbers, I remembered perfectly well; that the
third which followed was a 6, I was also certain, only I
was not confident whether the 0 which I had eeeu here-
abouts, belonged to the 6 or to the following number 4,
which I also remembered very diatinctly to have eeen;
and as I was not certain of this, it might have been just
as well 6 and 4 alone, as 60 and 40.
" I was the least confident as to the fifth number,
that it waa between 50 and 60 I was certain, but which I
could not precisely determine. I had already laid mo-
ney upon No. 21, and this was the number, which, ac-
cording to my dream should come out.
"As remarkable as my dream appeared to be in
other respects, yet I was diffident ofit, from being una-
ble to remember all the five numben. Although I was
quite .:ertain, that amongst the sixteen numben men-
tioned, that is, those between 50 and 60, and the six
previously ~dicated, all the five, which I had aeen in
my dream, were contained; and although there wu ltiJl
time enough to secure the numben, yet it did not IIUit
ON !'OltEBODINGS, &e. 121
me, on aeeount of the considerable sum it would require
to stake upon all the sixteen numbers. 1 therefore con-
tented myself with a few ambs and temes, and had, be-
rides this, the disappointment of selecting a bad con-
junction of numbers.
"The third day afterwards, the 21st of August,
1776, the lottery was drawn, it was the 215th drawing,
and all the five numbers which I had seen in my dream,
came out exactly; namely, ~0. 4. 21. 52. 42., and I
now remembed that No. 52 was the fifth of those which
I had seen in my dream, an:d which I could not previ-
ously recollect with certainty.
" Insteadofsome thousand dollars, I was now com-
pelled to be contented with about twenty.
" The third, and, for the present, the last occur-
:enee of this kind, which I shall relate, was as follows.
"On the 21st of September, 1777, I dreamed that
Lgood friend of mine 'rilited me, and after the conversa-
ion had turned upon the lottery, he desired that he
might draw some numbers out of my little wheel of for-
rune which I had at that time. ·
"He drew several numbers, with the inten\\au ()t
ON FOUBQDIMGI, lkc,
staking money upon them. When ht had c1oDe clrawiaJ,
I took all the numbers out of the wheel, laid tlaem be·
fore roe upon the table, and said to him, the numblr
which I now take up, will certainly come· out a& tile
next drawing. I put my hand'into the heap, and dnw
out a number, unfolded it, and looked at it: it was Yery
plainly 25. I was going to fold it up, and put it again
into the wheel, but that very mOJJlOIM, I awoke.
"Having so clear a recol.lectioo oC my drum. • I
have now related it, I had much eonidenceiD tJ.. o..,..
bar, and tberetOre staked so much upon it, u to be
satisfied with the winningt; but t.wo bown before &be
lottery was drawn, I recch·ed my money back from the
lottery agent, with the news iliat my n'DIIlber wu com-
pletely filled up. The lottery wae drawn on the 2t&h
of September, and the number really came out.
••Although I very willingly allow, aad - weU
aware, that many· and perhaps the generality of dreams
arise from causes, which are founded merely in thebody,
and therefore can have no further eignificaUoo; yet I be-
lieYe I have been conviuc:ed by repeated esperieoce. &baa
there are not uofrequeatly dreama, iD the Ol'iiinand exia-
tcnce of which", the body, aa such, baa DO p.rt; and to
tht'se, in my opinion. belong the three iostanca above
mea&ioDed.
OK I'OBJIBODINGI, &c. li3
"I do not think, that tile contents of these dreams
oapt to give occasion to any one to judge wrongfully,
-'>r Gtherwiae, I could ju1t aa well have selected others;
aut I &ave placed them together precisely because of
&bir aimilarity.
" Chriat. Knape,
"Doet. of Philosophy, Medicine and Surgery."
I have likewise aaught out these thl-ee presenti-
ments, because it is impossible to conceive of any de-
cept.ion of the imagination in them, or of any external
concateDatioa of cir4lumstances., that might have afford-
ed the soul materials to COBjecture ;. and finally, because
they have all the qualities ofhistoric authenticity.
I must now insert another letter, which a very
worthy preacher in a town ofsome note, adressed to me.
" :Being aware from aoJ:pething you have lately pub·
liahed, that you have the intention of writing a u-eatiae
upon the aoul's faculty of preaentimeat, I take the liberty
of aending a cont.&ion to it, which is the mqre to be
relied on, because I am almost proud of acting the seep-
lie on this subject.
"When I waa a boy of 16 or 16 years of age, being
once engaged iu coiJver&'ltion ou iadiiimmt t.u\>l"~u, \.
124 Olf POR.EBODINOB, &e.
was on a sudden beside myself, during which, my imagi-
nation pictured to me a thief under the escort of soldien
and peasants, whose very dress I marked, in as lively a
manner as if the circumstance had really occurred, 10
that I interrupted the conversation, and said, 'They are
bringing a thief.' I was laughed at: but about ten
minutes afterwards, there really came a prisoner, exactly
in the manner in which I had seen him in spirit. It
was a sudden trance, in which I saw the vision.
" Besides several presentiments of no importance,
which my wife has had in her dreams, I will only ad-
duce one, which is highly remarkable, and whieh Morits
has therefore inserted in his ' Maguine of Experimen-
tal P1ychology.'
" Six weeks before the event took place, my wife
dreamed that she was travelling with some QJle. On
the road, this person fell ill ; she ne,·ertheleu continued
her journey. The individual became worae, and she
requested an old woman, with a very forbidding physi-
ognomy, to give her something to •t, but received no-
thing but bread and water. The persod, ahortly after.
wards, was confined to bed, and waa very weak ; a
dergyman appeared, at whose stupidity, those present
were disgusted; abe 1111w her Jyiug dead, saw the mourn-
~n enter the room, heard the hymn. ~\:a. ~ 'tftet.
OX I'OilBBODtNGS, &c. 123
'I die in Jesus &c.' aaw the mutes in attendanre, which
ia here by no means customary, and aix weeks after this,
every circumstance was moat minutely fulfilled. She
related all this to me the next morning after having had
the dream: it is therefore no sub$equent invention, nor
enriched with additions.''• The remainder of the letter
does not belong here.
In all these presentiments, there ia · no apparent
object in view; certainly in the winning in the lottery,
Providence had of course a hand, because both enter
deeply into the man's sphere of action, and have much
induence upon hia fate, and upon that of those with
whom he ia connected. But in Dr. Knape's presenti-
ments, something singular.ia observable, they were of no
use to him, and one sees clearly, that Providence over-
ruled the C0!1-sequences of his foreknowledge.
In the first instance, Knape had already staked
upon the numbers 22 and 60, when he dreamed and
foresaw that these numbers would come out first. To
all appearance, the,., this presentiment was entire-
ly devoid of aim.
But the second dream manifestly shows the inter-
ference of Providence. Xnape saw all the ... numbe1'1i
• See Note 8.
126 OM POilEBODIJC81, &c.
very clearly ; the preaentiment wu complete: but u
it did not accord with the divine will, concerning him,
that' he should at once come to the possesion of 10 . . .
a BUm ofmoney, Providence oocaaioned a noise on bil
awaking, or made use of it to .draw his attention away
from the figures, and he no longer preciaely k11ew what
they were.
His third dream, with reference to this poiat, i1
extremely remarkable. Knape, on awaking, had a
very distinct recollt"etion ofNo. 25. He therefOre 1takecl
upon it three days before the drawing, and coneequcml1·
<-"&rly enough, and yet it waa struck out hy the lottery
age!!t, and Dot received. For what reiLIOIJ, Knape
does not mention. Be that as it may, it wu not the
will of Providence that he should win upon this number,
and the presentiment was unavailing.
Nordoes there seem to be any object in view,in the
presentiment, which the clergyman had in hie yeadt :
probably it was to make an cfflcieDt impl'eMion apoa
his mind, that might prepare it lli,.h&tlu'y Nflectbt•
.
The remarkable dream ofthe elergym8Jl'• wife coil·
tains a very complete preeentiment; bat eeell'lelibwiae
to be desdliae of any partieular·ebject. 'f.·e Clllllwt
bowner kno"', whether in \m-. ...._\\\I& 1.)\\\u Wnilar
OJII' FOli.EaODINGS &c. 1
, _
_,
cues of presentiment. they ha\·e not an c:ffect upon the
inward man, and the train of his ideas, tltou!ll rtuf p.r-
nirled 6.11 us; and therefore some definite end. This
~-to me, at leaat, more than probable.
But what say the matl'ria.list, the rationalist, and
the enlightened christian to this7 The materialist must
lay laia hand upon his mouth at the relation of all pre-
11118N of this n~ture ; for according to this system, no
1111111 O&Jl know or decipher -more ot' the future than what
he can actually infer from existing causet~, which are ob-
ri~us to the senses, and their necessary or probable ef-
&ds. But in the examples adduced above, neither of
dtelle ha•e a"Ry thing to do. These presentiments even
stand in direct contradiction to such a philosophy ; ac-
eerdiug to its principles, they are not possible, ·and yet
they are real and true; hence it follows with apodictical
certainty, that those principles are entirl'ly false. In
cm1er 1o explain myself clearly and satisfactorily upon
thil "1/f/ery important subject, I will heore attempt to draw
a mmplete and eoneluive deduction with reference to
IIIia oheeure subject ;dWy l'eaden will therefore _pa.nlon
me,ifi recapitulate aeftl'&l things whiea I have already
....
MaR;by l!MIIl!ISof JD1tedy; is o~ the ell:-
isting visible world; but his human soul, or ita spirit, •
128 OM JOREBODJKOI, &e.
with its immortal luminous body, is organized for the
inl'isible world.
The humiUl soul, so Ion« u this mortal life CODti•
nucs, is exiled into this mechanical body. It attaina .U
its knowledge in time and space, through the mediwn
of its sensible organs; and as it hu not rationally, in it·
self, or in its own nature, any other sourcea of know-
ledge, it is impossible for it to judgeand concludeother-
wise than according to those laws whioh it gives to tbe
senses, by means of its corporeal organization.
He that n:i/1 not believe in tlte God of &he Chris-
tians, nor in the immortality of the soul, in the ~ of
his own inward conviction, may make \rimself easy in
his unbelief; he needs nothing more. But the soul that
hung~rs after perfection, and after a continual increaat
of blessedness, needs more than this transitory, aenaible
world affords. But this additional something it is un-
able to find in the whole sphere of itl! knowledge. P~
ple may say what they please of the physical proof of
the existence of God, yet the .Wt is ne\·er the true
God, but only a supremely perf'ect, almighty, omnipre-
SL'nt, ali-good and all-wise man, whose whole creatioll,
togctlu•r with the whole human race, is but a maclilile.
which go9 itaelf by ita oma concreated powen.
OK I'ORBBODllUK, &c, 129
The soul does not know itself, nor is it possible for
it to know itself, from its own sensible sources of know-
ledge. . It wishes eternal duration, united with ever in-
creuing perfection and bleuedness. The motive to this
lies in its own nature, it is created with it; left to itself,
it is ignorant of the true means of attaining it: it there-
Core naturally seeks them in the world in which it exists,
that is, in the visible world, but there it finds them not.
It hastens from one at1ainment and from one enjoyment
to another, but is never satisfied; till atlength it is with-
drawn, by death, from the visible world, and those whom
it bas left behind, know not what is become of it.
Here and there an individual may be found, bu$
scarcely one in a million, who reflects on the matter fur..
ther. He diacovera a track, pursues it, and makes pro-
gress. He sees clearly, that the world in which he lives,
and that he himself also, must have had an origin; the
idea of a deity occurs to him ; he draws inferences from
his works ; and the result is, a most perfect man, who
thet). becomes his god; and he feels also that he must
venerate him, and be!:!Dme like him. A law then unfolds
itself in his mind, whose formula is, " that which thou
wilt not that others should do to thee, dO not to them;
and what thou wishest others to do to thee, do thou also
to them." On furth~ reflection, he a;.ifngth arrives
where reaJJOn, in the present age, is atriAb-, ~\U\.1:)~-
x
130 OX FOU.OD..GI, &c.
phical illumiDation; that is, at deism, then at fatalism,
afterwarda at naturalism, and finally at athdism. En-
lightenedreaaon left to itself, and not under the guidaDce
of revealed religion miUI, neceuarily, at length arrive at
thill. •
Meanwhile, the innate impulae to perlection and
happiness urges the poor imprisoned soul onward from
one aenaible attainment, and from one senaual eujoy-
ment, to another, yet still it is never satisfied; it feela
that it is not in it. true element, yet k.nowa no other;
and it now makes ~hoice of one of the two roada that
stand open to it; i.t enjoys either aa much aa it can en-
joy, or it atruggles with fate, bean every advene occur-
ring circumstance courageously, and then pauea over at
death, to the great and unknown future.
There are many that pereeive and are well aware,
that nothing more irrational or aimleu can be CODCeived
than the annihilation of the aoul at death. That a being,
whose inilate impulse is infinite duration, perfection, and
enjoyment of the supreme good, -..Jd, in a lew yean,
in which it has attained none of ita objects, c:eue to be;
what absurdity ! An only b&U'-aober reason euily ac-
knowledges this, but aa generally nothing more is leeD
or heard of tby»Dl, afterdeath, ucept when it it is here
and there aaict:'lbat a dead man hu lhewn bimaelC, and
ON PORI!BOi>INGS &c. 131
is returned again; the mere rational man, or the mate-
rialist, knows not a word of the further fate of his soul
afterdeath ; he dreams and supposes, but always accord-
ing"to his mechanical principles, which he has abstracted
from the visible world, and which are, therefore, totally
false, with respect to their application to another world,
in which spirits with their free-wtll are at home.
This is the natn~ path of human' reason, which
she pursues when left to herself, and when thinking con-
sistently. Now we would suppose that mankind must
have necessarily fallen upon this path in the first century
of their cultivation, because it is so very natural and
agreeable to rea110n : quite the contrary; if we as'k the
history of all nations,. itgivesus'quite a difterent answer.
Men were then acquaintedwith the invisible world; they
believed in beings superior to themaelves, who in grada-
tion were more and more glorious, and connected at last
with God or with divinities, as the Supreme Being, the
origin and creator of all things. ·This view of the sub-
ject is the spirit and basis of all the mythologies or divi-
nity-systems· of every nation that was in any manner
cultivated•. · Eaeh ·particular nation then clothed this
fundame~tal principle after its own character and favour-
ite pursuits; in every nation there were, from time to
time, persons ofgreat genius, who beautifi4ld the picture
by their glowing imagination; and then aro~e, \lk~W\oa~,
132 ON. PO&EBODINGS, &c.
great benefactors to mankind and mighty heroes, who
were honoured after death as gods. Belief in God and
immortality prevailed universally.
I now ask every reader who loves the truth, hov.·
was it that mankind arrived so early at this belief in
God, in !ID invisible world, and in immortality? Cer-
tainly not by the path of reason; for that leads directly
away from all this ; perhaps by means of imagination,
that ever ready parent of new nonentities. This might
easily be supposed; bnt on closerexamination, thinup-
position vanishes and sinks into nothing; for,
First-Ideas which are real and true, lay at the
foundation of every image of the imagination; for how
can it figure to itself, or create any thing for which ithas
no materials? After previously knowing something of
a God, and of a world of spirits; after knowing this, it
decked outthese fundamental principles withimagesfrom
the invisible world: and,
Secondly-All nations that are in any degree cul-
tivated, posaess the fundamental principle of G<,Ml, of a
wor~d ofspirits, and of the immortality of the soul. All
,grtt in thia pnre and abstract idea. But from whenc:e
havc theyderifrl it1 Naturally, by a revelation of God,
r>f the world of Bpirita, and of apparitions of deeeucd
ON !'OB.EBODINGI, &c. 133
individuals, which they had either learnt from their fore-
fathers, or experienced themselves. The idea is unna-
tura] and impossible, that all men should receive an im-
pression of a thing, that is not at all obvious to the
senses.
We find the origin of this fundamental principle of
God, of the world of spirits, and of the immortality of
the sonl, in the earliest ages in the east, in the cradle of
hnmanity. ·Mosel!, the ·most ancient historiographer of
mankind, relates to us the origin of the visible world and
its inhabitants; the first revelations of God, of the world
of spirits, and of immortality; the first history of the
earth and its inhabitants; and all so entirely without any
appearance of fabrication, in a manner so simple, sub-
lime, and becoming the Deity, that every uncorrupted
heart must exclaim, " This man relates to us truths,
that are eternal and divine!":
Moses was brought up in Egypt. The Egyptians
were, at that period, the most cultivated nation upon
earth. The .Parses, who became so famous, were later;
for their founder, Zerduschd or Zoroaster, both the first
· and second, were scholars of the Egyptian priesthood.
All other nations, even the Greeks, flourished rimch
later. With all their cultivation, the Egyptians possessed
a very corrupt idea of. God, of the spiritual. 'Wc.tld.,a"d.\"\{
134 ON FOBBBODlNGI, &c.
immortality, or, in one word, of divinity and religion:
for they made oxen and other animals symbols of the
deity, and these were then divinely honoured by the
common people. Their morals were equally aa corrupt;
in the time of Moses, they were already deeply 8Uilk.
He hadnot therefore learnt his theology from the Egyp-
tians, although he was acquainted with their mental cul-
ture; but he had learnt it ofhis fore.fathen, of the patri·
archal family, and • by his own experience, haviug,
himselffrequent intercourse with G~
The theological fundamental ideaa of Godt of the
spiritual world, and of immortality, proceeded therefore
from the 1irat of men; were handed down through the
patriarchal family to Moses, by him to the people of Ja.
rael, and by them, through manifold redected rays of
light,, in a partial manner also to the Greeks, Romans.
and other nations, which is abundantly e\·ident from
their mythologies; until at length, JcsUJ Christ, the
God-man, completed the revelation of God to man, by
I'Xhlbitiug this theological idea in ita most pure and per·
feet state; and by shewing the infallible way which man
mUJt pursue, in order to satisfy hia central impulae after
infinite perfection and ever increasing bleuednesa.
The fundamental points of this theology, in ita pre-
IICnt and moat perfect form, such as Christ and ~
OJI I'OB.J::JODI:M680 &e. 135
apostles, on establishing ehristianity, left behind them to
all hil true wonhippen and confeaaoni, as divine and
eternal truth, and aa the ground oftheir faith, consists,
aa far as it relates to my present purpose, in the follow-
iDg ideaa.
.God the Father, the almighty ereator·of heaven and
earth, senthis only begotten son,. the ~GOS, the organ
by which he reveals himself to all created beings, upon
earth to beoome man, and.to redeem the human race,
which had allen from the state in which it was created.
Thia redempt;ion he accomplished by a painful COU1'118 of
life and .mferiag, he· tl)en &role triumphant over death
and bell, .and over all fallen apirita or angels, to the
go.'rernment of all worlds ; to the right lied or'hi1i hea-
veDly.Fathel". :.He received all power·in heaven and o'n
eafth;..ancl ia;7oabd •hall·:COiltinu to be, soie regent of
tbe ..Orid;·rui'filall hiB fbea,•and the·enemies ofman, aii.d •
finally death itself be overcome. The Holy Spirit, whoin
he has sent ~. operates the moral perfecting or sancti-
ficati~ ofDlall, llihen the latteil does not·resist him, but
ub tor10m -.tith ft.tth and fenour; but the.government
of mankind ia exercised by the spiritual world; through
the :medium of good Mgela and· spirits, who, without
trenching upon the freedom of man's will, and entirely
without his knowledge, seek, by every means, to infiu-
enoe his freewill according to the L<ml's 'ftill.; \h.~~ ~\\1:)
•
136 Olf :roa:JJIOi)UfGI1 8rc,
believe in the Lord and his word, and regulate theirJiyes
according to it, then become likewiee eo-operatiDg inatna-
.ments in the government of the world, the end of which
is, gradually to overcome the powerful inten:niugliDg in·
fluence of evil spirits and wicked men, to deliver the
earth, or the whole human race from their bondage, and
finally to expel, entirely, every thing that. em, from
the kingdom of nature.
The material or viaible world ia governed accord-
.ing to our human conceptions, which are CODfined within
the boundariea of time and apace, by ita own iDDatt>
powers ; but the rational or apiritual world to which,
u it regard~ the aoul, men aleo belong, ia governed by
lawa. In the former, the operation ofpower ia ofnecee-
aity; but in the latter, obedience to the law depeuda
upon the freewill, to which, however, the diviDe goftl'll-
ment seta bounda, when it doea not accord with ita pur-
poaea.
Although good and evil apirita polleA a powerful
influence in the governmentofthe world, yet it ia ltrietly
forbidden, in the divine laws of the Old and New Tes-
tament, to aeek any acquaintance with them, or to place
ouraelvca in connexion with, and relation to them, and
it is just u little permitted, for citisena of the world of
apirita, visibly to maniteat themaelvea ao thole, who arc
-~lt rOllBB()])JifGII1 &ct. 137
atillin the present state of existence, withoutthe express
command or permission of the Lord.
~· therefore, that seeks intercourse with the invi-
sible world, sins deeply, and will aoon repent of it;
whilat he that becomes acquainted with it, without his
Olrll aeeking .and by divine guidance, ought to beg and
pray for wisdom, courage, and strength; for he has need
ofall these; and let him that is introduced into such a
eonnexion, by means ofillness, or the aberration of his
·physical nature, seek, by proper means, to regain his
health, and detach himselffrom intercourse with spirits.
Such, my dear readers! ia the pure, true,· and
evaugelical doctrine of God and of the world of spirits;
and mCh is the fundamental priDciple of my ~ystem of
theocratic liberty, or of my theocratic philoaophy. In
all that belongs to the present life and to the visible
world, mechanic philosophy must be our rule and crite-
rion of thinking and·deciding : in respect to this, reason
must judge according to logical laws and be our sole
guide; but in all matters relative to the spiritual. world,
ilhe must judge according to the laws of liberty and di-
vine revelation ; becauae man, in the present life, is
only organized for the visible world, and he has there-
fore no data for his·principles ofreasoning in the spiritual
138
world, until he be divetted of thia rude and mechujcwl
body.
Fear not, my dear friendtl that I am again)tpeniug
the door to tupentition ; for I pointedly maintain, tb8t
we ought to pay no attention to the world of spiritl md
itt operations. We are referred to the ward ofGod. tD
the Lord. and to his tpirit, and have nothing to do with
llllY other apiritl.
The infidelity and that falling-away, whiela • p.
nerally preY8il. have removed good angeh ad apirila
from u1, and have attracted towards Ul eril apiritl, who
however take good care not to make them.~elTea copi·
able; under the piee o£ uaaual e:tFecta they Cfln'! 011
their baleful purpo.a. and tlnu Keelerat.e the ~
fOI'judgml!llL Thia ia my theory of'the~ ol.prila;
in accordance with the prioc:iplel of' which. I aa DOW
.ole to &DSWel' the quntion, "What IDDit be belined
ur cliabelined o£ prean.timmtl, 1iliou, ad appui-
tiODs~"
\\"be any one, who has DO ~jon to fia-
sight, that it. no dneloped faculty of' preaDtimeD1. il
WUIIMd o£ daugft, by an UDbown. ~: it occun
by c:ommaad uf the di'riDe govetWDtBt, tbmap. tbe
o• i'OIUI:BQDINGS, &c. 139
medium of an angel, who makes use of a direct impres-
sion upon the mind, according as he can attain his end
in the best and easiest manner. To this class belong'
the first instances oftrue presentiments, which I have
related above. Ifit be asked, "'Why are not all men
thus warned of danger?" I answer, when the indivi-
dual himself can forsee and suppose dariger, no presenti-·
mentis necessary, and equally so, when a misfortune
is applicable to the aim of divine government. A pre-
sentiment is thenalone necessary, when the approaching
miaf'ID'bme .c:annot otherwise be avoicled, and yet is not
&IIi~.to the end in view, and must therefore.be by all
m.eaaa prevent.;d. .
The dream of Mr. Von Brenkenhof was also the
production of a warning angel, because he could not be
ind~ prepared, and streugthened for the active assis-
tance or so many Wlfortunate beings in any other man-
ner; and it was also an angel, that early made known
to the Princess Nagotaky the circumstances which should
accompany her decease, to give her a hint, what she had
then to .do. But the world to come must eventually
unfold, why these things take place by means of an an-
gel, and in such a manner.
With respect t.Q the presentiments of Dr. Knape,
the case is very different: these had their origin in him-
140 · ON :FOREJIODINGI, &e.
11elf; I will explain myself more minutely upon this
, point.
It is clear, that angels were not employed in the
matter, because the presentiments were useless, Provi-
dence rendering the object of these unavailing. The
case is as follows.
It is evident from the theory I have laid down, that
the human soul approaches the world of spirits in the
degree that it divests itself ofthe organs by which it acts
upon the body, and the latter upon it. This may take
place in various ways, and in a variety of degrees,
from the smallest presentiment, to complete detachment
in death.
When the individual has a natural tendency to any
species, or to a certain degree of that detachment of the
soul from the body, I call this kind, or this degree, the
faculty ,ofpresentimen~, which when it is active or ope-
rates, I then denominate, the developed faculty of pre-
sentiment•.
This kind of faculty of presentiment of the' soul,
rests on a predominantinclination to any particular thing:
for instance, he that takes pleasure in playing in the
lottery, or that is inspired with a curiosity to know fu-
0.!1 FOJI.EBODINGS1 &c. 141
ture things, or such as are doing at a distance, and pos-
seasei at the same time that disposition, such a one de-
velops his faculty of presentiment, only in reference to
this object; he is susceptible of that to which his soul
baa a tendency, and this BWiceptibility is in proportion
to such disposition, as also the degree ofits obscurity or
clearness.
However comprehensible and rational all this may
be, yet the chiefdifficulty still remains; and that is, how
is it possible for a person in the visible world, or how
can finite spirits, all of whom, as limited beings, develop
their ideas in succession, and consequently in time and
space, foreknow future things?
I answer, that as the free actions ofmen in the vi-
sible world, are guided by ~he world of spirits, without
infringing how~ver upon _their liberty, consequently the
arrangements with respect to all the actions of individu-
als, single nations, and the whole hunan race, from the
meanest to the most important, are there made and
brought into exercise. .An individual, therefore, who
possesses a developed faculty of presentiment, may be
susceptible of the result of those arrangements, it being
in some way made obvious to his senses, and by this
means presented to him in a perceptible form.
142 ON FORI!BODJNGS, &e.
It is utterly impossible that there ean be any blind
chance, any mere casualty. The moat'important eventa
generally spring from the most minute and trifling oc-
currences. Not a hair, not a sparrow falls to the ground,
without the will of ~od. The world of spirits is busy
at the gaming table, and at the most forbidden actions,
and the most horrible vices. Evil spirits operate to
perdition, inflame the passions, and allure to vice, and
the good seek, under the direction of the divine govern-
ment, to promote virtue, to encourage us mconflicting
against the passions, and to deter ua from 'Yi~. Thus
it is comprehensible how a developed faculty ofpresen-
timent may forsee something that is shortly to take
place, but not what is remotely future, because it is un-
consciously susceptible of the arrangements for the for·
mer, but not for the latter; from which obscure sensa-
tion, the inward senses form a perceptible and tangible
result, of which the soul is clearly sensible.
Here the great distinction also manifests itself be-
tween these natural preaentinents and divine predictions,
of which I will subsequently treat at large, in its proper
place.
Hitherto we have only spoken of sueh individuals,
who have either no developed faculty of prcsentimmt,
:.
I
143
iX wl whose preuges, therefore, proceed from angels; or
:!! orauch, who only seldom, and in particular instances,
r- deYelop their faculty of presentiment, and forebode
• . 801118thing, which hal often neither meaning nor worth.
But we now come to a description of people, whose
faculty of presentiment ia so sJ.eveloped, that they fre-
quently and repeatedly fortell that which is future. These
again may be divided into various classes.
There are individual•, who have long devoted them-
selves to a life of unfeigned piety, and who by walking
beCore GOd, and by .inward intercourse with him for
many years, develop at length their faculty ofpresenti-
ment; that ia, when they have, besides this, a natural
tendency to it. These pious souls look with an enlight-
ened eye into the spiritual world, and into futurity; but
their regards have always reference to those objects,
which are their favourite ones; for' instance, when such
characters occupy themselves much with the book of Re-
velationa, they receive light upon the subject ; or ifthey
refiect much and intently upon the state of man after
d~ath, their enlightened eye then fixes itself upon the
subject, &c. But as the most devout and holy souls,
with all their exalted and purified inward powers, are
, still in the body, and though their sensible imagination
be irradiated by this divine light, yet they cannot always
distinguish the .knowledge they derl.ve from. t\\.e "'2\:i\.~~
L
144
world, which is therefore correct, from that which their
lively imagination produces. Consequently from heMe
proceed those errors and mistakes which 110111etimet
creep into their discourses or writings. When snch per-
sons prophesy, there is much that is afterwards fulfilled,
and much that is not, for tho reason 1 have jut adclnced
above.
Now from these remarks, which are certainly cor-
rect, proceed two important fundamental duties.
}'irst.-That such devout and holy iDdividaaJI
ought by no means-to presume upon this spiritual gift.
nor to regard it asa divine re\·elation. Ifthey have a view
of the future, or a consciousness of that which is takillft
}>lace at a distance, or if they derive knowledge from the
world of spirits, their first thought ought certainly to be,
" According to the divine order of things, I ought to
know nothing of this; but as it has been revealed to me
without my seeking it, and by divine pennisaion, the
question now is, whether it be intended solely for my·
11elf, or for some far advanced eouls, or even for the
public in general." Here prayer,watching, and self-denial
are requisite; for the tempter now shews himself as an
angel of light; be gently and imperceptibly insinuates
into the man's mind. the idea that be mnat certainly
hare made great progression in bo\iueu, and. be l!flrticu-
lldy .cceptable to God, who thua deip-to favour·hfm:
wilh Ida nm:latioDI, and eBdue bOn with &he prophetic
giftff!_ 'Huch experience is niqldaite here, m order to
tab thiS hisaing ofthe..8eJ118Dt fol'wha& it really is, abd
to ICIIJ'e the nnemout reptile aWity; by an inntd- ap-
pru.ch to the crucified-Redeemer.· lTay) the-tempter is
W!rf often complimented, te the followfng-efl'eot, " ·Ex-
cue me, I.am much--too far behind, much too unworthy
oho aoble a gift, &c•.;" ·whilst, in the mean time, the
gilded poison baa·been IIW8llowed down.- A feigned hu-
mility baa taken :pOst in tbe aoul, and very dark and
plintbl' experiences are then required, in order to lead
I1Mih an indimual· baek- again to true self-denial and
1110rtiflcation.
'Hy readen will easily'perceiTe of what infiirlte im~
portance·this subject iJ, of which I am now treating ; for
if &he enlightened aoul· be not acquainted with the tr:ne
nature of the faculty of presentiment, nor knows that it
may be developed in characten the most corrupted and
immoral, the individual mayeuily miatake it fOr a divine
rwelation, and by pretRUDing upon it, gradually·fall
away; arid -ftnaliy. periah.
SecoaMiy;-'l'he duty is equallyofprimary. import.;.
anoe to e"'erychristian~ 'WJ~aeover he obiervea &liy thing
of' an extraoid:iiiary· n•~. nch aa men, 'IIIO-m.~'\\., ()l. ·
r.
children, either ~g into trances, orbeing in any mao·
ner under mental excitation, aqd en~ into a atate of
aupernatural, elevation, he must act with great c~­
epection, and not look upon it aa any thing divine.. la
the beginning, aw:h penons often apeak aublime thiDp
that are founded in tlle Word of God; they thea pia
followen, and probably many are converted by them;
but in the aequel, the acberaary of all that ia good ~
rally mixet him.lelfin the matter, pa¢cularly whea auch
aomnambulistl ~ simple people, who are clettitute of
the requisite religious knowledge, and then enoaeou,
pernicious, and often monatrous aecta ariae. Only call
to mind the horrid eventa, which happened at tlle com-
mencement of the present century, in t\le cantoo of
Berne, in Switzerland, when through the fanaticism of s
young female, which originated in trances, her old and
venerable grandfather waa strangled by meant of her
fo~owers, i11 ortkr tllot /ail •o•d nrigllt 6c 14t1td, bec:aUie
laat Eaat.er waa to be the day pfjudgment!
I exhort all that read thia, or hear it read, iD the
name of the moat II8.CJ'ed majeaty of our most bleued
king, 1esus Chriat, to be extrem~ly 1Uipiciou1of alliUCh
extraordinary appearancea, preaentimenta, trancea, and
prediction~; to .examine well uad minutely ~very thing ;
uot to look upon tho10 boob, whjch even ~ua IOWa in
auch a •tate have writ&en, unconditionally u a divine
8lf. PO&J:BODllfG81 &e.
revelation; and not to believe their prectietiona, but to
be persuaded, that though aome things may be fu1filled,
others will not, and even the whole may not. In the
present very remarkable period, the prince o{darkneu
has reeoune to every pouible means ofdeceptioJ_t, to oc-
casion the falling away ofthe true worshippen of Chriat:
he assumes the most deceitful forms of light, that he may
1Ulllettle pious·soula; hence I find it so neeeuary to be
continually warning my fellow-countrymen against pry-
ing into the revelationa·of" the Bwle, in order to learn
what is ahortly to take place. Of this we know U· much
aa is necesaary for ua, and it is IUfllcient if we are always
attentive to observe how they ue fulfilled by degrees. Jt
generally happens, that aome false spirit joins iuelf to
such inquisitive people, which ~ey confiden~y beliel"e
to be the Spirit of God ; they iejoice at this diatiBguished
favour, and then regard all their reveries as inspiration
and ofdivine auggestion. The deceiver leack them im-
perceptibly away from the tmth : and when at length
these'dreals ue not aceompliahed, their faith suft"ers
sbipwmck. and this ia just what the tempter aeeb.
:BeiDgmnrilliDgto bow ay thing but Iesua Chriat,
aDdhim crucified, ia atpreseataa imperiouduty. He will
thea grant us that knowledge which ie needfal for ua, oa
ewq oc:c.ion.
A dear .a~ valued taeod OCIIII1R1lDicated- to -.
some months .,, a beaW:iflal and. ma1ftctiM iallllllaet
how the Q-uechri,.tiao ought to 811lploy the pt. or lldller
tbe.qoality of a· developed Cecol&y·of~ I
pledp m~ Cor the tlu&h ofit. ud gin it ia &he--
word. in which I received it.
" The ..U. of a eoaunoa MHhanio in s--,...
ICIIed·the gift ofpreeeieDee in a high depe.· 8M W
almoet COII.Itant.ly, day and Jlight, 'fiaiou froa the ..tel
of1pirit.; bu.t lhe kept them Vf1r1 IMIC"et, and diiCl_.
them only to very coDfideDtial penou. She ... aa&
oQ.ly very devout, and a real pnctieal chriltiaa, wbo a:-
erciled henelf daily in patieuce, selt'-deuial, aud chaity,
but lhe alao pouened cluiltian aagacity and unfrip-1
humility. She not only did not arrogate to'henellany
thing ou.aceount oCher riaiou, butwamedpeople.ag.m.
such thingl, aasuring them, that ~.watcb1W­
neaaaudeoutaDt prayerwere requilite, io.am. toavCJid
falling into erroR ; that aJIIOilglt the inhabitaaa of &he
world ohpiriw, there were good aud .evil, and ~J
good and partially evil beiDgl; that there were many
spirit~, which frequently took delight in.cMaai'ria8men;
tba~ lhe bad often experieaced thi1, but wu 80CIIB aware.
oCit,•n.sreceived otGoddiegiaoltryjllgthe ....;
that lhe uw allher deeeued acquaintaDcea ju ffetely
.,._ .......... .r&D.-
dar •eirrdeatla, in tile Y'otm ·in·•~ 'tb&y ~ in
the other world. A billlto'p 1Pfto 'Was~ ·ai ~tMlt,
lhe had 1ee11 in grey, in the habits of the poor; that
:f~Mid.peopie;appearetl tall-. but :'beeatne ~ aa they
lolt:tbeir ~ h. .
~ This ..-mall ·-cmce•Jilet l!Vith -Ml ilitililate friend 'flf
111en mi.-cthlet; the llitteJ' -.a 'Very piotR ani 4e-vwt,
-.,. Hg'4nbld -all viaicma .. 'fllilJ'tY iinciea, ~ 1Y wot
'bellreve in daeIt!~ ef -a :Wrld of flllirila. -Aa INIOn
• lile~etillll't ehe iii4. lt.o tbH ~ Did~
.ot ..., ytU" 4~ huet.lid -laiit mgllt, ill •ell anlll
·-. imb.7 -The widow .....~,tor ...w
neally been the -ease. -1 ill'lllt 1ell yo~ ~rei M,
tW if.I did not bow yoa 110 •.11~ &ltd ill tWet:e not )iO
m.h attMMd ~ y~ I &oW. beiie~- tllat yo• hall tn
do wida thillga that are ilbpNI*'•
"'ilhe- wu oltes J:eillONW by~ mdhiiutil,
enn by thell8 whom the dill aot bow, to -pny rorthem.
She did 10 letvently, and not un&equentlJ taw th8le
penon• aft.erirarda &p9ear with a -fricnaclly cobDCenailce, .
as if to thank her.
" It Vfrr1 oftelt happeecithat lhe •• penalil, who
'iaited her, enter ier dear10111e am. beibre, and ._
150
immediately in what temper they would .come to her,
~ether good humoured ot cross.
" She once wished to apeak with a female friend of
hers, who reaided in the same town, but at a considera-
ble distance from her. Her urgent avocations tlid not
permit· her to go out ; ahe therefore made.use of her
fixed 1ri1l tQ call her to her. Her friend sat quietly at
~ ·without thiDkiug of going out; Budden1y it oc-
curred to her that abe ought to go to Mr11. W. She
baniahecl tlle tbougllt and l&id, I have no occasion to go
to bet, and..besides, it is dreadful.Md weather, and both
rainyand windy. But the thDughhgain occuned to her,
that -"e o:l.lght tc. ~~ her friend. I will not, answered
ahe.- .I ·carmot· go out at present. But the impression
upon her mind became 8trongez, aad left her no rest.
Full of vexation, abe now threw a. cloak over hez and
went. On opening Mrs. W.'s door, thelatter smiled and
aaid, I knew v.-, well that you·would be-conatrai.ned to
come• ·Sit. down there. beside .me; l have aomething
that I must ofneceuity, say·to.JOU,'and it waa impoui-
ble for me to go out ; I ·thetefore dMmght I would call
you hither by my will.
"·She frequently foresaw the illneeaea oC her ac-
acquaintancea,.but could not always dietinguisllwhether
-151
it wu a d:iaeue that might prove mortal, or ·one that
would really terminate in death. Both shewed them·
selves to her in the same manner.
·...The following predi~tion, which can be verifiedon
oath, 't.remarkable. ·
•• In the· ~ of the revolution> a person in
trde tnvelled to~.·on b11Billen to tb&fair'. -Dnri:iag
. lli8 1tay there, he wu publicly denoeced as·a ·apy, in
·the Guette of the Right Bank of tbe Rldne, and hil
name given. · Thia cdBed hiB t'amily·great alarm. ·It·
wu to be feared that he wouldbe arrested on hiB retum,
and ordere weie ·really lesued to that effect. ·His wife
,... an-intimate friend of :Mn. W.'a; ·Site therefore ran
to her, aDd:save a loole before her to all the a'ftlEiety
·abe feito · After aome Drlnutea, Krs.·W. said tb. her,
·ClOmpble" y~ nothing will happen to your hmiband,
he will retum in lafetY; ·You may perfectly rely upon
what I •Y to you, you know that I am lncaplble of tel-
ling you an untruth, you may fully depend .apon it he
will come safely back. -Her friend believed :what abe
said, and went awa,r'from her quite consoled. She had
already gone a fewpaces, when Mn. W., who still stood
at the M>ute door, called her·back,·and said to her,: Un-
derstand me.properly, yourhuibandwill.return in tafety•
.·
~e ;hAl, hQ:w:ev~, a hurt on C!De .foot, but it is of little
.qA~Illl•
" This prediction was punctually fulfilled. The
aJ~t t;ravelle4 :wW!..ais c:ler.k. throvgh ,the provinces
in which. he waa denounced; no one :ft!cognizedhirQ. and
he arrived happily in S - ; but he had a hurt on one
fpQt. In SIWilcald he had be~ thrown out of the car-
.Jjep.,by,*•~ ·waning .alfWf• He :did nAt break
·llic·le_l,11»1¥ Jlae4Wlf.lfll.,_ted itaelf ~IO the llcme, ao
,..cQat.Qil bAarenma;bewu-conhed t.o~ ~aome weeb.
·lie :w.•~·aow.e~, J\&"-quently,perlect}y healed.
" .'fbi~ ~ ~ ia ¥areD, 1790. Toltardl the
etld.afher·:life, ehe.,WJY aaku,.wblt wouW be dlueeult
·l!i.tAe ~· a-e-.oluli.o~.. · She .repUed, t.hat the prelent
.cd.erPf.fAina• wotU. not eon~, b'IK the former aya-
.~YQllld libw»tt DOt .~ Th& mult would be
YJJ!7 ~t~ ·wgt,..pie.~fl41 wht»e .ri-v:ers
~f Wootl'~il .0.. tiled; lU1.d MndiiU Ytmpaaoe takeu•
.l 11!6. aWltll· ~. ·~ -QaJ.igny ~- bu11y in
tbis;J:II!IV"h~tiODI I uar- '"!hml in• Wobdy llrirt.·
....Slut w.&l'Nid her wwls agaiut being concemed
in •or tlWlg:·Y.!Jmi• · She· .aid. to a- pCr80Jl wbQ was
m'!Wb dlspltMod .thathor hullbaud took part in the revo-
P.• Foauonurea; &c. us
lcatioD, and lfU entla!gled in it, Be comforted, your hus-
band will paaa safely throqgh the revolution, although
with considerable loiS.- God will forcibly detach him
Cram the ccmnaiou .an4 employment in which he is
eugaged. He.~ beoome more tranquil than he lias
enr been. 'What I tell you is the truth. You may
.!WlJrelJ upon it.
"Kra. W. ~ been ~ 'DOl' ~ore than ~
yean.: •very dliDg baa been pnnct\lally fuHlJ.led... ,Sh~
died iD the Bixty-third year of her 1188·
"When Cagliostro wu in S-, she visitell him
le'Yeral .timet. He immediatelyperceived that she aa,.-
We the inu.ible world, an.cJ, pracqaedallkindl of legw-
demaiD in her preaence, probably to hinder her frem per·
ceiving·w.bat he really waa. She admired the greatae11
othia.art, but regarded lUm u a necromancer,• of wlwJn
~are a paernumberinthe world, &Del even amoJ181t
cluilt.iaua, tbaD is ~d. .We read iD the writinp
ofAatoineUe BCJ111'ipon, that this eWightened. penoJJ
said the aame thing ofher times. The Devil has many
real worshippen. and they will secretly inerease, till at
leuglh daey will openly mow themllelvea ~r the reign
of the Beast,· ud. «J.•vo the whole world. Lust ancl
OM l!'O'I.BBODlMGI, lte.
riches are the chief mean• of deception.. But they ful.
fil the desires of their adherentl, m6re by large promi-
~~es, than by the thing itself. Liea and deceit rule in
the kingdom of darkness: truth and real enjoyment are
alone to be found in the kingdom oflight."
Thus far my friend's letter. I pledge myaelf cmee
more for the truth of the above nanative. I know the
aiucerity of evuy individual that hu a part in it: othen
alao ha.Ye related it verbally to me. In lhort, it is cer·
tainly and really true. ·
Mrs. W was any thing but an enthuaiast ; abe was
a pious and benevolent christian. Her placing no valu~
upon her intercourse with the spiritual world, nor 11pon
her gift of pre~<.oience, and her making no other use ofit
than te l!el'Ve thoee that needed eounseland consolation,
characterize her fully. Had she been an enthuaiut, ahe
would have acted quite otherwise ; 1~ theft woald., with
holy eelf-complacency, have declared hereelf, a poorun-
WOI'thy propheteu, and have occasioned much mischief.
Her opinion of her iutereourae with Bpiritl, her
eoanael and her warning in aueh a eue, are 10 tnlly and
geaufnelJ. ehriltian, that nothing ean exceed it: for it
cannot be too freqoeutly aaid and repeated, that inter-
coune with the world of apirita, and ell the dileoveriea
115
and preaagea which l'eiiUlt from it, are moat dangerou•
things. He.that falla into the.e circumstances without
hia own seeking, ought to endeavour, if possible, to
withdraw himaelffrom them, and if he cannot do that,
he must act aa M.ra. W. adviled, inceuantly watch and
pray.
•
A developedfaculty ofpresentimentia notin.accord·
auee with diYine, .pritual, or physical lawa; but if. in
lOUie meulll8, a .diaeue, which we ahould endeavour to
heal; he that seeks, in any other mumer, to develop it,
aommits the sin .of sorcery.
What Mn• W. says of good and evil, and partially
pod; and partially evil spirits, ia trne and remarkable:
ad i~ accords exactly with the holy ICriptures, and with
experience. Her praying for the dead also deservea
attention; it ia again a new proof, that the individual,
at death, doe1 not enter ltraightway into heaven or hell,
but is preparedfor one or other of theae abodes, a longer
or a aborter time, according to his state; during which,
he continuea in Hades: perfect saints and perfect repro-
bates alone, pass without stopping, to the place oftheir
destination.
That her gift of presaience wu 'by no means any
thins dirine or prophetical,ia clear from. thlt., ~ 1.\\.1!1
1~6
foresaw the mOlt indifferent:an4iuignifioaatevents; for
iDstanee, when she.receivei cmlinary visits.
Extremely umarkable and important is tlhe·magic
operation of.ber will, by which she eompelled her frietld
to come to her. The materialist laughs at such like
things, and regards them as the moat senseless enthusi-
f¥1Dl and the moalt lltUpid _,-.titin, aad yet the thing
ia true iD. itlelf, and fouaded .oa the ~tatue ·df die world
ofapirita. GodMl ,4eeply .CQDOIIIiei tlrla myateq 'f1i
magic, lJecaQe itllllig8U116cho.the DlAMit.dreadful abuaelo,
in which case it becomes real 'IOI'Oery. Let him. ihat
discovers.it, for it may be obtained by certain arts, flee
fnHa itu fmm the aveogil)g _. of•eatht.for hmble
thiliglma..y l'eault florn it. ·TDis m~ nweal8 itself,
rien the -deftlo~t of the fanlt7 .of tnHDtimea.t
hu,attainedto a peat height;
This cire'UBl8tallll:e pn11 as A hint. how spirit caa
aut.
upon apirit. Be 110 more oCtDie:.tle true age will
undeR~ me; ·he is aware of the dill'ereoa between
real divine magic aad the blaek art. or initmal magic.
What Mrs. W. says of the French revolution, mel
particularly of Admiral Coligny, i.e very remarkable. If
she was not decei•ed in tile mactft', ifth, rnlly uw that
great and noble man, 8otiv~y ·emplopd iJl a •lOll
OJI'..:tOa:UODI.-cJe; &e. 157
robe, aot aJmot, it gives WI an importutt ·key to ·thlt
goveimoe.nt of the wurld. for hence it followe, that the-
Lcml makes U8EI ofthe piou• dead as instrument. for the-
e~ olimportant endl•
.Aclulhal· Cotigny was.a powerful .protector of the
proteltantl (Hugonots) in France, toward; the· cW..
of the sixteenth century, and one of the fint of those,
..n..were mun.red··u tile bloody nuptial• on St. Bar-
tlwlomewla Eftf 1180, in his. own apartment. Every
ODe',;•hoeee.yiiii~U:e in any ID&D1Iel' opened, mustpereeive
that the beinonnnd bloody persecution• ofoar brethl'eJt
in the- faiti1; in France, have been fearfully avenged in.
the. revolution; nor would it be any thing very.llllDatu~
ral,. Wlll'8 ~ Coligny.employed on thi1 OCCM.ion,
although not to avenge, but to appease the retributive
justice of the judge of the whole earth.
Tlie-mo.t remazlcWaleiDKa1ace of the develop:IBent·
of the faculty of pret~eDtiment, i1 inoonteltibly the pre-
diction of M. Cazotte, at a dinner in Paris. A favour-
ite .GerioM;.·perieclicaLw«*lt hu taken the libert:y to
aacl'ibe tlm-whol~ narrative- to the invention oflOme·in..;.
geaioua:idltil'~ .butthii:aantion.ialdelititute ofproof. L
caJ,lpcne;oatbe,cpiiUU,•~t iUalkeilallyad'llllinutely·
true. 1-lurn Spoteli upcm;thembjeet·witlr•penon.of.
raa1t, 'Who .__,.J.criw,tbe- ttuth,.-ucll~ho-..U ""'\\.
158 OX I'O&BBODlJrGS, &c.·
acquainted with Cuotte: and this individual assured
me, that Guotte wu a man ofgreat·piety, and endOwed
with a high degree of knowledge; that he frequently
predicted the moat remarkable things, which we~e alway.
rulfined; and that he testified at the same time, that
they were communicated to him by means of intercourse
with apirita.
The IUU'J'8tive befOEe ua wu found amongst the pa·
pen of the late :M. La Harpe,. in;bia own haudwriting.
This La Harpe waa a member of the Royal Academy of
Scieucea, in Paris, that atorehouae of·aatire on Eeligitm,
and of \'oltarian abiurdityl La Harpe himself waa a
freethinker, who believed nothing; but who, before his
end, waa thoroughly converted, and diedin the faith and
hope ofthe goapel.
I will first relate the narrative in La Harpe's own
word•, and then add a few remarks, reapecting ita au-
thenticity. He write• u follow•:-
"It seems to me as if it WeEe but yeaterday, al-
though it happened at the beginning of the year 1781.
We were dining with one of our colleaguea of the acad-
emy, · - otsemua and respectability. The company,
wbiab wu namerou, waa eelectecl from all ranb; coar-
&im, jucJsu, 1earaed men, aoedamiciiD• lh, and bad
15t
done justice to thCl~WPle, and as usl,l&}, well-furnished
repast. At the deasert, Malvasier and Constantia heigh-
tened the festivity, and augmented in good society, that
~nd offreedom, which does not always keep itselfwithin.
defined bounds.
"The_world was at that time arrived at such a pitch,
that it was permitted to say any thing with the intention
of exciting merriment~ Chamfort had read to us ;.some
of pis blasphemous and lascivious. tales, and noble
ladies had listened to them even.without having reco\ll'le
U> their fans•. .i\.fter ~followed a whole host of sar-
casms on religion. One person quoted a tirade from
Pucelle; another reminded the company of that philo-
sophical verse of Di~rot's, in which he says, 'Strangle
the last king, with the entrails ofthe last priest,' and all
clapped appl;mse. Another stood up, elevating a bum- ·
per, and exclaimed, 'Yes geJltlemen, I am just as cer·
tain that there is no God, as I am certain, that Homer
is a fool;' and in reality, he was a8 cenain of one as the
other; for the company had just spoken of Homer and
of God, a1;1d there were amongst the guests those, who
ha!lspoken :well of both the one and th~ other.
".The conversation now becatne more serious. The
revolution that Voltaire h~ efJ"ea~, was spoken of with
admiration; and i~ waa 4greed tha~ it wv.& thi.t.:wbi<:.\J..
160'
· Conned the principal bam of bil fame. He Ud giftft
the tone to hil age; he had written in m~h a IIWIJIII',
that he was read both in the antechamber and the draw-
ing room. One of the company related to ua, with a
loud laugh, that hil hair-dreuer, whilst powderiDg him,
said, ' Look Sir, although I am only a poorjourneyman,
yet I have no more religion than another.' It was con-
cluded that the revolution would be completed witbolat
delay; and that auperatition and fanaticam must make
way for philosophy. The probableperiod wascaleulated,
and which ofthe company would have the happineu of
living during the reign of reason. The more·aged la-
mented that they dared not flatter themaelva with the
idea; the younger ODet rejoiced at the probability that
they would live to see it; and the academy, in particu-
lar, was congratulated on having prepared the great
work, and for being the focus, the centre, and the prime
IQOVer of liberty of thought.
'" A ain1le individual had taken no part in aJl this
pleasant conversation, and had evf'n very gently IC&t-
tmld 10111e jokes upon their noble enthuaium. It was
M. Cazotte, an amiable and original man, but who. ua-
rortunately, waa completely taken up with the reveries
of thole, who believe in a auperior enlighteuing. He
now toot up the dileoune, and aaid in the ·mo.tlerioua
~~ 'Oeadeaiea, nJolce110'1ri\..Ubeema.e.u..e.
Hll
J OI' POBBBODINOS1 &c.
ofthat great and sublime revolution, which you so much
I desire. You know that I apply myself a little to pro-
phecying ; I repeat it, you will all see it.'
"' There requires no prophetic gift for that purpose,
was the reply.
" True, rejoined he, but perhaps something more
for what I am now going to tell you. Do you know
what will result from this revolution ? (that is, when rea-
son triumphs in opposition to revealed religion?) What .
it will be to you all, as many as are now here; what will
be its immediate consequences, its undeniable and ac-
knowledged effects?
"Let us see, said Condor~et, putting on an air of
simplicity, it is not disagreeable to a philosopl1c~ to meet
with a prophet.
"You, M. Condorcet, continued M. Cazott~, you
will give up the ghost, stretched out on the floor of a
subterraneous prison ; you will die of poison, that you
will have· swallowed, in order to escape the executioner;
of poison, which the happiness of those times shall com-
pel you always to carry about with you.
162. Qll: •oiUUiiODl~-:&...
"This, at firtl. ~~ted.greU a,stQDialuv.e,ot, ~,. it
was soon remerabe,red, thtlt the WP~Y ·C~ II(Hile-
times dreamed -w.akiua. and th'--~tnPtllY burat:out into
a loud laugh. M. Cazotte, said one ofthe guf:sts, the
tale you relate t9 us is. not near 10.amusiug. as your
'Devil in Love, ( Le Diable Amoureux is • pretty Jit*,
romance, written by Cazotte). What de'ril :a..mgested
to you the chw.gooD. the. poiloD. ad the executioner?
WMt h-.1 thia fn CDDUDQD w:fth.philosophy aud the Riga
of~
"Thia isj'Qit.what:l tell you. .repliecl.C_uotte. In
the name ofphilosophy, inthe DU»e ofhUJII&Dity,liberty,
and reason, will it come to pass, that.suth.will be your
end: and reason will then certainly triumph, for she will
have her temples; nay, at that period, there will be no
other ~plea in all·France, than the temples ofreason.
"Truly, said Chamfort, with a sarcastic smile, you
wi,ll be no prie•~ of these templea.
" Gazotte anawered,. I hope no~: bu.t you :M. Cham-
fort, who will .be oDe of the~, BDd are_ very worthy of
being so, you will open your veina by twenty-two inci-
sions ofthe razor, end yet you will die only aome months
afterwards.
J
I
'
Olf fOJlEBODUCGS1 &c. 163
•t'l'he company looked at each other, and laughed
again.
" Cazotte continued. You M. Vicq. d'.A:zyr, will
not open your Teina yourself, but will afterwards cause
tbem·to·be opened aiX times in one day in an attack of
t1ie ·~ in orde-r to make the matter more sure, and
you will die the·same night. .
"' l.f
" Tou, M. Nicolai, will die upon the scaffold.
"You M; Bailly, on the scafl'old.
"You M. idaiesherbea, on the scaft'old.
" God be thanked, exclaimed M. Raucher, it ap-
pear&' that M; Cazotte bas·only to do with.the academi-
cians; he has just made dreadful lmvoc amon~t. them.
I, heaven be praised- ·
"Caeotte interrupted him"-You 1 you will die on
the .scaifold also.
" Ha! this is a·wager, resounded from all sides, he
has sworn to exterminate us all.
164 OK I'OB.BBODJKGB, &c.
"Cazotte.-No, it is not I that have sworn it.
" TheCompany.-Shall we be then under subjectio11
to Turks and Tartars? and yet-
" Cazotte.-Nothing less. I have already told you,
that you will then be under the government of philosophy
and reason. Those that wlll treat.you in this manner,
will be all philosophers; they will be continually making
use of those very ex.prell&ioDII, which you have been
mouthing for the last hour; they wili repeat all your
maxims, and like you, will quote the verses of Diderot
and Pucelle.
" The guests whispered into each others ears, • You
11ee clearly that he h~ lost his rcas.on,' (for whilst speak·
ingthus, he con~ued vc1y serious); ' Dont you see that
he is jo~? and in all his jests he mixes something of
the w:mderful.' ' Yes,' said Chamfort, 'but I must con-
fess his wonders are not very pleasing, they are much
too gallows-like. And when shall all this take place?'
" Cazotte.-Six years shall not pass over, before
all that I have told you shall be fulfilled.
" You tell us many wonderful things; it was this
ON POREBODINGI &e. 165
time I, (La Harpe,) that spoke; and do you say nothing
of me?
" With respect to you, answered Cl~Zotte, a won-
der will take place that will be at least quite as remark-
able. You will then be a christian.
" A general exclamation! Now I am at ease, said
Chamfort, if we only perish when La Harpe is a chris-
tian, we are immortal.
" Weofthe female sex, said the Dutchess de Gram-
mont, are fortunat~ in beingreckonedas nothing inrevo-
lutions. When I say as nothing, I do not intend to say,
that we do not interfere in them a little, but itis a gene-
rally received maxim, that we, and those ofour sex, are
not deemed responsible on that account.
" Cazotte.-Your sex, ladies, will be this time no
protection to you; and however little you may be desi-
rous of interfering, yet you will be treated precisely as
the men, and no difference will be made with respect to
you.
"The Dutchess.-:-But what is it you are telling us,
M. Cazotte? You are certainly announcing the end of
the world!
166 ON I'OUBODUJGI, &c.
"Cazotte.-That I .know not; but what I do
know is, that you, my lady Dutcheaa, will be drawn t.o
the scaffold, you, and many other ladi!!a with you, upon
a hurdle, with your hands bound behind you.
"The Dutchess.-I hope, however, in that caee,
that I shall have a mourning coach.
•· C&ZQtte.-No, Madam I Ladiet of higher ruk
than you, will be drawn upon a huidle with their bauds
bound behind them.
"The Dutcheu.-Ladies of ~her rank 1 What,
the princesses of the hlood1
" CazoUe.-Of atill higher rank.
" A visible emotion now manifested itself through
the whole company; and the muter of the hou~e as-
aumed an air of diapleaaure. It began to, be evident
that the joke waa carried too far.
" The Dutcheas de Grammont. in order to diapel
the cloud, let the last reply drop, and contented henelf
with saying, in a moat jocular tone, ' You ahall ~. he
will not even leave me the consolation of a confesaor.'
167
" Cudtte;---Jro Madam,'lMine will be gi..-eh, either
to you, or any one else•. The l.at 'tnift'erer:to whotn.the
laYOUI' ofa confeslor will be granted,-here he paused a
inoment.
. .
"The Dutchesa.-Well, who will the fortunate
mortallte, to whom·this pii.tlege 'Win be·grantetl?·
'"Cuotte:~lt 'will· be tlie dtily pritilege he;will
ltfR>Jetm, end tlrls Will·be the K.mg·of 'Fl'li.Do&!
I ·
u· The 'llllllter'of-the 'ltouie 'Dow Vbse h&:stlly ftom
the tabte, aild the whole ·omnpany widl'liim. He·went
to 'M. C~U~otte ua ·tiaid, ~! ·.teep ~otlOil, ''My'd«*
Cazotte, this lamentable joke has lasted long enough.
Yon C!8rty·it t.Oo·&r,·'&Jld· to • de~ mwhleh ~ou en-
danger y011J'8elf, and the'compa'ny in which you are.'
·~~·~~made no J48ply;-a1
ftd>wiae ttfepiDiiig ~ode­
paiot, wbl!n the Datchetis de Gl'UDIDOiit, ,;.hb 'ltill·en:..
th&ovoured to prev~nt ttie·
mwel' ~ taken in a lieJtoult
light;, ud ·llbotrred io ~ellto'te ·hllarity, went ~ MNt aru!
Ml«<, •·'N'mr,·ftlr.·Pi'ophe\, you··ha¥e 'tOld ua an onrfar-
tah~ wt-h~ wa .mngoryaot'OWn rate.'
168 Olf l0&1!.BODJNGI0 &c.
said, ' Have youever readin Joaephua, madam, the hia-
tory ofthe siegeJJf Jeruaalem ?'
" The Dutcheaa.-Certainly; who baa not read it?
but do aa though I had never read it.
"Cazotte.-Well, Madam! during this siege, a
man went seven successive days upon the ll"alla round
the town, in the sight of both the besiegera and the be-
sieged, and cried out ince888Dtly, with a mo1U'Dful voice,
' Woe to Jeruaalem! Woc to Jerusalem!' On the seventh
day, be cried, 'Woe to Jeruaalem, and woe to myself
alaol' and in the lADle moment he waa eruahed to death
by an immeJ118 atqne, hnrled from the enemy'a enginea.
" .After these words, M. Cazotte made hia bow, and
departed." Thus far La Harpe.
Here every thing dependa upon the whole of this
narration being true or fictitioua, written perhape after
ita fulfilment; for it it certainly true, that all tho.e who
were present at the dinner, lost their livea precisely in
the manner here predicted by Caaotte. The penon who
gave the entertainment, to whom Caaotte propbeaied
nothing, and who waa moat probably the Duke de Chai-
eew, waa the oDly one that died a natural death. The
worthy and pious Cazotte wu guillotined.
O:R J'OB.BBODINGS1 &c. 169
I ask every candid connoil8eur, that knows how to
distinguish that which is ideal from a true copy taken
from nature, if thia narrative can be a fabrication? It
has so many little shades and peculiarities, which would
never have occurred to an inventor, and which he would
not have regarded as necel8ary. And then where would
have been the object of such a fabrication ? A free-
thinker'couldnot have invented it; because, by so doing,
he·would have been acting in complete opposition to his
principles; .for he would thus be diAeminating views to
which he is a mortal enemy, and which he regards as the
moct stupid superatition. If itbe supposed that a fanatic
or an enthuaiast bad invented it, for the purpose of say-
ing something strikfug, the nature of the narrative itself,
which bears no resemblance to :fiction, contradicts such
a supposition, to which must be added the certainty that
M. La Harpe wrote it with his own bud. It may be
found in the " Oeuvres Choiaiea et Posthumes" of M.
La Harpe, a celebratedmember of the French Academy,
published at Paris by Mignerol, in four volumes octavo,
in 1806.
It will scarcely ~ur to any one, that the editor.of
the papers left by this celebratedman, shouldhave inter-
polated such a document ; this would not seem like the
conduct of the French and Parisian literati. It is cer-
tain, demonstratively certain, that La Harpe himself
170 •
wrote the D&!Dtiw. ThD could not ha9e oeourred whllat
he was still an infidel, for the reaaou above·mendcmed,
nor ·can the idea arise in the mind of any one tUt ia
acquainted with the thorough convenion of this great
man and freethinker, that he should have been guilty of
such an irreverent act, as to fabricate auch a thing whiJA
in that penitent itate, in which he wept cwer•hia ·t'onMr
life with tears of blood ; this would be·morally impoeit-
bJe. To make the matter public before Ju.death. ._.
not advisable at the time in which •be diad. 8tiH ._
·did the gueatll venture to relate it before aad daring·6e
revoluaan. Yetatill La Harpe found'the thing 10~
-ant, and that Vf!rY jutly too, that he wrote it down ud
.laid it in hie dealt till bettler times.
A certain M. de W
•. ~ inaerted the following
ltatement in 'the Parisian jourllala, with reference to.the
above extraordinary prediction ofM. Ouotte. He aya,
"tiS be waa Yffr1 well acquainted with this retpedable
old man, and had often heard him apeak ofthe great
diatreu, which would befall France, at a time when the
people, in every part of France, lived in perfect security,
and expected nothing of the Jcind. Cuotte uaerted,
that future events were revealed to him, through the
medium ofspirit.. I willltate to you, eontinuea M. M
N. a ·
reJIW'kable &et, wbich.ia of iaelf' ntlc:ient to ea-
Qbliah M. Cazotte u a prophet. Enry one knows,
171
that.lda·great attachment to monarchy ·was the reason
ofhia being sent to tbe A.b~y on the 2nd ofS!#ptember,
1792, and that he eacaped from the murderers by the
hemic co~ of his daughter, who appeased the mob,
\
.by the moving apeetacle of. her :filial affections. The
Yffr1 ~&me mob. .Ut would have put him to death, car-
ried biDlhcnneiJatriumph. All his friends came to congra-
tala&e!!Wn on his escape. M.D. who viaited him after
that gqilty da)!, aaid ·to him, :now you are !l&fe! [ be-
liey'e ne~ ·~"ered Cazotte. In three days I ·ahaU be
.guill.Qtin~ M.D. r!lplied, How can that ·be? Catotte
CDD~q~, Yes, .my ~d, in three clays I :shall die-
. uponthe adldfold. Iuay.ingthis, he was deeply affected,
and added, A abort time .befo~ your -arrival, I saw a
gensd'arm~s enter, wbQ was BeAt to take me, by an
order from lletJUon. I ~ IIODJpeUed to follow him:
~ .. .·
I appeared before the ·~ of Paris, who sent me to
~e Conciergerie. i'rotn whence I came before the Revo-
lutionary.Tribunal. T)lua, my friend, you see, (that is,
from M. Casotte'& ·vilion,) that my hour is come~ and
I am so persuaded of i~ that I am ·&lTB:agiug all my
affairs, Here are papen, which I am very anxious
should be handed over to·my wife; .I ·request yo11 to
give them~ her, and console her. ·
·~ M. D. declared thie wu all folly, aad left hitn
172 !/1 OK PO'RBBODUIOI1 &c.
with the conviction that hie reaaon had euffered at the
eight of the horron he had eecaped.
" The next day he came again, but learnt that a
gensd'armea had conducted }f, Cazotte to the munici-
pality. M. D. ran to P~:thion; oR arriving at the
mayor's court, he learnt that hia friend had juat been
sent to priaon; htJ haatened to him, but Will told that he
could not be spoken to, for he wu to be judged by the
Revolutionary . Tribunal. Soon after, he learnt that
hil friend waa condemned and executed." M.D. add,
the writer, ia a man who is worthy of all credit. He
waa atill liviD« in July, 1806. He related this narra-
tive to many persons, and it seemed to me not
lplimportant to preserve the remembrance of it." So
far the oommunication in the Paris papen.
I have taken the whole of thia remarkabie relation
from a small pamphlet, printed at Strasburg, by Silber-
mann, the title of which is, " A Remarkable Prophecy
concerning the Dreadful French Revolution, from the
writiDgs of the late Monsr. La Harpe, specially printed
from the Religioua Journal.''
A year ago, when I waa in L-, I spoke with
Baron Von W., who is a man of great integrity, and had
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 1'13
long resided in Paris. I related to him this wonderful
narrative; on which he told me that he had been well
acquainted with M. Oazotte, that he was a pious man,
and was noted for predicting many things, which were
minutely fulfilled.
This natTative is therefore most certainly and assn•
redly true. Ifit be so, .I then ask every reasonable and
impartial individual if there exists, since the time of the
apostles, a more remarkable and important testimony of
the exfstence of the kingdom of spirits, and its influence
on the visible world? I know of none. I should like
to know how tbe materialist, when convinced of the fact,
would. explain the extraordinary phenomenon. It is
really most singular, if a comet appear in the heavens,
all eyes are ~mmediately fixed upon it, and all that are
fond of astronomy immediately study· what course it
takes, &e. Ifa new gaa be discovered, every chemist is
immediately on the alert to examine it. If a plant, an
insect, or a stone be found, which has not been previ-
ously known or de!!Cribed, what attention is excit.-d,
what a marv~llous matter is made of it! But as soon
as appearances are spoken-of, which only remotely give
hints of the truths of the christian religion,·of the dura-
tion of the soul after death, of the existence of good and
evil angels and spirits, and of their influence upon the
visible world, appearances, which are a million times
174
more impM8nt th&D.aU'natOral phenmnena in the-· xu.
, terial wo~ they are paa~ed by with a aroaatic meer;
\) superstition and fanaticiam ia tbeu.the c:ry, and all who
examine into, inve~tigate, and· rectify tbeae things, an
~ at and calumniated; and the reaultl oftheh- in-
veetigatic,....._ne: trae tllef -.., 'be, and however
clearly demou..tzrtri. .. exclaiDled. agabm:aa trimng,
estremely dangei'OUII, aDd hiib17 pniadicW. to--eacietr,
a1.1d e.w IAAP~•secl ., QIUcb u peatlllle, 1iiJiiiM.worb.
tnat ~ote infide.Uty, and·the fal1iDgawq.from ~
aad the lewdest romancea, whiclk poiaog, ana 88 it were
sataniu the spirit,,~ lldfered:to take their coune, nor
ia a lingle alarm IOWlded upo.n the occaaioD.
My dear cotemporarieal whence comes thU ahock.-
~ feeling,· tm. horrible diaguat of every. t.hiu«o which
~y only remotely diacloae to us aomething of the state
oC the soul after death1 From whence this bittemesa
againat Chriatand hi& most holy religion? Yea, bilt~rnw!
do not deny it.. People are aabamed to mention hia
h.uowed name ia .reapectable aociety, but they apeak
with pleaaure of the phantoms of the Greciaa and Ro-
man theology: it ie well bred to convene upon them,
and adom their •onnete with them. My God, what in-
fatuation, and what penenenesa of that intellectual
enlighteniDg, which ia eo much boaated f)f !
175
However· important, and I. might say IUU)l'ed, as
C~~·· pro.phecy is, yet we ou,ht not, on this account.
tQ p•the worthy. man in the rank. of true Bible pro•.
pheta. He-was a- piou. JRoU, wa.. ~of.~.
~.......llj IJ!lia-•hip depe.. bat Ja.Nligiou
f~P-· we~ tbe~n why he fell into connectionj,not
ao-mqch.witltfalae, as with good spirits, from whom he
l~a.utt.wMt:wt~uld· ~Y- ~e plac.e.. He was m\ICh
ab®t-in the,~ situation aa Mts. W. whom I. have
~nqon~ in theiprec.ee!Ung narrative•
.Uut,. by·. this, I_do ~ot mean to say that Cuotte
WAll not'a h~al.d of Uod at tltis Belshazzar's feast, a
handthat wrote.upon tb~ wall, with letters of flame. the
words, Mene, T~el,. Urphasin. Providence macle ute
of this serviceable instrument to arouae those ainnen,
that were thus sleeping on the mast head in the storm.
Wh~ this voice of thunder may. have wroughtl is
k~wn-only to the Omniscient: it· may however have
e~cited reflection in _some instances; JUld who knows,
· if.J10t just in the moat melancholy pe~od offulfibnent,
th~ remembrance of Cuotte's prophecy may not have
been attended with happy effectsI Probably it was alao,
ifJ}ot the i.Jn!Jlediate, yet the Jemou ca~ of,La Harpe'•
conversion.
176 OK fOili'IOS)IJrG8, &c.
If the developed faculty of presentiment ean only
be instructed by infonaation from the invisible world,
concerning those thingt which are about to happen in a
short time, and for which the foundation is already laid;
it appears difficult to explain how Cazotte could know,
six yean before, every thing so distjtetly, even the
number of incisions with the razor, the number of blood-
lettings,&c. to which I reply, that theFrench revolution,
in its results the most important event in the whole his-
tory of the world, was planned many yean before. •
know from an eye-and-ear-witness, that just at the pe-
riod, when Louis XVI. was affianced to Marie Antoi-
nette of Austria, at the time when this marriage was
concluded upon in Vienna, the fall of the royal family
was determined, and thi1t marriage-contract alone fms-
trated its accomplishment.
It is also \·ery probable, that the inhabitants of the
invisible world, and especially good angels and Rpirits,
read in the tables of Providence, and are thus able to
know, at least, certain fi.tture events. So much is clenr
from all the credible information from the invisible 1\·orld,
that every thing which takes place in the material world,
is previously arranged there; and that from thence, the
whole human race is governed; yet in such a manner,
that thE'! freewill of man is not under compulsion.
ON FORBBODINGS1 &c. 177
I now descend from the higher stage of the devel-
oped faculty of presentiment to an inferior one; whilst
I .purpose enquiring, what opinion ought to be ·f<Jil'med
of what is called "Second-sight," and what ought to be
believed or disbelieved concerning it.
"'ben a p~rson resides for a while in th~ villages,
amongst the lower orders, he will occasionally hear of
aome grave:-digger, watchman, attendant upon the dead,
nurse, &c. or of some one else, that can foresee funerals.
This second-sight generally manifests itselfas follows :-
the indiyidual feels himself impelled, generally in the
night time, to go out tow~rds the neighbourhood of the
house, out ofwhich the corpse is to be brought; he then
sees the procession with all, even the minutest of its de-
tails. There is no doubt, but that much drealning and
delusion is mingled with the matter, but the thing itself
is correct, and is certainly true.
In my youuger days, there was a dinner given in
the village where I was boru, on the occasion of a bap-
tism, to which the clergyman, a very worthy man, was
invited. During dinner, the conversation turned upon
the gra\·e-digger of the place, who was well knom1, pu.r-
ticularly on account ofhis second-sight, and even feared;
for as often as he saw a corpse, he was always telling
that there would be a funeral, ou.t of '11\l<.:.b. '0.\\.d. "-\ll:.""- ';).
~
178 ON POB.EBODINGS, &c.
·house. Now, as the event invariably took place, the in-
habitants of the house he indicated were placed, by the
iniln's tale, in thegreatestdilemma and anxiety,paticu-
eularly ifthere was any one in the house who Was ill or
sickly, whose death might probably be hutened if the
prediction were not concealed from him, which, however,
generiilly took place.
This man's prophecies were an abomination to the
clergyman. He forbad it, he reproved, he scolded, but
all to no purpose ; for the poor dolt, although he was a
drunkard, and a man of low aud vulgar sentiments, be-
lieved firmly that it was a prophetic gift of God, and
that he must make it known, in order that the people
might still repent. At length, u all reproof was in vain,
the clergyman gave him notice,- that if he announced one
funeral more, he shouldbe deprived of his place, and ex-
pelled the village. This availed, the grave-digger was
silent from that time forwards. Half a year afterwards,
in autumn, about the year 45 of the las~ century, the
grave-digger comes to the clergyman and says, " Sir,
you have forbidden me to announce any more funerals,
and I have not done so since, nor will I do so any more;
but I must now tell you something that is particularly
remarkable, that you may see that my second-sight is
really true: in a few weeks a corpse will be brought
up the meadow, which ...ru\ \le ~'Ill\. Ill\ a "lcd'l,e
ON FG.REBODINGS, &c, l7f
.by an;Ox." The clergyman seemingly paid no attention
w~s,. .but listened to it with indifference, and repli.e<l,
"Only:go about your business, and leave off 11uch su-
perstitious fonies; it is sinful to have any thing to do
.wjtli.them."
Tlie' thing nev~rtheless appeared extremely s~gular
and remarkable to the clergyman; for in my country, a
corpse being drawn on a sledge by an ox, is most dis-
,graceful, because-the bodies ofthose-that commit suicide,
'aDd JV>forious malefactors, are thus drawn on sledges.
Some weeks after, a strong b01ly of Austrian troops
passed through the village on their way to the Nether-
lands. Whilst resting there a day, the snow fell nearly
'three feet deep. At the 11ame time, a woman died in
.another village Qf' the same parish. The military took
away all the horses out of the country to drag their wag· ·
gons : meanwhile the corpse laid there, no horses carne
-back, -the corpse began to .putrify, the stench became
intolerable; ·they· were,..therefore,· compelled to make a
virtue.of necessity, to place the corpse upon a sledge,
and harness an ox to it.
In the mean time, the clergyman, and the school-
master with his scholars, proceededto theentrance of the
village, to meet the corpse; and as the funeral came
180 ON FOREBODINGS, &e.
along the meadow in this array, the grave-digger step-
ped up to the clergyman, pulled him by the gown,
pointed with his finger to it, and said not a,word.
Such was the tale, with all its circumstances, as re-
lated by the clergyman. I was wcll_acquainted with the
good man, he was incapable oftelling an uritruth; much
less in a matter which contradicted all his principles. .
Another history of this kind, for the truth of which
I can vouch, was reiated to me by my late father, and
his brother, both very pious men, and to whom it would
hare been impossible to have told a falsehood.
Both of them had business, on one occasion, in the
Westphalian province of Mark, when they were invited
to dinner at the protestant preacher's. During the re-
past, the subject of second-sight was likewise brougl1t
upon the carpet. The minister spoke of it with acri-
mony, because he had also a grave-digger, who was a~­
tlicted with that evil, he had often and repeatedly forbid-
den him from mentioning it, but all to no purpose.
On one occasion, the prognosticator came to tb,•
minister and said, " I have to .tell you, Sir, that in a
~;hort time, there will be a funeral from your house, anoi
I
yon vm have to follow the coffin before all the other fu.
ON I!'OREBODING81 &c. 181
I
neral attend~ts." Terror, anger, and displeasure, got
so much the better ofthe good pastor, that he drove the
thoughtless fellow out of the door; for his wife was near
her confinement: and notwithstanding every rational
viewwhich he took, be passed ·a very melanch(lly time
ofit, till at length his wife was safely delivered, and out
of all danger. He now reproached the grave-digger
most bitterly, and said, "See now, how unfounded thy
reveries have been!" But the corpse-seer only smiled
and said, " Sir, the matter is not yet finished."
Immediately afterwards,the preacher's servant-maid
died of an I!Poplexy. Now it is the custom there for the
master of the house, on such occasions, immediately to
follow the coffin, before the next relatives; but this time,
the preacher endeavoured to avoid it, in order to confound
the corpse-seer. ,He did not venture, however, to offend
the parents of the deceased, which he would have done
most grossly, ifhe had notfollowed the coffin. He fmmd, .
therefore, a suitable excuse in the circumstance, that his
wife, who, according to the eustom prevalent there, was
then to go to church for the first time after her confi.ne-
ment, should take his place, and he would then accom-
pliny the schoolmaster and his scholars, as was usual.
This was discussed and agreed upon, and the pa-
rents were likewise satisfied with it. On. 'U.\~ ~~1 'f!\\~"'
18!: ON. :JOQ:JODINGI, &c.
tbe funeral was to take _place, tbe company. aaemb!ed
at the paraonage. The coffin stood in the porch on a
bier; the ~ehoolmuter, with hie acholara, stood iD a c:ir~
cle in the front of the. botll8 and B8DfJ; tba minitltet'.wu
jlllt goinB out to IPs appoin&ed place, .bis wife ~~tapped
bebind the ooiin, an~ the bearera laid hold ot the bier,
when th8t vezy moment, the minister'a wife fell down in
a fit. She waa taken mto a room, and brought again to
heraelf, but she was ao.illthatshe could not go to church,
and the ininilter was so terrified by this accident, that
it no longer occurred to him to make the grave-digger
into a liar; but he stepp!d very quietly behind the cof-
fin, aa the prognosticator would have it.
The circumstance of the minister's wife falling into
a fit, and ita taking place just there and then, might
proceed from very natural causes ; but this does not
detraet from the remubbl.meu of the thiDg, the pre·
diction was, at all event11 punctually fulfilled.
Aa the developed fa.oulty of presentiment i• a (:apa·
bil,ity of experiencing the arrangements, which are made
in &he world of spiriU, and executed in the risible world,
secoad-aight certaisly b.longt also under this head.
And as those thatpoBBess this capabilityare generally sim-
ple people, it againfollowt from hence, that a developed
facmlty ofpreaentbnent ia b., no mt:G\•"' ~~'-1, "'\\.~\\.
ON I!'OJlEBODING81 &c. 183
belouga soldy to devout and pious people, or that it
should be regarded ~ a divine gift; I take it_ on the
contrary, for a disease of the soul, which we ought rather
to endeavour to heal than promote.
He that J:!.aa a. natural disposition for it, and then
fixe!! his imagination long and intensely, and therefore
.agicollJ upon a certain object, may at length be able,
with respect, to 'this object, to forsee things which have
reference to it. Grave-diggers, nurses, and such as are
employed to undress and shroud ,the dead, watchmen,
and the like, are accustomed to be continually reflecting
on objects which stand in connexion with de.iith and
interment; w~at wonder, therefore, if their faculty of
presentiment at length develope i~ on these subjects !
and I am almost inclined to maintain, that it m!ly be
promoted by drinking ard~nt spirits.
It is highly incumbent upon the police to forbid
I!UCh people, upon pl!.in of imprisonment, even to reveal
what; they have seen; andifit be of such a n11ture, that it
may be regarded as a providential warning, let them tell
it oply to him who is~ l?e warned. It must, however, be
well observeq, that Providen~e w~ rarely make use of
such corrupt and superstitious ins~ments.
There is a great difference between Mrs. W., Ca-
184 ON FOREBODINGS, &c.
zottc, and persons of that description;and bet.;,.een these
second-sighted individual!!. The wise and enlightened
christian is well aware how he ought to regard things of
this nature, and what use to make of them.
In the second section of the II. vol. of the Maga-
zine for Experimental Psychology, mention is made 9f a
respectable individual, to whom the countenances of
those who are 11oon to die, appear as if they had already
.laid some days in the grave, and that this presentiment
is disagreeable to him.
I have already said, that the developed faculty of
presentiment experiences the .remit of arrangements,
which are made in the invisible world, and not these ar-
rangements themselves. This result must be made sen-
sible, in order to pass over into the consciousness of the
sensible man. Now this always happens according to
the pre-disposition of the man's nature; second-sightc(l
individuals view things in their own imagination in as
lively a manner, as though they saw them in reality :
spirits communicate information to others, as was the
case with Mrs. W. and Cazotte: in the instance abo,·c-
mentioned, thi1 result produced the appearance of de~th
in the visages of those that were candidates for the tomb.
I could adduce still more undoubted facts of this
ON FOREBODINGS1 &e. 185
kind; but in order to avoid prolixity, the above may
suffice. It is strange and extremely· remarkable, that
people do not pay attention to such very important oc-
currences, but pass by them with contempt. Appear-
ances, which cannot be explained on the basis of mere
sensible reasoning, are certainly the most important of
all; because they point out to us the way ~o that, which
is above the senses, which for men, whose noblest part ·
•
is super-sensible, is of inexpressible value.
It must be of infinite importance to every reasona-
ble mind, to know with certainty, whether what the Bi-
ble teaches of God, of the fall of the :first man, of re-
demption by Jesus Chri~t, of the spiritual world, and its
influence on the material world, and of the existence of
the soul after death, be true or not true, well or ill•
founded.
, This question is ofextreme in)portance, because the
present prevailing rationalism, by its mechanic philoso-
phy, in part denies it altogether, and in part doubts it;
thereby robbing mankind, in a direct.manner, ofthe most
valuable consolation, and ofthat precious hope, of which
they so much stand in need. ·Let the following remark
be thoroughly and impartially considered, investigated,
and digested.
186 Olf FO&l&BODilCGS, ·&c.
If, in every age, there have been many real inst:an-
cea of rationally upright -.cl pious men having te.stified
that they had intercoune with beiDgs from the world of
spirits: iftheae beiDgs relate events to them, which. are
either taking placo at a dis~, or w,bich will takeplace
in.future, and whiCh thenaturalJn&DC8DDOtpoeeiblybow
from all that ~ him, aud operata upOn him in
the ~ble world: and iCtheee event~ are IDOit1~­
ally fulfilled, ia not the exis~ of a world of apirita, ita
RJIDpathy with the fall of man, and ita in1luence upon
them, even aa illconteatibly proved, aa the exil~ce of
electric matter, galvanism, magnetiam, and the sympathy
and influence of thoee powen upon DlAUrW ~ture·1
But aa materialism, with its pretended illumina-
tion,. directly contradicts $heBe undoubted facta, ita
assertions, with reference to the world of spirits, and the ·
infl.uence which the latter exercises upon the visible
world, mut be totally Calle.
Further, as all inc:ideDts of thia nature, which have
occnrred, or have been obaerved from time immemorial
to the present, (in 10 faf aa they are removed from phan-
taama and entlmaiagn,) are in minute accordance with
diviDe revelation, and are, *'» to speak, a continued
revelation : the one, therefore, confums the trutll of the-
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 187
other, and consequently also ·the truth of the christian
religion, according to the ancient ·apostolic system.
Now, from all this it follows, undeniably, that· we
ought most minutely and thoroughly to examine and in-
vestigate every appearance from the invisible world, with
candour and impartiality, in order to be able to distin-
guiab, with certainty, that which ia true, from that which
is false, illusion and deception from reality, ~Jnd the piay
of imagination from the essential preaence of a spirit.
In tbU way, we shall attain to the pure and un-
mingled light of truth, and also to a tranquilizing con-
viction with respect to religion, which has tustained so
rude a shock from materialism. But obvious and timple
as this axiom may be, it has, however, been hicherto
little followed. Every one, even the moet timple, mut
perceive thatauch appearancesare ofextremeimportance,
and that it is, therefore, an miperioua duty to e:u.mine
into the truth of them. The causes which have prev~n­
ted this examination, are three.
Firat.-The pUie tieR w.hicllleizea all men, even
the moat courageoua, when they .eeaomet.biDg to which
they cannot aajgn a place in the flsible world, prevents
all approach, and cliveata them ofall c:ourage for calm in-
vestigation.
188 OR· FO'BBBODINGS, &e.
Second1y.-Superstition,by which by far the great-
est part of mankind is governed, believes every de-
ception, and·takes every phantom for a real apparition ;
and because it thus firmly believes, it therefore deems
any further examination or investigation useless. And
Thirdly,-With infidelity, it is system and princi-
ple to beJieve nothing whatever, that regards superna-
tural things. It has been decided, onoe for all, that
there is no world of spirits, or if there be, that it stands
in no relation to us, it has no influence upon us, nor
upon the visible world that surrounds us, consequently,
all is deceit and delusion, and unworthy ofinvestigation.
It is however no good sign, that this investigation, or
the belief in presentiments, visions, and apparitions is
branded with opprobrium, and does no honor to enlight-
P.ned rationalism, for it is a sure proof, that danger
threatens it from thence, and that on that side it may
be easily overcome•
•
I hope that my meaning in all this will be rightly
apprehended, and that I shall not be misunderstood ;
the true believer needs no such testimony from the in-
visible world : he possctsea the Bible and the blissful
experience, that the true religion of Christ has manifes-
ted itself as troth in his heart; and be would act very
criminally, if he suffered himself to be misled by pre-
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 180
·sumptuous curiosity, to seek intercourse with the invi-
sible world on this side the grave. But if this inter-
course comes of itself, by the developement of his facul-
ty of presentimerrt, let him not regard it ae any thing
extraordinary, but supplicate wisdom to b~ able to act
with it according to the will of God. But if any thing
ofa peculiar nature appear to him, let him go up to it
llDdismayed, in the name and fear of God, ~ot from
erimi!lal curiosity, but in compassionate charity; let him
then examine it closely and rationally, and if it really
be a being from the other world, let him ask with the
solemn dignity of a ·christian, and in the name of God
and Jesus Christ, what it desires? If the spirit then ex-
press itselfin such a manner, ,that he finds it is still in
error, he must seek to teach it better; but if it desire
any thing reasonable, let him fulfill its desire to the best
of his ability. In the following division ofthe work,
which treats solely and wholly of the appearance of spi-
rits, I will communicaie, for the information of the atu-
dious reader, very remarkable instances .of this kind.
I also advise the candid, though incredulous sceptic, to
·calm investigation; for there is really nothing more ne-
cessary than the application of every possible means to
obtain increasing certainty in a matter so inexpressibly
important.
Finally.-! leave it to the consideration .of every
190 .QJ( 1'0.8.JDJIGDIN011 ~C.
ratic.nal mind, whether a creation, which is govemed hy
intelligeueee, by free and rational beinga, ia not more
worthy of God, and more beneft~ and agzab1e to IIIIID,
than a world, lWiricll, ·with all the buman.zace, ia Under
aubjection t& the 8damantmeand unchangealale juriadic·
·tion of material·powen.
What is dftominllted witchcraA or enchatmeDt,
and·the belie!or mper.titima .faith iR it, ia al8o ..U
down from illl ·height iJno the quat, aince the times of
Becker and Thomasina. As. thia subject also atanda
connected with the developed faculty of preaentiment, it
is worth the while, and inemnbent upon me, to inves-
tigate it closely aud impartially, and according to truth.
It is certain, from a variety ofinstances, that.those
whose faculty oC presentiment is developed, may enter
into connelrion and intercourae with spirits. This I
have proved in th~ preceding pages, and will further de-
monstrate it.
It is quite as certain, that those spirits, with which
such a ·person comes into connexion, bear an affinity to
him, with reference to hia mot:ai character. Good spirits
join themselves to the good, wicked to the wicked, and
partially good and evil to those that are partially good
and evil.. Yet evil spirits, in the guise of angels of light,
Oir FORE"BoDOIGS1 &c. 191
l!8ek alao to deceive good men;· whllst goOd IDlgels sel-
dom associate with people whose faculty of presentiment
is de'veloped, 'because this is contrary to nature· and the
·di'rilie order;1lnless such persons are tar advanced iJa
aanetilication. All these are unqnesticmable experimental
troths, as I will more convincingly show in thesequel.
That wiclted men, either from a natural pre-dispo-
sition, or by means of certain arts, are capable of devel-
oping their f'acnlty ofpreiumtinient, and thus furming
connexiona with evil spirits, does not admit of a doubt ;
but whether evil spirits have !Jtill'tliat power, which su-
.perstition aseribes to them, is·another question. Sinl!e
the conquest ami triumph of our ~ver•blesaed Redeemer,
~eir tyranny and despotism over mankind have ceased:
those only are in bondage to them, who voluntarily let
themselves l>e led and misled by thetn: wicked.and im-
pious men are in their power~ but sdll'only as long as
they themselves are willing to be so. Evil spirits also
strive with all kinds of weapons against tme christians,
(Ephes. vi.) but they can never conquer, unless by the
man's own fault. Resist the devil, and he will flee from
you. He ·carries on his work only in the children of
disobedience, and in them he continues to exercise his
power.
Therefore supposing there are those, who stand in
192 OK FOJLBBODINOS, &c.
connexion with evil spirits, and are able to unite with
them for the purpose ofinjuring others, yet it is utterly
impossible for them to succeed in the attempt. Satan
can injure no man, nor hurta single hair ofhis head, un-.
less he himselfgive occasion to it, and open the door for
him. What is commonly believed concerning bewitch-
ing, and that a variety of diseases and bodily ailments,
both in men and .cattle, are occasioned by witchcraft, is
superstition, and commonly either delusion and deceit,
or a malady and casualty, which pbysiciahs have been
hitherto unable to explain from natural causes. Since
Jesus Christ baa sat down on the throne of the Majesty
on high, at his Father's right band, Satan bas no longer
power over the human race, whom he baa purcha<>cd with
his precious blood.
Witches and .wizards can therefore injure no one,
by their connexion ll'ith evil spirits, but they may do so,
like :my other wicked men, by administering poison, or
any other pernicious thing.
But whether a period may not still arrive, in whid1
Satan will be left at full liberty to try, by means of his
instruments, all his might and power, in order thus to
become fully ripe for judgment, and prove the fidelity of
the true worshippers of God, by a contlitt c\·cn unt·•
ON FOREBODINGS, &c. 193
blood, is another question. It is altogether a different
affair from what is generally termed witchcraft.
In order to give my readers a correct idea of this
infamous subject, I will relate to them its history :md
its true character.
Our ancient heathen forefathers had an order of
priests, whose members were called Druids. These
priests had a variety Qf mysteries, rites, and sacrifices,
which they celebrated in the gloom of oaken forests, and
of w\lich the vulgar were to remain in ignorance. It is
very probable, that in these practices, particularly be-
fore the time of Christ, much connex.ion with wicked
spirits, and satanic influence prevailed.
Into this mysterious, spiritual order, old women
were also received, who, by this means, attained to con-
siderable rank, and became priestesses. Such an indi-
vidual then received the title of Haxa-Druidess.
Both these n~WJ.es were, at that time, honorable appel-
lations, they are now the most disgraceful terms of re-
proach. The name of Gertrude or Gertrudis is probably
also derived from this source, and ought reasonably to
be disused; for it has the same meaning with the word
Haxa, or Hexe, a witch.
0
194
The1e witches auiated at the solemnities of the
Druids; they had aleo a particular solemnitJ of their
own, and a sacrificial feaat, which waa always celebra-
ted on a lofty mountain on the night of the fint of May,
when they danced, feaated, and honored their heatlaen
deitiea. The Brocken or Blocksberg, perha}» allo
Bocksberg in the Hartz, waa particularly famoua, and
there the idol waa worabipped wader thefigare,of a large
goat. In general, the office of thae Druids coaailcecl
in pronouncing benedictions, in conjura&ions, enchant-
ing, and diaenchanting, but chiefty in preparing medi-
cines and healing diseue1. Hence a certain number of
witches were alway• ob~ to gowith the army Ia war-
time, to heal the wounded. It il euy to 110nceive, that
where superstition, error, ignor811Ce, and even- wicked-
ness prevailed, in such a high degree, eyil spirits had
free operation, and to what. abominations IUCh heathens
might be ~educed.
In the south of Germany, chriatianity gradually
g,Uned ground; but in the north, in uppe~ and Lower
Saxony, two provinces, which at that time composed the
greatest partofNorthernGermany,heathenism continuCif
in all ita force, till Charlemagne at length totally con-
quered the Sa.xonsL and compelled them, aword in hand,
to accept the christian faith. But this very compulsion
O:N' FOB.EBOD1NGS0 &c. 195
was the reason, $bat thoilg}j. they publicly assisted at the
christian form of divin~ worship, yet they secretly long
continued their heathenish rites, till the light ofthe gos-
pel gradually dil!pelled all the·darkneas.
The witches remained the longest in actil'ity; for
as the people were stm destitute of physicians, and could
therefore have reoourse ~ no· one, nor had so milch con-
fidence .·Ui any·one as in tb.ew, they therefore applied t!l
them on all oecuions, when. they required their ~ssist­
ance; enchanting and di~enchanting, bles11ing, conjuring
of spirtts, &c. co~tinued t;o be p.ractised; and as the·
witch~ believe(!, they CQuld, :n()t p.erform the one, if thf:l
other were not uni~ with it, they therefore continued,
thoUgh secretly,their sacrificial feasts on.Walburg's night,
at the Blocksberg, notwithstanding it was prohibited on
pain of being liumt alive. It is assertf:ld, from real traces
having been discovered, that these meetings were conti-
nued till the co~menoeml)nt of the seventeenth cent\U'Y.
Several years ago. there appeared $ boo~, entitled,
UHUHU, or the history of witches, gho5ts, goldfinders,
and apparition~, published by George Adam Kayser~
Erfnrt, 1785, in which the a.Ronymous ~uthor furnishes
extracts from ancient criminal documents and processes.
These, it is true, show the irrational and revolting me-
thods of procedure at that.time, against those poor crea..
196 ON FOREBODINGS, &c.
tures that were suspected ofwitchcraft, compelling them,
by torture, to confess things of .themselves and othen,
which had previously never entered into their minds;
but notwithstanding all this, there are also numerous vo-
luntary confessions, from which the candid imd impar-
tial reader may clearly perceive, that a mo!>t corrupt
imagination, filled with the most impure and abominable
ideas, was united to a developed faculty of presentiment,
by means of which, the wretched creatures had con-
nexion and. intercoune with wicked and impure spirits,
who promised them all sorts of fine things, deceived them
in all manner of ways, made theni believe they could oc·
casionally do wonders, and by this means injure those
whom they had a spite against; but at the bottom it was
all juggling and delusion.
I will not deny, that such wretches ha¥e occasion-
ally done their fellow creatures much harm, and that evil
spirits hue assisted them, both in word und deed; but
Satan cannot injure any one directly, nor do so by means
of such wicked instruments, when the individual himself
does not give him an opportunity of doing so, by laying
aside the fear of God.
I am acquainted with a tale, for the truth of which
I can vouch, because it is taken from the official docu-
ments of an old witch process. An old woman was im-
ON 'FOREBODINGS, &c. 197
prisoned, put to the torture, and confessed all that witches
are generally charged with. Amongst others, she also
denounced a neighbour of hers, who had been with her '
on the Blocksberg, the preceeding, Wallburg's night.
This woman was ealled, and asked if it were true, what
the prisoner said of her1 On which she stated, thaton
Wallburg's Eve, she had called upon this woman, because
she ·had someth~ to say- to her. On entering her
kitchen, she found the prisoner busy in preparing a de-
coction of herbs. On asking her what she was boiling,
she said with a smiling and mysterious mien, ~· Wilt
thou go with me to-night to the Brocken?" From cu-
riosity, and in order to ascertain what there was in the
matter, she answered, "Yes, I should like to go wen·
enough." On which, the prisoner chattered some time·
about the feast, :md the dance, and the enormous goat.
She then drank of the decoction, and offered it to her,
saying, " There, take a hearty drink of it, that thou
mayest be able to ride through the air; .she likewise put
the pot to her mouth, and made as if she drank of it, but
did not taste a drop. During this, the prisoner had put
a pitchfork between her legs, and placed herself upon the
hearth ; that she soon sank down,and began to sleep and
snore: after having looked on for some time, she was at
length tired of it, and went home.
The nextmorning, the prisonet ca.me\.Cl\\e""t?.."-~~?..\.~,
198 OJI POR'I:8oDINGS1 &c.
" Well, bowdoet tbon like being at the Brocken? Sith,
there were glorious doings." On whit:h she bad laughed
heartily, and told her that she bad not drank of the po-
tion, and that she, the prisoner, had not been at the
Brocken, but bad slept with her pitchfork upon the
hearth. That the woman on this became angry, and
said to her that she ought not to deny having been at
' the Brocken, and having danced, and ~ the goat.
This fact gives us a key to the otherwise incom-
prehensible confeuione of those ealled witches. This
must han been one of the magic potions of the ancient
Dndda, by means of which, an imagination already en-
tirely filled with devilish imagery, might through the
sleep occasioned by the potion, become eo elevated, as
to make the poor deluded women firmly believe, that all
they dreamed was reality. In this way, almost every
thing which occurs in these judicial proceedings, may be
explaioed, though otherwise incredible.
Such persona ought to be taught better, and to be
convinced of the abominable nature of such habits of
• thinking. Ifthey are convicted of having done hann to
their neighbour, which ought not however to be brought
about by torture, let them be punished according to the
measure of their crime; but not aa witches.
OJ{ FG&EBODUfGS, &c. 199
Here I Dwlt allude to. a rice, which is very preva-
I~t UJ.ongst the lower class, and which, in my eyes, is '
more detestable than witchcraft itaelf; that is, when one
person, from a mere unfounded supposition, causes
another to be suspected of witchcraft. This is horrible!
I.have known aeveralinstances,where the peasantwomen,
merely from hatred or envy, have caused the. sus-
picion flf witchcraft to attach to some honest and pious
neighbour. of theirs, when perhaps a cow gave bloody
·milk, or something ailed a child. Such a suspicion
spreads like a pestilential vapour from ear to ear, in
every direction, and then the whole earthly happiness of
die innocent family .is at an end. Every ·one avoids
them; no one associates, without necessity, with any of
its members: people are afraid to buy of them, or deal
with.them, and no one likes to marry into the family.
Now doesnot the individual that raises such a suspicion•
commit the sin of sorcery7.Such satanic beings deserve
being burnedt sooner than a poor witch.
Christ says expressly, that he will measure unto
eRery one that judges thus uncharitably, with the same
measure, which he ~ used to his neighbour : that is,
he that declares a fellow-creature to be asorcerer or a
witch, shall be judged aa such himself.
When we read the late M. Eckhartshausen's Key to
200 OK l'O&ZBODINOI, &e.
Magic, we must feel astonished at the wonderful thi~
which may be effected by art: but we discover also the
dbn line of demarcation between the visible and the in-
visible world.
In the second edition of hia book, published at
Munich, by Jos. Lentner, 1791, page 57, he relates a
molt remarkable and instructive incident. To insert it .
here entirely in his own words, would exceed my limitll;
I will therefore content myself with quoting the sub-
stance of it.
Eckhartahausen became acquainted with a Scots-
man, who, though he meddled not with the conjuration
of spirits, and such like charlatanry, had learned how-
ever a remukable piece of art from a Jew, which hl'
communicated also to Eckhartshausen, and made the
experiment with him, which is surprising and worthy of
peru~. He th~U wishes to raise, and see any particu-
lar spirit, must prepare himself for it, for some days to-
gether, both spiritually and physically. There are ulso
particular and remarkable requisites and relations neces-
sary betwixt such a spirit and the person who wishes to
see it; relations, which cannot otherwise be explained,
than on the ground of the intervention of some secret
influence from the invisible world, After all these pre-
pantions, a vapour ia prod.uced.m\\'tOOU\, U(l'\"\\. ~~:.~\.~
ON. FOREBODINGS, &c. 201
materials, which Eckhartshausen with propriety does not
divulge, on account of the dangerous abuse which might
be made of it, which visibly forms itself into a figure,
which bears a resemblance to that which the person
wishes to see. In this there is no question ofany magic
lantern or optical artifice ; but the vapour really forms
a human figure, similar to that which the individual de-
sires to behold. I will now insert the conclusion of the
story in )i:ckhartshausen's own words.
. " Some time after the departure of the stranger,
that is ofthe Scotsman, I made the experiment for one
of my friends. He saw as I did, and had the same sen-
sations.
" The observations that we made, were these. As
soon as the ingredients wei:e. thrown into the chafing-
di.ili, a whitish body forma itself, that s.eems to hover
above the chafing-dish as large as life.
" It possesses the likeness of the person whom we
wished to ~~ee, only the visage is of an ashy paleness.
" On approaching the figure, one is conscious of a
resistance similar to what is felt, when going against
a strong wind, which drives one back.
202 ON FOKJ:BODINGI1 &c.
" If one speaks with it, one rememben no more
distinctly what is spoken; and when the appearance
vanishes, one feel& as if awaking from a dream. The
head is stupified, and a contraction ie felt in the abdo-
men. It is also very singular, that the same appearance
presents itself, when one is in the dark,.or when lookmg
upon dark objects.
" The unpleaaantnesa of this eenution, was the
reason, why I was unwilling to repeat the experiment,
although often urged to do so by many persona.
" A young gentleman once came to me, and would
par.furct see this phenomenon. As he was a person of
tender nerves and lively imagination, I was the more re-
luctant to comply with his requeat, and asked the advice
of a very experienced physician, to whom I revealed the
whole mystery. He maintained that the IW'COticingre-
dients, which formed the vapour, must of neceasity vio-
lentlytdfect the imagination, and might be very injuri-
ous according to circumstances ; he also believed that
the preparation which was prescribed, contributed much
to excite the imagination, and told me to make the trial
for myeelf, with a very email quantity, and·without any
preparation whatever. I did eo one day after dinner,
when the physicianhad ~n dining with me :but scarce-
lyhad I cast tbe quantum of ingt~\el\\a \l\\n \.\\.~ ~\\a~l\~
, ON I?OREBODINGI, &c. 203
dish, when a figure presented itself. I was however,
seized with such a horror, that I was obliged to· leave
the room. I was very ill during three hours, and thought
I mw the figure always befure me. Towards evening,
after inhaling the fumes of vinegar, and drinking it with
water, I was better again : but for three weeks after-
wards, I felt a debility ; and the strangest part of the
matter is, that when I remember the circumstance, and
look for sQme time upon any dark object, this ashy pale
figure stills presents itselfvery vividly to my sight. Af-
ter this, I no longer dared to make any experimen~
with it.
"rhe aame atranger gave me also another powder,
and auerted that ifitwere bumt in a churchyard, during
the night, a multitude of the dead would be seen hover•
. ...
inJ over the graves : but as this powder consisted of
narcotic ingredients, which were still more potent, I
never ventnred to make the attempt.
" Be the matter, however, as it may, it is still sin-
gular, and deserves the investigation of naturalists. I
haTe already procured the opinion ofseveral learned men
ad friends, and malile no seeret to them of the ingredi-
ents, but do not find it advisable to make them public.
I annex a striking and remarkable letter, from a man of
proloWJd reflection, regarding thia -pheuomeuou.
204- ON FORBBODINGS1 &c.
" Extract from a letter, dated W--, 17th Dec.
1785.
"'--- Thus there arc, really, things in natur~
of which our philosophy does not permit us to dream.
The Deity has concealed much from mortals, and the
Eternal has with reference to us, affixed his immutable
seal upon many ofnature's mysteries. All ia not imagi-
natio~, much may be reality; for remember, dear air,
that at one time immense oceans were the divisions that
separated us from men, whom Europeans knew not, and
that there are similar walls of partition between us and
other beings, of whom we mortals have hitherto no idea.
Much may be deceit and delusion, but assuredly all is
not so. Swedcnborg and Falck were certainly no de-
ceivers, and yet their existence is to us a mystery, and
will perhaps remain so to many, till the grapes are ripe
on the vine, and the time of the vintage arrives. J
would not wish to number S"chro~ptrer and Boehmer with
the twl) former, although much respecting them ia still
enigmatical to me. Man haa invented ships, and com-
menced an intercourse with unknown nations that dwell
beyond the seas; why should it be impossible to form a
connexion with the world of spirita, since all is a chain,
and all makea a whole?'"
0!1 FOREBODINGS, &c. 205
remarkable, but too prolix to be inserted here. The
powder especially, t.hat was·to cause the dead to be seen
in the churchyards, is extremely .remarkable. I know
to a certainty, and my venerable friend Pfeffel know11 it
likewise, from a remarkable incident, that there are men,
whose faculty of presentiment is so developed, with res-
pect to the organ of vision, that they see. vapoury forms
of human resemblance above the graves, occasionally in
the day time, but more frequently in the night. I am of
opinion that this is the resurrection-germ, which no phy-
~ical power of nature can destroy. But the reason why
.those who have this faculty of seeing it, see only a few,
and by no means all, because the whole atmosphere
must be filled with them, is probably this; that this germ
is much more gross and material hi one than another. It
is not however probable, that the departed soul resides
in it, but that it clothes itself with it, when intending to
appear to any one.
89 much appears to me tO' be evident, that the ter-
rible vapour that forms itself into a human figure, pro-
duces this figure in the brain, because it shews itselflong
afterwards. when looking at any thing black, or closing
the eyes ; but it is also equally probable, that an appa-
ritiQn from the invisible world, or something from its
confines, ~xes with it, because in the chu.rchyards; it is
206 Otf I'O&EBODINGI, &c.
not merely one, but several figures which are vilible, and
it is, once for all, a certain fact, that the reaur-
.rection-germs,for so I willat present call them, are there,
not iD imagination, but really and essentially.
It is also remarkable, that those fine IUbatancea
which approach near to the world of spirits, are preju-
dicial to health. They therefore act like the cherub's
circling sword o( flame, which restrains die. presumption
ofman, and keeps it within due bounds.
All the arts of this de~eription, which are met with
in books on magic, and occasionally in the writings of
ancient authors, as also in variou:~ individuals of the
lower class, such as exorcists, quackcioctors, &c. must
always be regarded as relics of heathenism ; for traces of
things of this nature are to be found both in the sacred
writings and such as are profane. ~lagnetism, magic-
potions, magical perfumes, and who knows how many
other different means, which are now. lost, were em-
ployed to develop the faculty of presentiment, to form
a connexion with the invisible world, and to learn .things
which man in this life onght not to know. All the hea-
then oraclea. and all their Fetended wonders sprang
from this 10uroe. Their enchanters and enchantres'!H
were initiated iR these mysteries.
OX !'OB.EBODINGS, &c. 207
The ancient Israelites had also a strong propensity
to auch like things. The Witch of Endor is a proof of
this. King Saul had sought to exterminate the sooth~
sayers and diviners, which was very proper, and accord-
ing to the Mo.aic Law. Some of theae people, however,
still remained concealed; and as the king had lost the
divine favour, and could exJ>ect no answer from thence,
yet w~ anxiously desirous of knowing the result of the
war, he.sought counsel from the enchantres!il of Eqdor,
who must have been repowned in het art. The ~~it~iug
of spirits w~s therefore a matter whi<;h was known at
that time, but justly prohib.ited on pain o.f death.
The Enchantress received orders to raise the de--
ceased prophet Samuel, who, with all the rest of the
Old Testament Saints, abode in Hadel!, in a state of
blisaful rest, until the conqueror of· death <;onducted
them in triumph into the mansions prepared fot them.
The woman employed h.er. art; but ins~ad of one
of her familiar spirits, that was to have acted the part
of Samuel, he appeared him~lf, by the divine permis-
sion and instiga.tion. This the witch had not expected,
she therefore cried out for fear, and said, "I see Elohim,
something divine!" Samuel then announced to Saul,
that the following d~y,h,e, wQV}d be with him in the realm
of the l}ead, or of spi,rits. This story is in many res-
20A OX FO&EBODINOB, &c.
pects rem~kable, because, on calmly reflecting upon it,
it developes many ideaa, which shed light on this obscure
subject.
I have expatiated at length upon the subject of pre-
sentiments, predictions, and enchantments, or generally
speaking, upon the developed faculty of presentiment,
because I regarded it as highly necessary on account of
its important reliult. This result I will now lay down
in sincerity, and in the name of the Lord. 0 that I
could write it in letters of 1lame, or sound it in the ears
of all my contemporaries, that so it might thrill through
every nerve, for the time is fast approaching when it
will be needed !
Every artificial mode of d~velo,.Ping the faculty of
presentiment, and of entering into conncxion and inter-
course with the world ofspirits, every attempt at it is a
sin of sorcery, and seriously and severely forbidden by
God. Ifit come of itself to pious and enlightened per-
sons, they must not make much account of it, but.rather
1\Void than seek its consequences, and use it with fear
and trembling, and with wisdom, for the good of man-
kind.
.
The great events of the present age excite, every
where, the nervoua system to anxious expectation of the
ON PO&&'BODI'N'GS1 &c. 209
approaching future. Persons of weak nerves, who, by
the perusal of the predictions contained in the Bible, ana
the explanations given of them, presumptuously begin
to ruminate upon them with the desire ofknowing future
events, instead of letting themselves be led by it, to re-
pentance and true conversion, may, by this means, easily
develop their faculty of presentiment in a greater or less
degree, according as their corporeal disposition permits.
The elevation, the exalted feeling, the new discoveries,
and the enlightened il(light which accompany it, con-
vince the individual, that what is passing in him, is a
very peculiar operation of the Holy Spirit; but believe
me, assuredly and confidently, that this is not the case.
Such an one may certainlysay excellent and very useful
things, and even be the means of really doing good; but
before the man is aware, a false spirit, in the guise of an
angel of light, mixes itself in the matter, and the poor
creature is deceived.
Such person~ often predict things to come, which
punctually take place; but this is by no means a proof
of any thing divine, as is evident from what has been al-
ready said. The true spirit of prophecyis something
very different, as I will now demonstrate.
My dear readers, all ofyou! The great and gene-
ral trial, or hour of temptation, in which the fidelity of
p
~10
the true worshippers of Chmt, that fidelity which en·
dures even UDte blood. aball be putto the teet and nand
~ trial.ia DO I~ remote. Byit llhall t:boee be made
IWUiiteast, throughoutthe chriatiau world, ad aealed, who
are. wonh,. of the glorioua kiDgdom of leta. Christ, ita
citilJen!Wp, ad the tnt resmnear..
This great temptation will be twofold. On the one
side, SUan aud hi& hott will lltl:ain every oene tQ de-
ceive the faith&U ldherelds oi .-, by 1tro.g delu-
sions, (2 Thesa. ii. 9-12.) Thote ..-weUD. • inmu-
ments to this encl. who, armed with inquiliti:Ye~
tion, are· eager after the knowledge of my...._ &Dd
allow themselves the practice of every kind of art. in
order to enter into conoexioll with the invisible world.
But the individuals he finda part.ieulady suitable for his
purpose, are those whOle faculty of preaentimeat is de-
veloped, and who mistakenly long after secret gratifica.
tion. These poor souls are the most capable of becom-
ing false pzophets, and likewise the molt eapable of de-
ceiring others.
When they taen say unto you. " Hem is Christ. •
there is Christ, thiSwill take plac~ or that will happea.
go this way or that way, now is the time to depart out
of Babylon, to tbia place or that." giTe it ua credence;
but c:almly, ill tlle aeJCise ohrakhiDg and pnyer, bep
0)1 FOUBODI:WU, &e. Ill
t.H "One thiDg needful" iD vie1f, and continue in true
aimpUeity and in the pure doctrine of the Ootpcl, what-
evM may Defall you. He i1 mighty in them that are
weak, and lays no heavier bunlen upon his faithinl ones
than they are able to bear. ·In the most distressing sea-
sons you •hall ~perience the greatestjoy; tberefote be
.110t afraidI
On tAe othe~ lid.. Ole satanic .host, mcre!lible .. it
mal.DGW-appear, wiJ11fiao employ $ueh lyiltg aigha and
wooc;lera, for the purjlose aC deceiving the limple, and
iDduein8 them to wanhip the Beast. I at~ remember
v.ery well, thatthis had alre.ady become the subject ofl!on-
vetsatioa in a certaia order, ad a grea• and extensh·e
as80ciation is really riliDg up ag-whose obje~ are
comprehensive. It-is nmlarkable U1at even infidelity be-
gins to think of a eonaexion. with the invisible world,
whieb it foi'IDIItl'lJ ~clto KDrlt. "Wateh and.pray,
lest ye fAll into ·temptation;" " the tpirit is williDg, but
tbe fteth is weak."
About twenty years ago, when Messmer and Gass-
ner began their irlt expsimen• with magnetism,· the
idea arose ia some placet. even amongst pious and up-
right.metr, wbethet the biblical womlerworkers, and even
Chtiat himself, hac1 n~ perhaps made uae of similar
meana. Subuquentl'y, when t.he ef&cta of the faculty of
/
212 01f PO.RBJIODINGI, &e.
presentiment, namely, the prediction offuture events was
added to it, the idea wu also combined with it, whether
the prophets had not likewiie prophesied by means of a
de¥eloped faculty of presentime~t.
They meant well ; for in tbe formercase, tltey hoped
in some measure to render assistance to reason, with
respect to miracles; and in the latter, they were desirous
of affording, by this means, a prop to•the credibility of
biblical prophecy ; but may G~oualy preserve us
from such assistance, and from IIUCh a prop! No mag-
netism could restore life to the body of Lazarua, whieh
was already in the first atage of corruption, and just as
little could magnetized water be made into wine. All
the wonders which the Bible relates, and which to rea-
son appear so incredible, are so to us for this reason, be-
cause ourideas ofmatter and of bodies are entirely erro-
neous. This is not the place to elucidate the subject; I
will, however, lay down the following propoaition as an
infallible axiom, for the consideration of the inquirer af-
ter truth:-
Neither matter nor bodies exist out of time and
space; every thing there is realized idea of God; there
the whole creation consists entirely of first principlea,
which every rational thinking.being views according to
his inward organization. We mortals necessarily regard
05 POB.EBODI5GI1 &c. 213
them in dme and space, but ought not to imagine that
they are so in themilelves, or that they are considered so
in the divine mind, or by other spirits.
He that maturely weighs this proposition, will no
longer find any difficulty as it respects real miracles;
and he will soon perceive, that none but God alone can
work true wonders, that is, can change one first princi-
ple into another, anclt~at this brings no confusion into
external nature. I~w pass on to the subject of pro-
pnecie~~ in orderto show how infinitely different they are
to the effects of the faculty ofpresentiment.
We have two revelations of God ; the visible crea-
tion, and the Bible. These two contain, together, all
that is ne?es11ary for us to know for our earthly and eter-
Dal welfare. So long as any one teaches or prophesies
thatwhich is in accordance with these divine revelations,
and founded upon them, we may and we oughtto receive
it as divine truth; but as soon as the teacher affirms,
that God has revealed it to him, he makes himself sus-
pected, because God does not repeat again, what he has
once solemnly revealed to·man. It is, therefore, nothing
else, than the enlightening of the Holy Spirit, which is
grapted to the preacher, by which he is enabled, more
clearly to unfold the truths he announces, and to present
them more impresaively to view.
214 Oll J'O&BIIODINM, &e.
When any one explains biblical propbeci.ea, and
ahowa either what is already fulfilled, or IDlllt 1000 be
accomplished, but apeeks positively in the latter cue,
and even affirms that it has been divinely revealed to
him, he again makes himaelf auapeeted.
When any one predicts or propheaiea aornething
that stands opposed to divine revelation, and givea it out
u divine tzuth, he iB certainly a ~.prophet; but if it
be not contrary to the Holy S~ea, and yet be not
founded in them, it is a new doctrine. Now thillatteria
the principal point to be decided; fur none o!tha former
cases are doubtful ; every true christian will and must
say, yea, and amen to them.
When a person, whom we regard as a most religi-
ous c~aracter,. tells us something new, that is not oppo-
sed to the doctrines of the Holy Scriptures, but which
cannot be proved from them, the question arise•, How
are we to act in such a case?
There are people who are very lincere and pi0111,
but who are fond of the extraonftnary and marvelloUJ,
and have imperceptibly formed ~ themaelves a favorite
system, which they endeaTour likewise to prove, in their
way, from the Bible. Now, when thete penona fiad
an author, or any other individual, who pretenda to di-
vine revelations, which are in unilon with their ayatem,
Olf FORBBOl>lliGI, &c4 215
they receive them,'_
without heeitation,aa divine; it being
presupposed, that he who prophecies is a true christian.
They adduce as the ground of this belief, that the Holy
Spirit, who dwells in the true christian, wiU aot permit
him to be deceived by false revelationa. That this
ground of confidence is entirely falae, is soon and inCDn6
testibly proved.
The late Go&Uiied Arnold, who certainly was a
true christian, and alextremely learned and we116 read
man, had himselfa strongpredilection wr the extraorcli..
nary and marvelloue, aa all his writinge testify ;• he
therefore furnishes us, in the preaent case, with the
most unexceptionable evidence in favor of my proof. In
his History of the Chureh ·and Heretic&, he hu intro~
duced, if not all, yet certainly the most remarkable
individuals, who have prophesied of future eventa aince
the timea of the Apoatlea. Now if we strictly and im•
partially ex.&mine all their prophecies, f'tom the date of
their promulgation to the preaent time, and compare
them with history, we shall find, that in all of them,
• The translator, who has read several of this author's ,
works, cannot agree in the statement here expressed, as they
consist chiefly of translations from the most approved writings
of the primitive fathers. The work subacquently noticed, is
the onlyone,as far as the traualator'a knowledgeUteDds, which
is liable to censure on tbis point.
216 05 FOBEBODI11G81 &c.
.truth and falsehood are mingled together. Some fayorite
idea shows itself in all these revelations, which, with the
true, must pass for divine. None of these prophecies
have bee• wholly and punctually fulfilled; some things
always, but others not at all. We therefore cannot and
ought not to rely upon them; for we do not know what
is true or false, of that part of them which is aqll unful-
filled. It is therefore incontestibly true, that the Holy
Spirit baa not insured theae iudiv~uak, though certainly
pious characters, against decePim and error.• Bat
this is only natural, for the Holy Spirit teaches and en-
lightens ; he awakens delight in, and love to all that is
good, and an abhorrence of all that is evil ; but be does
not eompel the freewill in the smallest degree. Man
continues at liberty to resist the Holy Spirit, to take
fancy for reality, and a developed faculty of presenti-
ment for the gift of prophecy. But he does not, on this
account, forsake the individual, if the latter continues
sincere and errs with a real love for the truth. As soon,
however, as the man makes his error his favorite max-
im, and article of faith, and his idol, and consequently
becomes an enthusiast, the Spirit of God gradually de-
parts from him, and those that are in this lamentable
state, then become dangerous instruments of Satan and
his kingdom.
• "All that we know is in part," said Paul, who certainly
bad re<:eived the Holy Spirit.
ON I'CR.EBODINGS, &e. 217
This I affirm in the name of the Lord, as a p-uth,
in support of which I will live and die; and I assert it,
because there never was a period, siDee the creation of
the world, in which it was so necessary as at .present.
My readers will now. probably expect, and that
justly, that I should show how the true prophet is dis-
tinguished from a mere prognosticator, .and a revelatioR
that is really divine, from a developed faculty of prellen-
timent.
When any one, even the most pious of men, affirms
that God has revealed to him, that some particular event
will take place, or that such and such is the nature of
some subject still unknown, to us, I may not and dare.
not believe him, merely upon his:own word, for he may
easily be much mistaken. But if I regar~ it as a mat-
ter of indifference which does not concern me, whilst it
really is a divine revelation, I should sin deeply; for
how can or ought any thing to be indifferent to me, of
which God causes some one to iDform me.
What am I, therefore, and what ought I to do?
Shall I say, "I do not. believe thee. Since the
times of the apostles, there are no more true predictions,
nor real prophets;" this would be captious presumption,
211 OX i'Oa:&110DIXOI, &c.
founded upon nothing, and alao oontrary to the apirit of
prophecy, wh.icla diatiDctly atatea, that in the lut timea,
and perhaps ere long, ai.gna, wooden, ud propbecia
will.occur.
Or shall I believe him on hia bare auertion1 I
cannot do this, because he may be miataken; not na
when he refen me to a "riaioD of angela, though he pl'Oft
to me that the apparition waa real, aacl not a decepdoD;
for who will aasure me, that the 'being who appeua. ia
a good spirit, or ifhe be, that he eannot errt
But I must not continue iDdift'erent in the Dl&tter :
what then remaiDa for me to do1 the only thing that
remain• is, that the prophet inconteltibly pl'OVe to me,
that God haa sent him; he mu.t ahow me hia credentials,
aud theae muat consist in an act, which iJ cmJy poaible
for God to perform ; that iJ, he muat do real wonden iD
the name of 1eaua Chriat. I aay rr.J 'I!JOflden, for then
are •ery many arta and myateriea in nature, which appear
to be real wooden, but are by no meana 10. Ouly read
EckhartshaUJen'a writings, particularly his Key to Magic,
and the reader will be enabled to defend himself agaiDat
being deceived by falae wondera. The miracles ofChrist,
the pl'Opheta, and apoati.,, ahow what real wonclen are,
and what eharacteriJtica they ought to poaae•.
o• POBBBODING11 &c. 210
We find in the Holy Scripturea, from beginning to
end, that God endowed all his measengera to man, with
the gift of working miracles, and Chriat knew very well,
that it could not be expected that men should believe
him and his apostles, merely upon hi• word; he there-
fore oollinned biR doetrine by great and remarkable mi-
raelee, anci his dilciplea did the same. Miracles are now
no lcmger neeeanry for that purpose, and for the confir-
mation of what we know, and of what has been revealed
to U8; but aa soon as new revelations are necessary,
miracles are also necessary. Though an angel were to
appeu to me, or even Christ himself, yet he must satis-
factorily prove to me, that he really is, what he pretends
to be, becauae I may be deeeived by falee spirits. This
precautionindemandmg auch a proof, ofwhich we findre•
markable inatanceein the Bible, God has never been of-
lmded will: on thecontrary, he condeacended, with great
lorbelll'Ulce, to the requesttl of thoseindividuals,whom be
detriped to me aa instruments in the execution of hia
pmpoaa.. It ia here worthy of remark, that the priest
Zachariaa, who did not believe the angel Gabriel upon
hia word, but demanded a sign, and to whom the sign of
dumbneas was given, received IUCh a strong memento as
a reproof. Here all depends upon whether Zacharias
knew the angel or not. In the former caae, it was crimi·
nal unbelief, in the latter, necesaary precaution, to de-
mand a sign. That he really knew the angel is
220 ON. FOB.EBODINGI, &c.
beyov.d a doubt; for Gabriel certainly did not appear to
him in a dubious fonn.
:Finally.-We have still to add, that the style ofthe
prophets is still more definite and sublime, than that
.which predictors generally employ. If we read in the
above-mentioned History of the Church and Heretics,
the language made use of by those pious indhidualsthat
have prophesied, we shall soon perceive the great differ·
ence that exists.
When we minutely consider what Moses relates of
Balaam, it appears more than probable, that he prophe-
sied by means of a developed faculty of presentiment.
His whole cond11ct shows, that he was not a real pro-
phet ofGod, but his history provP.S, that he heard divine
words, which is als~ the case with many wh8 prophesy
by the means above-mentioned. It is remarkable what
ia said of him in Numbers, xxxiv. i. which verse, in the
original sense, is as follows ; " And Balaam saw that it
was good in the sight of Jehovah to bless Israel; there-
fore went he not as he was wont to do, to divinations,
but, &c." There were, therefore, even at that time, in-
stitutions where divination might be learnt, and thOSt"
were probably nothing else than schools, in which was
taught the art of developing the faculty ofpresentiment,
and of coming into connexion with the invisible world.
ON fOREBODINGS, &c. 221
The way and manner in which Jehovah revealed
himself to the prophets is not fVlly known. However,
we know so much concerning it, aa that it took place, at
one time by visions and dreams, at another by an ~ut­
ward audible voice, and perhaps also by an inward men-
tal communication, and by the ministry of angels. But
their mission was always accompanied by extraonHnary
circumstances, and manifested with much solemnity,
and in a manner befitting the divine majesty. Their
prophecies referred chiefly to some very distant period,
whither no faculty of presentiment could reach. Isaiah
prophesied above six hundred years before the birth of
Christ, and predicted his sufferings; and all the prophets
announce, two thousand five hundred years beforehand,
the glorious kingdom of peace.
222
CHAP. IV.
ON VISIONS AND APPARITIONS OF• SPIRITS,
I come now, finally, to the most importnnt, as well as
the most difiicnlt part of my Theory of Pneumatology.
The whole •ubject is generally treated as 1omethingsu-
perstitious and degrading. It belongs to good-breeding
and refinement, to smile at ghost-stories, and to deny
the truth of them, and yet it is curious, that people are
so fond of hearing them told, and that besides this, the
incredulous narrator-commonly seeks to make them as
probable as possible.
Superstition is something mean and contemptible ;
and as all apparitions of spirits are declared to be super-
stition, it is therefore natural, that people are ashamed
of appearances of this nature. But here, every thing
depends upon tbis, whether all the narrations of such
appearances be only deception, falsehood, and supersti-
Oli Al'PABUIOKI, &c. 223
tion.· It ia certain that the greatest part of them are 10 ;
but it is equally certain and true, that the souls of de-
parted meu occasionally reappear a&er death, and show
themaelves to the living, sometimes for a shorter, and
at other timea fur a longer period, even for centuries
togethet. desU:ing some service from them. In the ful-
lowiDg pagea. 1 will ineontestibly prove the truth of
tlUs uaertion.
If I show the reality ol the thing, the proof of the
poaaibility ofit is unnece1111ary; but when we bclieTe
any thiDg to be impossible, we doubt every proof of its
reality; therefore. in order to obTiate tbiJ, I ha.ve shown
iR the two fu:st chapters of this work, that the common
seholaatic ideas of human nature w:e totally false, and
that it ia very ponihle, that a 1oul, divested of its body,
m&y again became visible, The queation is therefore
decided, aa it regards philosophy; but not so with res~
pect to many ofthe teachers ofreligion: for as real appa·
ritioDa of deparaecl mob. prove, to a demonstration, that
there is a mid4ile p1aee, a realm of the dead, (Hades,) in
which those 88ulaare detained,whir:hare 11ot yet ripe for
either ofthe place&of tbeir tleltination,mW. are therefuUy
prepared b the one m: the other;.thoee divines who are
dairoua of contimtiDg faitkful, m this instance, to the
articles of the proRI!taJit taith, must either say, that the
tnest aarntion.a Gf tbe re-appelll'BIJee of deceased indi-
224 O'N Al'PARITIONS, &e.
duals are false, or else that t~ey are the haunting& of evil
spirits.
To this I reply, tl1at if I state my proof of the truth,
honestly and fully, which I certainly will not fail to do,
truth is, and continues to be truth, and I will shdw with
equal certainty, that such appearances are not the haunt-
ings of evil spirits. Nor have the Holy Scriptures any
thing at all to objectagainst my theory; on the contrary,
they are iu favour of it. Finally, I beg the reader to
reflect, whether the real apparition of a departed spirit,
without the co-operation of any one, can be called su-
perstition. Is that superstition, when fully conscious
of myself, I see an ignis-fatuus, or any other rare natu·-
ral phenomenon1 In the present case it on1y depends
upon the use made of it. I shall therefore also show the
rational and christian-like manner, in which a person
ought to act, in the event of an apparition of this nature.
By the word "vision," I understand an appearance
which a person sees, without any real object being there :
it the~efore only exists in the imagination,.and is conse-
quently a mere dream, which is, however, regarded by
him that has it, as a reality. Yet visions distinguish
themselves from common dreams, in this, that they are
connected, and are like the reality; as also, that a per-
son may have them waking. I request that this defini-
ON APPARITIONI, &c. 225
tion may be always coupled with the word " vision,·•
whenever it appears in the sequel.
From this view of the matterit is clear, that a vision
signifies ~othing at all; for it proves nothing more than
a lively imagination, and a natural disposition to regard
ita images as som~thing real. Hysterical and hypochon-
driacal persons are inclined to visions. They have them,
either with or without fits. These kind of people also
easily develop their faculty of presentiment, so tyat they
easily come into connexion with the invisible world.
Every thing is then jumbled together, and much know-
ledge and experience is nece~sary, to distipguish a vision
from a real apparition. The principle and basis, upon
which all such investigations must be carried on, is as
follows.
If more than one individual, without previous com-
munication, and unexpectedly, see an apparition, or if
only one person sees it, and the rest witness actions,
which can have no other origin than from the apparition,
it is then no vision, but the real appearing of a spirit.
Examples shall fully elucidate and establish these pro-
positions.
About the year 1795, one summer's evening, at six
o'clock, after.! had read my last lecture for the day,
Q
116
and re-entered my llhdy, (it was at Marbarg,) a atu-
dent came to me, with whom I wu well acqneiatecl,
he being one ofmy worthiest hearen, and ill still a molt
excellellt mau, both u to head aud heart. He Ills et
present, an importaat oftioe in t.be ..neeol a Dlu-
trioua prince. I reeeind him with cordiality, and 1Mde
him lit dowD bMide .... & thea ltatad to •e, that in
the year 1766, aomeddag l'8IIIUbhie bad occarrecl ill
his family: Ida &daer, 1rlao wu cbea a )'OIIDg auua ol
aboat twenty yean ot ace, 1fM fnqaeatly ?ilited by a
apirit. His grand-father, who wu the teacJaer oCa LaaiD
~chool, had minntely written down tbe wbole atWr, aDd
had cauaed it to be printed., but thit woa ccmiaed to a
rew copies, in order to leave them to his children and
grand-children, as an instructive leaon, and a perpe·
tual memorial. Some of the nearest relatives had. abo
received a copy. He now felt in hia pocket and ga\·c
me his to read, after which, he took his leave, aDd went
away. I read this moat remarkable document with sur-
prise and astonishment, and then retamecl it to ita pos·
:.e11or with thanks.
However deeply the facta the11118lvea were impzes-
sed npon my memory, yet there were so many ramarlt-
able drcumstances united with them, which it was im-
possible for me to recollect, tllat I beattily wished to
p011e11 the book myael4 or at least, that ~ might be
ON APPAaRIO!I'S, &c. 227
lent to me, wheneTer l ahoq]fl write the preaent work,
for which I have been prepariug many years; and
singular enough, when travelling about ten years ago,
tluoagh the provmce of--....-, I received the book as a
preteAt, from a near J'elative of the person, who h~
aeq the spirit. It ia now lying near me on the desk,
but I dare not part with it, lest the name of ~e family
bo made public, for this would cause my worthy friend,
the ~;~i-Jl~vant ltudent, mu.ch ~z;espondenee, expense,
perhaps other~ble results,ridicule,apd contempt,
w which I wOllld not even remotely give occasion. But
il I now make &Jl extnact from it, in defence of the truth,
eo that I give DD uames, ~ relate the matter in such
a manner as not to compromise the worthy family, I
hope that it will not be taken amiss. The numerous
peraons who know it already, will soon perceive to what
it refers. The title ofthia remarkable book is as follows.
" A True Warrative of a Spirit, which frequently
appeared to -of--, at s~d times, from the 1st
of January to the 30th of April, 1755; circumstan-
tially deacribed by his father in the month of May,
1755, and privately published in the month of April,
1759."
On the reverse of the title-page, stands the follow-
ing motto: " This shall be writun for the succeeding
228
generation, and the people that shall be created, shall
praise the Lord." (Psalm cii. 19.)
Then follow the contents of the book itself, above
which stand the words, J:li :liOliJSE .JESt; IIAL'\'ATORII,
(in the name of 1esus the SaTiour.) The father's narra-
ti\"e then commences.
In the beginning of the year 1't55, his son dreamed
every night, that a little man, dreAed in a blue coat and
brown waistcoat, with a whip hanging at his girdle, after
previously knocking at his room door, entered, wished
him a ·good morning, and said, " I have something to
trll thee: go down to the --berg, and under a tree
ncar the -- mrodow, thou ";lt find upon and ncar a
!!tone, thirteen kreutzer, which take and secure them;
then dig a little, and thou wilt find much money." He
then constantly saw in his dream, the place, and the tree
where the money was to be found, and the money itself,
aR it appeared in part above the gronn<l.
The worthy youth awoke e'·ery time in great terror,
and related his dream. Both father and son regarded
.it as natural, and yet \'cry remarkable, and mentioned
it to some intimate friends.
Some nights after this, the spirit again appeared to
0)( A.PPA.RlriONS1 &c. 229
the son in a dream, and repeated the above expressions,
at the same time reproaching him for having divulged..
the affair, and shewed him the figures of two men, whom
he knew, who the spirit asserted, had already gone to
the place to seek the money, ·but that they would not
obtain it.
From this time, the son saw the spirit likewise
when awake, ·and hence it was concluded, that it was
not a mere dream, but a real apparition. This terrified
the good people much, particularly as the spirit came
every night, and the son awoke at each knocking.
This occurred two or three times every night, and the
entreaty to fetch the money was repeated every time.
But the longer and more frequently this demand was
made, the more the youth was alarmed, and declared
that he would not go to the place and fetch the
money, on any account. The spirit, in order to divest
him of all suspicion, and to encourage him, made use of
the first words of the 23rd. verse, of the eleventh chap-
ter, of the first epistle to the Corinthians, "I have re-
ceived of the Lord, that which I have declared unto
you," and then recommended him, when he went down
to fetch the mon~ to sing the hymn which begins thus :
" Who Jesus loves, and trusts in God
His blessing shall enjoy, &c."
280·
The son never being able, in consequence or the
~t trepidation he felt, to apeak a word with the spirit,
both Cather :md son determined to quelltion him, in wri-
ting, upon several points. On the 14th of January the
son wrote down theae quelltions, and laid them upon the
table in his bedroom. As soon aa the spirit came the
following night, he immediately observed them, and an-
swered them clearly and distinctly. Here follow the
questions and answen, word for word.
JESUS.
Listen, 0 Spirit! I ulr. thee in the name of Jesus.
1.-Who art thou7
Ana.-I am of this place, and have buried the mo-
ney, with five others; these five are now at rest, but I
nm not. I died in - .
II.-Why art thon eo disturbed, and why dost
thou disturb me also?
Ana.-Why am I 10 diaturbedP I have already
said, that it is the money we buried, which disturbs me,
nor can I rest, until thou fetch it. I disturb thee, it itt
-:":·
O:R Al'rA:aJTIOXI, &c. . 231
lnl8: but thou canst immecliate1y help thyself, by goiJlg
llld fetcbiDg the money.
111.-lf thou art a good spirit, and atandeat in
need of assistance, I would gladly help thee with all
my heart, were it in my weak ability and power to do
so; but as I cannot, I ask thee in the name of Jesus,
if I cannot let another person do tha~ which thou de-
airest of me?
Ans.-Assuredly I am a good spirit, and in answer
to thy queation, no one can deliver me but thou. I have
already waited Cor thee one hundred and twenty years,
and ifthou wilt not help me, I must suffer and be trou-
bled another hundred and twenty years. 1 beseech
thee, help me! Thou mayest take people witi1 thee
when thou goest down, but they muet not go With thee
so Car u to see the place, nntil thou haat found the mo·
ney; they may then help thee to eany it home. Thou
canst not carry it alone, abd they may, in the mean time,
pray for thee. Be not however, afraid, whatever dread-
ful and horrible things may appear to thee there. I will
myself accompany thee, and assist thee in every thing.
Notwithatanding all this, the son found it utterly
impossible tO go alone to the fearful spot; and on the
whole, both the parents and the son hesitated much in
232 ON APPA'RITJONS, &c.
the matter, for they were afraid of doing sometlling
wrong. They were, therefore, unanimous in again wri·
ting down some questions, in order to lay them be(oft'
the spirit the following night. This was doue as fol·
lows:-
JESUS.
Listen, 0 Spirit! I ask thee further, in the name
of Jesus.
I.-Whether I cannot go in comp&Dy, with
some others, to the place thou hast pointed out, where
the money lays, without hearing or seeing something
dreadful?
Ans.-Thou mayest do so; thou wilt neither hear
nor 11ee any thing; but what ·will that avail thee or me t
Rather go down alone with me, and then I am free.
~I.-Why cannot I help thee, when some one is
with me? I will take with me none but pious people,
whom thou mayest select for me.
Ans.-Thou must go thither alone, for thou alone
art nominated to deliver me. Others cannot help either
thee or me.
~·
ON Al'PARITIONB, &c. 233
·III.-Shall I not advise with some pious per-
IOD or minister in this affair, because I can scarcely
yet believe that thou art a good spirit. Our Saviour
· has redeemed all men; art thou then excluded? And
how should I be able to redeem thee! Jesus has suf-
fered for all.
Ans.-No, thou hast no need to do so, for they
will all seek to set thee against it. Doubt not that I am
a good spirit. 'Tis true the Saviour has redeemed me
also; but 'tis thou must deliver me .from this place; to
this thou art appoiuted. Do not let me suffer another
hundred andtwenty years!
IV.-If it must be so, have I not still some time
and space for it?
Ans.-Thou hast still some time for it, but till then,
thou and I will have no rest. I beg of thee to fetch the
money.
On this the spirit observed, that he had still one
hundred and twenty days allowed, within which time
the money must be fetched.
Notwithstanding all this, the father and son were
still in doubt, whether the spirit was a good or an evil
284 ON APPAJI.JTJONI, &e.
being; and as they sat together on Saturday evening,
the 18th of January, at ten o'clock, and spoke about the
spirit; the father considered whether evil spirits could
name the name of Jesus, because the spirit named him;
and now remembered, that the spirits whom Christ cast
out, o~n called upon him by this name ; when he ob-
served that his son turned pale, was terrified, and said,
" Father, pray!" Tbe father compliedwith this request,
calling often upon the name of 1esus, and hoped by this
means to banish the spirit; but the latter looked him in
the face, and said, "I like also to hear the name of Je-
sus, but because you are at present 10 much afraid, I
will go away again," on which he departed.
The following Sunday morning, the father's brother
came to visit these distressed people, in their secret and
heavy affliction. Whilst they were sitting together, all
at once the eon·was unable-to speak, and laid his head
upon the table; from which they perceived, that the spi•
rit was again present; they therefore began to sing, " Be-
gone, ye imps of hell ! ye here have nought to do." The
spirit aang these words with them, witb. a loud voice,
and then vanished.
On Monday, the 20th of January, the spirit again
appeared at eight o'clock in the morning, in the sitting-
room, and as towards ten, the father's brother was about
ON A.PPAUTZONI, &c. 235
~ lo go,and father and BOD were accompanying him to the
door, the spirit came up the stairs; the son again grew
lint, and was obliged to be·taken back into the room;
the spirit however said, "Thou canst now accompan:,·
thy uncle, and fetch the money at the same time." That
day the apirit was extremely urgent. On Tuesday, the
21stofJanuary, ateight o'clock in the rooming, he came
.into the school room ; "nd the poor ghost-seer escaped
into an adjoining apartment ; the spirit followed him,
Wl'11Dg his hands, and prayed three times the following
words ; " Lord God, thou art merciful, and thy goodness
enduretb for ever. Ah, why dost thou let me suffer so
long I" He then departed.
At ten o'clock he returned, but not in his former
dress, but as a figure entirely white, and said to the son,
" I haft now besought thy assistance for twenty days
together, do resol'Ve and help me I I will nowleave thee
for twenty days, ifthou wilt go down in the mean time,
and fetch the money, thou mayest do so ; it would be a
great relief to me if I could always stay with thee, but
now I must go, and have not a moment more time. In
twenty days, that is on 'the tenth of February, I will
again be with thee at this hour/'
The spirit kept his word, he again appeared in a
white form, gently repeated his request, accompanied the
W)ll ~~ 3e TelL ~ 'il:lt: :Je iiai ::101: ~ iR
o;;te ~ oi c:m~ m4 'IP3& i::ai ::iw: 3e !Iligh1
alpin. 3e -r..a:mu...
~~ 2:1..1}-cioeic.:0. :.e ~ •If Tnesia.;- Qe- t "Eta
,( ietmaaq. ~ ~lrit: =une ~!DID :Je ~
m.t 3t"lu¢1: w"..t:L iim. motiurr :il;:;e ~ .O..w: clbt si:a
f){ a dlilrl l)i '~ -r i~ ~ aid. ·li a. ::lliia.u: ~
tJ!:Uch he led. by tile iuuu:. Ther;a.;,.. ~said IIIlthiDg..
hct -~ die 'Ie £emu. r ~ w~ pnile ~ 0
God~ !M). ~y ~ &ea-:ifgT:-:b tiw: the :!QQ, ~
t& all ~t to ~ beiiev:ug that 1h wilcle- compe-
~y m11.1t have ~ d:e ~- ~the ~
Jwi alway~ ~--e<i the spirit. th:u ~ W1Jcld lll!"'rer per-
Mil hia .an to k;ela the ~ alone. The spirit now
bOOrmed them. that he lwl obtamed peJTI'IisUon ror the
lather to aemmpeay tJ.e 1011, only he mus& Rmaiu two
~ dilllamfrom tile plaft, and thismust be clone, with-
r111t fail. tbe lollmring Wednesday, the 12thofFebruary,
at J2 1>'clock at noon ; that the little spirit would like-
"i..e be preeent, and that they ought not to be at all
llffllid.
ThiN intdligC'Jlcc alarmed thefamily still more. The
r~&thn pmycd inccuantly to God for deliverance, preser-
ndon, und Bllllilltancc, through this trial, and experienced _
lnwnrd c:on•ulationl, and gracious assurances in his de-
ON APPARITIONS, &c. 2~7
>: votions. The resolution remained finn not to grant the ·
spirit's request.
Tlie dreadful Wednesday, and the appointed hour
arrived. The father was sitting below at table with
a friend, when he was called up to his son, whom
he found deadly faint. All fell on their knees and
prayei, for they believed he would die ; but he recover-
ed again and told them, that the spirit bad come to him
ingreat wrath, because they would not fetch the money,
had pressed him on the heart, and said. "Now I will
make an end of thee!" he then said, soon after, that the
little spirit was there, and stroked him, upon which he
perfectly recovered. The little spirit then sung, in the
presence ·of the other, the hymn, "God, the father,
dwell with us! &c." Now as the son was much dis-
tressed, and could not bear to stay in the house for
trepidation, a walk was undertaken to the adjoining
village, in the company of several friends; but the spi-
rit appeared here also, two several times, once on the
way, and the second time at the parsonage, wher-e he
stood in the porch as they came up.
The spirit 'becoming more and more urgent and
menacing, both father and son determined, (the latter
being still unable to speak with the spirit,) to write down
some additional question,&, and to lay them before this
238 ON AI'PA&lTlOMI~ &c.
terrific being. The questions and answers follow here
verbatim.
In yesterday's gospel, we are told bow our Lord
confuted the texnpter by the Word of God: followiag
his example, I say unto thee,and aak thee in writing.
beC&Uie I am neve~" able to speak to thee verbally.
Ana.-I am no tempter; DAt'ferthelen !IUD p.d
to hear the Word of God ; and it ia thine own fault daat
thou art unable to apeak to me.
I.-It is written, "Try tbe spirit.'!, whether
they be of God." That thou art a good spirit, I at
length allow; but thy troubled state proves that thou
art not a happy spirit, besides which, I cannot and
dare not,believe, that what thou deairest ia from God.
Ans.-I am well aware that thy parents doubt. my
being a good apirit: but thou aeeat that I honour and
lo\·e the Word of God, .and have the hope of salvation.
Nor is my torment any infernal &onneu.t. but a p11rijica·
tion stnt me from God, herault at my derecut, I teal toll
Mud atttJCited to ricA~~~, from which thou must deliver
me.
11.-It is wriUmJ, " My aheep hear my voioe,
239
and they follow me; but the voice of a stranger
will they not hear nor. foll~w ;" in accordance with
this, I must follow the voice of mf Saviour, and. am
directed not to listen to any spirit; for thou art a
atzaDger to me, and one whom I know not, nor dare
I follow.
It
Ana.-Thou. must by all means fullow thy Saviour
ad mine~, and obey his Yo!oe; but God has also other
way• besides his word, of revealing those things, which
are not matters of faith, as is very often the case iu
dreams: Thou art no stranger to me, but of my kin-
dred in the seventh degree. My native lan.d i11 Sniony.
JII.-It is written, " Children, be obedient to
your parents in the Lord." Now if thou seek to
rend~ me disobedient, thou art not on God's side.
Thou knowest very well, that my parents will not
permit me to consent to thy wishes ; why art thou
con1tantJy ur~g me to do thy will, contrary to their
will ? Arrange it with them. _
A.ns.-CeRainly thou must obey thy parents in all
things that are not oontrary to God; nor will I incite
thee to disobey them; but because they rqjeot myrequest,
thou mighteet .in this cue, find means of fetching the
money, without their knowledp,lthichwhen once done,
240 ON Al'l>ABITIONS1 &c.
nll will be right. I am not referred to them, but to thee,
and therefore nlso I have peen obliged to wait for thee,
till thou wast twenty years of age.
IV.-It is written, "He that rushes into dan-
ger~ shall perish therein, and the end of the fool-
hardy is evil." \\by should I have any thing to do
willi spirits and devils, or hazard both body and soul ?
And who can assure me, that if I fetch away the
money, nothing dangerous ~hall occur to me, either
in body, soul, or mind; seeing that the wicked one
is with the money, and guards it, and as thou hast
thyself said, will cause frightful things~to be seen ?
Ans.-This saying is certainly true ; but observe,
" He that rashly and daringly rushes into danger, shall
perish in it;" but this is not the case with thee. 'Tis
true, that the devil and his angels will be busy on tht•
occasion; but it is equally certain, that they cannot in-
jure thee till thou hast got the money, and therefore thou
h•t no need to fear.
V.-It is written, " No man can redeem his
brother." How then should I be able to do so,
and deliver thee? In Jesus there is everlasting re-
demption ; he can help thee without reference to this
money, and bring thee to rest.
ON APPARITIONS, &c. 241
Ans.-Most assuredly is this·saying true; and it
would be wrong to say that thou couldst redeem me.
The Saviour redeems thee, and me, l,lld all men ; but
yet in the affair of this money, thou must act as a re-
deemer by superior permission, and terminate my tor-
ment, which otherwise will not end, although thou dost
not comprehend it. •
VI.-It is written, " Our Lord Jesus threatened
not when he suffered, buf;11.Committed himself to him
that judgeth righteously." Wherefore then, in oppo-
sition to this, dost thou plague me for not complying
with thy wishes?
Ans.-This is certainly true, and it is unwillingly
that I trouble thee, but my distress and necessity com-
pel me to it; thy obatinacy is to blame.
The spirit, in answering the second question, having
mentioned that the so~ was no stranger to him, but re-
lated to him in the seventh Ldegree, by lineal descent,
the father looked over his genealogical table, and found
that a certain Lawrence --, a miller of-, on the
borders of Saxony, was his son's progenitor in these-
venth degree ; but as this Lawrence was married in the
year 1566, whilst the spirit asserted that he bad been
one hundred and twenty years iJ1, that state, and conse-
&
'ON ·APPA.RITIO::U, &c.
qucntly, on subtracting l20.from .1755, mustha\·e died
in the ·year\635; the father found the matter doubt-
ful, because the said Lawrence must, in·tbat case, ha\·e
Ih·ed in the marriage state·from 1566 to 1635, CODR·
·quently sixty-nine yP.ars, whic:h appeared to ·him incu-
nible; however, the spirit .appeared again the same day.
the 18th of February, at three o'clock in the afternoon.
and said, "You have been searching, on my account.
in the family genealogy: lam not, however, --, but
his own brother, and a··~ of Gregory·--, ministl·r
of--; my father died early, and when my brotht·r
was married, I was four years old, and wcnt to school
with my brother's sons. During the dieturbances in
Bohemia, I came hither to --, where I married a
widllw. I was not a furmer but a tradesman.
The son becoming seriously indisposed in COll:il'·
qnencc of all this agitation, and these trying words, cn-
dea\'ourcd to make a change, and therefore went to - ·.
On passing thc.place where the money was said to be
deposited, he saw a black man and a dog upon it ; aud
although there was snow every where else, yet this p)acl·
was green. 'The spirit again presented himself,. and ha-
rassed him with Iris temptations. On retUllling, he found
every thing just as before, and when the·spirit left: him.
be heard behind him a piteous and lamentable cry.
ON APPARITIONS, &c.
' ' • • ~ '. 'o ! I : ~ .' '• '
24~
~~.e..daiJyfll!:d,n!~~tly appearing of the sp\rit !!till
OO,!lt~~u,e,~, .a~d ~s ~e~~ests to ~etch ·the money became
more 1p1dmore urgent; but this being flatly refuse~ him,
)~~·w~~ ~t~~ed; ~~d de~ired to speak.'witl~ th~ father ;
.but thls.th.e latte~.s~~pled t~ d~,r~nd ~efused hi~ request.
'The ·~pi~ii, ho~e;er: fixed a.d~y for'the i~t~rview, name-
• . . •' ,. . • 1 , '
ly twenty days later, on. Saturday, the 1st of .March, at
• ' ' • 'I • I I • • •
eight in the evening,.or on Sunday the. 2d, bet:ween eig\lt
and nine i~ the .morning, asserting th:i nothhtg ·sho~d
happen to the father, but that .he must be earr,test in
pray~~r,at :Pirtinl?...The fath~r however utteily rejected
th.e int<cryie:w. .At every visit, the spirit .shewed great
dev~ti~n,: during singi;g, pr~ye~, ·~r,td. ~cadlng. · .
. ~ .. . ' . .
The father was ol)ce reading the 8th chapter of the
Epistle to the Ro~~s, and on' the spirit appeari~g, the
father s~d, " if ih~u wilt, thou ~a.yestrelllain here a~a
listen.'; .The .spjrit answered, that he was giad to'be toid
to stay. He· the~ p)accd hi~seif i~~ediately b~hiU:d
:.tb~ t~ble ~ear the s~n. and wh~n. in. the ~our~e of read-
;~~g,: 91C fa~her C~me to the WOrds, " We..!lTe Sa~ed by
.•~ope, ,&c.'' he c~aRped his hands together .for joy, and
. said,. " 0 yes, yes, saved by hope!"
• . 1 . ' . • •
~t is.llfso ,w(>rthy ofremark, that the !!pirit en1itted
fi,re frpJl! e~ery fi~ger, whe~ he 'bec~me ;mgry. on account
. f 1 , · • , •. • • ·: , , . . , r . • . •• •
of the son's obstinacy. He often said, that if any one
244 ON AI'PARITIONS, &c.
wished to ·See him, he might, but the individual would
afterwards repent of it. On the father's once saying,
that it was impollible he could be a good spirit, becat~~t
he harrassed his son in ·such a manner, he said in great
anger, " Soon, soon, soon, shall you experience that
I am a good and not an evil spirit, but to your detri-
ment." The father commended himself and his house-
l(pld to God, and nothing prejudicial ensued.
From the 2d to the 22d of March, the spirit ronti-
nued to appear, but during that period he said nothing,
nor did he give any answer to questions that were put
to him, either verbally orin writing, yethe scarcely ever
lPft the son. During the succeeding twenty days, he did
not come at all, except on the 2d of April, when the fol-
lowing circumstance occurred. The father and son went
to the field belonging to the school, where the money
was ; as the latter was now no more afraid, becauae the
spirit stayed away, they went both to the place, but nei-
ther saw nor heard any thing. As soon as they had left
the place, the spirit appeared, be was much irritated, and
asked why he was so simple as to go down then, when
his father was with him, and so many people in the
field 1 he only increased his torment by it; he had often
told him, that he must go thither alone, and he must
now stay there till the father was gone, and every one
waa at home.
ON' 4PPAB.ITION'8, &c. 245
On this the eon grew very faint. He also saw the
black man and the dog again. Much affrighted, he ex-
claimed, " 0 father, we must now go home!" his terror
lrU 10 great, that even the father began to be afraid.
With much trouble, they at length reached their h~bita­
tion.
The last twenty days of the hundred and twent)11J
still remained, and of these tl}e good people were much
afraid; for they were apprehensive that the spirit would
now exert himself to the utmost, to attain his object.
Fear urged them to persevering and earnest prayer, and
this also tranquillized them, particularly as the father re-
ceived singular consolation in his dreams.
On the lOth of April, at eight in the evening, the
spirit again appeared, but no longer in white, but in his
former costume. His address to the son was, " Thy
obetinacy is the ~use, why I am obliged again to appear
thna." He then also gave them to understand, that the
soD could no longer fetch the money as formerly, at any
time, but only every twentieth hour. He then movingly
begged for help, as only a short time longer was allowed
him.
After this, the apirit appeared still three several
times, but only every p-entieth hour, say, on the llt_h
t'lr':~•t, c.-: •=- ~;, F~=-2:=.~ ·:: :::~ 1::::. :.: ~:t-"-! 0)·~:--ck.
1:. '::...., t·r.:. ;.;;;-:-.:.:::.=-= :::. :::.= 11~ '=~A;::--:.. ::.~ ~a w
th~ '-"...:.~ ~~! 1:: :.Z.~ '!.::-::..:::~~J ~:-...:= ~:.-= s.c·:ne:hl!lg
jr,r !:.!::-J tr, c~\TC:, :,-=: !l:.w l-e C:.:--: ::.-:•t rrp1y to any
m<,r<: f.:!W::t;ti',::..;. W;~ :::.=s f:XL~_;..t :~. !:.e 9-)K€ Tery
litLt-, hut <,r.:;.- ::J',a::;~ ;-:::!-~y, ::..:-.c :~ew- ~ =:2-:jds up
,
and dr,wn, w1icb ~::. t::::.Z:t,-G f=r, =d t!::s ;;.:>rrcwf~
v..t:ne wa;; repeatc.-<.1 S"l -:.:te:c, :~at t:!le son ~e3I'd the
Jlitc.-vus m<,ani.cg r.igbt and Gr.y. ~e ot'b::~!e family
WC.'I'f: much alannt;d <Jn t!-;e OCCaSi{,n, S') t!lat ilie father at
length determined to prepare somecl-.ing in writing, and
lay it beft.re the spirit. Therefore, on the 12th of' .-\pn1,
at dght in the evening;wlien the spirit stood at the room
dt1or, and gradually entered the room, the father read to
him what follows.
In the name of Jesu's, I assure thee, poor. sjlirit!
i,__:.That thy m~umful condition mlicb affect~
me and my family, and it grieves iis~ tliilt we a:re
not able to help thee.
H.--That it is hy no means obstinacy on the
part ot' my son, that he has hitherto not complied
with thy request, seeing that his wcakiiess aiid ina:-
bility must• be wcllli:nown to thee, because' altliough
OX AP.PARITIOHS,. &c•. ; 247
he may become accustomed to the sight of: thee,. yet
he has never been able to speak to thee ;. but every
time thou hast appeared, he has either sat or laid. as
if he were in a fit.
Ill.-'thou art well aware, that not.long since,
we wentl ta. the place in the valley, and thou knowcs.t
how temtied, and horror-struck, and utterly devoid of
strength he then became, and though he only saw the
demons at a distance, yet he was. s? agitated at. th.e
sight, that he w.as obliged to retire to the hill in the.
wood: how then. sheuld he be able to. go llo.wn·amongst
the devils themselves'l"
IV.-Thou hast said. yesterday, that if he. would
not help thee, he would have neither happiness nor
salvation all his" lji, loag. I should be gladr to know
if thou hast this from God or from Satan.'t
V.-Alas ! we are unwilling to let. taee.depart
without help; yet what ahall we clo, ~ how begin,
to help thee? If thou. canst, give u.s an aaawer.
and inform us what we wish to know~
I commend thee to the mercy of God, the re-
demption ol the Lord Je&\la, and th~ comfort of tho
Holy Spirit. Amesa I
248 OM Al'PA'BITIOXS1 &c.
My little book now grows so remarkable, that I
...muat insert the moat important pauagea in the father'•
own worda. He saya :-
" During, and after the reading of the above, the
spirit said to my son, ' I will find and point thee out a
hymn; pray and &ing it diligently.' On which. he
took down from the shelf my son's pocket Bible, to
which a small hymn book is attached, drew it'Out of the
case, and found him the hymn which begins, • Have
mercy, gracious God, &c.' and pointed out to him, with
his finger, the third yerae, ' From guilt of blood deliver
me, &c.' then folded ~own the page, and laid the Biblt-
in its place again, on which he went away, saying; 'Now
I ahall be absent for some time.'
" My aon immediately informed us what the spirit
had done with the Bible, and supposed that we had also
seen the occurrence. He requested that the Bible might
be directly handed down, because when the spirit drew
it from its case, a smoke appeared from it; and on
taking it down, we found to our astonishment, that on
both sides of the binding, towards the top, where the
spirit had laid hold of it and dra't\n it out of the case,
tbt~ leather was shrivelled up and bum&, and on open-
ing the book, we immediately saw the hymn, 'Have
mercy, gracious God, &c.' folded down. On the.left
~•. ON APPARITIONS, &c. 249
aide, where he had held the Bible with the left hand,
with one finger and the thumb, the leather was also
shrivelled and burnt on the back, where the finger had
been placed; whilst in the inside, where it had been
held by the thumb, two leaves were singed and burned
black completely through, and the five leaves next them
partially so; and where he had pointed with his finger
to the verse, ' From guilt of blood deliver me &c.' the
finger-mark was likewise black and singed ; from which
btlrned places it is evident, that the tinfP!rs are not
fleshy, but formed like those of a skeleton: ~ which.
this awful memorial affords ocular demonstration, in
the little hymn-book attached to this Bible, which was
printed in 12mo. at Wittenberg, anno 1696, and bound
in calf with gilt edges. On this account also, the said
Bible shall be preserved as a continual remembrance and
a wonder."
Such has also been the case; the family is still in
posseasion of this moat remarkable Bible, and many
credible persons have seen it, and may still see it.
This incident caused the whole household the
greatest amazement, consternation, and astonishment ;
and aa they knew. not what might further take place, it
waa reaoh·ed to consult with a pious minister in the
neighbourhood. The father therefore went to him, ~n
2SO ON APPARITIONS, &c.
Monday the 14th of April, and related to him the whole
affair under condition ofthe greatest secrecy. The wor-·
thy mali was equally surprized and astonished, arid
confessed the matter was of too much importance fur
him'to ad\·iire in, but referred him to the late Dr. Spener's
Theological Reflections, in which he also treats of appa·
ritions of spirit's. He promised likewise to consider
upon it himself, and' then to communicate his sentiments
to him. 'J!he point to be decided, oonsisted principally
in this : whether the request of the spirit, with regard to
singing and. praying the hymn so dreadfully marked,
'Have rriel'cy, gracious God, &c/ could with a good con-·
science be c()inplied with·. ·
fn Spener's lnt ""Theological Reflections," Vol. I.
there is a whol'e' section on apparitions, and also the fol-
lowing passage, which is decisive with respect to the
present case.
n Wh'erefote I coiisMei', thlrt in this ca-Se, the surest
way is, tlraf t!J\til, frorri one strttree or other, satisfactOTy
convictions ensue, not to be too hasty in forming a judg-
nYeilt, out ~riso that tHe person ccttrduct Irlmse:lf through-
out in t'fi~· whOle dait, so· that otr the cme hand, if God
irite'lld any thiflg by' it, he may not te found resisting
him, iior entirely disregard any thing to which the spirit
ttW.y admonish hiin, not neglect on this account, what is
25l
otherwise known to be the"divine will. on· the other
hand, if it were the work of Satan, desirous ofplaying
his triCks urider such a disg;ilie; he must not give way to
his will in the least, but cleave fii:nily to the Word of
God alone, and unceasingly call upon God, to assure
liim ofhis will, that he may not' be deceived, &c."
In conformity with the counsel of tliis enlightened
theologian, the hymn was not only sung by the family,
moniing and eveniD.g without scruple, but the son also
prayed and sung·it frequently, as the spirit requested.
A few days after, the wntteri opmion; promised by
the pious minister above-mentioned, was also received;
consis-
ted suinDiarl:iy in t'iie eiglit folloWing points.
I.-It is a sacred truth~ tlllif there are ~bd and
evil angels, and that both the one and the other can
mamlest t'hemselves.
H.-Wicked angels caiinoi appear WI"th'out di-
vine permission, and the good Wilt n·ot, witliotit the
permiseion and will of God.
III.-Goodangels, on appearing, can do nothing
coiiti:tiy to. Goit, and wicked arigelli nothing for God,
liis glory, and the iea1 welfare of man.
252 ON APPA&ITIONS1 &c. ·.
IV.-The ministry of good angels, with respect
to man, must not refer to any thing, either directly or
indirectly, which is contrary to divine revelation in
the Holy Scriptures.
V.-A good spirit or angel, for the same reason,
cannot desire of, or do to us, any thing which is con-
trary to charity.
VI.-Therefore, when a spiri~ though appearing
in the form of an angel of light, desires any thing
contrary to the lo\·e of our neighbour, it cannot be
regarded as a good angel or spirit.
VII.-It is contrary to charity, to desire any
thing of a man and a christian, which he cannot do
with a good conscience.
VIII.-Now as the spirit that appears, does and
desires this, and even uses threats, and afflicts the
body, he must by no means be listened to, but rejected
as a tempter to evil.
Therefore I conclude, that
Those, to whom, in the sacred and salutary coUR-
aeh ofUod, such appatitiona a.uil \em\)'la\l.~m.\~~~ ""&.~-
ON APPARITIONS, &c. 253
diate or immediate reference and concern, should let
tllem act aa a continual incitement to all fidelity and
renewed zeal in religion, and to watching and conflict,
according to Ephesians v. 10, for their own good, and at
the same time for the praise of God, and the glorifica-
tion of Jesus Christ in themselves and others, by a right
improvementof such an event, according to the measure
of christian wisdom and prudence. May God overrule
· the present visitation to this blessed end, for Christ's
sake! Yea, he will do it, for he is faithful. 1 Cor.
x. 13.
Thi§ opinion, as well as the one above of Spener's,
had the effect of causing both father and son to resolve,
still more firmly, to act with great circumspection.
They therefore continued in prayer and thanksgiving,
for the gracious protection they had hitherto enjoyed, and
trusted steadfastly in the Lord, that he would also fur-
ther protect them•
•
The succeeding pages ofthe book are so important,
that I deem it necessary to insert them here verbatim.
" But as nothing was seen or heard of the spirit,
from the 12th of April above-mentioned, during the re-
mainder of the month, we returned thanks for this sea-
son of tranquillity, and imagined the t\~int 'fl~\.\.ld, ~'t-
25;1
haps, stay away altogether; however the last day and
hour of the hun~red and twenty days allotted to him,
~ad not yet arrin~d, for ~hich time we waited, though
constantly betwe~n hope a,nd fear.
"That day, which was the 30th of April, and th~
'\Yedn('!sday before St. Philip and .St. James, at length
arrived; and when it was. about eight'o'clock in. the
evening, the spirit s1uldcu\y and unc~pcctcdly entered
the roo~, but not in his first or second form, but PI one
~uch whiter and brighter. He evidenced great plea-
sure alld satisf.'letion, thanked my son for having hitherto
sung and prayed the appuintcd hymn (for so he temted
it,) and informed him, that in cousequcnc<.> of this, he
h~ been rcu.lly redeemed and entirely dclivcn•d frum
the place and the money, ruthough he had llOt yet CO!ll·
pletdy at~uincd w1to rest, ,,·hich he howcn;r still hope~!
lor: assuring him at the same tinJC, that he, my son,
must and ought to have the money, which was deposited
at the place he mentioned, and that he would c«;rtainly
obtain it, in a wonderful and ,incomprehensible manner;
hut wlttn this would ~akc .place, he was .ignorant; and
it might perhaps be a long time first.
" On tliis., .the. spirit desired t~t my. llOll. should
knecl.dQwn ~ith . l!im ,and llray. He did .s~,_ and the
:<~pirit ;::til r~~i:t:>tl \.•.1 my.-;on a ~·rr·tty lrm3 prny~·.r, con-
ON .ll'PARITIONS, ~c. ·255
.aisting ~hiefly of scripture phrases, which he prayed
alopd, after, ~d therefore with the .spirit; and it is par-
~cularly remnrkaWe; that previously,whenever the ,spirit
.eppeared, althougl;J. my son distinctly h~nrd, undc1·stood,
.and "retained C\'~ry thing the spirit said, yet he :was
never able to: speak with him, but this time l,le .coptin-
ued standing,,nnd,was able to speak and pray aloud with
him, without becoming faint. It is only to be lamented,
that this time, in consequence of our great consternation,
tae prayer ·itself, in all its length, was not, properly
·ap~hended·and retained, but its coDtents,were.suro-
marily as·follo:ws :-
'" Holy, .gracious, .and..mercifuL God! mighty in
counael, and wonderful in working! All things ~e pos..
.aible.:with: thee; thy power is great, and thy judgments
Jre :,unsearehable; unto :thee bclongeth prailic, and
honor, .and thanksgiving, and .glory. .Thou humblellt
..and.tbo.u QXaltest ; thou succourest in time of.need, thou
.,dt:liverest-from deatruction,· and redeemest: from -death ;
, thQ~,eaatest dow.n into:tha~aws·.of hell, and-.bringest us
;Qp ,llgain ; ::thou ..redeemeat ·from blood~guiltine$s, . and
,f~Ugit'est iniquity, tranagres&ion, and. sin, thou. mani-
festest nnto me thy grace and thy ·mercy,, thoUJ settest. a
golden crown upon my head; thou placest me nt thy
..table,.where the anow~.white.holy,angals, ait, nd causest
me:to;.sce .-thy goQtlness that endw-uth· .fm; c;vcr, ·throua;h
256 ON APPARITIONS, &c.
the merits and redemption of Jesus Christ. Holy,
Holy, Holy is the Lord God of Sabaoth ; and let all
the earth be filled with his glory ! Amen. The love and
mercy of God, the grace of Jesus Chlist, and the fellow-
ship and comfort of the Holy Spirit be with us now and
evermore ! Amen.'
" After finishing this prayer, the spirit said to my
son, 'Now reach me something, that I may give thee my
hand,' presenting at the same time, his flat hand. My
son mentioned this to me, on which I reached him my
pocket handkerchief to give him, but the spirit said, 'Not
that, but something from thee;' on which my son drew
his own handkerchieffrom his pocket, and laid it upon
the spirit's hand, which however we saw fall immedi-
ately to the ground, and lay there. After this, the spi-
rit cautioned my son against mentioning this affair to
any one who would not believe it, assuring ·at the same
time, that he would no lon~er have any more such aver-
sion to the place, and then expressed the following wish,
•May God preserve thee, and all my relatives from such
a life, that brings after it such like trouble and torment!'
His last words were, ' I now take my leave of thee, thou
wilt never see me more.'
" On this, the handkerchief, which was of linen,
and striped with blue and white, was taken up from
257
the floor and inspected. .And .here we ag~n saw with
astoniah~ent, that alm~~ in t!le ceD~e, wh~re; the spj.ri~
had taken hold of. it, the· five. ~ge,rs .f#.~ -hand .we,re
burnt in,,!IO that the .:firatand mid4le fingiJllt~~fl, ~ ~
burned entirely ~ug)l., but. the .thUJA~ .Wld the tw~
otherfingers were burnedbl&elt a~d singed,;, ~h~h.hand­
kerchief, tbua dreadfully marked, t.ogetllqr .with.IJ!.e Bi.-
ble, ahall be laid up•.wi~ thia:n.~aP,ve, for.~.ev~rlaat.,.
ing ~emorial t9 ~ty."
This handkerchief waa sent rq~d amongst fiiends·
and acquaintances in the C!istrict of-·.who 11aw and
examine~ it with.wonder and aatonisl!ment, and have
since related it tp me, and testified o{ the tru~h ~f this
affair. The father contin'¥!f.:~ ·
"And thus hath it pleased tqe Lord, in his mercy,
again to remove thia afilictiou.-whicl,l, ip. h~ holy will and
counsel, had impended over us during one hundred and
twenty days, and hath permitted us to see the end of it,
in a wonderful way and ~.,life•
.~ .. ·.
" But in order that the pious preacher above-men-
tioned, to whom I revealed this affair, and whom I con-
sulted regiiding it, as well as my present children a"!ld
brethren, may read this narrative in ita connexion, and
praise the Lord with us: in order also, thatmydescend-
s
258 OM Al'PARITIOMS, &e.
ants at some future period, may learn and know for their
spiritual benefit, what remarkable things have happened
to their forefathers, and who it was to whom a apirit ap-
peared, which had quitted the body one hundred and
twenty years before, I have transcribed this narrative by
the handofmy son, as the aft'air really happened, where-
by I have to state, why it is not drawn up by the indi-
vidual chiefly concerned, that is, by my son himeelf, is,
that I immediately noted down in my diary, every cir-
cumstance which occurred at each apparition, because
my son, during the whole aft'air, was generally ill and
sickly, and tender-sighted from seeing the spirit, and
therefore the narrative is ofmy own drawing up. How-
ever, all that is stated abo'lle, is known to my family, as
well as to my son and myself; but that my descendants
may be firmly assured of its credibility and truth, it is
attested and confirmed belowbymyselfand my said son,
as the principal person in the affair, with our own hands
and seals.
" Done at --, an·evangelical Lutheran town, in
the district of--, not far from --, and situated be-
tween-- and--, the 16th of May, 1755.
"(L. s.) - --
0!1( APPABITIONI, &c. 259
~
"Temporary Administrator to
· the Imperial Commiasion ofLi-
quidation in ---, Baronial·
Clerk of the Peace, and SChool-
master of this Place.
"I hereby testifY, that the above narrative of the
apparition is true with respect to each and every cir-
cumstance, as my father 'wrote it·down from my mouth,
and as transcribed by my own hand, and that what is
comprised in the foregoing twenty-six pages, is the truth
and nothing but the trUth, in defence ofwhich I am ready
to live and die. In testimony ofwhich, I herewith set
my hand and seal,
"The lath May, 1755,
"(L. s.) . ----.
"
~--.
In conclusion, there follew an addition ~ thi1 tale
of the spirit, which is likewise ealted by the father, and
equally solemnly atteated both· by ;father and s~n. It
is to the following efi;lct.
In the precedil'!g narr~tive,· mentiop is m~e of •
260
beautiful and ~t Jittle .pit, hariDg shewn itlelf'
three timea·in the ·cOIDpany of:lbe greater one. Thia
·little apirit•till-eontinuedto appearevery twentieth day,
but withOut saying anything. ·:
. f
On the 29th of August, 1'j55, at half-put twelve
at noon, it entered the. room· cloar,.went ._
1ip acl down
the room, and sang the fiftJ1 :vene of .the h7J11Do " K1
Jeaua I will ne'er fonake," which ia u .ronow.:-
Nor earth, nar heaven, my aoul deJi«ht,
Jesua, I long for, and hia light. ·
. 'Tia he hath made my peace with God,
And shed for me hia precious blood.
He shall my part in judgment take,
My Jesus I will ne'er forsake!
After this, he turned to my son, and said to him,
"Fear Iiot, thou knowest me already. I shall now leave
thee for one hundred and twenty days; be upon thy
guard!" and with that he ftlliahed• ..
The last words, "Be upon thy guard t•• again per-
plexed the good people. The •on ·eompoMd ·& prayer
with reference to this circumcumstance, which he de-
voutly offered up, morning and·evening, Onee he had
261
a. frightful dream, fn which an angel brought him a
great treasure, but which Satan took away again : then
death came also, and said, "I come at God's com-
mand, &c."
··At length theappointed hundred ~nd twentieth day
anived, this was the 2'Tth of Dece~ber, at th~ beginning
ofit, at twelve o'clock·atnight, the little l!pirit again ap-
pe~, and ung the'following words out of the hymn,
u Now Lord, Unfold the gates ofheaven."
' Enough have I striven
And suffered below ;
And now to my mansion
In heaven I go. ·
Moitt gladlyrejeeting and leaving behind,
: Whatever ita solace on earUl would find.
Aft:er.ainging this, he turned to my son, and said:
" See, i am comeagain to thee : rear not: for now
thine aftnction ii at an end j and if thou continue in the
fear of God, thou hast nothing but eomfort to hope for.
I shall not remain long with thee, but depart from thee,
for a time and times. But as I always remember thee,
ao·do. thou &so think of God and me."
262
He then l8lig the above words once· more, ad
v&Dished.•
This extremelyremarkable history, I have preferred
to many othex narratives of thiJ kind, becauae it ia be-
yond all doubt, perfectly true; and that it ill 10, may be
shown in a twofold manner: for first, ifit were eutinly
a fabrication, I cannot imagine a moro daring and
impious piece of knavery than thiJ; besides which, the
whole family,at thetime when the bookwuprinted.would
have contradicted the. lie. To thia mut be added, that
the whole narrative, or the manner ofits composition, is
decidedly the reverse of fiction. And Secondly, if it
were maintained that the young man had merely seen a
vision, and that they were only deluions of the imagi,-
nation; the singed Bible and the burned handkerchief
contradict such an assertion, for both these are really in
existence, and may be seen by any one. I therefore
most jutly conclude, that this apparition is a real and
undoubted fact; and ifit be so, what maywe learn from
it? To thia inq!Jiry I will endeavour to give a l&tiamc·
tory answer.
The first thing that strikes our obaervatiou iD the
• See 'No\2 ~.
O.H .APPAIUTIOHB, &c. 263
storyis, that the BOD ~one, andno one else, saw the spirit.
This proves my theoryof thedevelopementofthe faculty
ofpresentiment. The spirit, for secret reasons, was not
in a situation to show himself openly, on whi.:h subject
he explained himself, saying, that though he could show
himaelf to the father, and converse with him, yet the lat-
te,r would repent ofit; he therefore employed the young
man, in whom he found a tendency to develop the faculty
ofpresentiment: this developement, therefore, be gradu-
ally effected, by working upon his imagination, during
sleep, in which all the senses are at rest, presenting
before it his figure, and impressing it upon it so often,
until it adhered to it, and the spirit was then able by it
to make himselfvisible to him, act further upon his in-
ward senses, and converse with him. In a word, the
seer became to a certain degree, a somnap1bulist, and
stood in_
rapport with the spirit; the latter then commu-
nieated his thoughts, through the oracular organ: just
as we hear any one speak, when dreaming, which can-
not be heard by another person, though present at the
time : whilst th~ spirit, who had no longer any organi-
zation for the vW.Dle or material world, read every thing
that paned in the ~oul of the seer. Thus, what the fa-
ther said, the spirit saw or beard in the son's faculty of
perception, even as a magnetized person, when in a high
degree of clear-sightedneBB, distinctly :Perceives the
thoughts and reflections of the inilividual with wham. h.~
ON AI'PA..ITiolls, &e.
stands in' rapport; but:if·tile' latter desire to ft8d in tie
ioul of the magnetized penon, he must be plaeed in the
same situation1:and ·become·eomnamhllliat, m what il
the same thing; llia 1acolty·Of prelieiltiment m1lllt be u.
veloped. Froui the e~rimeam whieb h.Ve lNieB made
with magnetiami -tFe ·al'e tn·.a altUation to e%p]ain wutil
otherwise ilicomJ:n-ehenaible in: the aPparitions ofspirita.
But nthr as t0 the objeot -which the lpirit had in
View. How dreadful! he cleaves·'for.the •Paee of cme
hundred and twenty yean, to the inoney that C:an no
longer 'be of tmy use to him ! How trUly .Ia the aying
verified here, " Where yeur treasiue ls, .there your
heart is also;" and· the tliought that.this walth ought
again to belong tc) the rightful heir, torments him like n
fury; particularly, because being dead to the material
World, he ·lived in the spiritual world, and therefore
according to the common course of nature, was unable
to satisfy his desire, or reveal it to any living penon.
At length he found one of his deaeendanta, who poaaes-
Aed the physical disposition, so that he could work.upon
him,! and develop his fae1ilty of presentiment : this he
probably learned from some one lately dead, who knew
the young man.
But still, we must not believe that the whole aft'air
was right and proper, ot ac~:.otU\\\i. to t\\~ "frilt of G()(}.
Bf··•·•mem~&j,-& ,Ch&. apiiit;attaiisea·f.O l'8lt, .without
theremoftl of tat-.money.··. -lle -..nn.takein iD lielieve· ·
ing that he should find repose, after having handed over
.-1RODey~ t)al:~llt·iaitiriclul, .lae' piociured hla rest
-~ 1'atber·bf·tdtoiagto bia' n.deeuier, and by morti-
i)inglli!~8llt to·~ tllibfJI; and thisat length
toot ipl&oejo:B.-&b&..r.tlier IUld aon beil:ag finD in their
rMOlutiOM· nqt tGfetch tlle moJiey on any account•
• '' :·.. t :~.. • ;: ..
The·•tleteminiM.iell...ef• tlleae two.pious .personi is
'Y8ty teMatable, and·manJ,.W..:reading thie narrative,
.W have·eonlidered&ld beeiillltQ1\isbed,.why.they .did
not comply with the.Jpiiit's·wishes, for apparently they
related to nothing improper. But Providence .ruled
over them, and the terror of the son, united with hls
apeeehlet~~neu, waa .C!el!taiJJly :the ~rk (If a. superior
power'; lot ·by· tlllie, .they. were ohiefty: deterred .from
fulfilling the williofthe apmt:. for..'.upposing they had
done u: lle deliirtd.thinn, they·:would .inoat probably
~ found noehiRg·; .for. •hat ·tb$ ion: aaw upqn ·the
pliace,· waa a-mere ill\llion, wbiea:&be.spirit'himaelf.pro·
claoad there, ia aocordance.iwitb the previilling supenti-
tioua··ideu, whieh-·.he had ,taken: with him .fiom. his
eatthly; lite, into the other world, namely, that evil
spirits kep& watch over hidden treasure,. which ideas he
also imparted to the imaginatiOn of the aeer, so that the
266 Dlt APPARlTlO:MI, &c,
latter neceuarily believed, likewise, that he realiy eaw
evil spirits, in the shape of a ~egro and a hoUDd.
Authentic instances are known to me ofghoet-seen
having been led into aubtemmeoua vanlte, where they
saw immeJlle treuuree, IUI'I'OUDded by guardian .prite,
who from attachment to earthly thinge, had created tbeee
illusione, and regarded them u eomething aubetautial,
whilst, in reality, there was nothing at all there. Hence
it is evident, that departed souls have a creative faculty,
so that they can make their productioua v.iaible to them·
selves and othera. By reflecting further on this faculty
in good and evil spiritl, aetonisbing discoveriea may be
made.
Now snppoeing that the father and BOn had com-
plied with the apirit's request; that the BOn had gone
and dug up the illusion, and dragged it home, where he
would aesnredly have found nothing b11t raw and crude
earth; what would have become of the spirit? lie would
either have believed that the son W'la not worthy of the
treuure, and have atill continued to imagine himaelf in
poaseaaion of it aa before, and. have tormented himeelf
in the same manner, or be would have found that the
money waa loat, and that it would therefore never come
to the rightful heir, by which, his lllfi'erings would have
become atm greater and more permanent.
OW APPAJUTIO.S1 &c. 267
But I will alao suppose the case, that the money
had not been fetched away by those that helped to bury
it, but that it was in reality, still there; the spirit would
then certainly have become more tranquil, and perhaps
more luminous ; beca118e the radiance of spirits is in
proportion to their temper of mind ; but. yet he would
not by this, have advanced one step higher, for his
attachment to the money would have remained, and he
would then have always been anxious about its being
well and usefully applied. In short, it was necessary
that he sholJ].d entirely mortify his attachment to this
mammon.
But how could the spirit read the written interrog-
atories ; I answer, just as a somnambulist reads what
is laid upon the pi.t ofhis heart, (or aa the Lyonese lady,
when standing in rapport with other persons, who held
the written docllDlent in their hands,) and knows its
contents.
When the spirit was angry, or much grieved, and
when ~quently some particularpassion was predomi-
nant in him, sparka were emitted from his finger ends.
This remarkable fact proves my theory of the soul's
luminous body ; the spirit ia inseparably united with
thia etherial covering, which substan® acts upon us, at
one time, .as light, at another, as ~lectrioity, or as gal·
~68
':lmiam,· and..-: ~etiam. ~ lUI.l,, -.modified
by. eircumataa~QI. :: i~ta ~~..~:-o~c;ma a ia
ev.ident. tha$ ·tbe ·olfi?t$ye pMii9u .., ~tupirit'a
, bocly.electrie,.IID~rildlame-Jt.:. No1r ·if'"~'~· to
o\U'Ielna the .eril•pirite ia;)b.eir .Pger,- "'Pi • de.
pair, the ftre:.of·hell ia flo lODpr a Dlet9:~..,
lOJ)~J.' an Oriep~ me&aphor,· nttruUl.·aad.rtalitf.o
I; •' I ' : ' ' I •' :. , • ','' . li ' ': 1; : ·'• • :
, When a depar.Ud.ipuit ia ququil i.D.i~ IQi..t, ita
~ueh ia felt t1o be J,ike.lha so~ .vi:a.,~,.U; ~1
aa when the electric fluid:ie ~ Upota laby ,....
part of the body. The spirit's body ia therefo1:0 eDtilely
in the power of the mind, and it forma itaelf inwardly
awl outwardly.according .to'the itaegin!ltioa. ~d &he in-
ward propoMi.tiee. What horrible .qvjcaturea aJl(i mon-
~tten muat.therefure.:be ~prod.uce4· by tao,M, who. ue ao
entirely onder the dominicm of their evil punonel U
anger, lust, enry, aelfishneas, ancl.t;be like, defo,rm, in
the present state, even our :material bodies, how mueh
more that refined aubstance, which aaiUDlea every form
in a momenllr BDtlet ua now altorelpmlt!Pt to ounelvea
a aoul that ia nconciled with God, thoroughly aanctified
and bleiiCCl with the ezalt.ed peace ofGDcl; mnat itnot
after death attain to the highest ideal of.humau beaaty f
It muat aeem lingular .to many, that tbia spirit ap-
poreclao completely in bia former cuatomary dreta, 10
oa' APfAB.Il'IOlC'tj &c; i69
thlt •dichiot·ev~for8et· his! hohewiiip,= but bad it
ll1ulg..boat lim;·beeaUH be'bad pmbahly dealt' in horne
or dCMr.atde.' · I kMW at a sj;iiltha•ring a}Jpeared;·on
wtu,.a the. little: bra8a shG&-bucmlea.were per&otly oog-
D~Kable.~ .If.-..e thon)ughly oonaidar4mnm·bje0tf we:ihall
fiDil .aD. thY. ·quite.i!amial~ the· ipirit einm:eii the fo~
whieh-tts·imagin&Cikm iJj'11ea it, ancLtludatterdiguretr to
itlelt.tba'"'W'hlob hal ..ade:the ~t· impres!rlon·upon
it; .·TJN ~tfiot·-.pirita1'·however,"a~ar in theii
llbrolJ&: ..No .pjrit will gin itself a more wiCked form
th.a. oorrapi>nda·to what is m'thln; •&11d1 w.ere .it hypo- .
critically tb ·allltune a· better, other apirita would. soon
unmask it, nor dare it appear in such a form in any of
their IOCietiel. • ·
Buc t\tom·the gltost.-story now under cimsideration,
the weJl..fOQDded auppoaition may be drawn, that the
souls of departed·persona change their furm at every
gnd&tion cOt· ucent or deac&J~t; .so that in the· former
cue,·thef. heoome.more beautiful and radiant, but in·the
latter, more hateful and dal'ker•.·:TPe spirit in question
may have·been·a good; ~ npright member of soci-
ety, ofwbieh then are ~ou; .but he had. not taken
the true path from derJoieH.~ 'light, 'Or real conversion
and sanctification, through the plan of redemption by
Jea111 Cbriit. :He pouelllled the literal knowledge of
his ase;. he bew the hymnaiu.·hill tonnet b.~~·~c.:-.
270 ON AI'I'ARITIOlfl, &c.
but more than this he had not-learnt, during one him·
dred and twe~ty years. He was, therefore, with the ex·
ception of the long and dreadful period ofIda auil'eriDp,
still in the same state in which he died, consequently be
retained also the same costume. But when he waa at
length delivered from his affliction, he immediately u-
aumed a more glorioua form, although he was atill far
from being ripe forreal blesaedneaa: for the smgeiugIUld
burning of the Bible and handkerchief, appear to me to
be a proof that hia mind was still very paaaionately dia-
posed; and he continued to foster his fixed idea, that he
son should at length obtain poueaaion of the treasure.
With what kind of spirits this pitiable being had as-
sociated during this long period, the narrative does not
mention. From other occurrences of this nature it is
ascertained, that immediately after the departure of a
human soul from this life, angela join it, to conduct it
to celestial bliss. If it bring with it earthly-mindedneas,
favourite propensities, and passions, so that it ia still in-
capable ofthe felicity of heaven, the angela endeavour
to instruct it better; but this ia generally rejected there,
in the same manner as when pions preachers and apiritu:ll
guidea admonish the worldly-minded here.
The society of the angels becomea burdensome to
the soul, it avoids them, and seeks ita like, with whom
oN APPAamows, &c. J71
it can bonverse on th~ to which it is moat attached;·
hence IIOCieties &rite of one sentiment; but as in the
spiritual world, every thing is utterly wanting that can
l&tisf'y the wiahea they cherished in the material world,
theiT longing growa more and more ardent and painful,
and their ideaa more and more ftxed and permanent, so
that dreadfully pain1bl and tedious means are necesaary,
in order atill to save the wretched spirit. It ia highly
probable, that theae societiea of spirits are under the
superintendance of some other spirit, whom they can
endure and are pleased with; for even here the liberty
ofman remains untouched. But this superintendant is
also a member of these societies, and is still in error ;
consequently those spirits that are subordinate to him,
whilst obeying him, are not free from error.
This supposition appears to me demonstrable from
the circnmstance of the spirit always betraying a depen-
dance upon ~ther beings, being at one time oblig~d to
depart, at another, fllinT«d to return. It is also singular,
that 'very period mentioned, bas· the number twenty for
itsdefinite number: thus six times twenty make gne hun-
dred and twenty years; and then we have also one hun-
dred and twenty and twenty days. We are ignorant, if
this mode of calculating time belonga to the mysteries
of the spiritual world, or whether it be founded in the
•
supexstitious ideas ofthose to whom tbe spirit was subor-
272 Olf Al'I'UI'l'l0Jrl1 &c.
dinate ; it is however certain, that. his apirit.ual direct.on
erred iu commanding·and pt!II'Dlitting him ~- _. ....._
t.auce, in such a manner, &Qm his deecendanta,~ ,....
still upon earth. Thie back road ie never the pa~per._.;
I am willing however t.o make an exceptioll, wba e
apirit ie able, by 10 doing, t.o at.oae, or make ~
aa much a-posaible, for the off.eaoej~ he ~ etmunitt.ed,
aucb as murder, thefts, debta. &e. but e•e"·ben I will
not apeak decisively ; it being far better that t.hla IUe
place on thie side the grave.
But that the spirit and hie superiors erred, ia eri·
dent from thia, that he was translated a degree higher,
notby the prescribed and appointed method ofobtaiuiog
poasession of the treasure, but rather by the reverse. It
was veryfortunate that the spirit met. with pious people.
in whom he confided; otherwise he would have become
still more unhappy. Both father and aon conclacted
themselves excellently, and in a truly chriatian-like and
exemplary manner. They are now both of them in a
better world, and doubtless rejoice at having thu nobly
endured the trial. Yet there mW!t certainly have been
a good spirit, who was alao active.in the affair, who pro-
duced auch a degree of terror in the son, and baUDd hia
tongue when the apirit was preaebt; perhaps without
this, the good people might still have let t.bealaelves be
deceived through ignorauce.
Olll' .A.PPARITIOlll'S1 &c. 278
But that our great Redeemer has made, even in the
otherworld,thoUgh C?Oncealed from us, most wise arrange·
menta, bywhich soula may still be saved, and conducted
to the light, though they will never attafu to that bles•
~ess, which is prepared for those whose sanctifi·
~tion is perfected here, seems to be .certain. " The sin
against the Holy Ghost, shall not be forgiven, either in
this world or the next," consequently sins are also for·
giTen in the next world! !! but woe unto him that post-
pones it till then; for his presumption approaches' near
to the sin against the Holy Ghost!
But the soul that will not conform itself to ihe
means thus provided, and on the contrary, increasingly
af:rengthens its propensities and its ·passions, continues
falling into worse company, of a similar chfu-a.cter to
itself, until it reaches itil boundary in hell.
Forty years ago, I was acquainted with a very
pions and enlightened tradesman, whose deep views;
and truly holy charaCter I have often admired. I learned,
much from him, and he told me many things before-
hand, which were afterwards fulfilled. I visited him
during IUs last illness, and witnessed his happy end.
·Thia friend had a modest, quiet, and reserved jour-
T
274
neyman, with whom, on 8CCOIIDt of hia knowledge aad
aood conduct, hl!liv~d on a cqo.fldential footi111· ~
convenedfrequently upo~ the state ofthe aoulaftercleMia,
and likewise, in particular, upon .the restitution of all
Urlnga. The journeyman by ~grees ~e conmmp-
tive, but my friend kept him with JPm,.even in this Rate,
and accompanied ~. aa it we~, to the gates ofdea&h.
During the whole period of ~ ~aa, the above COD•
venation waa continued, ~d my friend ventured to ze.
quest thejourneyman to appear tG him after hie deeeue,
iC possible, and inform.him of hia state, and also reapect-
ing the restitution of all things. This the journeyman
eurged to do, iCpermitted.
The yowtg man died soon after, and hia master
then waited for hia visit, and for news from the other
world. Abo~t three weeks after the decease of the jour-
neyman, as !:is master, one evening about teo o'clock,
after undressing himselfin hisbed-room, hadjuststepped
into bed, and waa still sitting up in it, he obaerved on
the oppoai~ wall, a bluish radiance, that formed itself
to a human figure ; on which he fearleaaly asked, " Ia it
thou, Johannes?" The spirit audibly answered, "Yes.''
He inquired further, how it fared with him! The spirit
replied, tliat he was in a tranquil state, in a desert and
gloomy region, but that hia fate was not yet decided.
Olf APPARITIONS, &c. 275
Then followed the question respecting the restitution of
all tJ;Uga; but to this the spin"t gave no other answer,
than the following lines from an old hymn ; •
Here let u.s all the Lord entreat,
And fall before his mercy-seat;
Before our Maker let us bow.
·The word "here'' is the principal point. It is here
that we must, and that we ought to arrange our affair•
with our merciful Saviour, and as my late uncle, John
StilliDg, once aaid, "Take ciare to be amongst the first,
that cross the stream of Jordan." , .
My friend was bold enough to requestanother visit,
which also ensued, .some time after, but it was terrible.
I could never learn the particulars of it; but it had such
an e6'ect, Chat the worthy man warned every one against
such temerity, and was now convinced, that we ought
by no means to seek intercourse with the spiritual world
on this side the grave, but avoid it as much as possible.
The generality ofapParitions, if not all, are deTia-
tions from.the dil'ine order, andconsequently sinful. We
ought not to wish for, much leu occasion them. The
~te ofour departed friends must remain a secret to us•
!76 OX AJ'PAB.ITIO:MS, &c:.
as well as the maxims of divine government, aooonlins
to which it ac:ts in the other world. Let us contea& our-
•
selves, till we have passed the bourn, with that whida
the Bible and unsought experience has revealed c:oneem-
ing it, and what we may still learn without preaumptuoua
investigation.
The surest mode of teaching is by example. I will
relate some additional authentic apparitions, in which
spirits have either announced their decease to their de-
parted friends, or have had something else to communi-
cate. In order to adhere, in the closest manner, to the
truth, I insert my authorities word for word. The fol-
lowing anecdote was penned down with the greatestpossi-
ble care, after being previously narrated by the under-
mentioned imperial privy-counsellor, Von Seckendorf.
King Frederick William I. of Prussia, the father of
Frederick II., stood in such a friendly connexion with
Augustus II. of Poland, that if possible, they saw one
another at least once a year. Thia was also the case a
short time before the death of the latter, who appeared
at the time, to be in tolerable health, except that he had
rather a serious inflammation in one of his toes. The phy-
sicians had therefore strictly-warDed him against any
excess in the uao of wine, &c.; and the Ki~g of Prusaia,
OX APPA:&JTJOXS, &c. 277
who was aware of this, gave orders to his field-marshal,
Von Grumbkow, who was to accompany the king to the
borders, and to entertain him there, at one of the royal
reai'dencea, aecordirig to his rank, that at tbe parting
dinner, .he was carefully to avoid every thing by which
that moderation in the use ofwine, which the physicians, _,
for the above reason, had so strongly recommended to
the Poliah monarch, might be exceeded.
But on the king's desiring to have a few more bot-
tles of Champagne, to make a finish as it were, Grumb-
kow, who was himself fond of this wine, consented, and
drank ao much of it for his own share, that in passing
'over the courtyard of the royal villa to his quarters, he
broke a rib against the pole of a carriage, and was there-
fore obliged, the nut morning, to be carried in a sedan
to King Augustus, as the latter intended .to pursue his
journey very early, and had still some commissions to
give him for the Prussian monarch. On this occasion,
the King of Poland was only dressed in a short fur cloak,
with the exception of a shirt open at the front.
In this very dress, but with his eyes closed, he ap-
peared on the 1st of February, 1733, about three o'clock
in the morning, to field-marshal Von Grumbkow, and
said to him:
!7S
" Mcm cher. Grumb'kow, je vieDa de mourir ee mo-
menta·Varao'rie!"• ·
. : •..
Grumbkow, the pain ofw&ose b~lten rib,.at thatlillie
allowed his little repoee, had o~ed immediately.._
fore, by the ·light·Of his night-lamp; and tluOapln. t1Wt
bed-curtaioa, that ~be door of'hiaanta-zoom, ill whtab 1a1t
valet-de-chambre slept, opened, thata lqlnuDa~
entered, which having made the tour of' hia bed, with a
albw and aolaon pace, OlD. a auddeD oPened hia becl-car-
taina. "There•stOod tbe'·fignre of'.IGDg ~ex.
actly.u the· latter Jmd preaented himlelf' ali,.. befon
him, only a few daye previoua, .before the utoufabed
Gnunbkow; and after ha~ epobn the worda above-
mentioned, went ailt of. the door again. Grumbkow
r.mg the bell, uked the valet-de chaabre, who haatened
in at the aame door, whether he had not seen the penon
who had just come in and gone ont ? bu£ be laad eeen
nothing.
Gnunbkow immediately·wrote a atatement ol the
whole affair to his friend, the imperial ambassador and
field-manhal, Count Von Seck.endorf, who wu at that
time at King Frederick William'a court, and besought
•" My dear Grumbkow, I bavejust expired at Wanaw."
•
Olf AfPARITIO!JI~ &e.
him .to. 'eommunieate the matter, in :•. ·pr&per inllilli'er,
to tD .::Jdng On the par&di:t; : .On the arrival of!
~Wto,~s: ..note at .the ambas~or ·Von SeckeB-
dorf.'a; .wbioh :waa.at five o•clook in the. morning, there
._.. :no.>on&With him but'Von Seekendolf, :his aister'r
80btand iiecretary to the embassy, afterWards 'ininiater at
the Conrt of Brandenburg Anspach, and finally imperial
privy-coUDsellor. The former said to him, whilst offer-
ingWiD.the note to read, "One would think that pain
had made a:irieiouary of Old <humbkow : I must, h&w-
evfli,.'communicate the contents ofthis letter to the king,
dU.a Yeey.-y;" ·
·..:Forty~sbi hounndl.er, (if.I mistake not,) the~
arrfvlci at•:berlin,·.
by the; Polish Ulana··aud·'Prnaltirm
HuRri, ;.htt we~«Jationed e\lery'ten miles frcJDi.W~
saw to Berlin, that the King of•Poland died in the·.same
hour at Waraawj that Gmmbkow saw the apparition.• ·
It inay also be added in confirmation of the above,
from the Hi!!lioryofthe Life and Acts of Frederick Wil•
liam t,' King ·of Prussia-Hamburgh and B:reilau,
173:71 . page·454, that the King of Poland is also stated
there to have died on tlie 1st of 'Februlll'Y, 1733,. and
that this event w~ already known in Berlin on the 4th.
"'See Note 10.
!JSO ON Al'PAB.I'l'IOXI0 &e,
It is also further observed, that the· King of Polaud, in
his journey backwards and forwards, between Dretdeo
and Warsaw, took the road from Dresden by way~
Crossau to Karga, and from thence finally to Warsaw;
on which occasion, the King of Prussia almost always
sent General Grumbkow, one of his miniaten of atate, to
welcome him there.
The truth of this tale reats upon. the creclibility of
persons, of whoae integrity and sagacity it would be
•
criminal· to doubt, it is therefore a certain fact. XiDg
Augustus, at the approach of death, uauredly regretted
deeply that he had so ill followed the advice of his phy-
Jicians, at Grumbkow's entertainment; he might also,·
at the same time, deem his host reprehensible for not
having removed out of the way, evel'J thing that might
be injurious to him, and for having complied with his de-
sire for Champagne, although he knew the sentiments
of the physicians, atld had, besides this, received instruc-
tions from the King of Prussia, carefully to avoid what-
ev.er might be pernicious to hia royal guest. Under the
intl.uence of this deep regret, and with this fixed idea, he
died. The earnest desire he had to make Grumbkow
aensible of his error, was the reason why he wrought
upon his imagination, and developed his feeling of pre-
sentiment: and from hence originated the apparition.
O,N .APP.AlUTIONS, &c. 281
On snch an oceasion, it must not be supposed that
the soul of the king had to travel from Warsaw to Cros.:
san; he that has sufficiently apprehended the principles •
which I laid down at the very commencement of this
work, will remember that the human soul, whilst in the
body, ia conscious of every thing in time and space,
through the medium of its sensible organs; but as soon
asit leaves the body, that which we call space, substance,
extension, distance, &c. ceases, I wish to be clearly
uadentood; the idea the soul has received in this life,
of tlle objects of the material world, it possesses and re-
tains; but it is henceforth no longer suscepn'ble of these
objects, with the exception of what it learns from the
·aouJ.a that are continually arriving in the spiritual world,
or when the unfrequent case occurs, that it enters into
rapport with a penp:1 still living, and appears to him.
I beg also, that it may be duly observed, that tile soul
does not change its nanue; it eternally retains the fun-
damental principles of its powers of thought, namely,
time and space, but both are then divested of all that is
perceptible here; whilst on the contrary, it becomes sus-
ceptible of the objects of the spiritual world, but of these
also in time and space,forit cannot be otherwise; yet \'l-ith
this esaential dift'erence, thatin time and apace in the spi-
ritual world, every thing is near, and nothing remote; it
can know what is taking place at a distance, and what
282 ON APPARITIONS, &c:.
will take place in future, so far as the lam ofthe apiri·
tual world permjt.
I know that many worthy iridividnals, and peiiiODI
of religious sentiments suppose, that after death; we
shall study the works ofcreation, travel from startoat:lt,
on errands of high importance, and find in io doillg, a
great part of our felicity ; such readers of this worlt will
shake their heads, and be dissatisfied with my mamaer or
representing the matter. However· I now tell them, for
their consolation, that I myself ·have this idea, but be-
lieve it will only be realized, when the soul is in pos·
session ofits newly glorified and immortal body.
There are several instances, and I myself know of
persons having seen themselves, and dying shortly after-
wards. When a person sees himself out of himself,
whilstothers who are present observenothing, the appa·
rition may be real, or !t may be merely imaginary; but
when it is also perceived by others, it is no phantasy,
but something real.
The following anecdote was related to me by a cre-
dible person, who had heard it stated as a fact by the
son of the lady to whom it refers. Old tltll6i·Von
M-- was sitting below in her parlour, and·iJe~Wtler
OW APPAillTIO:tts, &c. 283
maid upstairs to her bed-room to fetch something. On
opening tbe door; JJhe saw her iniatress.sitting there ari
· Datilrally in her ·ann ehair, as she had left her below.
The woman affrighted, ran down'stairs, and told the lady
what abe had seen. The latter, morder to convince
1lenelfof the tmth, went up stairs herself, and saw her-
self jnat aa the maid had seen her. She died not long
after.
IR the :fif\h article of the second volume of the Mu-
seum of Wonders, we 'read of the following apparition of
this natnre. M. Triplin, one o{ the government secre-
taries, residing at Weimar, went up, aa he was wont to
do, to the archives, to seek for an act, on which much
depencleci, and on account of which he was very uneasy.
On arriving there;•he saw himself sitting upon a chair.
Much terrified, he went home, and sent a servant-woman
thither to fetch the documents that were lying on his
seat. The woman, it is asserted, found him sitting there
also, and believed he had capJ.e there before her some
other way.
In the following leaf, page 390, there is a tale of
the same kind related, whic~ • also been told me else-
wherlt~lfBecker, professor ofmathematics, and morning
preaCher at St. James's Church in Rostock, being in the
company ofseveral young friends, wnomb.eb.a.~\."1.\.'0\\e~,
284: ON APPA..ITIONI, &c,
fell into a theological dispute, by maintaining that a cer~
tain divine had expressed a particular opinion in hi. work;
but some one denying this, he withdrew, and went into
his library to fetch the book. Here he aaw himself ait-
ting on a chair, at the table where he umally •t. He
went nearer, looked over the right shoolder of the per·
son who was sitting, and observed that thit figure of
himself pointed with one of the fingers of his right ha:Dcl,
to a passage in the Bible, which lay open before him. He
looked, and saw that it was thel8 wordt ; " 8et thiDe
hoUJe in order, for thou shalt die." He retnmed to the
company, full of aatoniehment and dismay, and related
the occurrence ; but although they sought to penuade
him to the contrary, and to obviate every prejudicial
construction of the circumstance, he continued finn in
the opinion that this apparition betokened his death, and
accordingly took leave ofhis friende•. The day following,
at six o'clock in the evening, he expired, being advanced
in yean.
As it is impossible to explain every appearance of
this nature by common mechanical ]aws, recourse is had
to some secret powers of the soul, still undiscovered, to
which effects are ascribed, that are •till more incom-
prehensible and incredible than the·appearance ofipiritl.
In order therefore to avoid admitting the l~ter, it is
affirmed that Professor Becker di~ from lear, or from
ON APPARITIONS, &c. 28a
the impression which the imagined apparition made upon
him.
I am firmly peraua!led that no one bas ever yet
come to his death by an impression made upon his
imagination; and that all those cases, which are adduced
hi proof of it, are only possible in two ways, and may
be explained by the instance last mentioned.
Fmt.-If the apparition seen by Profe88or Becker
was no reality, but the mere effect ofhis imagination, that
apparition was the effect of some secret bodily cause of
his approaching end, but by no means the cause itself.
Seeondly.-But if the apparition really was a being
from the other world, that wished to announce his death
to him, and to give·him to understand that he should
prepare for it, the sufficient cause of death therefore
again already existed, before he saw the apparition,
because that was the object of the latter's appearing.
There are certainly instances of people dying in
consequence of sudden violent etilotions of the mind,
which overpowered all the faculties; but it is going too
far to explain all such appearances from this circum-
stance.
286 ON APPA&1Tl0llll1 &c.
But who, or what was the figure that repreaea.ted
Madam Von M--in the foregoing anecdote? for every
one easily sees, that this was no deception of the imagi-
nation, because the lady and her serv&nt both saw it.
According to my theory, it was a being from the
world of spirits, that during its life on earth, had been
much attached to.the M- family, or the lady henelf',
and had ascertained her approaching decease : the deaire
to inform her ofthis, in order that abe might be prepared
forit, induced it to appear in this ~er.
It is certain that our deceased friends are near u,
in whatever degree ofbliss or misery they may be; for .as
there is, properly speaking, no such thing as apace, be-
cause it exists only in our ideas, the departed soul ia
there where the object of its love is. But they are not,
on this account, sensible of us, any more than we are of
them ; what they know of us, they leam from aouls just
departed, and also from the arrangements concerning us,
which are made in the spiritual world. Now when a
spirit observes, that something extraordiDary or dange-
rous is about to happen to some one in the body, to
whom it ia much attached, it longs to make it known to
him; the means Cor this purpose are as cllilicult there,
as it is here for us to enter into rapport with spirits, and
OM APPA,B.ITIO:~u, &c. 287
perhaps also equally contrary to the divine order. The
apirit, therefore, makes. ch!>ice of such means as are iQ.
its power, ~ in this instance, where it took the form of
the ~oved individual, and placed itself in her seat.
These aelf-!ipparitions are therefore a kind of presenti-
ment, butwithout any developedfaculty of presentiment,
and witl;lout the co-operation of angelic beings.
The second anecdote, regarding the government
secretary, is imperfect; because we are not told whether
he really found the documents upon the table, or whe-
~ it was a mere illusion ; and whether he died soon
after.or not. Ifthe tale be true, it was a friendly spirit
who aought to l;lelp him out of his dilemma.
One of the most remarkable warning apparitions, is
that whic1;1 had r~nce to the Duke ofBuckingham. k
isalao au~entic, anclno pctitiousOJ;"embellished story, as
I know from good authority, I will now insert it liter-
ally, as it isJound in.the Museum 9£ Wonders, 2d. vol.
2d. Sec. page 89.•
TJJ,e Duke of BU4lkingham was prime minister to
Chacrles I. !Gng .of England, whose fav.orite he was; and
being looked upon.as the author of the arbitrary acts in
which ,the. ~ indulged, he was much hated by the
people, a,nd ..t'terwards lost his life in a violent manner,
188 OK APPA1l1Tl01fl, &c.
being stabbed with a knife by Lieutenant Felton, ia die
thirty-sixth year of his age. Lord Clarendon, ia JUa
History of the Reb,llion and Civil War in England,
gives the following account of an apparition, which pre-
ceded the death of the Duke of Bueking!am• ..
Amongst the officers or the wardrobe at W'm.t.ar,
was a man who was universally esteemed for hia iateg-
~ty and prudence, and who was at that time, about fiftJ
years of age. This man had been brought up ia hia
youth, at a college in Paris, where George Villien, the
father of the Duke of Buckingham, was also educated,
with whom he formed an intimate friendship, but had
never spoken with him since that period.
As thia keeper of the robes was lying in his bed at
Windsor, in perfect health, &e\'en months before the mur-
drr ofthe Duke, there appeared to him, at midnight, a
man of venerable aspect, who drew aside the curtains of
his bed, and asked him, whilst looking at him steadfastly,
if he did not know him? At'first, he made_no reply,
being half dead through fear. But on being asked the
second time, whether he did not remember ever to ha,·e
seen him? the recollection of George \'illiers, from the
similarity of features and d!'f'ss occurred to him; he
therefore said, he took him for George Villiers. The
apparition re}Jlied that he was iu the right, and begged
of'him to do him the favour, to go to.hia aon the.Duke
of Buakioghammhia Dame, -and teU him, " thathe mu.~
exert himself to make himself popular, or at leaat ~.
100th the embittered mmda of the people, otherwise he
would not be aui"ered to liveloog."- After~ lVOrda,
flhe apparition vanished, aad the good m~, whether he
wu faHy awake ornot awake, llept quiedy till mor.o.iDg.
On awald.Dg, he ~d t.\le appacition aa a dr~,
aDd pai& no partieular attention to it. A njght or tw:o
derwatdl; bbe lalile PQIIOD·appeKed ~ain, in -
IDe 'YUJ
euno place, and at rthe eame hour, w:ith rather a mqre
..WU upect thao the fint time, ;and asked him ~ .he
bad necmted the conuni11ion he had given him. .As the
appariaon knew very well tQt he had nQt 4oDe .10, ~
nproaehed him "Nry severely, and added, that it ·hadex,.
peokld greater compliance from·him; and that if he 'fo'IJltl
not fa.lftl ita requeat, he should have no rest, but tb4t •
:would follow him every where.
'llhe·terrified keeper of ~ -tobes promiaed ·obedi-
ence ; but in the morning :he·was still irreaQlute, and
knew not '!fhat to do. He could not bring hl.maelf to
ngard this aecond apparition, which waa so clear andob-
'rioml, aa a dream, ·and yet on the other hand, the ~
:rank of the Duke, the difficulty of obtaining admialion .
to his presence, and above all, the conaideration how h~
u
ebould make the Dub believe the thing, leellled to Ilia
to defeat the execution of hil enucl, aud to ...- It
impoe•ible.
Be wu for IODle daJI UDdetermJDecl whatbe lbaUl
do, at leugtb he took the reeolution to be • iuatbe ill
the matter u before. But a third IDd more dNMW
'riAon than the two former now 111cceeded; the appal-
doD nprouhecl him iD a bitter toDe, w:it.h DO& faltJifDc •
• lail promile. The keeper ofthe robee 0011lemll d.&Jae
W delayed the accomplilhment orthat which W .._
impoeed upon him, on ICCODDt of the cUlcal&y f1l ap-
proacbiug the Duke, u he bew DO one throaP whola
he could hope to gain admiuion to him ; and enu it be
foUDd meau to obtaiu an audieuce, yet the Duke would
aot believe that he had received lllCh a ~miuioll, be
wouldlookuponhimu iuuue, or lllppoH that he eoagbt
to ~ve him, either !rom penona1 malice, or from be-
ing prompted to it by deeigoiug people. lu thil JDU~~~er,
hia miD would be iuevitable. But the apparitiou COD·
tiuued firm to ita purpoee, and laid that he lhoWd hat'l
DO l'llt, UDtil he had complied with ita deeire. It abo
added, that admittance to hie eon wu euy, aud that
thole who wi1hed to epeak with him, neednot wait loag.
In order,however, that he might gain credence, it woald
lt&te to him two or three circumetancee, butof which be
mrut mation nothing to m.,oue, ~~t t.o the Dab
r
OX APP.U.ITIOWI, &e.
bimeelf, who upon hearing it, would give credit to f:h•
ftlt ofhis ltory al1o.
The man now beliend himeelf under the necessity
elobeying this thUddemand ofthe apparition, and there-
lore let of'the DUt morning for London; andu he was
iatimately acquainted with Sir Ralph· Freeman, the mu-
ter ofreque1t1, who had married a near relative of the
Dab'e, he waited upon him, and belought him to ulliat
ldDl with his in1luence to obtain an audience, baviDc
matten of importance to communicate to the Duke,
whick demanded great privacy, and eome time and pa-
tieaee.
Sir Ralph knew the prudence and modesty of the
...., and concluded from what he had heard only in ge-
nenl upreaione, that aomething extraordinary was the
caue& of hie journey. He therefore promised compli-
ance, and that he would apeak with the Duke on the
nbject. He leized the first opportunity to mention to
the Duke the good character ofthe man, and his wish for
aa audience, and communicated to him every thing he
knew of the matter. The Duke gave him for answer,
thathe wu going early thefollowing day, with the king,
to the ch&le, and that hie honee would wait for him at
Lambeth Bridge, where he intended toland, at five in the
cnr An.urnon, &e.
morning; and it the man would atteDd him thme,lle
might convene with him as long u wu neeeuary.
Sir Ralph did not fail to ecnidac:t the keeper or the
robel, at the hour appointed, to theplilee, liDcl m~
him to the Duke on hilluiding from the Teael. Tile
Duke receiftd him ftr1 eoarteoaaly, took him aide,
ud apoke with him nearly a foll.boar. TlleN WWilO
one atthe place, but Sir Ralph udthe Dab'• ..,....;
but all of them atood at lileh a ctiataDce, that it,... iia-
pouible lor them to bear liD)' thing or the eonTeiWIIIDI,
lllthough they •w that the Duke apob freqae:D.dyWit.h
much emotion. Sir Ralph Freeman, who bad bil e,a
conatantly fixed upon the Duke, obeerved this still bet-
ter than the rest: and the keeper of the robea told him,
on their retum to London, that when the Duke beiii'Cl
the particular incidents, which he revealedtohim, ia or-
der to make the rett of his communication erecb"ble, he
changed colour, and affirmed, that no·one but the dnil
coulcl have dieelosed ibis to him; beeauH Done bat 'be,
(the Duke,) and another person knew of it, orwhom he
wa11 convinced, that she bad told it to no one.
The Duke continued the chase, it wu however ob-
ae"edthat be frequently leftthe comp&Dy, and appee.red
•uuk in deep thought, and took no part in the pleaure.
,
• o• AHAUII01CI1 h. 293
He 14the ..ma-the 1a111e fcmmoon, aliglated. at White-
. hiD, aadrepaind.~ m.an~u'i apartment., -with whom
he wu cloMted for hto 01: three hoUrs. Their loud con•
Yenation was heard into the adjoining apamnenta; aud
when he came out, much disturbance, mingled with an-
pr, wu -v.Uible in ma countenance, w.hich had never be-
fore been observed after convening with hia mother, for
whom.he always testified the greatest respect. The
c.ma.a1IU tpun~ in tean aftez the de~ of her
......ad pluapi mto the deepest grief. So much il
laMnna ~·~eel, that lhe ~d not aeem surprised,
Wbeia·.lhe ~·the aewaof the aasuaination of the
Date,:whi4hfollinred.some mon~ afterwudi. It wouW
tMrefan appear, that abe had prencnulyforeseen it, and
daa& ha aon bad urmed.her ofwhat.the keeper of ~e
Jeb. had ctiacqvwed to bini; nor did she mallifett that
grief in :the 18C}UJ!, which. lhe muat D8Cell&l:ily have
felt at the lou-oi aueh a belo.ved 10a..·
lt. ~ ftlat,8d, tbat tl)e Jarticular ~­
·eea, ef which the~ot.the robeanm.inded the Duke,
had reference to a forbidden intercoune, which he had
with one of ma •ery n.
ear relativea; ad aa ·he had
enty reaaon &o 110.ppon tha& the lady heraelf wOilld not
lpeak ofi&, -he thought that beaidea benelf, only· the
Deril ceuld JrMw·a aay"any tbing.ofit.
In the Britiah Plutarch. additional preupa are
adduced, which are laid to have refel)nce to the dea&h
of the Duke of Buckingham; but thne may all .han
originated in the aboft apparition.
Thia remarbble narrative fumialies materials for
seTeral important re!IW'ka.
Why ctid not George Villienappear to his BOD him-
self? Probably becaule the latterhad no nabual dispo-
sition to the denlopement of hia faculty of preaenti-
men't.; the Duke would perhaps also have zegarded the
whole affair as a deception of the imagination, and ha•e
made light ofit; but this he could not do whenhisfather
appeared to his tbl'lller ft:iend, and revealed a secret to
him which, the latter could not poeai.bly have known,
without the intervention of a :real apparition; and mp-
posing the father had himaelf told the secret to his eon,
yet this would not have prevented the BOD from continu-
ing to regard it ai a play of the imagination, leeing thet
he knew the secret, and that it was present to his mind.
This narrative is another proof to us, that our de-
parted friends learn our circumatancea and affairs, take
an interest in them, and strive to co-operate for our
welfare. A beatified spirit, that hu already attained to
o• APPARlTlOMI, &c. 29i
the mou of God ita Redeemer, doea not make choice
el tm. retrograde mode of acting ; but mpplicatea the
favour of ita c:ompuaionate Saviour, that by his allme-
cliatingprovidencehe would ~verrule the matter for goo?;
bu& ifa melancholy event cannot be prevented, becauH.
it muat operate for the generalgood, it adores the will of
ita heavenly Father, and is tranquillized; but a soul
that after death, still lives in, and conc«:ma itself with
terreazia1 thiugl. ud would gladly always have a hand
iJa III&Uen, tel.ecta mch illegal means, makea itaelf visi-
ble, when it findl opportunity, and occasions great per-
plexity to thole to w~ it appears.
It is to be ~ted that such extremely interestmg
eveuta u the •ppearing ofapirita, should be treated with
10 much cont.elnpt, and rejected as a aubject ofdisgrace ;
udthat he.who uaerta, that he haa seen any thing of the
kbld, ahould be laughed at~ ridiculed, and pitied, as a
man ofweakintellect. Every thing oughtto be candidly
and minutely inveatigated, and though in a hundred
atoriea ofthis kind, Dinety-Dine be found deceptions, yet
yet ifthe hundredth be true, the spirit that appears, is our
brother, at whoae fate :we ought notto reiD&in incllif'erent.
But then it is aleo necessary, in such a caae, that
we ahould know what ia our duty ; and to point out this,
ia one of the principal objects of this work.
IIHJ e• APP.U.I'1'18I'I, &c. 1
Had I been in the place of the keeper olthe ...,
ancl waa at length certain of the real pNI8D08 of abe de-
eea.ecl father ofthe Duke, I would have eu"Deatly tiiiJIIIl
mJ181C to God, have h1111lbly 10aght Ida proteotioD, 1114
then in a firm ad manly ID8DIUII'• haw eddnuecl 1M
*Pirit ai folloW'I:-
Dear friend, I grieTe to ~ee, that thoa hut Mt Jet
attained unto rest, and art still not in the ript waJ to
arrive thither. Remember what ahy RecJ.mer adlllile
baa aaid, "They have Mou. aud dut Pftlpbea.: iftJ.j
will not hear them, neither will they belie..., tboup Cllll
l'Oie from the dead." The Lord hal innumerable wa:p
aDcl mean1 of influencing the heart of thy 10a; apply to
him, beseech him to deliver thy 1000 and do DOt .et
umtance from weak mortalllike mylelf. If it ea be
done, eonliatently with his counlel1, he will cer1aia1J
Jiave mercy on him ; but if his death be detenniae4 b
the general good, my miulon would ai.o be in vaia: IIDd
in order to become the instrument of Ilia delivenaee, I
moat first receive the coJDJDiaion from a hiper laaaL
1ema Christ have mercy on thee! The Lord ble• thee,
and give thee peace I" In thele sentimente, I would haw
continued un1haken, and would have always acteCl upon
the aame principle•, in the event oftbtwe appuiliont.
297.
of thembel did1I'1'0Dg: he&ally followed his conviction;
but ithe had acted according to the above principles, he
perhaps woUld have elevated the spirit sensibly higher, aa
...the cue in the preceediDg narrative of the hidden
triUD1'e. Experience and the Word ot"'Ood are D!Y gqa-
181diee, that I have judged right in this ma~ter. What
did the meaaage and warning conveyed by the keeper of
the robel avail the poor spirit or the Duke? Nothing
wbala:rerl. The DDke, whethet in jest or in earnest, as~
·cdied the apparition to the Devil, and there it rest;t!d.
Aa:lmlg ai themindia 11-otbroughtto a deep and tborou~h
...,W.tance "'rith, and to a heat-rending eonvictioJJ. ()/..
itauupeabblypatmoraldepraYity,and thllJI iJJ.citedv
tale~-and sincere·CODvenion to baaten to Chrii$,
IIIIi with a Je&l·1111f1 opezative Iiiith, to •eek for ~·
lllicl the r~ of linJ in m·v.icaric>u:. death, atl
~t:ioaa, and their warnings avail nothbig.- They
.a.,-·&l'DUII the indiridual, an!iawaba. tn.Dsient re&e.
tion, but otherwile, .they are ofDO more uae, ·~ &nJ
other verbal or written admonition, for which purpose
WO have no need o( instrument&froiJl the other lJOrld.
The Collowing narrative Qf an apparition wa• sent
me by a very pious preacher. I am well acqainted with
this tmlyapoetolicman, and am ~~~.~e, thathe neverwrite•
a w01d,41fi:betlotlaofwhieh Jio ilnot perfectlycopvinced.
!98 OK Al'PAaJ'rlOKI, &a.
Here follow• a faithtbl copy of the statement coafldecl to
me.
•• Copy ofa atatement given me at my ...,.,....
request, which I ahall deatroy, after makiDg tbil dap-
lieate for Mr. Jung, Aulic Counaellor, in Older diM
after my death, it may not be made a had ue ot.•,.
"After my marriage in 1';99, writ. the will f1l tile
preacher, at N--, I had two vmona, which ..,.. ila-
explieable to me: one that wu pleua:nt, ud IIIIOdalr
that wu unpleuant. The fint waa u followa. Oa tile
20th orDecember of the -.me year, there appeaec1 to
me, wbilat I wu sitting at my work-table, engagecl ia
female employments, a little human figure like a frieDcDJ
child, clothed in a white robe; I attempted to aeise it
bu.t it vaniabed. Some time after, the aame figure apia
appeared to me, and I ventured to ask it, who_it wul
The anawer waa, 'I died whilat a child.'
"Queat.-What is thy name!
" An1.-Call me Immanuel.
• I hope to aYoid this abale, by leanag oat the - , ucl
whateYer ebe misht make the matter copiab&e.
o• UP.A.all'IOWS, &c.
•• i!rom that time, this being appeared to me IN-
quently, almoat daily, in the morning at eeven, at noon,
and in the evening at six o'clock. Sometimes it ap-
proached near me; at other times it hovered in the air in
the robm, walked np and down, and made corporeal
DlOYellleDtl.
"Itonce appeared to me on a joumey, several miles
diataDt from my reaidenee, and the coach being once in
daager ofbeing overturned, it held it up by force. ADo•
tiler time, on visiting a lady ofrank, thia being also pN··
-ted itsel£ It comes, likewiae, when other persons ue
with me, and speaks to me generallyinita ownIangu-.,
which to my own aatonishment I soon leamt to under-
•tand and speak. It sbmetimea informs me of what is
about to happen; for instance, it tells me that such a
friend of mine willaoon die ; that my mother ia ill;· that
I lhall receiTO a visit to-day from--; that my qua-
lity friends are unwell, and the like. It also makes it-
lelf visible in the night, and in the dark, so that I am
awakened by it, or hindered from sleeping. I urgeDtly
MqUelted the little Immanuel to let my husband aee
him, but he refuaed, and said, •It would not be well to
do so, and that he, my huband, would soon leave thia
world if he did.' I uked, what was the reason that I
alone waa able aad permitted to tee bim! • The reply
wu, ' There are few penona, who AJe deatined to see
such things.'
" More than once, I I&W our ch~yard full ofIau-
man figures, who were celebratinga festival, 111chu.that
of the Birth of our Saviour, Good Friday, &c. and iD
autumn, one particular hour, when Immanuel told me to
fall upon my kneea, and lay my1elf upon my Cace. The
language of Immanuel, u also that of the choml figaNI,
wu 10 101\, that I II.ID una"ble to d,ncribe it. On cme of
thale IOlemn OCCMiona, with the little Immanuel'11 per--
JDilaioD, I ealled my husb&Jld; but he I&W no&hiqgIDOie
than a green place, and the churchyard illuminated."
" So far my wife's account, to which I add:
" I.-The visit. of this beiDg, that calla himlelf
lmJI:l&Uuel, continue from one year to another. He ap-
pean almo1t daily, all on a •widen, and after ttayiDg a
ahon time, vaniahea again. Once he came at nooa,
w:hilat I waa pretent. My wife gave me a hint of his
being there, but I saw nothing. I observed, bowe't'u,
that the table lhook, at which we were dining, which I
oould not aacribe to any visible power. On ukiDg &am
whence the motion proceeded, my wife anawered '~
-,be ia unde~ - , ' (i.D a half whitper).
u 11.--.Two df our children also •• and remarked
thia iigure. The •on, a boy of about six )1\'UII of age,
aw it soaring up the wall; on the ceiling, and walking
'about; and an infant in its mother's arms, lAughed at,
'ancl tried. to seize the child-like fonn.
:-•tii.-I wrote down aome expressions, in the :flo-
mim charaeter, df the language in which Immanuel lind
my~ converse together, which she dictated to ·me;
but have mislaid the note. I know not to what- extent
it ia carried, or how far both parties are able to express
themaelvea in this language."
The minister's wife now states further:-
"It was on the 15th of June, in the year 1800, on
a Saturday forenoon, that I had the second apparition,
whilst washing myself: some one knoeked at my room
door, whi~h immediately opened, and a 'black figUre, in
the fonn of a man, clothed as a clergyman; his hat under
hill arm, and Weanng his OWn hair, a ruffabout his neck,
with'many plaits, accorditig to the ancient mode, ·went
up to my sleeping child, and looked at it. I Tan te~­
fied out of'the ioom, and the figure retired through ano-
ther door, which it cloaed with suCh violence, that the
latch was·throWn to a cbnsiderable dlatance.
lot OK APPAB.l'l'IOMI, &c.
"Five 1ean afterwarda, •Y in 1805, likewise on a
Saturday in June, at three o'clock in the afternoon, I
oblerved that some one played with the room door, con.-
tinually opening and abutting it. Thinking it wu my
huaband, aa I noticed somethingof a black coat, I called
out, ' Do come inI' when behold, the black clergymaa
entered! I raa terrified away, and he threw a chair af-
ter me, that wounded me in the heel, I called·my bue-
bmd, and went into the room with him ; we found the
thair still lying, but no one there."
" My wife related some other anecdotea to me,
which I pus over for brevity'• aake, and am, &c.
--·---,
Putor ol--, 21st Aug. 1807.
This narrative contains 110veral things that afford a
remarkable insight into the apiritual world. That it waa
no empty Tiaion, which the minilter's wife saw, but ia
realitya being from the invisible world, is certain, because
even the children observed the little angel. With res-
pect to these, and particularly to the infant in arms,
there can be no deception. The springing away of the
latch, the wounding of the lady's heel, and the chair
thrown upo~ the floor are also proofs bf. the real presence
gf the unhappy spirit of some former clergyman. On
the occaaion ol the extremely remarkable ldlemnity in
the churchyard,the ministerAW nothingtMrpt tAtdurd-
~ ilt...U.cttd. I regret that I do not know whether
the cJmrchyard had been illwninated by the illh&bitanta
Gl' ifthe light really proceededfrom apirita; on this poblt
much depeoda; for the minister saw the light also ; thia
waa. Jikewiae no empty vision, but a real solemnity.
Departecleoula, therefore, celebrate the festival• of their
Bedeemer and Saviouri. Hruk•! in time they shall aee
him aa he ia, &Dd celebrate his feaata in his presence.
Oo thla occaaion, I mustinserta remark, which I re-
qw.t may be seriouslytaken to heart. Many ofmy read-
en dread BD abode in Hadea. Dread it not, my frienda~
oaly leek to have an occasion to atay there. He that baa
endrely dedicated himaelf to the Lord, committed him-
lelf wholly to him, and found forgivene81 of sins in hi•
atoaiDg death. who leaves behind him no unexpiated
crimes, &Dd pole&ael no longer BDY predomin&Dt earthly
pulion, no attachment to BDY aensible object, soars,
immediately, on awaking from death, through Hades,
to the realms oflight, &Dd to the presence of Jehovah.
Nor baa Hades, abstractedly considered, any thing
in it ofa painful nature ; but at the same time, it baa
not the smallest thing that can aft'ord d~light &Dd enjoy-
ment to the departed spirit, except w\W.\h.~ \ll.t~"t ~~~
ox A.nu.rnon, &c.
with it. Ifthe individual have left the WOJ'Id, whillt
undergoing the procen ofeancti&ation, and ltill ..-.
10mething or other, for which there i8 no admieeion mt.
the celestial regiODJ, he mult remai11 in Hadea, till .U
this be laid aside; but he luft'en DO paiD, a.cept what
he ~auaea himaldf.
The real torment felt in Hadn, ia the J.onaialdlr
the things of thia world, from which the 110111 llu puted
for ever. Think of a man, who baa lived entirelyin--
IUallusts and pleasures, and hu been unacquainted with
the superior felicity of tb01e 8piritual enjO)'Diellt8, whiclt
religion affords : he may have been otberwile a pad
honest citizen, and not a vicious character, batcliea with-
out a serious and thorough conver.rion, and without ha•·
ing turned with his whole soul toGod. What must he feel
in that obscure and entirely empty region, which ia 10
utterly destitute of every object which could act upcm a
11inglc sense ! His whole earthly coune, with aU ita
gratifications, now prescuta itself in a lively mannerto bia
mind, he remembcn every thing he hu left behind, much
more· distinctly than before: he now longs to retum
whither it .is for ever impossible to him. He therefore
aeeks a miserable gratification in hia imaginatiou, by re·
presenting to himself anew, e\·ery thing that wu lo•ely
and pleasing to him, and likewise aeeka to realise them ;
but as the materla\a lot t'n\a "-ft. 'ft'a.l\.~, ~ "ft''!tchecl
ON Al'l'AIU1'IONS1 &c. 105
p]santoms,whichhis imaginationforms, are merelyvision-
ary, and his poverty-stricken spirit finds no where nou-
rishment. Thus he carries the seeds of bell about with
him, and every thing now depends upon what course he..
adopts. There is no want of good spirits, who kindly
and charitably instruct him what he has to do, in order
to become a partaker of celestial blessings ; that is, he
must purify his imagination from every image, and as
they depart, gradually lose also the love to earthly things.
But this is attended withmuch more difficulty there, than
in this world : here a man lives in the full enjoyment of
sensible nature ; the mortification of the tl1ings of sense
takes place by degrees, and whilst he forsakes the one,
he continues to enjoy the other, till this also falls away,
and he becomes at length indifferent to all things. To
this~ one thing more must be added, which is, that as the
man dies to the world, his inward spiritual enjoyment
increases, and this is also strengt'l\,ened and augmented
by the consideration of the glorious perfections of God,
which are manifested in the visible world. In short,
this present life is entirely adapted to lead back the fal-
len sinner, in the easiest and most convenient manner, to
his origin and to bliss. But in Hades, where all food
for the soul is wanting, to be obliged to partwith the very
last poor enjoyment, before the relish for a better can be
obtained, is dreadful! and yet this is the only way of
arriving at a state of blis11ful rest. He that does not
X
306 OR .&PP.Ul'IIORI1 b.
foUow this path, but IM!eb ·to eompo1e hia ·apirit. by
associating with other ·epirfta ·like himlelf, ·~
the phantoms of his imagination more and more, ad
with them, the ·torment oceasioned by·hill.cmgbqJ ala
this world, which at length awaken~ in him fury, np,
and madneu, and makes·hiJD·ripe·forhell. Prayiugb
departed souls is not to be rejected. But I return to my
explication of the prnio111 narrative.
This apparition diltinguiahea itlelf, from tboee.pre-
ceding it, in this respect, that neither of the beinga ftom
the other world had any requeat to make of the miuiMIIel"s
wife; it therefore appears to have had in reality no ape-
cific object, and to have· originated solely in the lady's
developed faculty of presentiment, by which she first
entered into rapport with the little Immanuel, who seema
to be her guardian angel. She has ·therefore a natural
disposition to intercourse with spirits;-but this is alwaya
a deviation from the laWB of nature. ·She ought not,
therefore, to attach any value to it ; for if she take a
pleasure in it, the faculty of pre~entiment will develop
itself still more, she will come into connexion with other
spirits, and may then be dreadfully misled. But though
this may nQt be the case, her health will mft'er from it,
and she will sooner pass into the company of spirits, tlwl
would have otherwise been her fate. She ought not,
ho'v.·ever, to grieve her \it~e ~ 'lm!f:.~\,""-t be kind
307
towards him; nor ought .abe.to avoid his company, but
by no meauato ~eekit1 ndeavouriDg, at the same time,
mo.t eam.e.tly.aud fwven~y; and :with constant prayer,
.to retain. the Lord alW&JI.in her zecollection, that ~be
may.noteft. in thia ~path, nor ahorten her daya.
I mention these things for the worthy lady's instruction,
in the Lord'• ILUDe, and :recoJiliiUIDd h.er to the protec-
tion o£oar.moat;merclful Redeem~r.
With reapect. to .t4e .deplorable black apirit, be is
probably onem-the.presentpmachet:'a predeceuors, who
atill aeelql. IODlethingthere, andis.•exed that.the pteach·
~·· ~ ia;able.to aee him :·..or.what .ia more probable,
he....,u.the. opportllllity to evir;aee his diapleuure, that
DO )qDser-he~ but anot)wr.filla th~: aituatioli•.
.0 ~w: .IA~ _is ~ poor •.~appy _
being to be
.P~t¥d.! ~ it ~ P'?~ble, 0 Lord, ~;lave. mercy on him !
But here I must insert a v~_impo:rtant wanung. Be-
ware of identifying this apparition with any one of the
former clergymf?n_
! . J:udge not, ~y belove~, but judge
yo~selves.•
What· the little angel said to the lady, respecting
her husband, is also remarkable, " That ;i he appeared
• This black spirit is now removed by the prayers ofthe minis-
ter; he no longer a-p-pean.
308 OW AR4&l'l'IOBS, &e.
to him, it might coat him his life," aad that "'l'llere
.are few persona who are deetined· to 1ee thiDp af
this nature." Thia proves my anertioa, that the clne-
lopement of the faculty o£. preaentiment ia·~
.and has an injurious eft'eet on the phyaical OOMtitutiaa.
An idea atilloccun to me with reipeet to the r..tin
figures in the churchyard, whether departed aoa1a do DC&
occasionally clothe themselves with their remrreetioa
germs, and are thus able to approach nearer to the...,.
terial world. For there are also wandering .prill,
which are seen of many, even without a developemea& fll
the faculty of presentiment; theae have moat prot.bly
a more materialcovering. But as the reaurrectiou~
is concealed from the eye of aenae, and as those only see
it, who have a physical ability for it; spirits must there-
fore be able, by means of this resurrection-germ, to at·
tract atmospheric particles, and form to themselves ID
appropriate figure from them.
It is a fixed principle with me, not to include uy
anecdotes in this work, of the certainty of which I haft
no proofs ; otherwise I could adduce instances, in which
courageous persons have approached black and danger·
ous spirits, and even gone through them ; but they after·
wards felt the bad effects of it, by swellings arising in the
skin, and severe illneaa ~· A. ~rt.o.in. watchman
o• APPABI!'IOWI1 &e. 309
orthe name of Osmann, who is said to have formerly
lived in Erfurt, is reported to have died in consequ.oot:e
of a circmnllt&Doe ofthis kind·; ·and it is affi.rmed that
f:be' matter underwent a judicial inv~tion at the
time. Let us beware ofpresomption on the one hand, .
ad of timidity on the oth~r. The true christian avoids
UJU18Cell&l'Y' dangers; in other reapects, he is afraid of
nothing ; he continues in the path of his vocation, and
when any thing of this nature occurs to him, he exa-
mines-it with clroumspection, and if he finds it to be
really a spirit, he'points it, in the name of Jeans, and
with afi'ectionate earnestness, to the place whither it be·
longa. As to the railing of spirits, it ia impious and
UDlawfol preaumption; and the COtJjuring and banishing
of them, u.D.kind and unchristian.•
Before I proceed further, I muat lay before my
readers, and explain according to my theory, the well-
known story of the apparition·in :Brunswick; because it
haa reference to a spirit, that had still something to
regulate in this world, which hindered its progreas.
There is no doubt of the truth of the narrative; I know
it from many authentic sonrces, and inaert it here lite•
rally, as related in the 5th article of the 2nd vol. of the
Mueeum ofWonderi. ·
• See Note 11. ·
310
br·the ,_.-1'168, Cbeze.diedift·Brunawick, ahortly
~_St• .Jeb.'a·d&y, r. )f, ~,·Oile.ohhe proc~ors
ofthe ~e :C9llop.; li~Un.'lfho. :bad .alwa;ys filled
bia oftict. wi~.•dAUty ~d:: ~t;c;ht\Uness, ~Wd. -.bo
wae clilti.D~ by';trr toft~ e.,.J\·.~!Jlper; 1/.!td ,-~­
cerity ~th.: JtudRt :and·~ _.lJ:Btne_4i._~lY. bet'Qz:~
his cletl!th,rlle reque.ted:tba&.:M•. Hoofer~-- -.nother of th~
procto~ ~-an in~fritlldo{W,,:might be unt for_,
b.aving:.o~tlUpg- neeciiM'f.wdleJltion- to _him. ~l!.e
lAtter, _$l._OPJ~Jle'~~ ial :beda:.w~·not.~ye
JU..fi;iend'l ~--~~jt\t~~:w.~t to_hilp-.
but lle.CihD6 too ~:.tl:t.o ,_tMM-_,Ng;·~dy -~-.«;h~
tcont~ore.th..·. .4ftrlr.-~,~--,;J!Q~ was sp~,
thiit·ilm Oboe,. llll4·h...,tb!.!r,ltad'"•'.Oe.!~-Ppari1!ion
· of the deceased in the ColJ!ep:_b\tt a.. this· ~nee
proceeded merely from the young people, little attention
'fll ,.tj..foit.; atlae~o__,-il. ~ ...-..dec~: to be
all ~e "•'lll:tol~~-* ~:~11~ of.. fear~
At~ IJ).!lVM-i·.~f-.~ !be.Qlantb of: Qct.obeJ:
17~,: •llidl~.--.Y.Jt<l:A~lt iJQ~ceto ~~
tal~~ inaea~hf~ l«M~W»~..u~
.. M luul ~
Yiously b.e~ :tbt~let. ·;.Tlfo:.d~~ :~en: appeared
toM. Hoeter_-at the-hour,when;.aceQr!&tato quatPm;.~
went his rdltll.cl• in the '0olltge. J~tw~en eleven _an.Q.
twelve at night, in order to see if bi• subordinates were
in bed, and every thing in proper order. On coming to
the aparbnent of M. J';.•padiut; he saw the deceased
311
~it.ting close.to. it, in hia. commoJl night;-gP:v{D-, ~d white
night'"cap, which he held.do.wn.with hiuight hand; ao
that.oJlly half of.hidace~ '"'J·th~ low.er part.. from thtt
chin to the eyes. could.be &eello, but.this.,however,,most
dist.inctly~ .',l'W,a. unexp!lcl'ed:sight terri1iJld M. H~er
in. I!Ollle degree,.~ in.the.C9Dsciourin~s.of~eing in the
path o!duty, he..aoon recollected bimstili't'IUld. w.ent into
the.toOll'l; aftel; he.had.found,all right,. bet shut th~ .cloor
after him••and.obaerv.e.d ~e _pllantom.he bad b.efore see~
atill fixed ip i~ former posi!iqn~ llfo\ took.C01UIIfl8 to
go .up toit.. &DP· hel!f lbe.liPt ~ to jts facQ ; but
then .such a homn:cam1 ov~r him, that.he could BCI&fce~
with~ -4ia~ ~ .which. iroq1 that JDOment VfGI.
so swollen, that. IQllle. J;QQQt.b.: ela~ ~re it wa.s
healed.
. .. -
... ,ne lollq~ da:y:~ ~related, tlWJ, ~ occur-
r.eaca to M •.q.~r .P~. of JW.thematica, w~o, $I a
pbil~oph~i ~not.beJiev.&. ~tale,·. but decW'ed it
to b&~he:a: a ~- or • ~"II: ,_
of thA ~tion.
Butm order to.~ the.~ 11J.ore..correct.Qr• .be
offered to ~mp~~~oy. ll~ lJqeW; the .~e .night. calcu-
la~, with ~D.QS,.ll~~~- hlm thathe had
either. seen DOWug,__or:dlat:l~~ .~-.d himael£ to
be cleeeiveo by ~·~ ~.ilteh aDCi.~ ...Both ~t
$berefore, lletwee~~. elovea~ \lfclv•o'lllock to ~ pla,ce
above-meauoned ; bu,t u JQQa "' they came ~ the
\
310
"'·- In the ~ 1768, there.cUe4ill·BIWltwick.:Udrtly
-._st. Johu.'a city, • )(, Dowie,·Cllle.oftbe...,...
of the Car9liue ·Cpll•.; aJ:Un who heel .at...,. filled
hie oftlce. 1rith:aU .U!dlty ~d· -..~Ailne:-•• uad •
wu diltiDgaithed by' :&.lOA ad ....~ .-per•..od •••
cerity 'b!>th·.pJUdeat and natvaL liPl~-J WDrr
his defth, lat requetted·the& M•. Hoofer~· aether ql. •
proctor~;~ a# intiaa&e:frilmdo{ldlt,·• t'be..-~
baving IIO~tablg nece...,. t4> meption to..him. l)e
t.tter, altJlouB~ he wu ~ iJa 'bed. ·"QGIIl·DOt..."
Jrla.friend'• requett-pf1U1Wf1Cltu.~~~:-t~tto_ldati
but he.C$De too late. tbe ,.a.-...W..·m-11 .-.. *
~el of death,· AfteriQIIlo ~ •-•~ wu .......
that ftnt ODet and tJmt UIOthor, !uld'MGD·abe appuilioD
· of the deceased in the Co~; h\!C u tbil ~
proceeded merely from the young people, little attention
w•paid eo ~t; on.the ~ontnry~ it ..,.. ~ to br
all the reault ofimJWuti~"DD4.er ~:inftu~ ol fMr,
At leogth, an event.occunecl, in. !b• etonth of October
1746, which iDduced maoy.to. ·~- iJQpqrtBDee to &be
tale, inlllead ofnj~t.mg it• t,otally. liD~ M 11M ,...
Yioualy b.eeJl the cue. .TJse cle....- J)oerien apteared
to M. Hoefer at the hour-when; accpntiltlto cawtia. •
went hia rdUDda in the ·colltge, betllreen eleven ml
twelve at night, in order to aee ifbia mbordbwew wae
in bed, and every thing in proper order. On c:omiJ1S to
the apartment of M.. 'l:.t.m~ u -.-... tha cleceued
311
piWDgclo1e.to. it, in hia.COQWOD Wght;-gP~t ~d white
oipkcallt wbiah he held.do.wn.with his right hand; so
that.cmly halfo(hia.face,. uy th.lllow.er ~· from th11
chiato the ey;ea, could.be see~~•.buUhis., bowever•.most
di.ltinotly. 'J'W,a. unex~cred sight terrifi~ M. H~er
ia.~ degree,.~ in tlJ.e 99Dsciousnet~~.ofbeing in the
patJl o!dat.y,·be,.soon recollected~· &lld went into
~e ,~ ;.~ he.badfound,all right.. h(t shut tb~.door
after him.,u~ .oblerv.ed the phantom,~ llad before seen,
~ 1iSiiclip U, former posi~. &\. took .courage to
F...up to,it,. ~· held the. Ug;JU ~ to its ~ ; but
- ,11lch a ~came ovi.U' him, that.he could BC!U'Ce~
with~ ~bud. ~ which. iroql that moment \f>1,tl
10 aw~lleD, that BO.IQe. J;QDQ~ elapaed before it W:&ll
healed.
.:JJ:~ .WUq~ da:y:~ ~ related. tbia, 11ingu1ar occur-
~~· lf~:~r .P~ o! llji,Othemati.ca, who, aa a
· p]W~h~i woul4not believ.& tb tale, but declared it
~~..bel: a ~. or a ~on .'If the, ima.gQlation.
~ ~ o~ to..~ the.lll&tt.el ;more correctlJf,. Wl
o&recl to ~:m.pa11.y: )(. Hqe~a: thta wne night, calcu-
~. wi&h~~& upQilc:Q;U~ him tbat he ha.d
ei~.1ef1D..~. or·dlat:boaa,d •utfered :himself to
he.cleceivet bJ aapectJ;e. oi.11Mb u.d blood. Both ~t
~•.betweea do:yaaaa4 \lr'lveq''IJ,odt to the pla.ce
alJon-mea&iouod; but • ~ Mo ~ ~ u.~ t.b.e
312 Olf A.PPAillTIOlU1 &c.
room, Professor Oeder exclaimed with a great aaevera-
tion, " There is Doerien in reality !" .M. Hoeler went
silently into the room, and on his return, the apparition
was still sitting in its customary position aa it had done
the night before. They looked at it minutely, for 10111e
time : every thing was ·distinctly visible, they could
even clearly distinguish its swarthy beard, yet neither
of them had the courage to speak to it, or to touch it,
but both went away fully convinced, that they had leeD
the late proctor Doerien, who had died .Ome time before.
The news of thill event extended itselfmore and more,
and many persons went to the place pointed out, to con-
vince themselves of the truth of the matter, by oeolar
demonstration, but their attempts were fruitless.
Professor Oeder himselfwished to see the phantom
once more, for which purpose, he frequently went to the
place, and sought it in every corner, with a- firm deter-
mination of addressing it ; but the trouble he took wu
not recompensed by any result corresponding with his
wishes ; on which account, he once expressed himself
ns follows, "I have gone after the spirit long enough to
please him; ifhe now wants any thing, let him come to
me." But what followed? About fourteen days after,
when he was thinking any thing elae than ol ghoett, he
was suddenly and rudely awakened, between three and
four o'clock in the moming, ~ tmn• ~ ~
ON APPAJliTIOl!fl0 &e. 313
On opening hi~ eyes, he saw an apparition, opposite to
the bed, standing by .the clothes-press, which was only
two paces. from it, that presented itself in the same attire
uthe spirit. He raised himself up, and could then
clearly discern the whole face. He fixed his eyes stead-
lastly upon the phantom, until after a period of eight
minutes, it became invisible.
· The next morning, he was again awakened about
the same time, and saw the same apparition, only with
this dift'ereil.ce, that the door of the press mBde a creak-
ing noise, just as ifsome one leaned upon it. This time
the spirit remained longer, so that Professor Oeder
spoke to it as follows ; " Get thee hence, thou evil spi-
rit, what hast thou to do here ?" At these words, the
phantbm made all kirids of dreadful motions, waved its
head, its ·hands, and its feet in such a manner, that the
terrified professor began to pray, " Who trusts in God,
&e!'. and "God the Father dwell with us, &e." on
which the spirit vanished. ·
After this, Oeder enjoyed eight days of rest and
peace, during which the spirit did not trouble him ;
but when these were expired,· the apparition again
·mowed itself, at three o'clock in the morning, but with
·this di1l'erence, that it came from the ·press directly
towanU him, ed inclined ita head O"l~'t nlm., "-\) ~"1.
no longer able to contain himaelf. he apruDS up m
Ida bed, and attacked the epiritwith violeDce. The lat-
ter retreated to the pre11, but sc:arcel7 bad he laid him·
self down, than the epirit eeemed dellirou. of buardiDg
&llOther attack, and again approached the. proleuor. The
.1ettu now obeerved~ tbat the ghoat had. a abort tobacco-
pipe in ita mouth, which, pe~hafa, tbroupr.-, he had
not previouely :remarked. Thia circumataDce, uad the
apir,it!e very mild mieD, which aeemecl man friendlJ than
aDfPY• dipliniahed hia terror, ud ~w.pd himto ad-
dJIDN. the epirit u follows, " Are yon ltill cnriatl. ay
tWag?" He knew beforehawl ~ tbe decaaedluld left
10111e debta, to the. amoUDt ofa few dollan. whi~h OCD-
doaed themquiry. At thia gueation,.tile .pmntlaled
"*•pac.~e baokwards, lifted iaelf.et:raigJat up. ju& u it
Meirwl of littenin1 to IIODle oaa with aUeDtion. He
lllfCl8ted the. queation once m:ore. on which tho. .prit
pMitd ita Ji&bt hand backward& aDd fOrwarda ov. itl
moutb. The black beard, which PJOfeuor.Oecler ooaW
dietinctly perceive, caueed him to· iDciuire whether he
had etill to pay hie barbert on which tb,e epirit alowly
aaook ita htad aenral timet. The white tobaeco-pipe
pre rile to a uw.inquiry, "An you perhap. owiug
IOI:DethiDg for toblu:co ?" here ~t retl'eated. and au.d.dellly
&appeared. Profeuor Oedez JDeDtioDed thia new oc-
ourence, the aame day, to CoUDielloJ Era&b. wl&o wu
oneof&he four t.ruateea of~~'Dil\u...boaeboue
the 11i1ter of· the' deeeeaed ~ ;. and he immediately
took measures for the paymeut o£ ~ debt.
··. · Tbis inte~-,r ~ tQe' I!Phit having~ out so
I'Qeoeettullyf.. ~ S~er. w:as. ind11~ tQ l'emabt
-mth Oeder-the-followiJ)g;nigbt. as·it.was oonjeotured U&e
llpliit.·.w!I!Ctl'appear ~.·:wbiob·was IUao the caae•. ._t
iwi·ili.&hc!:monaiug,..Oede.r suddenly awoke; and·iound
ldi liliillvit.eil pst;: not, asformerly,..at .~e- pr"le,. ltut
ae•it,·cloae.~ tlut-1rhiW wall.·..Itdid..not,_lso"'""4rw!Mltl-r
tilbutthere lo:ag,!but •t.llp.and·down· tll~ IW.Ul' ~-il
cWroua;df~~·othllf:penoltw.&l·in)~ .bed;.
At·.IIIIIBth it. apptoacW the w.:.,Oil: Jrkich ProfWOI
Qidel'jc)g8ed·.ldafrinti·Seidler,alld.JMid.io ~·'0lni!
(Jaoe•)-. :The~ ~l.J· c;o~ JUmael4,.bm
....., aothing furthet!"u.m iD~.•ww.- and.~~
aeat after, ·Oedet~. •• Now it ....-s/' Thtlt ~
rilaed a. Cl:mili"cleable.:titne·»poa'.the: ~Ott, .awl
9ed:er. wu dilllla6cfiecl tllat .tho epim.ctid not remM.
laager. He.eeked ·aeidl61f ii: he.should aito.it;..lttM·.w
tma the IMtel'' wtiald DPt crmtontl; .ed:ae Ptofee8QI..~
cler Wd BOtb:ing further,·.. Seidler believtd he lrialled to
fall asleep again, this Seidler was aleo wiUiD1 to .4o1
when all at once, Oeder sprangup in the bed, laid about
lliDi. pu. Bll aides, and·with· ti drMd£Jl: voice·exclaimed,
"-Tiicm mut lene this place; &bOll. but: t:reu"Wed ...,
loJig eilougli; bait tboa ur~ to •1 too m.e,lie~m{~
316 0111 APPAal!'lOJIII, &c.
or give me to underStand what it il, by 10me obYioua
sign, and do not come here again.''
Seidler heard all this, but could ee nothing. Now
when Oeder had in eome meaaure compo.ed himaelf,
Seidler asked the cause of hia vehemence, and received
for answer, that the spirit came a second time, whillt
they were talking together, placed itlelf,fint ofall, bei:Re
the bed, afterwards came cloae to it, and laid with ita
whole body upon it. From this time, Profeucw Oeder
kept some one with him all night, and bnmt a Wldlch-
ligbt allo, which he had never done before. The efFect
of this Wlljl, that although he aaw nothing, yet he wu
almoat always awakened, after three or five o'clock, by
an uncommon sensation, or rather tickling, which Ieilia·
tion he asserted he bad never felt before. He deacribed
it as being like the feeling produced, when a penon il
atroked from bead to foot with a bunch offeathers. He
alao frequently heard a noise at the clothes preu, or a
knocking at the room door. But by degrees, both were
diacontinued, so that he believed tdmaelf rid of his guest
for the future; he therefore alept again alone, and bumt
a light no longer.
Two nightl puaed quietly overin thil manner; but
the third night, the spectre wu again there at the aceua-
tomed hour, although via\'b\'7 ~. \\\w\. 'v.• Ull,ll
31'1
in ita hand, with which it made strange motions ; it was
like a picture, and had a hole in the centre, into which
the spirit frequently put its hand. Oeder had the bold-
nell to say to it, " That it must explain itself more
clearly, otherwile he could not guess what it would have;
or if it were unahle to do this, it might come nearer."
The spirit shook ita head at both these requests, and va-
nished.
The same scen~s occurred several times, oven in the
presence of another proctor of .the college. After long
ruminating and inquiring what the deceased might mean
by these signa, so much was at length elicited, that a
short time before his illneBS, he had taken some paintings
in a magie-1antem fr!>m a picture dealer, on trial, which
had not been returned. ·The paintings were given w
the rightful owner, and from that time, Oeder continued
undisturbed. The professor communicated this occur-.
renee with the spirit to the Court, and to several learned
men, such .as the then Abbe Jeruaalem, Professor
Gebauer,in Gottinge~.and Professor Segner; and offered
to verify his testimony upon oath." ·
Thus far the narrative, as related in the "Museum
of Wonders." Now, can it be imagined, that this appa-
rition is also supposed to have been a mere deception of
the imagination 1 Atld yet auc:b, is the case, con.ttaq
118
both to conaoienee, better Jmowledge. and every inward
ceaviction. ltiuaaertecl, thatall whO aaw the apparition•
·merely imagined.-they aw it, an« th,at the pmdept M.
Hoefer'I arm swellediu COIUiecplence of this imagination,
wlaWit gua.rdiDg himHlf againet.deceptiou: that it waa a
mere delUiioll ol·~ ima8ination that.caused Oeder to
pen,at the ,qe~ due for.tobacoo~ aad to t:ake .measures
for the payment, andaliofor thesame reason, to sendback
the borrowed paintings on glaaa to the person to whom
they beloDgedlll Norit ia.impouible that a reasonable
man can be eeriOUIin.~tainiug such irrational opini-
.eae. But why. do peeple ueert IUCh nonsense? The
.aDMVer Ja, in order to overthl'Ow that dreadful monster,
eapentition;Jut u ·.if tlaat. were ~ aupemition, when a
peracm..eea,.an,d laean, and ia CODBcioua.in.every sense
of 10mnemarkable naturalphenollWlODr rationally.ex;.
amine• it, ud then :dlaWJJ inf'ereucea.from it ! tell me
.my eoflldllpoJariee,o.if this ia.auperatition 1 If.it is, then
all our great phylic~, chymista, :astronomers, and
aaturaiiats ve.very despicable, auperatitious people, for
tlaey.do nothing.elae than act thua. But I know very
well, where the ahoe pinches ; the just and logical con-
sequences which must naturally be deduced from such
an apparition, constitute thesuperstition, whichis dread-
~ ; they undeniably prov.e the duration of our being
after death, tog'ether. with the remembrance of the his-
tory of our earthly life; and.if to ~ be added equally
OX APPAllit'IOXI, ~e.
I
119
true and authentic apparitions, demonstrative proofs are
soon and easily prOduced from them, of the immortality
oftheaoUI, of"the certainty-of rewama andpunishmentll
af\er this life, ofmore elevated powers ·of being, of·the
truth Ofredemption by. Christ, ·in· & WOM, ·Of•the real,
ancien~ evangelical Bible•religion, by which the pseudo-
uiddeni christian, mechanical, and philosophical struc-
ture, which baa beenreared by a rationalism wom out by
luxuryand eft'enrlnacy, from the wretched atock of ideas
abatracted'from the visible world, is totally thrown down
and demolished. This is the superstition, whichis dread-
ed. Hence an·antichriatian spirit has ever been afraid of
apparitions ; in the beginning, it made use of them as a
bugbear, or abust:d them by the moet shameful .super-
stitions, ud now, having branded tllem with disgrace,
it denies them entirely. But nothing of all this shall
daunt ua from sea.ri:bing into, a:ftd examining these ver.y
110lemn, serious, arid·wholly incontestible evidences ·for
the truth ofthe Bible, and the ftligion which it teaches.
Doerien, it appears; was ablameless, upright, ·and
honest man ;arid yet he was notimmediately happy after
death. We will not on any account judge unchari-
tably ofhim, he may have soon afterwards entered into
the state of bliss : but·rather 1examine what led him to
show himself in thismelancholy manner. It is obvious,
that it arose .from small debts,.and the ftleuti.()n. ot: &<nne
320 OX Al'l'.A.RlTIOKI1 &e.
glas9 paintings; but how frequently do such matters ze.
main unregulated, withoutthe departed debtorreappear·
ingon that account, and urging the settlement of them ~
There must therefore have been something in Doerie~~:'s
ease in addition to this, and I believe I have fouod it in
the two unsettled affairs having filled hia whole aoul in
the agonies of death; on which account, probably, he
aent to his friend Hoefer, that he might requeat him to
arrange these matters, but in the interval, expired with
this desire. The impression ofit was therefore so strong,
that it kept the poor spirit back, in this painful situation,
at the very entrance, as it were, into the spiritual world.
Hence we see, how important it is, for the indhid-
ual to set his house iu order before he dies ; we ought
therefore to endeavour to arrange every thing, even tem·
poral matters, before we leave the world ; and if we have
been unable to do so, or have neglected it, it ought no
longer to be regarded of such importance, as to take
possession of our minds at the moat imporant crisis of
our existence. What we cannot then alter, we should
commit, with fervent and humble supplications, proceed-
ing from a submiSBive heart, to the all-overruling pron-
dence of God to regulate, and10 presen·e our moral cha-
J'GCter for us ; and then lay hold, with firm confltknce,
on redemption through faith in Christ, 10 that the idea
ofthis may fill our whole soul and our whole being; but
OJC Al'PA:al'J.'IOK11 &c. 321
let us beware ot tnmquilJiBin8'and comforting ourselves·
with whateve11 good we may poesibly have·done in the
coune ot our lives : if our aalvation ·iJ to be founded
upon this, we shall then be brought into judgment, and
our aiDa placed opposite to these good actions, and then
the cue is dreAdful, even as it concerns the Jrest ofmen.
luatead ofacting thua, we should strip ourselves of every
thing, ·and cast ourselves with the feeling and sentiments
ol the prodigal son, Uito the amts of the crucified·Savi-
our of ail men, long after him, with all the powers of
our aouls, and beseech him solely, through tree grace,
to receive us into his kingdom, even as the thiefon the
cross did ; this desire will then enable us rapidly to soar
aloft from our mortal remains, and then all idea of our
reappearing is at an end.
Mydear readers will now also understand thatpara-
ble ofourLord, whichisfound in Matthew, :x::x:. 11-13,
where the king came in to view his guests, and found
one that had not on the wedding garment. This was
one of those,who thought he ha.d a right to appear in his
own righteousness, in his wretched and filthy garment,
at the table where the righteousness of Christ is the wed-
ding garment, the only valid uniform.
The departed spirit, of which we are now speaking,
appeared in such a manner, as to be seen without the
y
32~ ~N AP~Ali,IT10NI1 &c.
developedorgan of pre18Dtiment, hence.there were aeve-
ral who saw him ; he wu either. •till too much a norice
in .the world of spirits, so that he waa ignorant how a
apiri.t can come into rapport with a personstill living, or
else he found no one that wu capable of it. It appears
ltowever, that he made attemptsatthis developement,for
he acted upon Hoefer, wpoae phy~cal nature could not
endure this iD1luence, for hill arm awelled, aod he no
m&re ventured to come n,ear the apirit. Oed~r, it ia tnte,
could bear this influence better, ud he came in some
• measure into connexion with him, but not .so that the
spirit could converse with him.
I beg that it may, be ·here,Qbaerved, that a apirit,
thus appearing, cannot hear every one apeak, for it is
destitute ofthe requisite organs; but where it meets with
any one,whose faculty of presentiment may be easily de-
veloped, it acts upon him, by breathing its thoughts into
the man's mind, which then communicate themselves to
the inward auricular organa; so that the hearer believes
he has heard the voice .externally. Hence it ia that
a person may converse with a spirit in the presence of
others, without their hearing the spirit's voice. All this
will be sooner or later comprehensible to us, because it
will then be natural to us. Nor does the apirithear with
ita ears, what those who are pre1ent B&Y ; out it reads it
in the soul of him, with whom it ia iD rapport, justasthe
OX APP.AB.I'l'IOMI, &c.
m.Petized som"namlinlist readS in the sonl of his mag-
netizer. I beg 'that· this may be duly obse"ed, and
then much that ia incomprehensible, will be explicable.
. .
In Oeder'1· c:aee it did not come to this, because
either hil pJiYSical nature 1raa di1Heult to.be broughtinto
rapp'ort, orthat the.spirit didnotyet rightlyunderstandit.
The creative faculty of departed lipirits, is again
highly remarkable in this instance. When Doerien
eonld not make himselfundlmrtood by words," he formed
a tobacco-pipe in hil mouth, and a magic lantern in hil
hand. Thete, it ia true, WeTe mere shadowy forms,
which 'hoWever be reH<felred Tial"'te by his imagination
and his wiD.. My dear readers; whatshall we nbt be able
to do, sooner or later, when in: the element ofheaven!-·
0 let us therefore give alldDigence, that we may be well
received there.
Oeder's conduct towards the spirit was harsh : he
reviled it as being an eril spirit, although ·he knew it
was the soul of IJOerien~ and laid about him when it ap-
proached ·him. All this was certainly tlie con~equence
of hil terror : bnt this apin resulted from a deficiency
in his principles. Had I been iiihisplace, I would have
said, " My dear friend, thou art under a mistake, trouble
thyself no longer about any thing earthly, it is not wor-
324 0~ ~P}>AJUTJO:MS. &c.,
thy of thy attention, let me .take care of that. All
that thou haat still ~ anange, we, thy friends, will
examine into aDd .thim· 11ettle in ncb a maDDer, that
every one shall be satisfied with thee ; and if tbeze
be any thing on thy mind, for which we C&DDOt make
reparation, apply to thy Saviour, who cq regulate all
things; fix upon ~. and upon him aloDe, all thy de-
sires ; in him alone thou wilt find reat ! The Lord blea
thee, and giTe thee peace !"
In this manner I lhould haTe actecl towazda the
spirit, and am persuaded, ~ ifnot at its 1im appear-
ance, yet finally,it would 'l¥&!e leftme·in agloDfied state.
instead of becoming darker. When a spirit approac:hes
so near a.s to do an injury to the bGdy, we must avoid it,
direct our minds to God, aad then say to it, in a friendly
manner, "Inthe name of Jesus I forbid thee from touch-
ing me."
I will now lay before my readen another narratiYe
ofan apparition, which hadalso something to adjust, that
was unsettled in the flesh, and then treat of those de-
parted soulswhichare doomed, in the unsearchable judg-
ments of God, to continue on the borden of this world
:md the next, as a warning example to the liviug, until
their etemal destiny be deeided.
' ON Ai>PARrtiOtH1 lfe.
The principality of Sax~Altenburg wa8 divided,
towards the end of the seve'llteenth cenan:y,. into three
pai'ta, one orwhich apperlafus'to Gotha, another to Saal-
feld, and the~ namely E"uenberg, haditS OWnregent,
wh08e f'amily lio-weTer'be~ame·extinct With Duke Chris-
tian; in the year 1YO'i• dn which; Haenberg was again
added to Gotha.'
. :'
This DUke Christian had a very remarkableappari-
tion, not ·long before hii death, which has all the testi-
moiiiee of hisf:oriw··authenticity iri its favor, and was
preaerYOO. fu one 'Of tlie Saxon archives, at least, where
It may probably still be ~d. · Itforms the·lOth arti-
cle in the " Monthly''1)isoours~ Oll'the World ofSpirits''
page 319;''pubtiahed at Leipzig, by &muel Benjamin
Walther; ·tn'1'l30o' :I will msttttit here '89 I find it in
tise work aboVe melitioned; .in the ·style ofthose times.
. .
"About the yar 1705, as Chriiltian, Dull:e of Saxe
Eisen~, who died!in April,. -I707; iras reposing upon
his coueh at -··.in ·his elo8et,:and occupied with a
variety of lpirit\\almeditations,·some one knoclied at his
closet d6or. N<!W' althongh 'the Duke'coUld not com-
prehend haw this cOuld ·happen; ai the guard ·and ·the
.other senants were in the anteehatiiber, he however
calledotit" Come in'! " onwhich,'a female figure, repre-
senting Anna, daughterof one ofthe Electors of Saxony,
126
entered in an aoeient-priDoely attire. · When the Duke,
who had railed himHlf np, aad ...- eeUed.with a alight
. trepidation, uked her what wu her pleuure t lhe u-
awered " Benotafraid, I amDO evil apirit, DO harm lhall
befall.thee." Oa whichtheDub DO loDgerfelt-any ap-
preheDiion, adiDquiredfurther, who ahe was t ahegave
him for &DI'Wer, " I am one of thy ance.ton, and my
husband wu the same that thon art now; ~name waa
lohn Cuimir, Duke ofSaxe Cobourg, butwe han both
been dead above a hnndred yean. " Now wllen ~e
Duke inquired further what lhe requ.&ecl of him, llhe
expreued henelf' in the Collowing manner, " I ha..e a
. requeeto mab ofthee..in.anyopume; anclin that~£
the Duke my·buabaDd;~ we were Dot lleCouc:iled
before our end, in CODiel}ueoce ofa quarrel between ua ;
although we botla died tr1lltiDg in the mezita of Jeau
Cbriet,; aad that ia,..thai thou e&et thia 'I'JeCODciliatil?n
between us, at thia time, which Godbaa appointed for u.
With reepect to myeelf. I am already in a •tate oi blea-
lednea, but I clo net yet enjoy the full·vil;ion of OQd,
but have·been hiibert.o ina lltate of .ailent aDd agreeable
repose :· but the Dub, who would not be reconciled to
me at my-death, though-he. afterwards repeAted ofit,
and left the world iD real though weak faith in 1eeus
Christ, hascontinuedhi~, between time.and eternity
in cold and darkne~B,.yet 110t without hope of salvation."
327
Now when the Dukemade many objections against
this propoaition, the apiritrefuted them, as inappropriate
and irrelevent, and aaid also, that aa soon as she entered
·Btto the eternal world, she aacertained that one of their
deecendaDts waa destined toailiat them inbringingabout
• ~ciliation, and she waa the more rejoiced· to find
thathe, tlte Duke, waa the instrument appointed by God
b this purpose. Finally, die spirit granted the Duke
• week f~r reflection, after the lapse ofwhich, she would
again appear at the same hour and await hiB decision, on
which she vaniahed from hie sight.
The Duke being on ~. of particular intimacy
with a learned clivU., •the ldperintendant Hofkunzen
who retided at Torpu, t'ourteen German miles disqmt,
with whom he waa wont to eorreapond, by express, on
spiritual, temporal. and even political matters, immedi-
ately diepatcbecl a meuanger to him, communicating in
wrimtg all the partioulare of the apparition he had seen,
110d deairing hia adviceand opinion, whether be ought ao
eompl:y with the spirit's request, or not. The matter
appeared to the divine a little suspicious, at first, ~d he
.,... inclined.to regard it ~ a dream : butafterduly con-
sidering the singular piety of the Prince, his extensive
knowledge and experience orapiritaal things, his tender
OOD8<Sence, and atthe I&IDe time, the circumstance of the
spirit's shewing itself in b~ day-light, when the sun
3!8
was shining, he made no acru.pleofreturning the follow-
ing answer totheDuke: that inao far as the spiritshould
not desire of him any superstitio\111 ceremony, or auch aa
were contrary to the word of God, and ifhe, the Duke,
had sufll.ci.ent courage ior snell a ttanaac:tion, he would
not advise him again4t fqlfijling the apirit'a wiahea. Yet
that he ought to continue in fervent prayer, and in o~
to prevent alldecept;ion, cause_the passageto his chaJJlbeT
and closetto be well watched by hia guard•anddomestics.
In the mean time, the Duke gave orders for the
ancient records to be seerched, and found that all the
spirit had said, was according to truth, so that even the
dress of the deceasedprincesa, and.that of the apparition,
agreed very minutely. Now when the appointed hour
approached, the Duke laid himselfupon his couch, after
having given strict orders to the guard before his cham-
ber, not to suffer a s\ngle individual to en~: and having
begun th11 d~y with prayer,. fasting, and singing, he
read in the bible, whilst waiting for the. spirit, which
made its appe~ance exactly at the aame hour as the
week before, and at length, upon the Duke's calljng out,
"Come in!" entered the clo11etin inita previous costume.
It immediately ask~d the Duke, whethedte had resolved
on complying with its wishes? on which the latter replied
that he would do so, in God's name, in so far as what
she desired was not contrary to the word of God, nor
·329
accomppied by any tbblg ofasuperstitious nature ; she
need therefore only tell him plainly how he was to act
in the·ma~ter.
Upon reoeiTing thia declaration, the spirit expressed
i&ielt' to the following eft'eet': "During my life time; the
Dab, my huaband. auspected me, thoUgh groundleuly,
of being tm&ithfal to him, becaWte I frequently conver-
aed in private with a certain Cavalier, upon religious
'subjects. On this account, he cherished an irreconci-
lable hatired to me, which was so 'riolent, that though I
auftlciently proved my .innocence, and even entreated a
rec!oDciliation on· my death-bed, yet he would neither
abandon hia hatred and BUSpiciod, nor reaolve to come
t.o me. Now, h&ving <lo11e every thing in my ·power in
the matter, althouglt I dmd in true faith in my Saviou,
and likewiae entered into ·eternal rest and peace, ye' I
do nothitherto8Djoy the full vision ofGod. Myhusband.
on the CODtral}'1 aa mentioned above, repented, it ie
tru&, after my death, of hie implacability towarda me,
and died atIeDgth, ablo intruefaith ; yttthe has continued
until~aow, between time and .eternity, in distress, .and
oold, and darkneaa. But now· the time appointed 'Of
God ie ·arrived for thlle to reco11cile ua, in this world,
with each other, aud'by 10 doing, aiel us in attainin«
perfect felicity." "But 1t'hat. lluUI I do in the matter,
or how ahall I act in itt" akod the Duke, and received
330 OW ADA..!TIOR8, &c.
this answer from the spirit : " To-morrow night, hold
thyselfin readi!leaa; and I uul the Duke will come to
thee; (for although I come by day, yet my haaba.Dd
cannot do so ;) and each ofaa willstate to thee the caaaes
ofour exilting quarrel: Thou ahalt then give judgment
which ofua ia in the right, join our banda together, plOt'
nounce the Lord'ableaiug upon ua, and aftenrarda unite
with ua in prsiUng God." Afterthe Duke had promi8ed
to do 10, the spirit disappeared.
The dayfollowing, the Dukecontiaued hisdevotion.
until evening, when he es.preuly commanded his guard
to let no one enter the chamber, as alao to pay attention,
ihhey should hear any one apeak. Hereuponhe ordered
two wax tapers.to be tighted ·and placed upon the table,
ad also the bible and hymn book ·to be brought, IUld
thUI spected the arrival.ofthe spirits. They madetheir
appeuance at eleven o'clock : t.m oame the princeaa,.u
belbre, u though aHve, and .again· stated to the Dulr.e
the ca111e1 of thm quarrel; thlll came al8o the apirit·or
the Prince, in his wonted princely dress, but looking
ftrJ pale and death-like, -and gave the Duke quite a
diftierent account of their disagreement. Upon this the
Doke gave judgment, that the spirit of the prince wu m
the wrong, to which the latter allo assented, and said,
" Thou hut judged right." .On this the Duke took the
eeld hand of the prince, laid it in the hand of the prin-
o• .&PPA.lliTIOlfl, c!tc. 331
cess, which poueued natural wumth, and pronounced
the blessing of the Lord upon them, to which they both
18id, Amen ! The Duke then began to ling the hymn,
"We praise thee, 0 God I &c." during which, it seemed
to him, as if both really ungwith him. After finiahiug
the hymn, the princeu 18id to the Duke, " God will
reward thee for thil, and thou wilt 100n be with ua."
On which, they both vanished. .-The guarda had over-
heard nothing of this convenation, except what the
Duke 18id, who, if I mistake not, died a year afterwardl,
and for secret reasons, ordered his body to be buried in
quick lime." Thua far the narrative.
, .. • : .Ji.a
This apparition furDiahes me with an opportunity
ofmaking several important:remarb. That Duke Chris-
tian possesseda developedorgan ofpresentiment, is clear
trom the circumstance, that only he saw.the spirib1 BDd
heard them apeak. Perhaps it waa ou accoant of this
natural disposition, and llso for other n11110DB1 wldoh I
will afterwards mention, that he wu chosen for thia
singular judicial procedure. The &ppei!IDDC8 of the
princess in her earthly clothblg, and the oireamataaoe of
her being still deprived ofthe:bliaaofthe di"riDe pDBHDOII,
notwithstanding her state ofreat: and inwud peaae, is a
proof that abe waa atill in HadM,. that the qamel with
her husband detained ber.thare, aDd that berim.p.at:im
waa not yet freed &om ewry ...nhly.boad. Slut had
332 . 011 AI'P.Alt.ITIOKI, &e.
alto done -rery Wl'Oilg in having intimate 'intercourse
with the Cavalier above ~tioned, however ·holy and
edifying his conversation might be ; for as soon as she
·wu aware that the:Duke.was: displeased at it, sheonght
to have avoided .her 1iiend eati_rely. Mark, my dear
readenI this ploua princess hacl to forego the enjoyment
·ofreal heavenly felicify·duringa-whole century, althongh
-she died iD true faith in .1esuil Chriat, and had' otrertld
recOilCiliation to the Duke, becau.e she had.been know-
iDgly the cauae of· his takiilg oft'enae. ·The intimafie
in&eteourse between persona of .different ·aexes, even
though it be of a religion natnre, is m:tremely dangerous
and requires uncommon circtuuapection.
When-
we iefleef.upon.the fate of the Duke John
Caiilmr, :we inllat-be'ltrm:k With amaiaement and awe.
:How dreadful! toeontif:l'lle.for a hundred yean together,
mcOld.aui darlmea, inwardly griev.mg at the supposed
infidelity. of the·prialaess, .without.any tliing to refresh
die lleDsea.in tbe wide.anddesert Hades, and God kno1n
in:what aociety~ or.e]sem noa,:aiJd C!Jn&equentJy alone!
He too· had died fu the faith of C~st, but nnreconeil~
with his spo'wie. It :was this faith,. that still held the
ane~ of his hope ; it wae the magnet, w.hlch at Iengtl
drew .him upwarda. ;And yl!t he'had repented of bia
implaCability 'before'IUs death.! . Mark well this moatim·
poi'tant poirit. We iDu8t be reconciled with every one,
OK APPA.JUI'IOKir &e. 333
Ibelore we leave thil world.; andifiteail ba done to-day,
.wemut notneglectit a momeDt. Remember ~he aolemn
wordl, •• Porgive u our trupauea u we forgive them
th&l treepsu agaiaat ual"
A 10111 that cherilhel the, atighteat·auimosit.y, and
tlba dUa feeling with it into.etemity, cannot be happy,
although, in other.napeca, the individual may have
hoeD.as pioul WI wthfal as possible. Bitterneae is
compleWly oppo11ed to the uature aud constitution of
heaven. The blood of Christ, who, on the cross, in the
midst of the most excruciating torments, exercised love
inttead ofbittemeu, oleanaea alao from thia lin, when
it floWI in our veins.
But howcau a departed spirit feel cold and warmth,
and be conscioua oClight and darkneae 'l
The spirit that was still attached to hil money, aud
aought to induce Cather and eon to remove it from the
place where it was buried, as related in the first part of·
thia ~ection, appeared by day, but emitted :fire from his
finger-ends, and felt torment ltlum augry or disturbedin
hia mind. It il probable that the ethereal hull of the
spirit, as long as it continues in the lower regions, in the
atmosphere in or above the earth, partakes oftho changes
3Dd modifications of the materials of light. If the ~w..
334
be atill underthe imlwmce ol. violeDt peuima, ~ ~
bear the day, withoat fee1iDg tbe moit c1readt'ul t - ,
becauae the particlu of lfPt are t.ha iD their .......
operatiou, and the puaioDI. would M the oata rr-it
a dame. E'ril apirita, however, ue DOt ,._..a't.r
night and clarbeu from thi8 ipiticm. The_..aldie
bleat and righteou.a, tha& live iD IOn 8llcl ......._ ilo
habit the upper ngiona, iR pun edler, where tllq •
no louger a6cted by heat, or colll. or d="nte= n.,
live in their eternal elemODt; aDd eujoy the ftJl.aell fA
blias.
It was a benefit to the apirit of the Priuce, that lae
was exiled into cold lmd darkuess. In the element of
light, his jealousy would have inflamed and tormented
him : that e'ril passion would have increased, and he
would gradually have become ripe for hell. It ia uton·
ishing how difficult it is, after dath, to delivered from
fixed ideas, and rooted pauiona. It is here, my dear
readers, here in this world, that we must mortify them !
Only reflect upon the case of thia poor Prince, who wu
obliged to wait a hundred yean, and was still unable to
to conquer them ; so that at last an extraordinary meua
was retorted to, to deliverhim from them, and asaiathim
forwards.
But it ia just these extraordinary meana tha& aets,
OK Al'PABITIOKI1 &c. 386
reaaon at work. Wu there then no beiDg in the whole
spiritual world, that could accompliah thia reconc:iliadon
between the princely pair! Why, contrary to the naCu·
f&llaws of the spiritual world, wu a li'ring penon of
the aame family selected for that purpoae 7 I am con-
vinced that this step wu likewise taken, by theee two
apirits, through error and mistake. Every back-roadinto
the visible world, from the in~, ia unlawful; and
when the Lord permita it, he hu hil I80nld 1'e880DI mr
it. 'Tis true the princes• say1, that onenteriDg eternity,
she was immediately aware that one of her deacend&Dts
would reconcile them, but this she knew through the
medium of her organ ofpresentiment, then entirely de-
veloped; we can ecarcely suppoee it .wu the politi•e
will of God, though it might be by hil permiaaion, be-
cause it was the only way that was left, in which thele
poor souls could obtain rest. I will explain myself
more clearly upon thia point ; for by 10 doing, I lball
find occasion, warmly ud eameatly to impreu upon &he
heart of my readers, a moo important •bject, which u
far as I am aware hu been very little eouaidered.
Let us suppose a very piou• and Jeuned DIAD, who
fills a public and important oilee, 8lld eo.ueqaently
enjoys r~;spect and infiuence; or a merchant, whole
business is extensive, and who ia rich; in lhort, all per·
sons in elevated aituatio111, whedaoz DQb.Jemen, rulers,
or ofwhateverdegree. We will aelect from tbneY.n..
ranka, a true chriatian, put ounelvea in hia place, aad
then examine our eeJJtimenta towards chriltiana ol 6e
inferior ~aea. The idea of a more elevated dipitf,
which we posaeaa, in the character.ofthe former, ,..m-
ally fi.xea i~ in our minda, without our peraei'Yiaf it,
it continual dormant, u loug aa an mferior ._ •
the reapect due io our rank ; we a1ao probably thew
ourselvea coudeacendbig t:Owarda him, and call him Jn.
ther; but aa IOOU aa,he oppoaea ua iD : any way, or il
in any mea&UJ.'8 deficient in ahewing that relp8Ct, whiell
we believe we have a right to demand ofhim, the above·
mentioned feeling ia immediately rouaed, and if we do
not creep, without delay, to the croas, and there arm
ourselves with meekness and humility, the spark imme·
diately ignites in our hearts, love ia extinguished, aod
the fire ofpride and revenge is kindled, so that we be·
come insulting, rmd offer up to hell and its prince an
acceptable sacrifl.ce. It afterwards requires a long time
until the heart, which has been aearched by this angry
flame, again becomes sqsceptible of the mild influences
from above, rmd is able to make the genns of charity
and humility shoot forth anew. If this idea be not to·
tally eradicated before death, and if, fixed in our mincb,
it passes into etemity, the enjoyment of full salvation
is utterly impossible: for there the order of r:mk is regu·
lated by totally different laws; the superior or inferior
OM APPA&l'fiOJ181 &e. 337
lbare oflo•e and humility, or, in a word, efaanetifieation,
detenninee there the degree ofdignity1 of office, and of
hoDour. There the ruler may meet the mesneat of his
10tJ;ecta ; the man ofrank, hia shoe-black ; the miatreas,
her poor waiting maid ; the rich man, the poor tattered
beggar, whom he hadoften diamisaed from trls door with
a hall-penny, in the pouesllion of eleftted dignity, and
clothed with honour. Now ifthe idea above-mentioned
atill exist in the individu~, it then takes fire inthe ethe-
real body, and burns with mnch greater vehemence.-
The flame of envy and wrath blazes up: the spirits of
the blest retire, and the poor spirit flies far off iJI,to the
deaolate regions of.Hades,in eold and darkness, where if
the man have died·in true faith in Chris!, his fire by de-
greea diminiahea, and at length, when the fixed idea ie
llDIIihilated, and the streams or love and humility have
quenched every part of it, he il elevated to a higher
sphere.
Aa mankind are at present eonstituted, birth, pros-
perity, riches, superior abilities, withoutany reference to
virtue or piety, determine the difference of rank. This
order of things is according to the Will of God, as far as
relates to the present state of existence ; and it ishighly
incumbent on every one to respect it, and conducthimself
in perfect obedience to ita laws : he that acta otherwise,
ia deserving of punishment. We have seen, during the
33& Olf Ul'A&ITIOJt'l1 &c.
French Revolution, what dreadful couequencea have rt•
suited from the abolition and destzuction of this order
of things. It ia, therefore, juat and right fur every oue
to demand that honour, obedience, and reapect, which_il
due to hia station, and that he be punished who (Hare.
garda it ; butthis must result aolely and aincerely from
a feeling of duty towards the laws of order, and bJ BO
means from the idea or the conllciousneu of oar on
greater worthineaa.
'
When a prince or a ruler becomes a true Cbriatian.
govema aa such, !lnd renders hia country and his people
happy: he haa certru,nly to expect a much more glorious
inheritance in the life to come, than any other mortal ;
for how much bas tho aoul of a prince to struggle with,
from his youth up ! how many dangers to encounter;
how many temptations to overcome ; how much to mor·
tify ! Now ifin all this, he be found faithful unto death,
how great will his felicity be, in the world above ! And
if we add to thia, what Chrillt pronounced unto him who
has been faithful in a few things : what will he not grant
unto him, who has been faithful in many ! Yet, not·
withstanding all this, his blisa will be much diminisMd,
if not entirely withheld, ifhe passes into the other world
with the idea of royal extraction, family pride, and noble
blood. All this mu&t be mortified in this life, and total·
Jy obliterated from the \\ca.tt.
ON APPA'IUTIONS, &e. 339
I fear, that in this point, both·the duke aJd the
princess, notwithstanding their piety, were defieient.-
The idea had become fixed in one or both of them, that
they most be reconciled by a person of rank out oftheir
own family. Inferiors were, in their eyes, not sufficiently
worthy for this purpose, and they had taken with them,
out of this life, a mistrust of others of their own rank.
They were therefore, on that account, obliged to wait so
long ; because it was not easy to :find any one in their
family, that might not be injured by the developemtlnt
of the faculty of presentiment, (and yet Duke.Christian
died a year afterwards,) and who possessed suitable reli-
gious sentiments for such a purpose.
But what was. the reason, why the good and pious
Prince Christian ordered his corpse to be buried in quick
lime? assuredly, that it might the sooner perish. But
why so ? probably because he believed, that both spirits
had availed themselves of their bod!es, which were still
uncorrupted, in order to appear; this he wished to avoid
. after death : but the good prince had no reason to be ap-
prehensive on that account.
I now come to those apparitions of spirits, which
the inflexible judgment of God has doomed to linger for
a long period upon the borders ofthis world and the next,
340
aa a warning example to tbe living, Wltil their eterDil
dettiny be decided.
A pious and intelligentcitit:en and tradesman iD t&e
town of-, wrote to me a few yeara ago, with auto-
count of a remarkable apparition, which occurred to oae
ofhia friend•; but notbeiDgaltogether clear on the111J..
ject, I will not now inaert iL On that occuion, lie
mentioned in hia letter, an affair which had happened t.o
himaelf: I aftenrarda begged him to inform me of t&e
particulars of it, and now relate them in hia own words.
"It waa on the 14th of February, 1800, that I en-
gaged myself, as a journeyman, to my dear and never-
to-be-forgotten maater --,in--, with whom I apent
two years and aix weeks, previous to my going to Swit-
zerland, and working at Bllale. Haring neveraeen aDJ
thing of apirits, except some faint treoel IJ'IIIIIU-IIIY·YVI--~
up, I was not at all afraid, either by da7 or bJ
but waa fearless at all times, aa wu alee
~-..
know any be:-
.e. I u::=::.e::. ~ It;J~. lLIW'~-~ r..;.r_.~~··-':..
it might se-e=, :: ~:t.. :~ :<::t.. "-' D::l-~ .::.~·:r-..:· ;:·.~
weeks pa5seC. en·::- =. :ii! n.~. ....-~ ::-<Jm.:~ !.: or-_
upon v!le occ~:.~·=- fr:-:::t. n:_r ~~"Uln.~ =• ::.-: :-·n::.
without ha,·ing t.U.~" ~"'l:f.I.I~- ~ ~mr:-~ =- r:~.F.r.:
we had, beg:;.n to ~~.;,. ~ s.i:.. ~ • :.:": ..r-
...:.
but let him once gr.. 1<.p --.r.,r.:.: ~• ~ .~::. 11!11: : •·..-=,-.
it will be otherwriit' ..-::!. ~..:.,... -! :•~ ~.,.;~~ n-..
him, or btogins to:. mU.o: ~; L:·~- ~-l:.Jt r~."I <::..r.-~
me, but I saidnothi!!?: !.--.-.-~~- ; ~~~... .a:• <:.·.~-: ....-1_
they were so much ~ •L ~-~ ".i- -.; :~ ok. ~-, s,·
one ventured alono: ~ ~ytl'i:!. i:ov.. -r.:::'!t'J•.: t ~- ..._
out of the queati?L I wu. ~ .,.,A. ~<•~!!" ~­
it was supposed t!s.!: !r~ ,. ~-
" This excited m-y I!:W'.1Ai:q' •.:. ~ W'A11~'"""! •/. tw.
ghost, or to hear~~ y.M:--'" V. r-A ?!''-"_,_,...~
so that I listened ~ t:.~ u.....:. I bll'-'!...~ '-"'-*"- .,.,.
certainty in the~. 1 ~ f.t.rJ.:r ,_,:~~~t •-=,,..
approaching; and I Drf~ f.d<~ ~ )0'-.u-.:
might occur in ~ .C Moo r. s~.r .i.lay~ J;-,-: ~
I went one night j.DI(, *= ~. .-Jk. .,~- ~ ..
noise began t9 b!: ~ .,v_,..,i: tiL t,w; f;w. -_.. ..-:
being up three~' a.v. ~h.r, aq. i..: ~ .:._._
and conseq.u:ntiy it.~"~ JWICt: •~:~o~r:~ .IMI.
been heard,) at 11nr.., ~ pa,·, .._,._.-r---.. '!
the room; jut • .-i.at ~ f'l8&- ~..... _. - -
342
totters about in old slippers, and .eeka to tread BeCIIIely
in the dark. Meanwhile, all the three journeymenwere
. in bed, and my bedfellow had slipped so far down under
the coverlet, that nothing of him was to be eeeu ; lliat-
ened however with great attention, and ~y bJeatbed
audibly. Now when this tottering motion hadproceeded
from the lower end of the loft, until it came immediately
over our bedplace, there was on a sudden, BUCh a dread·
ful fall, that our bedstead and the window• lhook. It
was just such a fall as when some one, with a ponderous
burden, had let a heavy sack fall upon the vacant fioor.
Meanwhile, the tottering steps continued for some time,
before all was quiet again. My bedfellow, who was ati1l
under the coverlet, now jogged me, and said, in a very
low tone, 'You understand now, why we mentioned the
Sackbearer to you?' ' Yes ! ansWered I, aloud, but I will
see him too, before I believe it.' •Hush I replied he, be
still, or else you will bring us all into some misfortune.'
I laughed, and was just on the point of stepping out of
bed, and going up stairs, but he held me, and begged me
by all means to be quiet and stay wi~ him. This I did
unwillingly, but resolved, when all were asleep, if the
noise were repeated, to investigate the matter further.-
At length we all fell asleep.
" The next morning, we told our master what had
happened in the night, and ,..ha,t I had reaolved to do.
ON APPAB.ITIONI1 &c. 343
He heard it without astonishment, and said with an em-
phasis peculiar to him_. ' I will explain the matter to
you. The disturbances,which you have heard last night,
are nothing new in this house, and were the reason why
my grandfather, many years ago, was enabled to purchase
it at a cheap rate. He was from M-- in H--, and
came hither during the time of his journeying. This
house at that time stood empty, and its owner, a man of
property, had removed from it on this account, and had
thoughts ofsellingit to the first bidder. My grandfather,
a pious and courageous man, took advantage of this cir-
cumstance, and went to buy it. The proprietor imme-
diately gave him the keys, that he might view the pre-
mises, but did not accompany him to see the house; and
disposed of it to him at a·very low price, at the same time
informing him, why the house was in such bad repute,.
and what had been said of it by his predecessors, name-
ly, that three hundred years ago it had been a monas-
tery of Capuchins, one ofwhom continues to haunt the
house to this hour, and disturbs people at night, parti-
cularly upon the fourth floor. The reason of this, no one
had ever been able to asceftain; but that he might still
perceive in the house the traces of a former monastery,.
as also in the adjoining buildings; for instance, monas-
tic paintings, choirs, aisles, former cell-doors, &c. &c. ;
and it' he would look behind the stove in the centre sit-
ting-room, he would find the year 156(), i.\\ """'""'-~\.\. \.'\\.~
844
room must first have been made out of a cell; (all thia
still remains, said my master, as yow. younelf may aee,)
but this did not hinder my grandfather from buying it.
Now we have heard from him, that a noise and a simi-
lar doWnfall has been heard in the house; but itwai·aot
at that time so frequent nor so alarming ; norhad he, or
hia family ever seen any thing; and the name of SW-
bearer had been given to the disturber even at that time.
During this state of thiDgs, my grandfather died, and
my late father succeeded him in the poueaaion of tbe
house ; the noise then became somewhat louder.
" ' About this time, a baker of the name of-,
occupit:d the lower floor. As thisman.was standing, one
morning before day-break, near his oven, and had juat
put his bread into it, he heard a gentle footstep along
the narrow passage, that leads from the great stone cel-
lar staircase into the house-part, where the baking oven
is placed, which announced to him the near approach of
some living being; and in reality, after a short pause,
he saw a long-bearded elderly capuchin, with a cowl and
rather dirty nightcap, c~nning towards him. But instead
of staying to hear what his business might be, he was so
terrified, that be ran into his room, locked and barred
every thing, and left his bread in the oven, which, as be
did not come out before broad daylight, was all burnt.
This was the fin\. time tha.t he had. beeu seen in tlJe
Olf APP.&.IUTIOJlS, &c.
house. Our landlord, the weaver, who lives upon this
ftoor, saw him also afterwards, in the same form, just as
he was stealingup the ascent from the third to thefourth
ftoor ; and it is on account of the frequent nightly dis-
t.b~es, that the journeyman weavers no longer lay
upetain near your bedropm, but prefer sleeping in their
workahop, however unhealthy it may be; and that room
atanda empty to this day.
"' This, said my good master, is what I am able to
tell you of the matter.' It was enough for me at the
time, for I knew that he was not in the habit of shooting
in the d&l'k, and that if he had not been sure of the mat-
ter,, he would have preferred saying nothing about it.
I therefore said, that I llhould be glad to see this capu-
chin alao. ' Ah, said they all, be not 'too bold! but be
warned by us.' I was nevertheless very impatient till
I should again have an opportunity of listening to the
noise: howeverit was not heard every night, but only
irregularly.
" At length, towards Midsummer, the late brother of
my dear master, who was a stuff manufacturer, andre-
sided on the ftoor below our bedroom, was taken ill, and
the worse he grew, the more violent was the noise made
by the spirit in the loft above ; so that I passed many a
sleepless hour in liatewng to ita supernatural motions,
·, I
I ;
I
346 ON APPARITIONS, &e.
sounds, anti falls. We told our master ofthis, who took
it this time more to heart, because be could not compre-
hend the reason, especiallywhen my comrade, who com-
plained ofhis health being injured, wanted to leave him.
I encouraged the latter as much as I could, and he did,
in fact, remain till the following Christmas. But the
illness of the dear departed --, increased, and iu faith
in the crucified Jesus, he drew near his happy end, and
entered into the joy of his Lord. ' I was present at his
decease, and shall never forget the ·impressions I then
received. I assisted in carrying his corpse into another
chamber, three rooms distant, where it laid until the
third day, when it was withdrawn from our view, and
sown in hope of a glorious resurrection. In the evening,
after having set up for several nights before, I went
with my comrades to bed, but I shudder when I think
of what then occurred, and the manner in which the spi-
rit made itself heard ; for scarcely bad we laid ourselves
down, before it again began to totter along from behind,
with slow and toilsome steps: my two cotnt'8des again
crept under the bed-clothes, but this time it availed no-
thing, for allheard whatnowtook place; for immediately
afterwards, it fell down with such an awful and horrible
cr!ulh, that made every thing shake again. I listened to
it attentively, and noticed, that fora few moments, there
was a death-like silence ; after which, I heard such a
piercing and hollow gtotm, M m~~ m~ ""-udder. It
OX APPAJUTIOJll, &c. 347
would be in vain to deecribe it; for I venture to affirm,
that no human being, nor any creatare could send forth
aueh a lamentable, melancholy, and appalling sound;
after this, it wna as if aome one who had suffered a
grievous fall, endeavoured grad~y to gather himself
up again, and yet was never able to get upon his feet,
but everon the point of rising up, broke down underthe
.burden, and after a short pause, again lay enfeebled on
the spot ; for now it began to get up, and then to slip
down again, and to utte;, mean while, the most dreadful
groans. In short, it was scarely possible for any one to
bear to hear it, and the same thing occurred the next
night.
" Do not imagine, my dear Sir, that this couldhave
been occasioned by wicked men ; for as I have said be-
fore, it was impossible for any one to do it, and not an
bldividual in the house would have gone up to the loft,
if the whole house had been given him for so doing, nor
could any person enter from without. After the funeral
of our departed friend, we told our master what had oc-
curred during the past nights. This pained him exceed-
ingly, he related the whole matter to the late --,•
• Both these well-known, learned, and pious divines are my
true friends, for I know that the former continues to be so, in
his state ofbliss, and the latter is still living and enjoys the di-
vine blessing on his labours.
\I
/
,
/
348 -OK j.pp.a.JUT10K81 &c.
member of the Consistory, as also to-, c
the court, and referred particularly to the last
disturbances; but they only entered ao far inb
ter, as to come to the wnclusion, ' That WI hi
brother had experienced such a happy transiti_1
mansions above, it muat have been very paii
unhappy spirit, to be obliged to linger here bel
a manner ; that his sighs andgroanaaeem toea
and likewise the extraordinary disturbance OJJ
aion of his brother's dissolution, but as it did
aelf be seen as well WI heard, it was inferred I
liverance was still remote.' This opinion ,
a~tiafactory, and partly distressmg to my de1
because in this way, he could not hope for any
termmation of the diaturbance.
" I frequently endeavoured, after thia, t
him to keep watch, during the silence of thE
the loft, to see if_the spirit would not ahow it.
was at length carried into effect. My maater,
I have before mentioned, and myself, sat there
till after midnight; but though none of us bJ
dibly, and were as silent as possible, yet it wa
silent in the loft ; and I believe that if we ha
till this moment, the result would have beei
It wu also resolved between my worthy maate
but pious comrade, aud ID'J~>eU:, t<l meet tb
349
evening, for mutual prayer, in order to supplicate the di-
vine aid in thia matter. The efFect of this was, that
although we neTer saw any thing, we were subsequently
1~ cllatarbed. HoweTer, I must notice one circum-
aauace with regard to our watching, thatwhen my atten-
tion and expectation, particularly tOw!p'ds midnight, had
been excited to the utmost, 10 that I was really vexed
that it was all in TaiD, I was the more surprised, after
comiDg down atairs, betwixt one and two o'clock, to hear
the lloUe again: Blld I muat say, that though J was con~
viJacecl on all sides, that a departed spirit was the cause
oldlese disturbances, yet by frequent watching, and go-
ing up. to the loft, I was only the more daring, and I
DOW' :resolved, more firmly than ever, to obsarve and
n.ten to it quite alone. One night, aa we were undreu-
ing ourselves, one of my comrades sighed and said, • 0,
if thenight were only past!' I said very coolly, • Huah,
when I am there, he does not stir a step:' but scarcely
were the words out of my mouth, when three dreadful
falls ensued, and the usual disturbances were continued
for a long time afterwards. My comrade said, ' Hear
me, L--, thou wilt yet carise us all some misfortune ;
do be quietI' I complied, for I felt that I had acted too
thoughtlessly. Another time, on awakening after mid-
night with the noises, I listened attentively to the spirit's
motions,·aigbs, &c. when suddenly, it seemed as though
the creepingnoise graduallyapproachedm!e'llam.b~t. ~"l,
1. I
350 ON APPAJI.ITIONI, &c,
~ d I
jl and I alao really hear the lock move. therefore rose
very gently from bed, fully expecting to get a sight of it,
and ran to the door, opened it quickly, and immediately
looked outinto the passage, but I saw and heard nothing;
however, as soon as I was again in my room, the noise
in tlie upper floor recommenced, and observing that all
about me were asleep, the time seemed suitable for exe-
cuting the intention I had solongcherished ; it was half.
past two o'clock. The unnatural hollow falls and noise
continued ; I dressed myself a little, as silently as pos-
sible, and whilst listening to the disturbance, considered
what I should ask the spirit, and say to it, in the event
of getting a sight of it. Having thus studied my part,
I went to the door again, and through the dark passage
.that leads to the upper staircase, which I ascended so
silently, that not even a mouse could have beard me.
In going along, I continued to hear the hollow falls and
the disturbance in the loft, and therefore hoped that I
'should this time succeed. On feeling the last three steps
before me, I bent forward, and placing one foot on the
uppermost, with a single spring I reached the loft, with
my face in the direction where the disturbance took plaee.
There I stood, but good God, bow awful, bow silent !
Never was I conscious of a silence more profound. I
looked hastily around, and observed, that in the left
comer of the loft, a grey shadow of about four feet and
a half high, lost itself behind the chimney, in a bundle
OJ( APPA.:&ITIOJU, &c. 351
of twigs. I ran immediately to the place, tore asunder
the twiga, but it was in vain ; I neither saw nor heard
any thing. I stood there a little longer ; but I must
confess a feeling of horror came over me : I was con-
llcious that I .had here to do with spirits: what I had
studied availed nothing ; I had also taken the precaution
to ann myself, but I might as well have left them in my
bed-room ; for ifthe mercy ofGod bad not watched over
me, my temerity might have coat me dear.
" I might have communicated to you many other
occurrences, which have happened in this house : but as
they are all of a similar nature, I think you will pardon
me. ifI don ot take up any more of your time with them,
I should be glad to have the honour and the pleasure of
hearfng your sentiments and impressions on the subject.
I have also subseqdently inquired how the matter stood ;
and om informed that it is still continued, although the.
noise is not so violent, as at the beginning of the present
century, and at the dissolution of the above-mentioned
departed friend.
"And now, dearand honored Sir, I have to request,
that although I can attest the truth of the above state-
ment, you will not include my name, or the names of
those I have mentioned in it, in any extracts you may
,
j
3i2 ON APPA&I'fJO!IS, &c.
make from it, having more than one sufticient reason
for not wishing them to be made public."
Such is the account given by this dear, intelligent,
and pious friend.
I subsequently wrote to a confidential friend, who
resides at the plaee, where these disturbances take place ;
this individual is a Doctor of Medicine, a learned and
particularly pious man ; and I begged him to inquire,
what had further transpired relative to the haunted house.
He went ~herefore, to a clergyman, still living, whom
the owner of the house had preYic:iusly co!!salted, as be-
fore mentioned, made enquiry. respecting the real state
of the case, and learned, that the spirit is still heard, and
predicts to the inhabitants of the house, events, which
are about to occur. I am sorry that I have not learned
more regarding this latter circumstance; but if I shonld
again visit the town, where the terriftic appariti<Jn is
heard, I will go myself to the house, inquire mismtely
into every circumstance, and. then commtinicate this as
well as any.thing else, which I may have learned or dis-
covered, to my readers, as an appendix t& this work.
The courage and resolution with whick my friend,
then a journeyman, proceeded in his inveetigation, are
astonishing. As a pious person, and one who had ex-
ON APPAR1Tl0lifl1 &c. 353
perienced the pardoning grace of God, whose intentions
were just and good, be bad nothing to fear, except then,
when he tore the bundle of vine twigs asunder, and thus,
probably, grasped with hia hands. the spirit's atmosphe-
ric body. Thi1 might have occasioned ulcerous and
dangerous swellings; but the spirit of the capuchin does
not appeat to me to be a malicious, but rather a deplo-
rable and deeply afBieted being, that may, perhaps, still
have the hope of salvation; consequently its atmospheric
body is not inflamed and pestilential.. But it may also
be the ease, that when under the appearance of a gray
shadow, it lost itselfin the twigs, forsook its body, and
returned to its element.
I wish that my friend, at the moment when he
sprang up the three steps into the loft, had seriously
placed himself in the presence of God, and addressed the
11pirit in the following manner :-" I beseech thee, thou
deeply suffering 1oulI in the name of thy Redeemer and
mine, Jesus Christ, to tell me what is thy wish, and why
thou thus troublest this house?" If it had replied to
this, opportunity would have been presented to go fur-
ther, and perhaps to have assistedhim in obtaining rest;
but ifhe had returned no answer, there would have been
nothing lost by it. If all apparitions and haunted pla-
ces were investigated With such a heart devoted to God,
and with so much courage, it would be found, that
2A
amongsta hundred, perhaps nillt!ty~nine were deceptions
and deltllione.
Mysterioua and awfulil the conduct of thilspirit:
it il a fact, which hal been long and generally acknow-
ledged, that spirits in astate of ltlilery' fret}\ltmtly .IJaaot
the spot, where, during their life-time, they haYe carried
on their revels, and ln unaubl&antial f'onnt, ()ftea ladtate
them after death, seeking in tllem, but in vain, all alle-
viation of their aufferingl ; they pant llfter the eujoy·
mente of sense, but are destitute of the organs for that
purpose; for the image• they form have nothing real
or satillfying in them. To this class of tpirite, wh01e
damnation seems inevitable, the spirit of the Capuchin
Monk does not belong ; he does not carry hil heavy
sack, hi order ~ amuse himself with it, or 110 repeat his
former pleasures, butrather that he may thus· make those
about him aware of his dreadful su1feringa, and will pro-
bably continue.to do 10, until he ftnda some one, on
whose faculty of presentiment he can operate, ·and thua
converse with him. liilactions are therefore loud com-
. plaints of his unutterable woe.
As it appears from thelatest intelligence, communi-
cated above, that he can now make himself undentood,
and is able to conYene with the people, I wish, on this
..·cry account, to heu {u.nl\t'l ~\l;tti.~ ~rding his
ON 'APPA'&IHOD, &c. 355
preeent atate ; it might, perhapa, be.·po-.aible to :ahow
him how he -might (;btafn rest•
.The })"lttnmiaiie he acts, is that of a man canying;
with-' di11C11lty, a heavy sack of· co.rn, and then either
throwinj the f&ck· do;m, beeauae·ita weight .becomes in-
tOlerable; br falling do1tn with it:ililrulelf. Hence he.has
beeii eaDed .,, The ·Sal:kbeuer." The reason why. he
actli'thitl part, may be explapied in two ways: it ispos-
SJ"ble; that tbttnllrly, m hiri life-time, he may have beea
guilty of defrauding in grain, and that he now aeeka to
acknowledge this sin to the living, aud give them to un-
derBtaild that they should pray for him; he perhaps also
continuei to remind them of his state, until he find aome
one, npo~ whom ·he can work, to whom he ean approach,
and be· able to state by what means·lie expects to be de-
liTered. But it is also po1111ole, that by his thus car-
rying, with so·mbeh difftcultY, this insupportabie_.load,
he~ oaly aeeka to ~make hia dleadful -auft'eringa .known.
ThUll,-the 'tl'eater his sufferings aDd ·torments are, the
heavier·are the rah. of the sack,. and the more weary hia
stepa. I therefore perfectly agree with the opinion of
the clergyman, that the happy death 6f the pious stuff-
manulaeturer, ·must have deeply peved the poor spirit.
n muat have painedJt:toiue;llhat the.aoul of the former
was; 'monectictely..after .cleaflh, coac1Wlt8d .by ugels to
thefeliaity ofha'M:I,;wbilit it bad:been obliged to en.-
356 ON· APPAB.U'IONI, &c.
dure eternal tormenta for centuries. But there is also
one thing more which I would notice, and that is, the
spirit was a monk, and it is well known, that those who
belong to their orders, have an eatablished maxim, that
no one out of the pale of the Romish Church can be
saved : it must therefore have painedhim exceedingly to
see an evangelical Lutheran, a heretic! at once received
up into glory; for during hia solitary confinement in thia
quondam monaatery, he had probably had uo opportu-
nity of divesting himself of this inhuman and malignant
prejudice.
It is remarkable, that the spirit made himself viai·
ble twice. in his monkishdress ; he was perhaps in hopes
of being able to speak with the baker or weaver; he
therefore assumed his customary habit, and made him-
self visible. But why did he not show himself to the
journeyman, who would so gladly have seen and spoken
with him 1 I answer, because he was afraid ofthis cou·
rogeous and pious man. The latter might also not pos-
sess the predisposition requisite to enable the spirit to
work upon him, and develop his faculty of presentiment.
It is incomprehensible why these kind of solemn,
appalling, and obvious testimonies to the continuance of
our existence after death, make so little impression upon
us. People fear them, as chi\O.u\\ d.() e.. b~bear, and
· &N APPARITIONS, &c. 357
there the matter rests. Insteadof reflecting upon them,
drawing important conclusions from them, and forming
the resolution to amend their lives, they relate these
ghost-stories as tales of amusement, and feast the imagi-
nation on the torments of their departed fellow creatures.
The great and the learned in the world have eyes to see,
and yet will not see, and anathematize those as unen-
lightened, that do see, and endeavour to make them·ap-
pear ridiculous and contemptible. 'J;'he Lord pardon
them!
Before I go further, I must notice another singular
circumstance, and express my sentiments upon it.-
.Many authentic appuitions have been related to me, in
which spirit, have been unable to rest, nay, some even
for centuries together, btmause their bones, the remains
of their mortal frame, were not properly interred or
.brought into the churchyard. And this is the case, not
only with us christians, because we regard the church-
yard or burying. ground as something sacred; but there
tTe instances, even amongst the heathens, of reappearing
spirits entreating a regular burial, and complaining, that
they eouldnot restuntil this was done. Pliny relates an
instance of this, in one ofhis letters; in which he says,
that a bouse in Athens badbecome'notorious, on account
of its being haunted: that a philosopher questioned the
spirit, and was told by it, that it could Mt 'te~t, \l.\.\.t\1.\.t'~>
358
remaina were regul4rly interred, ~~ing, at the WDf
time, the place where they laid. Mter ita requeat bad
beeu fulfi11ed, the house became quiet.
All demanda of thia nature, which are made by
apirits, originate in miatal!:en notiona ; they are ideu,
which have been fixed in them at their departing hour,
and which, after death, torment them like Iurie... Per-
.Ona who die in their carnally-minded atate, atill clean
with great affection to their bodies; and if they take
with them, I would almost 8ay the superstitioua idea,
that any thing depends upon a funeralaoleomity, or the
place where the body corrnpta, they certainly will be
unable to rest, until their wish is fulfilled. But even
this very fulfilmeat hinders their further advancemellt,
because their mistake haa not been removed, but rather
confirmed. In this caa~t, the demands of such a 1pirit
must not be complied with, but it mus' be set right,
particularly by being told, that the bodie1 of the moet
eminent saints have been burned, and theiraahes ac:aUer-
ed to every wind, or have been devoured by wild beutl,
and disgraced and mutilated in l:arious waya ; and that
all thia doea not diminish their felicity in the least; that
it ought rather to be aolicitous to find reat at the true
source, and trouble Itself no more abQut the miserable
earthly clod.
Ol'!' APPARITION81 &c, 35~.
Here I CADJlOt refraiQ from giving a hint of some
importance. To a regenefate and sanctified christian it
may be amatter of indift'ereQ~ what is done with his
earthly remains; but how few there are of thi11 descrip-
tion I :Sut let ua only consider what a cam~ly-minded
unaanctifi~ soul must ,siJffer afu;r death, if t})e ~dj.vi­
dual have been execu~, by being hung, or l;lroken up~n
the ~heel, or have come to a shameful end in anY: ot4er
manner1 or when the bodiel! o( poor people, are taken
to the dissecting room, and there mutilated in varip~a.
ways ; anl'l how m~y depart this life with feelings <>1:
poignant grief, because they know that their bodies will
be afterwards given for diasectjon I I am well aware,
that the poor creatures err in this UU!t~r ; l,ut char;ity at
least o1,1ght to indu~ us, ~~ly tp inter the b0die~ of
malefactors, according t9 ·the Mosaic law, and this ought
reasonably to be done after dissec~on. · ~ometim.es it is
the case ; but still skeletons are prepared and parts pre-
served, which are either made use of in th~ CO\lfse of
instruction or for public exhibition.
The most important, most remarkable, and DJ.o•t
mysterious apparition of all, I have reserved to the last;
and with it I will concl!lde the pr:e~ent work. I refer to
the well know11 appari~n of the WAite Lud!J, as sh~ ia
c~ed.
360 011 APPA'Rl'llOlfl, &c.
It i1 a matter of almo1t univenal notoriety, th3t a
female figure rather tall, and clothed in white, has been
seen in several castle1, for inlltance in the castles ofNeu-
huas in Bohemia, Berlin, Bayreuth, Darmstadt, and here
also in the castle at Carlsruhe; she wean a veil, through
which her face can just be distinguished ; she generally
appears in the night, not long before the death ofone of
the reigning family, although many of~ die, without
the spirit's appearing. She sometimeti al10 foreshoWB,
by her appearing, the death of those who belong to the
court, but not to the reigning family.
Merian relates, in the fifth volume ofhls " Theatre
of Europe," that she was frequently seen at the castl~
in Berlin, in the years 1652 an!l 1653; but what entire-
ly confirms me in the belief of· this apparition, are the
two following testimonies.
It is an ancient tradition, that the White Lady bas
been seen by different individuals, in the castle of Cads-
rube, and the fact is also believed by intelligent people;
but the two following instances of her appearing, decide ·
the matter. An illustrious lady went one evening at
dusk, to walk in the garden of the castle, accompanied
by her husband. Without the re~otest thought of the
White Lady, she suddenly saw her, very plainly, 11tand-
i11g ncar her on the patb., 110 tb..a.t oa\1.e ~:.~\>.\~"~~"t1 \\.\'1>\.~~t-
ly perceive her whole ~~- ~.:e- T1:l -:~_....;- ~­
sprang to the other ai'.!e tJf ~ ~ :11 To,-·- -::.-
White Lady vanished. 'P-::3 ~~ :m:I-:-.:.-.;o..
told me, that his lady ~ ;e:JC: ~ T.:-..: ~ ::-~
and her pulse beat m!'!"!:~!- S:~ ~::.:!. •-~"
one died, belonging tl) t!te Xf1 :%::::;.
I have the eeeoad FY.( :!=:: ..*!1 &. ~YL-! ~:~ ..,._.
learned man, who fills a~~:~ :~ r. -:::& "~ ·:.:-.
and who is a valuable rr~ -L ~- ~"~ ":..
.P." ~~
knows him will testify. ~ wn i:!lt ~.ill trr: -::r
smallest idea of ~ ~ ~ 1~A'-tL. ;'":.~
gentlema wu pusiug, <:.-!!ie ~~ .::ar..~. ~-~ !1!.·
ofthe loYiies of the~-~~ m. m·: im:.'!
of the killd, when the "'Wh:2 ~ =:~ "1":... r.-... r.r.:.
At first, he believed it.._~ ~L ~ K..ilo:-t -.1 -:~ ~­
that wished to terrify him~ ~ ~ !~~ '~ ••
the figure, in order to by ~~r;.r. 1i 1':. vu: ~ 11"'1 ,..,.._
eeil"edtbatitwastheWhitet.a-::r. i~ tit#. •-.r::•il~ -~
his eyes. He observed her p:-'"~-: 1~ •.-.r..,~ , .,.,..
remarlt the folds in her nil, aa4 -iu:-~ .r. ,_ ·.·.r.r.-
tenance, whilst from within ller, ~; ~nr; .i'f.'r ~
to glimmer.
She was alto wont to be ~ tiwlt.. -!1.-- ~-- ·J' +.4'
three principal church feetinll. s~ ~~~-; ~·~:t"'-· "
the night, but is likewise frequent!J-.:1 :.n -~.., ·••.-. ~~-·
362 OX APl'AillTlOMI, &c.
It was at the castle of Neuhaus in Bohemia, about
three hUDdred and fifty years ago, where abe wu fin&
seen, and that very often. She was frequently observed
looking out at noon day, from a window at the top ofaD
uninhabited turret of the caatle. She was entirely white;
had on her head a white widow's veil, with white ribbou,
was tall of stature, and of modest deportment. She wu,
of course, during her life-time, of the Roman Catholic
Religion ; for three hundred and fifty year~t ago, no other,
was known. There are only two instances of her haviDg
spoken. A certain illustrious princeu wu atandiDg ia
her dressing-room before the looking-glass, with ooe ol
her maids of honour, in order to try on some article oi
dress ; and on asking the lady in waiting, what time it
was, the White Lady on a sudden stepped forth from
behind a screen, and said, "It is ten o'clock, my deara!"
The princess was dreadfully alarmed, as may easily be
supposed. A few weeks afterwards, she fell ill and
died.
In December of the year 1628, She appeared. abo.
in Berlin, and was there heard to say the following word&
in Latin: "VENI, JUDICA VIvos ET )toRTuos: JUDICIUM
MI111 ADI!l'C SUPEREST !" that is, "Come, judge the
living and the dead; my fate is not yet decided!"
0:\'f APPAR1Tl0Jr81 &c. 363
From the many and various apparitions ofthis spirit,
I will only select another, which is particularly remark-
able. ,
At Neuhaus, in Bohemia, there is an old institution,
which provides that on Holy Thursday, a mess of sweet
pottage should be given to the poor, in the court-yard
of the castle ; this mess consisted of some kind of pul-
poua fruit, with honey, after which, every one had as
much small beer to drink as he desired, and besides
thia,_ received seven P~etzel. Many thousand poor peo-
ple often assembled on this day, and were all feasted in
thii manner. When dle Swedes, in the thirty years
war, had subdued the town and the castle, and neglect-
f!d the diltribution of thia JP.eal to the p~or, the White
14dy began to be so violent, and to cauae such a di~
~· that the inhabitaJlts of the castle could no
IQII&ei endure it, The guard was dilpened, beaten, _
~cl tlu'on to the ground by a secret pow:er. The cen·
tinels WC!fe frequently met by strange figures and mere
vil!ages, and tl1e officers themselves were dtagged, by
~igbt, Qut e{ their ~. along the floor. Now when
no means could be devised to remedy this evil, one of
the towna-people told the Commander-in-chief, that
the poor had beep deprived ¢ their yearly feast, and
advised him to let it be im)Dediately prepared, according
364 ON APPARITION81 &c.
to the custom of their predecessors. This was done ;
the disturbance instantaneously ceased, and nothing
more was observed.
It is certain, that ~he White Lady is not yet in a
state of blessedness ; for in that case, she would no
longer wander about amongst us. She is still less in a
state of condemnation ; for in her countenance, nothiug
but ·modesty, decorum, and piety is manifested; aud
she has often been seen to be angry, and assume a tbreat-
ning aspect, when any one has made use ofblasphemous
or indecorous language against God and religion, so
that she has even used violence towards them.
· But now let us inquire who this remarkable and
mysterious being is. She has been taken for a certain
Countess of Orlamunda:; but I find in the " Monthly
Discourses on theWorld of Spirits," from which I have
extracted the above account, a remarkable key to this
affair: the celebrated and learned Jesuit, Baldinus, gan
himself the trouble to ascertain, with certainty, the truth
of the matter, the result of which is the following very
probable history of the White Lady.
" In the ancient castle of Neuhaus, in Bohemia.
amongst the pictures of the ancient and celebrated family
ON APPAB.ITIONII, &c. 365
of Rosenberg, there was found a portrait, which bears an
exact resemblance to the White Lady. She is clothed,
after the fashion of those times, in a white habit; and was
called Perchta Von Rosenberg. The history of this
lady's life is brie:fl.y as follows. She was born between
1420 and 1430 ; her father is said to have been Ulrich
. the second, Von Rosenberg, and her mother, Catherine
of Wartenberg, who died in 1436. This Ulrich was
Lieutenant-governor in Bohemia, and, at the instance' of
the Pope, Commander-in-chief of the Roman Catholic
troops against the Hussites.
" His daughter Perchta, or rather Bertha, was mar-
ried in the year 1449, to John Von Lichtenstein, a rich
Baronet, in Steyermark. But as her husband led a very
vicious and profligate life, Bertha was very ~nhappy.
Her marriage proved a constant source of grief to her,
and she was obliged to seek relief from her relatives.
Hence it was, that she could never forget the insults and
indescribable distress she ~ endured, and thus left
the world, under the influence of this bitter passion.
At length, this unhappy marriage was dissolved by the
death of her husband, and she removed to her brother,
Henry IV. The latter began to reign in the year 14.'ll,
and died without heirs in 1457.
Lady Bertha lived at Neuhaus, and. bvi\t \\\.~ ~~,.-u.~
866 01( Al'PA:&ITlOMS, &c.
there, which occupied several years in building, to the
great grievance of the town'a-people. Lady Bertha,
llowever, spoke kindly to her vassals, and consoled them
with the speedy termination of the 'frork, and the due
payment of their services. Amongst other things, ebe
generally called out to the workmen, • Work lew 700r
muten, ye faithful eubjecta! work! when the eaatle ia
finilhed, you, and all tour families shall be feated wicb
sweet porridge,' for ao our f'orefathera espreued them-
selves, when they inrited any one to be their guest.
"Now, in Autumn, when the buildingwaa finished,
Lady Bertha kept her word, by treating all her subjects
with an excellent repast, and said to them during din-
ner, 'In consequence ofyour loyalty to your liege lord,
you shall cyery year, have such a feast aa this; and thus
'
the praise of your good conduct shall flourish in after
ages.'
"The Lords of Rosenberg and Slavata, found it af-
terwards more appropriate to transfer this beneficent and
charitable feast to the day of the Institution ofthe Lord's
Supper, on which day it is still continued.
" I do not find at what time Lady Bertha Von Ro-
senberg died; but it was probably towards the end of
ON APPARITIONS, &c. 367
the fifteenth century. 'Her portrait is to be met with in
several Bohemian cutlee; in a white widow's dress,
which e:xat!tly oonesponda with the appearance of the
White Lady. She is most frequently seen at Raumlau,
Neuhaus, Trzebon, Islubocka, Bechin, and Tretzen,
which are all Bohemian castles,inhabited by her descend-
anti, and u individuals of her family married into the
bouaee of·Brtndenburg, Baden, and Darmltadt; she is
also in the habit of Visiting them, and wherever she
eomes, her object is to announce an approaching death,
pethaps also to warn against some misfortune, for she
often appears likewise, without any one dying."
My ideas respecting this mysterious being, are as
follows :-The circumstance of Lady Bertha dying unre-
conciled, and with bitter animosity against her husband,
is probably the chiefreason of her melancholy wander-
ings on the earth, and of her being still at such a dis-
tance from the enjoyment of heavenly felicity. Could
she open the springs of love within her, her state would
soon· be ameliorated, for her other qualities, particularly
her bene:6.eenee, induee me fo hope, that she will even-
tually find favour. From this benevolent disl'Osition,
her apparitions proceed ; for as soon as she observes,
through the medium of her organ of presentiment,
which in her present state is completely developed, that
' '
368 ON APPA.IliTlO)II, &c. ·
any one of her family willlhord.7 die,IJ,le appean IO.lely
with the intention,·t;bat aueb plnou '/Day be brought to
reflection and prepare for death I aDd 81 DO ODe knowa to
whom it has reference, all ought therefore to be induced
by it to salutary consideration.
The White Lady doea not seem to u.perieoee lllf·
Cering or torment, for all the tcatimoniea CODOU' in tiUI,
that she is ~nquil and cheerful, but acill not in aS"'!
of bliss ; a condition, which however tolerable in odie:
respects, is certainly not deairable. She has apparently
laid aside the Romish religion, becauae abeia eo amicably
inclined towards Protestant families. Her benevolent
disposition, however, is exeq:ised erroneously; for all re-
tro-action upon the living, is contrary to the divine order;
and the words which the mouth of truth has spoken, "If
they hear not Moses and the Prophets, neither will they
believe though one rose from the dead," continue irrever-
lliblc. Seldom or ever is any one converted by an appa-
rition; the result is generally a mere panic; but what
appears to me incomprehensible, is, that all the undeni-
able facts ofsuch appearances, ofwhich the number is so
considerable, have not even been able to produce the firm
conviction or certainty of the immortality of the soul.
I know instances of professed Freethinkers and
OX .olPPAB.ITIOXS, &e. 369
Materialists having pOait:lftly seen spirits, so that they
were convinced it wu tbf·10111 of oae of their deceased
acquaintances, and yet they continued to doubt of their
own immortality and aelf-consciousness. My God, what
incredulity! •
I could relate many more authentic tales of appa-
ritions, bQt the above may suffice; as they are suffici~nt
to prove what it waa intended they should. My sole
object is to bring the real truth to light, so far as it re-
gards our eternal destiny ; and by so doing, win souls for
God.-Amen !•
...
4
• See Note't'.Z.
2B
870
CHAP. V.
•JliXF SUMMARY OF MY THEORY OF PNEUWATOLOG~,
AND INFERENCES PROJI IT.
1. The whole creation consists solely of essential
realized ideas of the Deity, or pronounced wordso!God.
I call these ideas· original existences. No being, except
God, knows them all, and none is acquainted with their
true, real, and peculiar nature.
2. Amongst the infinite number of these original
existences, there are various classes, which are fully
conscious of themselves, form ideas of other original
existences, and possess reason and freewill : to these
belong spirits, angels, and men.
3. Wc mortals are totally unacquainted with the
mental powen, that \1>, tb.e i:~~:.ult'i of imagination,
-
... -
thought. ...tj -1"''**"6 -'. '%re- ..aL. K IItlE ~ «
rational~--~ I · q a~ 111Z: ~
•. b IE'~~ ...... ---~a: IICA%1.
to any a..."~ V. ~ ~ .lL Ill?" m.-- ~­
than l:hJ..p w ,..pjmr .. DIE' :fwe; ....... d.~-
5. If-.y ~ w 2llllie .A. mr 11Jf111111a fL -=---
or their ia:WZ'Ii U!""""" a ~ liE ..._ 1L
things. -a willa~ VII:' .i;m,.-
. . . ---1i6:rar.:
for inmnce, if'..-~ -..a 1i ......,~-~
forms,1igua. ....,,.-....., ami~ ...wi .-,lit'
dift'erad;; -a.--.e iiwa.wil:il aLi:i-a-hPt-.
6. ~ dat ~ m= 4 tl!lpDiMci "' ~­
selves. ba aa ~ dili:teall .iOa of OU!" W(I!'L ~
what we& -it~ ~SI.i,r. taar. ~
idea we.._of 2lle ant:j;m, ad all tat ~. ...a
kncnr1edge - - . fmaa them, ~ emist:iy lljllnJ
7. God rie1n erery 1!lirlg ali it i£ ill itbei!, a&G .d.
reality, oat oftilDe ad.~ Fw if he "-foCi~~
in ~pace, -a a .o llJ*Ie c:&1l lie tlODC:eived a ~y ~
iatiug, aaJe:. Jiaif.ed: die T.irwa ..:mch God~. Wiluld
thaebe..,- w Uich .. ~· ~
3i2 BRIEF IUK:IIART,
quently no space exists out of us in natnre, but our ideas
of it arise solely from our organization.
8. If God viewed objects in succession and rota·
tion, he would exist in time; and thus again be limited.
Kow as thia ia imposaible, time is therefore alao a mode
of thinking peculiar to finite capacities, and not any
thing true or real. Bnt we mortals neither can nor ought
to think otherwile than in time and apace.
9. Animal Magnetism undeniably prrivea, that we
have an inward man, a soul, which ia constituted of the
divine •park, the immortal spirit, poueaaing reason and
will, and of a luminous body, which is inseparable from
it.
10. Light, electric, magnetic, galvanic matter, and
ether, appear to be all one and the same body, under
different modifications. This light or ether, is the ele-
ment which connects soul and body, BBd the spiritual
and material world together.
11. When the inward man, the human soul, for·
~akes the inward sphe~, where the senses operate, ...
1neNiy coRtUwcs the 'f'ltal functiam, the body falls into
an entranced state, or a profound deep, during which,
; I
BJllEI! SUJoltiAJlY, 373
'he soul ads much morefreely; powerfully, and actively,
all ita faculties ·are elevated.
12. The more the soul is divested of the body, the
more extensive, free, and powerful is its inward sphere
of opeiation. It has therefore no need whatever of the
body, in order to live and exist: the latter is rather an
hindrance to it; it ia exiled into itt dull and gloomy
prison, because it is its medium of communication with
the visible world, of which it has need in its present
state, in order to ita ennoblement and perfection. ·
18. The whole of these propositions are sure and
certain inferences, which I have drawn from experiments
in animal magnetism. These most important experi-
ments undeniably shew, that the soul does not require
the organs of ~nse, in order to be· able to see, hear,
smell, taste, and feel, in a much more perfect state; but
With this great difference, that in such a state, it stands
in much nearer connexion with the spiritual than the
material world.
14. The soul, in this state, has no perception
whatever of the visible world; bu~ if it be brought into
reciprocal connexion (rapport) with some one, who is in
his natural state, and acts through the medium of his
corporeal senses, for i~stance, when the latter lays his
374 BRIEl' SUIOIASY.
band on the pit of the heart of the former, it beeomH
conscious of the visible world through him, and in him
is sensible of it.
15. When the soul is in this exalted state, it cer-
tainly exists in time, because itcannot do otherwi8e than
think in succession : all finite spirits are in this situation,
so that th~y only reftect upon, and form an• idea ol oae
thing at a time, but they do uot live in space.
i 6. Space is merely the operation of the material
organs of sense; out ofthem it has no existence; there-
fore, as soon as the soul forsakes thelatter, all proximity
and distance ceases. Hence, ifit stand in rapport with
a person who is many thousand miles distant from it,
it can impart knowledge, by an inward commonieatiou,
and receive it from such an one, and all this as rapidly,
as thoughts follow each other.
17. This operation of one human being up011
another, would occasion dreadful confmlion in the pre-
sent state of existence, if the doors ofthis mystery were
easy to be unfolded. But the Most Merciful has ren-
dered this not easily possible. The continual increase
of knowledge in every department, joined with an in-
creasing falling away from Christ and his most holy
religion, will howe"l'et e"l'el\\\l.\\.\.\1 ()Ca.ai.on these barrien
BRIKI' B1l'IUIAaT,
to be burst, and the Holy of Holiea to be plundered ; but
tlten the measure ofiniquity will be full. Woe unto him
that publishes to the world things so sacred!
18. When the soul is separated from the body, it
is wherever it thinks to be; for as spaceis only its mode
of thinking, but does not exist except in ita idea, it is
always at the place, which it represent• to itself, if it
may be there.
19~ Time being also, in fact, a mere mode of
thinking, and not exis~ in reality, the departed soul
may be aosceptiblc offuture things, but only in so far as
the laws ofthe apiritual world permit.
20. By magaetiam, uervous &orders, long con-
tinued eft'orta of the aonl, and by other secret meane, a
penon who baa a natural predispoaition for it, may, in
the preaent lite, detach hia aonl, in a greater or leu de-
gree :&om ita corporeal organization; and in proportion
aa tJu. tabs place, it comea into c:ontact (rapport) with
the world ofipirlta. I eall that, by which it becomes
au.aceptible ofthe objecta ofthe latter, it.a facnlty or or-
gan ofpn.aeatimnt, and ita cletachment from the moet
refiDed part ofthe MrYOall ayltem, its developement.
21. It ia a ctmue ad iueva.-ble law, that man-
..
376 B&lJF JIVIIIUB.Y,
kind, in the present.11taw,lilhould be guided with ft!1PeCt
t9 te~poral and sensible tliliaga,_by.just and Jatioaal ia-
ferences, the. result of a sound understanding; but with
respect to those things which are above sense, by the
Word otGosl,an41inbQth~ether, by divineProftdeuce.
22.. FQr -.s ~me, IQI.d space are- oaly JDGdM fi
thinking suited to .the. present state, but by whicll we
are unable to comprehend original existences aa they
really are : it is impossible that rational inf~rencea,
though .!p.athema.tically just, can serve to guide ua into
the trp.ths :of the inyisible.world. w.heJl their pmmilea
areJound!ld -oQ. .lJlPde$;qf;t.binkiug.adapted to t1le ~
world. Hence ari~. DP~ . but h.onid contl'adicti0111
and pernicious errors ; aud this is just the case with the
ratio.naJism.of the prellent aay, .in refexence to spiritual
things.
2a. If it be therefore a divine law, t.bat mankind
in the present state should be guided in temporal things
by teason, and in those .which are spiritual and di'rine,
'solely by the Holy Scriptures, and in both by Provi·
dence, and if we ought not to know any thingof the fu.
ture, except what God of his free favour reve.Js to us,
without our own endeavours; it is undeniably a heinous
11in, when any one seeks to develop the faculty of pre-
lentiment, iu otdet to leam ~ future or remote, or
JIIUEI' SUJUIA"B'f, 377
by connexion with the apiritu~ world, to become ac-
quainted with hidden myateries.
14. Ifa pel'lon obtains a developed organ ofpre-
eentiment, entirely without his own wishing or seeking
it. either through illness or any other not sinful cause,
be ia in a dangerous state; for it ia amazingly difficult,
aDd requiiea a high degree of divine light, to avoid the
ab11118 'Of a thiDg so extremely attractive.
16. When a far advanced and enlight~ned christian
f'alla into this state, he attaches no value to it; on the
contrary, he humbles himaelf before his God, and fer-
ftlltly jmplores wisdom and protection against the abuse
of it. · Ifhe then comes into situations, where he thinks
he may be of acme smice, he employs this disease of
the IIODl for that purpose, in the fear of God. See the
examples of Mrs. W. and M. Cazotte, in the chapter on
presentiments.
26. When an unconverted, worldly-minded man
developes hisfaculty ofpresentiment, he fiills into danger
ofidolatry and sorcery. Preachers and physicians ought
therefore to instruct the ignorant upon this important
point.
~7. Thereia alae another weighty reason, why the
378 .IUEI' ltJKKA&T.
development of thefacolty ofpretentimentis claDgeroua;
for by it 1pirit1 have opportunity ofinftuenciug the iadj..
ridual, presenting all kindl ofimage• to his miod, aud
inainuating thoughts into it. Now, u the whole atmol-
phere u full ofevil 1pirit1, and only 1uch u am partially
good, the former being on the alert to deceive men, u-
der the guile ofaagell of light, and the latter in emr
themselves: and u the aoul, whillt in ita ileshly priloD,
has not the gift of b"ying the l!pirits, the man may be
dreadfully milled; and here u the very 10~ ofmuch
fanaticism, here~y, and of many abominable erron.
28. Real presentiments, that i•, when ProYideace
causes a man to be wamed of some impending miafor·
tune by the ministry ofangela, ought to be well dittin·
guiahed from a develo~d organ ofpresentiment. The
former has always come suitable object in view, the lat-
ter generally none at all.
29. The case is the same with the gift ofprophecy,
which must also be clearly distinguished from the deve·
loped faculty of presentiment. The former has alway•
some sublime endin view for the good ofmankind, whilst
the latter often prognosticates funerals, and thingl ofno
importance.
30. The boundlen eiliet, t\a.t filll the apace of
I" -
.tve ...c ~
-
...~
~art~:.. 4iJJr.:l: ~ ::r ~ -- ~.-~~- ;...- ~­
:he~tt"~~ -- ~ ~----·.tr...:...
lie iam -...~ e:a,. ~ .r-~ -.;io.<..· _._. .__
)(tl!B~ ~ mt. ~- ~ ;- ;;- ........,.,._
ndlr62t-
SL ~---..- ~ ~,.....,_._,., __
:to..--=---w:~ ~0·-~ ...............
they lilllili- ~~ lit---=·.,..___.......__.._ -
:ellllle --~
ft.. T.-s. a.- -- *-'--...ss t _ ,__.
it8dl«a -
...~ .... --.s. s ~ :::____ . ..........
,. -~~~- ........... ,..........""""
........ . ~_......,_,., ~
.taa~~----~· ~· li'•
tsoqpai!lpzr ==·--~ ..,._,,g:;... ::---
rite-~ IIJil:aa-.: ~- ~
oe.ia..:.. t.. ;-.,.. ' t ..:fie••· .....,..~
10111---~........~,....... ~ .....
auer 3 w,--.....:c:o illll:-. ~·- • ._ .-
:erior fJl ......... .....- - • .- , Hlillll< ,.
he .-lfJI...................,..,..
380 BB.JEI' SUXll.uLY.
34. " Where your treasure is, there your heart a
.als9." Souls that are not yet dead to the world, zemain
below, in the regions of darkness; and if they have
served fleshly lusts, their abode iB with their bodielJ in
the grave••
35. The souls of all such, as have only led a
decent civil life, and who, though not vicious, ue
still no true christians, must undeJgO a long'purification
in the waste and desert Hades, by enduring the depri·
vationofall that is dear.to them, and ofevery enjoyment,
whilst longing, most painfully, after that earthly life,
which has for ever fled ; and thus be gradually pzepmd
for the lowest degree of bliss.
36. The souls ofthe wickedon dep:uting from the
body, are surrounded by evil spirits, that torment them
in various ways, the more wicked they have been, the
. deeper they sink into the bottomless pit. Their sutfer·
ings are dreadful.
37. The souls oftrue christians, that ha\'e trodden
the path of sanctification, and who expired in the e:xer·
cise of true faith in Jesus Christ, in the grace of his
atonement, and in complete renunciation of every thing
earthly, are received, immediately on awaking from the
sleep ofdeath, b-y angela, -a.ud 'lri.tb.11ut delay, conducted
upwards to the pure regions of light. wh~ they ~;c.y
the falness of bliss.
38. Departed eoals hue a creati-s·e pGYer, whlcll
during the present state, mel in this rude aud n::l~.al
world, can only be exercised with trouble and expeme,
and in a very imperfect m3D.Der; bot after death. the
will of the soul is really able to produce that, which the
imagination conceins.
39. Those souls, which are not yet dead to the
world, and whose imagination is still oecopied with the
favourite ideas of their former life, seek to realize these
ideas ; but after all, they are mere atmospheric forms,
which are unable to afford any enjoyment ; the soul ill
also as little capable of enjoying; it has no longer any
of the organs of sense. Hence the notorious haunting
of old buildings, where these wretched spirits seek to
renew their former reyeJs.
40. There is no foundation in the nature and laws
of the spiritual world for the doctrine of trnnsmigrntion.
A soul may pan centuries in Hades before it advance
any fluther, but it never returua into a human body.
The spiritual world has lllflleient means of purification :
there ia no need there of a return to a life of sense,
382 BB.lBI IUIIIIAILT•
41. When the soul departs out ofthia life with 111
unsatisfied desire, it experiences painful aufreriDp,
although it might be otherwise capable of heavenly fe1i..
city. To be delivered from these sufferings, it often
longs for some one still alive, who may fulfil ita delire,
and employs the means, which are known to it, to gain
its end : hence the apparition of spirita.
42. Every one ought therefore to divest laimlelf
betimes, and the sooner the better, of all attachment to
earthly things; and should any thing occur to him iD hil
departing hour, that ought still to be done or arraupl.
and which it is no longer poBBible to do, let him COIIIDii1 ·
the affair to Him, who can make good every thing, and
continue in this confidence even after death ; for hia re-
turn and reappearing ia contrary to the divine order.
There may, however, be exceptions to this rule; and it
is an indispensable duty for those to whom a spirit ap-
pears, to treat and inform it better, with seriouanesa and
charity.
43. We can learn nothing from spirits that are
still in Hades, for they know nothing more than we do,
except that they see further into futurity; but tbia we
ought not to know. Besides this, they may err, and
wilfully deeeive. We ought therefore, by all meana, to
$Ct'k to avoid intetcouue w\.\h. \h.em. S\!irits in a state
B:kl:BP SUIUlARY, 383
of perfect bliss, or such as are really damned, never ap-
pear.
44. Every man has one or more guardian spirits
about him: these are good angels, and perhaps also the
departed souls of pious men. Children are attended
solely by good spirits; but as t~e individual gradually
inclines to evil, evil spirits approach him, The good,
however, do not forsake him on this account, until they
see that he is hardened in sin, and become entirely re-
probate: they then depart from him, and leave him to
his awful fate.
45. As the individual turns from evil to good, the
good spirits draw near to him with great delight; and
the more he increases in faith and sanctification, the
more active and beneficial do they become. Good spi-
rits have power over evil epirits; but the will of man is
free; if it incline to e;vil, the good cannot help him.
We ought not to seek intercourse with guardian spirits,
for we are no where referred to them.
46. The sleep of th~ soul, or that state in which
the soul is supposed to rest in unconsciousness and in-
actinty, from death till the resurrection at the last day,
has no foundation in sc~pture, but merely in·the erro-
neous idea, that the soul necessarily requires its body in
B'RIEP IUIIJ&AtLY,
order to act; but as magnetic experiments, and the ap-
paritions of spirits .incontestibly prove the contrary, tbe
sleep of the soul is an error, and entirely out of the
question.
4'1. It is an evident and manifest truth, thatthe
so\).}, when deliveredfroni the body, acts more powerfully,
and freely, and that ita powers are much superior, thaa
whilstimpriaoned in tbe body. Why thenhas the C..
exiled it into this limited.and lamentable state f
48. The answer is easy ; because ithas fallen from '
that perfect state, in which it was created. In paradiJe. 1
man stood connected with both the spiritual and the
material world, and was sensible of objects in both.•He
ate of the fruit of the tree of life in the spiritual world,
and ought to have avoided the tree of temptation in the
visible world, but he sought to unite them bothtogether.
If eternal love had not ejected him from paradise, ad
excluded him from eonnexion with the world of spirib,
he would have become a de\-il. Excuse this mystic in·
tct1Jretation : it detracts nothing from the truth of the
relation.
·1~. · The soul io~ in a 'state ofrestraint in its cloth-
ing of skins, its cumbersome body, which it must su-
tain with much trouble, and because of which, it hal
UIUJ::F SUlU,IAJ!.Y· 385
lll!l~h to sul!er. lnlltea4 of ~~~g able to sn.tiafy its hun-
gtl" after knowl!ldge nn<l happinea,, ·t~e organi~ation of
ital>ody djlccivea it with im}lerfect ide~, and tranai~Jl'
enjqym~tll, which only walte i~ lJ,1p1ger till' more ins,-
~~le.
50. Here the ~lppr ~o t4c gren~ p1ystery ofredflmP-
tiP.n ~y .:;hri11t is unfql!}cd. Tjte soql would not have
been 14YC4, even iu t4is state. It might have b!!e~ lcs~
injured in the WQrld of spirits; but this did not satisfy
eternal wve, which destines it to be re~}eemcd a~d bl!l~t,
and made more h~ppy than it wo]Jld havfo! beep, pad ~~
never fallen ; if it will now but fol)o\Y and ~ pbcdient
to the counsel of Gncl.
at. The LOGOS, the Word of God, by wpoJll the
eternal, bidden, and almighty One manifested himself
in 'n en<lless numerjc;U progression and succe11sion, ~t
is, in .time, became I!lan ; and by his sufferings, death,
and resurrection, made his flesh and blood a lea'fotn, by
which, every soul that feeds upon it in true faith, is re-
novated, and after being delivered from its earthly pJ'i4op,
it translated into the regained heavenly clement, until,
after the resurrection, it p)lts on its original glory, and
ia placed in a paradise, il). comparison with which, th~
~~t wu a mere shadow.
2<.'
386 BRIEF SUlUIA&Y._
52. 1-'rom all that has been said, it ill clear, that
~laterialism, with its metaphysical illumination, is a
mere, but very dangerous creature of the brain, a bound-
less and bottomlllss deception. Superior illumination
in the sciences and-in the knowledge of nature, in so far
as it alleviates our earthly thraldom, and has influence
upon our progress to perfection, is laudable and useful;
but with respect to that which is supernatural, and con-
cerns our return to our eternal home, we require the
superior revealed light of the Word of God, and the
enlightening of the Holy Spirit. Furnished with this
enlightened reason, that lunar orb in the darknea ol.
this life, may then point out the right path.
53. Real bliss commences first at the resurrection,
when the glorified body, fashioned after the likeness of
Christ, shall be again united to the soul ; and the com-
plete man will then be organized, both for the glorified.
visible world, and also for tht! world of spirits.
5·1. Paradise is that part of Hades, which is ap-
}>Ointed for the preparation and abode of souls in a state
uf ~rracc. It forms part of the third heaven. (2 Cor. xii.
2-1.) Now Christ said to the thief," To-day shalt thou
he with me in paradise." (Luke xxiii. 43.) but Christ
w.1s iu Hade~, lwlwecn his death and resurrection, (1.
f BlllEF SUllllMA&Y. 38"7
Pett>.r, iii, 19.) and according to John, (xx. 17.)he had
not ascended to his Father, immediately after his resur-
rection. He had therefore been in Hades, in paradise,
•here the vision of God is Rtill wanting.
55. Real damnation commences first at the resur-
m:tion : the resurrection-germ of the body of sin will
then be united with the soul, and the whole man be
banished into the bottomless pit, with all the evil spirits,
the centre of which is the lake that burneth with fire and
brimstone, and which is in the centre of the body of the
earth, The Lord, the merciful, who is P.verlasting love,
preserve every reader ofthis book from this dreadful fate !
Amen.
. .,, ;,
.;..
(.· ...
: ._,·...:
NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR.
Nots 1.-The Bible,from begiDllingto end, asserts the operation
of1Upe'iuatnral iniuence upon mankind, and the connection that
aobaista betweenthe visible,and the invisibleworld. As evidences
of this, it relates a variety of instances, in which beings from
the world ofspirita have outwardly shewn themselves to man, and
held converse with him. Even Jehovah himself, in the second
peraon of the Godhead, frequently condescended to manifest him- ,
selfinthismanner, previous toBSSuming ournatnre, and becoming,
in the person ofJesns Christ, like unto us.
In both the Old Testament and the New, angels, in the execu-
tion of their errands of judgment or of mercy, frequently made
themJelves visible, But because, as our author repeatedly re.
marks, the re.'appearance of departed spirita is contrary to the
divine order, there are only two instances of the latter in the Old
Testament; both which are, however, very striking: the one is
that of the prophet Samuel, of which copious notice is taken at
page 207 of thiswork: the other is the very remarkable apparition
recorded in the book ofJob, chap. iv. verse 12-17, which, as it
!Jlay not be familiar to .every reader, we here insert:
" Now a word was addressed to me in secret; and mine ear
received a little thereof.
2 D
390 :11101'18.
"In thoughta from the viaiona of the night, wlleu deep lllllp
(a)Jeth onmen,
••Fearoame upon me, and trembling, which !Dide all mylloDN
to shake.
"Then a spirit pUMd before my face: the hair of my W
atood up: '
"It atood still, but I ooald not diaoern the form thereof: 111
image w88 before mine eyea; there wu li181108; and I heard •
•oioe, 18ying,
"Shall mortal mau be more j'Oit than God'; lhalla manbe_.
pure than lda Makert"
Intbe New Teatament, we fiDel that Mo1e1 and Ellu tappeanlll
.on the mo'IDlt ot tran.etlguration: but it may be objected, tbll
Mosel 88 weD 88 Eli88 wu probably alteady clothed with tm
glorified body, 88 were alao the 18inta that roee from the dead at
the reaurrection ofthe Saviour, and appeared unto many. (lllatt.
:uvii. 51, 53.) But although this body be 1881 apiritual than
that ofthe aoul, yet it is also naturally invisible to mau, and ill
manifestation consequently belongs to the order of apparition~
from the spiritual world; wlaich we are persuaded wu also the
case with the body of our Lbrd after ita reaorrection; for it pot-
aeseed the peculiar properties ofspirit, in becoming invisible at
pleasure, and entering when the doors were shut. This ia alao
confirmed by the recital, which is given us of his appearing to
Saul, on the way to Damascua; For those that were with hila.
though they heard the voice, yet they saw "BO man. (Acta is.7.)
In the Old Testament, there is also pointed allusion made to u
inferior olasa of apirita called "familiars," and to the forbiddt~~
Intercourse which aome b.e\d. with them (aee Deut. xviii, 1~
1~;. Isaiah viii.19.) 'We <lo uo\\\o"ff<~~'le't ~"i\."'""'l ~"'"»>
Bible of their personally appearing, Dot' ofthe fallen angels being
·permitted to shew themaelvee, unle&l we suppose that Satan
-med a visible ahape, when he ~pted our Lord in the wil-
demeaa, whichis howeverdoubtful: and eventakingitforgranted,
we mlllt atill conclude that he coi1C88led himself under some
1pecious form, and endeavoured to·disguise himselfto the utmost,
for our Lord only addr- him in his realcharacter, when atthe
lut he·~pted him to fall down aud worship him.
Tho11e who.profeaa to have aeen evil spirits, aBinn that in their
Datw:allhape they p~nt a moDBtroua appear11Dce, which occa-
sionally bears a retllllllblance to some speciesof tha brute creation.
:Nor i1 the idea at all irrational; for having, by their wickedness,
bt the image ofGod, they have also lost all affinity to man, in
ao Car aa heis atil1111111imilated to the divine image. It is likewise
~orthy of notice, that the Scriptures 1peak of Satan under the
appellatiou ofthe old •erpent, the great red dmgon, &c.
N.n• !.-Plntsrch, in his works, has preaerved a mo1t remark-
able vision of the world of 1pirits, which may tend, in some
111881Ul"e, to illustrate the idi!U which the 811Cient Greeks formed
ofit. It is as follows:-
"Thespesios of Soli Jived, at first, very prodigally and pro-
4igately; but afterwards, when he had apent all his property,
neeeaaity induced him to have recourse to the baseat methods for
a aubaistence. There was nothing, however vile, which be
abetained from, if it only brought him in money; and thus he
again unassed a consideroble sum, but fell at the &lUIIe time into
the worat repute for his villmy. That whil:h I:Ql\\n'\'1-a\IIA ~--
2n~
Mn"U.
- ' to this. -a pn!dietK. ol dae sod Awphiloehu: for haYing
applied to thia deity to !mow whether be would speud the l'Ht of
hia life ina better - r , be recei"red forUIS1rer, •that he would
IM!'rer mend till be died.' ADd eo it rnlly happt-ned, in a certain
M!Ue; for DOt loag aftennrda, be fell down from ~ eminence
apoo hia oeck, md though he reeei"red ao wound, yet 'lae dioed in
coa&eqwmce ol the fall. But three days aft.enrarda, when he
was about to he interred, be Neeim strength, md came to him-
.U. A woaderfel c1wage DOW toot place in hia conduct, for
tile Ciliciau !mow 110 ooe wlao at that ti.e was - coosci-
eatiou ia bui-, den~at towuds God, tanible to hia foes, or
faitht..l to IUs &ieDda: ., tUt tlaoM wllo auoc:i.a&ed with him,
wished to leG11 the - ol thia c:haDge; jutly IAI}JIIORDg that
Ada - alteraliGI ol coodaet. froa dae ~ bueDess to
MOria... 80 DOble, coald DOt haft cc.ae ol iblelf. And 110 it
really was, a be m-lf'related to Prot.ogenu, aod other judi-
c:ioaa frieDda.
"Wbea hia ratiooal_.lei\ the body, he fehlike a pilothurled
om ol hia .,._. into the depths of the sea. He then raised
lUmeelf' up, md hia whole 'being lleeiiU!d oo a sudden to breathe,
aod to look about it Oil enry side, as if the soul had been all
ere- He RW DOthiDg ol the pnrrioas objec:ts; but beheld the
eDOniiOU.S 11tars at an immense diRance &om each other, endowed
with admirable radimce, md uttering wonderful sounds; whilst
his_.glided geudy aod easilyalong,_bome by a stream of light,
in e"r&ry direetion. In his nanuin, he passed over what he
RW besidee, md JIU!rely said, that he percei"red the souls of those
that were jWit d~, rising up from the earth : they formed a
I~ kiad ol 'babble, md when this burst, the soul placidly
- forth, glorioaa, and in hliiiWI ~orm. The 110ul&, howe.-er,
NOTBio 393
had not all the same motion: some soared upwards with won-.
det1ul. eue, and instantaneously ascended to the heigbta above:
othei'B whirled about like spindles; sometimes rising upwards,
and sometimes sinking downwards, having a mixed and disturbed
&lOtion. He was unacquainted with the most of them, but re-
cognized two or three of his relatives. He drew near to them,
and wiabed to apeak with them, but they did not bear him, for
they were not wholly themselves, but in a state of insensibility,
and ayoiding every touch : they turned round, first alone in a
circle, then 1111 they met with others in a similar condition, they
IDOTed about with them in sll directions, emitting indistinct
tones, like rejoicing mixed with lamentation. Others, again,
appeared in the beigbta above, shining brilliantly, and aJfection-
ately uniting with each other, but teeing the reatle88 souls .
abo~e deBCribed. In this place be also saw the soul of another
of his relatina, but not very perceptibly, for it bad died whilst
a child. The latter, however, approaching him, said, •Welcome,
Thllllp&aioa !' On his .anawering that his name was not Tbes-
pesioa, but Aridaioa, it replied, • It is trne, thou didat formerly
bear that name, but henceforth thou art oalled Thespesioa. Thou
art, howenr, not yet dead, but by a particular providence of the
gods, art come hither in thy rational spirit ; but thou hast left
the other soul behind, as an anchor, in the body. At present, and
in future, be it a aign by which thou mayeat distinguish thyself
from those that are reslly dead, that the souls of the deceased no
longer cast a shadow, and are able to look stedfastly at the light
above, without being daszled.' On this, the soul in question
conducted Theapeaioa through sll parts of the other world, and
uplained to him the mysterious dealings and government of
Divine Jll.8tice; whJ' many are punia\111~ \n \h\~ "\'l.'i'~>, "'""~~
394 NOTUo
others are. not ; aud showed him also nery apeoiee of puilh·
ment to which the wicked are subject hereafter. He Tined
every thing with holy awe; aud after haTing beheld all this u 1
Bpec!tator, he waB at length &eised with dreadful horror, whea OD
the point of departing; for a female form, of WODdroua BilleIIIII
apJMI&'P:ce, laid hold of him, j118t alhe wall going to h&Bteuny,
and aaid, • Come hither..._in order that thou mayeet die '!letter
reaamber every thing!' And with daat she drew forti! a llll!'lliDr
rod, such as the painters aae, when anotller hindered her, ad
delivered him; whil&1 he, as if sudclenly impelled ~ lly 1
Violent g&le of wind, aank beck at onee illto m llocly, aacl -
to life again 81 the place of inte!lllent.'•
Note 3.-The narrative :related alton, gives u.s an e:~~ample of
a voluntnry detaeh.ent of tloe soul from the body ; bat tloe ill-
atance we ve now about to 1111bjoin, ia one ol an ,,..,,_,..,
detachment, and therefunt the more 1wprilling.
Tile late Rev.Joa. Wilkins, disseRting minister at Weymo~.
dreamed in the euly part oi his life, a very remarkallle ttre.,
which he carefully preserved in writmg as follows:-" OM
, night, 100n after I was i11 bed, I feU asleep, and dreamed I wa
going to London. I thought it would not be much oat of my
way to go through Glouceetershire, and call npon my lrielllla
there. Accordingly I aet out, but remembered 11othing that Up-
pened by the way, till I came to my father's house, where I weal
to the front door, and tried to open it, but.fonnd it rut. I tlleB
went to the back door, whleh \ ~eu~, aud went in; but ~
aJI the familvwere in 'becl,lwen\l!Al'l-~<~~Nb_.~,,.-.,,
ftain,1Uld ~ntered the chamber where myfather and mother were
in bed. Aa I went by that aide o.
f the bed in which my father
lay, I foUDd him uleep, or tllought he W1l8 ao; then I went to
~!'other aide, aDd juat turned the foot oftile bed. I found my
•tiler awake, to whomI said tll818 worda, 'Mother, I am going
a long jolU'Jley, end I am come to bid you good-bye.' Upon
which lhe IIIIIIWered me in a fright. • 0 dear son, thou art dead!'
With ~ I awoke, and took no notice of it, more thm a common
dnla, oaly it appeared to me very pedect, as BOmB dreame will.
But iD a few day• after, u BOOD aa a leUer could reach me, I re-
ceived_one by poat from my father, upon the receipt of which I
W1l8 a little1urpn.ed,and concludedIIOBlet.hing extraordinarymuat
llave J.ppened, aa it was but a little hefole I had a letter from
my frienda, and all were well. Upon opening it, I waa more
lllrpriaed·ltili, for my father addreued me u though I wu.dead.
desiring me, if alive, or whoaoever's hmds the letter might fall
in~, 11o write immediately; bnt if the latter should find me
living, they concluded I lhould not live long, md gan this u
&he reuoD of their feara:-That ou. 1uch a night, D&ming it,
lfter they.were iD bed, my father uleap, and my mother ~wake,
lhe heard 1101ne ooe try to open the front..door; but finding it faat,
he went to tile back-door, which he opened, came iD, and came
directly through the roome up atairl, and IM ;wr:fectly knBw it t.
it "'Y .up. I came to her bed.aide, and spoke to her these words, ·
'Mother, I am going a long jo1U'Jley, and am come to bid you
good-bye;' upon whioh lhe 11111wered me in a fright, '0 dear
1011, tlaou art dead!' which ware the very wordl' and circum-
NIIeell of my dr.m ; but lhe heard nothing more, and aaw no.
daiDg; uei.ther did I iD my dream, u it waa quite. dark. Upon
tJW • awoie mr &t.her, IIDd told \Ua w'a.-..\ ~~-..w\.\ "'"""
396 NOTII,
he endeavoured to appeue her, by pei'IIUading her it wu OD!y a
dream : ehe ill8iated it ;88 no ~. for that ah11 wu u per·
fectly awake a1 ever she was, and had not the leut incHutioa to
1leep since she had been in bed. From theae eire~. I
am apt to think it was the very same instant when my d-
happened, though the distance between us wu a hundred lllilel;
but of this I cannot speak poaiti.vely. Thia OCCI11miCl wbillt I
· 11'88 at the academyatOttery, Devon,in the year 1754, and atthia
distance oftime, nery circumstance is ati.ll &e.h upon my-...
I have since had frequent opportuniti.ea of talking over the afait
with my mother, and the whole wu 88 freah upon her miad 11 it
W1lll upon mine. I have often thought that her eeuati.ODS 11 te
thi1 matter were stronger than mine. What BOJDe may tmllk
atrange, I cannot remember that any thing remarkable UppeDid
hereupon. Thia is only a plain, simple narrative of a metter rl
fact."
Mr. Wilkins died the 15th November, 1800, in the 70th yev
•of hia age.
This very remarkable incident may be accounted for 011 the
principles laid down by our author, by supposing a natural pre-
disposition in the individual to thi1 detachment of the eoul,
aeeisted perhapa at the time, by accidental phyaical can-, ud
that he lay down to sleep full of the idea of a journey to Loa·
don, and the intention of calling at his Cather'• house oo the
way. Hence, when the detachment took place, he immediately
found himself at hia father'a house, and naturally tried to glia
admittance at the front and back-door; but had he been cooi!Cioal
of his state at the time, it would only have required the w:iah ia
his mind to be io his parent's bed-chamber, and he would ba~
immediately found bimM\hD.et<e. 'tD.ot.t.l!>U.,~-....~, ._\b!!r rir-
397
eumatance, whic)t according to all material laws, appears unac~
eouDtable; and that is, that his mother should have heard and
teCOgniaed hia step, ashe passed along the rooms to her chamber:
lor though we may have some idea bow spirit can act upon ma-
terial substances, yet it seems to require a collision of the latter,
iD order to produce the noise naturally occasioned by their strik-
illg together, which appears impossible for an immaterial body
aetmg upon material substances alone to produce ; and yet the
-trary was the fact in this case, and the solution must bo
1011gbt Cor in th0110 amazing powers of the will and imagination,
which in our present state are 80 restrained 1md limited, but
which, in a disembodied state are at full liberty, and much more
powerfaJ. an,d elevated. The individual, supposinghimselfawake,
acted u if he bad been 80; and this idea alone was sufficient to
aable him to appearin his natural shape and customary apf'arel,
and ill lhort to produce the eft"ecte described. This subject will
be found more fully developed by our author in the•subsequent
p8p8 of hi1 work. It leada however to the inference, that in
-.cted md ltriking dreams, there may be occasionally more
reality than the individual himself is aware of. In those that
walk in their aleep, the natural predisposition to the detachment
of the IOU\ is wanting, end hence the whole body is aet in
motion.
Stilling, in one of hia later publications, (Pocket·Book for the
:Friends of Religion, 1814,) relates a similar incident, which was
communicated to him in a letter from Baron Von Sulza, chamber- .
lain to the King of Sweden, dated S6derkopiug, 4th Dec. 181!.
The Baron writes 118 follow• :
" I bad been paying a visit to one of my neighbours, on the
Mth June, 1799, and returned home about un~:a\"t"\1.'1., '11.'1.""~\.~
!IOTU.
time it is so light in SwedeD, in the - - . that ODe CUI
read the smallett print. On arriving at our estate of .Du....t.dorp,
my father met me before the gate of iiMt court-yard, in bia CDI·
tomary clothee, with a 1tick in hi1 haad, which my brother had
ornamented with carved work. It wu 'fery light, ud I aaw
every thing clearly: I WILl not aCraid, for I really belle•ed it wu
ay father. I •lilted him, aad -•enedalong time with him.
We then went together into the bo11111, aad upon the level Boor,
into the room; on entering which I aaw :lllf fa&ber, quite UD•.
drelllllld, lying in bed, in a profound Bleep, aud the appuipon
had disappeared. He soon awoke, and reprdad me with aa in·
qniring look. ' My dear Edward.' aid he, ' God 'INt. thanked
that I Bee yoll again, for I wu Jllllch a:o.rbled oa yow acoonnt in
a dream; for it seamed to me that you W fallea iii&O the.wU!r,
Bllli were in danger of drowning.' I WILl· gnatly ut.oaUbed at
finding my father asleep in bed, aad reprded the appuitioli u 1
foterllUDer of hie approaohing death; but he li•IIG three yeara
after this event. I now told him what had happeued to me, that
he bad appaared to me. and tht~t 1 had 1pebu.with biJil OD te-
veral subjects; on which he Jlplied, that thil had pa-rnd to
him, It ia. a1ao remarkable, that ha-riug. g9IWIto the riftC.the.IBIIUI
day, with the friend whom I wu viaiting, in onler tD oatah orabl,
I was really in danger of falling into the stream. •
" I testify, upon my soul, that Ill thia ia trllth ; and if· you
p11blish this account, let it be done in my DIUII8; for I am not
aahamed of oonfes1ing the trllth. I know of many OCCIQmiD08I
connected with the world o£ spirits, which are so certainly
proved that they cannot be doubted ef; end if it will give you
pleasure, I will relate tham to you. We will leave free-thinken
to laugh, Bllli the euper1titiou to be terrified; bnt we bow that
399
it ill very uelal tD the inquirer after tnlth, IIDd tD the true Chria-
tiu.. tD becpme more intiulately acquainted with the world of
llpiritll. In former times people believed tDo much, but at pre-
tat, in tbiB dreadful age, every thiDg that belllll the name of
lii.th ill extiuguillhed, &c."
" Ifany 0118 should 111ppoae," contiuuee Stilliug, "that Baron
Voa Sul.a ill a follower of Swedeu.borg, I oen usure him. that he
ill not: he belonp tD no 11110t or party, and ill nothing more than
a piou ud orthodoxLutheran.
"ThillSwedish uarrative belouga tD thatcl888which pro9eathat
the inward man, the eoul, which coDJillta ofa rational spirit,· and
Ill ethereal coveriug, with wbioh. it ill oloeely united, oan leave
the body for a short time, in certsin individll8le who1111 organiza-
tion il dispo~ed for it, and then refilm tD h again. I have been
railed at, ridiculed, and oal~~ml)iated oa aooouilt ofthe remarkable
~ tale related in my theory; aud. yet it ie all troe, 8BCl
Cdonded i.Jtthe nature of man. I could adduce a multitude of
•atestible prcofil. It ia one of the most remarkable pheuo-
- of the pretent age, that not ouly ratiOIIIIlieta, believers iD
II&&Ual religioa, mel. free.tbinkera, but a1eo oocllllionally orthodox
Christians, oppose with all their might the narrating of soch
~ ; they will not enn have *em 1tp0k81l of, and 011
110 11000unt made poblio. I here ask, eolemnly, bo1dly, and
courageoualy, in the preeeJ~Ce of God-Why wot1 If the Lord
penaita my thing of an UIICOJIIJDOD and remarkable nature to
p-t itllelf tD our aell88s, are we not at libertyto inquire what
the Go•ei'DOI' of DAtoTe inteuda by it1 When stonee fall from
heaven, or wh81l my novelty ia dieceraed ia the three kiugdOJH
of D&ture, or in the llky, or, geuerally llp8alriog, in the -tariaJ
wwld, with what ardour and with whU ei'ama \\a -~
400
labour to aome to the bottom ofit, and to malre new diiCOveril!l-
and that justly! But Ill! soon 811 apparitions from the aupenen·
sible or spiritual world are spoken of, every one ia up in Ullll
against it: they will neither hear, see, nor refute; but only nil
· and ridicule. What may N the true catl# of thu i~W. ·
emadurt 1 They aay, it is in order to prevent superstition fna
spreading! But is that superstition, when I aee, or ~enaibly ret!
something that is uncommon, or that is opposed to my ratiOIIII
system, and I am then convinced and believe it1 It is tilll
superstition, when I abuse nch appearanoea, and apply them to
something, to which they do not belong.
•• Thetruereason, with reference to the professorsofthefuhioa·
able philosophy of tbe day, is the convictiOD that tllm•"'* '!!",.
il fal&e, if apparition~ ofapirits f'«<lly occur; and when orthodo1
Christians combat it, the reason ia, IHcause it is oppoaed to the llfti·
clu offaith to which they have mblcribed. But ought articll!l of
faith to contradict the truth l
"It i~ remarkable, that even a celebrated heathen quotesu
instance of one whose soul left the body for a season, and-
able to return to it again. A very dear and learned friend wrote
to me on the ind June, 1812, 811 follows:-
" •Before I receive anotherletterfrom you, I note'down for yoa
the following passage relative to the existence ofthe soul out of
the body, from Plio. Hist. Nat. vii. 53, by which it is to 1M>
observed, that this Pliny the elder was attached to the Jo:picllJ'I!UI
opinion of the diaaolution of the soul at death, and consequently
was very impartial in this case. He says, •We find amongst othen
an instance, that the soul of Hermotimus of Cluomllne was wont
to fol'll&ke iq. body, and wander about, and by mean11 of its wan-
derings bring intelli~;euce of. man'! \.\>.l.~ "" ,.. ~"-~. ,..b.ieh
NOTBI." 401
none could bow but auch u were present at them, during which
hia body lay halE dead; until his enemiea (who were called
Cantharit8a) burnt it, and thua cut off the·retniat of the returning
110111.-' So far Pliny.'
"Wluttl'aul relates in! Cor. Jcii. !,with reference to his being
caught up into the third heaven, is also remarkable in this re-
~t; in so doing, he makes use of the words, • Whether in the
body or out of the _body, I cBDDot tell; God knoweth.' From
whence so much is evident, that the highly enligh~ned apoatle
regardlld it at least u poeai.ble, that the soul could leave the
body for a aeason, and return to it again. Therefore, that which
wu not objectionable to this planter of Christianity amongst the
heathen, ought also not to be so to us.
"Iregard it as highly neceaaary in theae critical timea, to draw
the attention of the public to such like uncommon and singular
phenomena, in order that they may be vpon their guanl againat
the deceitful signa and wonders whic:h are to be expec:ted in the
coming years.
"Iti1 alreadybad enough, that there are here and there persona
who naturally fall into this state, and mislead many good and
pioua people to the moat ahoolriug enthusiaam and fanaticiam;
but when thia dangerous matter is "
multiplied by art, and abused
to injurious purpoaea, a hell upon earth must arise from it: and
what is to be particularly lamented is,·the appearance of sanctity
tbat envelope& auch persona; so that even true Christiana are
deceived by it, being dazsled by a false light; and unless the Lord
baa oompuaion upon them, are plunged into perdition."
Stilling conclude& his obeervationa with the following remark·
able words:-" Verilya time will come when my theory of Pneu-
matology will be brought forth fro~ dWity llOtu.I!IU., -11 \'b.'-\.\.'*'
thanked ftJr haYing written it. Dear friends and "I'Mden, I he«
ofyou, t'or the aake of the mercy o( God, not to regvd me u •
enthui•t, who oarri.ea the Jnatter too f'ar; for I llpeak theWOld•
of trnth and sobemeaa, and time will justify me, e"'n as it ..
hitherto done. Let as faithfully peuevere in ,..tchillg IJMI
prayer; and wbate"'r Jn&Y btappen, we ab&ll be eaf'e."
Not• 4.-The IUlOOUDt gin~n by M. Nicolai, of tbe ap.--
he eaw whilat in a state of indisposition, ill 10 rawbble, tMt
we here insert it, ... ltriking mdence of the efFect& o(. plly.
aically disordered imagination. His lltalanent i1 u ·follon:
" During the latter ten monthl of the year 1790, l'laad es:pe·
rienced several melancholy events, which deeply d"eoted .,,
particularly in September, from which time I II'Dffimld an a11111o1t
uninterrupted series of miafortun1111, which aBlicted me with tile
most poignant grief. I was accustomed to be bled twice a year;
this bad been done on the 9th of July, but was omitted to bto
repeated at the end of the year. Le.ls blood bad C011118CJU8Utiy
been evacuated in 1790, than was uaual with me; and from s.p.
tember I was constantly occupied in busineaa which requu.d
the most unremitted exertion, and which was rendered •till -
perplexing by frequent interruptioua.
"In January and February of the year 1791, I had the lllicli-
tional misfortune to experience several unpl-.nt circuJnatallcft.
which were followed, on the !4th February, by a mOlt Yioleat
altercation. My wife and another person came into my apart•
ment, at ten o'clock in the moming, in order to console me, bu1
r was too much aii.tated. n.,- -a. 11enet~ C)\ l.w.'.\\'11'\I.U., ....bich bali
!10'1'1!8.
aoet~Uy afFectled my moral feelinga, to be eapable of at-
tending to ~. On a n~den, I peroeived at the distance of
about fAin pac•,a form like that ofa deeeued penon. I pointed
at :tt, utiug my wile whether she did not eee it1 It waa but
utara1 that lhe ahould not - ay thing : my qneation therefore
lhnDed her much, ad lhe 118Dt dil'eotly for a phyaician. The
plaaDtalm oontiaued about eight minutes. I grew at length more
ealm, aDd MiDg ntremely maueted,ten into a reatle11 slumber,
W'hich luted about half' a hoar. The pbyaician eacribed the
sppaitiOD to -riolent mental excitement, and hoped theril would
'be DO Nt1lm ; but the violent agitation of my mind had, in aome
-y, dilbrdered my nerves, and produced fnrtller conaeqnencea,
which iMerVe a moN minute deecription.
"At fbur o'cloek in the afternoon, the form which I had seen in
the mcmddg, re-appeared. I 'Iris by myself when this happened,
mel 1leing rather uneuyat the incident, went to my wife's apart-
mat; but there lik-iM I was followed by the apparition, which
however disappeared at inte~s, and always ;presented. itself in
a ltanding poeture. About six o'clock, there appeared also se-
_,llftl walking figures, whieb had 11.0 connection with the first.
" I et.!I.Jiot ueign any other cauee for all this, than a continued
rumination on the vexation• I had endured, which, though calmer,
I could not forget, and the collllequences of which I meditated to
counteract. Theee egitttiODII occupied my mind three houre
.rter dinner,juat when digestion commenced. I co1110led myaelf
at length with reapect to the disagreeable-incident which bad
occuioDed the first apparition; but the phmtuma continued to
inCNBM and cbanp in the moat linguler mmner, though I bad
tHen the proper medioinea, md found myeelf perfectly well.
'' When the firet terror waa over, aa I beheld tb.~ "\'!b.,."'~"''
NOTJ!8,
without great emotion, whilst tUiug thea for what tbey ....Uy
were-the remarkable conaeqaeucea of m indil~tion, I -
deavoured to collect myael£ u much u polllible, that I EPI
prNel'Ve a clear coDIOioiWlel8 of the chaugee that llboald il-
wvdly take place iu me. I observed th- pbaDtlall V8rf
cloaely, and frequently rellected on my u~t tboapU.
to diacover, if poeaible, by meaDII of what ueociationof W..
e:uctly th- forma preaented themaelvea to my i•I!Pntjce
I thought at timM I bad foll.lld a clue; bat tlkiug the whole •
gether, I could not make out rmylllltural COIUI8Ction 'betwe. die
state of my miud, my occupationa, tniu ol thoughts, ad die
multifarious forma which now appeared to me, Uld thea 8pia
diaappeared. After repeated and cloae obaervatioal, aud a ala
esllmination, I waa unable to form any coacluaion rela&ift CO tile
origiu and duration of the dilrerent phantuma which ,_.-
themselves to me. All that I could infer wu, that while my
nervous system was in such an irregular state, 8UCh phan~
would appear to me as if I actually saw and heard them,-diat
these illusions were not modified by any known laws of reuoa,
imagination, or the common association of ideas,......-nd that pro-
bably other people, who may have had similar apparitions,~
exactly in the same predicament. The origin of the indiYidul
forms which ·appeared to me, was undoubtedly founded on tile
state of my mind ; but the manner in which it was thus aJfected,
will probably remain as inscrutable as the origiu of thought uatl
reflection.
"Mter the first day, the form of the deceased person no loDgtr
appeared, but in its place many other phantasms, eometimea n.
1•ruscnting acquaintances, but mostly straogen. Those whom I
kaow, couaiated of both \i'V\n~ 11.nq q~ ~~liClua, but tbe
NOTJ:S, 405
number of the latter Will comparatively small. I obaerYed, that
persons with whom I daily conversed did not appear to me u
phantasms, these representing chielly pen0n1 who lived at aome
distance from me. I attempted to produce at pleaaure, phr:ntasms
ofpersons whom I knew, by attentively reSecting on their coun-
tenance, shape, &c.; bot distinctly aa I recalled to my lively
imagination the respective shapes of these persons, I .still la-
boured in vain to make them appear to me aa phantasma, though
I had before involuntarily seen them in t\lat mauner, and p~r­
oeived them some time after, when I leaat thought of them.
These phantasms appeared to me contrary to my inclination, aa if
they were presented to me from without, like the phenomena of
aature, though they existed no where but within my mind. I
oould at the same time, plainly distinguish betwee1_1 phantaama
aad real objects; and the calmness with which I examined them,
euabled me to avoid committing the smallest mistake. I knew
exactly when it only appeared to me that the door waa opening,
and a phantasm entering the room, and when it actually opened,
and a real person entered.
"These phantasms appeared to me equallyclear and distinct at
all times and under all circumstances-both when I was alone
aad when I was in company, aa well in the dfy as at night, and
in my own house as well as abroad. They were however less
&eqnent when I was in the house of a friend, and rarely ap-
peared to me in the street. When I shut my eyes, these p~an­
tuma would sometimes disappear entirely, though there were
in1tancea when I beheld them with my eyes closed; yet when
they diaappeared on such occasions, they generally re-appeared
when I again opened my eyes. I conversed occaaionslly with
the physician and my wife, respecting the phantasms which sur-
! P.
rounded me at the - t . They appearetl more lreqlllllly
walkiug than at~. nor were they constantly pNMDt. TMJ
frequently did not appear for IIOIIle time ; but alwaJII _.,..,.
for a l_onger or a aborter period, either Bingly 01' in _,-y:
the latter, however, wu moat often the cue.
"I generally II&'IV human forma ofboth aelt811; butthey 1lllllly
aeemed not to take the amallest notice at MCh other, ani~~•
in a m.;ket place, where all are eager to pl"8U thrciagh a anri.
At times, howeYer, they seemed to be trlml8cting baa-wiD
each other. I also repeatedly eaw people on ~.....
and birds. All these phanta81118 appnred to ~ ill tlleir-.11
size, and u distinct u if alive, exhibiting dift'ereDl .udatl
carnation in the uncovered parte, u well u ditfereut oo1oara1M
fuhiona in their dre11, though the coloun -.d to - -
what paler than in real nature. None of the figure~ appetnMI
particularly terrible, comical, or disgusting; m011t of them beDJ
of an indifferent shape, and acme having a pleuing appeaRIIIl8-
The longer theae phantaams continued to appear, the monlre-
qnently did 'they return, wbilat at the eame time they i!ICNMM 1
in number.
" About four weeks after their first appearance, I began .WIt
hear them apeak. They aometimea connrsed amongthemael-.
but more frequently they directed their diacourse to me. Their
speeches were commonlyshort, and neverof an unpl-nt ~.
Several times I saw beloved and sensible friends of both ae:res.
whose addresses tended to appeasemygrief,which had notwholly
subsided. These consolatory speeches were ingeneral add~
to me when I wu alone; sometimes, however, I wu ~ ~
these consoling friends whilst in company, even while real per-
Ions were speuinf; to m.ll. Thll'loll ~<>n"M>\atQry addresset~ ~
lliated BOJDetimes af abrupt phrases, md at other~~ they were re-
plariy coDDeeted.
" Though both my miDd md bedy were in a tolaraltle state of
emity at this time; Uld theae pbmtaams beoame1o familiar to ae,
thatthey did notcause me the alightelt nll888iness-I even IIOIDe·
timal -uaed myaelf with 11Ul'V8ying them, and spoke jooulal'ly
ffl tbem to the physician and my wife,-yet I did notneglect te
- pmper medicines, especially when they began to haunt me
the whole day, and even at night asaoon as I awoke.
" At last it was agreed that leech41s should be agai• applied to
-. aa formerly, which was accordingly dOile on the lOth April,
1'1'91, at eleven o'clock in the moming. No one lV88 with me
llaaides the surgeon, but during the operation, my Qbamber lV88
erowded with human phantasms of all desariptiona. This con·
tiuaed without interruption, till about half-put four, just when
my digestion commeuoed. I then peraeived, that they began to
move more slowly; soon after, theircoloUI'II began to fade; and at
MVBD o'clock they were entirely white, and moved verylittle,
tlaough the forms were u distinct as before; growing, however,
by degrees more obscure, yet not fewer in number, as had gene-
rally been the cue. The phantums did not withdraw, nor.did
they vanish, which previous to that time had fl'Bqilently occurred,
They now seemed to diseolve in the air, whilst fragments ofsome
oC them continued visible a considerable time. About eight
o'clook the ioom waa entirely cleared of my fantutic visitor~~.
" Since that period, I have felt twioe or three times a sensation
18 if these phantasms were going to re-appear, without howeve~:
actually seeing any thing. The same sensation lllll'prised me.juat
Wore I drew up this account, wbilat I lV88 examining IIOID8
papers relative to these apparitions, which l had:d.t-a."'m"'~ ~
r'BIIr 1'T9J."
NIIU 5.-The doctrine here adnueecl by our author, will •
doubtless new aud strange to !DaDy, Crom it. not formiDg put rl
uy prote.taut creed, nor being ever brought fonrvd in u EIIJ-
liah pulpit. It ie however clearly contained in the Holy llerip-
tures, although all our protelltant traD8latora, with one ~
hue stndioulyaYOided everyexpreuion in their ...era-..-.·
could betray, or gi,-e countenance to it. Yet it ia a 1111lljecttl. •
mnah importanee, with reference to the realatate orenryiDIJM.
dual af\er leering this world, that it ia dNening or tM ..
rigid aud caudid in,-eatigation; for if it be 6nmd to be camel
and scripiural, the news that are generally entertainell el 1111
future stste ofthe soul, will be prom to be f'alee IIDd ill-fouiW.
We therefore subjoin the whole of our IIDthor'a defeace el dil
doctrine, extracted from his apology for the preaent work, -
sioned by ita being prohibited by the Council of Bule, and lllo
in the kingdom of Wirtemberg, where every copy of it - Gl'
dered to be delivered up.
"There is no need of the Bible, nor of a dirine revelatioe, to
prove, aud even mathematically demonstrate, that the eri 'il
hollow within, orcontains a spacious concarity, which iB obrioM
if we consider, that at the creation, the earth ,..... first of all, a
' Thohu t>apohu,' a Wllllte and void mus of earth IIDd ,....,
deeply covered with the latter, (Gen. i. ! .) In thia Btate it cW
not revolve upon its axis, consequently all the heavier parta d
towards the centre. The heaviest substances, stoneand earth,,...
there; the ligbter,-for instsnce, watsr,-above, upon tile cir-
cumference. The earth then begau to moi'e like a wheel upoa i•
axis. Now every one who is acquainted with the great SU ~­
Newton's theory of the universe, or has ever attended lecturea• •
physiology, must 'kuo,., tna\ -a.\\Ul.-,=m~n\!; of aolicl_. j
fuid, light and heavy ma\e't\-a.\11, a"\.,\\>..,""'""'"""~ "'"u.~
.. NOTU,
globe, as aoon as they reoein a rotatory motion, and revoln ra·
pidly, must experience a total ohange; for by this reYolution, all
subatances receive a centrifugal power,in proportion to the weight
of ~e revolYing mass, but which continues to decrease with their
.distance &om the centre, till it stands in equal proportion to the
centripetal force. On this acoount, the heaYieat partl of the
earth, such as rocks, mountai~, and the various lrinds_
of earth,
must remove the furthest from the centre, and form the outermost
1hell, and the bottom of the sea: below thia outer riad i1 water,
perhapa also continents; in some places islands, then denae atmoa-
pheric air; still nearer to the centre, a more refined atmoaphere,
and in the centre of the earth, probably a dark ball of fire. This
il 1111 phyaically just, that no scientific person can doubt of it;
ilr the revolution of the earth is so rapid, that under the equator
it il equal to about 115 German miles (1000 English) per hour,
IDd with 118, about 150 ench miles, because we are from 40 to 41
Ugr- Dearer the North Pole; that ia, from the place in which
I am at present, I advance in one hour, with all the objects that
lhlmlllnd me, on the earth's surface, 150 German miles in an
euterly direction. But if the progresa of the earth round the
lUll be added to the calculation, it will amoant to perhapa &eYersl
tho1U18Dd miles. · An astronomer will fully understand me, and
teRify that what I say is true, and according to nature. ' Thia
npid revolation renders it impoSBible for any heny aubatanoea
to remain in the Yicinity of the earth's centre: they mu1t,U fly
. off from it in proportion to their graYity; and those bodies
'll'bioh baYS the leaat solidity, ench u fire and the particl• of
light. uenme an orbicular shape in the midst. We do not need a
dirine reyelation to be assured of thi1, but merely a phy1ioal
-.ut ~logical tncwleclr•·
410 IIOTU.
•
I oertaiDly canuot p110ve {rom phyUolegy and ee.mogoa1, .._
Hall ad Hades are in this inward CODca.-ity of the earth, ..t IMt
the IaUer e:s:teuda through the Iobell of the earth, and tmoapCE
almoaphere, up to bea..en abon, ia pure ether, to the Nli._
o£ the blest: but we will - what the Bible aaya of it.
· In Pronrba .,• 5, it ia uid "Her feet (tboee of a -~
womm) buteo dowa unto d..th : her stepe talre hold OD su.l.•
The Septuagiat here trmelatee the Hebrew SMol, by the Gftlil
word HIUUt. Both signify the gloomy, llileat receptacle of die
dead, end aot alwaye, but rather yery aeldom, bell. LatJMr (•
wellu our Engliah traulatora) tran1laled both worda ai.olt 111-
wap, "hell," and at other~," graye;" butthiaia.ateoneet,
and oaua. miatak111. In the peuage quoted abo1'8, it 1ipiie1
the place of torment in Hadea, which we call Hell. Tbe .oN
"down," shews that this mel&DCboly abode ia deep in the euth.
Further, Isaiah v. 14, " Therefore, (because the Israelitea hid
carried their trBDIIgreuiona to such an exceu,) Sluol (the Sepbo·
agint again translates Hades) bath enlarged herself, and op8lltd
her mouth without measure; aod their glory, aad their multibide,
aad their pomp, and be that rejoiceth shall deacead iato it."
There ia no doubt that here the place of torment in Hadee, or
hell, ia meant, and that this ia deep in the earth.
Again, we find in Isaiah xiv. 9-19, a paaaage, which ~
to the moat awfully sublime of the whole Bible. I will trauillt
it ve'l minutely, and subjoin it.
Ver. 9. "Sheol in the deep wae excited on thy account, tD ~
forth to meet thee, when thou camest. For Bake of thee, ~
gianta were awakened; all the goata of the earth, and caued dill
all the kioga of the heathen, rose up from their aeata."
The 1ubjec:t here ia \\\a\ ~e-a.\ om\\ ~n~~>\ ~'"'<)'' '-"-'\i.a\11
and hia reception iD Sluol, or Hadea. It ia beyond a
there again, the pl11C41 of the damned iDHedeaiameant;
:his place ia below, iD the depth ofthe euth.
l. "They all together (the giantl, the goa&~, and the
he h~athen) begiD and say unto thee, Thou an become
as we; thou art become like unto us."
t. " Thy loftiDeaa ia ca~~t down into Shut, with the
thy lute: worms llhall now become thy couch, and wonna
.by covering."
as-probably reference to the corruption o£ hia body iD
!•. "How art thou fallen &om heaven,thou brilliantltar,
o( the morning! Thou art cut do'llfll to the ground, thou
t weaken the princes ofthe people."
8. "Yet thou thoughteat iD thine heart, I will eacend
•ven, I willelente my throne above the ltll'll of God;
ill eet myself on the mount of UMmbly, on the lidea o£
l."
s, thou didat intend to prepare thee a -t on the north
•e temple at Jerusalem, where aftenvarda Fort Antonia
ted, which commanded the temple.
4. "I will ascend up to the heights ofthe thick clouds,
s myself equal to the Moat High."
5. " Yet·. hast thou been cut down iDto Sheol, to the
the pit."
words, "to the lidea of the pit," are literally treualated
1 Hebrew; 'ror "''D •ro'l' ;K .U jarksMi IHw, mean, ad
rree. The Septuagint however says, a~ vll 9~ n;,
l the bottom, into the deepest place of the earth; and this
!18!1.r the proper eenae of the ""o~a~ \\\a'Uulf.\l\ ~"'!""""
,_,
wu to be brought down into tbe deepeat pl- o( .tb• earth'•
couca'lity, into S/Nol, that iJ, into ita centre.
Ver.t6. "Tiioae tbet- tbee ahall nvrcnrly look 1IJIOII diN,
oouider tbee, and aay, II tbis tbe man thet made tbe ~ t1o
tnmlble, and tbe lriugdoms to '\.naket"
Ver.17. "That made tbe earth a deaert, aud demolillaell ill
eitil!ll; tbat auf'ered not his priaouera to go home1"
Ver. 18. "All tbe lriuga or tbe heatbea, together, repou il
honour, every one in hia ho~ae."
Ver.19. "ButtbouartcutoutoCthygrBYe, like au allalli·
uable branch," &c.
Now cau any one still doubt, whetbertbe Biblecoutaiua what I
have asserted, that ths eartb is inwardly bollcnr, and tbat hell il
in the midst oritl
Although it be superfluous, yet I will here qnoteeome additioaal
passages. In Job xi. 8, Zophar says, "He (tbat is, God) is
higher than tbe heaven; what wilt thou do 1 Deeper tha11 SliM,
what canst thou lmow 1"
Chap. xx'li. 6. "Sheol is uncovered before Him." (Goi.)
And David says in the 139th Psalm, 8tb nrae, "Ir I ascend ap
to heaven, Thou art there ; ifI make my bed in Scheel, then
Thou art also."
But that Scheol or Hades contains not only tbe place o( the
damned, but is also the receptacle of all departed soula, or rather
was so, till Christ proclaimed to the Old Testament saints, tile
day after his erncifi:rion, their redemption, BDd conducted thea
in triumph over death and Sheol, to his glory, is prond by the
following passages :-
In Genesia xxxvii, 85, the \)atriarch Jacob says to hia childrell,
wbo aought to comfort him, ou\h~ <...
'1."11.~~) to.-"'-<>'-"""'-
NO'I:JIS,
J01eph, "I shall go dmm with sorrow into SMol to my 1on."
There can be no reference here to the grave, for he believed that
Joseph was devoured bywild beasts; and equally as liitle to hell,
for Jacob and Joseph did not belong there: he speaks therefore
ofthe receptacle of the dead (Hades), where the pious were also
obliged to wait, though in a state of rest and inward peace, for
their eyentnal salvation.
Job, the patient suf'erer, says, (chap. :~:vii, 13.) "Though I
wait long, yet is Sheol (Hadea) my house, and my bed is made
in darknl!81." That is, my soul shall.abide in Hades, and my
body rest.in the gloomy grave. Job went not to hell, and conse-
quently it meBDI the place ofrest in Hadel.
Again, in Psalm lll:li:D:~:. 49. " Who is there that linth, and
shall not see death 1 Who can deliver his soul from the hand of
Sheoll"
That is, every one must die; nor can any soul withdraw itself
from Hades·: thither all the pious as well as the impious must
go, ~ut with this great dif'erence, that the former depart to a
blissful state ofrest; the latter to eternal torment.
Further, Eccles. ill:. 10. "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do,
ilo it with all thy might. For in Sheol, whither thou art.going,
there is neither work, nor device, nor reflection, nor wisdom."
· That is, do here what is incumbent upon thee without delay;
'or beneath, in Sheol, or Hades, thou canst no longer do any
:bing ; there every thing is wanting. And
In Isaiah xxxviii. 10. King Hezekiah complains in his siokne81
111d aaya, "Now must I desceno.l to the gates of Sheo)," -Haze-
dab was a pious king, and the place of the damned cannot here
"'meant.
Let it always be obeerred, that the Hebte'lll 'IliO-N. '\~i'a"tA\., -~
NOTBao
the Greek term Hadee, have the ume meaniDg, and signify tAl
receptacle ofdeparted apirita,
These are the tettimouiee of the Old Teatament ; let 111DOW
also examine what the New Teetament aays on this aubject. lD
thia part ofthe Bible, which is written in Greek, the Hebmr
word " Sheol " no longer ocoura, but ita equivalen~ " Hadel."
Here it is particularly remarkable, that the pWl& of tom1e11t ia
Hadea is generally called "Gehenna," 1111 will be foUDd ill the
Mquel. The Greek word GeeDD&, or GehBD.Da, comea 6om the
Hebrew Ge Hinnom, the valley of Hinnom, This valley, whick
lies to the south of Je1U88lem, divided Mount Zioa &om M_.
Gihon. During the period ofthe idolatry of the Iaraelites, ~
dren were burnt in it, at a plaoe called Tophet, in b0110r of.Mo-
loch : thia made thia nlley a place ofhorror and abborre..,., IIIII
afterwards an emblem of the place of torment inHadel. Thia iJ
what is properly called Hell,
Chriat saya in Matt. xvi. 61 "Thou art Peter, and on thit roci
will I build my church, and the gates ol Hades aball not prenil
against it."
That is, the church which Peter founded at Jerusalem on the
first day of Pentecost, and in the following day•, shall not lie
OVefCOJDe by all those that go in and out of the gates of Had•;
and these are wicked angels and the sonia of men. Thia ia au
iilcontestible proofthat the real followere of Christhave to atrire
against the world of spirits, as is also certain and evident lnia
Ephesians vi.
Our Lord aays in Luke .x. 15, " And thou, Capernaum, that Ill
exalted to heaven, thou shalt be cut down into Hades." Thia il
a metaphor, and signifies that Capernaum was •ftouriahiug city,
which had beaidea, the um.~eull.'o\"' "''~~~ a£ being the fre.
NOTD. 415
quent residence of the Redeemer of the world; but should be
cut doW'D illto the abyss of misery, on account ofita evil doings.
By the way, it is evident, that Christ, who is truth itself, places
Hades ill the depth ofthe earth.
Remarkable and suitable for my purpoae, is the passage ill Luke
xri. U. Chri1t here seys of. the rich man, " And in Hades be
lifted up his eyea, being in torment." But of this parable I shall
be obliged to apeak ill the sequel.
The word "Geheuna" occurs inthe following passages :-
Matt. v. tt. "But he that says, thou fool! shall be in danger
ofthe fire of Gahanna." Verse !9 & SO. "It is better that one
of thy membera pariah, than that thy whole body be cast into
Gebenna." Chap•.u:iii. 15. "Woe anto you, Scribes and Phari-
aeea-you make proselytes, and llfterwards sons of Gehenna of
them." Verse 83. "Ye generation of vipera, bow will ye escape
the judgment of Gebenna1" &c. The apostle James says of the
tongul!, that " it it is set on fire of Gehenna.''
It aeema probable to me, that by the fiery Gebenna must be
understood the place of torment in Sbeol.or Hades, which is in
the centre of the earth. But I hasten farther.
I ha:ve now proved that Hades commences at the concavity of
the earth, and have still to show, that it extends throufb .the
outer shell, and through the atmosphere, up to pure ether, and
borders on the abode of the blest, that is, on beavt~n. Many
places testify that this abode of the blest is on high, ill heaven;
and no one doubts that Christ wes lifted up in a cloud, and as-
cended to heaven. !cannot, however, prove from the Bible, that
the apace which extends from the Gebenns, in the centre' of
the earth, up to the heaven of the blest, is occupied _by Hades :
,1et, I could prove it from the testimony o\ t.a~t. 'IX\.~\."\\.~""' ..,_.,..
~edlh«dntb,aod lroa tJ..'telti-yoC ...........
odNr ,.-,who all agreeioit; buttlMNt--.w ..W
DOt H r-i'f'IHI. Jt i. UDpl-t for me, tat l d.re JIIIC prot'• it.
beeau. 110111e family en other would al_,- be pJ.-1 ia • pei.r.l
8itutioo by 10 doiog ; SDd therelore they - DOt williDr ...
111eh thing~~ ahould b. mede public : odaenriN I Nalcl ..._
ot!cial docamente respeetiog N't'eral IIJ'PIIIitioM, W'biA .,_ ie
reslity atrictly inn.Ugated, IUid tN apperitioM loaDil to b. cne.
But i( bell SDd the clamued be in the eeam oC the -u,ad
beann with ite blest inbabitute b. allo'f'e in ether, it ie Gilly
eredible, that the ·~ betwist both estremes ie iJ!edwith -'t,
which arf! nesrer to the one or the other nu-, _.w., to
the degree of thmr morality, Yirtue, and piety. Aud, s-nJ!y
epeaking, thit it not a point that can ban any idueace on tiM
IICtioo• of num, and i11 therefore a matter of perfect iudHI'ereou.
No <me who i• ltC<JUBinted with the aubject will deny, that my
doctrin" ofJ(..d.,., or a J•urification after death, waa not the gnenl
doctrin" of the Chrittian r"ligion or the univeraal chnrch, lna
tb" lir11t J•"riod of the church down to the Reformation. Bat
wlum tl'" Hmni•h church af'terwardt made u purgatory of it,
from wt.ieh any ono could be releaaed by maa~ea (or hia _.,
wiJ!!:h'we,., dearly J••id for, the refor1t111n were quite in tbt
right in bani•bing purgatory from their creed ; but they ought t.o
hn" rntainfld the doctrine CJf the J•rimitive churchea, of the COD·
tinu111l "i"•ration of Chri1t'1 work of redemption after deatll·
'l'hi• I 1hall uft11rward11 prove.
'flu• J••••ago• that ure adduced to 1how, that the wicked after
<l"uth go i111111odiately to bell, and the rigbteoua to beano, ud
tl11t c•mtequently there \• u<1 \u\et'ID.~i.t.U. au.te, are the Col.
lowinr:-
NOTE8. 417
The first I will mention, is the beautiful and i111tructive para-
ble of the rich man. Luke :ni. 19--St. Our Lord here relates,
that Luarua died, and was carried by angels (mark I) into Abra-
ham'a bosom, that i1, into the place of rest and peace in Sheol,
or Hadea, whereAbraham with all the old testament sainte abode,
u I have already copiously proved. The rich man alao died and
was buried. The Lord now expreaaea himself verbatim as fol·
lows :-"And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments,
and saw Abraham afar oft', and Lazarus in his bosom," &c.
Therich man was therefore in the placeoftorment inHades, and
Abraham likewise in Hades, but at a great distance from the rich
JIIIID, and in a state of blel&ednesa; and thus he waa perceived
by the rich man on lifting up his eya. Abraham's abode was
therefore much higher, which is again a hint, that Hades ascends
upwards out of the earth, The poor wretch now begged for
some alleviation of his misery; but this the patriarch mildly
refused.' and added the excuse, that there was between the~ a
great gulf, xaap.a ,Uya, hiatu.s magnu.s, which could not be
passed from any quarter, &c.
It does not follow at all from this parable; that departed .Ouls
pus immediately after death to the place of their final destina·
tiou, either heaven or hell; for both were in Hades, only at a
great distance &om each other. But now, after the aacension of
Christ, after be has taken posseasion of the kingdom, and pre·
pared the mansions for hi• people, all the saints of the old testa·
ment are with him ; and all those that die in true faith in him,
and who are redeemed and purified by his blood, come not into
condemnation, but instantaneously enter into the joy of their
Lord; as I have stated at length in all my writings, whenever
tbia subject wu treated of. I have 11.e"et ~e~l.ei). ~"" ..._ ......~
...
418 NOTU,
and punishments immediately commence after ~; at p,_t,
we are only treating ofthe placea, heaven, Hadee,lllld heU.
The instance of the peuiteDt thief, to whoa Chn.t llii,
" Verily, verily, this day ahalt thou be willa -in Jlllftlli•,"il
also brought fonnrd againat this doctrine, md ia inlillaW ..
prove, that the thief, immediately after death, eatered' ilato die
real heaven, the IIWIIIion of the bleat, and eojoyecl the Yillioa fll
God ; but this is incorrect : he wat where Christ alao --,
the same day, immediately after death, to Hadee, to the pl.-
of rest and peace, where the fath8ftl of the acieat oo.--t
abode. The Jews, in the time of Chrillt, called tbie ,._
"paradise," even aa they called the place of torment in Hadel,
" Gehenna." It is evident, that by the term paradiae, Clarill
did not understand the fir1t heaven, in which ia the thrlllle o(
God, from what be aaid to Mary of Magdala, after hie r8111treC·
tion, (John xx. 17.) "I am not yet ascended to my Father,"&t.
Therefore, when Christ said to the thief, "To-day ahalt thoa be
with me in paradise," seeing that after his resurrection, be wu
still not in heaven, but had descended into the lmuat part• of till
earth, (Ephes. iv. 8,) consequently into Hades; it naturally fol.
low1, that the thief accompanied him thither, and was there Jlft·
pared for full felicity. Paul was also caugbt up into p~·
(2 Cor. xii.) where he heard unapeakable words: he calla it 1M
third heaven; consequently it was not the first, where the viaiou
of God is enjoyed. Finally, Christalso mentions paradise in Rer.
ii. 7. Those thatovercome ofthe Ephesian church, shall eat o(1M
fruit ofthe tree of life in paradise. Those of Smyrna shall be deli·
vered from the second death. They of Pergamos shall eat of 1M
hidden manna. The Tbyatiriana obtain power ov!'r the heathen.
'fhe Sardians, whit... \'rie11t\-y ~ann;"'"· ~\\.. "\'\\\\-.A.,\~hi.-.no art
NOTBBo 419
made pillala in the temple of God; and the Laodicean conqueron
shall even Bit on the throne of the Father and the Son, upon the
throne ofall world&. Observe this important gndation. Aa the
obnroh militant, from the apoatles' times downwatds, increuee
in inward strength and illumination, (I mean with reference to
true believers,) ed aa the conflict with the kingdom of darlmea
beoomes more cillli.onlt, the greater will be the reward of the vic-
ton. Eating ofthefruitofthetreeoflife in paradise, is something
mooh inferior towearing white prieatly garments, or being pillars
ill the temple of God, or sitting with Christ upon the throne of
all worlds. Consequently, paradise is the outer court of heaven,
the etemai morning. 0 happy be, who obtains even this region
fOr his abode!
Anotherpaasage is that in Rev. :riv. 18. "Ble888jl are the
dead that die in the Lord, from henceforth." But this is not at
all applicable, as I have stated ~n my theory, and as I have also
observed above, that the aonls of the righteous are, at death,
immediately received by BDgels, and COII.dncted to the regions of
bliss.
Besides this, I must alao mention, that the passagein question
has by no means the sense which is generally attached to it; but
ite meBDing is, From the time ofthese great troubles, which are
here BDnonnced, from Mru:«jorth, blessed are tho~ that die in the
Lord; for they are taken away from the evil to come, they enter
into peace, and their works follow them.
There are aome who cannot comprehend how it is possible,
thata aonl can continue for eentnriee inHades, withoutadvancing
further; as for instance, the White Lady, who must now have
WBUdered about for three centuries BUd a half.
In reply, Tas.lc ifit be more easy to com~t~UI!Itl.~,'U~"''! ~"" "b'-.,..,,
multitude ofcivilly good, honest individuala, who hue troUW
themselves little about Christ and his religion during their li._,
and only practised its outward rite. "-use .others did eo; tMt
these, aftt>r death, should be immediately condemned to ths ead-
leBS torments of hell! Into heav8D, the kingdom of Jon ud
humility, they cannot possibly enter. Whither then shall tHy
go? How can the God oflove, of infinite love, who ia willlilc
that allmen should be saved, permit that IIWikind, heclueoftill
neglijc:t ofa span'alength of time, ahoold be torm&Dted inlniealy,
to aU eternity? The cue is diffimmt with daring and 'll'ieb4
sinners, who heap up one vice upon another.
This middle class ofmen, who are ueither fit for heavea 110r
hell, ought to tslce serious warning from the White lAdy, _.
others in.a similar situation, togetherwith all that ia appalliq is
Hades, in order that they may repent and be converted; for
although they are not referred to these thioga as the - «
conversion, which are provided by religion; yet still, they may,
at the same time, deriv~enefit from them.
I conclude this subject with adverting to a few more puaaget.
which are supposed to controvert the doctrine of an intermediala
state. These are, Heb. U:. 27. "It is appointed unto me11 oace
to die, (not frequently,) and after that, (p.n·tl ~i roiiro) thejudg·
ment." "Thus Christ was once offered, &c." "He shall appell'
the second time to punish and rewvd,"--that is, to judgm1111t.
Here, there is not a word said about judgment immediately fo&.
lowing death, but the sense is this : As man hu two impoltsllt
epochs, in which his etemal destiny is decided,-that is, his
departure from this world, and the lastjudgment;-110 Christbu
also his two epochs, his mediatorial death on the croaa, and hit
majeotic return to )11.<.\~~ \n~ \"""'\\~!, ....'tl.~ \\,.~ ~~~- \D. othff
Ul
Mipeol8, HMill, 88 •·.PI- a£ amendmeni qd purilioatioa,. is
tndy a *"Yjadgm..t Upoll a 110111 that h88 here aegleot.ed.U.
.Untioa!"
,•,'J,\, 'li .
..,.
'It - abu.lt n,~rhoiJB 110 add any'thiDg 110 daMe clea:eaad
eililabiRve,IICriptural and ratiooal proofs a£ the ezilltallce ·of 8.11
iJdllrmldiua •tate betw- heaven·and hell, which il the abode
ohaultitudea..between the death a£the body and .the 188t judg-
111811t, partietdarly u it u a IIUbject upon which 10me of the·most
oelebnted di'riael a£ Y&l'ic!ua pennaaaiODI in our own eouatry
.-. llll.d ia 10 pointedly ooafirmed byevery authentic apparition
ol departed ipirita. We may howeY&r be allowed to obsel"t'e,
what enry echoe~l-boy il acquainted with, that in the Grecian
md Boaanmythology, by the term ...Hadea" wu und8l'Btood
tae etate intowhich evtary 10ulentered ilpmediatelyafter leering
tbil W'OI'ld, before it wu called up to judgment, .to receive ita
illlll de8tioa&ion,· either to 1'artanw or the Elyaian fields. Thua
the idea which the~e heethea ~~~atiODI Jaad of it, atriltingly con"81•
• pcmda with tbllt which i1 given of it in·thi1 work. It i1 also
DOeDriou•, that even to the pre&Sit.day,theJewaunderstand by
Bliall, a plaM of purifioation• through which they all must pall,
uad ~a there a year and a day, aooording to their supenti.
tiona aotiODI, before daey can be lldmitted into paradila. It ia
tbentbra vwy obviou1, that thele wordl must have been used by
the aacrad writen in the IMllllll above IIUIIltioned, and not to
imply ap!Me ofel-erluting torment, or manly the burial place
elQaa,.bOdy, • the pn~~eut nrai0111 a£ Scripture lead the reader
tonp~.
t p
. 1101'8a.
The point bei.Dg tharefore thua alMrly. -.blialaed, tiM ia-
~ to be dl'&Wil from it will be fiRmd to be - - - -
aDd importaDt.
lat. It rectifies our riews with regard to a future lltl.ta.
There i& scarcely aD individual to be £0Wld, ho-Yer pro1ipe
may have been hi& life, and however multiplied hi& uu.s--
llions, (unleaa 1111der .the horrora o£ a guilty --*-•) w
belinea hiluelf worthy o£ hell. uul .-lao .W. DOt pMily llil
aind with the idea o£ the msrey o£ God, aDd the hope of -
happier state after death. And this ia more eepeaially the -
_ with those who, thoqh they are deatitnte o£ real ntigiae,han
not to reproach themselves with my grou ri-, or haq J111Mp1
laid them aside, when more adnuced in yeara, aacl look .,.
them in the light o£ youtb£ul £olliea aDd jD'I'tmile ~
They cannot conceive that they have oommitted uy erillle ol
su'cb enormity 88 to sabject themselves to eYerlaating ~ ;
and being"ignorant of any other stste than heaven aud. hell, D-
tarally persuade themaelves, that at death they will be recei"ACI
into the former, however unfit for it they may be in reality;
which belief, it is to be feared, tends much to confirm them. i.a
this awful delusion. And inally, there are othera, who, ba~
been awakened md partially converted, make theJII.Iel'l'a. IQn!,
and are B88ured by othera, that when they leave thi& wodd, tile
highest honoars, and dignities, and gloriea o£ lleBYen tnni1
them, though many a secret lust and aenaual deaire still pred.i·
nate in their souls, which they fondly bat ninly B)[JMICt to lay
aside with their bodies. All these characters mAy here leu~~
what will be their real state and situation after death, if theT
continue in their preeent condition : for the whole of wlla& 11»
been said upon the au"b1~~~:ot oi \l~~ea l.u ~"-'-·--~..- "'""'
4t8
ritioDa of wJiich it .gins an aocount, are a pointed and practical
comment npoL thole aolemu worda, " Without holinaaa no man
lUll see the Lord,"
Ind. It juatmea the dealings of God with hia creatures.
The 110eptio and the irreligioniat can nenr be brought to be·
JieYe the exiltence of a place of torment, according to the view
geurelly given ofit, being unable to reconcile it with their ideaa
either of the mercy or juatiee of God ; and it ia therefore to
them a conetant stumbling-block, whilstthe injudicious reference
~~afrequantly made by 10me,to the torments of the damned, against
whCIIB they include all who are not exactly of their own•opinion
in matten of faith, only excites their derision and contempt.
But no candid inquirer after truth can refuse hia assent to the
sell-evident proposition, that according as a man baa lived in this
world will be hia state in. the next ;-that if he baa here aeglecte<l
and,rejected the light and grace of God 10 freely olfered him in
the gospel, he will naturally and necBSiarily be deprived of them
.t\er death, and reap the fruit of his sensual and godleas life in
the utter destitution of holinen and consequent ble1111edneaa
hereafter. It is here also clearly evident, that net the mere out-
ward ful1ilment of any acts of devotion, nor any set of religious
notions and opinions,.with whatever name they may be dignified,
nor however orthodox and soriptural they may be, will be of any
avail, .except in so far aa they have produced a change of heart,
and have inlluanced the man's life and, conduct. "What a man
aoweth, that shall he also reap/' Suoh ia the. righteous decision
of the just and infallible Judge. The degree of our happiness or
misery after death, will be in exact correspondence with our statA
of spiritual or worldly tnindednen on leaving this world.
2F2
Snl. ItflmliOee a J8Qitpo-w mm..mt6 alelip.1111,
ID4 to mo-mg ctiligeaee mthe path ofholiDeel.
There are those who a8inn, that the open p~....
a doetriue would ptOduce Ill e6et preeilily tM re-, ad
tend to 8IICOII!IIp llli!U to OODtimle at .. dt.tai!ee liu.l God,..
in the eujo,meut of the pi-rea of the world : but die wriiR
of thU note mut •Y Ctom hU OW11 aperiei-,·thft tile .....
huiaveedgated the eubjllllt, the ;- deeply 11M he felt 6tilt-
filli:te imporblllce of eUiiDal tbinp, ad the n.....edfy of.._
them the chief' object of hU thoughtl, delifte, tmd. punait1.ff
by aay 81.8lllll he may euter Mr., into that rest wtiieh t-a.6
for the people of God, md at death be foand worthy, ~
grace, of being immediately receind into tllciM ....._ tl
petiC8 md bleueclueea, which ClnUt hu prepued fordl-·tW
ion him. He does not howeter deny, that there may be -
who would perrert thls doctrine to their 011'11 destruction; bat
this bas been the case with the trutba of Scripture in every IP•
and still takea place, eveu in·those who !mow of no other ltm
ali'Biting them, than that of etemal miaery. Such cba'1'8Cten be
would, however; affectionately wam, not to heap up to tJM.·
aelvea wrath again.et the day of wrath, and revelatiotl of tile
righteous judgment of God; but let the aerioaa conaideratioa of
this subject induce them to " aeek the Saviour while be -1 w
found, and to call :upon him while he il near; and by ~
their wicked waya and unrigbteoua thou~btl, return unto tilt
Lord, that be may have mercy upon them, and to our God, that
be may abundantly pardon them."
N.te 6.-la Stilling'• u Pocket Book for the Friallds of Reli.
gion," 1809, thia eneodote ia ~ mwe !lif®.JJ~IItantif.lly. He
.,.,
" I ua aoq..-Wcl with a Rllllilll gen~ IIi ~who lilq
a .r~ft~BP&able o8iQe, but. ia ~ tb !111JD.e •a •1rli~Y aulip;l{tj!ne4 .
~¥,.ip,. and, genelf!ly a~ng, 111 u;qallent men. Thi.•
~~ ~ Jl!f, t!lat he W!l8 w.all...oqlllliat&d••f.Dd .on ipti,
...,te -~' with the Rulll!ie,n am~. who. reaid~ m~y
P.J.r!l .~t StocktaQlm~ during Swed~borg'a ~~~- ~ wbaa-
~ .!l'ld. Swed,en~ often 111~ togetlae:J:; he had of~ .-n
tla!! J,aU.ef in ~ ~~. and .talul le!Lmt wonderful thing. f~
~· The ~l' in :wlUoh S~enborp; auisted a qert&W
widow to liad ~ receipt, and :flgardiiJg "ffhioh he h1111 been
JI!ICUI8d of.~ptJ-011, took place in ~;eal.ity u follow, :-4 re-
~le ~ in Stookhobn boqght 1111 eatata of: enother, p.td
for .it. and ree.ivecl an aoknowl~~.• ·Tha puchaMr. died
~ .t'ter; end a _~g time had not elapaed, before the seller
~dad· payment of the widow for the ea~. threat&~ her
~.he woa14 otherwise t.ke ~n ofit again. The widow
~-~;aha ~w that her hDibad W paid for-the ~t&,
aocl.pal8al'Chfo,::.tha zeceiP*, whiob, howayer,llhe wu unable
to ~.an1 ~~- . nu ~~ •fright; &Ad ..
~- ~ hpband W.btt~JJrOilfiiendly ~ ..Pth the Rue.
~.--~.!\lie laad,~to him.
".Th• amllu~dor knew tiona ·expe~. wM.t ~atauoe
Sw;edenb<q ltllll o~nally atforded in ach CIIMI; Gil aa..tbe
widow: waa uot bown ~ U~n, ~ -bulador wulertook the
~Qtter, He •po~e, tharalbre, wi~ S~nborg, tile fiut:oppo~:,
taky, ud "*«<IDIIIellllad tiN c~ of the widow 1D him. .Some
_,.altar,~~ oame1D til~ .~Q1:, Gd. .,._~
IWD to teU tbe widow, tlvu on au.ch a ~ll.t, l\111' \\~1\i\o·_.,\il.
416 NOI'IIIo
appear to lacr at ~ o'clock, IIIICi -~~~ telllur..._ tM I'Mipt
•
loy. However terrible this might BMm to the widow, yetlilt
W1lll obliged to consent to it, because the payiug for the ..alita
second time would have rendered her poor, or would eYell laaft
been impractiCable to her. She, therefore, 'ftlli.gned henelf w
her fate, sat up on lite uight appointed, and retained a ell_...
maid with her, who, however, soon began· to fall uleep, ...
Ollllld by no means be kept awake: At iwelYa o'cloalt the cleo
caaaed aJIPeared ; he looked grave, and as though clUpleued; ...
then pointed out to the widow the place where the receiptlay.
namely, in a certain room, in a little desk attached to the nil;
on which be disappeared. The widow went the next 1110n1iJ1rto
the place he had indicated, and found the receipt."
Another aneodote of Swedenborg'a faculty of preeentimftrtia
inserted in the same work, which was related to the authorby
one, who, from his piety and love to truth, must be Teg&rded u a
credible witnesa. " I was in Amsterdam,'' says this indiYidaal,
" in the year 176!, on the very day that Peter the 'I'bDd.
Emperor of Rusaia, died, in a company, in which Swed•~
"as present. In the midst of our oonYersation, hie coUD~
changed, and it was erident that hie soul was no longer preNIIl.
and that something extraordinary was pasaing in him. AI 110011
aa be came to himself again, he was asked what had happened to
him. He would not at first communicate it, but at lengtll, alter
being repeatedly requested, be said, • This very hour, the Em-
peror Peter III. baa died in his prison, (mentioning at the -
time, the manner of hie death.) Gentlemen will pi- to DOlle
down the day, that they may be able to compare it witla tile
intelligence of his death in !he ne1r1papera.' The latter _.
uqaently announced the 'F..m~'v. ~.u.-~\Dim~
ou that da,.."
Nlltii'T.--A llimil£ circmut8llce -.ned to a relati:re of the
u..laW•,who, MriDgliMn placed in hi8 yoaDger yean with a
~.- ooe .day workiDg at a aodel, when he aud-
-.Iy- ., fiom m. ~teU, and in a fi& or ~. walked to
the Oppoate end of tJae room. On arri'ring there, he began to
J'IIIINft biJua1f' for thu lea'ring his work without my·reaou,
111111 - jaR oa the poiDt or l'8t1lnliJI! to it, when the oeiliDg
.Ucml tM Jll- where he had been Bi.tting, g.ve way, md fell
Dundiat.ely upoa it, duhing to pi- the model, at which the
~before he had beenworking. Themutercabinet-m&ker,
though by DO" me&~~~~ a piciua character, .... deeply Btrnck by this
n.ible illtelpollitiOil or Di't'ine Proridence, and could not avoid
opaaly MOribing the yogng man'• WODderfal 8IIC8p8 to the true
-·
Nat1 8.-The f'oUowing very mnubble dream is related in
.. the Times" DeWBJMiper or16th August, 18!8.
u1n the night of the 11th of May; 181!, Mr. Williams, or
s-rier boue, near Redruth, in Connrall, awoke his ~fe, and
eaeedingly agitated, told her, that he had d%eamed that he was
in the lobby ofthe House orCommona, md nw a man shoot with
• piltol,. sentlemn who had just entered the lobby, who -
aaid to be the chBDCellor: to which Mrs. WilliBDlS nat.mlly
replied, that it wu ouly a dream, and 1'9C01DJDended hlm to be
CIOIIIJIM8d, aad go to sleep aa aoou u he eould. He did 10, bnt
ahortly after again awoke her, 1111d aid,· that he had the Be<lond
time had the- dream ; whereupou abe oherved, that he had
been10 much agitated with·hi8 former dream, that she ·suppoMid
itW d-ltonlaU mind, and begel\ of ma ~ ~ ~ --~
him.BBlf, and !0 to aleep, which he did. A tlliid time, the -
Tilion wu repeated; on which, notwitlultaDdlng bet' 8lltNiaiel
that he would lie quiet, and ·endenour to f'moget. it, lie - ·
being then bet1re8n one and two o'clock, 8Dd u-cl himlel£
At brellkfaat, the dreams·were the .eole eubjeot of. COilfti'Rtioa;
IIDCl in the Conmomi.Mr. Wil.liama weD.t to FUboath, whwe lie
related the particnl11111 oftbain to·aU of·Ilia aeq'GIIilataMe tht lie
met.· On the mllowin« 'day, Mr. Tuelrer of a'~ Clllle.
aot!JQipWed by bis wifll, a d.agbter df' Mr, WiiU....·we.& tt
Soorrier bouee alloat duak. liDm•iately afteto tbe tnt --..
ti01111,·on their enteriDg the parlour, where were Mr., MI'L, ,_.
lllias William&, Mr. Willidlll began.to ·relate to I&. 'hcllr
the circum1tancea oC hi.-dream; Mid Mn. Williama obeemlitt
her daughter, Mrs. Tucker, laughingly, that her father coalchll
even sufi'er Mr. Tucker to be seated, before he told him of hia
nocturnal visitation: on the statement of which, Mr. Tacker
observed,.that it would do very well for a clream to bAve thf
chancellor in the lobby of the Houe o( Commons,· but that ..
would not be found there in reality: and Mr. Tucker then aaked
what sort of man be appeared to be, when Mr. William~ Jli.
nutely deaeribed him; to which Mr. Tucker replied 1 Yoar
deaeription is not at all that of the chancellor, but ia certaialy
tery exactly that of Mr. Percenl, the chancellor of the ascbe-
quer; and although be baa been to me the greatest enemy I -
met with through life, for a supposedcaoae, which had no (01111-
dation in truth, (or words to that efFect,) I aboold be a:~
sorry indeed to bear of his being aas.ainated, or ofany illjuryof
the lrind bappeniag to him, Mr. Tucker then eaquired ol Mr.
WilliiiDII if he had ever eeen Mr. Pereenl, 8Dd.,.. told that M
never had seen him, uot b.e.<la"Vet a'!-....m.'-'-"-'ln~. ~~"'
!10'1'11.
publio or printe baaiaeM; in Uort, that he uver had, had my
~gtodowithhim., norhadheeverbeenin thelobbyofthe Hou.
ofCWD~Dou inhialife. At thil -ut, whila Mr. WUliama
mel Mr. Tllllker were ltillatmding, they baud a hone pllop 110
the dooroftheh011118, melimmediately after, Mr.Michael WilliiiiUI
of Treviuer (aon of Mr. WilliiiiUI of Scorrier) entered the room,
and eaid, that he had galloped out from Truro, (Ctom which
Scerrier i8 dutaut 88ven milea,) having aeen a gentleman there,
who had oome by tha evening'a mail from Loudon, who eaid that
ke wu in the lo'bby ofthe Houae ofCommou on the eYening of
the 11th, when a man called Bellingham had lbot Mr. Perceval;
mel that 88 it might ocoeaion aome great miniat.erial.changea. and
~ ai8otMr. Tucker'• political frimda,. he had come out 88
Caat.aa he could, to make him aeque.intecl with it,-having hearcl It
Truro, tlllt. he had.P8818Cl thtongh that placeill the aftemooa OA
~ YBy to Scorder. After the •tolliabmsnt which thia intelli-
pace hed cnated, W a little aubaided, Mr. Willi- dMcribed
- tpertioularly tJr.e appeeraaae and dreaa of the aim that he
aew in hi• dream fire the pistol, 88 he had ~- clone o£ Mr.
Percaval. Abou' Biz weeb after, Mr. WilliiDIIIIIaving buineaa
iD.to-, Well*' IIOG9aptmie4 h18friead, to theJ:l011118of t-41'111,
where, a, baa been already ob&an'ed, he had ne'er before beG.
Immediately that he came to the 1tepa a\ the ena-- of tae
lobh7, Jae IBid, 'Thi• plaoe il.88. diaQDCdy withinmyrecoll"tiq.
in ~ dreea, 88 UJ --.in my JaoUH;.' 1111d lle IDBIIa the ~
oNern,Uon wlaen he ~ the lobby. He thaD pointed oot the
~ apot where :sew.p~m atood. wheD lle 6l'tld. ud -"'~
Mr. P~ had relelhe4 Jtbea he wu alnck by1be bell,.-
wllera ad ~a-• leU. Tlle:d!Mt.·both,of.l!k. Perwm:aacl
Belliarhlm. ~ widl tiJe.ct-iptiCNII F~eD by~•..\i'iJlillllll,
neu to the mea minute particular." . ~·· ~ ..":.
"The Times" stateB, that Mr. Willimu - tb8ll aliYe, 1114
the wiaa-, to whom be made lnaowu the puticalars of ..
dnun, were elso li'ring; mel thai the editor bad reoeiflMl the
statement from a oorreepondent o( maqoestionable Yencity.
N.u 9. The striking ad import1111t faot, Ntabliabed by tD
remarkable narratin, that.prayer f'or the dead i1, at 1-.tia -
- . nailing, and therefore aoceptable to God, will d011~
startle many a piona reader, and appear to him u opening the
door to sll the abuee ,..bicb are cummtlypractised bythe chanh
of Rome iD reference to it. Let na bear ll'hat our author uys
farther upon this subject, premiaing, however, that there ialitde
reaaon to apprehend in protestant coontries, in the pn118nt day,
a rec:urreuce to obeolete abuses, and thai there are few who ue
10 much in love with prayer as to expend it on what is generally
eonceived so hopeleas a subject.
In the " Pocket Book for the Friends of Religion," 1810, our
author replie• to the inquiry, "whether it ia lawful to pray for
the dead," by saying," The article• of faith of the Prote81Ut
church anawer decidedly in fhe negative; because they establilh
the principle, that at death the eternal destiny of the indi'ridul
ia irreYooably decided. But thia ia contradicted by the beliefof
the whole Christian church, from the.timea ofthe apoetlee don
to the Reformation, u -n u by ,.._ md experience. The
Bible dON not decide the point; yet it giYea binta reprdi.Dg w
OODti.Duanoe of the purilicatioa ofthe eoul Uter death ; aud iftile
lattertakes place,pnyetfot ~elw\~~-~~---
be detrimental in any cue.
4St
.. In a OOilliderable to-in whioh l'dwelt, there lived an indi-
vidual who was altogether a Biere IDIII1 of ihe world, 1111d had 110
feeling for any thing good or'beautilul ib.-theworld,except IIIOil8y
and property. To obtain theee, all hia dol18 were directed, and
he gan himself no concem about God &nd religion, with the
exception of the outward ceremonies of·the ehlirch. Thil man
had a son, who was jlllt the contrary to his father; he was 1reU-
iafonned,·sincerely pioue, and 1Usceptible of all that was good
ud beautiful. Nothing moved hie father, whillt he was &f'ected
by uery thing; and when hia father'• houae wll8 too hot for
him, he·waa accustomed to come to me, end tell me all hii heiut.
When he was ofa auiicient age to llllllTYwith deoenoy, his father
deltined him a wife, who had money, and whosti father had: the
.me aantimenta as himeelf. It did not at all depend upon my
young friend, whether he would be able to love the girl or not ;
it.was auticieilt that abe Wll8 ricla, ·and thought as her parents
and her fUture mther-in-laiv did. · :Myfriend obeyed; he married,
aad beNme ·the ·•lave of an• unfeelillg Womllll, and Of avaricious
puenta.
The yowag maa gave himaelfall-pblllible:trou'ble fo iBitil pious
-~til into hi• wif8: ·he treated her e:rtremely Blildly and
amiably, and prevented her in eWi,. -reuollable;wieh; ·but;he
perceived .no' ch~~~~p in her-'ehe eont:iMred a:frigid and -imftl-
oeptible creature. · · .: .. " :
' Thil couple ~- thue tWo tears together; thttWOID.im Wli
then lllised with a Tiolent twer-, end: di8d, without':her··husband
remarking even the el:ipteet chmige·
m:heto orany dame for be'r
eternal alvadon. Thie•griWlld'.him'deeply; and there aroliein
JDe eoul an unceasing iuteroeesion for the lllvation of hil wife.
Ha did 110t zdeot whtdtet ttaD;.,...··~~ ~'~!> ~~..,,~
hi!fohurch; but followed hia inward impubMt, and oontiDuecl thil
in~ pray~tt for a •hole Y*• On the IIIJiiveraary of the day
9ll wbioh hia wife died, thCI iapul8e_to pray for her.,_ ltill
.uo~r; .h11 roee. 114l'\1 iu the IDOllling, w&Dt to • &taat 1M
gloomy fotest. pray.d thlll:9 ~ w)j.ole dsy with indesoribablt
eiP'»esmiiSs,. $11d .t9tumed b.ome in the evening petfec:tly a-
quUli$1!Cl.
The Jlert ~omi~~g be 1V!'Dt to bia father, in order to illqain
after.!lis chilli; .Col: hia.•iJI hacll11t't him - that- ucnr ebo.t
a JIIV.o~. 'J'h" grmdfathef had taku. charge·of it, ~ lit
AAd pe~qa allout him.who could attend toit;..which- DOt1M
4)11118 with ~.lqll•.
A4 4100n. as the fathe~: s.alV him, be said, with au 1lDWGIItlll
degree of aym.pathy, " I '!rill tell you. IOIDethiDg : yoar wife
was yesterday evening with me." The aon wu atruck with
astonishment, and exclaimed, "Whatl-fatherl-my wife!"
"No othe.,/' rejoined the old man; "for, on entering my bed·
room yeste~ay evening about 10 o'clock, after und~g my·
self, I got into bed, and W1l8 still sitting up in it, after extinguiUI-
ing the light, 1rh~ the bodily fig11re ofyour 1rife came iu at the
door. Sb(l went to the cradle ofyour child, whioh wu aleepills
in H, 11n~ ~t ove.r it awhile ; .she then beoame quite light,10
that she shone, and at\envards aoared away again.'' This ap~
rition caused uncommon joy to the young man ; he wu qnita at
-... in oollll8qlle,Doe. His father felt astonished ; but this '11'11
all; .ha conQnu~ wltat h11 was before,- m-.ible, 1VOrldly·
~!lded lllSD--.an additional proof that apperiticma of spirits JIIO'
d11c~ liUle or.nq,etfeot on \J!.e 'illlprov~ent or connnicm of the
indivi.~"Qal.
WhQeverpo111181111e1 e.'alr«\l!li\~·Q\~--.,""' .:o\\...ru-1
·--
tllat tlUa apparition .... - 'WOrk· oltheimagination; ro•thie·old
IUa wu iDcapable ofnch liD illusion."
.A limilar U.tanoe of the _.silillc.r ol prayer for departed aO.t.,
il fumiBhed. byclur autJaOr ia tbe .-. work;- tbr the ye*t811>
It ia 88 Collowa :- ' ' ... , .
.·, '1·:·..
&tract qfa Utttirfr~ an en!i.gflttflld.~ t.c&mt4:d;lli.u.l.in. &a.
fll1rllu( Ger.,tay~. , . 1
" I will now, in eoooluion; meation to' yiju a vtb-y· edit;Lig
atory ofan apparition, tOr.~ troth ofwhich I ea:d vouch;1ridl'all
that. ia dear to me. My late mother,-a pattem of trne piet;'; liDd
who - OODtinually ~gaged in prayer,loat, quite imliEpeetl!dlt,
.aar a abort illneu, arising frOm •-thtaat, my·yotmgetliirter,
a pd of about fonrteen years ofage. Now, 88 clariDg herillileaa
alae had DOt apobn mach with her oli apiritaal nbjectl, by no
meaua supposing her end 10 118111' (althongh my father had done
10), abe reproliched and ¢eved herselfmoat profoundly•DOt only
OIJ, this account, bot alao for not having ao6Ciently nursed IDd
attended upon her, or tOr having neglected lbmething that might
have brought on her death. This feeling took 80 much bold of
her, that she DOt only altered mooh in her appearance, from lo81
of appetite, bot became 80 monosyllabic in apeaking, that abe
-•r e.xpreued hen~elf; except on bemg·in~gated. She still
however continued to pray diligently in ·her chamber. Being
elra8dy grown up at the time, I ~hrith my father reapeCtinA-
ber, and ulced him what wu to be done, lind how IIJY good mo-
ther might be comforted. He ahrogged up bia ehooldera, and
gave me to 1Uideretand, that onl- God interpoaed, he feared the
worat.. Now it hsppenecl; that some days after, when we were
all toptber, oDe laDdayJIIOIDiDs, a clluc\1,-,.i\\\~ <~~"Ui.q'O..~
JIOTD,
of ray mother, who I8ID8iDed at hcnM, that em rWJif up tr.
prayer, in her cloeet, abe bard a JlllliM, u t:ho.p IIIOIIle OM,.
with,her in the 100m. 0. lookiag about to ~• ...._
the noiee pniCIIdecl, IIOIM&hing .took llold of her inriaibly, ad
pre111ed her firmlyto it, u i£ehe had been embnced by--·
and the aame moment, ehe beard-without Meing any thingwldt-
ever-very dietinctly, the voice oCher departed daughter, cel1il«
out quite plainly to her, • M11111mt1! M4-! I 4a 10 1aiJppJI I a
., luJppyI' Immediately aftR theae worda,the p1'8R11J'8 .ublided,
ad mymother felt and heard nothiog more. But what a willleii-
Cor llhange did we all perceive in our dear motller, 011 eo8ilr
~I She had regained her speech and former ~·;
ehe ate and drank, and rejoiced with u. at the mercy wllich 6e
Lord had beetowed upon her ; nor during her whole lite did •
evernotice again,with.grief, the great loss which she bad llllfered
by the deoeue of this excellent daughter."
This event took place at Levin, a village belonging to tie
duchy of Mecklenburg, not far from Demmin, in PruaaianP01ae·
rauia, in the year 1759, the Sunday before Michaelmu.
Nota 10.-ln the journal of the Reverend John Wesley, dlere
is an account given ofan apparition, which in manyreapectabeut
great similarity to the foregoing, and muat be acoountell ~Oil
aimilar principle&. It wu related by the gentlewoman hentlf,
and is as follows :-
"About thirty years ago, I waa addreaaed, by way of-n.r.
by Mr. Richard Mercier, then a voliiDteer in the lll'IDJ. 1\e
youDg gentleman we.a (\U\IZ\21:~, "" ~"" ~. ""- Clwlerillt.
JIIOI'U.
whuemylatlaerlived, whoapprovedof'hitl addreue1, and directed
De to look upon him u my future huband. Wlaen the regiment
left the town, he promiaecl to retarD in two months, and many
-· From Charleville he went to Dublin, theuoe to hia Cather's,
md £rom thence to England; where, his lather having bought
bim a cometcy of hone, he purcheeed many omiiDlllntll for the
ndding, and :returning to Ireland, let Ul Jmow that he would be
K our bonae iu Charleville, in a few daya. On thitl, the famUy
lt'U buaied _
to prepare for hi1 reception, and the ensuing mar-
riage; when one night, my aiater Mary and I being uleep in our
bed, I wu awakened by the sudden.opening of ti!e Bide curtain,
md starting up, 11aw Mr. Mercier 11tanding by the bed-side. He
na wrspped_up in a loose sheet, and had a napkin, folded like a
1ight cap, on his head. He looked at me very eameatly, and
.ifting up the napkin, ·which much ahaded his face, showed me
the left 11id_e of his head alll>loody, and covered with hi• brains:
the room, Uleantime, wu quite light. My terror was excessive,
IFhich wu increued by his stooping over the bed, and embracing
11111 in his arm11•.My criea alarmed the whole family, who cam!!
:rowding into the room. Upon their entrance, he gently with-
Jrew hU arUll and uceuded, u it were, through the ceiling. . I
lOiltinued for some time in strong 1ita. When I could apealr, I
:old them what I had -n. One of them, a day or two after,
JOing to the postmilllter for letters, Cound him reading the news-
!IIP8D;· in which wu an accOUllt, that Comet Mercier, going
Jato Chriatehurch belfry, iu Dublin, just after the bells had been
iuging, &lid atllnding under the bella,. one o£ them, whic;h was
:arned bottom upward~, auddenly ~ llg&in, struck one Bide of
1ia head; and killed.him on tb!l.apot•. On furtber inquiry, we
OaDd .1»,..•t.ruak on the let\ aide ofbi1\1M!'
Noli 11.-The viewwldeb om lllltbor Bi••ofappllllitiou6a
the iari1ibllf wor14~ hai ina.DypoiliU,allllrikiag:ftiNIIIW..tt
thil ~entimenu·whioh. the Mvqail cl.drlinay, 8 pioa11 F.-
proteetimt Writer; '!Vh0118 ;n;,b·wen pabalihe4 about • ,_
t'TSS, upreil1188'cni this .Ubjeot. · Hi write. u Colloww:-
"I betieYe that there at&thH.·.Jdnd of epiriu, whi.b reantil
thii 'W'Orld after the death of tllMI' bodie~. Tb6 ~· of.-.
are iii a 8tate ofomideJII!IatiOII, and which ue in a •errJlli-we
ciOildition, hoverabout aDd MIIDtthe jlt.esW'hiiNtJMy baq-
mitted their el'il ~eds and iniq11itie.,• They NmaiD at ._
placies by dirine permiteion,· and dO'all the nil tJ.ey can, wWIII
at the-e dme they.sder intol.eable to1'D1811ta, aud - Yfll1
malignant. Some ofthis !rind o(1pirit8 ooeuicmally.U..._.
selves ...Wble, which 11'61 the cue ·<Wy a ehart time &8'0• Fort
pious clergyman wrote Crom the place, where he is ltill ami-
nister, that a man, whom be himHllhad baptized, lllld who, aftlr
leading a wicked life, threw himHll into a well, and clrowDe.t
himself, having previously thrown hie dog into it, htld ..._
abewn himaelf. Tbiti event happened in the Pahtiufe., jill
when the French troops were at the place; who ehortly aft!er1M
death of this man, (whoee body had been drawn up out of*
well, and buried in anotherplace,)placed a sentinel nnrtM...U.
It eo happened, in the night, the sentinel sa,.. the figure ofa-
at this well; he called out, ' Who's there t' bat reeeirillf 110
&IIIWer, he fired at the figure, but withoot el"ect; on wbicll tM
IN!Dtinel ran upon theman with hill drawn aword, but he"f''llli...
a.....y. Tbie event occuioned a great noise in the villlp, _.
the man waa afterwerd1 aeen aenral timee at the ,...u..,
" The aecond kind of spirits are those which - about, ...
cause they seek tofne\n_\,lllltom.'lll..a.,--. \\\~
HOTU. 4S'T
byother mllBDI than by raaignationto Di'fine jutice ; hence they
eee1r help from thoae that fear God, and in so doing, withdraw
themselves from the Di'fine order. One or this kind or spirits
,Jaewed itaelt to me, in a nry evident man~er; but after I bad
directed it to ]eaus Christ, its Saviour and Redeemer, it re-
tariled 110 more. These ·a're not e'fil spirits, litit such as are still
in their aelt--,rill, ad therefore refuse to yield to tlie Divine
order, by voluntarily submitting to tbe punishment imposed upon
them, even as thoee mistaken soula do in this life, whom God
conduots into the path of obscure faith, and into the trials and
dlietiona whlch accompany purification, to which they will not
llllbmit, and aeek, though fnritleasly, other·aid, instead ofresign-
iug _tlaemilelves to God1 and patiently and submissively enduring
all that aftlicta them. But because they will not act thus, they
are ont of the Di'fine order, by which means they only prolong
UICl increaae their sufferings, and maketheir purification so much
the more diJiicult and painful."
" The third kind of spirits, or rather souls that re-appear, are
~. whose punishment is to be at some certain place in this
world, beoauae they have stitiafied their passions in that place,
uullived according to their lnsts in an idolatroua manner; for
that which now caueee a man lust and pleasure, must hereafter
Mrre u his pain and punishment. Of this we have several in-
.aooea. Amongst others, that ofa piousman,who after his death,
l!pllN.t9d to his dsughtsr, who was likewise a pious person, and
aft8r conversing with her some time on hie state, he began to
tuna pale, to tremble, and be much distressed ; and said to his
dtaghter, that the time was now arrived, when he must go and
Nmllillfor a time in hie grave, with his putrifying and corrupting
eorpee; and that this happened to him evety ~~~..,, '\)~~:o..,'l\.'~>'11> \.~'I>.\.,.
!G
life-time, he had had.too mucJa afFection Uld tsndemea b llil
body."
In a later work of our author'a, already referred to, (Pocbt
Book for the Friends of Religion, for 1814,) be iDaerta a lettlr,
containing a similarly striking occummce; which hepremiiNlly
eaying, that he is acquainted with the whole fiun.ily ofthe wriw.
parent& and children, and vonchea for the truth of tbe narratifto
in 10 far as the account given by a heart tlaat lovea God and P.
troth can be trusted and confided in. The letter is u followa:-
"My brother, I. H. C., was placed by a certain reiguias
prince, as doctor ofmedicine in A-, and on account of his pec:a·
liar abilities, the title ofAulic counsellor wu at the smne time
conferredupon him. Heresidedthere aboutfour years, towardsthe
close ofwhich, he resolved, at the requeat of my late father, tAl
return to H-, in order to be of service to him, u well as to 1M
rest ofhis family. We ardently looked for hia arrival for som•
weeks, but in vain. During this state of hopeful 8Ip8Ct8tioo of
soon being able to embrace my brother, I dreamed, one night, a
short time before Christmas, that I saw my brother'on horseback•
who said to me, that be was on a journey; he would therefore
give me several commissions to my parents. I observed that bit
expression ofcountenance appeared very strange, and asked him
why he looked so blue-black in the face1 on which be madt'
answer, that it was occasioned by the new cloak he had put 111,
which was dyed with indigo. On this, he reached me his hand.
but whilst giving him mine, his horse began to plunge, wbieh
terrified me, and I awoke. Not long after awaking, the door rJ
my room opened, some one came to my bed-side, and drew uidr
the curtains, when I perceived the natural figure of my brotlltr
in his night-gown. A.ite1: llo\'il.ul\i.u"t'lll.~:ite.,...{'"' minutes, he wt11
-
table, ....,.----~--...- - - - -
-~~oar.-. P....., I . . . . . . wwp ....
BaCh a dep'ee. tM& I -Y.._,. ia W _,-....... l
clayelllellt.-.,'W'ilo*owi• •a.-...-
-tomy~ Oa~dlect..ller.Id.e.._.,
therwuutoaUhecl,aai---dle-.6..,- ~
«· I '--gilt JD. tD ...... - widt die _._ ~
omnr, 111111 ODly penDt-to. - •aipt .iaIlia-. "'
, he aaeeuted. Aa- •1-Gb iD die --.. I -
UpoD by my ,..C. to ntlafe wUl Jaad loq; I F•• •JUeh
liest !lister COilir...t. Tile~ ----.-t-
) my Cather, who, • is well lmowa.is by ao - ..,._..
aa, thathe noted down the mptaad die Jaov. Alloat three
.alter, my father receiYed the-'uc1aalyiauiJis-ofay
1r'1 d-; when it ~. that be W died tlMo
light, and the -hoar,ofuepideaic~. m11'hieb
l been aulfocated, aud biat.ce bad 'b-- qwitB ltiKk. Ill
It daysofhiailbleu, he bad8p0kenCODtimaallyofbia&mily,
wl wished for nothing more ardently, thu to be able to
once more with me."
-, 24th July, 1811.
' 12.-To illustrate and confirm the variona relatiina and
.ants giyen by our author respecting apparitions ~m the
>le world, we subjoin a most remart.ble account of a de-
d faculty ofp~aentimeut, extracted from the journal o(the
robn Wealey, who has premised it with a few remarb,
manifest a striking coincidence with tbe view1 and aenti-
expreaaed by our author,
t G 2
JIO'I'Ua
"!5th May, 17'68.-Being at SUDderland, 1 took dowD, frca
one who had feared God from her Uafancy, Oll8 or the 1tr1Dp11
acconnta I ever read ; BDd yet I CBD find DOpretence to di1betilft
it. The well-known chazaciter of the penon aobade1 Ill -
picion offraud, air.d the nature of the circlllllltacel th-uhw,
excludes the po1111ibility ofa deluliOD.
It ia' true there 8re severil of th-1 do not compreh_.,Rl
this is with me a very alender obj.atiOilf tbr what ia it wbiclaI
do comprehend, even of things whleh I .lee.daily1 Tralyaot
• the smallest grain of sand or spire or graq.' I bowiMit llow
the one grows, nor how the particles ofthe other adhere toptblr.
What pretence have I then to deny welktt81ted facti, 'becla.l
cannot comprehend them1
It is true, likewise, that the Englilh in general, and iad.ecl
most of tbe men of learning in Europe, have giT&n up all aeeoG!dl
ofwitches and apparitions, as mere old wivea' fables. I am IIOriY
for it; and I willingly take tbia opportunity of entering my •
lemn protest against this violent compliment, which 110 many that
believe the Bible, pay to those who do not believe it. I on
them no such service. I take knowledge that the1e are It tM
bottom ofthe outcry which has been raised, and with sueh in·
Molence spr~ad throughout the nation, in direct opposition, 1101
only to the Bible, but to the suffrages of the wisest and beltaf
men in all agesand natioD8. They wellknow, (whether Chriltial
knowit ornot,) that thegivingup ofwitchcraft• is,ineffect,gi"f'iDI
up the Bible ; and they know, on the other hand, that if btd..,
acrountofthe intercauneofmentDith. uparatupirita H <Ui.Utud,t/Nir
tolwle ca#le in the crir ( Deim, .Atheim, Materialiltoa,) fall. r.. dl
Jr"•nutd. I know no reason, therefore, why we ehaald IUtfer ev•
•TbeOllC'n.unuot~ ... ~--- .
thia weapcm tobewnaedo.tof_......... IDol-.~~ 1111-
meroQII argumenta bead•, which abaDdady eomlate ...U ftUI
imagibatioua, bat - MM liiDt be 1leolllll oG of - ; Midler
l'NBOn nor re1ig:ioanqm..tlaU.
Ooe of the capital objectioaa to aD tiM. ~o:: .... ....tDcla l
han known urged over aud. OYer, ill thU:-•Did JW ttr«- an
apparition youne111' No, _.did I eYer- a .ucler, yfll I be-
lieve there ill ~nch a thiDg ; yea, llllddaa& iA- p1Me orIIDOther,
murder ill oemmittedeYsryday. ·TherefiJre lcauuot.• •-a-
able man, deny the Dot; although I llll'l'er - it, ad perhapa
never may. The teetimouy of unexc:eptionable wi~ fully
convmces me, both of the one and the other.
Elisabeth HobBGD wu bom iD Sunderlmd, iA the yfi!V 1744.
Her rather dyiag wben she wu three or folU'yean old, her liDille,
Thomu Rea, a pious man, brought her up u hill owu daugh~-
8Jle wu serious from a ohild, and grew up in the fear of God.
Yet she had deep and sharp convictions of lin, till she wu about
mteen yean.ofage, when she found peace with God, md from
thattime, the whole tenor of her behaviour was auitable to her
profeslion.
On Wednesday, May f5th, · 1768, and the ~ following
days,I talked with her at larte; but it wu with great clliliculty I
prevailed on her to speak.- The nb~ce of what she said·was
aa fo'llows :-
"·From my childhood, when any of our n~tghbotirs ilied, whe-
ther men, women, 'or children, I uaed to aee them, either just
when they died, or a little before; nor w ·I ai all afraid, it W..
10 common. Indeed, many times I did not then know they were
dead; I saw many ofthem by day, many by night. Those that
came when it was dark, brought light 'Wi1h 1h~l'l\.. 1..·\)'\\~'"~
little cbildrea and many gro'wu p8nona11.t4 \\. "bnt,~. t).~~
YOT.II,
light round them; but IDIDY had a gloomy, dillll8l light, and •
duaky cloud oYer them.
"When I told my uncle this, he did not lhl8ll1 to be at all nr·
prieed at it, but several times said, •Be not afraid, only take cue
to fear and eern God;. u long u he it on your aide, none will be
able to hurt you.' At other times he eeid,-dropping a word DOW'
and then, butaeldemaniiWeriug me any questione about it,-•E'ril
spirits very seldom appear but between elenn at night and two
in the morning; but after they have appeared to the periOD a
year, they frequently Joome in the day time, Whatever spirita,
good or bad, come in the day, they come at aunriee, at noon, aDd
at sunset.'
"When I waa between twelve and thirteen, my uncle hid a
lodger, who"Waa a verywicked man. One night, I W1l8 sitting iD
'f!lY chamber, about halfan hour after ten, having by aceidant pet
out my candle, when he came in all over in a iame. I cried out,
' William, whydoyou comeinso to frightme1' He aaiduothiDg,
but went away. I went after him into hi• room, but..foUlld he
waa fut asleep in bed; a day or two 'after he fell ill; and within
the week, died in raging despair.
"I waa between fourtsen and fit\een, when I went very euly
one morning to fetch up the kine. I had two fielda tO orou into
a low groUDd, which wu uid to be haunted. Many pei'IOIII had
been frighted there, and I had myeelfot\en aeen men and w~
(10 many at times, that they are out ofCOUDt,) go juat byme, 81141
vanish away. This morning, 88 I came towards it, I haard •
confused noise, 88 ofmany people quarrelling: but I didnotllliud
it, and went on till I came near the gate. I then aaw on the
other side, a young man, dressed in purple, who said, •It is toO
early; go back from whence you-oame, and the Lord·bewithyou,
ud bleas yOll:' ~Uld ~ftMll.\\'l ~I!."'''V. \llll.~.
•• When I was about sixteen, my uncllf f'ell ill, and grew worse
md worse f'or three months. One day, having been sent out on
an errand, I was coming home through a lane, when I saw him in
the field, coming swiftly towards me. I ran to meet him, but he
waa gone. When I came home, I f'ound him calling f'or me. As
soon u I came to his bed..ide,heclupedhisarmsround my neck,
md bursting into tears, earnestly exhorted me to continue in the
ways of God, kept his hold, till be sunk down and died ; and
eyen then they could hardly unclasp his fingers. I would Cain
have died with him, and wished to be buried with him, dead
or alive.
"From that time, I was crying from morning till night, and
praying that I might see him. I grew weaker and weaker, till
one morning, about one o'clock,. as I wall lying, crying as usual,
I heard some noise, and rising up, saw him come to the bedside.
He looked much displeued, shook his head atme, and in a minute ·
or two went away.
"About a week after, I took to my bed, ~d grew worse and
worse, till in six or seven days my lif'e waa despaired of'. Then
about eleven at night, my uncle came in, looked well pleased,
and sat down on the bed-side. He came eyery night after, at the
eame hour, and stayed till cock-crowing. I wu exceeding glad,
and kept my eyes fixed on him all the time he stayed. If I
wanted drink, or any thing, though I did not apeak or stir, he
(etched it, and sat it on the chlir bythe bed-side. Indeed I could
not speak. Many times I lltrove, but could not move my tongue.
Every morning, when he went away, he waved his hand to
me, and I heard delightful mnaic, ·aa if'many personswere singing
together.
II [D about m 'lt'Hb I grew bettet. l ,... '&.tiD. u.'\U>\'\l.~ """'"'
lfO'I'II·
night, whether I did well in deairil)g he might come, and I wu
praying that God would do his own will, when he oame in, IIIII
stood by the bed.eide. But he wu uot iu Jais usual dreBI; he had
on a white robe, which reached down to his feet. He looked
quite well pleased. About oue, there stood by him a person ill
white, taller thau he, and exceedingly beautiful. He came with
the singingaa ofmany voices, and continued till uear cook-erowiag.
Then my uncle smiled, and waved his hand towards me twice or
. thrice. They went away with inexpresaibly sweet IIUlllic, and I
saw him no more.
"In a year after this, a young mau courted me, and in -
months we agreed to be married. But he purposed to ta!r;e ao-
ther voyage first, aud one evening went on board his ship. Abolll
eleven o'cloclc, going out to look for my mother, I 81111" him
standing at his mother's door, with his hands iu his pockets, ud
. his hat pulled over his eyes. I went to him, and stretched oul
my hand to put up his hat, but he went swiftly by me, and I saw
the wall, on the other side of the lane, part, as he went through.
and then immediately close after him. At ten the next morniag,
he died.
" A few days after, John Simpson, one of our neighboun, a
man that truly feared God, and one with whom I was particularly
acquainted, went to sea, as usual. He sailed out on a Tue.Uay.
The Friday night following, between eleven and twelve o'clock,
l heard one walking in my room, and every step &ollllded as if he
was stepping in water. He then came to Lhe bed-aide in his -
jacket, all wet, and stretched his hand over me. Three drops of
water fell on my breast, and felt as cold as ice. I atrove to wab
his wife, who lay with me; but I could not, any more than ifsh<>
was dead. A£terwardlllb.11arll ~11.\ b."'"'"._~,.
...,.., 'ili>."llo.'l. ~~'--
In1-thaD a miDat.e .be went away : but he came to me every
night. Cor lix or seven nightt followiDg, between eleven and two.
Belore .be Clllll8, ud when he went away, I alwaye heard sweet
mu.sic. Afterwards he came both day and night; every night
about twelve, with the mllllic athie coming and goiug; and every
day at ellllrise, noon, and eunllet. He cam-whatever company
I waa in-at church, in the preaching-bonae, at my class; and
waa always jut before me, changing his posture as I changed
mine. When I sat, he eat; when I kneeled, he kneeled; when I
stood, he stood likewise. I would Cain have spoken to him, but
I could not : when I tried, my heart sunk within me. Mean time
it alFected me more and more; ao that I lost both my .appetite,
my colour, and my s~ngth. This continued ten weeks, while I
pined away, not daring to tell any one. At last he came four or
live nights without any music, and looked exceeding sad. On the
fifth night, he drew the curtaill8 of the bed violently to and fro,
still looki.ng wistfully at me, and as one quite diatreased. Thia
he did two nights. On the third, I lay down about eleven, on
the side ofthe bed.. I quickly eaw him walking up and down the
room. B.eing resolved to speak to him,but unwilling any ehould
hear, I rose and went up into the garret, When I openedthe door,
I eaw hiJ!l walking towards me, and ehruuk baok; 011 which he
stopped and stood at a distBDoe. I IBid, •In the Dame of the
Father, Son, BDd Holy Ghost, ~hat is your buli-• lri.th me!'
He answered, • Betsy, God forgive you for keeping iM 110 loaf
from my rest. Have you forgot what you promiaed before I wat
to aea-to look to my children ifI was drowuad1 Y011mut ltUd
to your word, or I oa11110t rest.' I asid, • I wieh I waa d..d.' He
aaid, • Say not so; you have more to go through before then: ·IIUI
yet, if you knew as much as I do, you would DOt oaN bow IOOD
you died. You may bring the childrn ou ill tlleirlel.naiar•hilt
they liYe; they han but a abort time.' I .Ud, •I will take all
the care I can.' He added; • Your brother hu WJOte lor yw flO
come to Jamaica; bat ifyou go, it will hurt your 110111. Y011 ._..
lllao thoaghtll of altmug your ccmditicna ; but if'you marry W.
you think of, it will draw you (rom God, azul yoa will DllitherM
happy here nor hereafter. Keq c'- co Gild, azul go on in the way
wherein you ban been brought up.' I aaked, •How do yoa ..,-
your time1' He auwered, • In eoup of'praiae. Bat olthU yoa
trill kao• more by and by ; for where I am, you will earelyM.
I haM loet mach happineD in coming to you : azul I llhoalclllllt
han atayed 10 long without uaing other - to make JU11
•J~Nk, but the Lord would not auff'er me to &ight you. Han yoa
any thing more to aayt It drawa near two, ad after tluit I CUI-
not atay. 1 aball come to you twice more before the death of•y
two children. God bleaa you!' Immediately I heard aucb ~­
ing, as if a thouaaod .-oiceajoined together. He then wentdOWil
ataira, und I followe4 him to the first landing. He amiled; ud
I Rid, ' I deaire you will come back.' He atood atill till I -
to him. I uked him one or two <Jneations, which he immediately
anawered, but added, • I wish you bad not called me back; for
D01J I muat take aomething from you." He pauaed a little, ud
Rid,' I think you can bMt part with the hearing ofyour left-:
He laid his band upon it, and in the iaatant, it wu u deaf u •
atone ; and it wu aenral years before I reeonred the leut ~­
ing ofit. The cock crowed u be went oat of the door, and thee
the muaic ceaaed. The elder of hia children died at about tbftf>
aud a hall; the younger before he wu fin yean old. He ap-
peared before the death of each, but without apeakinr. After
tbat, I aaw bim. uo 'Q'IOtll.
".A. little before Michaelmaa, 1768, my brother George, who
wae a good young man, went to sea. The day after Michaelmaa
day, about midnight, I saw him standing by my bed-side, sur-
rounded with a glorious light, and looking earnestly at me. He
wee wet all over. That night, the ship in which he sailed split
upon a rock, and all the crew were drowned.
"On .A.pril9, 1781, about midnight, I waelying awake, and I
_saw my brotherJohn standing by my bed-side. Just at that time
he died in Jamaica.
" By 'his death I became intitled to a house in Sunderland,
which waeleft us by my grandfather, John Hobson, an exceeding
wicked man, who wae drowned fourteen years ago. I employed
an attorney to recover it from my aunt, who kept possession of
it; but finding more difficulty than I expected, in the beginning
of December I gue it up. Three or four nights after, as I rose
from prayer, a little before eleven, I saw him standing at a small
dilltance. I cried out, •Lord bl888 me! what brings you here1'
He answered, •You have given up the house : Mr. Parker advised
you 10 to do; but ifyou do, I shall have no rest. Indeed, Mr.
Dwln, whom you havll employed, will do nothing for you. Go
to Durham; employ an attorney there, and it will be recovered.'
His voice was loud, and so hollow and deep, that every word
· went through me. Hia lipa did not move at all, norhis eyes, but
the aound aeemed to rise out of the 1loor. When he had done
speaking, he turned about, and walked ont ofthe room.
"In January, as I wu sitting on che bed-aide, a qulll'terbefore
twelve, he came in, atood before me, looked earnestly at me, ~n
walked up and down, and stood and looked again. This he did
for half an hour, and thua he came every other night for about
three weeb. All thi8 time he aeem"ed. ~, ~ ~-..<~>~"~
JfOI'U.
look wu quite horrid and farioua. Oae Dight I waalittillg ap
in bed, crying, when he came and bepn to pull off the clotbel.
I atrove to touch hie hand, but could not, on which he unmt
back, and moiled.
"The nest Dight but one, about tweh·e, I wu again llittiar
up and crying, w)len he oame md ltood at the bed-lide. AI I
wu looking for a hmdbTOhief, he walked to the table, took 0111
up, brought and dropped it upon the bed. After thb, be ~
three or four nights, and pulled the clothea olr, tbrowiDg thai•
the other aide of the bed.
" Two nighta after, he came u I wu Bitting on the becki4e,
and Uter walking to and fro, natched the handkerchief from •Y
neck : I fell into a swoon. When I came to myael(, he waalbnd-
ing jnat before me; preii8Dtly he c1me clo1e to me, dropped it 011
the bed, and went away.
" HaTing had a long illneu the year before, haTing tabu
much cold by his frequent pulling olr the clothes, and bei~
wom out by these aJ.>pearancea, I wu now mostly con&ned to •Y
bed. The next night, aoon after eleven, he came again. I aaked,
•In God'• name, why do you torment me thual yon know1t iJ
impotaible for me to go to Durham now. But I have a (ear that
you are uot happy, and beg to know whether you are or not!'
He answered, after a little pauae, • That ill a bold question for
you to uk. So Car as you knew me to do amiaa in my lif.U..,
do you take care to do better.'· I aaid, • It ill a •hocking afi"air tG
li't'8 and die after that 1118Qner.' He replied, • It ia no time for
rellection now; what ia done cannot be undone.' I aaid, •it
muat be a great happineea to die in the Lord.' He said, • Hold
your tongue I hold your tougue I At your peril never mention
~h a word be£ore me ~ \. ~- ~w..-.,-~__, tG
lilt up my heart to God. He gave a shriek, BDd I1IDk down at
three times,, with a loud groan at each time. Juat u he diaap·
peared, there was a large ftaah of fire, and I fainted away.
" Three daya after, I went to Dnrham,.and put the aiFair into
Mr. Hlfgill, the attorney's'banda. The next night, about one,
he oame in, but on taking up.the Bible, he went away. A month
.rter, he came about elenn. I aaid, • Lord ble111 me! what baa
brought you here ~ 1' He said, • Mr. Hugill baa done no·
thing, but wrote one letter: yon must write, or go to Durham
again : it may be deci~ed in a few daya.' I uked, • Why do yon
not go to my aunts, who keep me out of it 1' He anawered, •I
have no power to go to them, and they cannot bear it, If I could,
I would go to them, were it onlyto warn them: fori doubt where
I am, I shall get too many to bear me company.' He added,
-• Take care f there is mischief laid in Peggy'a (her aunt's)
banda; aha will atrive to meet you coming from the clue. I do
not apeak to hinder you from going to it, but that yon may be
':lntiona. Let aome one go with you, and oome back with you,
though whether you will escape or no, I cannot tell.' I said,
• She can do no more than God will let her.' He answered, •We
have all too little to do with him : mention that word II() more.
Aa soon aa this ia decided, meet me at Boyl~on Hill, (about half
a mile from the town,) between twelve and one at nigl_lt.' I said,
• That ia_a lone place for a woman to go to at that time o£ night.
I am willing to meet yon at the Ballast Hilla or in the church·
yard.' He aaid, •That will not do ; but what are you afraid of1'
I &D~Wered, • I am not afraid of you, but of rude men.' He said,
• I will set you safe, both thither and back again.' I asked,
, may I not bring a minister with me 1' He replied, • Are you
thereabouts 1 I will not b!l "en by any but '70U. 'L<>~ u"'"'
IIO'I'D.
plagued me IIOf8 enough already : if yon bring any 011e . .
yon, takll what follows.'
" From thi1 time he appeared every night. betweeu elevallll
two. If I pat out the lire and candle, in hopes I ahould not..,.
hUn, it did not avail; for as BOOD as he cq1e, all the room -
light,but with a diamallight, like that of llaming brbutone; bid
whenever I took up the Bible or kneeled down, yea, or prayed Ia
my heart, he was gone.
"On Thursday, May Uth, he came about eleven, aa I -
aitting by the fire. I asked, ' lu God's name, what do yau
want1' He said, • You must either go or write to Durham; I
cannot stay from you till this is decided, and I cannot atay
where I am.' When he went away, I fell into a violent paaaloD
of crying, seeing no end to my trouble. In this agony,I con·
tinued till after one, arul then fell into a lit. About two I C:IIIIP
to myself, and saw standing at the bed-side, one in a white rob...
which reached down to his feet. I cried, ' In the name of tilt'
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.' He said,' The Lord is with you:
1 am come to comfort you. What cause have you to complair.
and,murmur thus for your friends 1 Pray for them, and leu~
them to God. Arise and pray.' I said, 'J can pray none.' H~
•aid, ' But God will help you: only keep close to God; you an-
backwards likewise in praying with others, and ufraid to receiv.
the Lord's supper. llreak through that backwardness and that
tear. The J.ord bless you, and be ever with you!' As he wen!
away, I h(>ard many voices singing hallelujah, with such me·
lody as I never heard befora. All my trouble was gone, anti
1 wanted nothing but to fty away with them.
"Saturday, 28th.-About twelve, my grandfather stood at m~·
bed-side. I said, • lnGull'II u~m.~,"'"~\ .\.o"!Ou want?' He Hid.
JIO'I'Uo
• You do not make an end of this thins: get it decided as soon
u poaible. My coming ia u uneasy to myselt as it cia be to
you.' Before he came, there was a strong Bmell of burning, and
the room was full of BmOke, which got into my eyes, and almost
blinded me for some time after.
"Wednl!llday, tlat June.-Abont sunaet, I was coming up
stairs at Mr.Knot's, and I saw him coming towards me out ofthe
opposite room. He went clo118 by me on the stair-head, Before
I IIBW him, I Bmelt a strong Bmell of burning, and so did Miu
Haamer. It got into my throat, and almost stiJled me. I sat
down and fainted away.
"On Friday, July 3, I was aitting at dinner, when I thought
I heard one come along the p888age. !looked about, and saw
my aunt, Margaret Scot, of~ewcaatle, standing at my back. On
Saturday I had a letter, informing me that ahe died on that
day."
Thu far Elizabeth Hobson.
On Sunday, July 10, I received the following letter from a
friend, to whom I had recommended her :-
" SundMiand, 6th July, 1768•
." I wrote you word before, that Elizabeth Hobaon was put
into poaaeaaion of the houu. The sam" night, her old visitant,
who had not troubled her for aome time, came again, and said,
• Yon mut meet me at Boyldon Hill, on Tharsday night, a little
before twelve. Yon will see many appearances, who will call
you to come to them; but do not stir, neither give them any
answer. A quarter before twelve, I shall come and call you, but
still do not answer nor stir.' She said, • It is a hardahip upon
me, for you to deaire me to meet you there. Why carmot you
take your leave now !' He r.Diwered, • It \a ia1: 11:1'1n t,.<:>!A, ~
....
.._
.lfO'l'lll.
I dellire it. I can take my leave otyou now ; but itI do, I IIWI
take IIO'IIJitbing frol1l you, which you would not lib to part widl.'
She said, ' May not a few Crienda CO'IIJe with me1' He aM,
• They may; but they mut notbe pn!1811t when I come.'
"That night, twelve of ua met at Mr. Daviaon'a, (about a
quarter of a mile from &e hill,) md spent eome time in prayer.
God was with Dll of a tnith. Theu .U: of ua went with herto
the place, leaving the reat to pray lor u. We came thitl.a
little before twelve, and then liood at 1 llllall dilt:anoe tnnn her.
It being a fine night, we kept her iD. our sight, and spent the
time in prayer. She stood there till a few minutel after out:
When wa IBW her move, we went to meet her. She aid,
• Thank God, it ia all over and done ! I lound eYery thing u lae
told me. I BBW many appearance•, who ollled me to them, bat I
did not anilwer nor stir. Then he came and called me at a dil-
tance, but I took no notice; soon after he came up to me, ud
said, • You are come well fortified," He then gave her the
re1110ns why he requested her to meet him at that place, and why
he could take his leave there, and not in the house, withoot
taking something from her. But withal, be charged her to tell
this to no one, adding, ' 1£ you disclose thil to any creature, I
shall be under the necessity of troubling you as long u you
live; if you do not, I shall never trouble you, nor aee you any
more, either in time or eternity.' He then bade her farewell.
waved hislumd, 81111 disappeared.''
It would be euy to multiply well-authenticated inst~PI of
apparitioDB from the \umb\e -,.m~ """"'~"-.._
.... ~~,_.._
NOTU.
MrD eountry ; but as those wbicb bave been already adduced are·
108lcient to confirm and establish the theory laid down in this
work, we will only add the folloWing:-
Ertract of a Lettw from Mr. Jamu Hamiittm;
·Dunbar, !6th May, 1184.
The servant of Dr. Menzie, physician at Dumfries, in Scot-
land, told his master and many others, that the Laird of Cool,
lately dead, appeared to him, rode him down, and killed hi•
horse; that he appointed him to meet him some time after, at
such a place, which be promised to do. But Mr. Paton, then
minister of Dumfries, advised him to break that promise.
Mr. Ogilvie, then minister at Innerwick, near Dunbar, on
hearing this, blamed Mr. Paton much; saying, "Had he been
there, be would not only bave advised him to keep his promiae,
but would have gone with him.'• The ensuing relation of what
·followed, written in Mr. Ogilvie's own band, was found in his
deak, after hia death, by Mrs. Ogilvie. She gave it to Mr.
Lundie, now minieter of Oldhsmstocks, who gave it to me.
J.t.IIJ!a H.t.IIILTON.
,
The following ie tranloribed from Mr. Lundie'a copy :-
" On Febrnary 8, 1111, at aeven o'clock at night, a1 I W88
oom.ing up the bnrial-road, one came riding up after me. Look-
iag back, I .called out, • Who is there 1' He auewered, •TM
Laird of Cool.' ThiDking it wu some one wbo 1Rollted to put a
trick upon me, I atrnck at him with my.cane. It found no re-
mtance, but Sew .out of my hand, to the diatance of about
twenty yardl. I alighted and took it up, but found some diBi-
GGlty in mounting, partly by the ramping of my horse, and
pMt]y bya tremb!ing, whioh ran throqll my 1ol.ll.V.. "'-"~"'"l~
Ia
454 mrru.
till I came up to him again, and ( llllid, • H you are the lAirdef
Cool, what is your buiineell with met' He -ered, •Y011
have undertaken what few in Ridadale woUld.' I uked in .,.
prise, • What have I undertaken l' He answered, • Lut Sab-
bath, you blamed Mr. P·aton for advising the young man not
..
to keep hie promise, arid said, you would be willing to go with
him yourself.'
Ogilw. Wbo informed you that I aaid ao 1
Cool. We that are dead, know many things that theliving bow
n~thing about. All I want is, tbat you wiil fulfil your promi~e,
and "deliver my commissions to my Wife.
Ogilvie. Did I say I would go all th~ way to Dumfriea upoo
such an errand 1 It never entered into my thoughts.
Cool. What twaiJ in your thoughts I do not know ; but i can
depend upon my information, that these were your words. But I
see you are in some disorder; I will wait upon you again, when
you have more presence of mind.
By this time we were come below the churchyard, and while
I was considering whether I bad promised or no, he broke lrolll
me through the churchyard, with amazing violence, and w!-th aocb
a whizzing noise, as put me into more diiiOI'dsr thaa Wm.
Wbeb I ca11le to mybouse, my wife, seeingme verypale, inquired
what ailed me. I told her I was a little uneasy,and desired-
thing to drink. Being ·thereby eased anal refreshed, I retiftd to
my closet, to meditate on this astonishing adv&nture.
On the 5th of March, 1711, as I was riding about 111118et,-
William White's marsh, the Laird of Cool came ridiug vp to .,
ag-.!in, and said, " Be not afraid; I will do you no harm," I re-
plied," I am not in the leUt afraid, for I know that He ill".._
I trU.St, ie strange-r than. 1tl\ at!®~"\\\~:'
Cool. YOlllf81!1\fe from m~t. 118 li:!MIII I 1fll8 alive. .
0~~. ~n l~t "!1.8 ~ve ~ f~CQDvqff&ticm toglltllar, and giu
_," Jl!!ll8 ~q~tion abq,.t tlle otller world.
· C"". WJlM~~~ 4P yo11 1"'~t from 111111
Ogil~. -MeYlll! ~ a sW,t!l qf~ppiD~~ss, or not l
c~. That ~- -~ qUMti~ -~ "!'fiJI n!ll ll!!&War. Ask 119J118th~
else.
~· I ~ th4191 wb~t ~9r~ of !I bojl.y ie tha~ you appeljl' in l
,Cool. I* i8 nqt ~ ~~e bo4y wp!lfein ~ Willi filtJllllll! W, yoClr
marrj.~e4 nor tha.\,jp w~c;n ~- c4ed : that ill r!Jttin& jn ~41 pn;
but it is such ~ ~odJ'l'l! rw.swl!r!l ,pl!\ j.n a IJ1911l4!P~ I c;apllJI u
ta..t in ~ ~Y· M ~oqt i~ ~ I fiO.uld, go ~ .~nd~~J~, to
.1~1J81\l.~, or ~ ~ .m!I'!P.l Pflll p.erfOJW. tAA¥.i«l~YI! eq~
aoon ; ~r it ~ ~ ~tfWng li~Jt ~ th91!1llt. TlU,tt ~cb: lll' jij,lt
ll!l ~~ 118 yq~ Ua9ugljt,. ~~~ -~~~- W.~ W you. lfll!l ~'!l'Jl JQIP'
~~J~~ t-9 ~e, 1 f?~D.J9 \Jw:e, ~ ptWPn. . .. ...
()gil~M. P~~ .WI JW!, hav4! Jilf ~~ Yff. ,ap~ ~!RJ! ~.
~ re~v\!fl ~ll!~f.~ ~ fM.a_
.iiJ!Ii'-1
~ Nev"r;mt,.
o~. Jt ~ ~my ~ved, ~ ~ a JlM!jouliiJ jqdg-
mept~!14i¥-¥Y ~r d11atJa, and 11< g~~~~ QJlf! !It the l"t !lily.
c:;..M, l'ict.•w:h ~og, np !1"11~ thipg, · T.hel'ft ;.. 110 b:ial, J¥)
.sentence, till the laat day. The heav.en CC!Q4 ~611. ttnjPJI iJIIIJl""
4ia~Jy ~~ death, coUU.w ~n tiM! leJMi~y oi t.b.eir ~-· the '
satisfaction of a good consoienoa, !!ad tM ·qe~pe of rlw:r
-everlaf1;ing. 1-'llll ~~~ JrlaicA ~It ~~uatrQQmedia&ely after
death,~r,t j.n ~ wielleclaes~~o .iJl ~-JIDDg !lf ui awabned
CODJPi.ence, P1e.tan'Qro(~ :the~ Judge, aud ofeverlutiog
~rJI!liiJta. • ~nd their aile~y. ylwb dee4. lleara a .due proportjon
to t;Jae evil dafty did·•hen' livi~~g1 IHlt llllill.• at~.~~'\>Q\.
NOTES.
good, were fill' 11188 wicked than others, and ao are far lea mi.
aerable, And on th~ other hand, lOme were not wic\:ed in tbit
life, yet bad but a amaH degree of goodnesa ; and their facet are
not more various in life, tban their circumstances are after death.
Ogilw. To p881 tbie, there is another question I want toIlk.
How came you to kn01r what I said to Mr. Paton1 Were yoa
with us, though invisible 1
Cool. I W88 not. But you must know, that not only angell are
oontinually sent &om heaven to guard and comfort good men, but
al.eo the spirits ofholy men are employed on the aame errand.
Ogilw. But hu every man his guardian angell
Cool. Not every man, but many particular men han; IIIII
there are fsw families but have one attending them. From whit
you have heard'of spirits, you may eaaily ooncei'l'8 how one may
be serviceable to each member of the family, nen when far dis-
tant &om each other. Yea, one powerful angel or departed spirit
is ll'llfficient for some villages; bat to a great city, many angels or
departed spirits are aaaigned, who are superintended by one great
angel. Now Satan, in the government ofhialtingdom, apesthe
\:ingdom of Christ 88 much 88 possible. Accordingly, he aenda out
Dlissionaries too; but because be has plenty of them, be fre·
quently commissions two or three to attend one family, ifit be of
great power or intluence.
OgilllU. I cannot understand bow the evil angels should be
more nume,.. than the good ones.
Cool. Whatever the number ofdevils be, it is certain the nam-
her ofwicked spirits departed, who are employed on this errand,
is abundantly greater than that of the good one11. And there is
u great a difference between the good and bad spirits, as there is
benveen the good and \)114 u~e\1., ~\b. ""'-~ ~~d to their
l!fO'l'IS. 45't
kilowledge, acti'rity, strength, aDd facultiee. yea, soinedeparted
aoula' exceed 10111e·of the original aDgele in all these reepecta.
Now both the good and ern angels have stated times'oHendez•
vons, at which the principalaDgelB (good and bad) that have the
charge of toWI15, cities,'or kingdoms, (not to mention villagea
or' indiriduale,) · hear all that is trlmlacted. M1my' thinge
false are related among t~e living, but nothing among the dead.
Indeed, 1m eril epirit would not scruple telling a Calsehood, if
he could gain any thing by it; but he cannot~ Nay, in maldng
hia report he mUIIt tell nothing but the truth, or woe be to
AimI But beeidestheir monthly, quarterly, and yearly meetings,
departed epirita may take a trip to eee each other when they
pleaae. Three oftheee infurmed 1ne or what you said: Andrew
Akeman, that attends Mr. Thuraton'a family, Jamea Corbett, that
waita on Mr. Paton'a Camily, md WMlooking after Mrs. Paton,
when· she wu at your ltouae, md 1m original emiBBary appointed
to wait on yo11r11. T·
; .
Atthis I wasmuch aurprieed,aDd afteralittle retlection, I asked,
" And is there an emieaary from hell, thlit attends my familyt'~
Cool. ·You m4Y depend upon it there is.
OgiltM. And what is hia basineeet
Cool. To divert_you from your duty, and m&ke you do ael"inany
ill things as he can; for much depends on haTing the minister'on
hie aide.
On this I was struck with a horror I eannot e.ss, but &her
a time recollecting myself, I said " B"ut is there a deTil that .
attends our family, though inTiaiblyt" ··
Cool. As aure·aa you breathe. Bot there is also a good angel
that attends your family, and is .tronger than he.
Ogilt~i.. Are yon eure ofthis1
c-l. Y•• aDAI there ie o~e· j!l•~ II01f ridi11« oa -~11111' light
1UIIao But • ~pt MY&"- ela&lf'hwe, f« I _.t 7oa
DO bUill,
0~ How loag hu btl "b811lwitlliQ81
Cqfl, Only aiDe& we paued ~e; b~thaow be i1 goD&.
o,u~ I dellire DOW to pan~ y41U, 8Pd.eo lltliJ ybil ·...th.
~~~.
9Dol. Be it ao. I lRDt yoqr help qf aootberQ'Qii, .Now 1 bi4,
yqv. fll8lfell. So.aayiug, be wen1 otf, at ~~~ bead o£ the pada
go~g to ~loqb.
~ April 5tb. 1771, ul Wa,l ~. &om Oldhuastoeb.
Cool atruck liP with me at the ruillona iDclosue. I laid to hja.> ~
I - glad to 18&you; what are llOw·your 4elatuula upon DUll
Cool. All I deainl jt, that yw willgo tofll1 wile,wba pclllt8181
~ m~. aad iut'oraherofthe fellDwingfllol'*Ululan1-l'int,
I~ P~"\'CHit Cf!l4by £600 Soots, with three ,_n• int.N81t.
On hia death, my brother aud I bged a diaofJarp, aad wbela hia
~ 1n0teto J11e CIODOti'Ding tbia boBd. I ahawed him die dia-
dlaqpt 1111d M!euiMICI him. Seooad, wlula I heard of Bollert
Kennedy'• death, I forged a hill of .£1!10 ~. 1Vbicb wu
paid me. Third, when Th0111111 Gnor died, 1 owed biDI. ,£86.
•liDJ; I~~~et wjth a poorlad, a wri111r. who!lll.told-I had paid
ThOIUII ~1f801''1 IIP®Wlt, but I hllll not • r&CeiPto wbiola I detrirei
he would write for me. He ftew into a paasion, aud ll!lid, he
would ratherjl banged. 1 aai,d. nay, I.wu but in jellt; and
oeaired he wimld uevar metJti.oJI it to aDY· fourth, I 1181lt for
:your brother, who did all I de~ired for a guinea, .IJIIAI for a guinea
-8!1d a balfmore, gv.ve me a discharge for £-!00 JJIOl'e, (Scots,)
which I owed yQu.r father-in-ll',w, B.ut wh11t ye~e11 me mc.e tlau
.all'the rest, is the in}uatice I did 'to Homer lllu"!.U.• for whom I
was factor. I had bom!wad !000 marki troJil hllii, too df ~hioh
he had borrowed from ~mother. For this I gave·liliia mybond. lie
died tha~ year, lea'ring Dine children. Hia wif\i died a moni:li be-
fore him. His eldest daughterdesired me to look over the·papenr,
and to give her u licet~unt oftheir stock~ debts. I slipped his
bond into my pocket, whereby his bircumatances proveibad, and
the nine childrn are all BtBrving. These things I beg you Will
represent to my wife, and let then!. be rectified. She has f11nds
sufficient. Ifthis be done, I thinl: I ehall be easier.
After a 'short pause; I BDintered, ''It is a good errand you
woeld send me on, to do justice td the oppressed, and I might be
a pner myself; yet I beg a little, to consider on the matter•
Yoa needll()t bid me take courage : for though I see whai: your
state ia, I am no more afraid of you than of a new-born child.
Tellll18; then, since yo\u' agility is &Uch, tlis\ iu tbe twinkling of
Ill .eye you can fty a thousandmiles, Why elinnot you By to yon~
wife; empty hi!Jr -
b&ga into yourbat inriliibly, anfdo these people
Justicet"
Coef. I cannllt.
~· Blit you by, iftlieeelliinga were rectified, you should
be ealll.er. I eanuot understand that; for whateverjusticebe now
done to the people, the guilt oftlui injustice still lies upon you'
But whycannot yon take money to pay your debtei
Cool. I cannot touch any man's money, byreaBOD of those wha
are the stated guardians ofjustice. f
OgilfiW. Nay, but do not men take the money of others con-
tinually! and cannot you do it, that can pllt yourself into a hun-
dred shapesl
Cool. God will not IIUft'er us to injure men ; and indeed., ....,..,..'\\.
maypard themselTes againatm•,"hut"Mt~~~>~\.n'\a.. ~...
._
not thesereiltri&ined, nothing thata m1t.ll\).,W.'IIIlO~~""'"-""\"'• .
NOTEII,
Ogilflie. But might you not go to the mines of Mexico, where
tbcr& is gold enough that wouldnever be miaeed1
Cool. No spirits, good or bad, have any power to toueh money
;>1' j;:Old,
(lgilvie. Butwhat hinders bad spirits from doing itt
(.;ool, A superior power, that guards and governs all.
Ogilvie. But why cannotyou go to your wife yourself, and tell
lu·r what you have on your mind1
Cool. That is one of the questioDS I will not answer. But if
you will go, I will make you full satisfaction for your trouble.
On the 10th of April, coming from Old Cambus, I met him
again upon the post-road, on the head of the heath calledthe Pees•
He asked whether I had considered the matterl I said to him,
"I have, and am ofthe same opinion still. }'or whata fool should
I make of myself, if I were to go to Dumfries, and tell your wife
that you had appeared to me, and told me of many forgeries and
villanies you hat committed, for which it behoved her to makl'
reparationl Is it probable she would psrt with her money 1
Would she not rather ssy I WBB mad, if she did not sue me for
scandsll But dropping these matters till our next interview-"
Here the manuscript endd, Whether Mr. Ogilvie did not see
him any more, or whether death prevented his writing the rest of
their conversation, is not certain.
TH:£ END.
