{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__mackey___the_original_design_of_the_ancient_zodiac.pdf","mytitle":"The Original Design Of The Ancient Zodiac","mylang":"de"}
,i» Y? "“' i
ff} f/7w/4141
THE in 1%
ORIGINAL DESIGN 1% f; 5
OF THE ‘i ‘ I '
A N 0 1! E N T
ZODIACAL AND EXTRA-ZODIAOAL
CONSTELLAHows,
Arranged on the present Globes ,- which by their
attitudes and positions prove the place ofthe
summer Solstice to have been in the middle
of the Goal ; and the autumnal
equinox in the Ram.
m wmcu 18 ADDED AN accovm' 0F 'rl-m
BATTLE BETWEEN
VICRAMADITYA AND, SALAVAHANA
Which arosefrom a Combination of the P78088
sum and Nutation of the Earth’s Axis.
ALSO, FURTHER nnmmxs ‘ |
On the long Zodiac of Tan! ra; skewing that i
the unequal division of t e Zodiac is a ‘
consequence of the Perihelion yoint
in the autumnal Ram.
.1
BY St A MAGKBY, '/~ 2
Princess’ Street, Ndrwich.
1834.
WALIIB‘ PRINTER, BM}! 01' THE "INS, IORWICH;
I
~
ORIGINAL DESIGN " 'f
or THE ANCIENT' , "
ZODIAGAL AND EXTRA-ZODIACAL'
CONSTELLATIONS, s0.
Swen Writing my little works on the Zb‘diac‘s
of 'l'antym and Thebes I have read 'a 'Wbrk of
Baron Cuviere, translated by Professor'Jamieson.
This work, as far as Geolo y is coneerned,pifow7es
the antiquity of the Earl to be immense; and
the writer, a Man of Judgement: 'but where he
departs from that Science all is Sophistiny h '
The Writer, not being acquainted with the
Science of Astronomy ; not the ﬁgurative; ‘allel
gorical manner of writing'made use of the
ancients,'is constantly mistaking their Si'mhols
of astronomical Circles for real human eings
and the recorded Operations of the Elements in
the dili'erent eriods of time, he as constantly
mistakes for t re eXploits of great Warriors ;' and
as the actions of the Elements do not at all times
admit ofa happy 6 urative Allegory he calls them
Reveries; acknow edging at the same time that
he “ can absolutely make nothing of them.” But
notwithstanding his ignorance, he has the Temeri
ty to calumniate! ‘ 3
The Hindostanee Puranas mention a battle'b'e
tween Vicramaditya 85 Salavnhana, Captain Wil
ford asked his Indian Pundit or historian, 'how
many years had gone by since. Vieramadityas
time. The Punditashed him which 'of the four,
for there were four. The writer bf Cilviere’s
book mentions the above; and with ’a'sarcastic
jeer says “ there might be eight or nine”~These
half a dozen words betray a malignant intention
mixt with weakness ; and are more likely to have
proceeded from the Pen of a JESUIT than that of
‘—.___.__.._
r-—-—-—-
.-_-_
4
a Philosopher. And as the Jesuitical Columnist
tors of the sacred histories of the Ancients have
A no idea of the astronomical fact concealed in the
above Allegory: I'll explain. .
The Battle of EVicramaditya and Salarnharia]
In the Allegonca Battle of the above Combatants
how few are the Europeans capable of perceiving
the Hindoos have recorded the knowledge of not
only the spiral motion of the Axis of the Earth,
but ofits Nutation. In the present age "of the
World the Pole oi the Earth describes the invo
lute ofa Circle around the Pole of the Ecliptio in
about 26,000 years; in which time it becomes
nearer by four degrees, and consequently is fur.
ther from the Sun or Tropic in Summer, by four
degrees, in that time. But if we go back to the
time of this Battle, and the age in which Babel
was built; which, according to Berosus, was 470,
000 years ago; the Pole of the Earth described
the evolute of a circle around the Pole of the E
cliptic and was, therefore, approaching the Sum
mer Sun or tropic at the rate of4 degrees every
round.
Now to' understand the terms involute and
evolute it is necessary to conceive a cord coiled
round‘a post. And if the 0st be one foot in
, diameter, a erson in walkrn around the post
with the end, of the cord in is hand, so as to
unwind the cord, would describe the evolute ofa
: circle having the space of a yard between each
'v0lve. And when the cord is all unooilled, if the
person continues to go round the post as before
(ltlhe end at the post attached) he_will describe
t e involute of a circle ; crossing his former spi
_ ral twice in each round at opposite points. Such
is the general ﬁgure described among the stars
by the polar point of the Earth. But the parti
pular ﬁgure requires another process, Admitting
5
six yards were uncoild, there would be formed a
Spiral of six volves at the distance of one yard
each; and the cord, kept tight, would shew the
limits of each volve. Now, from the points 6, 5,
4, and 3 describe 4 concentric circles, which will
inelase 3 distinct sections of space; the outer of
which is J udister, the second, Vicramaditya, the
the third Saiavahana, 8L0.
Now, in winding u the cord, let the end at 6
be put round the hen ot'a cane but not fastened
to it; guide the cane steadily before you, and as
the cord gradually coil on the Post, the cane
would as gradually depart from the circle 6, and I
when half round would be half way between the
circles 5 and 6 ; and by ﬁnishing the volute would
coincide with the circle 5 at 5, where the reign of
Judisthcr ends, and that of Vicramaditya begins.
But this volute does not describe a ﬁgure like that
conceived among the Stars, which is a volute
composed of epicycloidal ﬁgures, each one being
the representative of about [8 or 19 years. This
may be rendered comprehensible by a dot on one
side of the head of the cane; and while the cane
proceeds from 5, as before from 6, let it be made
to revolve horizontally, so as to have the dot some
times on the inner side of the volute and some
times on the outer. Thus proceeding, the dot, as
representative of vicramadrtya, would threaten to
invade the territory of Saiavahana eve time it
came to the inner side of the volute; an actually
commences hostilities 30 years before he arrives
attire end of his reign at 4.
The history of each of these reigns is written
in elegant poetry of a thousand Stanzas. And it
is in this way that all the astronomical occurrences
have been recorded in the vast Hindostan Em ire;
but when European Dulness expects to ,ﬁni, in
their tine_Allegories, the history of human Beings,
__.‘__
r-.-_.-_
6.
it is no wonder to hear them treated as Reveries.
But though Wilford, Bently, Cuviere and many
others shut their Eyes, that will not make the
world blind. Nor will all the Chicanery, which
we see in daily practice answer the end intended;
which is that of arresting the progress of true
Science.
Though men in private agree to clill‘er before
the public, yet,'Man will think for himself; and,
if pretending Philosophers in Germany attempt
to provelthe Earth to be annually receding from
the Sun'at the rate of 90,000 miles; ‘and, in 6,000
years‘from the present time, the distance to be
s0,greet,-urrd'the heat from the Sun so reduced,
that the Earth will be covered with eternal Ice, in
the same manner as we now see the plains of the
north, where the'EIephant formerly lived, shall
we not see’ the drift of such contemptible
Sophisms.
'l'hey insinuate that formerly the Earth was so
near the sun, that; its heat on the plains of the
north was equal to its heat: in the present Tropics,
or where we ﬁnd~Elephants. -Does not this Ger
man know that the plains in the north are nearer
the sun in winter than in the summer by 3,000,000
of miles. The heat from the sun-then does not
depend on the distance, but on the meridian Alti
tade. And that'depends on the polar motion: at
which they nre'so terror struck; yet cannot hide it.
But, in England there is a set of men who as
serts that the Earth is annually getting nearer to
the Sun; and in time will fall into that body.
There seems to 'be a design in this diil'ering-men,
ﬁnding that Philosophers disagree, may be de
terred from searching. And that is the ho eby
which so many writers are stimulated. l2They
dread the growth of knowledge among the most
useful-part of mankind; “ Men who are aux:
7
“ ous to put out the lights may fairly be suspect
“ ed of evil intentions.’I
Cuviere, calumniates all the ancients by whole
sale. He accuses the Egyptians of being incor
rect observers of the motion of the Sun on which
all their histories depend, and as their observations
and calculations were erroneous, they were
not worthy of our notice: and as all the histories
of other ancient nations'restetl on observations
and calculations equally imperfect they are all
swept off the stage With one dash of he pen.
But let us examine on what ground he htas raised
his Bulwark of universal calurnny. He asserts
that the Egyptians made their year to consist of
365 days; which, being too short, brought their
new-year's-day through all the signs in the Z0
diac in l508 years; but according to the Egyp
tians in 1460 years which, says Cuviere proves
the inaccuracies of their observations.
What could induce Cuviere to assert such ﬂagi
tious falselroudz—To defend the much slandcred
Sons of the Nile, I‘ll turn school-boy at 70.
They made their years to consist of 365 days,
and so do we; they made their years all of a
length; but we make everyfourth year to consist
of 366 days from which we have the following
Query,
If in four years we take in 1 day how man
years will 3635 require; 4 times 365 is 1460 861460
years they reckoned as l46l. What, therefore,
could possibly induce the Baron to say it would
require 1508 Here. we find the inaccu
racy on the side of Cuviere: and it is from this
Lie, thrown upon the shoulders of our Fathers, '
that he has the temerity to claim the assumption
of having overturned all the boasted Monuments
-
J-—-_
—____
8
of a remote Antiquity. Perhaps this Baron, this
Cuviere thought with Gregory Nazianzen, who, in
the time of St. Jerome, said “ A little jargon is
all that is necessary to impose on the people. The
less they understand the more they admire, &c.
. But a little jargon will not refute my Works in
which Ithave proved by astronomical demonstration
that the antiquity of their Monuments is founded
0n celestial observations; and their fables are
recitals of astronomical Allegories.
Cuviere has said much about the Zodiacs of
Dendera; but what is it all, but jargon. What
is all his string of quidities but a collection of
sophisms to draw the mind from this plain simple
truth, that the Gout. is a Summer sign, and the
winter Solstice is in Cancer. He also uibblcs
about the unequal divisions of signs. at the
whole twelve make the round, through which the
Equator passes in 26,000 years nearly in our time.
Theunequal division of the two halves, require
a serious attention. lts cause escaped me at the
time of writing the Treatise on the Zodiacs ol'
Dendera and Thebes. But as this little work
wilLaccompany the other, the long Plate of Den
dera can easrly be referred to. It is well known
in our time, that the'summer half of our year is
longer than the winter half by eight days. This
is a consequence of the Earth being nearer the
Sun in winter than in summer. See plate 10.
But the eccentricity of the Earth’s Orbit is
Observed to be constantly diminishing; therefore, _
in taking a retrospective view of Time, the ece
centricity must have been greater; and conse
quently, the diﬂ'erence between the nearer half
ear and the remote half year must formerly
have been more than eight days. And as the
perihelion point moves through the Ecliptic in
something more than twenty thousand years, it
9
must be vertical to different parts of the Earth.
And “hen over the Equator, in Autumn, the
nuurmnal half year would be shorter than the
Spring half, or in other words, from midsummer
to midwinter, the Earth would require less time
than from midwinter to midsummer. Now if we
examine the long Zodiac of Dendera, it will be'
seen why all the Goat and half the Crab with
thefwe signs between, are on one side; while on
the other side there are but ﬁve signs and a
hill: hence there must have been,-at that time;
more than eight days difference between-the two
half years. The cause of all which is so clearly
p0inted out by the two Decans in the Ram
seated on ﬂames and pointing their ﬁngers to
their mouth, expressive of thirst, that no men of
science can‘doubt that, at that time, the place
of the perihelion point was in the autumnal Ram.
lsay, and repent it, the autumnal Ram. _,Fo'r
were We to consider the Sun returning“ from the
winter to the Ram, there could not have been
that heat and thirst experienced in Spring espe+
cially in the beginning of Spring, as to Warrant
the two expressive Deeans in Aries. "
' Curiere has strung together a few Soplizsms
about the circular Planisphere, in order to render
it perplexing,- by supposing the Colure may be
here, or it may be there. or, or, or, &c. but he
has not displayed the least appearance of know
ing, that in a Plenisphere where the Equator and
EC“ tic coincide,there is-no Solsticiul point; for
all tie year is Spring. _
But the greatest weakness of Curiere and the
rest of the Jargon‘ Mangers, is displayed in their
pretended discOVery of Greek Inscriptions; from
nhich they insinuate that the monuments they
were written on must be modern. ObserVe!
they dont possitively assert that they were me
._-_____
d
-w-h'
~.__
10
dern. they only insinuate. They dont plunge
you into Error, they only decoy. When I take
into the account the Host of writers em loyed,
and the money yearly spent to slan er and
calurn iate the Ancients, and their Monuments,
and w atever belong to them, I think whats
saving it would be to ﬁnd one or two who would
undertake to prove that \my Book is founded on
Falsehood. Bu’t,—hah! But, Jargon Wont do
that. They must arrest—not me 2—that they
dare not do. But they must arrest the Polar
motion and that they cannot do.
When Sir Isaac Newton wrote about the
cause of the polar motion, it excited some
alarm; but Sir issue was made Master of the
Mint and we heard no more of the polar motion
from him. _
But tho’ all the Monuments on Earth were
destroyed, the knowledge of Antiquity would
not perish; for there are Registers in heaven
that clearly proclaim the existence of man as a
Scientiﬁc Being, sixteen thousand years at leash
And as these Monuments are in erery part of
our Country, arranged on the Celestial Globes,
every person may have access to them without
travelling abroad. Butattempts have been made
to rob mankind of the knowledge contained on
these celestial monuments, by leaving out the
animal Figures; and tho‘ in our time the ﬁgures
are retained some of them are distorted. And
last winter w hen l was in London, I saw a new
Globe, that had only the twelve Zodiacal Figures;
the rest of the stars not being inclosed in the
outline of animal Figures. This, I belieVe, is
a new device of the Enemies of heavenly truth;
but even such innovations in the science of
astronomy ou ht to be treated with contempt,
as there is not ring in the position of the Zoch
ml!
amqu
r
1!
seal signs that ran load to the knowledge of
any remote time. unless the place of the Uolures
he marked. But without that, the position and
attitudes of the Horse of Sagittarius, Serpents
rius, Bootes, Ursa-ma'or, Auriga’s whip-handle,
Perseus and Caput ltiedusa the two Triangles,
and a few others, are sufﬁcient of theirselves to
convince any rational mind that the Pole of the
Earth has moved around the Pole of theEcliptie
926 degrees of a Circle; and as it. is known to
more 1 degree in 72 years, a School-boy would
pronounce the time to be 16,200 years. Or the
equinoctial points have moved through] signs
and a half, and as they move through I sign in
2160 years, the time thus, would hethe same;
The annext plate, is a Celestial Plu‘nisphere
projected on the plane of the Ecliptic. _ - -'
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLANISPHERE.
Let C, be the centre or Pole of the Ecliptic;
around which the Pole of the Earth revolves in
less time than twenty-six thousand years, and
A, b, B, a, the Ecliptic through'which the Equa
tor asses in the same time. The Circle A, D,‘B,
is the place of the Equator sixteen thousand
years ago; the curve A, P, B, the, equinoctial
Colure at the same time, and S, D, C, P, the
solstical Colure, and P, the place of the Pole of
the Earth at the same time. Little p, the present
lace of the Pole of the Earth; h, d, a, the
'quntor; and a, p, b, the equinoctial Colure;
whilst the winter solstical Colure of the present
day passes from the bow of Sagittarus through
C, , &c.
Tie Spiral from 1 to P shews the trace de
scribed by the Earth‘s axis from the time of the
Zodiac of Thebes to the time of the Zodiacal
and extra-Zodiacal ﬁgures on the present Globes
herein represented.
12
Having explained the various Circles, lines,
points, 8:0. in the plate I shall proceed to speak
ofr‘the Figures therein contained.
’ hrious are the tales related concerninv these
art 8 tCelestial monuments. Most of which are
indtrént and disgusting; and yet most of them
are it! ﬁtted to be read in Schools of polite Edu
catioti‘." Macrobius is often quoted as having
had a happy thought in explaining the Goat,
and the Crab, asserting the Goat to be at ﬁrst
a Symbol of winter, and then it follows that the
Crab is the Symbol of summer: and as this does
not lead us more than two or three thousand
years from the 1plresent time, that is a lucky hit.
Pluche quotes acrobius. And Pinnoek's last
week’s penny Guide to knowledge has almost
its whole article on the Constellationstaken
from Pluche. But, unfortunately for those ad
vocates for the hap y thought of Macrobius, if
Cancer be the Sy'mgol of the Sun in July, the
Lion must be the Symbol of Au ust, and of
course the Virgin the Sun-burnt unrest maid
of Pinnock is the representive of September.
But in Egypt they have their harvest in March;
and during the three Summer Months the Coun
try is under water, and yet~neither the Crab, nor
the Lion, nor the Virgin say a single syllable
about it, but Pinnock has iven us another happy
thought to patch up this ilunder.
In his No. for Nov. 1833, page 676 is the fol
lowing from Pluche “ Although the Greeks
received the ﬁgures of the Constellations from
Egypt, it by no means follows that they were
invented there; those who difl'used them over
the rest of the world might themselves have
brought them from some other country. Indeed
it is certain that the Egyptians did receive them
from some distant place.”—Though he says “ rt
1‘3
ts cerlain Sc." yet this Guide does not say from
what place; but says probably from that. coun
try, Where all mankind lived together, immedi
ately after the ﬂood. and that the Egypti ns
carried them to the borders of the Nile,“ giien
they Went to settle there!!! What anfgppy
thought! so much for the Guide Io [mow edge ,
and his Lamb month, his Calf month, and his
Kidd’s month. The Abbe Pluclre wrote of the
kidds, but he did not inform Pinnock where they
were to be found. Gnorlacre told me they were
in the Zodiac of Dendera; but there are no such
things. Where is the utility of telling lies about
such seeming triﬂes. If the Lambs in April,
and the Calves in May trotted into the meadows
with their dams why not allow the Ladies in
June to take their two pretty little boys into the
meadows to pick a few butter cups.
And now, by placing the Goal in July in the
Zenith of Thebes, where we see it placed in the
Zodiac of that ancient city, we shall be able to
shew, without the happy thought of Macrobrius,
or, certain probability of Pinnock, that the sa
hle, [ﬁzzle-headed, l/u'ok-lz'ped, Sons of the Nile
did not bring these symbols from that place
where all mankind liVed immediately after the
Flood; but, that they are the result of 0bserva~
lions, blending the actions of the Elements ari
sing from the place of the Pole with those of the
Agriculture and Commerce of that particular
place where these Memorials are so happily
re isterred. A!
at thouvh I have proved a lapse of forty thou
sand years y the Zodiac of Thebes, yet, from the
position and attitudes of the Figures on our pre
sent Globes we are not able to venture an Anti
quity of more than sixteen thousand years which
no happy thought of sophists shall overturn. I
.'.-.
H
shall, however, ﬁrst of all, lay down a few step
ping-stones of Truth, from known historical
‘nets.
Well authenticated Histories inform us that
the Kile overﬂowed its Banks and laid all lower
Egypt under water for ten or eleven weeks dur
ing: the three summer months; beginning at
Midsummer, and continuing till the latter end of
September, before the land became dry. And
that every kind of labour was done by Procla
mation; or, by exllibitin some kind of Tool
Used in the work to be done, whilst the time of
commencement was eXpressed by showing the
Moon’s age by a Crescent for the new Moon, a
Half-Moon, with the strait side to the left for the
ﬁrst Quarter,the strait side to the right for thethird
Quarter, and the circle for the Full Moon, these
Symbols were placed on the head of a female
Figure, or of a \Voman; and the symbols of la
bour were mostly placed on the ﬁgure of a Man.
The Egyptians to eterniZe the most important
symbols, arranged them along the Ecliptic or
sun’s annual l’ath, while others were imagined
to be placed along the meridian from the Suns
place at noon for every month, with their heads to
wards the then Pole and their feet on the Equa
tor. There is another historical fact of some
importance to be known, which I don’t recollect
torhnve seen mentioned by any writer on Egypt;
'but in the Hiudostanee Puranas or books of
Geography the Fact is often mentioned in various
ways. It is this. The inhabitants of the nor
thern hemisph ere had an astronomical hatredol'the
inhabitants of the Southern hemishphere. And
in the Asiatic Researches, mention is made of fre
quent- Battles having been fought between the
Hindoos and the Egyptians on that part of Africa
where the EquatOr cuts the Sea-Coast just below
.15
the mouth of the Red-Sea. This hatred seems
to have arisen from the circumstance of the north
to being denominated the TEMPLE of the
bun, whilst the South pole was observed t01_be
the TOMB of the Sun. The Jews have recorded
somethiun' relative to the above fact in Joshua,
where it [5 said, that the Sun stood still onMount
Gibeon and hasted not to go down for tlie,space
ofa whole day; and when Samson, which vin'
Hebrew, is one of the names of the Sun, went
down into the valley of Sorek, he had his hair out
off and his Eyes put out!!! See Myth. Astr,
However the Equator was looked on as a line
of separation, and as that is always varyin its
position among the Stars, and the rate 0 its
motion known, the time of its departure from
any Star, or cluster of Stars, can easily and
positive] be known.
The gyptians had their year of 365 days.
The) had also their Sideral year, and the Tropical
year. But as this last was the rule of the sea
sons, it was the rule of all their labours. And
as their river began to rise at Midsummer, that
time ended one year and began another. In
consequence of the rivers beginning to rise when
the Sun came to their Zenith, it is said that the
river was the gift of the Sun; for they have no
rain in Egypt. They therefore represented the
Sun in the Zenith, vomittin a torrent of water.
(see Zodiac of Thebes) an as the Sun is there
in the Goat, at Midsummer, the Goat was then a
Summer sign. The river was, therefore, the
of the Sun in the Goat, and called Ageon, from
Agis, a goat, and On, the Sun. In‘this river there
were Whales, and Ageon is re resented as a
Giant that swallowed Whales. he Sun in their
Zenith being then in its greatest Glory, was
likened to a Goat whose delight is tckbe on the
D top of a Mountain, and therefore theStars in
that part of heaven were called the Stars of the
Goat; and as the, river began to overﬂow, at that
time they added a Fishe‘s tail to the Goat, which
is seen on the resent Globes and in both the
Zodiacs of Den era. The Zodiac of Thebes is
therefore, anterior to the other, by 25,000 years
at least. The next month, August, was repre
sented by a man pouring a pitcher of water down
on the Earth; and as at that time, the Egyptians
carried on. their commerce by Sea, this maritime
trafﬁc is represented by horses with wings, (Sym
bols of sails.) I have seen a Chronological
Table of events recording a time when the frost
was so severe that the Merchants carried their
oods. across the Mediterranean Sea on Horses.
ad these punsters said in Horses (meaning
Ships) they would not have needed the assistance
of Steueluﬁ to have paved the Sea as with a,
stone. ‘ . .
_ But the Horse Pegasus with the Star markab
on his wing, in our time, circulates over the center
of Africa, where Ships cannot soil; but when
the'Goat was _'vertical at Thebes, Pegasus and
his‘n'eitrbbour 'were vertical to that part of the
midlandlSea which, is contiguous to the Nile,
were the Phoenician Ships used to assemble.
Besides, the name 'of the principal Star mm‘ikab
is, the Sea 't'essel, from mar or met, the Sea,'and
kab, a vessel or' measure.‘ The position of
the "Feet and forehead of Pegasus are directed
toi'the lace of the Pole sixteen'thousand year?»
ago. Pam aware that Dr. Jamieson, in his Ce;
lestial Atlas, makes Markab to be probably “ the
Hersé of our fathers.” _
Thetwo Fishes, in thethird month of Summer,
‘united by a Fillet to their Tail<, very happily
* See Mytholegir.al'Etymolncies.
si
17 '
express the state of their Country,- es the Water,
retired from the land; miriads of ﬁshes must
have been left on the soil; these and other thin "s'
left, as the enter disappeared, inticed the brr s
from the south to follow the retreating Nile uite‘
down to the shore of the Midland Sea. . 'hé‘
principal bird from the South‘, is called the
Vhoop, which being of a singular form, the
Egy tians exhibited its wing as a Symbol of the
Sout wind.
All historians who have visited Egypt '8peak
or the su erb entertainments exhibited on the
water during the summer months alt night; these
gave an opportunity of obsérving the' midnight
Stars, as they came in Succession month after
month to the meridian, or South“.
Accordingly, when the Sun Was in the Goat at;
noon the river began to rise, the Stars that ap-j
peered south at midnight were represented by
the head of a Serpent called, hydra, or the ‘water'
Serpent, and on the Globes and on the Pianis
here, opposite the middle of the Goat, is the
ead or beginninn‘ of hydra. When the Sun, at
noon, appeared y the Urn of Aquarius; at
midnight they placed 21 Cup on the hyrlre’s back,
where it still remains in the precise attitude of
holding li nor, when the Pole was near Vega:
but from he present place of the Pole it stands
aslant. If this be doubted, bring the Crater on
the hydra, to the meridian of a belestial Globe,
and behold the fact. Is it possible for Symbols
to speak plainer, that the Pole was once at P.
And when the Sun is stv Pisces at noon, behold'
the bird, the Whoop, at midnight on the tail of
hydra in the attitude of picking up whatever it
miwht ﬁnd to his alate.
The three symbols by which they represented
the nightly entertainments, Were called Syrens,
which I explained in my other works.
r~__
-
—__4
-4
4‘
18
_ The soil deposited from fourteen Cuhits of
Water, made it necessary to measure each person’s
‘uantity of'la‘nd as soon as the soil became stiﬂ
gened.‘ 'This work was proclaimed by setting up
the s uare and compasses; and whilst they mea
aiure their lands an October, the country was
covered with sheep, feeding on the fresh herbage
before the ploughing in November. To comme
morate the Occurrences in October, the Ram was
placed next after Pisces in the Zodiac,""and the
s uare 0r ﬁght-angledt'l'riangles above the horns
0? the Ram, with one side in the direction of the
then meridian and an other parallel to the, then,
horizon. And what is still more remarkable they
are not both of a size, but this is not the work of
chance,-'—the lesser has its acute angle pointing
to the East; the'greater. to the Vt est. By the
map we perceive, to the eastward of the Nile, a
much less' quantity of land to measure. than
there is to the west, and consequently the acute
oint of the large Triangle is placed among the
tars pointing to the West.
‘ And as the Ox was used in ploughing, in No
vember the Starsin the ﬁfth month were called
the Bull, and the bright Star on his head is named
Aldebaran, the great bull's eye. It is also cal
led,Palz'lz'tz'um, which means, the rule of Festi
vals. ' While the measuring, ploughing, and
sowing the Grain, was performing by a certain
description of the people, another description,
were gathering and pressing their Olives; after
which, they had a festival, a rejoicing, for the
abundance of Oil received, in which they sur
rounded the wheels with serpents to express,
abundance. These wheels were called Golgol
corrupted into Gorgons,and one is placed among
the Stars suspended by the snakes, in the hand
of a man in a very painful attitude; called Per»
\
rs
Jv‘n-
‘-
—-1-;-
I!
,1
‘1
g
ay‘ﬁ's'
19
l at
en's
sil
IBP
u:
net
llllt'
l the
Kiwi
it tilt
the!
arid
mting
it till
tile!
in
arllle
mg W
.D X".
(allrt
nﬂﬂlt'l
=0 ((tl'
ﬁsh
n “l
59mm
1 lll‘llt
; Palm
hr llll
est
ah’
am
e ilil
d rt
sens. Let any person turn the constellation 0t"
Perseua t0 the meridian of our Globes and Per-i
seus will be found to be placed aslant under it,
and the head of Medusa far from obeying the
laws of gravitation will make as great: an angle
nsits holder; but a line from Taurus to the Pole
at P will pass through Perseus and in the Plauis-r
phere the Equator projected around the cor
responding pole P proves, beyond contradictiorr
that Perseus was placed in that position when the.rv
Equator was there, which is at least sixteen
thousand yearsago. But Ovid has mentioned
his precise position.
The victor Pgrsen‘s, with the Gorgon-head,
O'er Lln'YAIIaandshis airy Journeying sped.
Thence Perseus, like a cloud. bystorms was driven,
Through all the expanse beneath the cape of heaven.
Perseus, however, in ourytime, does not revolve
over any art, of Africa; but sixteen thousand
years bac- he did. -
In the month of December the Egyptians
closed their out-door business with a Fair, at
which all kinds of utensils, and every thing ne
cessar for the winter, might be had. . This great
assem legs of the people is represented by only
apair of young men, on our Globes. But some
of the Hindu Zodiacs have a boy and a girl, and
though I have seen many Zodiacs, I have never
seen one with kidds, but on our Globes above
the- horns of the Bull, is Auriga; on whose
shoulders are two goats; on the left Capella, the
She goat; on the right, Hircus, or He goat; and
below, are some kidds, but they are none of them v
in the Zodiac. 4
Winter, now setting in, the labour in Egypt.
was spinnin and weaving of Flax; and the
Symbols iy which this was proclaimed
Were numerous: I believe; Erictltonius, is the
most celebrated. Its name implies Flax-Weav
90
lug: somelimes it is called in-ictheu's, but
whom corrupted I am not certain. Bryant and
Holwell dealt much in corruptions of this kind.
Ericthonius, would not so easily admit of being'
turned into “ 'l‘he Arkite God. ‘
But Eric is a slight alteration of Arag‘; and
Arag-oni which is weaving Work,~ has been
changed into Arachne. Howevermtme of these
Symbols,- are placed on our Globes, and theree
fore, foreign to the present purpose. Ursa-major,
is the only Symbol, relative to weaving, that has
been placed among the Stars. > During the two
short months of winter in Egypt the Stars that
passed over their land were characterised by the _
animal that delights in cold countries, the Bean
its name of Arctos, however, is the only thing
amonw the Stars that has any relation to weaving.
I In Finnock’s Guide to knewledge it is asserted
that the original of its name was Bier; and from'
its proximity of sound has been corrupted into
the animal. Pinnock seems not to know that
the animal is placed on the Globes by the name
of Ursa; but Ovid calls it Arctos; and Bootes
is called Arctophilax, because he follows that
animal.
As the Sun began to turn back in January, the
backward sideway walking Grab was thought a
ﬁt Symbol of the Sun’s motion at that time.
- And, Manilius, informs us that the Crab, was
represented without eyes, and when painted was
of a black colour; which strongly alludes to
winter. . '
,In the eighth month, or February, the waters
being- dried up in the forests, the Lions resorted
te the banks of the Nile; which gave that 'ani
mal the next place in the Zodiac,
makesome remarks on the position of the three
Symbols .of winter. The two Zodiacal ﬁgures,
I shall here"
21:
the Crab and‘tlie I.ion,‘are remarkable for their
great northern latitude; especially the latter;
some of the Stars on him are twelve, some are
fourteen degrees above the Ecliptic, This cir
cumstance alone would- prove it a wintry sign:
for Leo, being a surnmer sign, ,would circulate
over the midland sea. . And the' position-of the
Bearinasremarkahle for its being so equally
balanced upon the then, Equator. Cuviere q-uibe
bles about what particular-part of the constella-q
tions the Colures passed, through at ﬁrst;
whether at the beginning or. the_middle..
Here from the. position of.the Equator, we are
sure the solsticial Colurevvas in the meddle of. the.
Goat, l'on by placing the Golure at the beginning.
of the Goat, the Equatbr would, bebelqw the
hind paws of theBear, and'above the fore paws;
as is shown in the Planisphere. The same re—
mark wouldequally appl tothe feet of Perseus.
Again, observe how t e Symbolsof labour
gradually depart from the Ecliptie as the Sun
eparts from the Equator ; Perseus, on the Equa-s
tor, stands with-one foot on the Bulk; ,but the
Bear on the Equator is farremeved fromCancet
and Leo. _. _ .
Tlip nlilnth monthI or Marsh, was their heavest
mean t is the ve - r e. lie resented. y ya
virgin with a trio carryoii' goznbiu- lfer, band, called
Spit-a; whilst- upon the, then-- meridian, ,they
placed the harvest man Bootes, with a Sickle in
ris hand, which touches; the- tail, of the Been
near a small Star called mizar which Dr. Jamie-s
son, in his celestial Atlas, says, means the reap.
1' hook.
l'hin virgin is thrice repeated in the long Zo~
tlinc ul‘ Dendera, one of which holds up a wheat- ~
ear between Leo and the Ballance or Scales, in
the circular l‘lanisphere there are three virgins,
/
-
AAMM—J
_‘.
22
which represent the three Decans, into which each'
sign of the Zodiac was divided. But, here, the
ﬁrst virgin is represented with a Child on her
knee; which proves that the story of the virgin
and her child,-was known to the Egyptians more
than a Million of years back.
Ab0ut the latter end of March the days are
known to len then more rapidly than at other
times; and w en the angle of the two Poles was
greater, at that time, the increase was more rapid;
so thatithe time of the equality of the days and
nights was of short duration. Conse uently the
Scales, Symbols of equality occupy ut a short
;space in the Zodiac. About this time the Sun;
and the winds from Arabia produced scorching
Blasts, which drove their light sands about their
naked bodies and produced blotches like the
venom of the scorpion: to commemorate which
the Scorpion was laced in the eleventh
division. A little to t e south of the Enliptic is
a large Star of a dismally red colour, called An
taraes, and is placed in the constellation as the
Heart of 1the Scorpion. Its name seems to be
Ain Tara]: i. e. the Star of terror. The work
necessary to be done at this time of drought,
(when the Nile consisted of many stagnant pud
dles of foetid water, covered with arid weeds;
which caused theNile to be Symbolized by a 'red
dragon, 270.) was that of scouring and cleansing
the Channel, so as to give the water its proper
direction to the Sea; which was done. by men
called Titans, or mud-men; one of which is
laced in the division ofthe Scorpion, with a
Serpent so disposed of as to convey a clear idea
of a man commanding the Serpent, Symbol of
the Nile. Now, observe the particular position
of the man; his body is in the line of the Harp,
like all the other Symbols of labour; and one
23
V
i‘
t
of his feet is on the Ecliptic and the other is
placed,on our Globes below the Ecliptic, resting
on nothing; but by projecting the Equator
through its true place, in the scales of. Spring,
We see what inducement the ancient sages had
to lace the other foot of Serpentarius below the
tie; it was, that, it might be supported on
the ‘quator, and thereby, having two tum props
he was better able to contend with his Symbolical
enemy, the great red Dragon .'-4he Nile. .
In the twelfth and last division of the year, it
was necessary to drive all the tame animals into
close quarters, so as to be able, u, on any short
notice, to have them conveyed to t e high raised
Country of Thebes, called the Thebah. At the
lowest part oftheThebaid, was Tautyra, (Dendera)
so that whoever went with their cattle and other
concerns to the Thebah ,- had ~an easy passage up
the Nile into the Thebaid byway of Tantyra
where they could remain with safety till the an
nual waters returned : which was marked by the
coming of the Numidan Hen, from the; south,
which is placed on the tail of Hydra; and which
is known to follow the track of the Nile quite
down to the See. It is also Very probable,~that,
while they drove up their lame stock they might
secure as much of the wild kind .as was-desirable:
this seems very likely, by Sagittariusheing fur
nished with a bow and arrow. However, the
position of this hunting Symbol isthe main thing
tobe noticed. Of all the animals in_-the Solar
round, this is placed lowest in the Ecliptic ;' indeed,
his head is but just allovvedv to touch that circle;
and all the horse-part extends far to the south.
The inducement to this is obvious,—the Horse
rests on the Equator of sixteen thousand years
back; which is econvineing proof of its being
theﬁymbol of June; ~ and as ,this—is'the month of
_ 2t
ﬁery blasts the night was better adapted for bu
siness than the day; And at midnight, when the
Sun was in the line between the tail of Sagittarius,
(where the year ended) and the horns of the Goat,
(where the year began) the constellation Lyra,
was then erect near the then north Pole; and, on
the Globes where the' Tortoise - and Harp are
Placed on the breast oft-the bird; the bird‘s mouth
is wide open, and the bright Star is called Vega,
or Phega, which is, ‘tlle plaoe of lb! mouth. In
the‘present time, at midnight in the semen-this '
constellation is seen to the north of the Zenith of,
il‘bebes; head downwards and at:tdidﬂight
im-winter',‘+wben~north, it cannot be seen, being
bel‘oh'vtlie h0rinom 1. - “t i 1 \.
" "If- Sagittarius had been a winter‘sign'» what
could have induced the Sons of the Nile to place
' it so far below the Ecliptic that it must: have cir
eulaled over the most southern iarts of Africa
Where we know it could have not ing to dowith
the ooneerns of Egy t. Hence we-see why Lee,
a winter sign, was p need so far above the Ecliptie,
and Sagittarius a summer sign, so far he 0.th
_ These incontrovertible facts agreeing witbvtho
sitions and attitudes of all the Symbols of labour
vverr-the Globe, prove, beyond the possibility of
being ovcrturned, that since their arangement the
Polar point among the Stars has removed fremd),
to‘p ; and that men of great learning", liredin
'the Thebaid of Egypt, at least sixteen thousand
4‘ years ago.v " r ‘ ' ':
our: ,
'F 1 Ni s. p "{1}
,. ‘ 5;;pr 52 ,.
in, . t . “em; ﬁ'ho." " m‘i Hi. i
in ,T. ,. - I a: '
“meB, PR N'rsn, BACK OF THE missr
