{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V6 1893-4","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v6_1893-4.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V6 1893-4","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
YOLUME VI.
1893-94.
FOB PRIVATE CIRCULATION AMONG MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES ONLY.
The Society's Rooms :
19, BUCKINGHAM STREET, ADELPHI, W.C.
Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive
in 2015
Iittps://arcliive.org/details/journalofsociety06soci
No. XCVI.—Vol. VI. [Januakt, 1893.
on
> "1
:i J 1
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL R]
i
J General Meeting •
i Kxperiments in Tliouglit-Transference .
M Cases Received by the Literary Committee
^ Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
Supplementary Library Catalogue
CONTENTS. PAGE
1
4
!)
14
16
cl
GENERAL MEETING.
The 55th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
i minster Town Hall on Friday, December 2nd, at 8.30 p.m. ;
the
/j^ President in the chair.
Mr. R. Peaesall Smith read a paper on "The Lourdes Miracles
1 and other cures by Mental Impression." The paper was chiefly occu-
H^pied with a number of cases, most of which had occurred in Mr. Pearsall
'
^ Smith's own family, of sudden and complete cures of more or less
J)
serious disorders that had followed on a religious faith or a determined
J expectation on the part of the patient or the operator that the disorder
^ would be cured. In three cases he was himself the operator, once on
J:3 himself and twice on two of his children. In another case, a boy of
J
12 years old, the son of his family physician, had broken his arm and
M had it set by a surgeon at Chicago. Two days later the boy, being con-
vinced that, as the result of prayer, the arm was cured, had the splints
2 removed and it was found to be fit for use. The case was related to
Mr. Pearsall Smith at the time by the two physicians, but the subject,
now a physician himself, writes that he believes that the arm was not
seriously injured and that it recovered in the ordinary way. With
regard to the miracles of Lourdes, Mr. Pearsall Smith said that the
statistics of failure and of relapses should be given as well as the
narratives of success. He spoke of the expectant mental attitude of
the pilgrims, intensitied as it was by religious fervour, and the con-
tagious excitement of the crowds gathered together, and said that
under the circumstances it was not remarkable that numbers of them
should be healed ;
whereas the cures he had described from his own
experience had aU occurred under circumstances of quiet, mostly with
S
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan ,
1893.
very few persons 'presein;. lie thougnt thiit' h6ih. classes of cures,
however, were attributable, tq the same causes, ,and concluded by
expressing the opiiiipii/ ,
that Teligion; may ' nc as a special
miracle the healings which' are constanfly effected by other means." .
Mr. Myers remarked that there was a considerable literature in
America on the subject of " Faith-healing," but the diagnoses of cases
and the details given were mostly so loose and inadequate as to be
utterly worthless for scientific purposes. He urged that any member
of the S.P.R. who knew of such cases, whether American or English,
should send the details to him for investigation by medical experts.
Professor Barrett said that he had seen the subject of the case
at Chicago described by Mr. Pfearsall Smith, and heard from him that
he did not now regard his cure as in any way supernatural. He him-
self had seen cases of " faith-healing," but none that he considered
altogether satisfactory, viz., none in which the necessary medical
examination before and after the alleged cure had been conducted by
the same medical man.
The PvEV. R. F. Clarke, S.J., maintained that none of the cases
quoted by Mr. Pearsall Smith would have been claimed as miracles at
Lourdes ex:cept that of the boy at Chicago. At Lourdes, certificates
are required from the doctors before and after the alleged cures, which
then are not counted as miracles until 12 months have passed with-
out a relapse occurring. He gave the case of a stone-cutter whose
eyesight had been entirely destroyed by a small piece of stone having
entered the eye. He was cured instantly after washing it with some
Lourdes w\at3r. Another man, who, according to the medical certificate,
had had the bones of his leg broken into several pieces by the trunk of
a tree falling on it, was cured instantly at Lourdes. He did not deny
that there were many failures —the proportion of successes being only
about two or three per cent. Neither did he deny that a certain
number of the cures—e.^/., of paralysis, hysteria, etc. —might be
accounted for by ordinary means. Such cures were not called miracles
at Lourdes, but " graces " or " material favours." There were, however,
some cases of the healing of organic lesions that were absolutely incur-
able, or would take many months to be cured, by ordinary means. No
one was so careful not to admit the occurrence of miracles as th'j
authorities of the Catholic Church. At Lourdes, the shrine was not
recognised by the Bishop for a long time. A few cures took place in
the crowd, where excitement might be supposed to play a part, but the ,
greater number occurred in the bath, in the presence of two or three
witnesses only, where there could be no excitement. The patients were
examined by sceptical and critical doctors, one of whom, Dr. Boissane,
had published the results of his inquiry in a book called Lourdes
Jax., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 3
Histoire Medicale (published by Victor Lecoffre, Paris, 1891). The
speaker hoped that the whole matter would be subjected to the same
kind of careful and strict investigation that characterised the work of
the S.P.R.
The President said that he should like to add a fevv words to what
had been already said, chiefly to enforce one point on which all previous
speakers were agreed, that the whole group of facts brought before us
this evening is one to which it is very desirable that serious attention
should be directed. He thought that he might fairly claim for the
S.P.R. that those who had systematically taken part in its work during
the last ten years would be likely to be among the very small number
of persons really able to approach the inquiry in an impartial frame of
mind. He was very glad to hear from Father Clarke that their inves-
tigators would be cordially received at liourdes, and he felt sure that
it would only be the absorption of their energy in other work that
would delay their undertaking this.
The question how to draw the line between natural phenomena and
miracles, to determine when—if ever—a phenomenon, alien to ordinary
experience and apparently inexplicable by any known laws, was to be
regarded as clearly outside the complex system of causally connected
changes which we call nature, was a question of profound difficulty.
He was not himself prepared to attribute to the authorities of the
Catholic Church that penetration into the secrets of the physical world
which appeared to him necessary to answer this question ; but he was
equally of opinion that the leading scientific authorities had failed to
show philosophic insight in their attempts to draw this difficult line.
As an instance of the limited insight of both classes of authorities, he
might refer to the phenomena of stigmatisation. These phenomena
not long ago were not only regarded by the Catholic Church as
evidences of special divine interference, but were also confidently
declared by an eminent physiologist to be " either miraculous or fraudu-
lent." But now, by means of hypnotic experiment, they had been
brousrht within the range of the natural action of the mind on the
bodily organism. He thought this an instructive warning, both to the
religion and to the science of their day, to recognise humbly the narrow
limits of their present knowledge of the ways of Nature and the ways
of God.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a paper on " Some Further Cases of
Crystal Vision," which will be included in his paper on " Sensory
Automatism and Induced Hallucinations,'' to appear in the next num-
ber of the Proceedings. He mentioned the development of an allied
automatic power of " shell-hearing " in Miss X, with whose experiments
the Society are already familiar ; and among several new cases he
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan.,
especially instanced the power of retrocognitive and other visions
possessed by a lady who wished to be known as Miss A, in connection
with whom he invited Sir Joseph Barnby, who was present, to relate
certain striking experiences.
Sir Joseph Barnby then read an account, which will appear in Mr.
Myers's paper, of his own testimony to some veridical experiences which
liad occurred to Miss A in his presence.
[Glass balls, well suited for crystal-gazing, can be obtained from the
Assistant Secretary for 2s. 6d., and Mr. Myers would be grateful for
accounts of any experiments which may be tried.]
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
L. 946.
The following sets of experiments in thought-transference have
been carried out at intervals from November, 1891, to October, 1892,
by Miss R. C. Despard and Miss C. M. Campbell. MissDespard was
in all cases the agent, and Miss Campbell the percipient. They tried
some experiments in which these parts were reversed, but obtained no
success. Notes were made at the time, and the notes of all the ex-
periments so far tried with Miss Despard as agent have been sent to us,^
except those of the lirst trials made in the transference of diagrams,
these having been lost. With this exception a complete account of all
the experiments tried is printed below.
Both Miss Despard and Miss Campbell are known to Mr, Myers.
All the experiments except the two last described were made with
agent and percipient in the same room, and Miss Despard thus
describes their relative positions :
" [Miss Campbell] as percipient sat in an armchair, behind and
rather to one side of a large square table at which I (agent) sat, I
having ray back to her. I placed the cards or colours on the table in
front of me and then drew the one to be thought of from the pack.
In this position, the view of the cards was quite sliut out by my body.
Further, the percipient found she could do better by removing her glasses
and closing her eyes, as she was not then distracted by outside objects."
The first experiments, in the guessing of cards, were as follows :
November 22?ic/, 7.30 p.wi. —C. M. Campbell, Percipient ; R. C.
Despard, Agent.
JSfote.
—"No contact—agent well behind percipient—much noise
in street, which distracted the attention of both—whole of the pack
used, except the court cards, and the cards drawn at random from
the shuffled pack." . .
Jan., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
Cards Draivn.
1. 6 hearts
2. 2 clubs
3. 4 diamonds
4. 9 diamonds
5. 3 hearts
6. 5 clubs
7. ace clubs
8. 3 spades
9. ace hearts
10. 10 hearts
11. 4 clubs
Cards Gioessed.
7, no, 7 diamonds
3 clubs —2 spades
6 clubs—4 clubs
3 hearts—3 diamonds
2 hearts
4 clubs—2 diamonds
4 diamonds—6 diamonds
2 clubs—5 clubs
4 hearts—5 hearts
10 spades—diamonds
11 clubs—ace clubs
In the next set of experiments, tried on January 24th, 1892, Miss
Campbell tried to guess merely the colour of the card drawn by Miss
Pespai'd.
Four series of fourteen cards each were tried in these the numbers
of guccesses obtained were respectively, ten, twelve, ten, eleven. Thus
the total number of successful guesses was forty-throe in fifty-six trials,
where the most probable number of successes by chance alone would
have been twenty-eight.
On January 31st, 1892, experiments were tried in guessing the
suits only of the cards, in three sets.
(1) Fourteen trials ;
eight successes, and three deferred successes.
(2) Fourteen trials ; six successes, and two deferred successes.
(3) Fourteen trials ; one success, and two deferred successes.
Total : Forty-tsvo trials ; fifteen successes : most probable number
of successes by chance alone, ten or eleven.
A note is made :
" Last series, marked diminution in clearness of
visualisation. Percipient and agent several times felt shape under-
going change."
On February 7th, 1892, experiments were tried in the guessing of
numbers and colours. The numbers were written on paper in ink, and
only numbers under 21 were used.
Series I.
Number Number Number
drawn. guessed. drawn.
5 5 3
17 10 7 .
8^ 6 or 9 15
1 2 11
9 4 6
1.5 15
Series II.
Number
guessed.
2
4
5
7
11
8
'
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1893.
Series I. Series II.
Number Number Number Number
drawn. guessed. drawn. guessed.
10 20 2 4
12 8 5 5
4 12 20 9
3 3 13 14
16 16
Total : twenty-one trials ; five successes (four in the first series,
and one in the second) ; most probable number of successes by chance
alone, one.
Colours.
Colour thouffht of. Colour Guessed.
.
Scarlet. Pink.
Yellow on blue. Yellow and green.
Oranse. Brick-red.
Brown. Brown.
Light blue. Sky-blue.
Yellow, , Green-brown.
Black. Black.
Green '
Crimson.
Pink. Lilac.
Blue. Orange-red.
Two sets of experiments in the transference of diagrams were made.
The original drawings and reproductions were sent to us. The fii'stset,
in December, 1891, consisted of three experiments.
(No. 1.) Oriyinal, a triangle painted red. Reproduction, a
triangle, in the same position as the original, and with angles about
equal to the corresponding angles of the latter, but with two of its sides
produced. Note made : "Seen instantaneously as a hlack shape ; asked
what colour ; red named as distinct impression."
(No. 2.) Original, a yellow disk, with a peacock-blue central spot.
Heproduation, two concentric disks, the smaller marked " white," the
larger marked " yellow."
(No. 3.) Oriyinal, a Maltese cross, arms yellow, the centre and
the enlargements at the ends of the arms a dark peacock-blue. Repro-
duction, a roughly drawn triangle, shaded, marked "dark-blue or
black." Note made : " Something else (yellow on each side), shape
indistinct. Both tired, left off before completing figure."
The second set, on June 26fch, 1892, consisted of six experiments.
The diagrams were drawn in outline, in thick black lines on white
paper. None of them were reproduced accurately. A snake was
Jan,, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
described as a " tobacco pipe with long stem, twirling about as if held
by someone at centre of stem."
Miss Campbell thus describes the impressions that she had as per-
cipient ;
—
" The impressions were sometimes visualised by the percipient ;
e.g,
the colour diagrams ;
[the red triangle (No. 1)] being very distinct
as to shajK, but the colour being the result of a different kind of im-
pression, more nearly approaching the auditory than the visual, but in
[the yellow disk (No. 2)] of the same set, colour and shape were
visualised at the same time. None of the cards or numbers were
visualised, the percipient merely feeling as if impelled to name the par-
ticular card or number. In the colour experiments, the impression
was received sometimes one way, sometimes the other. In the experi-
ment of June 22nd (scalpels) the impression was visualised, in that of
October 25th (gloves) there was first an auditory impression, as if some-
one had said the word "gloves " and then the gloves themselves were
visualised."
Miss Despard adds :
—
" The agent invariably visualises her thoughts."
The two last experiments referred to in the above letter are of the
greatest interest, since in them the agent and percipient were in
different places.
The account of them is as follows :
—
^-^Q^ l
" June 22nd, 1892.
" Arranged that R. C. Despard shall, when at the School of
Medicine in Handel-street, W.C., between 11.50 and 11.55, fix her
attention upon some object which C. M. Campbell, at 77, Chesterton^
road, W., is by thought-transference to discover."
Percipient's Account.
"Owing to an unexpected delay, instead of being quietly at home at
10 minutes to 12, I was waiting for my train at Baker-street, and as
just at that time trains were moving away from both platforms, and
there was the usual bustle going on, I thought it hopeless to try on my
part, but just while I was thinking this, I felt a sort of mental pull-up,
which made me feel sure that Miss Despard was fixing her attention,
and directly after I felt ' my—compasses—no scalpel '
and seemed to see
a flash of light as if on bright steel, and I thought of two scalpels, first
with their points together, and then folding together into one ;
just
then my train came up.
" I write this down before having seen Miss Despard, so am still in
ignorance whether I am correct in my surmise, but as I know what
Miss Despard would probably be doing at 10 minutes to 12, I feel
8 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research, [Jan., 1893,
that that knowledge may have suggested the thought to me—though
this idea did not occur to me until just this minute, as I have written
it down,"
0. M. CampbelIj.
77, Chesterton-road, W.
. Agent's Accoukt, .
"At 10 minutes to 12 I concentrated niy mind on an object that
happened to be in front of me at the time—two scalpels crossed with
their points together—but in about 5 minutes, as it occurred to me
that the knowledge that I was then at the School of Medicine might
suggest a similar idea to Miss Campbell, I tried to bring up a country
scene, of a brook running through a field with a patch of yellow marsh
marigolds in the foreground. This second idea made no impression on
Miss Campbell—perhaps owing to the bustle around her at the time."
R. C. Despaed.
(No. 2.) •
October 25th, 1892.
"At 3.30 p.m. R. C. Despard is to fix her attention on some
object and C. M. Campbell, being in a different part of London, i? by
thought-transference to find out what that object is."
Percipient's Account.
"At 3.30 I was at home at 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington,
alone in the room.
" First my attention seemed to flit from one object to another while
nothing definite stood out, but soon I saw a pair of gloves which
became more distinct till they appeared as a pair of baggy tan-coloured
kid gloves, certainly a size larger than worn by either R. C D. or
myself, and not quite like any of ours in colour. After this I saw a
train going out of a station (I had just returned from seeing someone
off at Victoria), almost immediately obliterated by a picture of a bridge
over a small river, but I felt that I was consciously thinking and left
off the experiment, being unable to clear my mind sufficiently of out-
side things."
A.gent's Account.
" At 3.30 on October 25th I was at 30, Handel-street, Brunswick-
square, W.C. C. M. C. and myself had arranged beforehand to make
an experiment in thought-transference at that hour, I to try to
transfer some object to her mind, the nature of wliicli was entirely un-
specified. I picked up a pair of rather old tan-coloured gloves—pur-
posely not taking a pair of my own—and tried for about 5 minutes
to concentrate my attention on them and the wish to transfer an
Jan., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
impression of them to C. M. O.'s mind. After this I fixed my attention
on a windoiv, but felt my mind getting tired and therefore rather
disturbed by the constant sound of omnibuses and waggons passing the
open window.
October 25th, 1892." R. C. Despard.
Miss Campbell writes later :
—
• .
'77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, W.
J^'ovemher Uth, 1892.
" "With regard to the distant experiments, the notes sent to you
were the only ones made. In the first experiment (scalpels) I wrote my
account before Miss Despard's return, and when Miss Despard re-
turned, before seeing what I had written [she] told me what she had
thought of, and almost directly wrote it down.
" In the second experiment (gloves), I was just going to write my
account when Miss Despard returned home, and she asked me at once,
'
Well, what did I think off and I told her a pair of tan gloves—then
sat down and wrote my account, and when she read it through, she
said 'Yes, you have exactly described Miss M.'s gloves, which I was
holding while I fixed my attention on them,' and then she wrote her
account,"
OASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 947. A-i P" Apparition.
The following account of an apparition seen at the time of death
by an accident refers to an event that took place many years ago, but
seems to have been carefully investigated at the time and was written
down the day after it happened by the late Sir Thomas Fowell
Buxton.
For a copy of the original manuscript we are indebted to Mr.
G. Pagenstecher, who writes in sending it :
—
206, Portway, West Ham, E., January 2Uh, 1891.
The enclosed story [was] taken down by the distinguished philanthropist,
the late Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, M.P., from the lips of the person to
whom the vision appeared, the day after the event. It was on the 2nd of
September, 1834, that at Northrepps Hall, the seat of Sir Fowell Buxton,
about a mile from Cromer, the family kept the birthday of their eldest son
(the late Sir Edward North Buxton). In the evening several guns were
fired, one of which burst and killed the gamekeeper Curtis.
Sir Fowell adds: Dinner began at 6.15 p.m., and the accident took
place when the dessert was brought on the table. Curtis saw the vision
when it was still light enough to see a person 200 yards oft".
10 ^
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan.. 1803.
About 25 years after, I lived in the Buxton family as tutor ;
one evenmg
the conversation turned on visions and apparitions, and among others Curtis s
story was told. Tlie next day I copied Sir Fowell Buxton's origmal M.b.
and called upon Curtis, a very quiet, unimaginative, matter-of-fact person, and
asked him about it. His answer was, that every word of it was true, and that
he distinctly remembered all the circumstances, as if they had happened only
the day before. '
g. p^oenstecher.
Oopy of the orkiinal M.S. of the late Sir Thomas Foxoell Bnxton, M.P., of
Northrepps Hall, near Cromer; the ivords are the ipsissi^na verba of Giirtis, to
whom the vdsion appeared.
1 went to the Cottage ^
on the night of Mr. Edward's birthday, together
with my brother, the gamekeeper, as we had been asked to hre the guns
which we took with us. My brother was in excellent spirits, and talked and
lauc^hed all the way, and said what a pleasure.it was to liim to show respect
to the family (the Buxtoiis). When we arrived at the Cottage, we were
told that positive orders had been given that no Cromer guns should be
iired ; so I returned home, and my brother, very much disappointed, said he
should go to the Hall, to look to one of the horses' feet. When I got to
Cromer, and was going into the Brick Hill field, opposite Mr. Gurney
Hoare's house, I was surprised to see my brother coming to meet me. He
had on his velveteen shooting jacket, and walked in his usual manner it
was quite lic^ht, and I distinctly saw him. I turned my eyes away for a
moment to hjok at the g ite, and then he was gone. Ic was so light that i
saw a gentleman walking on the cliff, about 20D yards off, and recogmsed
him as Ml'. Gardon. I was much struck with the apparition, but I passed it
off my mind and went to the cliff, and heard some people singing for about
half an hour^when a boy s iid to me, " Have you heard of the accident to
your brother at Northrepps Hall V I replied, " No, but if an accident has
happened to my brother, I knon^ he is dead."
We afterwards reosived independently through Mr. R. H. Inglis
Palgrave a third-hand account of the same incident, written by Mr,
Henry E. Buxton, on October 5th, 1891, which we print below
Colne House, Cromer.
On the occasion of the marriage of Mary Upcher to Edmund C. Buxton,
September 3rd, 1834, there were some festivities at Northrepps Cottage.
Two brothers Curtis proposed to iire off their cannon there (they were
blacksmiths). My grandfather (Sir T. Fowell Buxton) did notjvish this ;
but they persevered. On the way one brother said, " Well, as Mr. Buxton
(afterwards Sir T. F. B.) does not wish it, I shall go home.' When he got
near Cliff House, Cromer (Mr. Hoare's residence), his brother, who had
gone on to the Cottage to fire the cannon, passed him on the road, but
althouo-h addressed did not answer, and soon disappeared.
He went home and told what had happened before he heard that his
brother had been killed by the cannon exploding.
'
"The Cottage " was the home of the late Miss Anna Gurney, and is about one
mile from Cromer, and a quarter of a mile from Northrepps Hall.
Jax ,
1803.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
Richard Hoare (son of Mr. Hoare mejitioiied before, and now living)
was nob present, but remembers the facts perfectly, and that his father
satisfied himself that Curtis had mentioned the apparition and disappear-
ance of his brother before he heard of the accident.
Henry E. Buxton.
It will be sean that there are a few minor details in which Mr.
Buxton's narrative differs from the account written at the time, but
these hardly affect the evidence, which is further strengthened by some
information given by Mr. Inglis Palgrave himself. He says :
—
"My father (Sir F. Palgrave) had been told of [the incident] at the
time it occurred, and had made a note [of it] in a book containing similar
stories. ... I have been imable to trace the existence of the
book. . . . The story [given by Mr. Buxton] is to my remem-
brance substantially the same as that in my father's notebook. There
are, I think, rather more details in my father's account, which I believe
was taken down from the statement of the survivor. I think it is mentioned
either that the survivor spoke to the appearance and received no answer
or that he was surprised at not being spoken to by his brother, but the
main story is to the same effect—that the appearance was seen before
the news of the accident had reached the survivor. The time of the
appearance is stated, I think, in my father's account as being identical
with that of the accident.
"
R. H. Inglis Palgravi;.
L 948. A'l P^ Dream Impression.
Sent by the Rev. Aug. Glardon, M.A., to Mr. Myers.
Tour-de-Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland, Odoher 1st, 1892.
In 1868 I had in niy Bible-class a young man, aged 16, to whom 1 was
very much attached. He became consumptive, and died after a few months
illness. I used to go and sit by him for an hour every day during his illness.
He had an intense love for me, and was very anxious that I should be
present at the moment of his death. During the last day I spent more
time with him, and took leave of him only at 9 o'clock at night. I expected
he would continue living for a day or two.
During the following night I was sleeping soundly, when I felt that
Adrien Hary was beside me. I did not see him, nor did I hear his voice. I
just felt that he was close to me, intimating by his presence that he was
going away nto the other world. He remained a very short time— say, one
second—and went away.
The moment he left me, I felt drawn away after him, my whole being
being, as it were, on the point of meking, of getting dissolved and follow-
ing him. The impression was so powerful that I feel it now in my memory.
With a great effort I awoke. My forehead was covered with cold dew.
I woke my wife, saying to her : "Adrien has just left, and has been with me
to let. me know." She struck a match ; it was a quarter past two.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan.,
We slept again till sunrise. A little after six o'clock the gate-bell was
rung, and soon after one of our servants came behind our door to say :
" Mrs,
Hary sends word that her son died last night."
" At what o'clock ?
"
"A little after two."
I made immediately a memorandum of the whole in my diary. 1 have
never had another experience of the same kind.
I insist on this ; that Adrian did not come to me in the body, but as a
spirit, without shape and without voice. Still I have not had the least
hesitation in recognising him. , ri -r
^ Aug. Glakdon.
In answer to Mr. Myers's inquiries, M. Glardon said that the
diary in which he had recorded his experience had been destroyed, but
he continues
^^^^^^ ^^^2.
I send you an official extract of the obituary register of our town, con-
cerning my young friend. I see that the hour of his death is put down as
being one o'clock in the morning. It is a discrepancy for which you can
account as you like. I affirm that I woke up at a quarter past two, and that
the maid told us : "A little after two," or " some time after two." My
friend's relations were in very humble circumstances, no instruction at all—
I dare say they were not very careful of the time. The mother sent word :
' '
A little after two." The father, when interrogated by the Civil Secretary,
may have said :
" One o'clock."
I have subjoined some lines by my wife. She does not remember about
the precise time.
The following is the official obituary notice sent by M. Glardon
Tour-de-Peilz, U 14 Odohre, 1892.
•
Extrait du Registre des Inhumations de la Commune de La Tour de
Peilz, du 19 Juin, 18(38. Hary, Adrien Henry, age de 15 ans 5 mois, d^cM^
a La Tour le 17 Juin, 1868, a 1 lieure du matin.
Pour extrait conforme I'atteste : J. Tkottets, Secretaire.
Mme. Glardon writes :
—
The only recollection I have of the event related by my husband is that,
duvm<r one night in June, 1868, he woke me up to tell me that his young
pupil '"Adrien Hary, had just died, and had come in the spirit to tell him of
it ; and that when the news of his death was brought to us in the morning,
it was found to correspond with the time of my husband's dream.
Tour-de-Peilz, Uth October, 1892. Augusta Glakdon.
G. 229. Visual. Haunted House. •
'
In the following case the ground for regarding the experience as not
purely subjective is the evidence that it occurred independently to more
than one person in the same house. This evidence, however, is only
third-hand and cannot now, probably, be improved. We may observe
that complicated visions of the sort here described are shown by our
Jan-., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 13
census of hallucinations to be much less common than apparitions of
single figures.
Statement by Mary Mortlock, noiu servant to the Rev. F. Sail, Bectbr of
Fryern Baniet, North Finchley, Middlesex. Taken down by Mr. F. W. H.
Myers from her lips, A-pril 5th, 1888 ; then revised a.nd signed by her.
I never heard or saw anything in any way extraordinary until I went to
be cook at Lodge about December 18th, 1883. I had heard nothhig
whatever about the house. I was engaged by a Mrs. Bain, who liad taken
the house for 6 months from Mrs. Jackson, I believe. As I came up to the
front door of the house for the first time I saw a face looking out at me from
the windows above the door. It seemed to be a woman's face, very serious
and stern, with the hair close to the head. It did not smile when I came up,
but still I thought it must be one of the maids, and I said to them, '
' I saw -
you were expecting me and looking out." They said that no one had been in
the room or looked out of the window.
I was put to sleep in that same room, along with another maidservant.
We went to bed and turned down the gas till only a little button of gas was
alight. Then it seemed to me that the gas turned red and there came more
light in the room than the gas would make. The wall opposite my side of
the bed, a few feet away, seemed to disappear, and I saw a round table
with a red cover and an old lady reading at it, and girls sitting round it.
They seemed to be about 12 years old, in high dresses, but I could not
see more than their heads and shoulders. They made no noise. Then they
disappeared, and then came men with daggers and hilts and girdles, and a
sort of capes and plumes in their hats, and sandals on their feet, who seemed
to fight. These made a loud noise. When one of them was struck he
seemed to fall down. The fight seemed to take place in daylight. All this
seemed to last about half an hour, then all vanished. I was so terrified that
I could not move or speak while it went on. I pei-spired so much with fear
that the mattress was soaked on the side where I lay.
This happened night after night about 20 times, the same figures ap-
pearing, except that sometimes there would be a man with spectacles reading
at the table instead of the old lady. And one night a white figure seemed
to leave the group of men who were fighting and to pass round by the end of
the bed and disappear into the wall.
I told nay fellow servant something of what I saw, and asked her to notice
that tlie gas turned red as soon as it was turned low. But she could not see
this, and laughed at me, and said that it was all nonsense, and always went
to sleep before the figures came. I did not dare to say any more about the
figures, and I got very ill with the fright. I could hardly eat anything, and
was too weak to do my work. A doctor was sent for and said that I had had
some great mental shock. I did not dare to mention the figures, and I had
had no other shock. I became a regular invalid and should liave had to go
to the hospital but that my mistress very kindly wished me to stay, though
I could only sit down in the kitchen and direct the cooking, which the
gardener's wife, Mrs. Hoe, did for me. But after the doctor came the gas
was always left high all night, aiid I saw the ligures no more. I was seriously
14 Journal of Society for PsycUcal Research. [Jan., 1893.
ill for four months, and it was more than a year before I got over it. I
stayed in the place till Mrs. Bain left, in May, 1884.
Durino- my stay the gardener, who lived in a separate buildmg a few yards
from the house, repeatedly complained of noises in a lumber-room next to
his bedroom and accused us girls of going there and playmg tricks on him,
which we did not do. The house is an old one, I believe of Queen Elizabeth s
time, , 1 1 ui •
I liave never seen or heard anything strange since then, and my health is
now good. I have heard from Mrs. Judd, the wife of a former gardener at
^Lodo-e that the house has long been haunted, and that a servant-
girl had to^leave it from being made ill by fright, long before my time. Mrs.
Wallace, an old inhabitant of Fmchley, has also told me that the house was
haunted. Of this I knew nothing when I went to the place.
! (Signed) Mary Mortlock,
April 12th, 1888. Oxford House, North Fincliley. .
Mrs. Hall, in whose house Mr. Myers saw Miss Mortlock, writes :—
The ' '
Judd "
to whom .Jane [Mary Mortlock] referred was gardener before
she went to Fincliley, and has been dead about six years. He slept over
the laundry himself, to look after the fires-his wife and children, 11 m
number livin^ elsewhere, there being only this one sleeping room. He
often heard and saw terrible things, he told his wife, but never would reveal
'
I have sifted Mrs. Wallace well. All that I can elicit is, that she had
been told by a Mrs. Moore, who many years ago had stayed at —-
Lodge that she had seen exactly the same figures which had troubled
Jane She has been dead about six years, so it is impossible to follow up
her statement. Its one value is, that it is a corroboration of Jane s
story. Mrs. Wallace has never seen or heard anything herself, and has
never been in the house.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Coidinned frum the Nuvemhcr Jovn^A-L.) .
'
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will he gratefully received.
B G 35 The Rev. E. H. Newenham tells us that he saw the figare of a
child at cate of churchyard. When he reached the gate, he spoke to the
child which immediately vanished. One or two persons to^ whom he
mentioned the incident said the figure was probably the spirit of child
supposed to have been buried alive some years l^efore m that churchyard.
No date given. Recorded February, 1889.
B G 3G Reference sent by Mr. E. Westlake to an oration on "The
Apparitions at Llanthony "
(1880) by "Father Ignatius," published m 1886.
B G 37 Visual. Collective. 2nd hand. (See B L 86.) M. A. de Rochas
informs us in 1889 that his father and a child in different rooms saw the
cousin of the former by their beds on the night after his death. Ihis
occurred in the house where the corpse was lynig. No date given.
B G 38. Visual. Mr. F. Sidebottom sees in church during morning
service appearance like "black clear mist " in outline of a man ;
transparent.
Jan., 1893.] Journal of Society for Pstichical Research. 15
It moved about th(5 bliaich for some time, and 'finally vanished. About a
fortnight later, Miss Maclean told Mr. Sidebottom that she had seen the
same thing, but we have not been able to procure this lady's account. No
date given. Recorded October, 1888.
BG 39. Correspondence ?-c
" Sayer's Ghost," of Pulham, St. Mary's,
Norfolk. Date, 1500-1600.
B G 40. Visual. 2nd hand. Lady B. in Continental hotel sees man
in her bedroom at night. After repeated orders to retire he mysteriously
disappears—certainly not by door or window. Next day Lady B. makes
landlord prove that there is no secret exit from the room. In the course
of the day she hears that a visitor died in t!ie hotel during the past night.
Getting permission to view the corpse. Lady B. immediately recognises it
as that of the man seen in her room. Recorded in November, 1890, by
gentleman who heard the matter discussed with Lady B. in the autumn of
1841, but he does not tell us the date of the events.
B G 41. Abstract printed in connection with L. 848 in Journal
Vol. IV., p. 307.
BG42. Two or three years after deatli. Visual and afterwards Tactile.
Percipient, Lady Jenkinson. Mrs. V. appears to her in boudoir coming in
from drawing-room and disappears. Lady J. then goes into drawing-room.
As she passes a cabinet in which she used to keep letters from Mrs. V.
which she believed she had destroyed, she feels a hand on her shoulder
—
characteristic of Mrs. V. —feels impelled to look in cupboard, and finds an
old letter from her. Date of record 1890, but that of experience not given.
B G 43. Noises. Miss E. G. A. Jackson and her father and mother
lived in a new house for nearly three years, in which they were constantly
troubled by unaccountable footsteps in the passage, staircase, and rooms.
Once when sitting up nursing she heard a loud scream in the room, which
was also heard by the patient and by a nurse upstairs. Date, "Some years
ago." Recorded March, 1886.
B G 44. Noises. The Rev. W. M. H. Church and his family when
living in a very old country rectory heard great crash like heavy chest
of drawers being dashed down. After they left, caretaker's_ boy heard
similar noise, and later the caretaker and liis wife also heard it together.
Other unexplained noises were also heard by the family and visitors.
Date, about 1870. Recorded August, 1886.
B G 45. Ac^ pn Visual and Auditory. Borderland. Miss M. W. P.,
who was in no anxiety about her brother, was wakened by hearing his voice
call her several times. She sat up and saw him standing at the foot of Jier
bed. Apparition said :
" I could not go without telling you good-bye," and
disappeared. Miss P.'s sister testifies that the above was mentioned to her
and to several schoolfellows next day. About six weeks later, news arrived
of the brother's death by drowning, which occurred in Texas at about 2 p.m.
on a Friday, while the dream took place in New York at about 1 a.m. on the
Sunday. Date, April, 1865. Recorded March. 1885.
B G 46. Transitional. 2nd hand. Mr. Coulson Kernahan informs us
that, some days after his mother's death, his sister, when kneeling at her
bedside, looked up and saw her mother standing beside her. She smiled and
vanished. There had been a promise to appear after death if possible.
Date not given. Recorded June, 1887.
B G 47. Through American Branch. Mrs. K. E. Alexander and her
daughter, at diflerent times, hear toilet set rattle, and daughter feels dress
pulled. Subsequently, when in bed, Mrs. Alexander felt the bedclothes
pulled and her face slapped. She concluded that dead relative to whom
toilet set and dress had belonged was displeased about distribution of effects
;
she therefore addressed the supposed presence, explaining that no unfair
16 Journal of Socidy for Psyddcal ' Research. [Jan. .
is9o.
c c c f (
division of property^'had'Leeu'SiWd^; Tliei4 Wfale ;n6: more disturbances.
Date of events, 1889. Recorded, December, 1890.
„.pQmnPS
B G 48 Visual. Collective. Mr. and Mrs. Morns at country house o miles
from anywhere saw in the evening a man accompanied by a
^Y^''''''
approach. Suddenly the figures unaccountably disappeared, and tliougn
cLefully searched for could not be found. Date, Septeml^er, 1884.
Recorded December, 1884. ^fi;„i,f
B G 49 Mr H. M. L. sleeping at house near Leeds saw a patch oi ngnc
on the ceiVincr There was nothing to account for it—no gas or fire m room,
?oc.'y nicdit, no moon. Mr. L. retired under the bed-clothes for 20 minutes,
and whe°n he looked up light had gone. He then hearf footsteps cross the
room. House reported haunted. No date. Recorded April, 1884.
B G 50 Fixed local. Returning home in the evening after a long
drive the Misses Leslie passed through a valley. Here the " steady coD
suddenly lumped into the air, kicked violently, and destroyed the carnage
They afterwards discovered from guide-book that valley was regarded as
haunted since a certain murder, travellers being warned not to venture
throucrh it at eventide. Date, October, 1881. Recorded, August 188J.
B G 51. Visual. 2nd hand. The Rev. W. K. W. Chafy-^Chafy informs
us that a young man-cervant of his rented a cottage at Church Lench
Retiring tenants had stated that during past 40 years they frecpiently aw
the <rli„st of a woman. Within the first week the new tenant saw the ghost
two nights running ; and refused to sleep there again. Persons who subse-
quently watclied in the house saw nothing. Events, October, 188b. Re-
corded same month.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the lad Ud C Journal" for August, 1892}.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
RIBOT (Th. ), The Diseases of Personality. xVuthorised Translation,
^ '
Cliicarjo, loHi
Geossmann (Dr. J.), Die Erfolge der Suggestionstherapie
(Hypnose) bei Influenza •••
RiNGiER (Dr. Georg), Erfolge des therapeutischen Hypnotismus
in der Landpraxis. Mit einem Vorworte von Prof. Dr. Aug.
cy 1 Munclien, 1891
Forel .
„
Zeitscheift FtiK Hypnotismus, Suggestionstherapie, Sugges-
tionslehre und verwandte psychologische Forschungen.
Redigirt von Dr. J. Grossmann. Heft 1 and 2 Berlin, 1892
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Batcheloe (Rev. John), The Ainu of Japan .. ......... J^om/o., 1892
Doddridge (P., D.D.), The Life of the Hon. Colonel Gardiner
GAERETT(Mrs. Julia E.), Mediums Unmasked. An Expose of
Modern Spiritualism Los Angeles, Gal. 1892
Proceedings of the Psychological Society of Great Britain
1875—1879 Privately Printed London, 188U
Scott (Rev. Walter), The Existence of Evil Spirits Proved,
^ London, 18oo^
BoisSARiE (Dr.), Lourdes; Histoire Medicale, 1858-1891, Pdrls, 1891
'
Presented by Mr. Pvobert H. Howard.
No. XGVIi.-VoL. VII.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOK PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Xew Members and Associates
Annual Business Meeting . .
Meeting of the Council
General Meeting
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
Balance Sheet for the year 1892
PAGE
17
19
20
21
22
31
31
32
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
Professor Sabatier, Montpellier, France.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
Goodrich Freer, Miss A., Holy Trinity Vicarage, Glo'ster-gdns., W.
MEMBERS.
Ashbourne, The Lady, 23, Fitzwilliam-street, Dublin.
Doyle, A. Conan, M.D., 12, Tennison-road, South Norwood, S.E.
Sharpe, James W., M.A., Woodroflfe, Portarlington-road, Bournemouth.
Tanner, Slingsby, 104b, Mount-street, Berkeley-square, W.
ASSOCIATES.
Allen, Miss Mary Gray, U, Queen's-square, W.C.
Blackburn, Ernest M., 31, Albert Hall Mansions, London, S.W.
Buchanan, H. B. M ,
B.A., 9, Upper Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
BuNNETT, A. Sylvester, 35, Whitehorse-road, Croydon.
Cousens, Charles Hughes, 7, Staple Inn, London, W.C.
Cousins, A. F., Hotel Beaurivage, St. Moritz, Switzerland.
CowpER, The Hon. Mrs. Spencer, 38, Rue Jean Goujon, Paris.
Duff, Charles E., M.B., 122, High-street, Deptford.
Eustace, John N., M.D., Highfield, Drumcondra, Co. Dublin.
Furnivall, Percy, Belgrave Hospital for Children, London, S.W
Garner, Edwin T., Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhurst, Surrey.
Holland, J. F. R., M.D., Kulm Hotel, St. Moritz, Switzerland.
-Jenkinson, Mrs. F. R. G., 112, Sloane-street, London, S.W.
Legge, The Lady Frances, Woodsome, Huddersfield,
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Fkb., 1893 .
Librarian, School of Arts, Brisbane, Queensland.
LoEWE, Hugo L., 3, Southampton-street, London, W.C.
Stevenson, R. L., Vailinia Plantation, Upolu, Samoan Islands.
Swire, Henry, Captain, 198, Herbert-road, Woohvich.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBERS.
Casky, Theodore B., Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A. •
^,
Cheney, W. T., 220, Broad-street, Rome, Georgia, U.S.A.
Greeley, Mrs. C. A., Nashua, Iowa, U.S.A. •
'
ASSOCIATES.
Albery, Mrs. Florence L., Colusa, Cal., U.S.A.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jun., 10, AVest :30th-st., New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
CoLSON, W. A., Cor. Buckner-ave. and Bluff-street., Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Cook, George, C, 1,734, Cambridge-street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
CooNLEY, Mrs. John C, 620, Division-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Corser, Mrs. E. S., 1,819, Vine-place, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Dailey, Judge, Abraji H., 16, Court-street, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Darron, Clarence S., 3,559, Vernon-avenue, Chicago, HI., U.S.A.
Dickey, Calvin, M.A., c/o Messrs. Morris Gause & Co., Chamber of
Commerce, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Gleason, Dr. Adele A., The Sanatorium, Elmira, N.Y., U.S.A.
GoDDARD, George A., 1, Mount Vernon-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Harris, John J., St. Louis Insane Asylum, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 813, S. 3rd-street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
HoYLE, William, P.O. Box 407, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
HusE, William, Ponca, Dixon County, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Jones, George H., 561, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Kelley, W. C, Shelbyville, III, U.S.A.
Librarian, Cassadaga Lake Library Association, Lily Dale, N. J., U.S.A.
MACLEOD, Miss Gertrude E., 1, Berkeley-st., Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Oliver, George S. J., Santa Barbara, California, U.S.A.
Quirk, Charles H., M.D., 12, Bowdoin-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Randall, H., Ann Arbor, Mich., U.S.A.
ScHOFiELD, Edward, 713, N. 17th-street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.^
Smith, WiNFiELD, Langham Hotel, Washington-st., Boston, Mass., U.S. A.
Stockton, John P., Jun., Highwood, Bergen County, N.Y., U.S.A.
Tilton, Howard W., 12, Pearl-street, Council Bluffs, Iowa, U.S.A.
ViELE, Herman K., 1,722, Connecticut-avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Watson, Mrs. F. S., 263, Clarendon-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
White, Mrs. Harriet B., 49, E. 73rd-street, New York City, U.S.A.
Wilson, Tom L., Room 10, Chapin Block, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
I'lCB., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 19
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
The Eleventh Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the
Society was held at the Westminster Town Hall on the 27th of
January, the President in the chair.
Referring to the continued growth of the Society, the President
said that during the year 1892 the total number of Members of all
classes had increased from 759 to 804. During last year the American
Branch had also increased from 398 to 480.
The President held in his hand an audited statement of the receii^ts
and expenditure for 1892 which would ap^aear as usual in the Joui^nal,
and a letter from the auditor in which he said :
" It gives me pleasure
to say that I have audited your accounts for the last year, and duly
certified their accuracy, finding the same care exercised by Mr.
Bennett as has been always shown in these periodical examinations."
A statement of assets and liabilities at the close of 1892 showed an
excess of assets of £170 as against the corresponding amount of £1.3-5
a year ago. As in pi'evious years, no account is taken of the value
either of the Library or of the stock of Proceedings. Calling attention
to one or two items in the accounts, the President remarked that an
amount appeared as having been invested, which represented the
greater part of what had been received for Life Subscriptions, and
that they would be in a position very shortly to invest the remainder.
The financial position of the Society was steadily improving and quite
secure, though not yet so strong as he desired. An interesting item
which would be noticed among the receipts was " Second-Sight In(|uiry
Fund, £150." This sum had been placed at the disposal of the
Society by one of its meml^ers—the Marquis of Bute—in order that an
exhaustive inquiry into Second-Sight in Scotland might be instituted.
Arrangements were being made for carrying this out. The President
invited remarks on the financial position of the Society.
Proceeding to the annual election of a portion of the Council,
the President said that they would see by the notices which had been
sent round to Members, that all the live members of the Council who
retire in rotation offer themselves for re-election. No other nomina-
tions having been made, he had only to declare these five to be duly
elected as foUovr^s : —Professor Macalister, M.D., P.B.S., Prank Podmore,
Esq., H. Arthur Smith, Esq., Professor J. J. Thomson, P.R.S., and
J. Yenn, Esq., D.Sc, F.R.S.
There being no response to an invitation for remarks on the
general position or work of the Society, the President declared the
meeting at an end.
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Uesearch. [Fbb ,
1893.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual Business Meetnig,
the President occupying the chair, and there l^eing also present
:
Col. Hartley, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, AValter Leat,
F. ^Y. H. Myers, F. Podmore, S. C. Scott, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as
correct. ,
G W Balfour, Esq., M.P., Thos. Barkworth, Esq., the Earl ot
Crawford and Balcarres, K.T., and Sydney C. Scott, Esq., were co-opted
as members of the Council for the ensuing year in accordance with
Rule 17.
"
The election of Members of the Council at the Annual Business
Meeting was reported as stated above.
The Right Honourable Arthur J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., was
elected President of the Society for the ensuing year.
Professor H. Sidgwick was elected a Vice-President of the Society,
and also co-opted as a member of the Council for the ensuing
year.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was elected as Hon. Treasurer, and Messrs.
F. W. H. Myers and F. Podmore were elected as Hon. Secretaries for
the ensuing year.
The Committees were re-elected as follows, with power to add to
their number :
—
Committee of i2^/erence.—Professor Barrett, Dr. Walter Leaf, Pro-
fessor Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart
Robertson,' Professor Sidgwick, Professor Thomson, and Dr. J. Venn.
Literary Committee.—Mr. Thos. Barkworth, Rev. A. T. Fryer, Dr.
Walter Leaf, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Professor
Sidgwick, and Mrs. Sidgwick.
Library Committee.—J)r. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Finance Committee.—Mv. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
and Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
On the proposition of Professor Ricliet, brought forward by Mr.
F. W. H. Myers, Professor Sabatier, of Montpellier, France, was
elected a Corresponding Member for the current year. Miss A.
Goodrich Freer was elected an Honorary Associate of the Society for
the current year. Four new Members and eighteen new Associates,
whose names and addresses are given on the preceding pages, were,
elected. The election of three new Members and thirty new Associates
of the American Branch was recorded. ScA'cral more resignations from
various causes at the end of 1«92 were recorded.
Feb,, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 21
The lists of Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates
elected for the current year are published in Part XXIII. of the
Proceeduigs.
The Finance Committee was directed to prepare an estimate of
income and a scheme of expenditure for the current year, to be
presented to the next meeting of the Council.
The Council agreed to meet at 19, Buckingham-street, W.C., on
Friday, March 10th, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The .56th General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town
Hall, on Friday, January 27th, Pi'of. Sidgwick in the chair.
Prof. Sidgwick began by announcing that he took the chair no
longer as President, but as Vice-President of the Society. It had
always been the view of the Council—a view in which he himself
cordially shared—that it was desirable that the annual re-elections of
Presidents should be a reality, and that a change should be made from
time to time in the holder of that office. He had now the pleasure of
informing the meeting that Mr. A. J. Balfour had accepted the
Presidency for the year . 1893. Mr. Balfour had other avocations,
which might interfere with his frequent presence at the meetings of
the Society, but his interest in its work was strong, an.d had been
manifested from the earliest days of the Society's existence. It was,
of course, Mr. Balfour the philosopher, rather' than Mr. Balfour the
statesman, whom they had invited to preside over their deliberations
;
and he (the speaker) might remind his audience of the proof of the
Society's political neutrality afforded by the presence on the list of
its honorary members of the name of Mr. W. E. Gladstone.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers being then called upon for the announced
paper on " Motor Messages from the Subliminal Self," asked leave of
the meeting to begin by dwelling at more length than had been possible
at the last meeting upon the experiments in crystal-gazing to which he
attached so much importance. He was glad to hear that a gopd many
of the half-crown glass balls which the Assistant Secretary had on sale
had been purchased, and he hoped that several series of experiments
had been begun. Mr. Myers then explained the way in which this
experiment attached itself to various other experiments now beginning
to be tried in better-known departments of experimental psychology;
The substance of his remarks will be found in Part XXIII. of the
Proceedings, which has since' been issued. In conclusion, he urged the
essential similarity of these sensory automatisms and the motor auto-
matisms on which he now hoped to dwell at the ne^t meeting. ; _
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feh.. ]8fl3.
In the discussion which followed, Mr. Myers stated in reply to
questions that he had found it thus far impossible to say which form of
subliminal message was the most likely to convey truth. Crystal-vision,
automatic writing, table-tilting, raps (for in spite of the added diffi-
culties which they presented, he thought that raps v^ould have to be
dealt with as a genuine phenomenon)—all these modes of communica-
tion conveyed a vastly larger percentage of nonsense and error than of
provable truth. Yet hj each method in turn he held that provable
truth not previously known had been communicated in a proportion
quite beyond what chance could explain. Only prolonged experiment
could show which method was the best for each inquirer to follow, or
by what signs the veridical answers could be best discriminated from
amid the rubbish in which they often lay concealed.
Mr. Barkworth remarked on the part probably played by self,
suggestion in crystal-vision, and on the consequent need of keeping the
mind as blank as possible during the experiments.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The two cases that follow are instances of apparitions seen collectively,
about which there is little or no evidence to show that they coincided
with any event going on at a distance, or represented any actual person,
living or dead. A possible explanation seems to be that a purely
subjective hallucination on the part of one of the percipients was
transferred to the other, apparently by mental suggestion.
G. 230. Collective Apparition.
From Mr. Reginald Barber.
2-1, Lome-grove, Fallowfleld, Manchester, Januarij 21d, 1891.
In April of last year, while the light was still good, I was returning
home from a walk with uiy wife, and when within a few yards of the gate,
which opens into a straiglit path leading to the house, both my wife and I
saw a woman pass through the open gate and walk straight to the house,
when, on reaching the door, she disappeared. I ran to the door, opened it
with my latchkey, and expected in my astonishment to find her inside, for
she seemed to have walked through the door. It all seemed so real that I at
once searched the house, but in vain. We were the only two people in the
street, and did not see the figure until she entered the gate, when we
simultaneously exclaimed, "Who is that?" She seemed to come oub. of
space and go into space again in a most marvellous manner. She wore a
plaid shawl, and her bonnet was a grey-black with a bit of colour in it. We
could not remember hearing any sound as she Avalked, but otherwise we have
never seen anything more apparently substantial. It is impossible for us to
conceive how she could have disappeared if she had been of flesh and blood.
Feb., 1S93.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 23
If only one of us had seen this figure, I should have thought little about
it, as suoli cases of hallucination seem sufficiently common, and may be
accounted for by some physical or mental disturbance ; but the evidence in
this case jooints to the existence of something exterior to ourselves.
We are neither of us believers in ghosts or the like, but are two ordinary
matter-of-fact people, Reginald BARBErw
In answer to our inquiries, Mr. Barber wrote as follows :
—
Dear Sir, —^I received your letter this morning, and [will] now . . .
reply to your inquiries. "Did I or my wife see the figure first ?
" My wife
points out that I must have seen the figure first, for she did not see it until it
was well inside the gate. " Was there any expectation of a visit ? " Not the
least. "Give the distance of the apparition when it disappeared." A few
yards, I could not say exactly. When I have heard Mrs. Barber telling
friends of our experience, I have noticed that the figure presented to her
mind does not seem to have been exactly the same as that which was evident
to my mind. That would appear to support your theory that no real figure
existed. Again, Mrs. Barber is sure she spoke first (though I thought we
spoke at once), and, as she points out, I m w the figure first. This shows
that the figure was not suggested by one to the otlier in any ordinary mannei'.
Mrs. Barber, I trust, will send you an account of our experience while I
am from home.
I shall be glad to answer any further questions if you think the case calls
for them. Reginald Barber.
Mrs, Barber writes :
—
24, Lorne-grove, Fallowfield, January uOth, 1891.
I shall be much pleased to give you my account of " our ghost."
I may begin by saying that Lorne-grove is a very quiet thoroughfare of
no great length. During April last year the road was being paved, and
consequently in a very chaotic state—full of loose stones, &c. The pave-
ment on the opposite side to our house was already laid, so on returning
from our walk on the 19th of that month my husband and I kept on that
side of the road until we were exactly opposite our own gate. Up to this
time we had seen no one in the Grove.
My husband now began to cross the road, l)idding me follow, and take
care not to fall on the loose stones. I did so, naturally looking down at my
feet, until a little more than half way across the road, or about 6 yards from
the gate, when on raising my eyes I saw a grey figure walking up the path
to the door. She was then about a yard inside the gate, and although she
had appeared so mysteriously, I felt no surprise, she looked so thoroughly
commonplace and substantial. My husband saw her enter the gate, so there
can be no question as to which of us sft/c her first, but I was certainly the
first to exclaim: "Who is that?" although my husband's exclamation
followed so quickly that they might almost be considered simultaneous, as
indeed I believe Mr. Barber described them in his letter to you. I next
said: "Stop a moment and let us see who it is," but he answered, "No,
it is no good letting her ring," and hurried forward with his latchkey. The
24 Journal of Society for Psychioal Research, [Feb., ison
distance from the gate to the door is 7^ yards, and when I first saw the
figure I should be about G yards from the gate.
My husband would be at least a couple of yards in front of me, and as
he saw the figure actually turn in at the gate he had a better view of her
shawl and bonnet. I only saw that she was in grey, and that it was no
one we knew. She walked quietly up the path and then up the two steps
to the door, and I always fancy I saw her raise her hand as though to ring
the bell, but of that I cannot be sure, and then against the dark door she
vanished completely, certainly not more than 4 yards from where my
husband was standing. We were expecting no visitor, and our thoughts
were far away from the supernatural, for just before crossing the road we
had been saying how hungry we were, and how we should enjoy our supper,
I took special note of the date and hour, fully expecting we should hear
of some occurrence wliich nearly concerned us, but nothing has, so far,
transpired. GtERtrude Bakber.
Mr. Barber wrote later:
—
24, Lorne-grove, Fallowfield, Manchester, Fehnianj Qth, 1891.
Mrs. Barber tliinks the time we saw the apparition would be as nearly as
possible seven o'clock ; I merely remember it was about sunset. I am sure
it was light enough to see to read outside, and within there was no artificial
light burning. I remember searching the house by daylight to find the
figure we had seen. It was a beautiful, clear, calm evening. We do not
know that we have seen anything hallucinatory before or since. If we saw
a figure pass by in the street like the one we have described, its naturalness
would cause us to naake no observation. Mrs. Barber says she has often
tliought slie has seen a cat, though perliaps not with the distinctness of
nature. Suddenly seeing an object resemblaig a cat might, of course,
provoke the illusion.
Mr. Barber says that he has sometimes experienced an auditoiy
hallucination—namely, fancying that liis wife was calling him by
name from another room so distinctly that he rose to answer it, but as
he reached the door fancied he heard lier calling him back again. He
has heard her call him in this way three times, but has had no other
visual experience besides the one described above.
Mr. Myers called on Mr. Barber on August 1st, 1891, and gives
the following account of his interview:
—
August 2nd, 1891.
I saw Mr. and Mrs. Barber yesterday, and inspected the scene of the
apparition. It is c^uite clear that there was no real person on the step.
When Mr. and Mrs. Barber turned into the street, a very short and quiet one,
no one was visible. The figure appeared suddenly, entering the gate
through which you pass over a few yards of flagged walk and up two steps
to reach the front door.
The figure struck Mr. Barljer at the time as noiseless. It is not certai
that the figure looked tlie same to Mr. and Mrs. Barber. Mr. Barber, who
was in front and s;\w it best, noticed a check in the shawl, Mrs. Barber
Feb., 1S93.] Journal of Society for Psyddcal Research.
did not look carefully at the dress, but took it to be grey. Botli thought the
•yvoman a beggar, or something of that kind.
Mr. and Mrs. Barber have been about seven years in the house. No
servant has died there, nor did the figure resemble the previous occupant.
Neither of them has ever had any other similar experience.
F. W. H. Myeks.
G, 231. Collective Apparition.
From Mrs. B.
February 2nd, 1892.
I may say that I am not a believer in ghosts, and have no sympathy with
Spiritualism in any form ; am a member of a Baptist church in this city. I
give the following facts, to the best of my recollection, for what they are
worth, having never been able to find any satisfactory explanation thereof.
Our family was living in a large, comfortable house, called • Hall, which
had recently been taken for a term of years by my father, F. M., of .
There was a passage leading from the outside back door, past the pantry and
cellar doors to the servants' hall. On the left hand side of the passage,
looking towards the back door, there was an opening into the cellar, which
was reached by steep stairs. At the time of which I write I was sixteen
years of age, my sister, now Mrs. W., being one year older; the year
probably behig 1866 or 1867. It was towards twilight ; the time of the year
I have forgotten. My sister and I were walking together down the passage
towards the back door, when we distinctly saw the figure of an old woman,
dressed in shawl and bonnet, coming towards us, and pass us. We imme-
diately turned round, and saw the figure glide towards the cellar steps, where
she disappeared, the impression left upon our minds being that she had gone
down. As far as my memory serves me, I believe the phantom, or whatever
it was, was of a transparent, or, at any rate, of an ethereal nature, as she
passed us without inconvenience in the narrow passage. We were sur-
prised at seeing this strange figure, and followed her to look down the cellar
steps, but saw and heard nothing. I cannot say certainly at this distance of
time whether we were very much frightened, or whether we experienced any
particular sensations : but what is very clearly stamped upon my mind is the
ridicule heaped upon our story by any who heard it : for whenever we men-
tioned it we got so laughed at we soon ceased to speak of it at all. I may
say, in conclusion, my sister and I were in good health and spirits at this
time, and that nothing was further from our thoughts than the possibility of
seeing anything supernatural. The figure was that of a total stranger, I
have never had a similar experience either before or since. The impression
always remained upon my mind that I had seen an apparition, and I believe
my sister shared that impression. I related this incident to my husband
soon after we were married, and it is his interest in this story that has kept
it in my mind.
I declare the above to be correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
[Signed] M B .
[Signed] W- W (Witness to Mrs. B.'s signature).
26 Journal of Society for Psyckical Research. [Feb., 1S93.
AVe first heard of this incident from Mr. B., who gave an account
substantially the same as the above, but much less detailed. He
says : —
-
The old hall was afterwards occupied by J. M., but I never heard whether
he or his family ever heard or saw anything. There was a hazy report or
legend in the district, but nothing that was ever definite.
Personally I am and always have been greatly impressed by this incident.
My wife mentioned it quite incidentally soon after we were married (1872)
and has always preserved the same story. I do not think I over heard my
sister-in-law refer to it. They apparently felt that they were only laying
themselves open to ridicule by repeating the story. They could not explain
it, so dropped it.
The evidence of the other percipient, Mrs. W., was obtained through
Mr. B.'s kindness. In a later letter to us he says:
—
I learn from Mrs. W. that she is going to send you her statement of the
apparition she and Mrs. B. behoved they saw at Hall. My wife wrote
her to send her own impressions quite independently of her account, as what
you wanted was simple facts or statements apart from any leadings up to any
conceivable theory.
Mrs. W.'s account, enclosed in a letter dated March 12th, 1892, was
sent direct to us later, and is printed below. It will be observed that
the vague legend of "haunting" referred to by Mr. B. here takes a
somewhat more definite form.
Statement reganluvj a Glujst or Apparition seen at Hall.
Our family was residing at a large old-fashioned hall, called ,
which
.
had been taken for a term of years by our father, F. M., of . Before we
went to reside at the Hall we heard it was haunted, and the form of a lady
was supposed to have been seen about the place at certain times.
My sister, Mrs. B., was with me on the evening we behold the apparition.
We were on our way to the kitchen, where the servants were having a party,
and had j ust entered a long passage, which led to the servants' hall, when we
lieheld the form of a female, I cannot say whether young or old at this
distance of time, for this must have happened in 1866 or 1867. The figure
advanced towards us, then silently gbded past, went slowly down the long
passage, we watching all the time, until passing through the servants' hall,
v/hich was empty, it went through the doorway into the cellar. Instant
search was made by tlie servants, to whom we communicated our experience,
but nothing could be found, no trace of the mysterious being brought to
light. Most surely was it seen by both of us, and it was an unearthly
presence, as its whole appearance was semi-transparent and ethereal.
We related our adventure to the rest of the family, but receiving
nothing but scornful derision, we ceased to speak of what we had seen,
thougli its reahty will ever be stamped on our minds.
[Signed] L. S. W,
Feb,, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 27
The next two cases are instances of a kind of auditory hallu-
cination, the hearing of music, that seems to occur much more
rarely than the hearing of voices. Some similar cases were pulalished
in Phantasms of the Living. (See Vol. II., pp. 221, 223, and 639.)
The fact that the sounds were heard collectively suggests at first
sight that they may have been real—an explanation which it is always
more difficult to exclude in auditory than in visual cases. But the
whole circumstances, when closely examined, make this explanation an
extremely unlikely one.
L. 949. M P» Collective.
The following account was given by Miss Home, daughter of the
percipient, in a letter to Miss Ina White, through whose kindness we
received it. The letter was afterwards sent l)ack for Mrs. Home's
signature, which was added, so that the account, though written in
the third person, is really a first-hand one.
508, Union-street, Aberdeen, November 25th, 1890.
It is nearly thirty years ago now, but it is as vividly impressed on her
memory, as if it had happened yesterday.
She was sitting in the dining-room (in a self-contained house), which was
behind the drawing-room, with Jamie, my eldest brother, on her knee, who
was then a baby scarcely two years old. The nurse had gone out for the
afternoon, and there was no one in the house except the maid downstairs.
The doors of the dining-room and drawing-room both happened to be
open at the time. All at once she heard the most divine music, very sad
and sweet, which lasted for about two minutes, then gradually died away.
My brother jumped from mamma's knee, exclaiming "Papal papa," and
ran through to the drawing-room. Mamma felt as if she could not move
and rang the bell for the servant, whom she told to go and see who was in
the drawing-room. Wlien she went into tlie room, she found my brother
standing beside the piano and saying " No papa 1" Why the child should
have exclaimed these words was that papa was very musical, and used often
to go straight to the piano when he came home. Such was the impression on
mamma that she noted the time to a minute, and six weeks after she received
a letter saying her sister had died at the Cape, and the time corresponded
exactly to the minute that she had heard the music. I may tell you that my
aunt was a very fine musician.
[Miss] Emily M. Horne.
(Signed) December 11th, 1890. [Mrs.] Eliza Horne.
In answer to further inquiries, Miss Home wrote to IMiss White :
—
December llih, 1890.
I am sorry to say the note, which mamma took at the time, has been lost,
though she had it for more than twenty years after the event occurred.
The name of my aunt was Mary Sophia Ingles, she died on the 20th
February, 1861, at Durban, Natal. Mamma has lost sight of the servant
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1893.
for many years, which is a pity, as she might have been able to corroborate
the story. Mamma bids me say that her note corresponded not only to the
hour but to the minute of her sister's death.
G. 232. Collective. Auditory.
Sent by Mr. J. P. Quincy, a Member of the Americaia Branch,
well known to Mr. Hodgson.
From Miss Sarah Jenkins.
Hotel Mt. Vernon, 18, West Cedar-street, Boston.
March. 31st, 1891.
In the year 1845 Mr. Hervvig, a German, and a much esteemed musician,
who had for several years resided in Boston, Massachusetts, died suddenly
in that city. I was then a young girl, and knew him only through his high
reputation, and my own great enjoyment of his delightful performances on
the violin in public concerts. The only joersonal association I ever had with
him was, that in tlie winter before his death, in returning to my home from
that of a friend who was studying with me, I chanced for many weeks to
meet Mr. Herwig almost daily on a certain part of Beacon-street. It seemed
to be only an accident, but finally it became such a. constant occurrence that
he smiled on me kindly, and gave me a respectful little bow, which I ven-
tured as respectfully to return.
The following autumn he died, as I have said, very suddenly, and his
funeral took place on November 4th, 1845, in Trinity Church—then on
Summer-street, Boston. It was a solemn and touching service, attended by
a crowd of musicians and other eminent citizens, for all mourned the loss
of such an accomplished and valuable man. I was present with my sister,
and, in the midst of the services, there came to me a most unaccountable and
inexpressible feeling that he might then and there at once rise from the
coffin and appear in life again among us. Hardly knowing what I did, I
caught my sister's hand, exclaiming almost aloud, "Oh, he must, he must
come to life again !
" so very earnestly tha.t she looked at me in wonder and
whispered "Hush ! hush !
" That evening my mother, my two sisters, a
friend (Mr. S., from Cuba), and myself—live of us in all —were sitting in
our dining-room. No. 4, H. Street, Boston, while my sister and I were de-
scribing the funeral. My sister had just told of my singular exclamation
while there, and I was repeating the words, Avhen suddenly the room was
filled with a burst of glorious music, such as none of us had ever heard. I
saw a look of astonishment and even fear on every face, and, in a sort of
fright myself, I continued speaking incoherently when, once more, after a
sliglit pause, came a similar full swell of harmony which then died softly
away. My sister and I at once rushed to the hall door, which was but a few
steps from us, to discover if outside there were any music, but we heard not
a sound save the hard drizzle of a dark rainy night. I then ran upstairs to
the parlour over the dining-room, where was only a Quaker lady reading.
A piano was in that room, and, though it was closed, I asked, " Has anyone
been playing 1 " "No," she replied, " But I heard a strange burst of music,
What Wfis it ?
"
1'eb., 1893.] journal of Society for PsycUical Research.
Isuw, let it be understood that, as a family, we had never been supersti-
tious, but, on the contrary, had been educated to scoff at the idea of
ghosts, omens, &c., so that none of us announced this occurrence as super-
natural, but could only look at each other saying, " What was it ? " The
Quakeress, however, we found more excited than ourselves. She related
the experience to her daughters, who were absent at the time, and they
spent much time in perambulating the neighbourhood to discover if there
had been any music in the houses near ours ; but it was distinctly proved
that there had been none, nor had any been heard from the street. In fact,
what we heard seemed to be close around ourselves, as we each described it,
and unlike any we had ever heard.
It may seem strange that, after so many years, I should be able to de-
scribe so particularly this event. But I own it made a deep impression
upon the minds of all the hearers. I have often narrated it, and heard
the others narrate it in exactly the same way, and my sister, the only
one now living of that little company, will verify my description word
for word.
I add my replies to some questions which have been asked.
When we went to the hall door we looked up and down the street, wliich
was well lighted. Street performers upon musical instruments were abso-
lutely unknovvn in Boston at this period.
Mrs. S., the Quaker lady of whom I have spoken, was staying in the
house as a guest. I asked whether anyone had played upon the piano, not
because the music bore any resemblance to that of a piano, but to connect
it, if possible, with some natural cause.
The music appeared to all of us to be in the room where we were
sitting. It seemed to begin in one corner, and to pass round the room. I
said that it was like a burst of sunshine in sound, and can give no better
description of it.
My mother and Mr. S. agreed that the music was utterly inexplicable.
My sister and I, as well as the daughters of Mrs. S., made thorough in-
quiries at all the houses about us, but could hear nothing that could account
for the phenomenon. Sakah Jenkins.
Miss E. Jenkins corroborates as follows :
—
I have carefully read the above account written by my sister, and testify
to its accuracy.
Boston, 1890. Elizabeth Jenkins.
L. 950. Pn Apparition.
From the Rev. Soren Pederson, Pastor of the Scandinavian Church
of Melbourne, Australia.
282, Williams-street, Melbourne, January Utli, 1892.
I saw a very dear friend, about 70 years old, living in Christiania, at 7
o'clock in the afternoon, when walking about a year ago with some Australian
friends in one of the streets of Melbourne. I saw his face as in prayer, and
quite suddenly and near, so I did almost touch him. I was talking of
singing witli my friends, as we were going to practice at the time. I was
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea.rck [Feb., 1S'J3.
quite well and have never had liallucinations or anything like this before
or later. It was daylight and quite full of passers-by and vehicles, &c., in
the street.
I had not seen him since a year before, but it struck me so vividly that I
wrote home to Christiania, Norway, asking what did friend G. at that hour
(subtracting the 9 hours we are before here in Melbourne) and got the
answer: "Praying ro'i/ intensely for you and your mission in Melbourne."
Two [other persons were present] who saw nothing and were quite out-
side the whole incident.
I never studied "telepathy," but it occurs to me that this fact must be
connected with such a thing. Soiien Pederson.
In answer to our inriuiries as to whether the letter in which Mr.
Pederson had described the incident had been preserved, and whether
any corroboration of his experience could be obtained, we received some
time later the following letter from his father, Mr. Gustav Pederson, of
Christiania :
—
Clu-istiania, 9th Jane, 1892.
Deau Sie,—My son, the Rev. S. Pederson, Melbourne, having requested
me to give you an exact report of the vision he had, and of which he
informed you, I, in compliance herewith, nuist tell you, to my regret, that
the letter concerning this event has got lost in some way or other and has
not been found yet in spite of all rummaging. Nevertheless, I, as well as my
wife and son here, remember very well the contents of that letter runnmg
about as follows :
" What is the matter with Gundersen ? I stood yesterday in the street
(of Melbourne), conversing with a friend (a Scandinavian), when, without ni
the least thinking then of Gundersen, he appeared on a sudden before me
all alive, with In's pale face and black hair and beard, but looking very
serious.
'
The clock struck just 8 p.m. here on the (the day we cannot
remember), answering exactly to 11 o'clock a.m. with you. Do tell me, is ho
ill, or dead perhaps V , , , n
On seehig Mr. Gundersen after receipt of this letter, he told me he could
reniember well enough having been about live weeks ag(j (then), together
with other friends of his (my son), namely Mr. and Mrs. Jacobsen, and two
other ladies at the house of Mr. Jacobsen, conversing about my son, he
(Mr. Gundersen) after having read a chapter out of the Scripture, together
with the said friends, went on their knees in a fervent prayer to the Almighty
for him and family. Mr. Gundersen could not, however, on the spot, state
date and time when this took place, but told me a couple of days later that
he on examining at home some loose notes he used to put down, and after
having moreover conferred with the said friends thereabout, could now affirm
the exact day and hour of the said event to have occurred just at the same
time as said above.
Unfortunately Mr. Gundersen can also no longer find those notes, but
1 shall continue my researches for that missed letter of my son, and if I
succeed ^ive myself the honour to procure for you further particulars
'
to date, &c. «^-«TAV Pedeksox.
rs ay
Feb., 1893.] Journal of Society for Ptiyclucal ResearcJu 31
CORllESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Enniscorthy, Deceviher 23rd, 1892,
Dear Sir, —Some startling evidence of the extent to which the "Spirit"
photograph fraud is carried on in America having cc)me into my possession, and
also directions as to how frauds of this kind could be palmed off on the
deluded public, I communicated the same to three photographic friends of
mine in different places, requesting that they would experiment in this line
and report result to me. In two cases out of the three, the operators secured
good results—results well calculated to deceive a sitter as to their genuine-
ness—yet produced by mechanical means. Mr. M. Glover, photographic
artist, 124, Stephen's-green, Dublin (one of the friends alluded t(,)), has
kindly consented to place at the disposal of any well-knt)wn Spiritualist, or
Conmiittee of Spiritualists, an entire gallery and all necessary mechanism
for the develojunent of genuine spirit photographs, if such can he secured, and
he invites the co-operation of all parties interested. Moreover, it would be
well for intending experimenters to remember that there is so mucli
unconscious hallucination and deliberate fraud in this "spirit" photograph
business that " the nucleus of reality is liard to find," as the late Edmund
Gurney used to say. Of two "spirit" photographers I once knew, one
is at present in an asylum and the other in gaol.—Yours truly,
Joseph W. Hayes,
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Continued from tlie January JounNxVL.)
Further information improviny the evidence in any of these cases
will be yratefully received,
B G 52. Visual. Collective. —Mrs. Senhouso and Mr. J. M. Wilson
sitting in the garden about 10 p.m. see white figure like a woman, about 40
yards away. It does not move. They observe it for some time and then it
disappears. Both percipients send accounts. Event, May or June, 1880.
Recorded August 1888.
B G 53. 2nd hand. From Mrs. H. —(a) Her husband, after his death
in 1879, was seen by her daughter and by the servant. (6) Her mother was
seen by her husband and aunt collectively soon after her death, undated,
(c) First-hand. Mrs. H., in 1862, saw a sister, then in Australia, at the
time of her death. All recorded in 1890. Further inquiries unanswered.
B G 54. Visual. Fixed local. —Mr. J. B. K. sees figure of former
tenant standing in doorway of room in which he died. There was dim light
from window, whicli the figure obscured. Date, August, 1884. Recorded
July, 1885.
B G 55. Visual. Collective. Animal. —Rlr. F. A. Paley and friend
walking home at night on lonely road see a large black dog rise from
it, slowly walk to the side, and disappear. They search in vain. Mr. P.
hears subseipently that this mysterious dog is well known, and is the terror
of the neighbourhood ; but no such real dog is known. Date, summer,
1837. Recorded June, 1884.
32 Joui'nal of Society for Fsycldcat Mesearch. [Vs.ii., 1893.
o
Pi
<
w
Pi
O
I—
I
o
>^
Ph
Pi
O
H
I—
I
o
o
U2
OS
GO
CO
§
S
o
g
1
tq
Ct3
(N »
. -+ o
^' tH 1-1
o c^i CO cc o 1^ o '-^^ — th tr: c-^
tH r-( 1-1 rH rH rH i-liH
O O CO CO CO O iO o o *o CC iH l>- CO
-r CO COTTi—I t^CO rH^
rH
Q
PS
o :i o O e o
.-J C: rH CO
rH 1-1 rH ^
-t< o -f 01
O rH CC CO
rH rH
: : o :
^; : :
o o
2 Ph
y .'^IcOt-i :
.."^ Ph „
II I
CC O g ^ O o O
C CO d O rH rH
O rH " rH rH
rH ,x f-f
:
;
: ; ; ;J ; ; : ; .
^02 SP5 s £ S
a,° ^--^ o=« : : : : : : c3
^-S 3i bc'^-B o S g ^ : -^C^
^
^ Sg.S c i « £'P^:^'S'2?i nfxl7
m >^ Z <f ^ -i^ -a S :o3a»2
o 3 §'^'3 S o £.55 ^ o ? ^ P "ti;
owo«;c» fcKp^oMPH ep^f^ep3
I
CO
o
o o O O CO
o o a
o o
rH
o o
r-. o
(M
c3 C
» 3 c
i
gPnO
• rH - +^ rH
"• S c3
S S o
° 5 ¥
<1
•J
— ^'^'^
Ol rH fi
CO ccC;.
f-l
• ^ w
'3 bf> S
MP
o ^
EH
'
I
a
CD ^
" - c
CD r- QJ O >—' -U ""^ ^
HH o
d
ft
Hi
<J
m
o
a
o W
.S Ph
« O
o
o
0)
8
pq
J3
<5l
P!5
O
CD
CO
O
CO
o
Pi
No. XCVlII.-VoL. VI. _ March, 1893.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
Correspondence :
The late Mr. S. J. Davey's Experiments 33
Reply to the above 36
Meetings of the American Branch 48
The Edmund Gurney Library Fund 48
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE LATE MR. S. J. DAVEy's EXPERIMENTS.
{To the Editor of the Jouknax of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir, —In reference to the explanations of Mi\ Davey's methods of conjur-
ing, given by Mr. R. Hodgson in the Proceediivjs of July last, I wish to
make a few remarks. It is, of course, quite clear, from the facts now given,
tliat Mr. Davey was a very clever conjurer ; that he possessed the somewhat
rare natural faculties of the high-class prestidigitateur ; and that lie had culti-
vated these faculties in the special department of imitating slafe-ivritlivj and
other spiritualistic phenomena. It also seems clear to me that he possessed
the faculty of thought-reading and thought-impressing in a high degree ;
and,
further, it seems probable that he also possessed mediumistic power, whicli
occasionally took part in his performances.
In regard to some of the sittings, Mr. Hodgson's explanations are so full
as to show that all was performed by clever trick, but in others there is no
explanation given, except a general reference to the "methods" used in
other cases. I have neither time nor inclination to go into these cases in
detail, nor would there be any use in doing so. The important question is,
whether the methods which Mr. Davey used in his trick- performances are
such as will serve to explain most, or all, of the slate-writing of professional
mediums. I shall, therefore, accept Mr. Hodgson's challenge (in Froceedings,
Vol. lY., Part XL, p. 404) to point out exactly where the difference lies
between Mr. Davey's performances and those of mediums.
I have not myself had so much experience of slate-writing as many other
Spiritualists, nor have I received such marvellous and demonstrative tests as
have occurred to others. But I have witnessed successful .slate-writing with
four dilferent mediums ; and their proceedings, in the three best cases,
aiforded none of the opportunities for trickery on which Mr. Davey appears
to have mainly relied. I will now point out some of the conditions and
arrangements on which Mr. Davey's performances depended, and which were
not present on the occasion of either of my sittings.
3i Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mar., mi.
1. Mr. Davey on several occasions asked his visitors to bring three slates
with them, wliich afForded him the opportunity of writing on one of them,
and substituting this for one of the others after they had been cleaned for
the exxjeriment.
On no occasion were any slates asked for previous to my sitthigs, but a
single slate was once taken, and writing obtained on it without its leaving
my sight or that of my brother.
2. During the greater number of Mr. Davey's sittings ho left the room,
either before or in the midst of the performance, often more than once,
giving him the opportunity required for some of his best tricks.
At none of my sittings did the medium leave the room
.
3. Many of Mr. Davey's tricks depended on tlie slate being lield nndcr
the table.
At none of my sittings, except the first (with Slade), were the slates ever
put under the table.
4. Mr. Davey had a duster and blotting-paper on his table, used osten-
sibly for cleaning and drying tlie slates, but which were of great use to liim
in concealing and transposing tliem.
At none of my sittings were either of these articles on the table, a small
piece of sponge being the only thing used for cleaning the slates.
5. Long waiting, during the sittings, to relax the attention of the sitters,
was used by Mr. Davey.
At none of my sittings did I have to wait more than five or ten
minutes, in several much less. At my best sitting, with Fred Evans in San
Francisco, seven slates filled with writing or portraits, including letters
signed with the correct Christian name or initials of several long deceased
members of my family, together with six portraits produced on paper
touched by no one but myself, were obtained in a sitting of about half an
hour.
6. At some of Mr. Davey's sittings the visitors were in the room an hour
before the seance began, during which time some of their slates were taken
away and written on.
7. During some of the slate experiments, other tricks, with glasses, coins,
etc., were sometimes interpolated, at other times three or more sitters were
intermixed in one experiment, thus causing confusion and affording the
opjjortuirity for writing on or transposition.
Nothing of this kind occurred during either of my sittings.
8. Mr. Davey asked his sitters to change places, sometimes more than
once during tlie same sitting ; thus offering other opportunities for manipula-
tion of the slates.
No such change was made dming my sittings for slate-writing.
9. Apparently all Mr. Davey's visitors sat at the table, or if there were
any onlookers they were, like Mr. Hodgson, in the secret.
At one of my best sittings (with Keeler at Washington) a friend sat
about a yard back so as to see all that j^assed at the table where I and
the medium sat. On this occasion I examined two slates, tied them together,
placed my hand on them, on the table, the medium i^lacing his hand on
mine, and in a minute or two I opened the slates and found several lines
Mar , 1803.] Joarnat of Society for Psychical Mesecirch.
of writing inside. Nothing else whatever hajDpened, and any substitution
was simply impossible.
At the sitting with Evans, I and my brother sat witli the medium at the
table, and two friends, who had had numerous sittings before, sat al)out three
yards ofF, so as to see all that passed, while leaving the seance wholly to us.
These conditions are, I subnat, the Juost unfavourable to any trickery by the
medium.
I have now pointed out nine distinct features which differentiate Mr.
Davey's performances from those of the slate-writing mediums I have
had tlie opportunity of observing. Tliese features, either singly or in
combination, constitute the essential conditions of most of Mr. Davey's
conjuring performances ; and they correspond so closely with those used
by all conjurers, and are so different from those adopted hy most mediums,
that the difference would have been at once noticed had those familiar with
the slate-^^'riting of a number of different mediums been allowed to witness
Mr. Davey's experiments.
There are a few points in connection with Mr. Davey's power of thought-
reading and willing, and perhaps of mediumship, which call for notice. In
Proceed ' nrjs, Part XI., p. 406, Mr. Davey tells us that he was affected a good
deal during his first experiments with "involuntary movements." Such
movements are almost universal in the earlier stages of mediumship. Many
of his sitters report that he was " violently agitated, " that electric shocks
seemed to pass through him ; that he exhibited great nervous strain with
beads of perspiration. These are usual phenomena with some mediums, but
Mr. Davey does not tell us whether or no they were all simulated by him.
At p. 412 of same Proceedings, Mr. Davey describes how he asked a gen-
tlejnan to tldnh of a number, apparently with no limitation as to number of
digits. He then writes on a slate what he tliinUs is the number, and it proves
to be correct, namely, 98. He adds that he has had "several somewhat
similar experiences." This faculty, with the corresponding one of impress-
ing his thoughts on others, he evidently calculates on ; for Mr. Hodgson tells
us {Proceedings, Part XXII., p. 275) that he draws a figure or number that
he tltinls the sitter is most likely to choose. Also, in his book experiments,
he calculates on forcing a sitter to choose the book he requires. The record
of his sittings shows that he tried this experiment with ten different sitters ;
with four it failed or was inconclusive, but with the other six it succeeded
more or less completely. Kow it is certain that with sitters whose choice
was uninfluenced, not more than, if so many as, one in ten would choose the
one book, out of a hundred or more, placed conspicuously in order to be
chosen. Most people would avoid such a book. Not only the book has to
be forced, but the line or page, chosen by chance and sometimes neither
spoken nor written down, has to be accounted for. In several cases the
words found on the slate were correct for either line or jjage, and sometimes
for both, as in Sitting VII., of whicli no explanation is given. Then we
have Mr. Dodds' case, where he chooses Taine on Intelligence, because he
had been reading another work of Taine's that morning, and only thought
of a page and line ;
yet words were written from that line of another page
of the book. Again, in Sitting XVI., Miss Symonds has three book experi-
36 Jouriial of Society for Psychical Research. [Mar., 1893.
ments, choosing a different book each time, she says "at random." Yet
passages or words from two of these books were written, in one case from
the page and line chosen ; and in the third case it was written that theie
was no such page, which was correct. Of these three exjjeriments, also, no
explanation or suggestion of any kind is offered.
In what is called the " Sitting for Materialisation," a confederate entered
the room, and was enabled to do so by the complete darkness. I liave wit-
nessed numerous far better materialisation-phenomena in private houses,
under circumstances which rendered the presence of a confederate impossible
and on none of these occasions was there darkness, but always light enough
to allow all the persons in the room to be seen. The accounts of the sitters
with Mr. Davey as to the locking and sealing of the door were so grossly
inaccurate that I was led to suppose the phenomena were genuine.
I think I have now shown that there are very great differences between
Mr. Davey's jjerformances and those of mediums. This would have been of
little importance had not his seances been given undue prominence by
publication in tlie Society's Proceedings, and been thenceforth appealed to as
proving that the slate- writing of mediums was also trickery. Mr. Davey's
repeated refusal to exhibit his performances to those Si^iritualists who had
had a large experience of slate-writing in the presence of mediums, should,
in my opinion, have been sufficient to exclude his jjaper from the pages of a
scientific journal, since he thereby proved that to elicit the truth in tlie
matter was not so mucli his object as to keep up his reputation as an
exposer of the tricks of mediums. The comparatice experiments, which
could alone have given any scientific value to his performances, being absent,
nothing remains to interest Spiritualists beyond clever conjuring inter-
mingled with more or less of psychical or mediumistic power.
I venture to liope that other Spii'ltualists may now make known their
experiences of slate-writing phenomena, under conditions very different
from those present during Mr. Davey's jjerformances, and such as to exlude
the agencies he mainly employed. Alfred R. Wallace.
REPLY TO MR. ALFRED UUSSEL WALLACE.
(To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir, —I must confess my surjirise —after the various articles relating more
or less to slate-writing which have appeared in our Proceedings and Journal,
beginning with Mrs. Sidgwick's paper read on May 3rd, 1886, and published
in Part X. of our Proceedings {Yol. IV., p. 45) and ending with my article in
Part XXII., —to find Mr. Wallace still affirming that "the important question
is, whether the methods which Mr. Davey used in his trick-performances
are such as will serve to explain most, or all, of the slate-writing of pro-
fessional mediums." It is difficult to conceive a greater misapprehension of
the point at issue. The chief object of the investigation with Mr. Davey
was to estimate the true worth of testimony to " psychographic " and
similar performances, —"to ascertain by definite experiment, what sort of
repjrts honest and intelligent persons will make of conjuring performances
Mar., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 37
carried out in private, without any advantage of conditions, and directed to
obtaining results as closely as possible resembling those on which
Spiritualists rely." (Froceedings, Vol. IV., Part XI., p. 380.) In the
Introduction to Mr. Davey's Experimental Investigation I tried to show in
detail how far other records of psychographic jihenomena "might be
misdescriptions, and what were the chief causes of the misdescriptions." It
was also pointed out clearly, in describing tlie object of the notes attached
to the reports of sittings, that
"to explain the tricks would in itself be of little advantage to the
investigator of the '
physical phenomena '
of mediums, since many
methods of producing '
psychography '
may exist besides those
which Mr. Davey has employed ; and were all of those in present
use to be made public projDerty, others would doubtless be
invented, and accidental opjoortunities for producing successful
illusions would still arise ";
—
that it would be a great mistake
'
' to sujipose that explanations of the methods in use would convince
those who have te.stified from personal experience to the genuine-
ness of the '
psychography '
of Eglinton, Slade, etc. , that such
methods were used for the production of the phenomena which
they witnessed. They will scarcely be likely to remember the
occurrence of events which they jjerhaps never observed at all,
or observed only partially and erroneously ;
which, whether
correctly or incorrectly observed, they have afterwards con-
tinually misdescribed or completely forgotten ; and which, in
many cases, would be distinctly excluded by the acceptance of
their testimony as it stands" ;
—
and that the object of the notes was
"to show to investigators the kind and degree of mistakes which
may be made by educated and intelligent witnesses in recording
their impression of a performance tlie main lines of which are
planned with the deliberate intention of deceiving them, but few,
if any, of the details of which can V)e described as absolutely
fixed."
After such explicit declarations as the above, repeated and emphasised
in a variety of ways both in the Journal and in the Proceedings by Mrs.
Sidgwick and myself, during the discussions on the subject in 1886-7, and
reiterated in my article in Part XXII., where I have again drawn special
attention throughout to the fact that the important point to notice is not
how the trick was done, but what kinds of errors appear in the report of
the witness, —after all this, I say, I am astonished to find Mr. Wallace still
completely missing the point of the whole investigation. The obviously
important question for him to ask is : What hiiuh of mistakes may I expect
to find in my onyn reports of " psychographic " phenomena? and not the
question which he practically does ask, viz., Assuming my reports to be
correct, how can Mr. Davey's methods explain the slate -loriting n^hich I
witnessed ? This last question is of no importance whatever. The investi-
gation with Mr. Davey establishes that the assumption of the correctness of
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mae., 1893.
records of the kind under consideration is an absurd assumption. If we
could get "behind the scenes" in all of Mr. Wallace's experiences, we
might find that nearly every differential circumstance which he enumerates
was present at one or other of his sittings. ^ In spite of Mr. Wallace's belief
to the contrary, it is possible that the medium may have left the room, the
slates may have been put under the table, there may have been a duster
and a blotting paper, there may have been a long waiting, he may have
been in the room an hour before the sitting began, other experiments
may have been interpolated, and the sitters may have been asked to
change places. There are misdescriptions of all these points in the
reports of the sittings with Mr. Davey, and I may add here that mis-
descrijitions of a similar character were demonstrated to occur in the
records of sittings with Eglinton (vide Journal, Oct. -Dec. 1886). If
then, in the light of the reports of Mr. Davey's performances, supple-
mented by the explanations given of tlie misdescriptions in those reports,
we ask the really important question what kinds of mistakes we should
expect to find in Mr. Wallace's and other similar reports of " p.sycho-
graphic " jjhenomena, we have to reply that although as the events are
described trickery is not a sufficient explanation of the writing, it is a
sufficient explanation of the writing when we correct the record as we are
entitled to do ; when allowance is made for the same kind and amount of
misdescription as we have proved to occur in tlie accounts of Mr. Davey's
1 Mr. Wallace's No. 1 is curious. One might almost suppose that he regards it as a
special glory to have, very nearly, succeeded in never trying any slates but the medium's.
He apparently wishes to emphasise the circumstance that Mr. Davey had a great
advantage when he got his sitters to bring three slates, and of course it is easier to
play tricks with three slates than with two or one. On the other hand it is surely
more satisfactory to get writing on one's own slates than on those of the medium, the
latter being so much more easily prepared beforehand, as were probably the ^' sfi'cn
slates filled with writing or portraits " which Mr. Wallace got from Fred Evans. The
only detailed (!) account by Mr. Wallace of a psychographic performance which I can
remember appearing in our publications was quoted by Mr. Massey in Proceedings,
Part X. (Vol. IV., p. 84.) The medium was Monck (a detected trickster), and
even in Mr. Wallace's account it appears that four slates were on the table. It would
be interesting to know at how many of Mr. Wallace's sittings he believed that there
were fewer than three .slates, and by what kind of search he believes liimself to have
ascertained this.
Mr. Wallace thinks tliat it would be liarder ior the medium to trick when some of
the persons present are sitting away from the taljle instead of being at the table.
This depends largely on the trick, on the exact positions of the persons, and various
other circumstances. "A yard back " would usually be a much worse position than at
the table, especially if the actual sitter came between the onlooker and the medium.
In nearly all slate-writing tricks, I think, for purposes of detection, I would rather be
as near to the " medium " as possible. At a sitting with a Mrs. Gillett, wliere I sat
about " three yards off," while a friend sat at the table for a sitting, I saw practically
nothing from my position, whereas when I was sitting at the table myself I saw all
her chief trick movements. (I gave an account of these in the Rcligio-Philo-
sophical Journal, February 13th, 1892.) The other points of the nine which, Mr.
Wallace enumerates I have quite sufficiently dealt with above. Most of them are
fallacious from other points of view, as will doubtless readily be seen by any reader of
the reports who is at all familiar with the performances of professional mediums.
Mar., 180.3.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 39
performances, the " inediumistic phenomena " in dispute are perfectly explic-
able by conjuring.
Besides Mr. Wallace's complete general misconception of the point at
issue, I find a special misconception in his acceptance now of the challenge
in my article more than four years ago tliat the " experienced Spiritualist"
should point out exactly where the difference lies between Mr. Davey's
performances and mediumistic phenomena. Surely the meaning of this
challenge was obvious ? Wlioever accepted it was to compare the reports of
Mr. Davey's performances with the reports of mediumistic phenomena, and
give satisfactory reasons for holding that tlie one set of phenomena were
explicable by conjuring and the other set not ;
or, as Mrs. Sidgwick put the
question (Jon.nMl for July, 1887, p. 138): if he was able to distinguish
conjuring performances from mediumistic ones, he had "an opportunity of
showing it by explaining exactly how, if the accounts of Mr. Davey's
performances and Mr. Eglinton's [or Monck's, or Slade's, or Keeler's, or
Evans'] were presented to him for the first time mixed up and so that he did
not know which was which, he would distinguish the genuine from the
spurious." Mr. Wallace and other believers in the genuineness of
psychography had four years in which to accept this challenge. So far as I
am aware, no attempt was ever made to meet it. On the contrary, as
appears from Mr. Wallace's letter printed in the Journal in March, 1891, he
and others substantially confessed that they were unable to make the
distinction demanded, and that they believed Mr. Davey to be a medium.
Even now, indeed, Mr. Wallace thinks it probable that Mr. Davey
possessed "mediumistic power," a, term which he distinguishes from
"thought-reading and thought-impressing," and by which I suppose he
must mean the power of obtaining so-called "independent writing." I
must confess that if what I have already said in the Proceedings and the further
comments which I wish to make here on other but related points are not
sufficient to convince Mr. Wallace that Mr. Davey was not a " medium," it
seems to me unprofitable to say any more on the subject. As the matter
stands, Mr. Wallace still makes no distinction between Mr. Davey's
performances and the disputed mediumistic phenomena. To make this
distinction, he must give satisfactory reasons for accepting the testimony to
mediumistic phenomena as valid, while rejecting the testimony to Mr.
Davey's phenomena as invalid. He gives no such reasons, and makes no
attempt whatever to compare the testimonies in the two classes of
performances alleged by him to be different. Why, for example, should I
reject the statement of Mrs. Y. —" I am perfectly confident that my hand
was not removed from the slates for one single instant, and that I never lost
sight of them for a moment "—as positively erroneous, and accept Mr.
Wallace's statement that " any substitution was simply impossible " as
absolutely reliable ? Mr. Wallace wants to get "behind the scenes " for one
set of records and sit in the gallery for the other !
And let me here remind the reader that a similar conclusion as to
the unreliability of the testimony to "slate-writing" performances might
have been obtained by an investigation of the results of conjuring
performances of another kind altogetlier. We should have reached the
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mak., is93.
same general conclusions concerning the untrustworfchiness of testimony
wherever the possibility of a conjurer's operations had to be allowed for,
though the criterion would then have been less easy of ajjplication than it is
now, owing to the close resemblance in all fundamental respects which
the reports of Mr. Davey's performances bear to the accoimts of those of
professional mediums.
Mr. Wallace complains of Mr. Davey's " refusal to exhibit his perform-
ances to those Spiritualists who had had a large experience of slate-writing
in the presence of mediums." Well, had the contemplated series of
experiments to which I referred in Proceedings^ Part XXII., p. 254, been
carried out, I have no doubt that some " experienced Sjoiritualists " would
be now affirming more strongly than ever tliat Mr. Davey was a wonderful
medium, though they probably would not have known him under the
name of Mr. Davey. For differences between reports of sittings with
a person known beforehand to be a professed conjurer, and reports of
sittings with a person regarded as a medium, see the Jonmal for October,
1886, pp. 410, 411 ; and as regards the supposition which I take to be
implied in Mr. Wallace's remarks, that " experienced Spiritualists " would
have been less easily deceived than were Mr. Davey's sitters, there are good
reasons for thinking that "the presumption is strongly the other way."
(Part XL, p. 404.)
So much, then, for the main point at issue, which is not whether
the methods used by Mr. Davey will serve to explain most or all of the
slate-writing of professional mediums, but whether—to vary the mode of
presenting the point—when the reports of such slate-writing are duly corrected
for their possible misdescriptions, the phenomena are explicable by con-
juring.
There are now one or two subsidiary points which it may be worth while
to clear up, if possible, concerning Mr. Wallace's opinion that Mr. Davey
possessed some supernormal faculty.
A. Mr. Wallace states that it seems clear to him that Mr. Davey
"possessed the faculty of thought-reading and thought-impressing in a high
degree." Now, at the time of my investigation with Mr. Davey I considered
the instances which Mr. Davey adduced in support of his idea that he had
more success in guessing numbers, etc., than could be attributed to mere
chance, and I concluded that he much over-estimated his successes. My
knowledge of tlie circumstances is of course less now than then when it
included a knowledge of sittings with Mr. Davey, which were never reported
at all, but it may be worth while to consider the cases that occur in the
detailed accounts given in the Proceediiujs and to ask ourselves whether Mr.
Wallace's assertion can be justified.
Let us first look at the book-experiments. Mr. Wallace says: "He
calculates on forcing a sitter to choose the book he requires. The record of
his sittings shows that he tried this experiment with ten different sitters ;
with four it failed or was inconclusive, but with the other six it succeeded
more or less completely." Mr, Wallace's analysis of the experiments is not
Mar., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
quite correct,! but it would be superfluous to enter into a detailed calculation
of chances where the question is one of forcing, of the principle of which,
as used in various forms by conjurers, Mr. Wallace appears to be entn-ely
ignorant. In Part XXII., pp. 268-270, I have given a detailed description
of the two instances in which Mr. Davey arranged a " force " among my
own books ; and it is amazing to find Mr. Wallace suggesting that thought-
transference is involved in the success achieved in "forcing " a book under
the circumstances of Mr. Davey's sittings, where probably not one of the
•sitters knew any more about " forcing " than Mr. Wallace does. I have
frequently forced a card "several times running" on the same person, in
the same way. Doubtless Mr. Wallace would have regarded this as evidence
of thought-transference. He unconsciously but persistently continues to
ignore a fundamental part of the conjuring performance. I have already
indicated in the case of Miss Y. (Part XXII., p. 2G9) how she was led into
choosing the required book partly from her very desire to take a book at
random, not to inspect titles and make a reflective choice. I have shown
how little dependence can be placed on the after-impression of the witness
that the book was chosen strictly at random, pointing out clearly, as I
thought, how it was forced upon her by the conjurer ;
yet Mr. Wallace
quotes Miss Symons as using the phrase " at random " (as she does for only
1 The ten sitters to whom Mr. Wallace refers are apparently the following, R
signifying auccesB and W faihn-e :
—
1. Sitting II. Miss Y R
2. ,, IV. Mr. Padahah W
3. „ V. Mr. Block W
4. ,, VI. Mr. Ten Bruggenkate R
5. „ VII. Mr. Manville W
G. ,, VII. Mr. Pinnock R
7. „ VIII. Mr. Dudds R
8. „ IX. Mr. A. B. T W
9. „ XV. Mrs. Sidgwick R?
10. „ XVI. Miss Symons R
Now, in the first place it should be noticed that prior to the successes with Miss Y.
there were three failures, Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Y. having each taken a book, not
the one required. Mrs. Sidgwick, as she explains in ProceC'liiigs, Pai-t XXII., p. 272,
failed several times to take the right book, and took the right one finally because she
perceived that Mr. Davey wanted that one. This, therefore, counts as a failure. On
the other hand, Miss Symons chose three different books, two of which can be counted
as right. (I omit the third book, since this was a Journal or Proceidings S.P.R.
and the message "no such page" was apparently written after its choice. It was
doubtless known to Mr. Davey that the current number of the Journal or Proceedings
contained no page under 10, and in any odd part of the Journal or Proceedings the
chances are of course that tlie answer "no such page " would be correct. ) This analysis
gives fourteen trials and shows eight failures and six successes. Probably we should
have to diminish e\'en this percentage of success if we knew in every detail exactly
what occurred at the sittings, e.g., Miss Symons may have chosen one or two other
books before she took the right one, and Mr. Davey may have objected to these on the
grounds that he had read them, etc. Here, again, Mr. Wallace's estimate is open to
error because of his assumption that the reports are accurate. And I refer him
especially to the Journal for October, 1880, pp. 419-421, where I have pointed out
just such an omission from the recox'd of a sitting with Eglinton as I here suggest in
Miss Symons' account of her choice of a book. UnreliabiUty of testimony again.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Map., 1893.
one of the three book experiments) ; he apparently supposes that she is
giving an accurate account of what actually occurred, and cannot understand
that the book may have been forced upon her in much the same way as the
book was forced upon Miss Y. Mr. Wallace's notion of the difficulty of
forcing is as naive as his judgments about conjuring performances generally.
Further, he seems to think tliat there is only one method of forcing a book,
namely, that particular method which I described in detail. There are
modifications of " conspicuous forcing " and modifications of " inconspicuous
forcing." For examj^le, the conjurer moves with the sitter towards the
shelves: "Take any book at random. Don't take a book that anybody
would take "—toucliing a very conspicuous book, with a slight wave of the
hand further to the right, which helps to lead the eye of the sitter to an
insignificant looking book in an obscure position—just the book required.
I repeat that it is manifestly Mr. Wallace's ignorance of conjuring that
allows him to suppose tliat Mr. Davey's success in forcing the right book was
any indication of thought-transference. The only case in my opinion that
deserves any consideration from this point of view is that of Mr. Dodds.
It was a "curious coincidence" that Mr. Davey should have placed, in a
forcing position, a book by the same author as one which Mr. Dodds had
been so recently reading. But we do not know what other books Mr. Dodds
had been reading that day, and for every additional book that he had been
reading, the oddity of the coincidence is diminished. Conscious reasoning,
I believe, so far as Mr. Davey was aiimre, led him to choose the book as a
likely one for Mr. Dodds to take if it should catch his eye. The "force"
perhaps consisted of a slight displacement of the book, or the book may
have been somewhat larger than those in its neighbourhood. Now it was
the "force " doubtless which originally drew the attention of Mr. Dodds to
this book. Wliether lie would have finally chosen it had he not been so
recently reading another book by the same author we cannot tell. But he
was consciously influenced to choose it by his remembrance of the aforesaid
reading. Be it observed, therefore, that the remarkable thing is not that
Mr. Dodds chose tliat book, but that Mr. Daoeij chose it, and from this
point of view the reader will see that the case is less remarkable than Mr.
Wallace seems to think. If the incident was telejjathic, Mr. Dodds was
probably the unconscious agent earlier in the day, and Mr. Davey the
psrcipient, and at the time of the supposed tliouglit-transference they had
never met. It is, if telepathic, an unusual type of case, and can hardly be
claimed as a prcjof of thought-transference in Mr. Davey's experience unless
we find further evidence distinctly pointing in this direction. Let us then
turn to Mr. Davey's selections of numbers and figures. The following table
represents all the cases in the detailed reports of experiments in the
drawing of figures.
Sittinif. Chosen hii Sitter. Drawn hy Mr. Davey.
j' 1. Octagon (and sc[uare 1) Two indistinct lines.
I- ; 2. Octagon (and square 1) Two indistinct lines.
( 3. Square. Two lines perhaps intended to be
at right angles to each other,
but not at right angles and not
touching.
Mar., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
Sitting. Chosen ly Sitter. Drawn bu Mr. Bavey.
f 4. Star. No result witnessed.
I 5. Cross. Attempt at a cross.
VII. 6. Triangle. No result witnessed.
This is scarcely a series to prove thought-transference even if we include
(5) ; but as a matter of fact (5) should not be included, since Mr. Davey
was aware that a cross had been chosen before he placed the chalks under
the tumbler. My remembrance about this incident is that when Mr. Davey
assured me {vide Part XI., Vol. IV., p. 489) that he intended to draw a cross,
I conjectured that he had inferred what the figure was from possibly hearing
Miss Y. draw it, but that he explained that he had not heard the sound of
the drawing, but had heard Miss Y.'s whispered reply ''cross" to her
mother's whispered query as to the figure chosen. This, again, is another
instance of Mr. Wallace's mistake in assuming that the reports are accurate.
The following table represents all the cases in the detailed reports of
experiments with simple numbers, —choice being limited to muler 10.
Sitting. Chosen by Sitter. Writtea by Mr. Davey.
(5. 6.
III. -j 5 and 7. No answer.
( 5 and 7. 7.
XVI. 4. 4.
What little indication of thought-transference there may seem to some
persons to be in this series, vanishes when they know of the old boy's
trick with numbers : viz., ask a person to think of a number under 10,
and to name it. If it is either 4 or 7 you exhibit to him a piece of paper
upon which you have previously written a number which is 4 from one
point of view but turned the other way is 7. Here I must confess that
I am somewhat surprised at the implication which Mr. Wallace reads in my
words. Mr. Wallace says that Mr. Davey evidently calculated on the faculty
(of thought-transference) "for Mr. Hodgson tells us that he draws a figure
or number that he thinhs the sitter is most likely to choose." I most
assuredly was not thinking of thought-transference when I wrote :
—
" While he is juaking a little heap of the chalks on the middle of the
slate, before placing the tumbler in position, he also draws a figure
(or a number, as the case may be) that he thinks the sitter is
most likely to choose."
I was thinking of Mr. Davey's estimate of the sitter, the conversation, the
surroundings, etc. Thus, Mr. Davey might conclude that one sitter would
probably choose a very simple figure, such as a square or a triangle, and
that another sitter would probably avoid choosing a very simple figure.
Usually, indeed, Mr. Davey did not ask the sitter to think of a figure till
after the chalks and tumbler had been placed in position and the figure had
been drawn.
Journal of Societi/ for Psychical Research. [Mar., 1893.
The following table represents all the cases, in the detailed reports, of
experiments with lines and pages.
Sittiny. Chosen by Sitter. Written Itj Mr. Davey.
I^Page 3, lines 1, 8, 9.
fPage 8, line 8. |
J^^S^ 1^''''
I'
! Page 8, line 4.
J
^''^S^^ }•
\ Paie 7, line 9. < ^^S^ ^ \-
IPage 1, line 9. 1
J^g^ ^ }•
(The experiment was specially directed to- i
p o' v i
wards Mr. Y.'s numbers, viz., page 8, line 8.)
^'^ ^'
'
VI. Page 5, line 7. Page 8, line 4.
VII. Page 12, line 8. Page 12, line 8.
VIII. Page 28, line 8. Page 15, lines 8 (say to) 13.
XV Pao'e 9 line 4 / "^^^e 6, last line.
( Page 7, last line.
XVI. Page 2, Ihie 7. I Page 8, line 2. [down."
(Page 8, " a few lines further
/Page 8, line 1.
\Page 8, line 5.
XVI. Page 8, line 5.
Omitting the case of Sitting VII. —which I shall describe in detail pre-
sently, —and taking first the pfuje numbers, I find that in Sitting II. Mr.
Davey had written passages from pp. 3-9 inclusive. ^ This case, therefore,
may be dropjjed from our calculation. There remain five cases, in only one
of which was the page correct, and in two of these wrong cases there were,
so to say, two guesses.
Turning now to the line numbers, I find that in Sitting II. Mr. Davey
had written passages from lines 1, 8, and 9, thereby increasing threefold his
chance of getting one line right. In the remaining five cases, the line was
apparently completely wrong in three cases (in one of which, moreover,
there were two guesses, and in the other three guesses—apparently all
wrong) and partially right in two cases. I say partially riglit because in
Sitting VIII. the line 8 was chosen by the sitter, —and not only line 8 but
several succeeding lines had also been written by Mr. Davey, — while for Sit-
ting XVI. he had written words from line 1 as well as from line 5. ^ It must
be I'emembered, further, that the numbers selected by Mr. Davey were not
chosen strictly at random, and therefore that tlie question of number-habit
cannot be excluded from the calculation. Further still, there may have been
other lines quoted on the slate unknown U) the sitter, just as there were in
Sitting II. Taking, however, even the most favourable view possible of all
these groups of cases thus regarded as experiments in Thought-transference,
the reader may well be surprised that it "seems clear " to Mr. Wallace that
i
The title of the poem on page 3 of the book chosen [A Selection from the Poetry
of E. B. Broxoniwj. Hecoml Series.) is repeated as a headhne on pp. 4-7. The title
of the poem on p. 8 is repeated as a headline on p. 9.
- In this case, Mr. Davey had been informed by the sitter what page and line she
had chosen and in three other cases he had arranged with the sitters that they should
choose numbers under ten.
Mae., 1893.] Joiiviial of Society for Psychical Research. 45
Mr. Ddvey "possessed the faculty of thought-reading and thought-impress-
ing in a high degree." We shall rather be content at the most with Mr.
Davey's more sober judgment expressed in connection with the "98"
incident (Part XI., p. 413, footnote). "This may, of course, have been
merely an odd coincidence, but the fact that I have had several somewhat
similar experiences with other investigators led me to think that there might
be something of the nature of thought-reading in it."
In connection with this I sliould quote another statement made by
Mr. Davey (Part XI., p. 486)
"In some of my earlier experiments I believed that there were
indications of thought-transference between jnyself and my
sitters. My later sittings have oflered no sujjport to this view,
but, owing partly to my inexperience, I laboured sometimes
under considerable nervous excitement in my earlier sittings,
and I have not felt this latterly. This may have conduced to
what occasionally seemed to me to be a certain amount of com-
munity of thought between my sitters and myself, and I hope at
some time to make a special series of experiments for the purpose
of ascertaining whether my conjecture is well-founded or nut."
To return to the incident in Sitting VII., which Mr. Wallace specially
instances, I give my not very clear remembrance of the case for what it is
worth. It is at any rate one of the explanations obvious to any person at
all familiar with "forcing" tricks. Page 12 and line 8 were chosen—by
the sitters I No ; —by Mr. Davey. First look at the two accounts :
—
Mr. Manville writes (p. 456) :
—
" I took a pinch of crayons from a box, Mr. Pinnock doing the same.
On counting, mine came to 6, Mr. Pinnock 's came to 11, Mr.
Venner's came to -S. Mr. P. and I divided Mr. V. \s, makinsr
mine 8 and Mr. P.'s 12, so we decided that it should be p. 12,
line 8."
Mr. Venner writes (p. 452) :
—
" The medium requested eacli of us to take a small handful of chalks
out of the box on the table. Mr. P. took 11, Mr. M. six, and I
three. The meditim divided the three chalks I had selected
between the other two. We had previously agreed that Mr. P.'s
number should represent a page, and Mr. M.'s number a line."
Now Mr. Davey had taken care that the box should contain just 20 (12-1-8)
fragments of chalk. He then, let us suppose, begins by remarking that in
choosing numbers for page and line it is well to avoid any possibility of
thought-transference. The numbers should be taken entirely at random.
"Now Mr. P., suppose you take a pinch of these crayons, the number to
represent the page ; take a good pinch, not too many, of course, —leave
some for the line ; now Mr. M. ;
—now Mr. V., suppose you take the rest.
. . . . 11, 6, and 3. Well, as Mr. V. knows me, Mr. M. had better
choose the line and we'll divide Mr. V.'s chalks, 2 to Mr. M. because he has
46 Joiirncd of Society for Psychical Research. [Mak., is'j3.
tlie smaller number, and 1 to Mr. P. So we get —how many ? 12 for the
page and 8 for the line, —chosen m a purely haphazard way." In this
connection I refer the reader to my discussion of the records of a sitting
with Eglinton, printed in the Journal for October, 1886, pp. 418-421, and to
the remarks by Mr. Lewis (" Professor Hoffmann") in the Journal for
August, 1886, p. 370 :
" The expedient of taking a number of bibs of pencil,
wax lights, or tlie like, though apparently excluding the possibility of
prearrangement, is caj^ialjle of a good deal of '
management ' in skilful
hands."
B. Another point in Mr. Wallace's letter that calls for some comment is
the statement referring to the "involuntary movements" by which Mr.
Davey found himself affected during his first experiments in the investiga-
tion of Spiritualism. Mr. Wallace really almost seems to be arguing that
because certain mediumistic plienomena are attended with '
' involuntary
movements," therefore "involuntary movements", are apro of of medium-
ship. Mr. Davey says, concerning these " involuntary movements " that he
afterwards had '
' little doubt they were caused simply by nervous
excitement." He tells us more than this, in a passage which seems to have
escaped the notice of Mr. Wallace. He says (Part XL, p. 407, the next
page to that from which Mr. Wallace quotes) :
" During seances held jjrivately, T continued to be frequently seized
by spasmodic movements when I believed '
uncanny ' manifesta-
tions were about to take jjlace. As a conjurer, I have been siiice
amused sometimes at similar convulsions in others during my
conjuring performances, when the sitters ha\'e sujjposed that the
writing was being produced by supernatural means ;
my own
shuddering:; durinij these performances hehuj, of course, imrt of the
trich."
I have now dealt with all tlie cases to whicli Mr. Wallace has made any
specific reference in the preceding letter. In my article in Proceedings,
Part XXII., I had already explained in detail all the cases which Mr.
Wallace mentioned specifically in his letter printed in the Journal for
March, 1891, as being presumably the most difficult of explanation. I am
not aware of any other experiments recorded in the detailed reports, which
are not so similar to those already explained that any intelligent reader can
easily see for himself how they were performed. Whatever difficulty Mr.
Wallace finds in understanding Mr. Davey's performances doubtless arises
from the strange inability which he has shown to appreciate the main object
of our investigations with Mr. Davey. Pie still apparently assumes that the
statements of the witnesses are reliable instead of allowing for misdescrip-
tions like those which I have so frequently and so variously pointed out.
He goes on further to make, about his own experiences, certain statements
which the investigations with Mr. Davey jjrove to be unreliable. Mr.
Wallace says, —I repeat tlie quotation :
—" The important question is, whether
the methods which Mr. Davey used in his trick-performances are such as
will serve to explain most, or all, of the slate-writing of professional
mediums." On the contrary, I say again, this is not the important question.
Mill., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 47
As I have said in Part XXII. (p. 279) :—" The question of primary
importance concerns the value of human testimony under the circumstances
involved. Why do we not accept such testimony ? Because it is
demonstrably fallible in precisely those particular points where it must be
shown infallible before the phenomena can be accejjted as supernormal. " It
has been shown conclusively, for example, that—under the circumstances
involved, —intelligent and hand fide witnesses may affirm positively that a
particular slate never left their sight, whereas in truth it did leave their
sight, and ample opportunity was given for the conjurer to write upon it liy
ordinary means. Hence when Mr. Wallace states that in one of his
experiences writing was obtained upon a slate of his own "without its
leaving my sight or that of my brother," the statement has very little
evidential value.
Similarly, there is little evidential value in his statement : "I examined
two slates, tied them together, placed my hand upon them on the table,
the medium placing his hand on mine, and in a minute or two I opened
the slates and found several lines of writing inside. Nothing else whatever
happened, and any substitution was simply impossible." Various instances
of just this type of statement occur in the reports of Mr. Davey's
sittings, and I have discussed several of them in Part XXII. (See pp. 261,271,
281.)
We now know that under the circumstances involved, human testimony
is so fallible as to be untrustworthy for the demonstration required, and
that such statements as that of Mr. Wallace just quoted must be regarded
as probably misdescriptions, and as practically worthless for proving any
sui^ernormal phenomena.
Once more and finally, the important question is not one of how
particular tricks are done —or whether Mr. Davey's tricks in whole or in part
are the same as those of alleged mediums, —the important question concerns
the value of testimony where, in addition to the ordinary sources of error,
"the possibility of an exceptionally disturbing influence has to be allowed
for—to wit, the influence of a person skilled in particular forms of deception,
whose chief object is to prevent the witnesses from perceiving many of the
actual occurrences, and to persuade them, by ingenious illusions, to an
erroneous belief concerning others." {Juvrnal for Jan., 1887, p. 5.) The
object of the investigation with Mr. Davey, as explicitly and repeatedly pointed
out in our Jofirnal and our Proccedimjs, was to obtain some criterion as to the
value of testimony under such circumstances . The result of the investiga-
tion shows that the sort of testimony hitherto 6fi"ered in favour of the
genuineness of so-called " psychography " is worthless. The testimony is
vitiated by the non-exclusion of possibilities of mal-observation and lapse
of memory. And no testimony can be regarded as having any claim to
serious consideration until such possibilities are excluded.
Jamtcmj 2Uh, 1893. Richard Hodgson.
4)8 Journal of Society for Psychical Uesearch. [Mar., 1893.
MEETINGS OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH OF THE S.RR.
MEETING IN BOSTON.
A General Meeting was held in the Lecture-room of the Boston
Society of Natural History on Tuesday, December 20th, at 8 p.m.
About 100 persons present ; Professor William Watson in the chair.
The Secretary read the records of the previous meeting, which
were approved.
The Secretary then read a paper on " Crystal-Vision and the
Subliminal Consciousness," consisting chiefly of extracts from a paper
by Mr. Frederic W. H. Myers.
The meeting then adjourned.
MEETING IN NEW YORK.
A meetinsr of the New York Section of the American Branch was
held in the rooms of Columbia College on Wednesday, December
21st, at 8 p.m. About 130 persons present ; Professor J. H. Hyslop in
the chair.
The Secretary of the Section read the records of the previous
meeting, which were approved.
The Secretary of the Branch then read the paper given in Boston
on the evening previous, and replied to questions. By permission
of the chair, some remarks were also made by a visitor.
The meeting then adjourned.
Richard Hodgson,
Sccrctury of the American Branch of the S P.R.
EDMUND GURNEY
Account for 1892, u
RECEIVED.
£ s. d.
Balance from 1891 ... 13 12 1
Dividend, Industrial and
General Trust 0 (5 10
By sale of £20 Stock, In-
dustrial and Gen. Trust 19 0 0
Interest on South Ameri-
can Securities ... ... (i 18 0
£39 16 11
LIBRARY FUND.
) to Decemher 31d.
PAID.
£ s. d.
By purchase of £33 14s.
5d. Consolidated Stock
2| per cent 32 15 0
Transfer Commission ... 0 5 0
£33 0 0
Balance carried forward 6 16 II
39 16 11
Fchnumj 4tlh, 1893.
Examined : Correct,
H. AiriHVK Smith, Hon. l'reat>urer, S.P.R.
No. XCIX.—Vol. VI. April, 1893.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates
Meeting of tlie Council
General Meeting
Cases received by tire Literary Committee
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Caillaed, Vincent, Constantinople.
Donnelly, Mrs., Kendall-street, Cowra, New South Wales.
Hughes, Mrs., Gwynnondale, Llanarthney, R.S.O., Carmarthenshire.
Jeffreys, Mrs., Glandyfi Castle, Glandovey, R.S.O., North Wales.
ASSOCIATES.
Bannerman, Colonel P. W., 8, Somers-place, Hyde Park, London, AV.
Clark, W. W., Denehurst, Dorking.
Crewdson, Miss Gwendolen, St. Regains, St. Andrews, Fife, N.B.
Pagan, Mrs. L. M., 56, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Pricker, John C, 6, Colville-terrace, Bayswater, London, W.
Garth, Henry, M.B., CM. (Edin.), Miller Hospital, Greenwich, S.E.
Gray, Edward W., Surgeon-Captain, The Citadel, Cairo, Egypt.
Hopps, John Page, Oak Tree House, South Norwood Hill, London, S.E.
Howard, The Lady Mabel, Greystoke Castle, Penrith.
Lord, Mrs. Robert, Newstead, Albert-road, Bolton, Lancashire.
Mackay, George D., Inveralmond, Cramond, Midlothian, N.B.
McLaughlin, E. N., Trinity Villa, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
Pitt-Taylor, F. S., The Lawn, Rock Ferry, Cheshire.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Shotley Bridge, Co. Durham.
Richardson, Hubert, Biddick Hall, Tyne Docks, South Shields.
Skeffington, Joseph B., M.A., LL.B.,Downpatrick, Co. Down, Ireland.
SuMMERSON, Samuel J., Haughton-le-Skerne, Darlington.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBERS.
Brimmer, Mrs. Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass., U.S,A,
Farmer, Moses G., Eliot, Maine, U.S.A,
PAGE
. 49
. 50
. 51
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Apeil, 1893.
Shaw, Mrs. G. H., 23, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass., U S. A.
Wyatt, M. H., Sparkill, Rockland County, N.Y., U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Allen, Prof. J., Univ. of City of N.Y., Washington-sq., NewYork City.
Ames, Mrs. H. A., 5, Richter-terrace, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
Bryan, W., c/'o Messrs. Bottler Bros., Main-st., Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Carey, Harry, Newport, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Carpenter, Mrs. Franklin R., Rapid City, South Dakota, U.S.A.
Chick, Prank W., Madrid, Franklin Co., Maine, U.S.A.
Cobb, Mrs. Francis D., Barnstable, Mass., U.S.A.
Farmer, Miss Sarah J., Eliot, Maine, U.S.A.
FiSK, Rev. Richmond, D.D., 251, Lexington-st., East Boston, Mass.
Forbes, W. H., 181, Devonshire-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Gray, Miss Agnes W., 1, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Hartzell, F. S., 73, Navarre-street, Canton, Ohio, U.S.A.
Heyer, George W., 619, Main-street, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Holt, L. Emmett, M.D., 15, East 54th-street, New York City, U.S.A.
HoTCHKiss, Miss Jeannie E., Rathbone House, Elmira, NewYork,U.S.A.
Johnson, Thomas M., Osceola, St. Clair Co., Mo., U.S.A.
Joslyn, John R., 208, E. Water-street, Elmira, N.Y., U.S.A. -
King, J. Stebbins, M.D., Syndicate Block, Decatur, 111., U.S.A.
KuHN, Hamilton, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mallery, Mrs. Garrick, 1,323, N.-st., N.W. Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Moth, M. J., M.D., 3438, Indiana-avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Nevins, Miss Anna K., 20, Fifth-avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Ney, G. S., M.D., 27, Adams-avenue East, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Ranney, E. H ,
Kalamazoo, Michigan, U.S.A.
Richardson, M. T., Ridgewood, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Russell, David, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Savage, Philip H., 28, Holyobe House, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Schenck, Miss Ida Z., 114, East 19th-street, New York City, U.S.A.
Scott, Mrs. L., The Amidon, 83rd-street, and Boulevard, N.Y. City.
Smith, George R., M.D., Dover, New Hampshire, U.S.A.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Mass. Inst, of Technology, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Whipple, L. E., 328, Madison-avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Wilkins, Miss F. A., c/o G.A.Dewey, 146, Broadway,N.Y. City, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on March 10th. The Chair
Avas taken by W. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S, There were also present
April, 18!)3.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 51
Professor H. Sidgwick, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore and R. Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Four new Members and seventeen new Associates whose names
and addresses are given above were elected. The election of four new
Members and thirty-three new Associates of the American Branch was
recorded.
The Council record with regret the death of M. H. Taine, one of
the most distinguished of the Corresponding Members of the Society.
At their request the name of Mrs. R. N. Lucas was transferred
from the list of Associates to that of Members, and the name of Miss
Shove from the list of Members to that of Associates.
A vote of thanks was accorded to the donor for a present to the
Library.
The Finance Committee presented a report as to the Income and
Expenditure of the Society during the present year, which was received
and adopted.
It was agreed to accede to a request to present a set of the
Proceedings of the Society and a copy of Phantasms of the Living to
the Psychological Library being formed in connection with " The
World's Fair " at Chicago.
Various other matters having been disposed of, it was agreed to
meet at the Westminster Town Hall at 3 p. m. on Friday, the 21st of
April, previous to the General Meeting on that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 57th Genei^al Meeting of the Society was held on Friday,
March 10th, at the Westminster Town Hall, Mr. Pearsall Smith in
the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an address on " Motoi" Messages from the
Subliminal Self," the substance of which will appear in the next num-
ber of the Proceedings. He pointed out that besides the definite
sensory messages already dealt with, there were a great variety of mani-
festations of the subliminal consciousness in the form of movements,
either vague and unspecialised, or specialised as writing or speech. He
cited some of Dr. Gibotteau's experiments with his subject (or rather
agent) Berthe, as the only examples yet received of successful telepathic
action upon the percipient's sense of direction, or general motor cajDacity,
He went on to cite various automatically written messages, especially
of Miss A.'s, discussing the degree of verification which they had
received, and the canons of evidence which should help towards a clearer
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1893.
view as to the origin o£ retrocognitive messages in general,—whether
they should be attributed to the action of external intelligences, or to
the subliminal powers of the automatist's own spirit.
Mr. Podmore then read a paper on "Telepathic Dreams." He began
by pointing out that the evidence for telepathy afforded by dream-coinci-
dences is weaker than that derived from waking impressions, (1) because
of the greater frequency of dreams ; (2) because of the vague and
elusive character of the dream-impression ; (3) because dreams have no
landmarks either in time or space. The last two sources of error did
not seriously affect dreams which were mentioned or noted in writing-
beforehand. As regards the first point, it was important to observe
that coincident dreams presented very generally some exceptional
features, such as extreme vividness, realism, or coherence, or left behind
a painful impression, which persisted in the waking hours. Theoreti-
cally, dreams were of importance as presenting us with examples of
hallucinations in miniature, in which many of the characteristic
features of hallucination could be studied.
Mr. Podmore then proceeded to quote examples of the principal
types of veridical dreams, pointing out as he did so their chief
evidential features.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G. 233.
The following is a case of so-called " haunting "—inexplicable noises
l^eing constantly heard by the tenants of the house during an occu-
pancy of about 6 J- years, and unrecognised phantasms being seen three
times, on one occasion collectively, while some time earlier a figure,
which was said to have some resemblance to the late master of the
house, had been seen there by one of his old servants. A similar case
—that of the " Haunted House at Willington "—was printed in the
Journal, December, 1892, and though the present one is even more
remote, it has the same merit of having been fully and carefully
recorded at the time by exceptionally intelligent and trustworthy
witnesses.
For the loan of the pamphlet here reprinted, we are indebted to
the Marquis of Bute, whose comments on the narrative are appended.
* '
# * * *
Mary Ricketfcs was the youngest child of Swynfen .Jervis, Esq., and
Elizabeth Parker, his wife. She was born at Meaford, near Stone, in
Staifordshire, in 1737-8. From her early childhood she evinced a love for
reading, and an aptitude for mental improvement, which were developed by
the wise training of Nicholas Tindal, the learned continuer of Rapin's His-
tory of England.
Her veracity was proverbial in the family. Her favourite brother and
Ai'RiL, 1893.] Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. 53
companion was John Jervis, who for his distinguislaed naval services was
created Baron Jervis and Earl St. Vincent. Though his junior by three
years, she rapidly outstripijed him in book learning, and to lier sui^erior
acquirements may be traced tlie unwearied pains which John Jervis took to
make up for lost time, when, at the age of eighteen, he devoted his spare
hours to study, instead of sharing in the frivolous amusements of West
Indian life.
She married in 1757 William Henry Ricketts, of Canaan, in Jamaica, Esq.,
whose grandfather, William Ricketts, Esq., was a captain in Penn and
Venables' army at the conquest of Jamaica. Mrs. Ricketts was called upon
to accompany her husband in his visits to the West Indies, or to remain
alone in England. Tlie charge of her three infant children determined her to
accept the latter alternative in 1769.
*****
During the absence of Mr. Ricketts in Jamaica, his wife continued to
hdiabit the old Manor House of H , and it was there that the following
series of strange disturbances occurred, the effect of which was to render
her continued occupation of the house an impossibility.
Mrs. Ricketts was a woman (jf remarkable vigour, both physical and
mental. Her steadfast faith, and sense of the ever abiding presence of God,
carried her through many bitter trials, and preserved her intellectual powers
unimpaired to the advanced age of ninety-one, when she calmly resigned
her spirit into " the hands of the God who gave it."
Mks. Ricketts to the Rev. Mr. Newbolt.
H ,
TVednesdaii Morning, August, 1771.
My Dear Sir, —In compliance with my promise to you of yesterday, I
would not delay to inform you of the operations of last night. It was
settled (contrary to the plan when you left) that John, }ny brother's man,
sliould accompany Captain Luttrell in the chintz room, and they remain
together till my brother was called. Just after twelve they were disturbed
with some of the noises I had frequently lieard and described, and so plainly
heard by my brother that he quitted his bed long before the time agreed on,
and joined the other two : the noises frequently proceeding from the garrets,
they went up just at break of day, found all the men servants in their proper
apartments, who had heard no disturljance whatever. They examined every
room. Everything appeared snug and in place, and, contrary to usual cus-
tom, the opening and shutting of doors continued (after the other noises
ceased) till five o'clock. My brother authorises me to tell you that neither
himself nor Captain Luttrell can account for what they have heard from any
natural cause ;
yet as my brother declares he shall never close his eyes in
the house, he and Edward are to watch to-night. At the same time that T
derive satisfaction in my reports being fully accredited, I am hurt that the
few days and nights he hoped to enjoy repose should be passed in the
utmost embarrassment and anxiety.
Captain Jervis to Mr. Ricketts.
Portsmouth, Augiist dth, 1771.
The circumstances I am about to relate to you, dear Sir, require more
address than I find myself master of ; it is easy to undertake but difficult to
execute a task of this delicate nature. To keep you longer in suspense
would be painful. I therefore proceed to tell you H House has been dis-
turbed by such strange, unaccountable noises from the 2nd of April to this
day, with little or no intermission, that it is very unfit your family should
continue any longer in it. The children, hajjpily, have not the least idea of
what is doing, but my sister has suft'ered exceedingly through want of rest,
and by keeping this event in her own breast too loiig.
5i Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [xVfhil, 1^93.
Happy .should I have been to have known it earlier, as I might have got
rid of the alarm with the greatest facility, and dedicated myself entirely to
her service and support till your return ; but engaged as T am with the Duke
of Gloucester, there is no retreating without the worst conse(iuences. You
will do me the justice to believe I have, during the short space this event
has been made known to me, employed every means in my power to investi-
gate it. Cajitain Luttrell, I, and my man John sat up the night after it was
imparted, and I should do great injustice to my sister if I did not acknow-
ledge to have heard wdrat I could not, after the most diligent search and
serious reflection, any way account for. Mr. Luttrell had tlien no doubt of
the cause being beyond the reach of human understanding.
My sister having determined on the steps necessary to pursue, of which
she will ac(|uaint you, I think her situation ought not to accelerate your
return, at least till you are gi-atitied with proving the utility of the laborious
alterations you have inade. The strength of judgment, fortitude, and per-
severance she has shown upon this very trying occasicni surpass all
example, and as she is harassed, not terrified, by this continual agitation, I
have no doubt of her health being established the moment she is removed
from the scene of action and impertinent inquiry, or I would risk everything
to accompany her to the time of your arrival in England ; for which and
every other blessing Heaven can bestow you have the constant prayer of
J. Jervis.
[Addition in Mrs. Ricketts' hand.]
This letter has just come to hand, and I hope will be in time for Mr.
Lewis. Since my brother saw me, I am so extremely recovered both in
health and spirits that there is no longer room for apprehension, and to the
truth of this Mr. and Mrs. Newbolt, who have been beyond measure kind
to me; have set their hand. J. M. Newbolt.
S. Newbolt.
As I wrote you so fully two days ago, I liavo no particulars to add, save
that the dear children have passed the day here, and are very well. —Adieu,
my dearest life, M. E..
'
H ,
AntjHst mil.
I omitted to mention there are several people will prove similar disturb-
ances have been known at H many years past.
To William Henry Ricketts, Esq., -
'
'
Canaan, near Savannah-la-Mar, Jamaica.
Captain Jervis to Mrs. Ricketts.
Alarm, off Lymington, Aiiijnsi IGtJi, 1771.
Our being wind-bound here, gives me an opportunity to repeat my
extreme solicitude for the removal of my dearest sister from the inquietude
she has so long suffered to the prejudice of her health. The more I consider
the incidents, the stronger I see the necessity of a decisive step, and I
almost think there will be propriety in your giving up the house, &c.,
at Christmas. As you have a long quarter's notice to give (jf this, your own
judgment is a better guide than my opinion, but I beg you to resolve never
to enter it again, after your London residence. . . . God Almighty
bless and preserve Mr. R., you, and your lovely children, Jervis.
Mrs. Ricketts to W. Henry Ricketts, Esq.
August nth, nil.
The captain took his final leave of me last week, and greatly hurt I was
to part with him—he has acted so very affectionately to me, and taken that
true interest in everything that concerns me, as I never can forget ;
and
most extraordinary is the subject I have to relate. Without the utmost
Afkil,is93.] Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli. 55
confidence in my veracity—which I believe you have—you could not possibly
credit the strange story I must tell. In order to corroborate my relation,
the captain means to write to you, and I hope his letter will arrive in time
for lue to enclose. You may recollect in a letter I wrote about six weeks
ago I mentioned there were some things in regard to H you would not
find so agreeable as when you left it, and I added that I could not satisfy
your curiosity ; nor did I intend it till you came over, had it been possible
to have rubbed on till then, but when it was thought alxsolutely necessary
by my brother and all my friends that were consulted that I should quit the
place, and that the reason of it was so publicly known that you must hear it
from other hands, we concluded it much more proper you should receive the
truth from us, than a thousand lies and absurdities from others ;
and much
will you feel for what your poor wife has undergone, though I cannot in
writing transmit all the jjarticulars.
On the 2nd of April last I awoke about two in the morning (observe, I
lay in the chintz room, having resigned the yellow room to Nurse and Mary)
and in a few minutes after I heard the sound of feet in the lobby. I listened
a considerable time at the lobby door ; the sound drew near ;
upon this I
rang my bell ;
my maid came, we searched the room, nothing to be found ;
Robert was called, and went round with as little success. This appeared to
me extraordinary, but I should have thought little more of it ; had I not, and
all the servants in the house, except Sleepy Jack, heard the strangest noises
of knocking, opening and shutting of doors, talking, explosions, sometimes
as loud as the bursting of cannon.^
I kept it to myself, tremendous as it was, except telling Mrs. Newbolt,
till four months were almost expired, when, as I was so hurt for want of
rest, and thought I could not support it much longer, I took the resolution
to tell my brother, who upon that determined to sit up ;
Captain Luttrell
and his own man with him. The noise was heard in the lobby, and in
different parts of the house ;
they went all over it, every door shut, every
person in his room ;
they were astonished, and the next morning they both
declared that no house was fit to live in where such noises were heard, and
no natural cause appeared. You know how much the notion of haunted
houses is exploded, and how careful any man would be of asserting it, and
in that I think them right ; as for myself, I am not afraid or ashamed to
pronounce that it must proceed from a supernatural cause ; but Avhy, except
as Darby imagines—who passed some days with me—there has been a
murder committed that remains yet undiscovered, or for some other wise
purpose, though not yet manifest? I am at a loss to explain the noises
increasing and coming in the daytime. At length I determined quitting the
place, and be assured, my dearest life, I did not take this painful step while
it was possible to continue there ; and I tliank God I am as I am ; the want
of rest created a little fever on my spirits, which the quiet life I have passed
with the Newbolts, and Dr. Walsh's prescription, have removed, so that
you need not have the least uneasiness about me. Whatever the cause of
these disturbances is, I am sure there has always been something of the
kind since we have lived here ;
you must recollect often hearing the doors open
and shut below stairs, and your going down sometimes during the night, and
finding no person there. The servants have behaved so well, and been so
cautious, that the children have heard nothing of it, which was my great
dread ;
they are now at W ,
which the Bishop desires I will eonunand as my
own, and I mean to go there next week, when I shall be able to get some
necessaries from H , and I can stay at W' till the cold weather sets in.
Sainsbury has behaved in the genteelest manner, and is certain Lady H.
would not Avish us to keep the house a moment longer than it would be a
1 Tliis by me only once.
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Researclt. LApiul, 1S93.
convenience. He has wrote to her, and when he receives an answer, will
communicate to me ;
indeed, my dear, we cannot think of living there.
Strange and recent (.sic) as this must appear to you, be assured no means
of investigating tlie truth has beeii left untried, and that it is no trick—though
that is the current belief, and that Witerr( ?) is concerned—but I know neither
he nor any human being could carry it on. I have received the greatest
friendship and attention from all my neighbours ; the Shipleys have been
particularly kind in offering me the house in town till the middle of J anuary,
and doing everything to contribute to my peace of mind, and so have the
Newbolts. I shall not attempt to lix myself till you come over, as I can have
W , I daresay, till that time, but if we should determine on going abroad,
it will be very inconvenient to have any besides our own family, and b.y a
letter from the lieutenant (G, Poyntz Ricketts), I forgot to mention, that
the same noises have been heard by the servants since we quitted the
house.
Me. Sainsbury (Lady H.'s Agent) to Mks. Ricketts.
September IStlu 3 771.
Madam, —At my return home, Sunday, I found a letter from Lady H.,
in consequence of which I am this day going to H with two of her men
to sit up, under the permission you gave me.
Her ladyship desires me to present her best compliments to you, and to
inform you tlaat she is very sorry you have been so much disturbed and
frightened, and to assure you that she will do everything in her power to
find out who have used you so ill, and to beg your leave for me and two
more to .sit up, and shoot at the place whence any noise jH'oceeds, and if
n(_)tliing can be discovered by those means, then to advertise a reward of
fifty guineas to any person that will discover the contriver of this wicked
scheme.—I am, with great i-espect, madam, your most obedient humble
servant, Jno. Sainsbuiiy.
RoBEET Gamis to Mrs. Ricketts.
Simdaij 3Iurn,ing.
Honoured Madam,—Mr. Sainsbury left our house about eleven o'clock,
fryday, but he talked with Mother some time before he went of, and asked
her a Great many rjuestions Concerning the Noises. She told him Every-
thing as She Could think of, that she had heard you and all the Rest of us
say, he said he had not much notion of Spirits, but he Could not tell what
God would pleas to send to find things out.
Dr. Dunford Gave me the notis to fasen it to the Curcli, so I wrote a
Coppy of itt and sent itt to you. there is one att H , one at B ,
and one
at K . Dr. Dunford told me Mr. Sainsbury gave itt liim. but I do not
no what day itt was— which is all at present from
your Dut. Servant, Robert Camis.
"The Notis.
'
' Whareas some evil disposed person or persons have for severe!
Months past freequently made divers kinds of noises in the Mantion house
occupied by Mrs. Ricketts, att H . This is to give notis that if any person
or persons will Discover the Auther or Authers thereof to me, such person
or persons shall Receive a reward of Fifty Guineas, to be paid on the
Conviction of the offenders, or if any person Concerned in makeing such
Noises Will Discover his or her Acomplice or acomplices therein, such
I^erson shall be pardoned, and l)e intitled to the same Reward, to be paid
on Conviction of the Oft'ender. "Jno. Sainsbury.
''Beptember 20, 1771."
Ai'KiL, 1893.] Journal of Society for Fdtjchieal Research. 57
Robert Camis to Mks. Ricketts.
March yc 8ih.
HoNouKED Madasi, —I hope you have received a letter that was directed
to H . I am very sorrey that we cannot find out the reason of tlie noi.se,
that we might come to H again, as we have not heard anything since. My
juotlaer came one morning last week, and told me .she had dreamed three
nights after one another that she was uxjon the great stairs up at the landing-
place that leads into the garrots, and was troubled in her dreams, and was
rambling about a great way, but att the end she was always there. One of
the nights she dremed she was in the road from C , and found a
large pair of stuf shoes laceed with silver very much, and a pair- of gloves
v/itli a great deal of lace upon itt, and she brought itt to you, and shewed
itt to you, and then she carreed it to the top of the great stairs.
So she was there in the greatest part of her dreanrs. So my mother and
I went up and searched every part we coud think of. I pulled up a Ijoard
in the dark closet in the first garrot where there was a little hole, but found
nothing, so we went into the lumber garrot that is over the best bedroom,
and lookt every place we could think of, but found nothing.
There was a iron chest lockt that we could not open. I took it up,
shook itt, and there was something like iron rattled, and something like
a role of paper with itt. So I vvrc^te this to know if you new what was in itt
—if the key is lost itt will be very difficult to open itt. My mother gives
lier duty to you, and hopes you will not be angry for mentioning her dream.s
to you. My Mother and all of us is very well, and joyns with me in duty
from your dutifull servant, Robert Camis.
[Note by Mrs. Ricketts. —The chest was afterwards forced open, and
nothing found in it save old accounts of no consec^uence.]
Robert Camis to Mrs. Ricketts.
H , Noc. 24th.
Honoured Mauaji, —I have not heard any noises in the house myself,
but my mother and sister Martha was in the kitchen on Wednesday last
about twelve o'clock, and of a sudden they heard a dismal groaning very
loud—one thought it was in the housekeeper's room, and the other thought
ifc was over the meal bin—they ware botli surprized very nuicli, and thought
they had better go (jut of doors to see if any body was there, but they found
no body, and when they came in again they heard no more of itt .
Robert Camis to Mrs. Ricketts.
No Date.
I have heard no noise myself, l)ut on Satterday aliout eleven a clock my
mother went home to make her bed, and left sister Martha in the cliicking
att work with her needle. She heard a noise like a roleing clap of thunder ;
it did not surprise her because slie thought it was thunder, for it gered
(jarred the windows, but she went to the gardner to no if he herd it
thunder, and he said he did not. About twelve o'clock my mother came into
the house and said she did not here any thunder. The noise appeared to she
to be towards the yallow room. Itt seemed to role along, which made her
think itt was thunder.
H Parsonage, .Jidij 7f/t, 1772.
To my dear children I address the following relation, anxious that the truths
which I so faithfully have delivered shall be as faithfully transmitted to
posterity, to my own in particular. I determined to commit them to
writing, which I recommend to their care and attentive consideration,
entreating them to bear in mind the peculiar mercy of Providence in
preserving them from all affright and terror during the series of wonderful
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Apeil,1893.
disturbances tliat suiTounded them, wishing them to be nssured the veracity
of their mother was i^ure and undoubted, that even in her infancy it was
in the family a proverb, and according to the testimony of that excellent
person Chancellor Hoadly she was tnith itself; she writes, not to gratify
vanity, but to add weight to her relation.
To the Almiglity and Unerring Judgment of Heaven and Earth I dare
appeal for the truth, to the best of my memory aaid comprehension, of
what I here relate. Maky Ricketts.
The MansionHouse and estate of H , near A , H shire, devolved
in 1755 to the Right Honourable Henry Bilson L. in right of his lady, daughter
and sole lieiress of Lord Y. , who married the eldest daughter and co-heiress
of Sir Hugh X., Bart., by whose ancestors the estate at H had been
possessed many generations, and by this marriage passed to Mr. Y. on the
death of the said Sir Hugh.
Mr. (who on the death of his elder brother became Lord) Y. made
H his constant residence. Honoria, the youngest sister of his lady, lived
Avith them during the life of her sister, and so continued with Lord Y.
till her death in 1754. ^
On the evening of April 2nd, 1756, Lord Y., sitting alone in the little
paidour at H , was seized with a lit of apoplexy ; he articulated one
sentence only to be understood, and continued speechless and insensible
till the next morning, when he expired.
His lordship's family at the time consisted of the following domestics :
Isaac M., house steward and bailiff. Sarah P., housekeeper, who had
lived in the family irear forty years. Thomas P., coachman, husband to
said Sarah, who had lived there upwards of forty years. Elizabeth B.,
housemaid, an old servant. Jane D., daii-ymaid. Mary B., cook. Joseph
S., butler. Joseph, groom. Richard T., gardener, and so continued by
Mr. Ricketts. Loixl Y. had one son, who died at Westminster School, aged
sixteen.
Thomas P., his wife, and Elizabeth B. continued to liave the care of the
house during the lifetime of Mr. L., who usually came there for one month
every year in the shooting season. On liis death, in August, 1764, Lady Y.,
so created in her own right, since married to the Earl of H., determined to
let H Mansion, and Mr. Ricketts took it in December following. Thomas
P. was at that time lying dead in the house. His widow and Elizabeth
B. quitted it on our tidcing possession in January, 17(55. We removed
thither from town, and liad the same domestics that lived with us there, and
till some time afterwards we had not any house-servant lielonging to the
neighbourhood. Soon after we were settled at H 1 frequently heard noises
in the night, as of people shutting, or rather slajjping doors with vehemence.
Mr. Ricketts went often round the house on supposition there were either
housebreakers or irregularity among his servants. In these searches he
never could trace any jjerson ; the servants were in their proper apartments,
and no appearance of disorder. The noises continued to be heard, and I
could conceive no other cause than that some of the villagers had false keys
to let themselves in and out at pleasure ; the only preventive to this evil
was changing the locks, which was accordingly done, yet without the effect
we had reasonably expected.
About six months after we came thither, Elizabeth Brelsford, nurse to
our eldest son, Henry, then about eight months old, was sitting by him
when asleep, iji the room over the pantry, ajipropriated for the nursery,
and, being a hot summer's evening, the door was open that faces the entrance
1 A tablet in H Church records that Honoria X. died on November 25th, 1754,
in the G7tli year of her age.
April, 1SJ3. Journal of Society for Jr'sychical Research. 59
into the yellow beclchaiuber, whicla, with the adjoining dressing-rooui, was
the apartment usually occupied by the lady of the house. She was sitting
directly opposite to tliis door, and plainly saw (as she afterwards related) a
gentleman in a drab-coloured suit of clothes go into the yellow room. She
was in no way surprised at the time, but on the housemaid, Molly Newman,
coming up witli her supper, she asked what strange gentleman was come.
Upon the other answering there was no one, she related wliat is already
described, and desired her fellow-servant to accompany her to search the
room ; this they did immediately without any appearance of what she had
seen. She was much concerned and disturlDed, and she was thoroughly
assured she could no ways be deceived, the light being sufficient to distin-
guish any object clearly. In some time after it was mentioned to me.
1 treated it as the etfect of fear or superstition, to which the lower class of
people are so prone, and it was entirely obliterated from my mind till the
late astonishing disturbances brought to my recollection this and other pre-
vious circumstances.
In the autumn of the same year George T , son of the gardener of
that name, who was then groom, crossing the great hall to go to bed, saw at
the other end a man in a drab-coloured coat, whom he concluded to be the
butler, who wore such coloured clothes, he being lately come and his livery
not made. As he passed immediately upstairs to the room where all the
men servants lay, he was in great astonishment to find the butler and the
other men servants in bed. Thus the person he had seen in the hall
remained unaccounted for, like the same person before described by the
nurse ; and George T , novr living, avers these particulars in the same
manner he first related them.
In the month of July, 1767, about seven in the evening, there were sitting
in the kitchen, Thomas Wheeler, postilion ; Ann Hall, my own woman ;
Sarah, waiting woman to Mrs. Mary Poyntz ; and Dame Lacy ; the other
servants were out excepting the cook, then employed in washing up her
things in the scullery.
The persons in the kitchen heard a woman come downstairs, and along
the passage leading towards them, whose clothes rustled as of the stifl'est
silk ; and on their looking that way, the door standing open, a female figure
rushed past, and out of the house door, as they conceived. Tlieir view of
her was imperfect ; but they plainly distinguished a tall figure in dark-
coloured clothes. Dame Brown, the cook, instantly coming in, this figure
passed close by her, and instantly disappeared. She described the person
and drapery as before mentioned, and they all united in astonishment who
or what this appearance could be ; and their surprise was heightened when
a man, coming directly through the yard and into the house the way she
went out, on being asked who the woman was he met, declared he had seen
no one.
Ann Hall, since married to John Sparks, now living at Rogate, near
Petersfield, will testify to the truth of this relation, as will Dame Bro'wn,
now living at Bramdean. The postilion is since dead.
Meanwhile, the noises continued to be heard occasionally. Miss Parker's
woman, Susan Maidstone, was terrified with the most dismal groans and
rustling round her bed. At difi'erent times most of the servants were
alarmed with noises that could no way be accounted for. In the latter end
of the year 1769 Mr. Ricketts went to Jamaica ; I continued at H with my
three infant children and eight servants, whose names and connections were
as follows : —Ann Sparks, late Ann Hall, my own woman, the daughter of
very industrious parents. Sarah Horner, nurse, sister to a substantial
farmer of that name, and of a family of integrity and property. Hannali
Streeter, imrsemaid, of reputable parents and virtuous principles. Lucy
Webb, housemaid, of honest principles. Dame Brown, cook, quiet and
60 Jownial of Society fur Ftsycltlcal Re^eavcft. [Afuil, 1893.
regular. John Sparks, coachman. John Horner, postilion, aged sixteen
years, eldest son to the farmer above-mentioned. Lewis Chanson, butler,
a Swiss and of strict integrity. Eichard T ,
gardener, but did not
live in the house.
I have been thus jjarticular in the descripti(3n of those persons of whom
my family was composed, to ]3rove the improbability that ;i set of ignorant
country people, excepting the Swiss alone, should league to cany on a
diabolical scheme imijuted to them so injuriously, and which in truth was
far beyond the art and reach of man to compass.
Some time after Mr. Ricketts left me, I—then lying in the bedroom over
the kitchen—heard frequently the noise of some one walking in the room
within, and the rustling as of silk clothes against the door that opened into
my room, sometimes so loud and of such continuance as to break my rest.
Instant search being often made, we never could discover any apijearance
of human or brute being.
Kejjeatedly disturbed in the same manner, I made it my constant practice
to search the room and closets within, and to secure the only door that led
from that room on the inside in such manner as to be certain no one could
gain entrance without jjassing through my own apartment, which was always
made fast by a di-aw-bolt on the door. Yet this precaution did not preclude
the disturbance, which continued with little interruption.
About this time an old man, living in the poor-house at W M ,
came and desired to speak to me. When admitted, he told me he could not
rest in his mind without acquainting me that his wife had often related to
him that in her younger days a carpenter, whom she had well known, had
told her he was once sent for by Sir Hugh X. , and directed by him to take up
some boards in the dining-room, known in our time by the name of lobby,
and that Sir Hugli had concealed something underneath which he, the car-
penter, conceived was treasure, and then he was ordered to put down the
lioards in the same manner as they lay before. This account I repeated to
Mr. Sainsbury, attorney to Lady H., that if he thouglit it were a probability
he might have the floor taken up and examined.
Li February, 1770, John Sparks and Ann, his Avife, quitted my service,
and went to live upon their fai'm at Rogate. In place of John Sparks I
hired Robert Camis, one of six sons of Roger and Mary Camis, of the
parish of H , and whose ancestors have been in possession of a little
estate there upwards of four hundred ye;irs —a family noted for their moral
and religious lives. In the room of Ann Sparks I hired Ruth Turpin, but
she being disoi-dered in mind continued with me but few months. I then
took Elizabeth Godin, of A ,
sister to an eminent grocer of that place.
Lewis Chans<m quitted me in August, 1770, and I hired Edward Russel, now
living with Mr. Harris, of A , to succeed him.
I jnention these changes among my domestics, though in themselves un-
important, to evince the impossibility of a confederacy, for the course of
nearly seven years, and with a succession of different persons, no that at the
time of my leaving H I had not one servant that lived with me at my
first going thither, nor for some time afterwards.
In the summer of 1770, one night that I was lying in the yellow bed-
chamber (the same I have mentioned that the person in drab-coloured
clothes was seen to enter), I had been in bed half an hour thoroughly
awake, and without the least terror or apprehension on my spirits. I plainly
heard the footsteps of a man, with plodding step, walking towards the foot
of my bed. I thought the danger too near to ring my bell for assistance,
but sprang out of bed and in an instant was in the luu-sery opposite ;
and
with Hannah Streeter and a light I returned to search for wliat I had lieard,
but all in vain. There was a light burning in the dressing-room within, as
usual, and there was no door or means of escape save at the one that opened
Apbii,, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.. 61
to the nursery. This alarm perplexed me more than any preceding, being
within my own room, the footsteps as distinct as ever I heard, myself j^er-
fectly awake and collected.
I had, nevertheless, resolution to go to bed alone in the same room, and
did not form any conclusion as to the cause of this very extraordinary dis-
turbance. For some months afterwards I did not hear any noise tliat par-
ticularly struck my attention, till, in November of the same year, I then
being removed to the chintz bedroom over the hall, as a warmer apartment,
I once or twice heard sounds of harmony, and one night in particular I heard
three distinct and violent knocks as given with a club, or something very
ponderous against a door below stairs ; it occurred to me that housebreakers
must be forcing into some apartment, and I immediately rang my bell. No
one hearing the summons, and the noise ceasing, I tliought no further of it
at that time. After this, and in the beginning of the year 1771, I was fre-
quently sensible of a hollow murmuring that seemed to possess the whole
house ; it was independent of wind, being equally Iieard on the calmest
nights, and it was a sound I had never been accustomed to hear.
On the morning of the 27 th of February, when Elizabeth Godin came
into my room, I inquired what weather. She replying in a" very faint tone,
I asked if she were ill. She said she was well, but had never in her life
been so terrified as during the preceding niglit ; that she had heard the
most dismal groans and fluttering round her bed most part of the night, that
she had got up to search the room and up tlie chiuaiey, and though it was a
bright moonlight she could not discover anything. I did not pay mucli
attention to her account, but it occurred to me that should anyone tell her
it was the room formerly occupied by Mrs. P., the old housekeeper, she
would be afraid to lie there again. Mrs. P. dying a few days before at K ,
was brought and interred in H cliui'chyard tlie evening of the night
this disturbance hapjDened.
That very day five weeks, being the 2nd of April, I waked between one
and two o'clock, as I found by my watcli, which, with a rusliliglit, was on a
table close to my bedside. I lay thorougldy awake for some time, and then
heard one or more persons walking to and fro in the lobby adjoining. I got
out of bed and listened at the door for the space of twenty minutes, in which
time I distinctly heard the walking with tlie addition of a loud noise like
pushing strongly against a door. Being thus assured my senses were not
deceived I determined to ring my bell, to which I had before much reluct-
ance on account of disturbing the nursery maid, wlio was veiy ill of a fever.
Elizabeth G-odin during lier illness lay in the room with my sons, and
came immediately on hearing my bell. Thoroughly convinced there were
persons in the lobby, before I opened my door, I asked her if she saw no
one there. On her rejjlying in the negative, T went out to her, examined
the window, which was shut, looked under the couch, the only furniture of
concealment there ; the chimney board was fastened, and when removed,
all was clear behind it. She found the door into the lobby shut, as it was
every night. After this examination I stood in the middle of the room,
pondering with much astonishment, when suddenly the door that opens into
the little recess leading to the yellow apartment sounded as if played to and
fro by a person standing behind it. This was more than I could bear un-
moved. I ran into the nursery and rang the bell there that goes into the
men's apartments. Robert Camis came to the door at the landing place,
which door was every night secured, so tliat no person coidd get to that flf)or
uidess through the windows. Upon opening the door to Robert I told him
the reason I had to suppose that someone was intrenched behind the door T
before mentioned, and giving him a light and arming him with a billet of
wood, myself and Elizabeth Godin waited the event. Upon opening the
door there was not any being whatever, and the yellow apartnient was
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, [Apna, 1893.
locked, the key hanging up, and a great bolt drawn across the outside door,
as usual when not in
"
use. There was then no further retreat or hiding
place. After dismissing Robert and securing the door, I went to bed in my
sons' room, and about half an hour afterwards heard tliree distinct knocks,
as described before ;
they seemed below, but I could not then or ever after
ascertain the place. The next night I lay in my own room ;
I now and then
heard noises and frequently the hollow murmur.
On the 7th of May, exactly tlie day five weeks from the 2nd of April,
this murmur was uncommonly loud. I could not sleep, apprehending it the
prelude to some greater noise. I got up and went to the nursery, stayed
there till half an hour past three, and then, being daybreak, I thought I
should get some sleep in my own apartment ; I returned and lay till ten
minutes before four, and then the great hall door directly under me was slapped
to with the utmost violence, so as to shake my room perceivably. I jumped
out of bed to the window that commands the porch. There was light to dis-
tino-uish every object, but none to be seen that could account for what I had
heard. Upon examining the door it was found fast locked and bolted as
usual. . 1 1 •
From this time I determined to have my woman lie in a little bed m my
room. The noises grew more frequent, and she was always sensible of the
same sounds, and much in the same direction as they struck me. Harassed
and perplexed, I was yet very unwilling to divulge my embarrassment. I had
"
taken every method to investigate the cause, and could not discover the
least appearance of trick ; on the contrary, I became convinced it was beyond
th'3 power of any mortal agent to perform, but knowing how exploded such
opinions were, I kept them in my own bosom, and hoped my resolution
would enable me to support whatever might befall.
After Midsummer the noises became every night more intolerable. They
began before I went to bed, and with intermissions were heard till after
broad day in the morning. I could frequently distinguish articulate sounds,
and usually a shrill female voice would begin, and then two others with
deeper and manlike tone seemed to join in the discourse, yet, though this
conversation sounded as if close to me, I never could distinguish words.
I have often asked Elizabeth Godin if she heard any noise, and of what sort.
She as often described the seeming conversation in the manner I have
related, and other noises. One night in particular my bed curtains rustled,
and sounded as if dragged by a person walking against them. I then asked
her if she heard any noise and of what kind. She spoke of it exactly in the
manner I have done. Several times I heard sounds of harmony within the
room—no distinct or regular notes, but a vibration of harmonious tones ;
walking, talking, knocking, opening and slapping of doors were repeated
every night. My brother, who had not long before returned from the
Mediterranean, had been to stay with me, yet so great was my reluctance^ to
relate anything beyond the Ijomids of probability that I could not liring
myself to disclose my embarrassed situation to the friend and brother ivho
could most essentially serve and comfort me. The noises continuing in the
same manner when he was with me, I wished to learn if he heard them, and
one morning I carelessly said : "I was afraid last night the servants would
disturb you, and rang my bell to order them to bed." He replied he had
not heard them. The morning after he left me to return to Portsmouth,
about three o'clock and daylight, Elizabeth Godin and myself both awake-
she had been sitting up in bed looking round her, expecting as she always
did to see something terrible—I heard with infinite astonishment the
most loud, deep, tremendous noise, which seemed to rush and fall with
infinite velocity and force on the lobby floor adjoining to my room. I
started up, and called to Godin, "Good God I did you hear that noise?" She
made no reply ; on repeating the question, she answered with a faltering
Apbil,1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. G3
voice, She was so frightened she scarce durst speak." Just at that in-
stant we heard a shrill and dreadful shriek, seeming to proceed from under
the spot where the rushing noise fell, and repeated three or four times
growing fainter as it seemed to descend, till it sank into earth Hannah
btreeter, who lay m the room with my children, heard the same noises and
was so appalled she lay for two hours almost deprived of sense and motion
Having heard little of the noises preceding, and that little she did not
regard she liad rashly expressed a wish to hear more of them, and from that
night till she (luitted the house tliere was scarce a night past that she did
iiot_ hear the sound as if some person walked towards her door, and pushed
against it, as though attempting to force it open. This alarm, so more than
commonly liorrible, determined me to impart the whole series to my brotlier
on his return to H—,
expected in a week. The frequency of the noises
harassing to my rest, and getting up often at unreasonable hours, fixed a slovv
tever and deep cough, my health was much impaired, but my resolution firm
I remained m aiixious expectation of my brotlier, and he being detained a
week longer at Portsmouth than lie had foreseen, it occurred to me to
endeavour, by changing my apartment, to obtain a little rest ; I removed to
that formerly occupied by Elizabeth Godin ; I did not mention my intention
till ten at iiiglit, when the room was prepared, and I went to bed soon after
i had scarce lam down wlien the same noises surrounded me that I before
liave related, and I mention the circumstance of changing my room without
previous notice, to prove the impossibility of a plan of operations l^einr. so
suddenly conveyed to another part of the house were they such as human
agents could achieve. The week following I was comforted by the arrival of
my brother. However desirous to impart the narrative, yet I forbore till
the next morning ;
I wished him to enjoy a night's rest, and therefore con-
teiitec myself with preparing him to hear on the morrow the most astonish
ing tale that ever assailed his ears, and that he must summon all his trust
of my veracity to meet my relation. He replied it was scarce possible for
me to relate any matter he could not believe, little divining the nature of
what I had to offer to his faith.
The next morning I began my narrative, to which he attended with
mixed surpris^e and wonder. Just as I had finished. Captain Luttrell our
neighbour at K , chancing to call, induced my brother to impart the whole to
him, who m a very friendly manner oflered to unite his endeavours to inves-
tigate the cause. It was then agreed he should come late in the evenino- and
divide the^ night watch between them, keeping profoundly secret there was
any such intention. My brother took the precaution, accompanied by his
own servant, John Bolton, to go into every apartment, mrticularly those on
the farst and attic story, examined every place of concealment, and saw eacli
door fastened, save those to chambers occupied by the family •
this done lie
went to bed in the room over the servants' hall.
Captain Luttrell and my brother's man with arms sat xm in the chmi?
room adjoining, and my brother was to be called on any alarm
I lay that night in Elizabeth Godin's room, and the children in the
nurseries ;
thus every chamber on that floor was occupied. I bolted and
locked the door that opened to that floor from the back stairs so that there
watch°
^^^^'^'^^^ "'^^'^•'^'^ through tlie room where Captain Luttrell kept
T '7"t,v' ^tl 'l^'",'-'
^ ^'^^'''^ rustling as of a person close to the door
I ordered Elizabetli Godm to sit up a while, and if the noise continued to
go and acquaint Mr. Luttrell.
>^iuucu, lo
She heard it, and instantly Mr. Luttrell's room door was thrown open
and we heard him speak.
nuwu open,
inomhi?
''''
*° my brother and myself the next
64 Journal of Society for Psyehioal Research. [ApRit, 1893.
He said he heard the footsteps of a person walking across the lobby, that
he instantly threw the door open, and called, " Who goes there?" That
something flitted past him, when my brother directly called out "Look
against my door." He was awake, and heard what Mr. Luttrell had said,
and also the continuance of the same noise till it reached his door. He arose
and joined Mr. Luttrell. Both astonished, they heard various other noises,
examined everywhere, found the staircase door fast secured as I had left it.
I lay so near, and had never closed my eyes, no one could go to that door
unheard. My brother and his man proceeded up stairs, and found the ser-
vants in their own rooms, and all doors closed as they had seen just before.
They sat up together, my brother and Mr. Luttrell, till break of day, when
my brother returned to his own chamber. About that time, as I imagined,
I heard the chintz room door opened and slammed to with the utmost
violence, and immediately that of the liall chamber opened and shut in the
same manner. I mentioned to Godin my surprise that my brother, who
was ever attentive not to alarm or disturb the children, should hazard both
by such vehement noise. An hour after I heard the house door open and
siam in the same way, so as to shake the house. No one person was then
up, for as I had never slept, I heard the servants rise and go down about
half an hour afterwards. When we were assembled at breakfast, I observed
the noise my brother had made with the doors.
Mr. Luttrell replied, " I assure you Jervis made not the least noise ;
it
was your door and the next I heard opened and slapped in the way you
describe."
My brother did not hear either. He afterwards acknowledged to me
that when gone to bed and Mr. Luttrell and I were sitting helow, he heard
dreadful groans and various noises that he was then and after unable to
account for. His servant was at that time with mine below.
Captain Luttrell declared the disturljances of the preceding night were of
such a nature that the house was an unlit residence for any human_ being.
My brother, though more guarded in his expressions, concurred in that
opinion, and the result of our deliberations was to send an express to Mr.
Sainsbu'ry, Lady H.'s steward, to request he would come over immediately
on a very particular occasion, with which he would be made acquainted on
his arrival.
Unluckily, Mr. Sainsbury was confined with the gout, and sent over his
clerk, a youth of fifteen, to whom we judged it useless and improper to
divulge the circumstances.
My brother sat up every night of the week he then passed at H . in
the middle of one of these nights I was surprised with the sound of a gun or
pistol let off near me, immediately followed by groans as of a person in
ao-onies, or expiring, that seemed to proceed between my chamber and the
next, the nursery. I sent Godin to Nurse Horner, to ask if she had heard
any noise ; she had not. Upon my inquiry the next morning of my brother,
he had [not] heard it, though the report and groans were loud and deep.
Several instances occurred where very loud noises were heard by one or
two persons, when those equally near and in the same direction were not
sensible of the least impression.
As the watching every night made it necessary for my brother to gam
rest in the day, he usually lay down after dinner. During one of these
times he was gone to rest. I had sent the children and their attendants out
to walk, the "dairymaid gone to milk, the cook in the scullery, iny own
woman with my brother's man sitting together in tlie servants' hall ;
I,
reading in the parlour, heard my brother's bell ring with great quickness. I
ran to his room, and he asked me if I had heard any noise, "because, '
said
he, " as I was lying wide awake an immense weight seemed to fall through
the ceUino- to the floor just by tliat maliogany press, and it is impossible I
April, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psijchical Research. 65
shnuld be deceived." His man was by this time come up, and said he was
sitting underneatli the room as I before mentioned, and heard not the least
noise. The inquiry and attention my brother devoted to investigate this
aifair was such as from the reach of his capacity and ardent spirit might be
expected ; the result was his earnest request that I would quit the place,
and when obliged to return to Portsmouth, that I would permit him to send
Mr. Nichols, his Lieutenant of Marines, and an old friend of the family, to
continue till my removal with me.
One circumstance is of a nature so singularly striking that I cannot omit
to relate it. In one of our evening's conversations on this wonderful train
of disturbances I mentioned a very extraordinary effect I had frequently
observed in a favourite cat that was usually in the parlour with me, and when
sitting on table or chair with accustomed vmconcern she would suddenly
slink down as if struck with the greatest terror, conceal herself under my
chair, and put her head close to my feet. In a short space of time she would
come forth quite unconcerned. I had not long given him this account before
it was verified to him in a striking manner. We neither then, nor I at other
times, perceived the least noise that could give alarm to the animal, nor did
I ever perceive the like effect before these disturbances, nor afterwards
when she was removed with me to another habitation. The servants gave
the same account of a spaniel that lived in the house, but to that, as I did
not witness, I cannot testify.
There is another copy, and no more to be taken unless either be de-
stroyed. Mary Ricketts.
These two narratives are for my grand-daughters Martha and Henrietta
Jervis, not to be read until twenty-one or upwards, nor then unless their
nerves are firm. The letters, belonging to be carefully j^reserved.
FiKST Nakeative, in Mrs. Ricketts's Handwriting. To be Read at
Leisure.
*******
£60 reward was offered on discovery by Lady Y. , which Mr. Ricketts, on
his return, increased to £100. The Bishop of W lent me the old Palace at
W- , to occupy at races or on any public occasion, and thither I removed
when it was no longer thought proper I should remain at H ; and when
I left, the Bishoji of St. Asaph offered me his house in town, where I stayed
till I had taken one in Curzon Street.
What determined my removal to W was, after trying to obtain rest
by removing to Dame Camis's house, when I returned to the mansion I was
soon after assailed by a noise I never before heard, very near me, and the
terror I felt not to be described. It then appeared I was no longer to be
supported, after my brother was convinced I ought not to delay my removal.
I therefore accepted the earnest invitation of my friends Mr. and Mrs. New-
bolt, and continued with them till W was prepared for my dear chil-
dren, where we remained till November, with the exception of three daj's,
with Dr. Gilbert, Canon of S- ,
and his daughter ; and there Lord Radnor
—then Lord Folkestone—was very desirous to see the lady that came from
the haunted house.
The Bishop of St. Asajjli opposed, on the ground tliat such means were
unworthy the Deity to emjDloy, while the good Bishop of W , when I
related that Robert Camis had been thrice called at the window in a voice
he well remembered, that of the steward of the late Lord Y., said he should
have conjured him hy the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost ; which I
told him, but believe no such occasion occurred, or courage failed. This
steward stole his lord's gold buckles, and was much suspected of other dis-
honesty ;
whence, probably, arose the idea of concealed treasure, I never
heard that any -was found,
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Apeil, 1893.
When Lord Y. was seized with the fit that carried liim off, he called to
his man, " Cut a vein, cut a vein 1
" but no vein was cut. The excellent
Dame Camis, from whom I had much information of the X. and Y. family.
Dr. Durnford, minister of B , who performed duty at H ,
also told
me that, in the number of years he had ofliciated, he had never known her
miss Divine Service, unless illness of any one of her family or of herself
prevented.
When Mr. Ricketts returned fronr Jamaica, having continued to keep
H—— on account of our cattle and the nranor, Mr. Ricketts took the Parson-
age where we resided for two years, when the purchase of Longwood Avas
made, and we removed thither.
Na-rrativb No. 2, in Mrs. Ricketts's Handwriting, and attested by
HEK Second Son, Edward Jervis Ricketts, afterwards Viscount
St. Vincent.
After Mrs. Ricketts had quitted H House, and before possession
had been given to Lady H., the keys were left with Dame Camis, who came
over every fair day to open the windows, she living close by.
Mr. George Ricketts and Mr. Poyntz Ricketts, active young men in the
prime of life, were walking to and fro close to the house on the paddock side,
when a great noise was heard within it, upon which one of them said, "They
are at their tricks again, let us go in and see." They lose no time getting
through the drawing-room window on the ground floor, and proceeding
throughout the house. No living creature was to be found in it, neither
was there any appearance of anything that could have been moved so as to
occasion the sounds they heard.
(Signed) Edward Jervis Ricketts.
Narrative No. 3.—Notes taken by Osborne Markham, Esq., from
Mrs. Ricketts's Dictation.
Miss Parker, mentioned in pa^e 8 (page 14 of the pamphlet), was after-
wards Lady St. Vincent, who with her sister (afterwards Mrs. Heathcote)
was staying in the house during the time their father. Chief Baron Parker,
was going the circuit.
It is understood that when Mrs. Ricketts left H slie went to the
palace of the Bishop of W , of which his kindness gave her the occasional
use, she Ijeing an intimate friend and relation to his wife. After Mrs.
Ricketts left H (say within a year) another family (Mr. Lawrence) came
to reside there, who stayed about a year and then suddenly quitted it.
After this the house was never occupied. On being pulled down there
was found by the workmen under the floor of one of the rooms a small skull,
said to be that of a monkey ; but the matter was never brought forward by
any regular inquiry, or professional opinion resorted to as to the real nature
of the skull.
The first appearance of anything Ijeing seen or heard was before Mrs.
Ricketts took possession of H , which did not come to her knowledge
until some time after the disturbances had been heard in the house. Joseph
(the groom) then being one of the servants left in occupation of the house,
and being in bed in the garret, the moon shining brightly into the room, and
he being clearly awake, saw a man in a drab coat with his hands behind him,
in the manner his late master held them, lo(jking steadfastly upon him.
Note by Martha H. G. Jervis. — A number of papers (broadsides, &c.)
which had been concealed during the civil wars were found under the floor
of the lobby when the house was pulled down, and a small box containing
what was said to be the skull of a monkey.
Notes in the handwriting of Martha Honora Georgina Jervis, elder of
Mrs. Ricketts's two grand-daughters, to whom the manuscripts were left,
ApKit, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 07
and second wife of Osborne Markliam, Esq., the writer of the foregoing-
pages :—
Narrative by Martha H. G. Jervis.
Rosehill, J<dii 10th, 1818.
I called on old Lucy Camis at tlie farm and inquired if slie had recently
heard of Hannah Streeter. She rei^lied that she lived at the Lower Brook,
W , and that she (Lucy) had been to see her last year, and asked
if she remembered having been disturbed by the noises at H ,
particu-
larly one night when the other servants were gone to bed, when, being in
the servants' hall, they heard a sound as of the great iron brazier falling
tlirough the roof of the pantry (over which tliere was no room), and that it
went " Twiii ! twirl ! tioid ! " till it sank in the ground. They were so much
terrified that Lucy would not venture up to the garrets, but slept that night
in the nursery. They found the brazier the next morning in the place where
it had been left.
When Lord St. Vincent was in the house, and the servants were sus-
pected of making the disturbances, Mrs. Rioketts went one night for sonae-
thing she wanted to the housekeeper's room, Avhich opened into the kitchen,
where the domestics were all assembled at supper. She then heard noises,
and was near fainting, and called to some one to accomjjany her up to her
brother.
The morning after Mrs. P. 's interment Elizabeth Godin complained to
the other servants that she had been dreadfully disturbed the preceding
night, and that soon after she was in bed something fell with force against
the window, succeeded by a dismal groan.
Lucy said, " God knows whether these noises were not in consequence of
their sins."
I replied, " What did you suppose they were guilty of 1
"
She said, "God knows whether she had a child and killed it ; but I
cannot say ; it is not for us to suspect them, God knows."
She spoke of Mrs. JRicketts in the highest tei'ms and with many teais ;
said she did so much good in the neighbourhood that it was very unlikely
any should seek to drive her away, above all, her servants, who loved her
and were in perfect harmony with each other.
One night Lucy slept in a small bed in Mrs. Ricketts's room, Elizabeth
Godin being ill. Mrs. Ricketts woke her and asked if she did not hear
music, which she did, and "the steps of some one moving stately to it."
The noises seemed mostly in the lobby and the yellow and adjoining
chambers.
Lucy said that wlien Mr. Lawrence afterwards took possession of the
house he forbid the ser\-ants from saying a word of the distin-bances under
penalty of losing their places. She heard that once, as his housemaid was
standing in the lobby, a female figure rushed by and disappeared, but of the
truth of this she could not vouch.
The foregoing information was given me by Lucy Camis, who was per-
fectly collected, and I merely made such queries as should lead her on with-
out in any degree prompting her recollection.
Martha H. G. Jervis.
Notes and Remarks by the Marquis of Bute.
This case is very interesting, and seems of greater evidential value than
many in which it is possible to interrogate the witnesses, because, although
the events took place 120 years ago, the witnesses in this Distance were very
numerous and various as well as simultaneous and consentient, some of
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Afiul, 18;)3.
tlieni of quite exceptional intelligence, ;incl very great trouble was taken to
observe and sift the facts, and to record them at the time in the numerous
documents heretofore reprinted.
What small and hypothetical explanation the phenomena will bear must
depend in a great measure upon the history of the house, and the following
notes have been compiled not only from the printed pamphlet but also from
Burke's Extinct Baronetaije, and his Extinct Peerage, and Extant Peerage,
and Collins's Peerage.
The family whose home this house was, was an ancient one, but was
originally of M., in S shire. The hrst who lived at H appears to
have been Sir Tltovias X., knight, described in the Heraldic Visitation of
1623 (Berry's County Genealogist—Hant^i) as " Sir Thomas [X.] of M ,
and
now of H ,
1623." It seems not improbal)]e that he built the house, which
is described in the pamphlet as "the (.)ld manor-house." It is a pity that
there is no description, plan, or drawing of the h(juse. It seems to have
been small, as all the servants except the housekeejjer or lady's maid, and
the nurse, slept in the attics, and Mrs. Ricketts remarks that when two
people were staying there every room on tlie bedroom floor was occupied.
On the ground floor there was a drawing-room, probably also the little
parlour (unless these were the same) where Lord Y. was taken ill, and, it is
to be presumed, a dining-room. There was also a large hall, seemingly used
as a servants' hall. There were two staircases, a principal and a back stair,
and from the foot of one of these a passage ran past the kitchen to an outer
door, perhaps the main house door. Off the kitchen was a housekeeper's
room, and near it a scullery. There was also a pantry, over which there
was no room. On the bedroom floor there was a principal bedroom, the
yellow one, which had a dressing-room opeiiing near the back stair. The
yellow bedroom itself opened into a recess, and this into a lobby, a place
with one window and a fireplace , which Mrs. Ricketts says had been used
as a dining-room. Opposite tlie door of the yellow room was that of the
nursery ; over the hall was another bedroom, called the chintz room, and
another room. On this floor also there was at least one other room, usually
occupied by the housekeeper or lady's maid. At the top of tlie princiiial
staircase was a landing from which was a way to go up to the attics
Sir Thomas married Elizabeth, daughter and co-heir of John G. of W ,
B shire, son and heir of Sir John G. of the same, and had at least three
sons, Hugh, Thomas, and John. He was probably an old man in 1623, as
his sister Joan had married George L., of D , S shire, who was High
Sheriff' of that county in 1593. He seems to have died soon after the
visitation, as his eldest son, Sir Hngk X, was created a baronet in 1627. He
is said to have married Sarah, daughter and co-heir of Ambrose D., of L.,
W—-
—shire, and to have died about 1642.
Sir Hugh, X., son of the preceding, and second, baronet, is the Sir Hugh X.
mentioned in the pamphlet as having concealed some papers under tlie floor
of the dining-room, called 1)y tlie Ricketts the lobby. These papers are
stated to have been found when the house was pulled down, and to have
been "broadsides. Arc, which had been concealed during the civil wars."
They were jirobably compromising under the Republican Government, but,
April, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psyddcal Research.
after the Restoration, were either forgotten by Sir Hugh or regarded with
indiflference. Under this floor also was found a small box containing a
little skull, which "was said to be that of a luonkey ;
but the matter was
never brought forward by any regular inquiry or professional opmion
resorted to as to the real nature of the skull." It is not stated whether the
box containing this curious object was found along with the papers, or under
another part of the floor. It is impossible to conceive any motive to induce
either Sir Hugh or anybody else who possessed a monkey's skull as a
zoological curiosity—the only reason why they could have had it at all—to
bury it in a box underneath a floor. It is not stated whether the skull fitted
closely into the box, or whether there might have been room for anythnig
else. A further remark will be made on this skull at the end of this paper.
This Sir Hugh X. married twice. His first wife was Catherine, daughter
and heir of Sir John T., of L H shire, only baronet of that name, as
created in 1660, and who died without male issue in 1672. His second wife
was Mary, daughter of John Y. It is not stated which of these ladies
was the mother of Mary X., afterwards Mrs. Y. Sir Hugh can scarcely
have been less than 80 years of age when he died in 1719, and as he left no
male issue, the baronetcy became extinct. He seems to have left several
daughters, but I have only the names of Mary, the eldest, and Honoria, the
youngest.
ilfarj/ AT. was married on May lOtli, 1719 (the same year as her father's
death, but doubtless before that event), to Edward Y., third son of Ralph Y.,
first Lord Y. of S , S shire. Mrs. Y. had issue, a son S., who died, at
Westminster School, aged 16, and a daughter, Mary. She herself died in
July, 1740.
Edward Y., her widower, continued to live constantly at H ,andwith
him continued to reside her sister Honoria, as she had already been used to
do in her sister's lifetime. Collins usually gives very full biographical
notices, but this case is a curious exception, as he gives nothing but alliances
and a very few dates. That of Edward Y.'s birth is not mentioned, but as
his father died on August 5th, 1689, he cannot have been under 50 years of
age at the death of his wife in 1740. His daughter Mary married,
September 3rd, 1750, the Right Hon. Henry B. L., fourth son of
William L., first Earl of D . On the death of the second of his elder
brothers, January 23rd, 1742, he succeeded to the peerage of Y. According
to Collins he died at A , B shire (which is there called his seat, but
which appears more probably to have been that of his niece Charlotte,
daughter of his brother the third Lord Y., in right of her mother, whose
property it was), on April 13th, 1755, and was buried at H ; but according
to the pamphlet, which appears more likely to be correct, he died suddenly,
at H , on the morning of April 3rd,' from an apoplectic fit with which he
had been seized on the preceding evening.
Mar[I Y., his only daughter and surviving child, was presumably born
not later than 1730, and was married, as already stated, on September 3rd,
1750, to Mr. L. Mr. L. was a politician oi eminence, and though for a
short time Envoy Extraordinary at Berlin, seems to have returned to Englaiul
in 1749. Mrs. L. seems entirely to have abandoned H ,
which remauied
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1893.
in the charge of a few servants, Mr. L. only coming there usually for one
niontli in the shooting season, presumably September or October. Mr. and
Mrs. L. seem to have had only one child, Henry Y. L., born February 22nd,
1757. On May 20th, 1760, Mrs. L. was created Lady Y. in her own
right, with remainder to her male issue by Mr. L. In 1762 Mr. L. was
turned out of office (to use his own expression) and retired into private life.
He died August 21st, 1764. After this Iiis widow proceeded to try and let
H )
and the phenomena mentioned in the pamphlet, which had, however,
commenced very soon, as appears, after her father Lord Y. 's death, took place.
On October 11th, 1768, she became the second wife of Wills H., then Earl of
H , but created in 1789 (after her death) Marquess of D . By him she
had no issue. She was, as is recorded, fully cognisant of the phenomena
and even made a sort of apparent attempt to have tliem investigated,
with a view to show that they were caused by trickery. It seems also probable
that it was by her orders that the house was pulled down. She died July
29th, 1780.
Her son, Henry Y. L., succeeded her as second Lord Y. of the new
creation. He had married, in 1779, the year preceding her death, Mary
C, daughter of A. C, first Viscount C, by whom (who died in 1804) he
had a daughter Mary, married, August 11th, 1803, to John D., second Lord
Z. Lord Y. died without male issue in 1820, and the peerage thereupon
expired. Lady Z. died October 21st, 1864. The property of H was
api3arently settled upon her second son and descended to his heirs.
It would be interesting to know whether any abnormal jjhenomena are now
or are recorded to have ever been observed on or about the site of the old
house, whether occupied by the new house or not.
The following is a chronological arrangement of the facts, as far as they
relate to the phenomena or to the persons who were or may have been
connected with them.
1715. In or previous to this year Thomas P., coachman to Lord Y.,
entered the service of the family, since he had been more than forty years
with them when Lord Y. died in 1755, and he can hardly have been under
15 years of age at the time. Some time after this Sarah P., his wife, entered
the service of the family, since she had been nearly forty years with them
in 1755, and a similar assumption may be made as to her age.
1719. May 10th. Marriage of Mary X. to Edward Y.
Same year. Death of her father. Sir Hugh X., aged about 80.
1740. July. Death of Mrs. Y. Her sister Honoria goes on living
with Mr. Y.
1742. January 23rd. Mr. Y. becomes Lord Y.
1750. September 3rd. Marriage of his daughter, Mary Y., to Mr. L.
1754. [November 25th.] Death, of Honoria X., aged [66].
1755. April 2nd. Lord Y. seized with a fit, and dies the next morning,
aged at least 65. It is remarkable that his cries to be bled were not complied
with, as thougli those about him wished liim to die.
After this all the servants were dismissed, except the P.'s and Elizabeth
B., and Richard T., the gardener, who lived out of the house. The house
is only occupied by Mr. L. for a month in the autumn, a time as to which
ApBiL, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 71
we are not informed that any jDhenomena were ever observed, at least till the
middle of November, which is rather past the shooting season. Tlie
phenomena were in fact specially observable about April 2nd (Lord Y.'s
anniversary), February, after Mrs. P.'s death, July, and at least in 1771,
the beginning of August. It would appear from the Cheltenham case tliat
such things have a tendency to recur at anniversaries : we do not know the
day of the death of Isaac M., nor the date of any crime, if crime there were.
It may, however, be remarked that July was the montli of the death of
Mrs. Y. (Mary X.), a woman who may have been deeply wronged by the
rivalry of a younger sister.
Before, however, the dismissal of tlie other servants, and therefore
very soon after Lord Y.'s death, the first phenomenon occurred. The
groom Joseph saw in his room, by bright moonlight, a man in a drab
coat, whom he evidently took to be "his old master," i.e.. Lord Y.
It does not appear to have been very distinct, since the mark of identity
he specified was the way in which the hands were held : not much import-
ance for such a jDurpose can generally be assigned to such a thing, since
automatic tricks, such as movements of the hands, are particularly aff'ected
by heredity ; but in this case none of Lord Y.'s ancestors had ever inhal)ited
the house.
Among the dismissed servants was Isaac M., house steward. He is
sj)oken of as dishonest. If such dishonesty were, as indicated, notorious,
his impunity appears strange, and looks as if he had some hold over Lord Y.
The time of his death is not mentioned, but it must have been before or not
long after February, 1770, as his voice was heard and recognised by Robert
Camis, who entered Mrs. Ricketts's service at that time, and does not
appear to have lived in the house long after she left in August, 1771.
Camis's latest information is in November of that year. Henceforward
disturbances similar to those suffered by the Ricketts took place in the house.
1760. May 20th. Mrs. L. was created Lady Y. in her own right.
1764. August 21st. Mr. L. died. His widow, Lady Y., then tried to
let the house.
Same year. December. Thomas P. died, aged about 70, and was
lying dead in the house when it was taken by the Ricketts family.
1765. January. The Ricketts family entered into occupation, with
an entirely new set of servants, all strangers from London, and Mrs. P.
and Elizabeth B. left. Noises as of slamming doors were continually heard,
though no door was ever found open, and a new set of locks was fixed to
them but without any result. Same year. July. The gentleman in drab,
apparently the same seen by the groom Joseph about ten years before, and
believed by him to be Lord Y., was seen towards evening. Same year.
Autumn. The same figure was seen in the great hall, at night, l)y the
groom George Turner.
1767. July. A woman dressed in dark clothes which rustled, as though
of very stiff silk, was seen.
Occasional noises were afterwards heard, including groans and rustling.
1768. Lady Y. (Mary Y., Mrs. L.) married Lord H.
1769. End of the year. Mr. Ricketts went to Jamaica. -
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1893.
Mrs. Ricketts afterwards heard footsteps and the rustling of silk.
1770. February. The servants John and Anne Sparks left, and Robert
Camis and Elizabeth Godin came. Same year. Summer. Mrs. Ricketts
hears heavy men's footsteps in her room. Same year. August. Lewis
Chanson the Swiss left and Edward Russel came. Same year. November.
Mrs. Ricketts changed her room, and in the new one heard music, once
three heavy knocks, and afterwards, and in
1771. the beginning of the year, a frequent sound like the murmuring
wind throughout the house. Same year. February 26th. Mrs. P., who
had died a few days before, probably aged between 60 and 70, was buried
at H , and that night Elizabeth Godin, sleeping in the room which
the deceased had formerly occupied, heard much groaning and fluttering.
Same year. April 2nd. (Sixteenth anniversary of Lord Y.'s fatal
•seizure.) A variety of sounds, concluding with three heavy knocks, as
before (two separate accounts). After this the noises continued.
Same year. May 7th. Great accession of the disturbances hence-
forward. Same year, after Midsummer, the disturbances became much
worse. A woman and two men now often heard talking.
Mr. Jervis (afterwards Lord St. Vincent) came to stay with his sister.
The day after he left, the peculiar crash was heard, followed by piercing
shrieks, dying away as though sinking into the earth. The nurse, Hannah
Streeter, expresses a wish to hear more, and thenceforth is troubled every
night. Mr. Jervis returns, and with Captain Luttrell, and his own servant,
sits up night after night, &c., hearing the divers sounds, &c.
Mr. Jervis left before August 9th, and his sister and family very soon
after. Mrs. Ricketts seems to have once returned, first to the Camis's house,
and then to the manor-liouse, but there lieard a sound she had never heard
before, which caused her indescribable terror, and which she does not
describe. Same year. September. Lady H. sent her agent, Mr. Sainsbury,
to sit lip in tlie house. Whether he did so or not is not stated, and he can
hardly have done so more than one night.
A reward of £50, then £60, and finally £100 was offered for detection,
but with no result.
1772. Some time within a year the house was let to a family named
Lawrence, who endeavoured, by threatening the servants, to stifle their
statements. An apparition of a woman was said to have appeared once.
1773. In a year the Lawrences left suddenly.
The house was never again inhabited and was pulled down.
In the phenomena themselves there is not much that is very remarkable.
They consist mainly of percussive and explosive sounds, and bear generally
a very great resemblance to those which Fr. Hayden, S.J., heard at Ballechin,
wliicli he detailed to Mr. Huggins and myself, and of whicli I wrote an
account to Mr. Myers. It will be observed that the intelligences seemed
desirous to attract attention, as the phenomena became much more marked
when watched for by Mr. Jervis &c., and were very fully bestowed upon
Hannah Streeter, when she had expressed a wisli to hear them. They also
became very marked after the death of Mrs. P., as though the spirits were
disturbed by her,? haying joined tliem.
April, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 73
There seems to be little doubt, both from the dates, &c., and from the
groom Joseph's recognition, that the figure in drab was that of Lord Y.
Isaac M. , the dishonest house-steward, was also recognised by his voice
by Robert Camis.
Some of the phenomena which occurred in Mrs. P. 's room and elsewhere
on the night of her funeral, and subsequently, may be attributed to her^
but a phantom of another woman had been seen and heard for years before
her death. This phantom appeared to be dressed in rich silk, and moved
more quickly than a very old woman would naturally do. All the indications
seem to point to Honoria X., Lord Y.'s sister-in-lavY, who had pre-deceased
him, perhaps by only a few months.
Lucy Camis, who certainly knew a great many more facts than we do,
suggested that certain persons were suffering for their sins, and said that
God knew whether "she" had a child and killed it. No one is mentioned
to whom the pronoun " she " can refer except Honoria X., and the impu-
tation is that she had unlawful relations with her brother-in-law. Lord Y.
,
and that a crime was committed in which the old housekeeper, Mrs. P., and.
the dishonest steward, Isaac M., were accomplices.
It seems to be suggested that the skull which was found in a small box
under the floor of the lobby when the liouse was pulled down, was the head
of tlie child, and it is extremely suspicious that it was said to be a monkey's
(it being absolutely inexplicable that a monkey's skull should be buried in a
small box under the floor of a room), but that no inquiry was ever made, or
the object shown to a medical man.
It is consonant with this suspicion that the phenomena took j^lace chiefly
in and about the yellow room, where the crime may have been committed,
and the lobby, under the floor of which the head was found, where an
unhappy creature sank shrieking earthwards.
Ill a letter to Mr. Myera, Lord Bute adds : —
November 26th, 1892.
I think that you wiU observe that Mrs. Ricketts says in one place that
she conversed much with Dame Camis, and that the latter gave her much
information as to the X.'s and Y.'s ;
and, in another place that she (Mrs. R.)
could only account for the phenomena upon the hypothesis of an undiscovered
murder. My impression is that Dame Camis gave to Mrs. R., and
Mrs. R. believed, the explanation which I have indicated, but that
she felt her mouth shut by being practically unable to bring a terrible
accusation against the memories of the father and aunt of the then still
living Lady H., who, as she warmly acknowledges, had always treated her
with the utmost courtesy and consideration. This delicacy (which is only what
one would expect from Mrs. R.) also accounts for the reticence used
about the narrative, only two copies being made.
The theory suggested by Lord Bute as to the cause of the
" haunting " seems to me incompletely established for the foUowino-
reasons :
—
(1) The persons who Avere being discussed in the conversation
between Lucy Camis and Miss Jervis (see p. 67) were the old house-
74 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research. [April, 1893.
keeper, Mrs. P., and Elizabeth Godin. There is no positive evidence
that their remarks referred to a third person, Honoria X.
(2) The evidence that a crime was committed consists in tlie
discovery of a small skull, said to be that of a monkey, but which
may have l^een a child's, and the fact that Honoria X. lived in Lord Y.'s
house during the lifetime of her sister and also after her death, at
which time she was 52 years of age. The fact of the " haunting " does
not add to this evidence.
(3) The " haunting " does not appear to have been definitely
connected with any anniversary since it went on almost continuously
from April 2nd to the middle of August in one year, also in January,
February, " summer," July, " autumn," November and December of
other years. April 3rd was, according to one authoi"ity, the date of Lord
Y.'s death, while the seizure which ended in his death was said to have
taken place on April 2nd, but CoUins's Peerage gives the date of death
as April 13th, and it does not seem that the phenomena were more
pronounced on April 2nd than on many other days.
(4) The only evidence for connecting the apparitions that were seen
with the former inmates of the house is that, in one case out of the
four, the apparition was said to have some resemblance to Lord Y. Ed.
L. 951. A'l P" Apparition.
The following case was received from A. McDougall, Esq., F.C.S.,
of 17, Belmont-street, Southport.
Becewher 22nd, 1891.
I cannot give exact dates, but as near as I can now remember it was near
the end of October, 1870.
I had a very aflfectionate friend, Robert Broome, Esq., Burbage House,
near Buxton. My business and residence were in Manchester, but at that
time I gave up my business and went to reside at Penrith, in Cumberland.
I had a large farm at Castle Sowerby, about 9 miles from Penrith. I drove to
this twice each week. I left Penrith at 7 a.m. , and generally returned at 6 p.m.
On an occasion to which I wish to refer I remained later at the farm, as the
liarvest had been finished, and I stopped to take supper with the labourers.
It was a temperance supper, as I was an abstainer. I left the farm alone
about 11 o'clock, driving a gig with a very steady horse. It was a cloudy
alight but moonlight.
I met no one on the road till I came to the Greystoke pillar, about a
mile from Penrith. There, driving slowly as I was about to turn into a
narrow lane, I was deeply shadowed from behind, and upon looking back
to see what caused the shadow I saw my friend Broome, bending over me
with an expression of the most tender affection upon his countenance. I
.spoke to him, pulled up the horse, and alighted. I walked round the gig,
called him by name, begged him not to play tricks at midnight, but to come to
April, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 75
me and come home with me. I had, of course, to go without him. At home
I inquired if Mr. Broome had called. The answer was. No. I then told my
wife that I had seen him near the Greystoke pillar, that he must be in the
town, and would be sure to call in the morning.
Three days passed, when we received intelligence that Mr. Broome was
[dead], and strange to tell he had died at the very hour at midnight at which
I had seen him near the Greystoke pillar.
A. McDouGALL, F. C. S.
This is the only experience I have ever had.
In answer to our request that Mrs. McDougall would give her
recollections of the incident in corroboration of it, Mr. McDougall
wrote :
—
17, Belmont-street, Southport, March. 14#/(, 1892.
My ^vife remembers perfectly my informing lier of the appearance of my
friend Mr. Broome, and our expecting him to call, as well as our inquiry
for him in the town.
The fact has been so frequently referred to in conversation that she
smiles at the question of her remembrance, but she refuses to write any-
thing which might appear in print on the subject. It is, however, the most
remarkable and mysterious circumstance which has ever occurred to us.
The experience I had was very distinct and memorable, but I have not
Jaad any other. A. McDougall.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the February Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
2viU be gratefully received.
B G 56. Visual. —Mr. J. M. Goold Adams, staying at his father's house,
CO. Cork, goes downstairs in the night to lind boots, and through glass door
sees kitchen lighted up and three monks seated round tire. He retreats in
haste. House was adjacent to ruins of Abbey. Date uncertain, but earlier
than 1877. Recorded, 1888.
B G 57. Transitional (or L) Visual. 3rd hand, good as 2nd. —Mrs. Beau-
mont heard her parents relate that their parents lay dying in adjoining
rooms. The mother died, and her death was kept secret from the father. An
hour after her death he remarked that he was glad she was getting so much
better, for she had been sitting by his bed for nearly an hour. Date, when
Mrs. B. was about 10. Recorded 1886.
B G 58. Collective Apparition. Sent by Mr. C. H. Bowman. —Mrs.
G. and her three brothers and sister, when children, used every evening to
see an apparition of a lady in a stiff brocade skirt, whicli rustled as she
moved, pass through the garret where they played. She was always seen
by all present and had also been seen by two ladies next door. The two
houses had originally communicated through the garret. Other witnesses
now dead, and no more evidence attainable. Date, 1846-1852. Date of
record, 1891.
B G 59. Visual. Fixed local. —Miss S. Moore (daughter of the late
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea/ixli.. [Apeil, 1893.
General Moore) walking back horn church by footpath along cliff sees a
beautiful woman in blue bathing dress. She meets, passes, and watches the
figure walk out of sight. The figure is transparent—grass is visible through
it. Miss M. hears that a " light lady " has been seen by others in the same
neighbourhood. Date not sfcited. Recorded December, 1888.
B G 60. Mrs. Ellicott (wife of Bishop of Gloucester) hears noises con-
stantly in room overhead. Once hears terrific noise apparently in drawing-
room, like the five windows being violently opened and closed and heavy
bookcase falling. Governess sees motions in curtains as if by fingers
behind. Violent noises in kitclien, and on kitchen table. The house
(Glaston House, near Uppingham, Rutland) has no ghostly history. Date
not given. Recorded October, 1888.
B G 01. Visual. —Private letters giving 3rd hand information about
ghosts at Glenlee.
B G 62. Fixed local. Collective. Visual.—Mr. Edmund Wilson, of
Leeds, and two others see man sitting on gate in open country who mys-
teriously disappears as they approach. They hear afterwards that a man
was once hanged close by, and that his ghost is said to sit on that gate. No
confirmation. Recorded, February, 1888. Date " 4 or 5 years ago."
B G 63. Through Mr. E. Westlake.—Mrs. Fry and other members of
family hear unaccountable noises in their house at Darlington, especially
billiard balls canuunum when no one is playing. No confirmation. Ex-
periences since 1886. Recorded February, 1888.
B G 64. Dream. —Mr. Charles H. Kallensee, Sladebridge, Cornwall,
dreams he goes to house in Plymouth and is told of death of relative and
shown coflin. Day after dream he reads announcement in newspaper of the
death at Plymouth. He goes to Plymouth, where all the events of his
dream are realised. Relative died about 24 hours before dream. Mr. K.
had not heard of her for several years. Confirmed. Date, November, 1879.
Recorded December, 1885.
B G 65. Motive. —Third-hand account of ghost indicating where papers
are buried. Copied through kindness of Lady Isham from manuscripts
preserved in her family and dated 1674.
B G 66. Second-hand. Fixed local. Througli Lady Harrington. —Mr.
and Mrs. X., staying in old family house, hear footsteps about house at
night, but no one is to be seen. Servants tlireaten to leave. Butler and
clerk are put to watch with pistols. These two see figure of old-fashioned
gentleman, and they fire without eff"ect. Butler afterwards recognises ghost
as grandfather of Mr. X. from portrait accidentally seen. Later, household
is awakened by prolonged and piercing shrieks, which die away in one of the
stalls of the stable. Next day news comes that aunt of Mr. X. had died
previous day in lunatic asylum. It transpired that this aunt had lost her
reason through illtreatment : her father (the above ghost) surprised secret
meeting with a forbidden lover ; he beat her, dragged her to stables, and
flung her in one of the stalls, where she became hysterical and lost her reason.
After her death disturbances ceased. Narrated November, 1888. Date,
"about 40 years ago."
B G 67. Borderland. —Miss Enmia Maria Pearson, when a little girl,
woke and saw evil face at window and hand offering letter. She rose to take
letter, but fainted before she could do so. Learnt some years afterwards
that tradition existed about abbess being drowned by remote ancestors of
her family ; she died predicting deaths by drowning for descendants of the
family, and threatening that she would ajspear to each generation until the
proffered letter was accepted. Several members of tlie family //ore since
been drowned. Experience, 1836. Recorded about 1888.
No. C—Vol. VI. •
May, IS!)?.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates
Meeting of tlie Coniioil
General Meeting
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time
Cases received by the Literarj- Committee
Correspondenr-c' ;
—
The late Mr. S. J. Davey's Experiments
Hypnotism as a therapeutic agent
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
TS
7S
79
82
80
nil
91
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
BouROET, Paul, 7, Rue de Monsieur, Paris.
Hunter, Thomas, Arnold House, Rugby.
Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Speer, Mrs. Stanhope, Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Stainforth, Mlss Emily, 15, Matheson-road, West Kensington, W.
ASSOCIATES.
Champnes.s, Alfred, Sedbergh, Yorks.
Colt, Frederick E., 9, Old-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Crossley, Mrs. C. R., 103, Gloucester-place, Portman-square, London, W.
Isaachse\, Rev. Thorveld E., 44, Boompjes, Rotterdam.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, 17, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
SCRIPPS, T. Cecil, Adelphi Chambers, London, W.C.
Thompson, Rev. Joseph L., Mabaica, E.G. Demerara, British Guiana,
South America.
Tweedie, David M., Adelaide.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ASSOCIATES.
Cheesman, Dr. W. S., 22, William-street, Auburn, New York, U.S.A.
Clough, Albert L., Manchester, N.H., U.S.A.
Crothers, Dr. T. D., YValnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Dawbarn, Robert H. M., M.D., 105, W. 74th-st., New York City,U.S.A.
Dike, Miss Florence B., 207, W. 57th-street, New York City, U.S.A.
Griffin, Rev, R, A., Columbus-avenue, Northampton, Mass., U.S.A.
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1803.
JoHXSOX, Professor Roger B., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Richardson, Mrs. Abby S., 256, W. lOOth-st., New York City, U.S.A.
Waters, Miss Jean, 360, First-street, Elniira, New York, U.S.A.
Waters, Miss Mabel, 360, First-street, Ehnira, New York, U.S.A.
Yates, W., 2937, Indiana-avenue, Chicago, Ilk, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on April 2 1st. The Chair was
taken at the commencement l)y Mr. R. Pearsall Smith, and subse-
quently by Professor Sidgwick. There were also j^resent. Col. Hartley
and Messrs. W. Leaf, F. W. H. JMyers, and F. Podmore.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Six new Members and eight new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of twelve new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
The Council regret to record the death of Mr. J. Addington
Symonds, a distinguished Associate of the Society.
At the request of Mrs. Napier Campbell her name was transferred
from the list of Associates to that of Members.
It was resolved that in addition to the General Meeting already
arranged for June 2nd, one should be held on Friday, July 14th, at
4 p.m.
Various other matters having been attended to, the Council agreed
that its next meeting should be on Friday, June 2nd, at 19, Buckingham-
street, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 58th General Meeting of the Society was held on Friday,
April 21st, at the Westminster Town Hall, Professor Sidgwick in
the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a paper on the "Psychology of
Hysteria," which is intended to appear in the next Part of the
Proceedings, in June. He explained that his object was first to
connect the various phenomena of hysteria, in so far as they fell under
the domain of psychology, under a hypothesis which should include all
their varieties ; and secondly to show how this hypothesis itself
confirmed and was confirmed by the general view of human personality
which the speaker had already endeavoured to set forth. As the
argument was a complex one, and the paper is intended so soon to
appear in full, further account is reserved.
May, 1893.] Joiirnal of Society for PsycJiical Research. 79
Mr. F. Podmore then read a paper giving some account of the
observations made l)y Professor Richet, Professor Schiaparelli and
others on certain phenomena occurring in the presence of Mme.
Eusapia Paladino, of Milan, and recorded in the Jan. -Feb. number
of the Annates des Sciences Psychiques. The phenomena included the
lifting of a table from the ground, the alteration of Mme. Paladino's
weight in the balance, the appearance of hands, etc.
Lady Elizabeth Biddulpii inquired whether anyone present had
observed that movements of the air, as of singing, itc, furthered the
production of phenomena such as those obtained in the presence of
Eusapia.
Mr. Podmore replied that this experiment had not been tried by
Professor Richet and his collaborators with Eusapia. He was not able
to say how far it had been successful in other cases.
Mr. Pearsall Smith referred to the hypothesis that some of the
alleged phenomena of Spiritualism were due to hallucination, and asked
Dr. Bramwell if he would describe to the meeting some of his experi-
ments bearing upon this question.
Dr. Bramwell described an occasion when he had given to a num-
lier of persons at once a collective hallucination of a type which at a
seance might have been thought due to spiritual agency.
SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE LAPSE OF TIME.
I.
The following experiments in waking at fixed times were made
by Mr. P. Macleod Yearsley, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., an Ass-)ciate of the
Society.
Mr. Yearsley writes :
—
45, George-street, Portman-square, W. Decemher loth, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I send you some experiments in the subliminal consciousness
of lapse of time. I experimented every night, as you will see, with one
exception, from October 16th to November 3rd, with variable success. As I
seemed to so repeatedly fail towards the end of the time, I abandoned all
experiments until the anxiety of certain work I was engaged in was at an end
.
I have now recommenced, and will give you a further account at some future
date. The following is the record :
—
Date, 1892. Retired Set to wake Awoke at
October 16 11.30 5.30 Failed.
17 11.0 5.30 5.25
18 11.30 5.30 Failed.
19 12.0 5.30 5.0
20 10.0 6.0 5.25. 7.0
so Joitrmd of Society for F.^ychical Remivch. [May, isiin.
Date, 1802. Retired Set to wake
October 22 ... ... 11.30 (i.O
23 ... ... 12.30 5.0
24 ... ... 10.30 5.30
25 ... ... 11.45 5.0
26 ... ... 12.15 6.0
27 ... ... 11.30 3.0
28 ... No experiment.
29 ... ... 10.45 4.0
30 ... ... 11.45
O A
O. 0
31 ... ... 10.30 3.0
November 1 ... ... 11.0 3.0
2 ... 12.0 3.0
3 ... ... 11.30 3.30
Awoke at
6.0
6.0
5.20
5.45
Failed.
5.40
Failed.
Failed.
Failed.
Failed.
5.45
Failed.
I also made the following additional Notes : -October 17th.—Awoke at
5.25 with sudden start and impression that I had some reason for awaking.
October 18th.—Failure to wake attributed to my going to bed so tired that
I could not fix my mind upon the time set sufficiently to make an impression.
October 19th.—Wlien deciding the hour at which I should wake, I wavered
between 5.0 and 5.30, finally fixing 5.30. October 20th.-Awoke at 5.25
with an uneasy sense of liaving to wake at a fixed time.
As regards myself, I am a young man, in robust health and in practice as
a surgeon. I usually sleep soundly, but am accustomed to wake as a rule
about 7.30, between that and 8.0 being my usual hour for rising.
P. Macleod Yeaksley.
Mr. Yearsley made a second series of experiments about a month
later, Avhich are printed below. With regard to these, he says :—
Chalk Hill House, Kingsbury, Neasden, N.W. February 10th, 1893.
Deak Siu,-^I send you the record of another month's experiments as to
the subliminal consciousness of lapse of time. You will see that they were
mostly unsuccessful, even more so than the record sent you last year.
I find I can nearly always wake when I have some special reason for
doing so. Perhaps the reason for my want of success lies in the fact that for
the past two months I have had considerable wcjrry and anxiety.
P. Macleod Yearsley.
Set to awake Awoke at Remarks.
6.0 ... 7.30
6.30
1.30, 3.0, 5.45
7.30
Date, 1892.
December 5
6 .
7 ,
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
Retired at
. 11.0 ...
. 11.0 ...
. 11.15 ...
12.0
10.45
11.5
12.0
11.0
10.30
10.45
11,0
6.0
6.0
6.0
6.0
6.0
6.0
6.0
5.0
5.0
5.45
Failed.
6.30
6.45
7.30
7.30
Failed,
May, isdo.] Juitnial of Society for Ptsijchieat Uesearch. 81
Date, 1892. Retired at Set to awake'
Awoke at
Dec. 16 to 20 did not experiment.
1 ?
21 ... 11.45 ... 5.0 ... 7.0
5 1
'
22 ... 12.45 ... H.O ... 6.30
23 ... 12.15 ... 6.0 ... 6.0
24 ... l.U ... 6.0 ... 7.0
) )
25 ... Did not experiment.
26 ... 12.0 ... 7.0 ... 7.0
5 »
27 ... 10.0 ... 6.0 ... 6.30
? »
28 ... 11.0 ... 3.0 ... 2.45, 4.0
29 ... 12.30 ... 5.0 ... 3.0, 6.0
>>
30 ... 9.45 ... 6.30 ... 6.0
31 ... 10.0 ... 4.0 ... 6.30
1S!J3.
January 1 . .
.
10.30 ... 2.0 ... 1.30, 5.0, 6.0
2 11.45 ... 3.0 ... Failed.
3 ..., 12.0 ... 6.0 ... 7.30
1
)
4 .... 11.0 .... 4.0 ... 4.15
•> 5
5 ..., 3.0 a.m. 6.0 ... 5.30, 6.30
Remarks.
[wakini;'.
Had special reason for
Each experiment was, when .succe.s.sful, vcrihed by my watch on the
table beside my bed.
II.
From Mr. Hodgson.
Noveruber ISth, 1892.
The following is a record of a short series of experiments made by a young
friend of mine, Edith P., about twelve years old. She was in the habit of
waking about 7 a.m., and the record was made in connection with her
attempts to change her hour of waking to 6 a.m. —R.H.
October 18th, 1892. —Last night I said to myself, I will try to wake at
six o'clock to-morrow morning. I was sleeping very soundly and heavily.
Suddenly I stopped sleeping, as if a shock had happened to me. As soon
as I could get my eyes open, I looked at my watch, and it was less than a
minute after six.
October 18th. —I set myself to wake to-morrow morning at six.
October 19th. —Woke at one minute before six. -
[E. P.]
Oct. 19th, determined to wake at 6.30 a.m. Oct. 20th, woke at 6.15.*
Oct. 20th, ,, ,, 6.0 a.m. Oct. 21st, ,, 6.
Oct. 21st, ,, ,, 6.0 a.m. Oct. 22nd, ,, ;^ before 6.
Oct. 22nd, ,, ,, 6.0 a.m. Oct. 23rd, ,, 5.30.
Oct. 23rd, ,, 6.0 a.m. Oct. 24th, ,, ^- to 6.
The table for the last four days was made out on October 20th, and the
record of time of waking filled in immediately after waking.
* [Note by Mr6. P.] At iirst Edith decided on October l!)th tu wake at 0,15, but I
thought it better to saj' 0..30, ab she had hurt her knee and went to bed unusually tired.
She yielded at the last moment and wrote i.i.30, but waked preci-sely at time first
thought of.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1893.
III.
Ill connection with the above, we may quote two recent instances
of the post-hypnotic nieasui'ement of time, like those recorded by
Professor Delboeuf, in his paper in Proceedings, Part XXIII., p, 414,
The first is an experiment of Professor Krafft-Ebing's, of which an
account is given in the Hevtoe de VHypnotisme for March, 189.3, p. 264.
Professor Krafffc-Ebing told a hypnotised patient, whom he had cured of
severe hysteria, that next day she would enter the ward at ten minutes to
live, and at fiva precisely would have a slight hysterical fit—the last which
she would ever have —which would he at once cured by hypnotic jjasses.
The patient entered at the time indicated. No one knew of the sugges-
tion which had been made. At six minutes past five by the clock in the
ward the attack came on, and was relieved as had been predicted.
The patient had no watch. It was afterwards discovered that the clock
in the ward was six min.ii.tcs fast. The fit had come on at the real time
ordered, although the only visible timepiece marked the wrong time.
The next is described in a letter from Mr. Edwin T. Garner, an
Associate of the S.P.R., to Mr. Myers.
Mr. Garner writes :
Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhurst, )Surrey. Febfuanj 12th, 1893.
* -x- * * * •it-
Concerning Professor Delb'euf's paper, " Dc ra])preciatiou du temjjs
par les soniuambules," you may like to 1<U(.)W that during tlio past week
a suggestion I made to a subject to be carried out IMJU minutes froin the
time of the suggestion was enacted 22 minutes after the time suggested.
The subject was to have written an account of how she felt and iHnj she
was writing, and here is an extract from her brief descrijjtio}! :
" I am in a most perfect state of health and /cci quite well. ... I
am writing this because I can't help myself. I feel as if I must do it. I am
not really doing it with my own mind ; that is qnite tjone ; yet I must do it."
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The three cases that follow are all instances of a veridical impres-
sion with regard to the death of a friend or relative reaching the
percipient some time after the death has occurred, but before the fact
has become known to him by ordinary means. Cases of this kind do
not afibrd such strong evidence of telepathy as impressions occurring
at the time of death, because the period of time between the death and
the arrival of tlie news being conqaaratively long, affords greater scope
for the o]5eration of cliance coincidence ; hut wc print these because
there is clear evidence in all of them that the iidrcipient described his
impression in writing befiu'c he recei\ ('(l the news of the death.
May, 1S93.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
G. 234. Dream.
From Mr. Myers.
The following case has been kindly sent to me by the Rev. George
WilHams, of Trefonen Rectory, Oswestry, with whom I am personally
acquainted. It will be seen that we have here a letter which was
written in consequence of a dream of death, before the fact of death
was known. The dream, which is of a funeral, falls between the
actual death and funeral. The letter is written after the news of
illness, but before the news of death.
—
F. W. H. M.
Mr. Williams writes under date September •22nd, 1892 :
—
" This morning, in going round my parishioners, I was asked to read the
accompanying letter. The mother of the writer of it died on August 29tli,
and was buried on September 2nd."
The letter, now in Mr. Myers' possession, is addressed" Mrs. Thomas
H.Stokes, Underbill, Trefonen, Oswestry, England" ;
and bears the post-
marks "Red Bluff, Sep. 8, 1892," and "Oswestry, Sep. 21, 1892." It
is dated "Red Bluff, Cahfornia, September 6, 1892," and runs as
follows :
—
" Dear Lizzie,—I wrote to dear mother yesterday and posted it this morn-
ing, and since then I received yours of Aug. 22nd, saying that she is very ill.
I was afraid there was something the matter, as on the night of Aug. 31st,
or the morning of Sept. 1st, I dreamed I was in a house where there
was a funeral going on. Everybody was dressed in black, and I saw you all
there except mother, and father told me that she was dead, and that it was
her funeral that was then in process of being carried out ;
and I have not
been able to shake off the sad feeling it caused me since. If dear mother is
still alive, tell her, &c. [private matters follow]. Please write at your
earliest, as I am naturally anxious to hear about her.
Your aff. brother, John V. Owen."
Mr. Williams encloses a memorial card which states that Margaret,
widow of John Owen, of Great Weston, Cluirchstoke, Montgomeryshire,
died at Underbill, Trefonen, August 29th, 1892, aged 80 years, and
was interred at Churchstoke September 2nd, and a copy of the Ostvestry
Advertiser to the same effect. He adds :
" The late Mrs. Owen wrote
regularly to her son John once a month, and heard from him about as
often. Mr. John Owen's father and uKjther were first cousins. The
father died 16 years ago. The son had not seen his mother for 12 years.
The only cause for anxiety would be Mrs. Owen's great age, 80
years. He never had written home before in consequence of a dream.
—
The fuueral took place at Churchstoke on the morning of September
2nd. It had been intended for Scpt(;mber 1st."
Mr. AVilliams sends also JMr. .John V. Owen's letter t(j his mother
dated September 5th, 1892, which Ijegins, "I received your July
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1893.
letter two days ago." It deals with oixlinary matters and does not ex-
press anxiety as to his UKjther's health. Mrs. Owen's letter had
followed him about, and had thus been delayed.
Ct. 2.35. Dream.
We obtained this case through Mr. J. h>. Netherton, of Farnham
Arms, Cavan, Ireland, to whom we wrote upon learning from Mr. W.
T. Stead that he had some information to sfive. Mr. Netherton in his
tui'n put his friend Mr. W. Groom, of the Commercial Hotel, Strabane,
Ireland, in connnunication with us. Mr. Groom writes :
Jannarii lUh, 1892.
A friend of mine, Mr. J. S. Netherton, has written me with reference to
a letter received from Australia, which he asks me to forwaixl to you. I do
not know whether you have the particulars, but in case you haven't, I give
them here. The writer of the letter was an old schoolmate of my own, and
more particularly of my brother, and spent most of his evenings in our house.
Not getting along as well as he wished, he took a situation in Armagh, and
after a year or two passed out of our immediate notice, no letters pasising
lietween us. We hoard nothing for years until the enclosed letter came from
Australia addressed to my In-otlier. My brother died on the 8th January,
1891, and at the time he died, and for years before, knew nothing of Mr.
Little, and did not know lie was in Melbourne. The descrijjtion in the letter
is quite cijrrect of the death. I liave six sisters, but my mother, self, and
two sisters mentioned were the only ones in the room when he died. The
letter caused a good deal of surprise amongst <jur intimate friends.
(Signed) W. Ckoom.
The letter referred to is addressed to "Mr. James Groom, 7,
Nicholson-terraee, Londonderry, Ireland," and the postmark on the
envelope is J/elbour-nc, A}?. lu.'Jl. The letter itself is dated "Melbourn(',
April loth," and begins :
"Dear Dubosc, —No doubt you will be surprised at getting a letter from
me from this part of the globe. . .
." [Then follows a long account of
tlie writer's reasons for leaving Armagh, a description of the voyage out
to Melbourne, and of his movements and prospects at that place. The letter
concludes as follows :
]
" So good-bye, Dubosc, until we meet, but I am afraid never, as I thought
I saw you dead, as I had a dream one night and saw you stretclied out on a
bed all dressed in white, and your mother, Jessie, Willie and Mary all
standing round you crying. I do not believe in superstition, but I saw the
picture before my eyes, as plain as I see the paper I am writing on ; but of
course it was only a dream and a fancy of the mind recalling old associations.
" Your old chum,
(Signed) " Wm. Little."
It will bo seen that Mr. Little names correctly the people who were
In the room at the time of the death of Mr. James Groom [Dubosc],
M.vv, is;)3.] JuLornal of Sucietij for PsycJdcaL Research. 85
as shown by the brother's letter. But in writing to us hiter, in answer
to our inquiries, Mr. Little adds the rest of the family to the group
—
which may possibly Ije due to an illusion of memory. Writing from
Australia on the 29th of March, 1892, he says :
—
I remember the dream pretty well, altht)ugli it was about a year ago.
I also remember as well as I can, but I would not say certain, as to the
Ijrecise date (whereas if I had taken a thought I would have done so), but as
far as I bring to memory it was about beginning of February, in or about
first five days of the month, and as I did not attach much importance to it,
I did not speak of it to anybody whatever.
I remember the dream was as vividly before my senses as possible, and
is as follows. I could see him lying in bed, with his mother and sisters,
Jessie, Bella, Nelly, and the rest, around the bed, looking at him anxiously,
and I believe his brother in my vision was there also. I saw the picture so
placed on my mind that nothing effaces it ofi' it, and I thought from the
anxious expression on their faces that ho wa ; sick (as he was pretty often
laid up) and had a worse than usual attack of asthma, but something
prompted when writing the letter to him to mention tlie occui'rence —casually
—not thinking for a single moment that death had done its work. And I
made the remark aljout this, as something was ijrouipting to make the remark,
about never seeing him again. I could not tell what inttueiice made me do
so, but I could not shake it off—writing it to him, the living man, as I
thought, and not a dead one. (Signed) Wm. Little.
If Mr. Little's memory as to the date of the dream is approximately
correct, it occurred about a nmnth after the death. Between the
dream and his letter describing it an account of the death reached
Australia from Mr. Little's li(nne, but this account did not come into
his hands until four days after his letter was posted to the dead man.
The cause of this delay was that Mr. Little did not call at the address
to which his letters were to be sent, and he sends us the following note
to make this clear.
WiUiamstowu, April ISth, 1891.
Dear Willie, —Please to call for letters, papers and portraits that is
lying at our place the last 3 weeks ; was t(jld that you had left the tram, or
I would have sent you word before. —Your aftectionatc cousin,
(Signed) Annie Linuley.
Amongst these letters, which Mr. Little says he obtained on the
next day (19th), was the one from his mother announcing the death ;
he encloses the envelope, which bears postmarks, " Londonderry Feb.
19.91—Melbourne, MR 25.91."
G. 236. Dream.
From My Canadian Juurncil, by tlic Marchioness of Dufl'crili. 1891.
(p. 82.) Monday, oUth [.June, 187u]. . . . We were just going to
begin lisliing again. « hen an Indian canoe arri\ ed Ininging us very sad news.
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1893.
One of our footmen had gone out fishing and was drowned. We returned
immediately. We saw the place where the accident happened ; on the rocks
lay a piece of bread he had been eating. He had got up and stood at the
edge of the water with his rod. The steward said, " Can you swim ? " "No."
"Then take care, for it is slijipery, and the water is very deep." "Never
fear," he said, and instantly slipped. He put up his hands to take off the
mosquito veil he Iiad on, and disappeared. The steward dived after him,
but he never rose at all. A boat was got, and presently the men saw the
tliick end of a fishing-rod sticking up. They took hold of it, and lifted the
poor dead body up with it. He appeared to be upright in the water, the
rod fast in his hand.
(p. 88.) Friday, 11th [July, 1873]. You remember that I told you that
a poor manservant of ours was drowned at the Mingan. As we knew nothing
about his people, we were unable to communicate the news of his death to
tliem, so D. ordered any letters that might arrive for him to be brought to
himself. Tlie first of these—which we have just received—was from a
servant-girl he was attached to at Ottawa, and was dated exactly seven days
after the day of the accident. In it she said :
" I have been in my new place
a week, and T like it very much, but I had such a dreadful dream on the day
of my arrival. I dreamt that you and Nowell were upset in a boat together,
and that Nowell was saved, but you were drowned." As the spot where the
accident occurred is in an uninhal)itod region on the coast of Labrador, more
tlian 500 miles from Ottawa, witliout either telegraphs or jjosts, it was
impossible that she should have had tlie news of her lover's death when this
letter was written.
CORRESPONDEN CE.
THE LATE mi. S. J. DAVEy's EXPERIMENTS.
To tin: Editor of the Jouknal of the Hociety von Psy'chical Eeseaisch.
Sii!,— In the last number of your Jovnial Mr. Wallace gives his experi-
ence of slate-writing, in which he endeavours to show that he took such
precautions as to make it impossible he could have been deceived by sleight
of hand ; but Mr. Hodgson, in reviewing Mr. Wallace's statements, says, p. 47 :
"Mr. Wallace's statements must be regarded as probably misdescriptions,
and as practically worthless for proving any supernormal jjlienomena."
Now, as Mr. Wallace has all his life devoted himself, and with most signal
success, to the close observation of nature, it must surely strike most think-
ing minds that Mr. Hodgson cannot be justified in his expressions of contempt
regarding Mr. Wallace's powers of observation regarding an occult pheno-
menon with which from long expeiience he is very familiar.
Further, if Mr. Hodgson considers himself justified in thus expressing
himself regarding the mental capabilities of so distinguished a man of science
;is Mr. Wallace, it seems useless for me to l)reak a lance with In'm on the
})oint of occult slate- writing ;
ne\-crt]icless, as Mr. Wallace in liis paper
lio[ies that " other Spiritualists may now make knmvn their ex|ievieuces of
slate- writing [ilieuomena," I venture to give one i.>f my experiences ;
for.
May, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
although I have had many to myself absolutely convincing experiences,
yet I now confine myself to one experience, namely, the experience which
un one occasion I had with Slade and the one which I gave in the police-
court when I appeared in defence of that medium against the attack of Dr.
Lankester, in 1877. But as Mr. Hodgson might say that my memory could
not be altogether reliable after so long an interval, I will state my case as
given on p. 22 in my book Tlieusophtj and the Hkjlm Life, published 1880.
I there say : "I took one out of many slates lying on a table before me.
Having taken this slate in hand I tuovld not permit Slade to touch it. I ex-
amined it for a considerable time on both sides. It was a dry, dusty, new
school slate, without the slightest trace of writing on its surface. I then
took a small fragment of slate pencil and laid it on the table and covered it
with my slate. I then seized both of Slade's legs between mine, and both
his hands in mine, and having rested my elbow on the slate, I said to Slade,
'I am ready, now write.' Instantly I heard a sound as of rapid, energetic
writing, with a slate pencil, and then tliree raps to indicate the message was
finished. I released Slade's hands, and carefully raising the slate from the
table, I found a message clearly written in strong dtidij slate writing, com-
posed of about twenty words and containing five of my family names, viz. ,
a
message urging two of my sceptical brothers to investigate the subject.'
I added that tlie table on the top of which the slate rested was a solid,
hard wood table, and that physical access to the under surface of my slate
was impossible. I added that I was not more certain of my existence than I
was that the writing I got could not possibly have come through liuman
hands ; and I now add that the experiment was in broad daylight, no one
being present but myself and Slade.
I cannot conceive that Mr. Hodgson can have any answer to tliis demon-
stration of occult slate-Avriting excejit by saying that either intentionally or
unintentionally I am stating an untruth. But should he make this answer,
I could only reply that in that case lie is altogether unfit to sit in judgment
on the matter. Geoiige Wyld, M.D.
Fieldliead, Wimbledon Park, Surrey.
3Iarch 10th, 1893.
To tlie Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —I shall be glad if you can afibrd me space for a few observations on
Mr. Hodgson's letter in reply to that of Mr. Wallace in this month's /onnioZ.
Mr. Hodgson says: "The chief object of the investigation with Mr.
Davey was to estimate the true worth of testimony to ' psychographic '
and
similar performances." "Investigation," sir ! Can that be called an "investi-
gation " to which none are admitted except such as regard the thing to be
investigated from one particular point of view only ?
In Februa,ry, 1887, I wrote in the Journal, proposing that Mr. Davey
should perform liis feats "in the presence .of some well-known Spiritualists,"
and I believe a similar proposal was made by others about the. same time.
This proposal, however, Mr. Hodgson thought it prudent to decline, fearing,
as he said in the Frornedimjs of May, 1887, "that the psychical condition of
8(S Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, i8"j3.
Spiritualists might be i\ bar to Mr. Davey's performances " 1 This excuse, I
may observe by the way, seems to Irave been forgotten by Mr. Hodgson in
1892. In the Proceedings publislied in July of that year (p. 254) he
informs us that "the only argument which had special cogency in his own '
case" (i.e., for not allowing the presence of Spiritualists at Mr. Davey's
seances) "was Mr. Davey's purpose to give another series of sittings."
Tluis Mr. Hodgson's account of the matter in 1892 when Mr. Davey was
dead is altogether inconsistent with that wliich he gave in 1887 when Mr.
Davey was alive.
Well, sir, when in 1887 I found that Mr. Hodgson declined on the plea
of "psychical conditions " an investigation in Mr. ^Davey's presence at which
both sides should be represented, I proposed that Mr. Lewis (Professor
Hoffman), who was an "expert" and a "quasi-professional" conjurer, and
who had had a quarter of a century's experience in the art, should undertake
to perform the feats in question. Mr. Davey had taken him as well as Mr.
Hodgson into his confidence and had explained to him how the tricks were
done. As a skilful prestidigitateur, and as one who had been let into the
secrets of the modus operandi, he would, I supposed, be able to perform such
feats as are jjerformed by the so-called mediums, male and female. This
prcjposal, however, was simply ignored by Mr. Hodgson, though surely not
because he was afraid of the "psychical conditions " in the case of Mr. Lewis
also. And now he gravely reminds us of an " investigation " !
Mr. Hodgson tells us in the Proceed lugs (P-M-t XL, p. 403) that the highest
" class of conjuring consists in inducing the witness to entrap himself ;
that the
conjurer is like a clever thief who while posing as a detective manages to
empty your pockets." Now, sir, if I may adapt Mr. Hodgson's method of
meeting Mr. Wallace's statements, or rather the statements of every witness
on the Spiritualists' side, I will say, "hi spite of Mr. Hodgson's belief to
the contrary," Mr. Davey may have acted the part of the clever thief in his
transactions with him, and may have very thoroughly emptied his pockets.
" It is possible" tliat Mr. Davey did not write with a thimble pencil as Mr.
Hodgson says he did (Part XXII., p. 2.56), but that he only pretended to do
what had already been done by psychical force. "It is possible " tliat Mr.
Davey did not substitute a slate which had already been written upon, as Mr.
Hodgson says he did (tliid.), for another on which the sitter expected the
writing, but simply pretended to do so in order to empty one of Mr.
Hodgson's pockets. "It is possible" that in the case of the two locked
slates spoken of Mr. Davey did not open one, write the answer on it, and
then substitute it for the other, as Mr. Hodgson says he did (ibid.), but that
he only pretended to do so in order to empty another of Mr. Hodgson's
pockets. Indeed, I cannot help thinking that Mr. Hodgson's jnethod is
peculiarly applicable to his own evidence. We perceive a sort of grim
justice in the turn of aflairs when, in the case of a man who has made the
most frantic efforts to prove all that differ from him fools, we discover that
in the very midst of those eflbrts, and even by means of them, he himself is
being made a fool of.
But even if we grant that Mr. Davey performed all his feats )jy simple con-
juring and tluit the so-called mediums iierforiii theirs by tlie same means, will
^[AY, 1S.13.] JoLinial of Society for P.^ijchical Re>^eavcli. 80
Mr. Hodgson be one whit nearer the end of his difficulties ? Those so-called
mediums have been invariably, I believe, comparatively young men or
women, and it does not seem that any attempt has been made to show that
they had practised conjuring, or acjuired any skill in it at all, previous to
their mediumistic career. Now, Mr. Hodgson will not, I suppose, deny that
the feats done in their presence require at least the very greatest conjuring
skill for their performance, so very great, indeed, that ordinary conjurers can-
not do them even after they have had the modn, operandi pointed out to
them. This conclusion is, I think, inevitable from the fact that Mr. Hodgson
and Professor Hoffman declined my proposal. I should be glad, therefore,
to be permitted to ask the two following questions
1. What is the explanation of the fact that those young men and women
are possessed of such extraordinary skill and adroitness ?
2. How is it that even " experts " who have been let into the secrets, and
who have had an experience in conjuring longer than the lives of some of the
so-called mediums, will not even attempt to perform the feats which are
done by those who, as far as we know, have had no experience m conjuring
I p;-Gsume Mr. Hodgson will consider himself liound to answer these two
questions.
[As we do not propose to give space in future numbers of the Jininial for
farther discussion on this matter, we will ourselves answer the questions put
by Mr. Harpur to Mr. Hodgson.
1. There is no reason to think that youth interferes with skill in conj ur-
ines, and mediums are by no means as a rule young men or women (t-.;/.,
Eglinton and Slade), while the skill and adroitness exhibited by professional
mediums is frequently not at all extraordinary.
2. As a general rule there is no reason why experts in conjuring should
attempt to°perform the particular feats attempted by mediums, since,
regarded as amusing or interesting performances, apart from their spirit-
ualistic pretensions, slate-writing and materialisation seances offer little
attraction. ^
There are some other points that call for attention in Mr. Harpur s
letter. In paragraph 2, he states that Mr. Davey admitted no sitters,
"except such as regarded the thing to be investigated from one ijarticular
point of view only." A cursory study of the article in Prooeediiujs, Vol. IV.,
p. 381 et seq., will show that this was not the case.
In paragraph 3, Mr. Harpur says that Mr. Hodgson declined the pro-
posal that Mr. Davey should perform his feats in the i^resence of some well-
known Spiritualists, because he feared that the psychical condition of
Spiritualists might be a bar to Mr. Davey's performances. The statement
quoted was not given by Mr. Hodgson as a reason for declining that Mr.
Davey should perform " /lis /eafs " before Spiritualists, but refers (see Vol.
IV., p. 390) to the claim made by some Spiritualists "that Mr. Davey should
produce in their presence a phenomenon similar to and under the same con-
ditions as .sojii" phenomenon ivhich then describe themseUm as haviwj witnessed
with a professional medium," and Mr. Hodgson remarks that "their
90 Journal of Society for Ptiychldtd Research. [May, isfls.
psychical condition, so different in the two cases—in one, a favouring co-
operation, in tlie otlier, a resolve to expose—might be a bar to Mr. Davey,
but an open door to the medium." It is obviously easier for a person who
knows that a conjuring trick is to be i^erformed to detect it than if he
believes it to be a supernatural phenomenon.
Further on in the same paragraph, the sentence which Mr. Harpur puts
in brackets supplies the context incorrectly. Mr. Hodgson says : (Vol. VIII.,
p. 253) " It was my own personal opinion that on the whole it was advisable
that the methods of Mr. Davey should be described in detail. . . . Mr.
Davey, however, was strongly opposed to the revelation, and for various
reasons. . . . Mr. Davey's death has removed the only argument
which had special cogency in my own case, viz., his purpose to give another
series of sittings." The statement has nothing to do with the question
whether Spiritualists should be admitted to Mr. Davey's seances and cannot,
therefore, be inconsistent with anything Mr. Hodgson said on that subject.
With regard to the fourth paragrapli in Mr. Harpur's letter, Mr. Hodgson's
remark as to "psychical conditions" would of course apply to Mr. Lewis,
or to any otlier conjurer who jjrofessed to imitate by conjuring " medium-
istic " phenomena in the presence of Spiritualists, as well as to Mr. Davey.
Mr. Harpur says towards the end of his letter that to imitate " medium-
istic " feats requires so much skill that ordinary conjurers cannot do it
even after being told the methods. We need only refer to Mr. Hodgson's
article in Pror.efdiiKj.% Vol. VIII., p. 253, and Mr. Davey's in Vol. IV.,
p. 405, to show that Mr. Davey is not the only conjurer who has successfully
imitated "mediumistic" phenonrena. Ed.]
HYPNOTISM AS A THERAPEUTIC AGENT.
To Ihv EiVdor of Ihi' Journal of thts Sociktv for Psychical E.esearch.
Sir, —I have l)een asked to write a note for the Jonriud, briefly stating
the great l>enetifc which my health has derived from hypnotic suggestion,
mainly given by Mr. G. A. Smith at the Wednesday evening meetings held
at the Society's rooms.
Under heavy pressure of mental work, combined with great responsibility,
I was a year ago suffering from nervous indigestion in a chronic and
aggravated form, together with insomnia, distressing dreams, and palpita-
tion. My doctor, a s]jecially able man, frequently told me tliat he could give
me no permanent relief so long as the strain on the ner\'es remained so
great, and advised me rather to relinquish my work.
From the first experiment tried by Mr. G. A. Smith, when he succeeded
in inducing a light hypnosis, my health began to improve steadily. I slept
well at night, and the indigestion slowly but steadily passed away ; and I can
confidently say that during the past twelve months under a course of sug-
gestion from Mr. Smith and Dr. Bramwell, I have been, in spite of many
adverse circumstances, stronger than I ever remember being before. The
hypnosis induced has never been profound, as I always retain consciousness
of my surroundings. This fully confirms the statement made by several dis-
tinguished speakers at the recent Congress, that for therapeutic purposes the
May, 1S93.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 91
ligliter stages of trance are ([uite as beneficial as the more 2)i'ofi>innl, the
degree of suggestibility being independent of the depth of the hypnosis.
Mr. Smith was also able on one occasion to produce, by a post-hypnotic
suggestion, entire insensibility in an extremely sensitive tooth, which was
stopped the next day without my feeling any pain, altliough tlie nerve was so
exposed that on a previous occasion the dentist had been obliged to desist
from the attempt. The extreme sensitiveness persisted up to the time I
entered the consulting room, but vanished, in obedience to the suggestion
given on the previous evening, immediately I took my seat in the operating-
chair.
May I add that, in my opinion, if members of the Society residing in, or
visiting, London, would avail themselves in larger numbers of the oppor-
tunity for experiment and discussion offered by the Wednesday evening
meetings at 19, Buckingham-street, they would soon fi.nd themselves repaid
by the interest the whole subject of hypnotism presents to every candid
inquirer. —1 am, sir, yours obediently, J. L.
South Kensington, Ajn-il lOfh, 1893.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Continupil from tJie April Journal.)
F'uvtlipr information improving the evidence in any of tltPfte rrise.t
icill he gratefully received.
B G G8. Fixed local. Account in All the Ycur Eonvd, August 5th,
1871. —Ghost of woman without a head seen in Debden Churchyard by clerk
of parish. After clerk's deatli skeleton of woman minus head was dug upon
the spot. Later, Roi)ert H. Squire, M.D., saw figure of woman without
head in organ loft, he not having heard of previous appearance. Dr. Squire
confirms this tons (.January, 1889), but considers it was a "hallucination of
sight induced by smoking a strong tobacco." Date of events, 1865-0.
B G 69. Haunted house at C. Footsteps frequently lieard by several
different persons. A figure covered with a grey veil seen by Mrs. H. while
in bed, in about 1870. Similar figure seen about same date by page-boy in
his bedroom. In 1884 Miss B. in the afternoon saw figure of lady come
downstairs and cross hall with gliding noiseless step. Accounts from Mrs.
H., Miss B., and two other witnesses. Dated 1885 and 1886.
B G 70. Fixed local. Visual. —The figure of a little child is three
times seen in the house by three difi'erent members of the family, viz.,
Miss A. W. , her sister, and her cousin. It subsequently ajipears that a
young child met with a sudden death in the house previous to their tenancy.
Narrated July, 1887- Experiences: " some 4 years back." Case has been
touched up and printed in a magazine. Confirmation incomplete.
B G 71. Report by Mr. Sibley (of St. John's College, Cambridge) on
peculiar lights seen in farmiiouse, Whittlesford, Cambridge, by one set of
tenants. 1885.
B G 72. Visual. —Mr. .John Thornton informs us that when staying at
his brother's house in St. Petersburg, where mysterious footsteps had often
been heard, he saw figure of strange man at bath-room window. He sought
his brother, and when they returned, figure had gone. Date, 1877-9.
Recorded July, 1888.
B G 73. 2nd hand. Correspondence [188T-8] with the Rev. W. S.
92 Journal of Soelefy for Pftycliical Rt'.^eavclt. [May, iso".
Grignon abmit unexplained voices lieard in the linuse and grounds of a cer-
tain country estate.
B G 74. Dream. Anon. Tliruugli Rev. A. T. Fryer. A lady dreams
that she is warned by a woman unkn<.)wn to her to bi'eak ott' her engagement,
and finds soon after that the figure resembled her fiance's sister, who had
died in the room it ajjpeared to go into. She also found that there was good
reason for the warning. Date, about 1872. Recorded 1892.
GB 75. Collective ('?). Visual. —Mr. Barrington Kennett sees shadowy
figure with outstretched arm against faint phosphorescent background by
bedside. Grabs at arm—feels nothing. Says to wife it is F. come to frighten
them, but he does not then describe what he saw. Wife saw nothing then,
but immediately after saw figure with raised and bent arm against faint phos-
phorescent background—apparently going out of door. Light struck—door
found closed, and no one thei'e. They knew that room was supposed to be
haunted, and joked about it before going to sleeji. Place and date withheld.
Recorded December, 1884.
B G 76. Visual. —Miss Bainbrigge sees a figure, which is said to have
been seen before, unknown to her.
B G 77. Fixed local. Visual. —Mi-s. Knowles frequently saw figure of
woman in grey in Vicarage, Glossop. Mr. Knowles once saw similar figure
in garden—friend with him seeing nothing. Child once saw similar figure
enter a room, not having been told of the apparition. Mr. Knowles, who
recorded this in 188.5, does not want to be tr<jubled further. Mrs. Knowles
mentions that there is some tradition of a murder connected with the
Vicarage, but their knowledge of this did not precede the experiences.
B G 78. Visual.—Apparition of a face falling past the window. Seen
independently by Miss Chalmer and her mother, and possibly the cook
though it is thought that the latter may have been recounting Miss Chalmer's
experience as her own owing to confusion of memory. Recorded by Miss
Chalmer in February, 1889. Date of experiences, 1868. 01)tained through
Dr. Berry, of Bayswater.
B G 79. Visual. — Unrecognised muffled figure of wonian seen by Miss
T. (about 3 feet off moving along a passage and into a room (about 6
feet off) by gas-light. Thought to he sick old servant. No one found in
room. A similar figure seen again momentarily in same passage by Miss T.
2 months later, and same evening by aunt, Mrs. T., whose impression,
however, was rather indefinite and momentary, and she had just heard of her
niece's experience. No tradition of haunting is known of, but iio/xes had
previously been heard. Date, 1883. Recorded 1885. Miss Porter has
interviewed the witnesses.
B G 80. Mr. W. M. Lewis and his friend Colonel C, travelling to-
gether on the Continent are disturbed at every hotel they stop at by loud
rappings and noises which go on all night in their bedrooms, even with
jjlenty of candles burning. Colonel C. does not answer our letters. Date,
1872. Recorded 1885.
B G 81. A^'isual. —Zillah M. Morgan sees her mistress's former landlord,
Mr. S. ,
walking in the street on Wednesday evening. Tliursday evening she
hears from Mrs. Ellis that Mr. S. died on Monday morning. Confirmed.
Date, May 7th, 1890. Recorded May 18th, 1890. iVo^e.—The percipient
in this case is the "Zillah" referred to in Prorrerfi'V/r/.s-, Vol. V., pp. 11-13,
as so susceptible to fost-h iipnotic hallucinations.
B G 82. Fixed local.' Visual. Remote. —" The White Lady of Ragley."
Figure many times seen by different persons moving along path outside
palings of Ragley Park. Skeleton subsequently discovered in 1833 during some
repairs to railings. Murder believed to have been committed as far back as
Charles II. 's time. Details in documents in possession of Miss Talker, who
has permitted us to make abstract.
No. CI.—Vol. VI. June, 18!J3.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates 93
Jleeting of tlie Council 94
General Meetius 94
Experiments in Thought-transference from a distance 98
Cases received by the Li,terary Committee 101
Supplementary Library Catalogue 107
108
NEYV MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
FiNzi, Pb. George, 11 Monte di Pieta, Milan.
MEMBER.
Walker, Mrs. STE^YA.RT, Shrewsbury House, Oxton, Cheshire.
ASSOCIATES.
Roger, Mrs. H. M., Elvington, Ryde, Isle of Wight,
Leadam, Isaac S., 117, St. G-eorge's-square, S.AV.
Librarian, General Assembly Library, Wellington, New Zealand.
Matthews, H. de Couves, The Mount, Monken Hadley, Barnet.
McHugh, p. a., M.P., Sligo.
Shroff, M. M., c/o Messrs, Greaves Cotton and Co., Forbes-street,
Fort Bombay,
Thomas, A. C, Korumburra, Gippsland, Victoria, Australia,
Watson, Rev, John, M.A., 18, Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
TLIE AMERICAN BRANCH.
. ASSOCIATES.
Gushing, Mrs. F. W., Highland Park, 111,, U.S.A.
Fayes, Prof. Chas., LL.D., 150, East 45 Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Hall, Hon. G. E., Consulat Imperial de Turquie, San Francisco, Cal.
Marvin, W. T., 2099, Fifth-avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Raymond, Mrs. Henry E., Carey-road, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
PtEYNOLDS, PoOTH, Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
Shultz, Rev. N., Box 583, San Antonio, Texas, U.S.A.
White, Professor C. J., 36, Weld Hall, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
94 Jou/rnal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1893.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was lield on June 2nd. The Chair was
taken by Professor W. F. Barrett. There were also present : Dr. A.
T. Myers, and Messrs. W. Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore and
\\. Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
On the proposal of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Dr. George Finzi, of Milan,
was elected an Honorary Associate for the current year.
One new Member and eight new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of eight new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., and Mrs. A. W. Verrall were elected
Members of the Connnittee of Reference for the current year.
Several presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote
of thanks was accorded to the donors.
Vaiious other matters having been attended to, the Council agreed
to meet at 3 p.m. on Friday, the 14tn of July, previous to the General
Meeting arranged to be held on that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 59th General Meeting of t!ie Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall on Friday, June 2nd, at 8.-30 p.m. ; Professor
Barrett in the chair. There was a full attendance.
Professor W. Ramsay, Ph.D., F.R.S., read a paper on "Experiments
with Anesthetics." He described the mental state produced when he
was partially under the influence of anaesthetics. There were no
dreams, that is, no connected story as is usual in dreams ; but an over-
whelming mental impression that he alone was a self-centred existence
on which passing events made little or no impression. He became
fully convinced of the truth of Bishop Berkeley's theory that all
external objects are merely impressions on the mind, and have in
themselves no real existence. This state of mind recurred under the
influence of very varied anassthetics, and was essentially the same,
however long a period was allowed to elapse between the repetition of
the experiment. It appears to be caused largely by the fact that,
while under antesthetics, every trivial event which happened was
known to have happened before ; each noise, each trifling visual
impression could have been predicted ; and the certainty of such
recurrence made it appear as if the state of mind was merely a
repetition of a similar previous state : that life was made up of cycles,
JixE, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 05
each cycle consisting of the same events repeated in the same oi'der,
and thus confirming each other, and establishing the justice of the
inference that the mind alone was stable and enduring while such
events were transitory, but capable of recurrence in definite order.
The feeling of expectation was always aroused that it would on each
occasion be possible to penetrate a little further into the secret of the
universe, that is, to fathom a little more deeply the secret nature of
The mind. The belief is not an intellectual one, but is of the nature
of faith because of full knowledge. .-
He had purposely refrained from consulting the literature of the
subject for fear of influencing his recollection of his own impressions ;
but in an account, subsequently consulted, of experiments by Sir
.Humphry Davy, the only record, among some 25 accounts by well-
known men of the effects of nitrous oxide, of a set of impressions similar
to his, is by Davy himself. He, too, appears on one occasion to have
felt very strongly that he was self-existent and alone in the universe,
that nothing is real save thought.
The author expressed the hope that others who may have the
opportunity may also chronicle their impressions under antesthetics, for
the physiology of the mind is best to be understood from its pathology.
Dr. Lloyd Tuckey said that he thought the sensations experienced
by Professor Ramsay resembled those considered characteristic of
Indian hemp or hashish rather than those usually attributed to
chloroform or ether.
Further experiments would perhaps prove the correctness of a
i-ecent hypothesis that the psychical action of anpesthetics, and also of
hypnotism, was due to the suppression of the subject's objective con-
sciousness and the dominance of what Mr. Myers calls the subliminal
consciousness.
The manifestations of the latter would vary with the education and
temperament of the experimenter, and we should therefore expect to
get difi'erent results in different experiments.
Mr. Edward Maitland gave an account of the experiences under
chloroform of a lady, a graduate of the University of Paris and member
of its medical faculty. He said that these were to be regarded as
demonstrations of the existence in lier of the four planes of being,
called the Spiritual, the Psychic, the Astral or Magnetic, and the
Physical or Material, and as proof of the doctrine of re-incarnations.
While under the influence of the anfesthetic, administered to relieve
pain, she seemed to manifest three different personalities. The first
was apparently her normal self, speaking in the first person and pre-
dicting that she would not live long. On further application of the
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1893.
chloroform, her voice chcanged, becoming Hke a man's. This personality
announced itself as " the Astral " and said that it would be better to
let her die then, so as to avoid the suffering that would come if she
lived longer, and that she could not in any case live more than ten
years longer. On an occasion six weeks later, the anaesthesia induced
being still more profound, she spoke in another voice, saying that her
"former selves," none of whom had lived beyond forty, were determined
that she should not live any longer, and were trying to force her to
suicide. This voice was to be regarded as being from the plane of the
Spiritual ego. In the two latter conditions, she spoke of herself in the
third person. She died at the age of 41, rather more than a year
after these exj^eriences.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers said that whatever might be the inner
meaning of the incident described l)y Mr. Maitland, it pointed at any
rate to the fact that the mind of the narcotised person was wont to
move among the same ideas wliich occupied the waking mind, and
possibly to obey some form of self-suggestion. He was therefore glad
that Professor Ramsay had kept his own experiences so independent of
any prepossession from accounts of similar experiences ; but hoped
that Professor Ramsay would now collect other such accounts, and
place them alongside his own.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then read part of a paper by Dr. A. T. Myers
and himself on "Mind-healing, Faith-healing, and the Miracles of
Lourdes," which it is hoped will appear immediately in Proceedings
XXIV. The authors came to the conclusion that of these three
groups the records of Lourdes offered the best instances of cure, but
that there was no convincing evidence that these cures surpassed
other psycho-therapeutical results, attained elsewhere without any
claim to miracle.
The Rev. R. F. Clarke, S. J., while acknowledging the courteousness
and consideration shown to Catholic beliefs by Messrs. Myers,
regretted that they had omitted any discussion of individual cases of
cures wrought at Lourdes. Many of these were in his opinion quite
inexplicable by any natural agency, and he would have been glad to
hear how Messrs. Myers proposed to explain them. They had heard
that there was no connecting link between the apparition to
Bernadette and the miracles. This was a mistake. The Lady seen by
Bernadette ordered her to scratch the ground at the back of the
grotto and a stream would issue from the earth. On her obeying, the
water began to appear, until it became a plentiful stream, and it was
this stream which supplied the water whicli was the instrument of the
miracles. Messrs. Myers had described this water as a fetish, but it
\
I
I
Juke, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research- 97
was no more a fetish than the water of Bethesda and Siloam mentioned
in the Gospels, or the handkerchiefs from the body of St. Peter hy
which miracles were worked. If Bernadette had seen nothing, how
could she ever have gathered thousands when she knelt day by day on
the banks of the Gave ? Let any peasant girl try an imposture, or let
her fancy she sees what is really due to her own imagination, and
then see if she will convince educated men as Bernadette did. The
fact is she was transformed in appearance while she saw the vision of
Our Lady, and those present could not resist the siglit. At Lourdes
they might not have all the details of scientific method to be found in
a hospital, but there was quite enough skilled evidence to convince the
unprejudiced. Father Clarke concluded by inviting any present who
were interested in the subject to visit Lourdes, if possible between
August IGth and 23rd, when the chief pilgrimage took place. Every
facility for investigation would be given them, and they would at
least see things that would astonish them.
Dii. J. Milne Bramavell said : In reference to the alleged miracu-
lous cure of disease two questions might fairly be asked : Have all
possible errors of diagnosis been excluded, and could the cures have
resulted from means other than miraculous ? Some years ago one of
my patients had his eyes injured. One had to be removed, while the
sight of tlie other was considered entirely lost, and a certificate to this
etfect given by a skilled ophthalmic surgeon. He considered the loss of
sight due to complete detachment of the retina, and was so convinced
of this that, previous to an operation on the other eye, he proposed to
remove this one as useless and a possible source of danger to the
success of the operation. After twelve months of blindness the patient
commenced to see a little, and speedily recovered complete power of
vision. At this time he was having no treatment, but had the cure
occurred during a visit to Lourdes it would have been deemed
miraculous, and to disprove this, in the face of the medical evidence,
would have been almost impossible. An effusion of lymph into the
vitreous humour had been mistaken for detached retina.
Father Clarke referred to a case of eczema as one of miraculous
cure. Three years ago I had a case of this kind under my observation.
It had existed for four years, had been treated by able specialists, one
of whom considered it to owe its origin to certain organic changes, for
the relief of which operative measures were resorted to, but these and
all other treatment proved ineffectual, and recourse was had to
hypnotism. On the first day on which hypnosis was induced all the
distressing symptoms disappeared and the skin rapidly regained its
normal condition.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [.Tune, 1893.
A sevei'e case of localised liyperidrosis, of many years' standing,
such as is rarely relieved by ordinary medical treatment, was partially
arrested on the first induction of hypnosis, and completely cured the
following day. Both these cases have now remained cured over three
years.
In a severe case of acne of seven years' duration, in which all
treatment had heen abandoned for twelve months, marked improve-
inent immediately followed hypnosis, and the disease apparently was
suddenly arrested.
Facts such as these render necessary a keen scrutiny of the alleged
nature of the diseases supposed to be miraculously cured, and also point
to the important part suggestion may possibly play in these cures.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers said in reply to Father Clarke that he had
a number of detailed discussions of cases with him, and had only
waited to see (m Avhicli particular class of case Father Clarke laid
stress. The lateness of the hour, however, precluded his now reading
these somewhat technical discussions, which would, he hoped, shortly
be laid before the Society in print. He cordially welcomed Father
Clarke's assurance of the willingness of the authorities at Lourdes to
accept suggestions as to the improvement of their medical e\ idence.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT TRANSFERENCE
FROM A DISTANCE.
L. 952.
The following series of experiments in the transference of diagrams
from a distance of over 200 miles was sent us by the agent, the Re^
Aug. Glardon, M.A., a well-known Swiss author, residing in Tour de
Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland. The percipient was a tViend of his, Mrs. M.,
who was staying tii'st at Bordighera and afterwards at Florence.
Mrs. M. is an Associate of the S.P.R.
A short time before trying the experiments with diagrams, Mr.
(ilardon, when staying at Cannes, had tried to transfer short sentences
to Mrs. M., then at Nice, with a certain amount of success. In two
or three instances, he tells us, it was not the sentence which he had
intended to transfer that was received, " but one or two thoughts to
which I gave vent aloud, for my own benefit, during the sitting, with
great earnestness, and which were heard and written down accurately
by " the percipient. Unfortunately, however, these experiments were
not fully recorded at the time, so that Mr. Glard(.)n is not able to give
us full details of them, or to say exactly what proportion of success waij
obtained.
June, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 99
On March 28th, 1893, Mr. Glardon, at Tour de Peilz, made his
Hrst attempt to transfer diagrams to Mrs. M., at Bordighera. They
had never before tried this form of experiment, either when together
or from a distance. On April 28th, 1893, he writes from Tour de
Peilz :—
Tlie percipient, Mrs. M., was at Bordighera ; the agent, myself, here at
Tour de Peilz. We had agreed that on the 28th March and 1st April I
would transfer telepathically to her at half-past ten p.m. (Ronian time) one
or two figures, geometrical or other. Hlie was to see tliem bright nn the dark
background of her closed eyes, and to draw tlieui witli a jiencil withuut
opening her eyes.
On the 28tli March 1 drew on a sheet of paper tirst a cro.ss (iive scpiares),
then a four-coi-nered star. With the four-cornered star I did not succeed
well at iirst, nor even a second time. Tlie tliird drawing was a little better,
as you can judge from the enclosed.
Mrs. M. saw first a two-branched cross. But it is to be noted that
before I decided upon drawing a cross made of five squares, I had thov/iM of a
two-branched cross, and given it up as too simple. It is the one she saw.
As for tlie star, she reversed the mental process, her first one being the best.
On April 1st I drew a heart. Mrs. M. saw it, drew it pretty accurately,
and, thinking it might be a chicken, added two legs to it.
These two experiments were the only ones of their kind.
Phite I. shows the diagrams used and the reproductions made l)y
Mrs. M. It is traced from the actual drawings of both agent and
percipient, whicli were sent us by Mr. Gllardon. 0 1 and 2 (a), (b), and
(c), (March 28th) are his original drawings, R 1 to 5 the reproductions
by Mrs. M. To these is attached a note :
" Tuesday, March 28th,
1893 ; 9.55 p.m. I try to see his drawmgs," and after the last one is
written the word " egg.''
O 1, April 1st, is Mr. Glardon's drawing ; li 1 to 3, Mrs. M.'s
reproductions. The latter are marked: ''Saturday, April 1st, 1893.
10.30, Bordighera time,'' and after R 1 the words, "a chicken or
hen ? " are written.
All the drawings made by Mrs. M. on both these evenings are
included in the plate.
On May lltli, 1893, Mr. Glardon sent us the results of some further
trials with Mrs. M. at Florence, he himself being still at Tour de Peilz.
No other experiments were made between these and the ones des cribed
above. The experiments of four successive evenings, April 25th to
28th, failed. The diagrams drawn by Mr. Glardon, one used on April
25th, 26th, and 27th, and another on April 28th, with the words that
he was trying to transfer at the same time, are given on Plate II.
On April 29th Mr. Glardon drew a triangle, writing the word
"Trust" under it. (See O, April 29th, Plate II.) Mrs. M. on this
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1893.
occasion made six drawings (Pv, 1 to 6), the first and last of which w"ere
triangles.
On May 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Mr. Glardon used a diagram consisting
of three small circles, with the word "Light" written underneath it.
On May 2]id Mrs. JM. made seven drawings, of which the three most
nearly resembling Mr. Glardon's original (marked on the plate, R '2, 4,
and 6) are given. After them is written " a hand." The resemblance
in this case between original and reproductions is only a slight one,
but it may be observed that all the drawings made by Mrs, M. on this
day (including those which we have not reproduced) consist of curved
lines, more or less approximating to circles, whereas all her drawings on
April 29th (see Plate) consist, roughly speaking, of straight lines.
Before receiving this second set of diagrams, we wrote to Mrs. Isi.
asking for her account of the experiments, and she replied as follows : —
Florence, May 5th, 1893.
Deau Sir,—Your letter of May 2ncl has just reached me. I was not aware
that Mr. Glardon had menti(med our experiments to you. I consented to
try theui with my friend because of my success when sitting with otliers last
summer and the preceding winter. I did not know until a few days ago
that I had caught any idea of Mr. Glardon's. He sent me a tracing of the
cross and three stars after having received my productions.
In answer to your questions :
1. Before trying these experiments at a distance, Mr. Glardon and I had
never attemjited anything of the kind.
2. I made several attempts to reproduce Mr. Glardon's drawings before
sending liim my notes, but how many I cannot say.* He told me he would
try on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays to "send" a message of a few
words, and on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays a drawing. We were to
sit at a certain hour in the evening, making due allowance for the difference
between Swiss and Italian time. Mr. Glardon has all my notes, and can,
therefore, give you more correct information than can I.
3. I had not the slightest idea what kind of design Mr. Glardon would
choose. As he is a landscape artist, my most natural thought would bo that
he had selected some object in Nature.
Did Mr. Glardon tell you that in the "messages" I had occasionally
caught not only his thought but some of his words '(
He has not told me
which ones. I generally see the designs (with my eyes shut) as white
on black, or black on white or light grey. I draw usually with my
eyes closed. Sometimes the design stands out clear and comes quickly ;
at other times there is much confusion, and many designs present
themselves more or less distinctly, but finally resolve into one which
seems more precise than the preceding impressions. In the written
*Mrs. M. explains in a later letter that she made no other drawings besides those
sent to Mr. Glardon, all of which are reproduced in our plates, except some of those
drawn on May 2nd, as mentioned above.
HZ
0.
I.
7
IS. ISCj-b
CAVE CANEN
ft 2)
>^ 4-.
X 6.
June, 1893.] journal of Society for Psychiccd Research. 101
messages I frequently, almost invariably, see the words. Sometimes
I hear or feel them. (What shall I call the sensation ?) I am often
amused in wondering what word will come next. Occasionally my hand is
violently agitated : moves about in the air, and makes all sorts of scratches
and dots with the pencil. Once in a while the muscles of my face are
contracted and I seem to be trying to speak, but I do not encourage these
demonstrations as they produce no definite results. ... I have
little more to say, save that in trying to reproduce drawings when in the
same room with the agents I get much excited and have a constant sense or
fear of failure. I am continuing my experiments with Mr. Glardon, never
failing to keep my appointment at the stated hour, but I have recently had
an impression that the communications are not going to reach me correctly.
This will be settled when I send my next notes to my friend.
E. S. M.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 953. Collective A^^ P'^
The following case was sent to me by Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., a
member of the S.P.R. In conversation lie described to me the
singular and persistent distress accompanying the uoctiirnal alarm,
—
F. W. H. M.
Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk, A^jril 26/;/;, 1893.
On August 20th, 1884, I was staying at my father-in-law's house at Bury
St. Edmunds. I had left my father in perfectly good health about a fort-
night before. He was at home at this address. About August 18th I had
had a letter from my mother saying that my father was not quite well, and
that the doctor had seen him and made very light of the matter, attributing
his indisposition to the extreme heat of the weather.
I was not in any way anxious on my father's account, as he was rather
subject to slight bilious attacks.
I should add, though, that I had been spending that day, August 20th,
at Cambridge, and should have stayed the night there had not a sort of
vague presentiment haunted me that possibly there would be a letter from
home the next morning. Sly wife, too, had a similar strong feeling that if
I stayed the night at Cambridge I might regret it. In consequence of this
feeling I returned to Bury, and that night woke up suddenly to find myself
streaming Avith perspiration and calling out :
" Something dreadful is
happening ; I don't know what." The impression of horror remained some
time, but at last I fell asleep till the morning.
My father, Sir Willoughby Jones, died very suddenly of heart disease
about 1 a.m. on August 21st. He was not in his room at the moment, but
was carried back to his room and restoratives applied, ljut in vain.
My brother Herbert and I were the only two of the family absent from
home at the time. The thoughts of those present (my mother, brother, and
three- sisters) no doubt turned most anxiously towards us, and it is to a
telepathic impression from them in their anxiety and sorrow that I attribute
the intimations we received. Lawrence J. Jones.
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea/rch. [June, 1893.
Lady Jones writes :
I have a vivid remembrance of the occurrence related above by my
luisband. I was sound asleep when he awoke, and seizing me by [the] wrist
exclaimed :
" Such a dreadful thing is happening," and I had nuich difticulty
in persuading him that there was nothing wrong.
He went to sleep again, but was much relieved in the morning by finding
a long letter from Sir Willoughby, posted the day before, and written in good
sjjirits. Having read this and gone to his dressing-room, however, he soon
returned with the telegram sunnnoning him home at once, and said as he
came in : "My impression in the night was only too true."
Evelyn M. .Jones.
Mr. Herbert Jones, the other percipient, describes his experience
as follows :
Knebworth Rectory, Stevenage.
Hervlledioiis of August 20lh, 1884.
I had spent the day at Harpenden, and returned home about 8 p.m. and
went to bed about 10.30.
I woke at 12 o'clock, hearing my name called twice, as I fancied. I lit
my candle, and, seeing nothing, concluded it was a dream—looked at my
watch, and went to sleep again.
I woke again and heard people carryhig sometiiing downstairs from the
upper storey, just outside my room. 1 lit my candle, got out of bed, and
waited till the men were outside my door. They seemed tu be carrying
something heavy, and came down step by step.
I (ipeued my door, and it was pitch dark. I was puzzled and dumb-
founded. I went into my sitting-room and into the hall, but everything was
dark and quiet. I went back to bed convinced I had been the sport of another
nightmare. It was ab(jut 2 a.m. by my watch. At breakfast next morning
on my plate was a telegram telling me to come home.
This whole story may l)e nothing, l)ut it was odd tliat I should have
twice got up in one night, and that during that night and those hours my
father was dying. ,
H. E. Jones.
April ith, 1893.
Sir Lawrence Jones adds : —
My brother was then a curate in London, livhig at 32, Palace-street,
Westminster, where the above experience took place. —L. J. J.
The next three cases are instances of a veridical dream coinciding
with the arri\-al of information which corresponds with the percipient's
impression.
In the first two cases it may be Supposed that a telepathic impulse
from the writer of the letter had remained latent for some time, but
the circumstances suggest a possible exercise of clairvoyance on the
part of the percipient, the faculty being perhaps directed subcon-
June, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psijchical Research.
sciously towards the letter by his knowledge that a letter had
arrived.
The lirst is from the Rev. W. M. Lewis, wlio writes from Tyllwyd
Penyewm, R. S. 0., Pemb.
L. 954r. Dream.
October lOlh, 1891.
My residence, where I have lived for thirty years, is Avithin half a dozen
miles of St. David's Head, Pembrokeshire, occupying a farm and having the
pastorate of a small country Welsh Nonconformist church. I spent, how-
ever, the greater part of May, 1890, in London, W. One mornhig during
my stay there. I was awoke by the postman's knock, who, as usual, threw
his letters [on] to the door mat within and passed on. Not wishing to get up
just then, I again slept for a short time, all of which time became apparently
occupied with a dream, in which I found myself in a crowded hall listening
to a lecture by the Rev. D. C. D , M.A. (London), then Principal of
T College, Breconshire. The lecturer's voice, always weak, was quite
inaudible from where 1 was seated ; I strained to catch some remarks, .
but in vain. Some noises also outside the hall helped to drown his voice,
and among the noises were the sounds of a band of music, which grew so
loud eventually that the lecturer sat down. I got up from where I wa<3
seated and went and sat beside him, and told him I was anxious to attend
his lectures at T College, and wished to know what were his present
subjects. He attempted to tell me, but the noises outside were still so loud,
that I was unable to understand what he said. After repeated attempts on
Ids part, I was able to catch the words '
' Heaven " and " Hell." He, however,
used a word in connection with each, which I was still unable to detect
owing to the uproar still continuing. At last I discovered that this word was
" crises," and that the subjects he wished to inform me of were "Crises in
Heaven," "Crises in Hell." All the circumstances of this dream were so
vivid and strange that when I awoke, and while I was dressing, it entirely
occupied my thoughts, and I was endeavouring to imagine what could have
suggested such a dream. On gohig downstairs I found that the only
letter delivered that morning was for me, and was from my youngest
son, then at Aberystwyth College, on opening which, to my great astonish-
ment, I found it wholly occupied with the name that had filled my dream
and was then filling my thoughts, relating, after just a remark that
he was glad I was enjoying my stay in London, that on the previous
Sunday the Aberystwyth people and himself had had a great treat in
having the Rev. D. C. D to occupy the pulpit of the chapel he was
attending, and how he, being such a stranger to the place, had attracted
immense congregations, preached powerful sermons, and made the Sunday
quite an event in the place. I did not know that the Rev. Principal had
any intention of visiting Aberystwyth, nor had I any means of knowing.
The coincidence appeared to me very remarkable, that from the moment
that the letter wholly occupied with the name of the Rev. D. C.
was thrown on the mat, and during the whole of the time that it lay there
unopened, he should also have filled my dream, and should connect, through
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1893.
letter and dream combined, places so far distant and unconnected as London,
Brecon, and Aberystwyth.
The strangest and most remarkable coincidence remains to be told. I
mentioned above that in my dream Mr. D 's voice hi the lecture which
I was endeavouring to hear, was inaudible owing to noises and music outside
the hall. Now, I returned from London here the end of May, and in course
of a couple of months —at the beginning of August—my son came home from
Aberystwyth for midsummer holidays. One day at table, I related this
dream in his hearing, and mentioned the strange concidence between it and
the letter. When I had tinished my sen said, " Father, it is very strange
that on the Sunday night when Mr. D was preaching at the Tabernacle,
Aberystwyth, soon after the service began, there was a circus passing into
town, along the Ijack road on which abuts the chapel wall, and so great
was the noise and uproar of carriages, horses and crowd that for a long
time Mr. D could not be heard ; and much blame was tlu'own on the
to wn authorities that they allowed a procession of that character to disturb
the Sunday services. " It is but fair I should add that, though I have been once
or twice at this chapel of Tabernacle at Aberystwyth, the lecture hall of
my dream did not correspond to it, l)ut the disturbing uproar of my London
dream corresponded to that which appears to have occurred at the chapel in
that it proceeded from behind the lecturer or preacher and not from behind
the audience.
Mr. Lewis writes later :
—
I have shown the account to my son, who is noAV hero—who corroborates
all that relates to him.
The Beconcl case comes from Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart, (one of the
percipients in L. 953, printed above). Though the coincidence here is
less detailed than in the preceding case, the account has the advantage
of having been written on the day of the incident.
L. 955. Dream.
Ventnor, March 23rd, 1891.
I was called at eight this morning, and my letters left outside the door. 1
fell asleep again, and had what seemed a long and troublesome dream about a
cheque which I had to lill up and sign. At nine I awoke, with a vivid recollec-
tion of my dream, got up, opened a packet of letters forwarded from home,
and found among them a registered letter containing a cheque for a large
fum, which I had to sign as trustee. L. J. J.
JST.B. —I had no reason to expect the receipt of the cheque. The dream
was not in any way concerned with the real cheque, but was rather my
ineifectual attempts to draw a cheque properly on a blank sheet of ]japer.
But the coincidence was very remarkable.
Lady Jones Avrites ;
I can entirely corroborate from my own memory the story of my
husband's dream about the cheque. Evelyn M. Jones.
April 1st, 1893.
JuNi;, isys.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 105
Sir Lawrence Jones writes later :
—
Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, April 1st, 1893.
I related my dream to Lady Jones immediately after ojoening my letter.
This dream was unusually vivid, and the impression of it remained with me
much longer than usual. I dream a good deal, but rarely remember any-
thing except in the case of morning dreams, when I have woken early and
gone to sleep again.
(1. 237. Dreanx.
Received through the American Branch from Miss E. H. Kitchina-.
Both witnesses are known to Mr. Hodgson,
Miss Kitching writes :—
141, West 60th Street, New York,
Apnl 2Wi., 1890.
The following is full information as to this experience, which, by the waj^
is the only one I ever had.
I will say, in the first place, that I am unusually strong and robust, and
have always been in perfect health, and also that I have always had a secret
belief that only unhealthy and morbid people are subject to psychical
experiences.
My brother, J. Howard Kitching, who from his birth suffered from
heart disease, was obliged, on a^ccount of his ill health, to leave this country in
February, 1887. He was appointed U.S. Consular Agent to Bone, Algeria,
where he remained until his death, which occurred August 20bh, 1888. Ho
grew steadily better in that climate, and my mother and I had reason to
hope he would ultimately become strong. In August, however, he became
ill again, and died, having carefully kept from us the fact of his illness. At
the time of his death we were at Saratoga, N.Y. The cablegram announcing
his death, having been advisedly kept over in New York, did not reach us
till noon on the 23rd of August. Early in the morning of the 23rd (it may
have been at four or five o'clock, but I do not know the exact hour) I
experienced, while lying asleep in bed, a distressing mental impression, as
though something dreadful Avere taking place in connection with my brother,
and I awoke with the conviction that he was dead. The mental stress was
very painful while it lasted, but as soon as I was completely awake 1 thought
no more about it, until tlie cablegram came at noon informing us that my
brother had died on the 20th.
Even if the impression had weighed on my mind during the morning
(which it did not), I should not have spoken of it to my mother, for fear of
causing her anxiety.
My brother was always extremely interested in psychical research, and
had some very interesting experiences in hypnotism, which power he
developed while at Bone. I, however, as I said before, have had no
psychical experience except this one.
* • • . .
Edith Howard Kitcuiko,
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, im.
In reply to Mr. Hodgson's request for corroboration, Mrs. Kitching
wrote as follows :
—
141, West eOth Street, May Sth, 1890.
Dear Sik,—As to the statement sent to you by my daughter, Edith
Kitching, I wish to say that she did not mention to me the fact that she had
received a mental communication before the receipt of the cablegram,
announcing the death of her brother, but some hours afterwards, after
receiving and reading it, she instantly said, " I knew it," and then told me
of her experience as written to you.
Hakriet B. Kitc'hi\g.
L. 956. Dream. I
From Mr. J. W. Craufurd, through Professor A. Alexander.
About January of 1887 I was then engaged to my present wife. She
lived in tlie city of Buenos Ayres, and I was living some distance outside.
On one particular night I dreamt I saw my fiancee walking along one of
the streets of Buenos Ayres, when a man crossed over the road and took her
up in his arms and walked along a little way with her in that position ;
I at
this point, however, woke up. The man was a friend of my fiancee's, of
whom I had often heard her speak, and 1 recognised him in my dream from
having seen his photograph in my fiancee's album. Two days after my
dreani I received a letter from my fiancee saying she had been to church on
Sunday morning, and whilst inside had not felt very well (being subject to
fainting tits), so°had left the church, and walked up the street, accompanied
by the very gentleman whom I had seen in my dream. When they arrived
in front of the Hotel Provence, my fiancee was feeling so faint she could pro-
ceed no further, and the gentleman was obliged to pick her up in his arms
and carry her into the hotel, where she had one of her fainting fits.
The theory of th's phenomenon I can only explain by supposing thought-
transmission at the time of the writing of the letter, which thought remained
dormant in my brain, ti'l let loose when in a condition of sleep, and so
made manifest.
J. Westwood-Craufurd.
Rio do Janeiro, Mairli 22nd, 1892.
Mrs. Craufurd writes :
I corroborate the statement made by my husband regarding what
happened to me in Buenos Ayres, in January, 1887, and also his dream as he
described it to me in a letter written before he received mine telling hnu
what had occurred.
Ada WESTWOOD-CRAUFTHin.
Mff/r/i 22nd, 1892.
JuxE, 1893.] Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research. 107
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since tlirltid list (Journal for Jaihuary, 1893).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Experimental Psychology, International Congress of, Second
Session, London, 1892 Londati, 1893
Hudson (Thomson Jay), The Law of Psychic Phenomena.
AWorking Hypothesis for tlie Systematic Study of Hyjmotisni,
S])iritisiu, Mental Therapeutics, &c London, 1893
(Another copy).*
(Another copy).t
James (Professor William), Text Book of Psychology London, 1892
TucKEY (C. Lloyd, M.D.), The Value of Hypnotism in Chronic
Alcoholism London, 1892
BiNET (Alfredj, Les Alterations de la Personnalite Paris, 1892
Janet (Prof. Pierre), Etat Mental des Hysteriques, les Stig-
mates Mentaux. Preface de M. le Prof. Charcot Paris, 1893
Janet (Prof. Pierre), L'Automatisme Psychologique Paris, 1889;
Reichel (Willy), Der Magnetismus und seine Phiinomene, Berlin, 1892
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Buckley (J.M., LL.D.), Faith-Healing, Christian Science, and
Kindred Phenomena London, 1892
Brittan, (S. B., M.D.,) Man and his Relations. 7th Edition.
Boston, U.S.A., 1881
Do THE Dead RETXUtN l A Record of Experiences in Spiritualism.
By a Clergyman of the Church of England London, 1893*
Kingsford (Anna Bonus, M.D., Paris), Dreams and Dream
Stories. Edited hy Edward Maitland. 2iid Edition.. iofw/uit, 1888§
A B(jok of the Illuminations of. Edited by Edwaixl
Maitland London, 1889^
and Edward Maitland. The Perfect Way. 3rd Edition.
London, 1890^
PoTTER(Wm. Bailey, M.D.), Spiritualism as it is ;
being the Results
of a Scientific Investigation of Spirit Manife.stations. Coventry,
P.L., U.S.A., 1866§
Lasserre (Henri), Notre-Dame de Lourdes Paris, 1875j|
Presented by the Publisher,
t Presented by Mr. R. Hodgson.
Presented by Lady Welby.
§ Presented by Mr. Edward Maitland,
1] Presented by Mr. James Britten.
i08 Journal of Society for Psychical Metsearch. [JuNij, 1893.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES,
(Continued from the May Journal.)
Further information imjjroving the evideyice in any of these cases
will he grate/idly received.
B G 83. Visual. Motive. 3rd hand. Tlirougli Rev. A. T. Fryer.—
\ Mr. White, when washing his hands, sees former occupant of his house,
who had died a short time before. Aslved what troubled him, the apparition
said that he had buried some seed potatoes in a certain place, which he
described exactly, and disappeared. Death occurred in 1855. Recorded 1891.
B G 84. Visual, Auditory and Tactile. Through Rev. A. T. Fryer.—
Mrs. Mary Riffold sees her daughter a few days after her death. She clasps
her tightly round the waist and says :
" I want to kiss you ; I am so happy."
Mrs. Riffold in consequence ceases to grieve. Written down by Mr. Fryer
apparently immediately after questioning percipient in March, 1891. Date :
a good many years ago.
B G 85. Visual. Fixed local.—Mrs. Beasley and her young son and
daughter see, at different times, figures, especially of a nun, in an old
school-house. Servants and school-children also see the nun. The family
occupied the house from 1858 to 1879. The apparitions were seen during
the last 3 years. The account, signed by Mrs. and Miss M. A. Beasley, was
written about 1885, and sent to us in 1889.
(2.) The two Misses Beasley also saw female "white" and "grey"
figures in the next house the family moved to—between 1879 and 1881
which had the reputation of being haunted. Footsteps and other ghostly
noises were also heard here by all the family and servants. Miss Beasley
adds that at an old convent on the Rhine they all saw a similar figure at
different times.
BG 86. Visual. Fixed local.—Mrs. S. informs us in 1889 that in
1850-2 she several times saw a female figure in her house at Brighton, which
could not have been a real person. Her young son once rushed from his
bedroom at niglit saying that he had seen a woman leaning over his bed.
Fifteen years afterwards a lady confided to Mrs. S. that she had seen the
same iigure when visiting her.
B G 87. Visual.—2nd hand, g(3od as 1st. First printed in the
Flumnatulogical Papers, last series. A lad aged 14, playing with his cousin,
aged 13, in the garden of a country house, looked into library through
mndow and observed that an old gentleman occupied armchair by fire. The
cousin also looked but saw nothing. The lad's description of what he saw
corresponded to aspect of cousin's maternal grandfather, who had constantly
occupied this chair, and who had been dead about a year. The percipient
did not know the old gentleman when alive. We have the cousin's account
of the matter, and also letters from the percipient's mother, who heard
of it soon after the occurrence. Date : end of summer, 1876. Recorded :
February, 1885.
B G 88. Accounts of very remarkable noises heard by a family and
friends in a house at Wandsworth in 1884. The tenants were obliged to
leave in consequence of the disturbances—which consisted of heavy thump-
ing noises, footsteps, snatching of bedclothes, touches, rocking of furniOTre,
&c. We have accounts from 3 of the witnesses, written some months after
the experiences. Upwards of a dozen members of the S.P.R. spent nights
in the house in October and November, 1885, after the tenants had left, Ijut
they observed nothing unusual.
No. CII.-VoL. VI. July, im.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates . . . . . . . . 109
Meeting of the Council 110
General Meeting 110
Thought-transference obtained tlirough Table- tilting 112
Cases received by the Literary Committee 115
Correspondence :
—
On the Production of Spurious "Spirit-raps" 120
Mr. Myers on the Mechanism of Hysteria 122
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 124
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
7 —
MEMBER.
Phillipps, Mrs. March, Edmonstone House, Cheltenham.
ASSOCIATES.
Raines, Miss W., 40, Sussex-square, Brighton.
CoLLisoN, Mrs., Weybridge, Surrey.
EsTERHASY, CouNT MiCHEL, Cseklesz, Pressburg County, Hungary.
Lloyd, Otho Holland, 16, Tite-street, Chelsea, S.W.
MuNTiiE, Dr., Rome.
Synge, Rev. F., M.A., 1, Daleham-gardens, South Hampstead, N.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ASSOCIATES.
Allen, Rev. M. Theresa, Cherryvale, Kansas, U.S.A.
Ferguson, J. H., Talmage, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Hubbard, R. M., ,322, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Kopta, Madame Flora P., Gut Podmok in Podmok, Post Shiitten-
hofen, Bohemia.
Myers, W. H., M.D., 157, West Wayne-street, Fort Wayne, Ind., U.S.A.
Remer, William A., Deadwood, South Dakota, U.S.A.
Swift, William H., Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A.
Van Norden, Warner M., 16, W. 48 Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Wherpell, John, M.D., 228, North Mill-street, Kansas City, U.S.A.
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, i893
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Westminster Town Hall
on July 14th ; Professor H. Sidgwick in the chair. There were also
present: Professor W. F. Barrett, Col. Hartley, Dr. A. T. Myers, and
Messrs. T. Barkworth, F. W. H. Myers, S. C. Scott, and R. Pearsall
Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
One new Member and six new Associates, whose names and addresses
are given above, were elected. The election of nine new Associates of
the American Branch was recorded.
At the request of Miss E. A. Atkinson, her name was transferred
from the list of Members to that of Associates.
The Council recorded the decease of two Members of the Society :
Baron Raymond de Cary, of Paris, and Captain Burchall Helme, J. P.,
of Warminster.
A vote of thanks was accorded to the donors for two books pre-
sented to the Library.
Arrangements were made for the holding of General Meetings on
the following dates Friday, October STth, 4 p.m ;
Friday, December
1st, 8.30 p.m., and Friday, January 26th (1894), 4 p.m.
The Council also agreed that its next meeting should be on Friday,
October 6th, at 19, Buckingham-street, W.C., at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 60th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall, on Friday, July 14th, at 4 p.m.; Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. W. Leaf read part of a translation by himself from the Russian
of an account, by Mr. V. S. Solovioff, of Madame Blavatsky. The
portion read included a description of certain pretended occult phe-
nomena produced by trickery, of an attempt by Madame Blavatsky
to induce Mr. Solovioff to assist in writing Koot Hoomi letters, and
further, of a letter written by Madame Blavatsky to Mr. Solovioff, and
headed " My Confession," in which she described her life, and said in
effect that, being driven to bay, she would make everything public, and
destroy her dupes and the Theosophical Society.
Mrs. Besant, in an eloquent speech, said that Mr. Solovioff's state-
ments were unsupported, that a reply to him had been made by
Madame Blavatsky's sister, Madame Zhelikhovsky, in which she accused
July, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Ill
Mr. Solovioff of mistranslating Madame Blavatsky's letter, and also
attacked Mr. Solovioff's private character. Mrs. Besant threatened
that if the S.P.R. published Mr. Solovioff's account, Madame Zhelik-
hovsky's attack on him would be published also.
Mr. Leaf, in reply, remarked that he was probably the only person
in the room who had read the whole controversy tlu'ough from be-
ginning to end—Mr. Solovioff's narrative, Madame Zhelikhovsky's
attacks, and Mr. Solovioff's replies. Madame Zhelikhovsky had
admitted the genuineness of Madame Blavatsky's letter, and withdrawn
the attack in question on the correctness of the translation. He added
that it was intended, with Mr. Solovioff's account, to publish at least
an abstract of Madame Zhelikhovsky's attack and Mr. Solovioff's answer.
The members of the Society who wished to form an independent
judgment on the matter in dispute would wait till they had the whole
case before them, but in the meanwhile he might say that, after care-
fully considering the whole of it, he had himself no doubt of the
trustworthiness of Mr. Solovioff's account.
Professor Barrett then read a paper on the alleged evidence in
favour of the Divining Rod.
The object of tlie paper was to bring before the Society an account
of some experiments on the Divining Rod, which the author had
recently been enabled to make, and also to place on record a continua-
tion of the report of cases in which the Divining Rod had been
successfully used to find underground springs or mineral lodes. The
author referred to the previous report on this subject by Mr. E. R.
Pease, which appeared in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., and gave
a summary of the conclusions at which Mr. Pease had arrived, and
with which he substantially agreed. The subject itself was one which
at first sight appeared wholly unworthy of notice, still less of serious
scientific investigation ; but a beHef which is so widespread and so
long continued, and which has led to so many successful commercial
undertakings in the sinking of wells and opening of mines, renders
it one of those matters which the S. P. R. was founded to investigate.
After a brief historical review the author adduced numerous cases
of the successful use of the Divining Rod hj Mr. Lawrence, the oldest
living of the diviners or dowsers, and who is greatly respected in his
own neighbourhood ; of Mr. Mullins, who has perhaps the largest and
most remarkable record of cases of water-finding ; of Mr. Mere-
weather, Mr. Stears, Mr. Tompkins, and the lad Fred Rodwell, and
others who use the rod professionally. An account of the author's
experiments with Rodwell and Mr. Stears was then given, which were
inconclusive ;
though one or two striking indications were made, yet
the result with metal concealed in boxes, &c,, was not beyond chance
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
coincidence. Illustrations were then given of amateur diviners, one of
the most striking being a case sent by Miss Grantham.
Professor Barrett stated as his conclusion that there is a remark-
ably strong 'primil facie case in favour of the usefulness of the
indications through the Divining Rod, and that had he to sink a well
in a certain limited area he would prefer to trust to the opinion of a
water-finder like MuUins or Lawrence, however that may be arrived at,
than to the wisdom of a geological expert. Proceeding to discuss the
explanation of the water-finder's success, he showed that any physical
theory of the action of the rod only lands us in absurdities, and that,
therefore, it is in some peculiar psychological state of the diviner
that explanation must be sought. This he believed to be similar
to that in which automatic writing is obtained. The diviner, he
suggested, allows his mind to be dominated by the object of his quest,
say the finding of an underground spring, whereupon he is so consti-
tuted that an abnormal keenness of faculty arises, and signs indicative
of the presence of water, though quite unappreciable to those around,
are detected and transmitted to the brain ; and here, instead of
arousing any consciousness of the fact, a purely reflex action is excited,
which results in a muscular twitch that turns the rod held between
the fingers.
Me. Page Hopps said a few words, expressing himself as specially
interested in the fact that Professor Barrett was convinced of the
genuineness of the power of water-finders, though his own experiments
were inconclusive. He thought that the conditions required for
experiments often interfered with psychical phenomena.
THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE OBTAINED THROUGH
TABLE-TILTING.
The following account of some experiments in table-tilting
was sent to us by Professor Alexander, of Rio de Janeiro, in March,
1892.
He writes :
Dr. Barcellos is a gentleman who resides at Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro,
where he not only has a considerable practice, but is also generally esteemed
as an honourable and sensible man. Having studied hypnotism, he was
desirous of witnessing some of the allied facts to be observed in psychical
research. Towards the middle of last year we agreed to hold formal sittings
at his house with the purpose of eliciting, if it were possible, physical
phenomena. We devoted Monday evenings to our investigations, the circle
being composed, with the exception of myself, of members of the doctor's
own family. Ponna Maria de Villas Boas Barcellos, a school teacher, wbo
July, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 113
acted as medium, has, if table tilting be no proof to the contrary, arrived at
years of mature discretion. She is Dr. Barcellos' sister-in-law, and the
mother of five children. The few sittings held began on the 31st of August,
1891, and were discontinued about the end of October of the same year.
They were subject to much interruption by children and visitors, and were
finally stopped when Donna Maria was appointed to a school at a distance.
With the exception of some slight crepitations, more felt than heard, the
seances, so far as physical phenomena go, were a failure. The lady, doubtless,
moved the table herself, although she did not seem to be aware of it. As for
the messages, they were nearly always of a trivial character, and occasionally
they were false. There seems, however, to have been a noticeable percen-
tage of verifiable truth in what came through Donna Maria's automatism.
Before our. sittings began, this lady was seated at the me-M fallante (speaking-
ing-table) with members of her own family when the presence of her father,
then deceased, was announced. He was asked to give the names of the
people present. This he did, including that of a boy who was not in the
room at the time, with the information that he had just fallen down in the
mud. Immediately afterwards the little fellow came into the room crying
and confirmed the statement made through the table. The sitters, who were
only seeking for amusement, became frightened and abandoned all further
experiments. At our own sittings, among much that was wearisome and
unprofitable, a few encouraging incidents occurred. On one occasion
(October 26th, 1891) Dr. Barcellos asked mentally about the state of a young
lady patient who was ill of smallpox. The table replied that she would
die on the following morning at eight o'clock. She did not die, but at the
hour mentioned she became much worse. On another occasion, after I had
retired, details were given about the private life of an individual who lived in
Vassouras, up country, which were by no means flattering to him. A Seiihor
Lozada, the doctor's brother-in-law, who was standing away from the table,
was the only person present who had previously known of these particulars.
He declared that the information thus obtained was exact.
So much for the general character of our sittings, of which I give an
idea, so that the incident I am about to relate may not have more than its
due importance.
On the 21st of September, 1891, I was seated at the table with
Dr. Barcellos, his niece Sylvia, and Donna Maria Barcellos, when the words
came, " The vase is broken." We asked what vase. "(The vase) at your
house, the vase of phenic acid." I demanded the hour, and the reply was,
"At eight o'clock." Of this an immediate note was taken at my request by
one of the children seated at another table. I transferred this note to my
pocket-book where it reads as follows :
—
"21st of September, 1891. —0 vaso se quebrou— De sua casa—O vaso de
acido phenico—As 8 horas."
I at once looked at my watch. It wanted some four or five minutes
to eight. I knew, however, that it was not going well at the time, and I
forgot to compare it afterwards with the right time. When this message
had been given Sylvia Barcellos rose from her place, and Went into the
dining-room, where she told the others what had happened. Some visitors
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
who were there spoke of retirmg ; but they were urged to stay, as it was
only eight o'clock— the hour then marked by the timepiece on the wall.
Thus a lucky chance determined the time of the message, which my careless-
ness in neglecting to see how much I was out might have left in doubt.
I did not at first suppose that the above words had any more importance
than other things that came through the table. It was, therefore, an
agreeable surprise when on a subsei^uent occasion Dr. Barcellos told me that
the message had been confirmed. I wrote down a re'siune of his statement,
which I now copy from ray note-book :
"Donna M. on arriving home was being told of fright, when she
interrupted them, telling them what had come through table. They had just
remarked time (eight o'clock) and went to give food to sick cliild— when noise
of breakage. They exclaimed, '
O vaso de acido plienico se quebrou.' In
truth, the jug had been upset by the dog, and had fallen against the vase of
phenic acid, making the noise."
Neither the vase in question, which was of porcelain, nor the water-jug
was really broken. The cause of the accident was a dog that had got into
the room where the sick child lay. The animal had, no doubt, endeavoured
to drink out of the jug, which was standing on the fioor near a chair.
The house where Donna Maria was then living is situated about a kilo-
metre's distance from Dr. Barcellos' residence, so that the explanation by
hypera3sthesia of the hearing—in a jDerson who could hardly be said to be out
of her normal condition—seems to me to be absurd. Yet the lady was no
clairvoyant, for the vase was not really broken. Even if her character were
not above suspicion, she could not have arranged the incident beforehand,
for a dog does not take part in a plot. The coincidence in time, and the
exact mention of what was supposed to have occurred, renders mere chance
an extremely unlikely element. We are therefore limited to one hypo-
thesis—the emotional impression of the girls who exclaimed, " O vaso de
acido phenico se quebrou," influenced their mother telepathically, and the
table was the means of bringing to the surface the message which her sub-
consciousness had received.
Alfred Alexander.
Rio de Janeiro, March 21st [1892].
The evidence of the other witnesses was given in Portuguese, of
which we print English translations, kindly furnished by Professor
Alexander.
It was a little past eight when the visitors who were with me in the
dining-room in the evening of the 2l8t of September,' 1891, spoke of
retiring
LuizA Barcellos.
On the 21st of September, 1891, 1 witnessed a curious fact in telepathy.
At that date, at eight o'clock in the evening, various persons in a house in the
Rua de Donna Marianna heard a strange noise in the room of a smallpox
patient, and ran into it, crying out that in all probability the vase of phenic
acid had been broken. Donna Maria Barcellos, my sister-in-law, one of
her daughters, Sylvia Barcellos, Senhor Alfredo Alexander, and I were at
July, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 115
tliat hour seated at a small round table, when it was announced that in the
above-mentioned house, in the Rua de Donna Marianna, a vase of phenic
acid had been broken. Donna Maria Barcellos was much astonished when
they told her on her going home to the Rua de Donna Marianna that they had
had a great fright at eight o'clock in the evening. She replied that she
was already aware that it was a vase of phenic acid which had been
broken. Then they explained to her that such had been the general
supposition in the house, that when they ran into the room they all
exclaimed, "The vase of phenic acid has broken," and tliat on entering
they discovered that a jug of water standing near a chair had fallen against
the vase of phenic acid.
These facts passed in the presence of Professor Alexander, who was
also at the table with my sister-in-law and Sylvia.
(Signed) Dk. Alfredo Barcellos.
March 21st, 1892.
When Mariquinhas came home I said to her, " You cannot imagine what
a fright we had to-day," to which she replied, You need not tell me ;
I
know all about it. It was the vase of phenic acid that broke." This reply
caused us the greatest surprise, when she added that nobody had told her of
it, but that she heard of it through the intermedium of the tilting table. Our
astonishment was still greater when she said that the fact occurred at eight
o'clock in the evening.
Indeed, at that hour, when we were in the back part of the house, we
heard a loud noise like that of the fall of some vessel full (of liquid). The
door of the bedroom where the child sick of smallpox lay was closed ; but
we heard her crying out, and ran to see what was the matter. At the same
time the three girls exclaimed, " The vase of phenic acid has broken 1
" It
was not, however, this vase that broke, but a jug of water which had fallen
down.
N.B. —This fact happened yesterday, September 21st, 1891.
Rio de Janeiro, Septemher 22nd, 1891.
(Signed) Amelia A. Cardim.
Maria Cardim.
.
.
Paulina Barcellos.
Maria Villas Boas.
Carlota Cardim.
Amelia Cardim.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The two cases given below are instances of apparent foreknowledge
of events which it is difficult to explain by a mere ordinary acquaint-
ance—however obtained—with present events. If we may assume
that the amount of correspondence between the dreams and the events
that followed them was beyond chance, it would seem that there may
have been a telepathic or clairvoyant impression as to a present state
of affairs, which involved a supernormal degree of acuteness of intuition
as to the future consequences of that state.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
P. 144. Dream.
Received through the Rev. C. H. Cope, from Miss I. Young. The
account was written in the early part of 1892.
British Institute, 26, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
In the morning of Friday, 29th Marcli, 1889, after heing awakened at
my usual hour for rising, I went to sleep again and dreamt the following :
I was staying with a friend, Mrs. O , and it was by the seaside ; the house
overlooked the sea, the waves nearly washing against the garden wall. It
was a bright clear day and I was standing close to the wall watching in the
distance two vessels on the sea, one having left the place I was at, and the
other advancing from the opposite shore. To my surprise I saw that neither
vessel, as they neared each other, seemed to make room for the other, and
then to my horror one dashed into the other, cutting her in half. I saw the
boiler burst of the injured vessel, throw up fragments and thick black smoke ;
I saw the passengers hurled into the water making frantic attempts to save
themselves. I especially noticed hats and other things floating on the water,
and then suddenly two bodies were washed up at my feet, and I woke and
found it was nearly 8.30 a.m. The dream made a vivid impression on me,
and I could not shake oflT the feeling of liorror I had experienced all through
it. That same afternoon news came from Ostend of a terrible catastrophe
in the Channel, the two vessels, Princesses Henriette and Josephine, cross-
ing via Ostend and Dover, had come into collision that same morning at
10 a.m.,* the one had cut theotlier in half just as I had seen it in my dream ;
indeed, the circumstances were the same. I knew no one on board, but the
lady with whom, in my dream, I was staying , had three relatives on board ;
one was drowned and the other two saved. Isabella Young.
The friend with whom Miss Young was staying at the time, Mrs.
C. E. Jenkins, writes : —
I certify that the above-mentioned dream was related to me about an
hour after she had dreamt it, by Miss Young. M. G. Jenkins.
In answer to a further question, Mrs. Jenkins writes :
British Institute, 26, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Man 3'-rf, 1892.
Dear Sir, —In answer to your card to Mr. Cope, forwarded to me this
morning, I beg to confirm that Miss I. G. Young relattd her dream to me
about the collision before we had heard anytlilng of it, and that the news
came that afternoon. Meliora G. Jenkins.
(Hon. Lady Superintendent,
British Institute, Brussels.)
We give below some account of the events, as related in the Times.
From the Tirnes, March 30th, 1889 (Saturday) :—
" A Channel Packet Missinq.
" Up to 12 o'clock last night the mail and passenger steamer which left
Ostend for Dover at 10 o'clock yesterday morning had not arrived. The
vessel (the Comtesse de Flandre) was due at Dover at 2.30. There was a
*Really later in the day, as steamers cross about midday.—C. H. CoPE.
July, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 117
slight fog close in shore, but the Calais boat, which arrived last evening, re-
ported that it was tolerably clear out in the Channel. Great anxiety was
felt at Dover last night as to the steamer's safety, and signal guns were fired
at given intervals."
In the second edition of the Times, same date as above, the follow-
ing appears :
—
" Foundering of an Ostend Mail Steamer (from Lloyd's).
"Lloyd's agent at Ostend telegraphs, under date to-day, 7.30 a.m., that
the mail boats the Princess Henriette, from Dover, and the Comiesse de
Flandre, from Ostend, were in collision yesterday. The Comtesse de
Flandre sank, and 11 of the crew, including captain and mate, and three
passengers were drowned. Mails lost.
"The Comtesse de Flandre was a steamer of 500 tons gross, and left
Ostend yesterday morning with mails and passengers for England."
In the Times, Monday, April 1st, 1889, a fuller account appears,
with names of victims, narratives of survivors, &c. Mr. Algernon
Osborn, one of the saved, gives the time of the collision as half-past
one. The Times account is as follows :
—
"ioss of a Mail Steamer.
" A collision of a terrible character occurred in the English Channel on
Friday afternoon between two of the regular steamers plying between Dover
and Ostend. Aa was announced in the Times on Saturday morning, great
anxiety was felt at Dover on Friday night when the packet, the Comtesse de
Flandre, failed to arrive at her appointed time. The packet started from
Ostend at a quarter past 10 on Friday morning for Dover, with 20 passen-
gers and 7 bags of mails. At mid-day the Princess Henriette, a larger and
faster boat than the Comtesse de Flandre, left Dover for Ostend with 15
passengers on board. The weather was thick at the time, but not so dense
as to render navigation very difficult had all possible precautions been
taken. At about a quarter to 2 in the afternoon the officers of the Comtesse
de Flandre saw the Princess Henriette looming througli the mist, and before
any effort could be made to avert the impending disaster the Princess
Henriette crashed into the Comtesse de Flandre's port sponson, cutting
clean through the paddle-box into the engine-room. The fore part of the
vessel broke right away and sank, the boilers exploding directly after the
collision. The whole affair was so terribly sudden that passengers and crew
alike were struggling in the water before they had realised fully what had
occurred "
The account proceeds to describe the steps taken by the Princess
Henriette to save life by lowering boats. Four passengers, the cap-
tain, the jnate, five stokers, three engineers, and one sailor comprise
the list of missing.
P. 145. Dream.
The next case is remote and, unfortunately, no corroboration is
now obtainable. The percipient, Miss K. M. Cleary, wiites, in sending
it :—
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
Albert-road, Carrickfergus, Co. Antrim,
Fcbrnaru 15th, 1892.
I will first state that I am a verj- healthy woman, and have been so all
my life. I am not m the least nervous. My occupation is that of head
teacher in one of the Board's Model Schools.
After giving an account of an occasion when she saw an apparition
of one of her assistants, who was absent at the time, and another
occasion when she saw the apparition of an unknown person, Miss
Cleary says :
When I was about 15 and at a convent boarding school, I dreamt,
without any cause that could inspire it, that my father was ill, of details
connected with it, of his death, of results wliich followed. When the bell
rang for getting up, and the nun came round to wake us, I, who had been
roused from my painful chain of visions, was sitting in my nightdress on the
side of the bed, and so faint-looking that the lady insisted I should return
to bed. But this I would not do. I was too territied, and yet so glad it was
"only a dream." This was Friday. On Sunday morning came the bad
news : "Kate, —Father is very ill ;
pray for him." And so commenced the
chain of sad realities pictured so graphically to me.
In answer to our inquiries. Miss Cleary wrote further :
February 26th, 1892.
In reference to the dream previous to my father's death, you ask me if
I can give further details, dates, and corroboration, and " did it happen at
the beginning of his illness, or before or after it ?
"
Well, I think the only important detail I did not mention, or, at least,
lay stress on, is that it was the sound of the bell for rising which broke the
chain of pictures that were being presented to me—that I was sent for to go
home (we lived in Roscrea, Co. Tipp., where the convent is) ; that I did go
home ; that I turned to go to the bedroom that had always been occupied
by him ; that mother, close behind me, motioned me to an opposite room,
uihich had never been used as a bedroom; that I went in, saw the bed in a
certain position, head towards this wall, foot that ; that Dr. R. was to-
wards the foot of the bed, holding in his hand a white china tea-cup, with
lilac flower pattern—one of a set we had ; that on the window was a very
peculiar new style of lace curtain, the pattern of which I had never seen
anywhere. I dreamt he died, and of the grief and terrible trouble ; and
about this part there was, as it were, a cloud, and one distinct figure loomed
from it—that of an uncle, father's brother, Dr. James Cleary, of Dublin,
(27, N. Earl-street), deceased since. I saw, or felt, that James took my
only brother back with him to Dublin.
Every detail of the dream was verified. Now, with me, this dream is
unique in, if I may express myself so, its span.
The loud, rapid tones of the hand-bell rung in the dormitory roused me,
and mechanically I sprang from bed, scarcely awake ; in a daze or stupor I was
sitting on the side of it. The nun whose duty it was to go from bed to bed
to make sure we had all arisen found me as I described, noted my ap-
pearance, shook me a little, told me 1 seemed very ill, and should lie down
July, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resexirch.
again. This aroused me quite. I would not have gone back to that bed
just then for worlds. I told her I was not ill, that I had been dreaming,
and dreamt that my father was dead; but she " would not listen to such
nonsense, superstition, and folly, &c." (She is dead, and there is no one
who can corroborate.) I may have mentioned it to a companion ;
I did not
attempt to do so again to any of the imns.
At the time I had this dream I had every reason to believe that my
father was in perfect health ; and he was in perfect health. He was medical
doctor to the house. I had seen him a few days before from a window,
walking in the grounds with the Mother or Superioress. He looked then,
as he always did, the embodiment of health and good humour. In com-
paring dates and events afterwards with my mother, who, unhappily, is no
more, I found that the dream occurred ou the eve of hisfirst clai/s indisposition.
He was attending a fever patient some miles from the town, got a severe
wetting, which predisposed him to the infection, which he caught. He was
but 5 days ill. He died on the 19th July, 1853. I am now 52, therefore I
was not so much as 15 when he died. His death changed the whole course
of my life, or, rather, shunted me quite on other lines.
On Wednesday morning I had the dream. On [the] saaie Wednesday he got
the wetting. Wednesday night he felt nervous and unwell, and had a hot foot-
bath before going to bed. Thursday, I preswme he did not go out. I'm sure
he lay for the first time on Friday. Friday evening I first had any intimation
of his illness. Then, my aunt, his sister, who was a nun there and one of my
class mistresses, told me that mother had sent word of it, with a request
that the nuns would pray for him, but she added :
" There is no cause for
alarm." I recollect nothing particular about Saturday.
On Sunday morning 1 was called away from the breakfast table and told
I was to dress for going home, to see my father, who had become worse. I
went and found as I had seen in my dream.
Mother told me afterwards that she was greatly shocked by my standing
as I did at the threshold of the door, and that I seemed not to be able to
keep my eyes from the windows. The ro(jm and everything in the room
was as I had seen them in my dream
.
I know that father had been thinking of me particularly during the early
part of the week in which he took ill, as I had had an earache. He sent me
a drug for it, which cured it at once, but he was not aware of the success of
his remedy. He asked me then, during this interval of consciousness while
I made my short visit, how was the pain in the ear '?
I said :
" Your little
bottle cured it." (I had [the] same little bottle for many years.) He then
kissed me and put his hand on my head and blessed me. The doctor then
almost pulled me away, and told mother to take me from the room.
I remember well how unnaturally calm I was, and this calm, or apparent
insensibility, remained throughout his short illness, and when 1 heard of his
death. Mother used often [to] remark how strange it all was, and how extra-
ordinary that I, who was the only child absent when he became ill, should
be the only one who received his sad farewell, and, as she said, "It was
fitting, too, for I was his favourite child." K. M. Cmary.
It will be observed that the day of the week on which the dream
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
occurred is given difFerently in the two accounts. Whether Dr.
deary's illness had actually begun or not at the time, it appears that
the dream took place during a period when at least there was no reason
for special anxiety about him, even on the part of his family at home,
and when Miss Cleary herself had no reason for anxiety at all.
CORRESPONDENCE.
ON THE PRODUCTION OP SPURIOUS " SPIRIT RAPS."
To the Editor of the .Jolrnal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir, —The so-called "rajis," or percussive sounds, are, as is well
known, one of the most important of the physical phenomena of Spirit-
ualism ;
indeed, I think they were the first to appear in time. It is not my
intention in any way to disparage the existing evidence for them, and I, for
my part, am very much inclined to believe that genuine " spirit rappings
"
do really exist, though I have, as I will presently show, very good grounds
for being sceptical on this point.
It is now about 4 or 5 years since I discovered that I, too, was a good
rapping medium. Very loud raps—such as striking with a small hammer
began to be heard in niy presence, when I was walking about the room or
standing —in good light ; also when I was sitting, but feebler. To satisfy
the curiosity of the " investigators," or, as I said, to convince them of the
genuineness of the phenomenon, I could cause these raps to appear in
different places : now in a table, now in a door, in a mantel-piece, and so
on. Several times I would ask a friend to sit upon my knees to make him
feel sure that not a muscle of my legs moved, and the raps would come all
the same, even louder than usual. And last, not least, after having stood in
all possible ways —now on tiptoe and now on one foot only—I would place
myself upon something soft, e.g., standing upon the cushion of a chair,
and the raps would still be perfectly audible. I have some reason to
believe that had I wished, I might have very easily acquired the reputa-
tion of a powerful physical medium. Some time since I happened to call
on a well-known and highly respectable lady Spiritualist here, and during
our conversation my " unseen guides " suddenly announced their presence
in the usual way. Some sentences were rapj^ed nut, one of them backwards,
to the great amazement of the lady, who spelt out the alphabet. And later
on a still more remarkable test was given, words written in pellets by the
lady being correctly spelt out by the raps. Now I had better say at once
that in this particular case, as well as in general, there was nothing
mediumistic about my raps at all, and that I was the agent consciously and
voluntarily producing them. And yet, when, after having amused myself
at the lady's expense, I thought it my duty to write to her saying it was all
a trick and explaining my modus operandi, not only was she greatly
astonished but even replied as follows: —"Your letter has astonished me
greatly, and were it not you that told me so, I would never have believed
that you could have deceived me. You have a wonderful faculty, for I did
not notice any movement whatever on your part. It is true I did not watch
July, 1893.] Joxbrnol of Society for Psychical Research. 121
your feet very closely, except, however, in one instance, of which I have
been thinking much without being able to understand it. [Then she
describes an experiment in which I caused tlie raps to appear whilst standing
on a remboim-ee chair.] I am perfectly unable to comprehend against what
you could have rapped then; for the sounds did take place, and I heard
them most undoubtedly, as well as you, no doubt. Pray explain in detail
how you did that." &c.
It is time, perhaps, to state plainly what my trick consists of. The raps
in question are produced by the 2nd and 3rd toes of my left foot, with
which I strike the floor violently. Perhaps the word drike is not quite
correct, and I should rather say that I bend and unbend them. Of course,
a person watching my feet very closely will detect the trick with little diffi-
culty ; but standing with the back to the light, or even en jrrofile, but so as
to let the light fall upon the right foot, leaving the left in the shade, will
make the work of detection far less easy.
Then, if I place my foot against the leg of a table, the raps will,
apparently, come from the table ; and in doing this very little contact is
necessary. For making the raps sound in a door the modus operandi is the
same ; and if the door be made of glass the raps will have a different sound
altogether ; in fact, if the foot be conveniently placed the raps will have the
same sound as if they did actually proceed from the object in question.
The size of the room makes a great difference in the loudness of the raps :
the smaller the room the louder the sounds. One of the "favourable con-
ditions " is also to have the muscles of the foot strained as much as possible.
Thus, standing upon the left foot only, or leaning upon it, or sitting cross-
legged with the knees propped violently against the table will not hinder
the raps—on the contrary.
Now, with the exception of the lady above referred to, I have never
attributed to my raps a supernatural origin, and still, in more than one
case, the friend to whom I showed them was unable to detect their origin.
Now, had I always pretended to be a medium, it is quite possible that my
modus operandi would never have been detected. " Spirits " might retire
or refuse to act, and so on, as the " investigator " became too inquisitive, and
no blame could have been thrown on me, whilst with myself as the avowed
agent producing the "phenomena," no such excuse was possible.
1 may add that during a short stay I made in England last summer I
showed my raps to several of the leading members of our Society, such as
Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick, Mr. W. Leaf, and Mr. G. A. Smith. I have
thought it worth while to put the subject in writing, for 1 have no doubt
that such a faculty is very rare, and, besides, may possibly give a clue to
some apparently inexplicable performances of professional mediums. In
conclusion I must state again my belief that there do exist raps of an alto-
gether different origin from those I produce and have described.—I am,
dear sir, yours very truly, Michael Petrovo-Solovovo.
9, Mohovaia, St. Petersburg.
May 24:th-June 5th, 1893.
P.S. —As for the raps being heard whilst I was standing upon a soft chair,
they were produced in that case by my toes striking against the sole of the
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
boot. Of course, with a little exertion I might produce them with my right
foot just as well, only in that case the efiect is much more visible. —M.P.S.
MR. MYERS ON THE MECHANISM OP HYSTERIA.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —I should be glad, if permitted, to write a few lines sviggested by
the first part of Mr. Myers' paper, having been prevented from attending
the meeting at which it was read. I allude to that part of it in which he
speaks of sensory and motor automatism as forming the basis of the psychical
scheme.
The crude partition of nervous action into motor and sensory is, as he
remarks, unsatisfactory. All nervous centres are kinesthetic and the circle
of nervous action is continuous throughout. Let us trace its continuity in
respect of a simple voluntary action, and then see how it bears upon the
question of automatism.
I see, let us suppose, a ripe peach hanging on a wall ; this suggests the
act of plucking it. That is, the sensation of roundness, colour, &c., which
experience associates with a certain flavour, provokes the motor act. But
the act, when accomplished, in turn conveys a sensation of muscular move-
ment ; and thus the motor suggestion becomes in turn a sensory experience.
In fact, the first suggestion, in the mind, of plucking the peach, is a rehearsal
of the accomplished act, i.e., of the sensations which the act produces.
But it is evident that all day long, sensations are being presented to us
which are not strong enough to reach the level of consciousness. Thus, as
we walk the streets, or scan the sheets of a nevpspaper, names, notices, and
advertisements pass before our eyes, of the great bulk of which we are
mercifully unconscious. But this is not necessarily because the stimulus is
too weak, absolutely, but because it is relatively inadequate to make itself
felt among the complex of sensations to which our attention is consciously
directed. If, however, we had no such preoccupation, and if the name,
number, or whatever it is, came before our eyes singly, we could scarcely
avoid noticing it, and even as it is, it may so nearly have gained our atten-
tion that, when reminded of it, we are conscious of having seen it before.
Here we are on the borderland of automatism. But now taking the case
where no conscious memoi'y can be evoked, what happens '? The stimulus
remains latent until the cessation of conflicting impulses permits it to
make itself felt. In the case of motor automatism this occurs when the hand
is allowed to lie passive on the planchette, and the conscious attention is
prevented from interfering, by being withdrawn to other topics. Hence
follow those experiments in which the subject reads from a book while his
hand is tracing the automatic message. The object is to withdraw the
higher centres from participation in the manual act which would mar the
effect of the weak stimulus we are considering. The hand then performs
the motor act of which the abortive sensory suggestion had been made
perhaps weeks, or months, before. Or there may be a sequence of stimuli
each too weak to act singly, but which in the sum total may overflow into a
conscious voluntary act.
The case is quite different with sensory automatism, in that to produce
July, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 123
the passive abstraction which is desirable, all conflicting sensory stimuli
must be withdrawn, hence, perhaps, the frequency of hallucinations in the
stillness and darkness of the night—although it must be confessed that this
relative frequency is not as great as we should have, a priori, expected. In
sensory automatism we may suppose that the impulse, instead of taking the
motor path, expends itself in sensations of a character either identical with,
or correlated to, that from which the stimulus originally proceeded.
In both motor and sensory automatisnr we thus realise only the second of
the two sensory processes which I endeavoured to illustrate in the case of
plucking a peach. The initial sensory impulse is lost sight of, and the
automatic message appears to us as though coming from a source external to
our own organism ; and this idea, once entertained, may itself operate sug-
gestively, and impart to the message an assumed character, spiritistic,
supernatural, or what not.
So far we seem to trace, with some approach to clearness, the history of
sensori-motor automatism, when originating, and expending itself within the
organism. But with the introduction of an assumed external agent, acting
telepathically, we enter upon different ground altogether. Nevertheless,
after the first stimulus, from wheresoever proceeding, is received, the
mechanism is probably the same. The whole difficulty consists in consider-
ing how a sensory stimulus can be centrally initiated, ah extra, without its
adopting the usual afferent nervous path from the end organs of the senses.
And here, in default of any scientific explanation of how this can be, we
must rely upon evidence of the fact, and upon evidence alone. It is nothing
new in science that facts should be accepted which cannot be accounted for.
It was known, and universally admitted, that scarlet fever was epidemic, and
that vaccination was prophylactic, long before the modern theory of zymotic
disease was so much as dreamt of.
I cannot follow Mr. Myers into quasi-Pythagorean speculations, Init
there is one point on which I should like to throw out a suggestion for his
consideration. He seems to look forward to a future state of added joowers,
intensified perceptions, and extended faculties, whether new, or resurgent
from some ante-natal past, it matters not. But may not the case rather be
that with the putting off of the mortal coil we may also divest ourselves of the
portion of our being which in a thousand ways blinds our intellect, con-
founds our judgment, and misleads our moral sense ? Some meaning of
this sort seems to be involved in the expression—"to see things in the light
of eternity "—and some approach to it surely is to be fotmd in the in-
genuousness of childhood, before the conventionalities, the artifices, and the
insincerities of adult life have, by constant repetition, become a second
nature. In a world where jjossibly the thoughts of the heart are as open to
observation as the features of the face are now, a difference of moral
standard, perhaps also of moral achievement, would result greater than we
can even imagine ; and this increase of intuitive power might proceed, not
from added faculties, but from the removal of the carnal framework which,
while the building up of the spiritual temple is progressing, hides it like
scaffolding from view, and which, when removed, will display the completed
fabric in its full proportions and thenceforth immutable outline.
Thomas Barkworth,
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1893.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Continued from tJie June Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
ivill he gratefidly received.
B G 89. Mr. H. (1) in 1851 wakes and sees apparition of elderly man in
grey clothes, holding a liglit, by which he r.oticesthe position in which he had
placed his own gun. He afterwards finds that a man resembling the appari-
tion had killed himself in that room. (2) In about 1881 he is disturbed
many times in one night by the impression that an " uncanny " being is
opening his curtains and gazing at him. Another man, sleeping in the same
room, tells him next morning that he saw a figure walking up and down the
room all night, occasionally looking in through his curtains. Both incidents
recorded in 1891.
B G 90. Collective, visual.—Capfain E. B., his wife, and butler, when
out driving one evening in the Highlands, saw an apparition. Captain B.
heard afterwards (?) from a brother ofhcer that he had seen " exactly the
same thing " a year previously in the same place. No details given. Date,
1891. Recorded January, 1892.
B G 91.— The Rev. John Douglas sees an apparition of a woman whom
he knows at the door of her husband's house ; she passes him so close as to
touch him, but he feels nothing, and she then vanishes. He hears next
morning that she had died seven weeks before. Date, about 50 years ago.
Also an account of a subjective visual hallucination and noises heard in a
" haunted " house. [The first case is referred to in connection with L 872,
printed in Journal S.P.R., Vol. V., p. 52, the percipient in which is Mr.
Douglas's daughter.]
B G 92. Collective, visual.— (1) Captain O'Donnelland his sister, when
children, see in their bedroom a skeleton, which walks away and disappears
into a cupboard. Date, about 1868. (2) He hears sounds at same time
that person in s?ime room sees apparition. Undated. Both recorded 1891.
(No answer to further inquiries.
B G 93. Visual. From Mrs. Meredith. —Miss D. sees apparition of man
in blue cloth cloak with gold clasp and hat on sitting in a chair ;
sits down on
its lap and it disappears. Some months later the body of a man in similar
dress was found near the house. He had left his home 18 months before,
and apparently committed suicide there. Date of record, 1857, when the
incident was said to have happened "very long ago." Percipient is no
longer living.
B G 94. Collective noises and quasi-collective apparition. — (1) The
Rev. A. W. Webb camping out with a driver in Australia, both hear horrible
shrieks all night on a bare plain, where, apparently, there are no animals or
people. They heard next day a tradition of a murder having been com-
mitted there. Date, about 30 years ago. (2) When staying in a friend's
house he woke suddenly and saw black figure walk across room and dis-
appear into the wall. Next morning one of the daughters of the house told
him she had seen a black figure standing by her bed. He then heard that a
servant had seen a black figure standing in a passage late that night. Date,
about 30 years ago. Both cases recorded in 1891.
BG 95. From Mrs. Ridgeway. —The Rev. C. J. Eliot, in 1873, .saw
figure of lady in yellow muslin dress sitting at foot of his bed at .
Others in house afterwards saw the figure independently. [Request for
their evidence unanswered.] Mr. Eliot also saw an apparition walking up-
stairs in his vicarage about 5 years ago. Date of recordj February, 1891,
No. CIlI.-VoL. VI. Oct., 189?.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates
Jleeting of the Council
Tlie Congress of Psychical Science at Chicago .
.
Cases Supplied to the Literary Committee
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Bigg, Miss Louisa, Lyndhurst, Luton.
Eeilding, The Lady Louisa, 23, Princes-gate, London, S.W.
Hooper, Mrs. Pitman, 11, Bulstrode-street, Manchester-square, W.
Noel-Cox, Herbert L. N.,2, Edinburgh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
Browne, Mrs. Walter P., Bidston, AUeyn-road, West Duhvich, S.E.
BuNSHAW, N. P., Medical Officer, B.G.J. P. Railway, Ghadechi,
Kathiawar, India.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., CHiford House, Wellington, Somerset.
Eustace, Miss Grace, Castlemore, Tullow, co. Carlow, Ireland.
Forrester, Mrs., Gavell House, Kilsyth, N.B.
Gordigiani, Edward, 50, Via Degli Alfani, Florence.
Hamilton, Colonel Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, co. Down, Ireland.
Lovell, Reginald H., 449, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, M.A., Woodford Bridge, Essex.
Ridley, Frank C, 17, Margaret-street, London, W.
Sajous, Charles E., M.D., 28, Rue de Madrid, Paris.
Salmond, Percy N., Captain 3rd Royal Scots, Eldermere, Ilkley.
Samaldas, Lalubhai, Chief Revenue Officer, Bhavnager, Bombay
Presidency, India.
ScHWABE, Mrs. G. S., 3, Upper Belgrave-road, Clifton, Bristol.
Traherne, Mrs., Coedriglan Park, Cardiff.
Van Eeden, Frederick, M.D., Bussum, Holland.
Van Renterghem, G., M.D., 251, Kaisergracht, Amsterdam.
PAGE
. 125
, 126
. 126
. 129
. 140
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct,1803.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ASSOCIATES.
Austin, Mrs. George, Morris Plains, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Caulkins, Silas, Soldiers' Home, Los Angelos, California, U.S.A.
Greene, Miss, Hotel Brunswick, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hayward, Alvinza, 224, California-street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
Heywood, George, Gardner, Mass., U.S.A.
Nye, William B., Columbia College, New York City, U.S.A.
Schiefpelin, Mrs. W. H., 242, E. 15th-street, New York City, U.S.A.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Riverside, Cook County, 111., U.S.A.
Shinn, Miss Hattie A., Room 46, 115, Monroe-st., Chicago, III, U.S.A.
Stilwell, MaryH ,
D.D.S.,1,.300, Arch-street, Philadelphia, Pa.,U.S.A.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on October Gth. Colonel J.
Hartley was voted to the chair. There were also present—Dr. A. T.
Myers and Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Leaf, P. W. H. Myers, P.
Podmore, S. C. Scott, H. Arthur Smith, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Four new Members and seventeen new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of ten new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
At the request of Mrs. McAlpine her name was transferred from
the list of Members to that of Associates.
A vote of thanks was accorded to the donors for presents to the
Library.
It was agreed that a Committee be formed, consisting of Dr. A. T.
Myers and Messrs. T. Barkworth, A. W. Barrett, W. Leaf, and
P. Podmore, with power to add to their numbei-, for conducting
experiments in Hypnotism and Telepathy.
A^arious matters of business having been disposed of, the next
Meeting of the Council was fixed for October 27th, at 3 p.m., at the
Westminster Town Hali.
THE CONGRESS OP PSYCHICAL SCIENCE AT CHICAGO.
A Congress on "Psychical Science "was held, as announced, at
Chicago in xVugust, in connection with the " World's Congre.ss
Auxiliary of the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893." It may be
remembered that this Congress was planned by the late Colonel Bundy,
Oct., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 127
then editor of the SeJigio-Philosojyhical Journal of Chicago, and
known to our readers as a man of great probity and courage,
who, while himself convinced of the truth of some " Spiritualistic
"
facts and communications, spared nevertheless neither money nor
trouble in unmasking the fraudulent " mediums " who have done so
much to bring discredit on all forms of psychical research in the United
States. He invited our Society to co-operate in this Congress ; and
our Council, anxious to show their appreciation of Colonel Bundy's
straightforward work, authorised me to attend the Congress as its
representative, and to read such papers as members of the Council
might entrust to me. Colonel Bundy died somewhat suddenly on
August 6th, 1892, and Professor Elliott Coues was selected by the
officials of the World's Congress Auxiliary to succeed him as Chair-
man, Dr. Richard Hodgson, our Secretary for America, succeeding
Professor Coues as Vice-Chairman. The " Committee on a Psychical
Science Congress " included various names well known and honoured
in Chicago. A Ladies' Committee was also formed, at the head of
which was Mrs. Bundy, Colonel Bundy's widow, who has succeeded him
in the editorship of the Religio-Pliilosophiccd Journal. The Congress
assembled on Mondaj^, August 21st, and sat twice or thrice a day, con-
cluding its sessions on Friday evening, August 25th. The attendance
was unexpectedly large, varying, I believe, from about five hundred to
about a thousand persons. Their continued attention was the more
gratifying inasmuch as the Congress, overflowing the quiet and con-
venient hall first assigned to it in the Memorial Art Palace at Chicago,
had to be held in a huge temporary hall of bad acoustic properties,
and exposed to the almost continuous noise of a large adjacent railway
station.
The papers sent from England were mainly occupied with the
recapitulation in popular form of results already published. Dr. Leaf
sent " Elementary Hints on Experimental Hypnotism," and a paper
on " Mme. Blavatsky and M. Solovyolf "
; Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick
sent a paper on "Veridical Hallucinations as a Part of the Evidence
for Telepathy " ; Mr. Podmore a paper on " Experimental Thought-
Transference," and Professor Lodge a paper on " The difficulty of
making crucial experiments as to the source of the extra or unusual
intelligence manifested in trance-speech, automatic writing, and other
states of apparent mental inactivity." Dr. Hodgson addressed the Con-
gress on "Human Testimony in Relation to Psychical Phenomena," and
I upon " The Subliminal Self " and " The Evidence for Man's Survival
after Death." It is hoped that these papers, presenting a kind of elemen-
tary survey of the main fields of the Society's work, may be printed
together in a form convenient for students. Among papers containing
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.,
matter of evidential interest I may mention a report by Profesior and
Mrs. Coues " On the Alleged Movement of Objects without Mechanical
Contact," giving an account of some private experiments ;
papers by Mr,
and Mrs. Underwood, containing the record of automatic writings of
which mention has already been made in our Proceedings ;
a paper
by Mrs. Kuntz Rees on "Experimental Crystal-Gazing," and one by
Dr. Wiltse on "Some Experiments in Thought-Transference, and their
Significance." Dr. Finzi, in whose house the well-known Milan series
of experiments with Eusapia Paladino was carried out, was present,
and gave an account of those experiments fully concordant with Pro-
fessor Richet's description, already noticed in our Proceedings. Our
corresponding member in Brazil, Professor Alexander, sent a long
and careful account of psychical phenomena in that country ;
an account
which will, I hope, be printed. Finally, Judge A. H. Dailey read part
of an interesting and important monograph—which is, I trust, soon to
appear in book form—upon Miss Mollie Fancher, an invalid lady who
has long been well known by report to students of our subjects as
exhibiting various supernormal powers, but of whom no adequate
account has yet been published. Among other papers of interest I
may mention that on " The Spiritualistic Interpretation of Psychic
Phenomena," by the Rev. Minot J. Savage; that on "Memory in
Relation to Psychical Experiences," by Mr. Charles Whedon ;
that on
" So-called Spirit-Photographs," by Professor Coues ;
that on " Hypnotic
Suggestion," by Dr. C. G. Davis ; on " The Etiological Significance of
He°teroceneous Personality," by Dr. Smith Baker; on "The Theosophical
Society—a Critical Historical Review," by Mr. W. Emmette Coleman ;
on "The History of Spiritualism," by Mr. A. R. Wallace;^ on
"Dreams, considered from the Standpoint of Psychical Science," by
Dr. Edmund Montgomery ; and on "The Relation of Consciousness to
its Physical Basis," by Professor E. D. Cope.
These and other papers have for the most part been reported at
considerable length in the Religio-Philosophiccd Journal, which was
the official organ of the Congress. The question of the subsequent
publication of all or any of them in a more permanent form is not yet
decided.
The Congress was, I believe, regarded at Chicago as successful; and
it certainly supplied a most encouraging indication of the serious and
growing interest taken in our studies in a city which has a perhaps
unique claim to represent the future of the Western World. While, of
course, our Society was not identified with the Congress in any way
beyond the fact that one of its Secretaries was Yice-Chairman, and
another was present to represent the Council of the S.P.R., we may
nevertheless hope that collaborators of value will be won for us by
OoT, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research..
the opportunities of setting forth the Society's modes of experiment,
and evidential standards, which this great assemblage afforded. Per-
sonally, Dr. Hodgsoa and I owe sincere thanks to various friends, and
especially to Mr. Lyman J. Gage, for help and encouragement of the
utmost value. Frederic W. H. Myers.
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
We "ive below a number of cases of apparitions seen—or, in the
last instance, a voice [heard—collectively. It is difficult to apply to
these cases, as described, the explanation of mistaken identity, and no
other alternative view of them seems possible.
In the first two an apparition of the same person is seen more
than once. In the first case additional evidence of the hallucinatory
character of the figure seen is afi^orded by the details having been
more clearly discernible than those of a real figure at the same distance
would have been, and also by the second appearance, where there was
transportation of scene.
L, 958. Collective Apparition.
From the Misses H. M. and L. Bourne.
Miss L. Bourne writes :
—
"On February 5th, 1887, my father, sister, and I went out hunting.
About the middle of the day my sister and I decided to return home with
the coachman, while my father went on. Somebody came and spoke to us,
and delayed us for a few moments. As we were turning to go home, we
distinctly saw my father, waving his hat to us and signing us to follow lum.
He was on the side of a small hill, and there was a dip between him and us.
My sister, the coachman, and myself all recognised my father, and also the
horse. The horse looked so dirty and shaken that the coachman remarked
he thought there had been a nasty accident. As my father waved his hat
I clearly saw the Lincoln and Bennett mark inside, though from the distance
we were apart it ouglit to have been utterly impossible for me to have
seen it. At the time I mentioned seeing the mark in the hat, though the
strangeness of seeing it did not strike me till afterwards.
"Fearing an accident, we hurried down the hill. From the nature of
the ground we had to lose sight of my father, but it took us very few
seconds to reach the place where we had seen him. When we got there,
there was no sign of him anywhere, nor could we see anyone iii sight at all.
We rode about for some time looking for him, but could not see or hear
anything of him. We all reached home within a quarter of an hour of each
other. My father then told us he had never been in the field, nor near the
field, in which we thought we saw him, the whole of that day. He had
never waved to us, and had met with no accident.
" My father was riding the only white horse that was out that day.
" Louisa Bourne.
" H, M. BouRjfE,"
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oox., 1803.
The second signature was added later, with the words :
" This was
written by my sister and me together."
Miss H. M. Bourne enclosed the above in the following letter to Mrs.
Dent, to whom we are indebted for the case : —
'
' Weston Subedge, Broadway, Worcestershire.
''Mcnj21st, 1891.
"My dear Mrs. Dent, —Louisa has asked me to send you the enclosed
account of the impression she, the coachman, and I had of seeing papa on
Paddy in the hunting-field. It was on the 5th February, 1887, it happened,
and in March the same year, when I was out walking alone, I thought I
saw papa and Paddy stop at a little plantation of his close to, and look at
the wall, which had fallen in [in] one part. He then appeared to ride a few
yards towards me, but afterwards turned round and went back past the
plantation and out of sight. When I went in I asked him if he had not
seen me, and why he turned back, when it transpired he had not been past
that plantation all day, but had ridden home another way. He said it must
have been someone else on a white horse, and asked where I was when I
saw him, and then, not before, it dawned on me that it was utterly
impossible to see either plantation or wall from where I was. Since then I
have often been along the same road, and stood, and looked, and wondered
how it was I so distinctly saw the broken wall and papa on the white horse ;
a turn in the road makes my having really done so quite impossible. I am
sorry I cannot give you the exact date of this : I know it was in March,
1887', but cannot remember the day, except that it was not on the 5th. The
other '
experience ' is, I always think, far more interesting, as having been
seen by three, and also from the fact that Paddy was the only white or grey
horse in the hunting-field that day ; so that unbelievers could not say it was
someone else on a white horse that we had mistaken, , , ,
"Nina M. Bourne,"
Mrs. Sidgwick writes :
''Feirucmj 25th, 1892.
" I saw Miss H. Bourne and her father this afternoon. Miss
Bourne told me the stories of her seeing her father, first with her sister,
and later by herself, and signed the account which she and her sister
had, she says, made out together about it. The groom who saw the figure
at the same time has since been dismissed, and cannot be asked for his
evidence. Canon Bourne remembers hearing of the matter the day it
happened. The groom rode up to the ladies as they were looking, and
said :
'
The Canon is beckoning. Miss, and I think you had better go to
him ;
his horse looks as if he had had a fall ' (that is, muddy). The figure
was beckoning to them with their father's usual (and peculiar) gesture. He
is a heavy man, and his white horse, adapted to carry weiglit, was quite
unlike any other horse in the neighbourhood. Everyone agrees as to the
impossibility of mistaking the horse. The horses of the neighbourhood
were well known to the neighbourhood in general and to the Miss
Bournes in particular, as they were at that time constantly out with the
hounds. The incident seems quite unaccountable."
Oct., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
L. 959. Collective Apparition.
The nest case, obtained through the kindness of Mrs. Shield,
relates to apparitions of the Rev. H. Hasted, of Pitsea Rectory, Essex,
which were seen by several different percipients, in two instances
collectively. The first account is given by two of Mr. Hasted's
servants,
'
' Pitsea Rectory,
''March 17th, 10.40a.m. [1892].
" Yesterday, at half-past eleven, N., the rat-catcher, came to see master,
who was out. We looked at the clock to tell N. when we thought he could
see master, who had ordered luncheon at 12.15. We were both outside the
door when N. came. He was in a cart and had with him two dogs. He
drove on, and Mrs. Watts, looking down the road, said, ' Here comes the
master '. '
Then I saw him too, his dog with him. N. had just got
below the front gate. We watched to see them meet ;
wondered why
N. did not stop to speak, as he wanted to see master. He drove right on.
About that time we lost master ; couldn't think where he was, but fancied
he must have gone to Wilson's house. Wilson himself was standing lower
down, where the roads meet. We still watched, and when we couldn t
see him (master) come out we went indoors.
"When Mr. Hasted came home I wasn't going to say anything, but
Mrs. Watts asked if he had seen N., who wanted to tell him about a
puppy. He said he had been at Mr. Williams's, and all the story came out.
"Eliza Smallbone.
" Jane Watts."
Mrs. Shield writes :—
" 3Iarc]i mh, 10 i).m.
" This foreiroon for upwards of an hour, Mr. Hasted was here [at Mr.
Williams's] and I think it was from eleven to past twelve. He was writing and
conversing. We met him again at the evening service, and he walked back
with us. At supper he related the curious circumstance [of his having been
seen by the two servants]. Of all people in the world one would think
these old servants are the very least likely to make a mistake, and the road
is straight and not long, nor is it much frequented."
After making inquiries the next day, Mrs. Shield wrote further :—
"Mrs. Watts, the cook-housekeeper, was not at home, but I saw Mr.
Hasted after taking down Ehza's evidence. He was expecting me, and told
me Wilson would certify that he was where the women saw him, and that
no person at all went up the lane. He saw N. drive down.
" Eliza thought it quite impossible they could make a mistake as to the
person they saw, and everyone here says the same. No one would expect
to see him without his dog, but, in fact, the dog was here with hun."
The next account comes from two of Mrs. Shield's nieces. They
sprite
" We saw Mr. Hasted distinctly in his everyday appearance coming
up the carriage drive to the house ; watched him a few moments approaching
the inner gate, and, not wishing to be seen ourselves, we hid among
the shrubs by which he must pass. After waiting till we were impatient
132 Journal of Sooieti/ for Psychical Research. Oct^jisos
we looked out, could see nobbing of him, and aacevtaiuod (buing surprised
at his disappearance) tliat he had not gone to the house by any other way.
[It was] about four o'clock in the afternoon ; summer holidays of 1874 or
1870. We ascertained when we next met him that he had not been in the
direction of our garden at all tliat day.
"Floekxce Mary Williams.
"Lucy Hakriet Williams."
Mr. Hasted adds :—
"Pitsea Rectory, July 22ncl, 1889.
"I beg to confirm Miss Williams's statement. At the time she thought
she saw me I was at least a mile from her.
Mrs. Shield says :
" Of this circumstance I was informed at the time, and remember it well."
Another lady. Miss ,
living at a neighbouring rectory, in 1890,
thought she saw Mr. Hasted ride up to the gate, raise the latch with
the loop of his wliip and stoop down, pushing the gate open. She thought
she recognised the horse also, but found on inquiry that no one had been
to the house. Of this incident we have only a second-hand account, as
the lady dislikes the subject, and objects to writing it out herself. It does
not appear to have made much impression on her.
Mrs. Sidgwick writes :
''April 4:th, 1892.
"I have to-day seen Mr. Hasted and the site of three of his appearances,
as well as Miss Florence Williams, who was one of the percipients on the
first occasion, and Mr. Hasted's two servants who were the percipients on
the last occasion—last month.
"The appearance to Miss does not appear to me to come to very
much, on account of distance and shrubs, which must have obstructed the
view not a little. Miss is said, however, to have recognised the horse
a light-coloured one, unlike any others in tlie neighbourhood.
"The appearance to the servants, though out-of-doors and at a consi:ler-
able distance, is certainly remarkable. They stood at the back door of the
house, looking down tlie lane after tlie rat-catcher. The lane is perfectly
straight and open, and, say, 100 yards long or 150, to where it joins
another road at right angles. At the end of this lane the cook saw Mr.
Hasted and his dog coming towards the house, and almost before she
called her fellow-servant's attention to him the latter saw him too. They
saw him pass the groom's (Wilson's) cottage, which is near the end of the
lane, and anticipated his meeting the rat-catclier and the latter stopping to
speak to him. The rat-catcher's cart presently hid him from view, and when
he should have appeared on their side of the cart he was gone. They were
surprised, but supposed he must have turned and gone into Wilson's cottage,
and thought no more of it. Wilson, however (whom I also saw), was
standing all the time at the end of the lane, and he is quite positive that
there was no one whatever in the lane at the time except the rat-catcher.
Mr. Hasted's peculiar way of walking and swinging his stick was noticed.
His dog is a brown and wliite spaniel, and there is no other like it in the
neighbourhood except one kept tied up. The servants say they noticed this
Oor., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 133
dog and tlie rafc-catcher's two dogs all at the same time. They struck me as
good witnesses. It is certain that it could not have been Mr. Hasted him-
self because the servants had noticed the time just before (11.35) in order to
tell the rat-catcher when they thought their master would be in, and at that
time Mr. Hasted was with Miss F. Williams and Mrs. Shield at Bowers
Gilford, and they also noted the time. Mr. Hasted was hurrying through
some work, wondering whether he should get it done in time to go home for
lunch at 12.15.
" When Miss F. Williams and her sister (as children) saw him, he was
also coming along a straight road, the approach to the Rectory, towards
them. They watched him through some bushes as he approached. When
he got up to the garden gate, they withdrew more behind the bushes
that he might not see them, but neither he nor anyone else passed. The
way to the back door leads off from the garden gate, and it seems just
possible that the person they saw was not Mr. Hasted and was someone
who went to the back door. Their recognition of Mr. Hasted was, however,
very distinct. They do not remember hearing any steps going towards the
back door; they believe that they asked, and found that no one had gone
there. It was a good many years ago.
"Mr. Hasted was also, we were told, supposed to have been seen on
the beach at Bournemouth by a lady friend lately, when he was not at
Bournemouth at all."
G. 238. Collective Apparition.
Obtained through Professor A. Alexander. From Dr., Mrs. and
Mr. E. Rodrigues.*
Dr. Rodrigues writes :
—
" Praca da Princoza Lsabel, 8, Nova Friljurgo.
"l/n/r/i 28f/i, 1892.
'
' I was talking to my wife on the balcony, when I saw the figure of
a lady in a white dress, with her hair hanging down, come from the corridor,
cross over the room, and disappear through the door leading into my study.
My attention was first called by a noise in the room. Place—S. Joao
de Itaborahy, Province of Rio. Vesper hour, one day in the month of
September, 1860 or 1861.
" I was talking to my wife on some ordinary topic. Age at time, 34. I
am now 65. Health and spirits at time good—in all probability, though
I was supposed at the time to have something the matter with my heart.
"We were disposed on the occasion to suppose that our slave, Henri-
queta, had crossed into the study, there being nobody else in the house but
ourselves and this black woman. She was called, and denied having entered
the room. Besides, she was dressed in dark clothes, and had the usual
negro hair. The form, stature, and manner of wearing the hair reminded
me of a friend whom I had lost seven days before. I had been present at
the mass said for her soul on that very day. I had spoken of her a short
time before to my wife, but we had changed the subject of conversation.
* These accounts were written on the "B forms," provided in the Census of
Hallucinations for the lecording of hallucinatory experiences, and are, therefore, in
the form of answers to special questions.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, [Oct,, 1893.
"[The other perlons. present were] my son Eugenio and my wife, who
both shared the experience.
*'[I have ha,d]^*i«"other experience [of this kind].
"Dr. Gandido da Silveika Rodrigues."
•
Testimony of Mrs. Rodrigues.
" March 28ih, 1892.
"I heard,',together with my husband and son, the rusthng of a dress-
such as would bo made by a skirt made of some stiff material— and on turn-
ing I saw the form spoken of by my husband and son. When I called
'
Henriqueta '
it seemed to me to stop a moment by the central table, where
a lamp was burning, and then continued on to the study. Place, Itaborahy,
Province of Rio. Month, September, about 1860 or 1861.
"I was talking with my husband on the balcony. Health and spirits
good. Age at time 27 or 28.
"As nobody else could have come into the room but Henriqueta, T
thought at first it was she. On going into the study, the other door of
which was locked, with the key inside, we found no one. I did not know
the lady whose mass my husband had heard that day.
" My husband and my son Eugenio [were present, and saw the same].
'
' [I have had] no otlier experience [of this kind].
"Maria V. C. S. Robrigtjes."
Testimony of Mr. E. Rodrigues.
"I saw the figure of a lady, with loose hair falling down behind, going
into my father's study. My back was turned at first, and the rustling of a
dress first called my attention. I was in the sitting-room, the windows
of which overlooked the square, seated on a chair facing the balustrade out-
side. Place, S. Joao de Itaborahy, some 10 leagues from Nictheroy. It
was about vesper hour, some 31 years ago, say 1861 or 1860. Month,
September.
"I was looking out into the street, where preparations had been made
for a popular feast. Health and spirits very good. Age about 6 or 7.
" I did not recognise the person who appeared myself. We all supposed
at first it was Henriqueta, one of our slaves. We went into the study,
where the only other door was still closed and locked, with the key inside.
Nobody was there. Henriqueta had the usual negro hair.
" My father, who had just arrived from a journey, was talking with my
mother on the balcony. No one else was present in the room. They both
heard the same sound, and on turning saw the same figure."
In answer to the question on the form, "Please state whether you have
had such an experience more than once," the writer says:
" Once when lying down with my gun beside me in a wood, on the top
of a mountain, I heard my name called twice, ' Silveira.' I replied, and
received no answer, and on looking for the caller, I could find no one in the
neighbourhood. I was in the woods alone. It might have been an illusion
caused by the cry of some bird. I was disposed to attribute it to this
at the time. ^
"E. C. Silveika Rodrigues.
'
' Rua Donna Luiza, 4, Rio.
''March 28th, 1892."
Oct., 1S93,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 135
G. 239. Collective Apparition.
From Miss A. McCaskill.
The account was enclosed in a letter dated July 25th, 1892.
"4, Shakespeare-road, Bedford,
"Last summer [August, 1891] I was paying a visit to some cousins,
who were en pension with a German family, at Cassel. My cousin L. V.
[assumed initials] and I shared a room, known, from the stained window,
as the '
Ritterzimmer.' Our beds occupied almost all one side of the room,
of which I send a rough plan. One night we were late going to bed, and
were not in bed till after 11.30. We went on talking for some time. We
were neither of us the least nervous, nor was our conversation such as to
make us so. I remember we were talking about the opera Robert der Tenfel,
to which we were going next day. We had stopped talking for a few
minutes, and I was lying with my face to the wall, when I was
startled by a scream from my cousin, and, turning round, saw a tall white
figure standing in the room, near L.'s bed. I did not at the time feel
frightened;; my one idea was to find out what strange thing it was. It
turned and came towards my bed, and I distinctly remember noticing that
it made no sound on the polished wood floor. Its eyes were green and
glistening, but the rest of the face seemed muffled up. As soon as it was
close to my bed, I seized it, and seemed to take hold of something soft,
like flimsy drapery, but whatever it was seemed dragged from me by some
invisible power, and the thing literally sank into the floor by my bedside.
L. was in a perfect terror, and her mother, and G. von T., and another
friend were startled by the noise, and came to see what was the matter.
We searched everywhere, but nothing was to be seen. I cannot account
for not feeling afraid of it, especially as afterwards I heartily wished the
night were over. L. knew there was a legend about our room, and that
this apparition was said to come that day once in ten years, but she did
not believe in it, and I knew nothing at all of the story. The people
who had lived in the house before told Frau von T. that they had seen
something twice in that room. They had lived there over 20 years ; but
Frau von T. had not been there long enough to test it before. No one
could possibly have got into the room, as the door was a very noisy one,
close to the foot of my bed. We slept in the room for some time, botli
before and after, but never saw anything more. As my cousin and I
both saw the '
thing, ' I am at a loss to account for it, but I should be
extremely sorry to sleep in that room that day ten years.
"Agnes McCaskill.
" N.B.—My cousin and I wrote out our accounts of this just afterwards,
and her account is a copy of that one."
Miss L. V. writes :
—
'
' My cousin and myself slept together in a room called the Ritter-
zimmer. The room I knew was supposed to be haunted, as an old German
knight had hanged himself there. His portrait was on the glass (stained
window) ; I had always laughed at it, his legs seemed so [much] out of joint.
My cousin and I slept together, and we went to bed rather late one night,
and some one had laughed and said :
'
The ten years are up (the ghost only
136 Journal of Societij for Psychical Reisearcli.. [Oct., 1893.
came once in ten years), you'll sec the ghost to-night.' Well, we hadn't
been in bed over half an hour or so when a strange light appeared, and then
emerged, aijjjarently out of the wall (or stained window, perhaps), a
ghastly figure with green glistening eyes—at least my cousin said they were
green ; I am not sure what colour they were, but, at any rate, they glistened.
I screamed, the figure walked towards my cousin's bed, and seemed to want
to say something. My cousin, however, didn't give the thing a chance, she
courageously seized it, but it pulled the draperies away as if by some
unseen hand, and the whole thing sank, apparently, into the floor. The
dress of the ghost was of a soft and diaphanous substance. We might have
thought that it was one of the girls playing a trick, excepting that the door was
fast shut all the time, there were no cupboards in the room, and at the first
scream they (the girls) both rushed in. B. fancied she saw something white
sink into the floor as they came in. We hunted under the beds and every-
where, but not a trace of it was to be found all night, though we heard
moans and groans. This is a true account of our ghost adventure. One
thing I know, I won't go and sleep in the room nine years hence for a
good deal.
"L. V."
It will be observed from the reference to "nine years hence" in the
last sentence, that the above account cannot have been written, as Miss
McCa.skill supposed, immediately after the event, though Miss V. may
have referred in writing it to the account which Miss McCa.skill thinks
she wrote on the following day.
The plan of tlie room, enclosed, shows two windows opposite to the
door, and the two beds occupying practically the whole wall between the
door and the windows. The stained window was the one next to this wall.
Miss Johnson writes :
—
"February 23rd, 1893.
"Miss McCaskill gave me to-day the following account of her experience
at Cassel.
"She had gone there to visit her cousin. Miss V., who had been
staying there some time and knew tlie story of the haunt. Miss McCaskill
had only been there for a few days at the time, and also had heard of the
room being supposed to be haunted, but neither of them thought anything
of it, or was at all nervous. On this particular evening—in August, 1891—
they had gone to bed late and had afterwards had a great deal of talk, especi-
ally about the opera they were to go to the next day. Almost immediately
after they had left off talking Miss McCaskill, who was lying with her face to
the wall, was startled by a scream by Miss V., who shrieked out, 'There is
something in the room,' or words to that effect. Miss McCaskill turned round
and saw a very tall figure— taller than that of a woman—and completely draped
in white. The white drapery covered the whole of the face, leaving only the
eyes exposed, which were green and glistening. The figure was clearly defined,
but both of them noticed that it was transparent— the wall-paper, &c.,
showing through it. It seemed to come from the direction of the stained window
and moved along by the side of Miss V.'s bed. Then it came up to Miss
McCaskill's bed and bent down over her. She seized its drapery, which felt
soft and gauzy. This seemed to slip through her hands, and the figure
Oct., 189S.] Journal of Society for Psychical EescarcL
suddenly disappeared. The room was brilliantly lighted by tlie moonlight
which came through the plain window. This had no curtains, and only a
small muslin (?) blind over tlio lower part of it. In fact, the room was so
light that Miss McCaskill or her cousin had remarked when the candles were
put out that it was unnecessary to have had them at all—they could have
seen just as well without them. The room was small and bare, with no
hangings behind which anything could have Ijeen concealed. The door was
shut—it always made a great noise in opening or shutting, so that they must
have heard if anyone had come in.
"After the figure disappeared some other members of the household
came at once. The room was searched thoroughly—there was not space
enough under the beds for anyone to have got there, and Miss McCaskill did
not think that anyone could have escaped through the door when it was
opened by the others coming in, without being seen, as the room was so light.
Also, she was certain that she liad actually seen the figure disappear about an
arm's length from her bed before they had come in. Miss McCaskill was
not frightened at the time, but it gave a great shock to Miss V."
Miss Johnson sent these notes to Miss McCaskill for confirmation, and
made a few more inquiries as to some details. Miss McCaskill replied :
—
"As to the door, the handle was close to my bed, so near that I could
easily open it sitting up in bed (and have, in fact, done so). Hence the
impossibility of its being opened or shut unknown to me. Moreover, it was
a particularly noisy arrangement. L.'s head was close to the window—thus
her feet touched the head of my bed, nothing but the iron of the two bed-
steads separating us. Thus I faced the door.
"The transparency is quite correctly described. L. and I both noticed it
independently. I think it was that more than anything else which made me
feel we had to do with something unearthly.
"I did not know that there was any story about the room—my cousin
did, and liad asked me casually some days before whether I believed in
ghosts, to which I replied that I didn't know, but that I myself had never seen
anything. We did not call out for help : it was L.'s first and only scream of
fright which brought her mother. No one else knew anything about it.
G. von T. came to the door some minutes later to know what was the
matter, and we said L. wasn't well. To this day no other member of the house-
hold but Miss Y. 's mother knows anything about it. The 'thing' disappeared
nearer my bed than the middle of the room, about an arm's length, in fact.
I really was too frightened by my cousin's fright to be more than utterly
astonished at the apparition, but I did not enjoy the time after we were
settled down agahi. We never saw anything before or since in the room."
G. 240. Collective Appai'ition.
From the Rev. H. R. Harrison.
"Balne Vicarage, Snaith R.S.O., Yorkshire.
" ilfarc7(. Wt/i, 1892.
'
' About six years ago I was walking one summer evening very late in my
garden with the now rector of Kelvedon, and saw a dark female form in the
churchyard. AVe carefully followed the figure, and saw it vanish.
138 journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., \m.
" We could find no explanation for the phenomenon. No living person
could have escaped us. The churchyard has two gates, and we went to them
and met half-way up the path. I went to the garden entrance and Mr.
Peregrine to the path gate. We then joined, and the figure had disappeared.
No one was about, and anyone would have been caught without a shadow of
doubt.
'
' I am interested in psychology and have my own ideas about the figure,
but Mr. Peregrine is a non-believer in ghosts. I state the bare facts merely.
"H. R. Hakiuson."
Mr. Harrison states that this is the only experience of the kind that he
has had. In answer to a request for an account of his recollections of the
incident, Mr. Peregrine Avrites to Mr. Harrison :
"The Rectory, Kelvedon Hatch, Brentwood.
''March mh, 1892.
'
'
Although I am not a believer in '
common or garden '
ghosts, yet I
think it will be a long time before I shall forget my experience in your
garden at Balne.
"The facts were as follows (as far as [my] recollection goes) :—I think it
was about six years ago ;
you and I were in the garden one evening, about
10 p.m., Avalking up and down, smoking our pipes. When walking towards
the churchyard you suddenly said to me, 'Who's that?' The same object
that attracted your attention had attracted mine before you spoke. There
we saw before us, walking, or perhaps it would bo more correct to say
(jlidmg, at a fair pace, a figure (apparently that of a woman) making its way
across the churchyard. The figure was of a ghostly appearance and of good
height, which, having passed by, suddenly vanished—at a spot I believe I
could go straight to now. Suspecting that it might be some living person,
we hastened to examine the place, but found no traces of any human being
in fact, had it been one, he or she must have got over the brick wall that
divides the churchyard from the field ; and had this been done we must have
seen it.
" D. WiLKiE Peregrine.
Professor Sidgwick writes :
" March 18th, 1892.
" I have just been in the garden and the churchyard with Mr. Harrison.
His recollection is that it was ciuite light enough to see the figure clearly,
though it was 10 p.m. When they saw it they had no idea that it Avas
anything ghostly ;
they entertained no doubt that it was a real woman, but
were surprised to see her not on the path but walking among the graves.
They at once ran, one to the gate into the churchyard from the garden, the
other, jumping over a low wall, into the churchyard by another gate ;
then
they found the woman gone, and for the first time began to think it queer.
The place where they saw the woman was only about half a dozen yards off ;
the distance they had to run not more than eighty paces divided between the
two, so that they 'hardly took their eyes off her,' and cannot conceive how a
real woman should have got away in the time. And it certainly seemed to
me that she must have been seen by one or otlier of the two, assuming—as
Mr. Harrison tliinks—that it was light cnougli.
Oct., 1803.] Journal of Society for Psj/ducal Research.. L39
"Mr. Harrison was convinced that they searched for her sufficiently to
ascertain that she was not hiding in the churcliyard.
" They both had to run along the garden path, with their faces, therefore,
at right angles to the wall between the garden and the churchyard ; but Mr.
Harrison thought that she was '
practically in sight ' from the time that
they first saw her to the time when there was no trace of her."
L. 960. Collective Auditory.
Obtained througli Professor Alexander, from Mr. U. j. da Costa Cabral.*
"Rua Escobar, 48, Rio, Odoher 2Sth, 1891.
" I heard the voice of my sister-in-law calling me by name loudly and
distinctly. I was standing at the gateway—a side entrance to the school—
•
talking with a friend. This was in the Rua Santos Lima, S. Christovao,
Rio. It was evening, and between nine and ten o'clock, on the 19th of
the present month of October (1891). Two names were really pronounced,
my own, Ulysses, and that of my brother-in-law, Bittencourt.
" I was talking with my friend Dr. Silva Santos about hypnotism. I was
in perfect health. Age 37 years.
"The voice was that of my sister-in-law, who lives witli me. We were
moving from one liouse to another, and she was at the time in the old houhe,
away from me. She was awake at the time and either talking or occupied in
household duties. She neither called nor felt any impression whatsoever.
While talking she thought of me in relation to the difficulties of accommoda-
tion for that night.
"Dr. Silva Santos was present and some sixteen of my boys. All heard
the voice, and some of the latter ran along the street to see what had become
of my sister-in-law. Her voice was recognised by all. The houses opposite
were all shut up for the night.
"Ulysses Jose da Costa Cabral."
Mr. Cabral has had one other hallucinatory experience, of an apparently
veridical kind.
Professor Alexander writes :
—
'
' I cross-examined a dozen or so of the boys who Avere jDresent when the
names were heard. They unhesitatingly corroborated the statement of Mr.
Ulysses Cabral, declaring that the voice sounded I:ke that of Donna Amelia,
his sister-in-law. It seemed to come from the corner of the street, yet,
when they ran to see where the caller was, they found nobody. Mr.
Ulysses declares that there is no mimic among the boys, and that, if there
was, he would, with his system of encouraging the greatest confidence
on their part, surely know it.
"Dr. Silva Santos, however, does not recollect hearing the voice. It
either passed unperceived by him or he did not attach sufficient importance
to it for it to impress his memory. It is not so likely he would have recog-
nised tlie voice as that of Donna Amelia. It is worthy of notice that family
names were called which would not probably have been known to a casual
passer in the street."
This account, like G 23S printed above, was written on one of the " B forms "
uf the Census of Halhicinations.
i-iO journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.. i sop.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRICED CASES. '
'
.
{Contimied from tlie July Journal.)
Further information improviny the evidence in any oj these cases
will be (jratefully received.
B G 96. From Mr. U. von Ripperda. 3rd haiul, or more remote.—
Some country people at Ratzeburg, where a iisherman liad been drowned
and his body not yet recovered, saw in the forest a sort of cloud, from which
a voice issued, saying : "Up te dyb ! "—the name of a part of the lake
where the body was found the next day. A full account of the facts is said
to have been deposited m the archives of Ratzeburg. Date, early part of
this century.
BG97. Haunted house. From Miss J., through Mr. 0. Elton.—Miss
J. has reasons for withholding address of house, in the country, m whicli
her sister is awakened by cold hand on her face; two servants and her brother
have impression at different times of large bird flying about bedroom m the
dark ;
footsteps and knockmgs are heard continually ;
two sisters saw door
open mysteriously. Occuirences undated. Recorded 1892.
B G 98. Haunted house. Sent by Mr. Carmichael. —Noises heard con-
stantly. Horrible apparition seen one night by Mr. William Curtis and a
friend together. Account given in letter from Mr. Curtis, saying that
the events happened " three months ago." Undated, but certainly remote.
B G 99. Visual. From Mrs. Lewis Paine.—Mrs. Thomson, living in
Charles Lamb's cottage at Edmonton, sees an apparition of a man in old-
fashioned costume—knee breeches, &c.—standing in the passage one even-
ina Later on the same evening, she recognises a portrait of Charles Lamb
in'a book her husband had bought that day, as representing the man she had
seen. Date, " about 8 years ago."
B G 100. Through Rev. A. T. Fryer.—An account of mysterious bell-
7in<ancr in Ewbank ^Cottage, Loughor, near Swansea, occupied by Mr.
Ridiard James. Apparition of a -'little grey man," seen twice by Mrs
James The bells went on ringing in spite of their wires being cut, and
swunf^ about violently after they had been stuffed with cotton wool to stop
the ringing. Date of events, 1850-1852. Recorded by Mr. James, 1892.
B G 101. Transitional. — Mrs. Stanton, pleeping in American hotel
" some years ago," is twice disturbed by hand stroking her face and voice
sayincr
'"
Oh, mother, mother !
" Next day she learns that young man had
died m that room, crying " Oh, mother, mother !
" and that his b()dy had
been carried out an hour before she took possession of the room. Printed
in the ^hcffiM Independent. September Gth, 1890. Mr. Charles McLaren,
Reform Club, tells us that he thinks ho recollects "Mrs. Stanton relating
the story in question at my table in the presence of the corresponderit of
the paper." Letters addressed to Mrs. Stanton have not been answered.
B G 102 Visual. Through Mr. 0. Murray.—Mrs. N. W. hears noises
and sees a woman in grey in a small house in St. John's Wood. (It was the
last of a row of semi-detached houses in a cnl de sac m the N.W. district.)
Her husband also hen-d noises and independently felt a presence, and told
her that his dog was disturbed. A nurse, whose account we have, also saw
a figure independently, but it does not appear to have been like that seen by
Mrs N W. Noises and footsteps seem to have been heard by all. Mrs.
W iias on other occasions seen apparitions (twice of living people) of which
the accounts are here given. One oi these cases was perhaps veridical.
Date of experiences, 1882. Recorded, 1891.
No. CIV,-VoL. VI. Nov., 1893.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates 141
Meeting of the Council 142
General Meeting 142
Cases Received liy the Literary Committee 144
Correspondence . .
Experiments on the Eificacy of Charms 152
Curing by Mental Suggestion '
154
Certain Cases of Hypnotic Suggestion 155
Committee for the Systematic Investigation of Hypnotic Phenomena 156
A Society for Psychical Research in Australia 156
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Martin, Miss A. E., 3i, Elvaston-place, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Raphael, Mrs. Walter, 7, Bramham-gardens, South Kensington, S.W.
Somerset, Lady Henry, The Priory, Reigate.
Vincent, R. Harry, Fernbanij, Leytonstone. . ..
.
'
ASSOCIATES.
Butt, Lady, 8, Petersham-terrace, Gloucester-road, S.W. ' '
'
Crump, Harold E., M.A., The Chestnuts, St. Margaret's, Twickenham.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, (Retired) Bengal Staff Corjjs, 3, St. Stephen's-
road, Westbourne Park, W.
Hall, George, M.D., CM. Edin., Wyndham Lodge, Milford, Surrey.
Melville, Andrew P., 5, West Castle-road, Merchiston, Edinburgh, -
PuLLEN, Miss, Milton View, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Willard, Miss Frances E,, The Cottage, Reigate.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBER.
Marshall, Rev. A, A., D,D., Crystal Springs, Georgia, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Chapin, F. W., M.D., Hot Springs, Virginia, U.S.A.
HoMMEL, P. A., 794, Second Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
January, Mrs. J. Lindell, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley & Co., London.
142 Journal of Society for PsycUcal Research. [Nqv^^^-
Krekel, Mrs. M.P., c/o Dr. S. Black, Burlington Junction, Mo., U^S.A.
McCuNE, Dr. Ouve F., 53, Olive-st., Brooklyn, New York, U.b.A.
Ormsby, George F., 10, Wall-street, New York City, U.S.A.
Scull, Mrs. H.,The Arizona, 42ncl Greenwood-ave., Chicago, I11.,U.&. A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. -
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Westminster Town Hall
on October 27th. Mr. R. Pearsall Smith was voted to the chair.
There were also present Colonel J. Hartley, Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
and Mr. Sydney C. Scott.
The minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Four new Members and seven new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of one new
Member and seven new Associates of the American Branch, whose
names also appear above, was recorded.
Some other matters of business having been disposed of, the next
Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, December 1st, at 4.30.p.m.,
at 19, Buckingham-street, W.C.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 61st General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall, on Friday, October 27th, at 4 p.m., Mr. Pearsall
Smith in the chair.
Mr Myers gave a short account of his visit to the Psychical
Science Congress at Chicago. As far as communications embodying
matter not hitherto published were concerned, one of the most impor-
tant of those made to the Congress was the report by Judge Dailey ot
clairvoyant and telepathic phenomena observed m the case of the
hysterical patient. Miss Mollie Fancher.
Mr Myers said that while in America, he had also had sittings
with Mrs. Piper, who had previously, owing to ill-health, been obliged
to -ive up receiving sitters for a time. Since her health became
re-established, her trance-utterances have on the whole much improved
in evidential value, the tests given being generally more complete and
satisfactory. She has developed a new control, a young man well
known in Boston and recently dead, who by the tests given as to
his past life and apparent knowledge of circumstances occurring m his
family since, has convinced his nearest relations of his identity. For
instance, his father's actions during two or three consecutive days
were reported contemporaneously through Mrs. Piper, one incident
Nov,, 1893,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 143
being the accidental breaking of a negative of the son's photograph,
and the father's visit to the photographer to replace it. Sonae of
Mrs. Piper's utterances were now given through automatic writing.
Mb. Walter Leaf read a paper, consisting of translations from the
Russian of letters written by Madame Blavatsky in 1874 and 1875 to
Mr. Aksakoff. These letters show that at the beginning of 1874
Madame Blavatsky, who was then in New York, was an avowed and
ardent Spiritualist. Under the difficulties which overwhelmed Spirit-
ualism in America through the "Katie King " exposures, they show
how she and Colonel Olcott were led into starting a Spii'itualist schism,
which produced first the " Miracle Club," and then by a gradual process
of development the Theosophical Society. They further show how, at
a time when Madame Blavatsky, according to the later legend, was and
had for a long time been under the guidance of her masters," [the
Mahatmas of Tliibet, she represented lierself as being advised and
comforted by her "only friend in the world," the "pure spirit," John
King. The earlier steps of the gradual process by which he was
developed into "Mahatma M." were also clearly indicated. The letters
also contain remarkable admissions as to Madame Blavatsky's earlier
life.
Me. Mead, the Secretary of the Theosophical Society, said that as
a persona] friend of Madame Blavatsky's, he was in some respects in a
better position for Judging of tlie letters \\ hich had just been read than
Mr. Leaf. Mr. Leaf, for instance, did not seem to realise that Madame
Blavatsky was very fond of humour. It was true tliat for some time
she had worked with and for Spiritualists, as she once thought that she
would find among them the people she wanted to carry out her ideas. It
had been stated that "the Masters" were an after-thought on her part,
but her own other writings must be considered of equal authority to
any inferences to be drawn from her letters, and there is a sentence in
her diai-y of August, 1851, to the effect that "it was the first time she
had met the Master of her dreams." As to the early history of Madame
Blavatsky, no one really knows what this was. The condemnations of
her were founded merely on inferences from her own words, and it was
her high idea of honour which made her condemn herself for small
things. Mr. Mead concluded l^y an indignant protest against Mr.
Leaf's treatment of the whole subject, asking what would be thought of
the Theosophical Society if it brought similar charges against the private
character of individual members of the Society for Psychical Research.
Mr. Page Hopps maintained that the extracts Mr. Leaf had given
proved nothing in particular, except that Madame Blavatsky was once
an ardent but very independent and rather egotistical Spiritualist, and
that she drifted about as strong moods led. Her vague self-reproaches
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Resectrcli. [Nov. 1893.
went for very little, and those that had been quoted gave us no
material for forming a judgment, even if we had any right to judge.
Mr. F. W. Hayes observed that nothing had been said as to why
this information had been so long withheld from the public, and asked
why it had not been pubhshed before Madame Blavatsky's death,
Mr. Leaf replied that in February, 1886, the letters he referred to
had been brought before the Paris branch of the Theosophical Society
and had led to its dissolution.
Me. Peaesall Smith remarked, witli reference to Mr. Mead's
comments, that in the case, for instance, of Mormonism, there had
been much point in inquiring into the personal character of its
founders.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers pointed out in reply to Mr. Mead that the
inquiry into Madame Blavatsky's personal character, and into the tenets
which she had at given dates professed, bore directly upon the genuine-
ness of the transcendental phenomena which she claimed to exhibit,
and upon the veracity of the statements as to communication with
higher intelligences which she used those phenomena to support.
Madame Blavatsky stood, in this respect, on an entirely different
footing from that occupied by ordinary students, who made no claim to
transcendental powers of their own. The exceptional claim involved
exceptional scrutiny. He was now about to read a paper on Mr.
Stainton Moses' phenomena ; and although Mr. Moses had been for
many years a friend of his own, and he (the speaker) had no personal
doubt of Mr. Moses' probity, it would be seen that he had thought it
right to analyse Mr. Moses' character and career in detail, so as to give
all the material in his power for an independent judgment on his
hearers' part as to whether Mr. Moses was to be trusted or no.
Mr. Myers then began a paper on " The Experiences of W. Stainton
Moses,"and described in detail the printed, manuscript, and oral evidence
to which he had had access. This included the concurrent, concordant,
and contemporary testimony of Mr. Moses himself. Dr. Speer, Mrs.
Speer, and, for many of the incidents, of Mr. F, W. Percival. The
testimony of Mr. Charlton Speer would, he hoped, be added at the next
meeting. The time now available did not suffice for more than a brief
enumeration of the leading classes of transcendental physical phe-
nomena with which that evidence would deal in detail.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
We give below two cases of apparitions seen collectively, which
present some features of special interest. In the first, different but
corresponding aspects of the figure are seen by the two percipients —
Nov., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 145
in much the same way that a real person might be seen by two
persons—one seeing a profile and the other a back view and at the
same time a reflection of the face of the apparition in the mirror in
front of it.
In the second case, the apparition also presents different aspects
to the two percipients, who are some distance apart, but there is a
marked lack of correspondence between the aspects. One percipient
sees a figure facing her in one place. Immediately after she loses sight
of it, the other, some way behind her, sees the back of a similar figure
in another place.
Both the cases are comparatively recent, and seem to have been
carefully observed and reported.
G. '241. Collective Apparition.
Mr. Barkworth writes :
—
The following statements were kindly furnished me by thi'ee ladies
who do not wish their names to appear, and whom I will designate as
Lady B., Miss B., her daughter, and Miss D. B., her niece. The
house where the occurrences took place is situated in a London square
in which there is but little noise of any kind. There is only a gas
lamp opposite the house, and the windows are provided with blinds of
some thick stufi' material, so that it seems difficult to understand how
the figure Avas seen so clearly, unless it was to some extent self-
luminous. The percipients all appeared to have retained very clear
recollections of the circumstances testified to, and I should regard
them as what are called good witnesses in every way. I did not see
the maid-servant, as it was explained to me that it was thought
undesirable to encourage any notice of the matter being taken among
the domestics. J took down the ladies' evidence from word of mouth
as below.
Statement of Lady B.
The family had lived in the house about 25 years. Several years ago,
when sleeping in the spare room, had heard footsteps as of a person passing
the door, who tried the handle and then mounted to the floor above. The
door in question was situated just at the top of the principal staircase, which
is of stone, and, as would have been the case with any ordinary person, the
steps were inaudible till they were on the boarded floor at the top. After
trying the door, the w^ocden staircase to the next floor was heard to creak,
acconiipanied by a peculiar sound of stumbling, as though the person had
caught her foot in lier dress. At first Lady B. attributed the sounds to some
living person. She, Iiowever, mentioned them to her sister, who said she
had often heard them. Afterwards she looked out of her door wdien the
sounds were heard, but saw nothing. The maids denied having been out of
their roojiis, though questioned several times. The walking upstairs and
146 Joufnat of Society for Psjjchical Research. [Nov., 1893.
other noises were heard frequently, but sometimes with intervals of months.
No importance was attached to them till after the visual experience. This
occurred about a year and a half ago. Lady B. was sleeping in her own
room, which is next the spare room, and Miss B. was sleeping in another
bed at her side. In the middle of the night both ladies suddenly started up
wide awake without any apparent cause, and saw a figure in a white garment,
which might have been a nightdress, with dark curly hair. The room was
not quite dark, although there was no artificial light except from the gas
lamp in the square. No fear nor any physical sensation was experienced.
The figure was standing hi front of the fireplace, over which was a mirror.
The position was such as to show the face in quarter profile and to intercept
its own reflection from the mirror. It was a female figure, with hair down the
back. The face, so far as shown, was clearly visible. The two ladies both
spoke and sprang out of bed to the doors, which they found locked. On
turning round again, the figure had disappeared.
The maid-servant is said to have seen a figure in daylight in the same
position but in a black costume. She took it for a burglar.
Nothing since has been noticed except noises.
Statement of Miss B.
(3n returning home after leaving school, heard the footsteps night after
night, and they were often repeated in the same night. The door handle
would be turned and the footsteps pass upstairs. Miss B. had no fear of
ghosts whatever. Her brothers have occasionally sat up at night to watch,
but nothing occurred at those times. Only saw the apparition once, when
with Lady B., as described by her. Saw the back of the figure and its long
dark hair, but not the face. The face was, however, clearly reflected in the
mirror, and Miss B. saw it there distinctly. Like Lady B., she woke up
suddenly, without assignable cause. The room seemed lighted up.
Lady B. and Miss B. add :
The accompanying statements correctly represent the information given
bv us to Mr. Barkworth. (Signed) S. B.
. A. D. B.
Statement op Misy D. B.
When sleeping in the spare room some years ago, I heard the footsteps
on the stairs, and the door handle shaken. It was about one o'clock a.m ,
and the houseliold were all in bed. This happened twice, and I then learnt
for the first time that other people sleeping in this room had complained of
the same thing. (Signed) D. F.B.
G. 242. Collective Apparition.
From Miss M. W. Scott.
For the followinp; account we are indebted to Miss E. E. Guthrie
of 4, Bask Place, Onne-squave, London, W. It was encloeed in a
letter dated February 20th, 1893.
Miss Scott writes :
The incident I am about to relate occurred on the 7th of May, 1892,
Nov., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
between iive and six in the afternoon. Having gone for a walk, I was
returning homewards by a road in tlie vicinity of St. Boswells. The greater
portion of the way is quite level, but at one part a short incline terminates
with a sharp corner at the end. From the top of this eminence the whole
road is conspicuous, with a hedge and bank on either aide. Upon reaching
the specified point, and finding time limited, I thought I would expedite
matters by running, and had not gone many steps when I came to a sudden
halt, for just a few yards beyond I perceived a tall mar. dressed in black, and
who walked along at a moderate pace. Fancying he would think mine an
extraordinary proceeding, I finally stopped altogether to permit of his getting
on further, while at the same time watching him turn the corner and pass
on where his figure was still distinctly defined between the hedges referred
to. He was gone in a second—there being no exit anywhere—without my
having become aware of it. Greatly surprised, I then myself passed the
same corner and spot where I had seen the man vanish a few seconds before,
and here, a short space onward, I saw one of my sisters standing and looknig
about everywhere in a bewildered manner. When I came up to her I said ;
"Wherever has that man disappeared to ?
" and upon our comparing notes
together it became evident that we had both experienced a similar sensa-
tion regarding the stranger, the only difference being that I had seen
the apparition on in front, while she says he came facing her, and she, too,
had noticed he vanished almost immediately.
But here the strangest part of it all is that we found that when the man
became intidble to her, ho appeared to me between the part of the road v:here she
and I u-ere standing. I may a'so here add that at the time we saw the
apparition neither sister knew the other was so near.
Our experience then ended, until some weeks later, for though we
thought the encounter a strange one, we did not trouble much about it.
Towards the end of July, and at the same hour as before, another sister and
myself were traversing the same spot, when not far distant I observed a dark
figure approaching, and exclaimed :
" Oh, I do believe that is our man. T
won't remove my eyes from him !
" and neither we did till he seemed to
fade away towards the bank on our right. Not waiting a moment to consider,
each rushed frantically to either side of the road, but, of course, saw nothing.
We questioned some boys who were on the top of a hay-cart in the opposite
field, and to whom the expanse of road was clearly visible, but they declared
no one had passed that way. This time I again viewed the entire figure,
while my sister only saw the head and to below the shoulders. The man
was dressed entirely in black, consisting of a long coat, gaiters, and knee-
breeches, and his legs were very thin. Round his throat was a wide white
cravat, such as I have seen in old pictures. On his head was a low-crowned
hat—the fashion I am unable to describe. His face, of which I only saw the
profile, was exceedingly thin and deadly pale.
Nearly eight months have elapsed since these incidents, but the figure has
not appeared to us again, though we frequently have occasion to pass that
way, both by daylight and darkness, so in conclusion I must just relate two
experiences of others at about the same period as we had our visitations.
Two girls going from the village were attracted near the haunted walk by
14<8 JouTrad of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1803.
some wild strawberries growing on the bank. They stopped to gather them,
and while thus employed they heard a thud or thump upon the ground beside
them, but seeing no one they again continued their occupation. The sound
was relocated. Looking uj), they then saw a tall man gazing intently, and they,
being almost paralysed with fright at the awful expression of his countenance,
clutched one another convulsively and fled jDrecipitately, but after a time,
venturing to look back, they saw the figure still standing, and while they
looked lie (jrudnally faded aivay. These girls affirm that the man was dressed
exactly as I have before described, that his face was white as death, and a
white fihny sheet or vapour now enveloped his raiment.
It is [reported] that the same apparition appeared about two years ago
to some boys, and, coming up close beside them, instantly melted into space.
Also for nearly a fortnight blue lights were seen after dark near the spot
frequented by the ghost ; these were not stationary, but moved about in
varied directions. Many people followed them, but all attempts to solve
the mystery have proved fruitless. No cause can be suggested for the strange
proceedings, though legend hath it that a child was murdered close by, but
this fact is quite beyond the recollection of the oldest inhabitant of the
neighbourhood. The apparition has been visible to many, and few care to
travei'se his haunts after dark.
Miss Gruthrie, in sending us the account, enclosed a plan of the
locality (i-eproduced below), saying :
I spent a day at Lessudden last autunui, and can vouch for the truth-
fulness of the story as regards locality, for so thick is the beech hedge and so
open the fields that no man could jjonetrate the one or conceal himself in
the other.
CX
Bx
A
X
A and B. —Where apparition was sesn by the Misses Scott.
C.—Where it was seen by the children gathering wild strawberries,
D, E. —Green lane where the child is said to have been murdered.
Evidence op Miss Louisa Scott.
As my sister has written a full and accurate account of our extra-
ordinary exjjerienoe in seeing a ghost in the broad daylight of a May after-
noon, and as the road has already been described, I need only describe very
briefly the appearance and movements of the apparition as I saw him. The
date was the 7th of May, 1892, hour about a quarter before six, when, as I
was walking homewards, I saw advancing towards me at an ordiilary pace a
•E,
Nov., 1893.] Journal of Society for PsycKical Research.
tall man, dressed in black, Avliom I believed to be a clergyman. I removed
my gaze but for a second, when great was my surprise when lookmg
up again to find that he had gone from my sight. The hedge on eitlier
side of the road is very thick, with wide fields on either side, so that
the man could not possibly have sprung over it without my having seen
him. I felt extremely mystified, and stood for several minutes, looking
backwards and forwards into the fields and in all directions, when I was
much surprised by seeing my sister turn the corner of a little
incline higher up the road and commence running down it, almost
immediately coming to a sudden halt, and I saw her acting in the same
way as I had done about five minutes before. Soon she walked onwards
again, and finally turned the second sharp angle of the road and came
hurriedly towards me, looking very much excited. (I had no idea that she
was behind, nor did she know that I should be likely to be found in front of
her.) Upon coming up to me she said, "Where on earth is that man who
vras standing only about ten feet from you ?
" And here, what makes it still
more striking is that I was facing the tall spectre, yet could not see
him when my aister did. She was more fortunate than I, for she saw the
entire dress of the man, while I only noticed his long black coat, the lower
part of his body to me being invisible ; while she had the satisfaction of
seeing him entirely and also seeing him vanish, as she did not remove her
eyes, as 1 did, from the first time of seeing him. This is all I have seen of
the man, but to what I did see nothing has been added by the aid of
imagination.
(Signed) Louisa Scott.
Miss M. W. Scott adds
Lessudden House, St. Boswells, N.B.
My other sister, who was with me when we saw the apparition for the
last time, says that in the sketch I sent through Miss Guthrie it is narrated
what she saw, and therefore she thinks her statement would be scarcely
worth anything, her experience being so slight, as she only noticed the head
and shoulders of the man, while I, as before, on the other occasion, perceived
the entire dark figure.
We heard from Miss Scott a few mouths later that she had again
seen the apparition in the same place as before. She describes it as
follows
Lessudden House, St. Boswells, Roxburghshire.
June Uth, 1898.
I have again seen the ghost, and under the following circumstances.
On Sunday last, June 12th, at a few minutes before ten in the morning,
havmg occasion to pass that way, I perceived far in front a dark figure, who
at that distance was indistinguishable as to whether it were man or woman,
but believing the person to be the latter, and one I was acquainted with and
likely to meet at that hour, I determined to hurry on and overtake her. I had
not gone far, however, when I soon discovered it to be none other than the
apparition we had looked for and failed to see for so many months. I did
not then feel at all afraid, and, hoping to get a nearer inspection, boldly
followed, runnhig in close pursuit ; but here the strangest part of it all is
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1803.
that, though lie was apparently walking slowly, I never could get any closer
than within a few yards, for in but a moment he seemed to float or skim
away. Presently he suddenly came to a standstill, and I began to feel very
much afraid, and stopped also. There he was !—the tall spectre dressed
as I have described before. He turned round and gazed at me with a
vacant expression, and the same ghastly, pallid features. I can liken him to
no one I have ever seen. While I stood, he still looked intently at me for a
few seconds, then resumed his former position. Moving on a few steps he
again stood and looked back for the second tinre, finally /atW)i;//ro)f), view at
his usual spot by the hedge to the right.
There was no one else on the road but myself, and here I solemnly state
that what I have written is not at all traded upon by imagination, as I was not
thinking of the apparition at the time, he not having been seen for months
previous to this visitation. With this strange experience I now felt really
terribly frightened, so nmch so that I beat a hasty retreat homewards,
when further on I met a woman coming along who knew of the bad reputa-
tion of the road, and to her I related my adventure. She, too, was territied,
and declared she would go no further alone, so at last I agreed to accompany
her onwards to see if we could perceive anything more of the man. We, how-
ever, reached our destination in safety, witliout the ghost becoming visible.
All I can say in conclusion is that I will never voluntarily pass along the
same place alone. The girls who saw the man last summer when gathering
wild strawberries, have failed to give me their statements in writing, though
I have long waited for them. Perhaps the reason is that being so young
they may feel themselves unable to commit their experiences to paper. I
am assured, however, that the description I gave of their sensations in my
sketch to Miss Guthrie is absolutely correct in every detail.
In a letter of June 28th, 1893, to Miss Guthrie, Miss Scott adds :—
I have had a splendid inspection of his appearance this time. He wears
what is likely to Ije black silk stockings and shoe-buckles, short knee-
breeches, and long black coat. The hat I cannot describe. The man is cer-
tainly dressed as a clergyman of the last century, and we have an old picture
in the house for which he might have sat.
As to the costume in which the apparition was seen, Miss Guthrie
says :—
The dress worn, as regards the knee-breeches and silk stockings, 1 can
vouch for as having been formerly a part of clerical attire, as my aunt had
an engraving of Dr. Pankine, minister of St. David's Parish, Glasgow, m
which he wears these and, I think, buckles in his shoes. The Moderator o
the Scottish Church also wears this dress.
P. IIG Prediction of death fuimied.
The following is a case of a prediction of death, of which information
was sent to us before it was known that the death had occurred, and
which was fulfilled within a day of the time foretold
Nov., 1893.] Joiwnal of Society for Psychical Research. 151
The Rev. Aug. Glardon, M.A., writes to Professor Sidgwick :—
Tour cle-Peilz,
ScpUmher lUK 1893.
One of uiy aunts, Miss J. V., living at Vallorhe, in the Jura, and very
ill since April, predicted six weeks ago that she would leave her fnends
to morrow, Friday, 15th September. If the event confirms her prediction i
shall let you know. I only thought to-day of advising you. -Yours truly,
Aug. Glaedon.
The postmarks are-Tour-de-Peik, U/ix/93 ;
Cambridge, Sep. IG
93. Professor Sidgwick received two days later another post-card, with
postmarks-Tour-de-Peilz, 15/ix/93 ;
Cambridge, Sep. 18, 93, as
follows :
—
Tour-de-Peilz, Vaud.
Septemher lUli, 1893.
8jJ.m.
Dkar Sir,—I receive this moment, five hours after sending you my first
post-card, a letter from Yallorbe to inform me that my aunt, Miss Julie V.,
died this morning at five o'clock-" just at the end of the six weeks says my
informant. From what I had been told, I thought the " six weeks Miss
V. had spoken of were to end to-morrow. Whether I am right or wrong,
it remains a proved fact that my aunt announced the time of her death six
weeks beforehand, to a day. Aug. Glardon.
In answer to inquiries as to the cause of Miss V.'s death, Mr.
Glai'don writes :
—
Tour-de-Peilz.
September 29i/i, 1893.
Dear Sir,—In answer to your note of Saturday last, I shall state that
my aunt. Miss Julie V., was aged 78. She died of a disease of the liver on
the 14th of the present month, after an illness of five months.
Six weeks before her death she was taken from her house to the house
of her brother. It was on the 4th of August, and it was a few days after
that, being already half deUrious, she said to her brother :
" I have come to
you for six weeks.
"
During the last month of her life she was aUnost constantly halt
unconscious, and never referred to what she had said.
VN hen I went to see her, two days before her death, she did not recog-
nise me fully. It was then that her brother and sister-in-law told me that
they expected her to pass away on the loth, explaining why. In fact, she
died the day before chat. She was a woman of calm nerves and lymphatic
temperament. -Yours truly, Aug. Glar])0N,
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., i893.
CORRESPONDENCE.
EXPERIMENTS ON THE EFFICACY OP CHARMS.
Mr. Myers has received the following from a correspondent :—
The Arts CUib, Manchester.
September 2Mh, 1893.
Deak Sir, — ... I have been experimenting with something new ;
yet it is something very old. Having obtained a sufficient amount of
evidence to make me think the subject worthy of wider experiment, I
now bring it under your notice.
The uncivilised Africans, among whom I have spent many years (16),
make large use of charms, worn on the person, in cases of illness. Mission-
aries and traders are at one that they occasionally derive great benefit from
this "superstition," and, probably as the most handy explanation, account
for the efficacy by the faith the wearers place in them. For myself, I think
the efficacy of these charms, for whatever reason, is comparable with the
efficacy of allopathic drugs in the civilised world.
I was curious to know whether any evidence could be obtained pointing
to a probable cause for their eff'ect.
In order to do this, I imitated the African, but did my best to exclude
the factor of faith. I prepared a "charm," consisting of a few hieroglyphics
written on paper. This was wrapped up and sewn into a piece of tape, and
tied firmly on the bare arm of the subject of the experiment. It was to be
worn night and day for a few days, no time limit being given. I gave the
subjects to understand that I was only asking them to assist in an experi-
ment ;
that the charm was only paper with writing on it ; that they were
not to expect any improvement, but simply to tell me if such happened. If
any faith element remained, it was against my wish, and must be a quantity
resisting all methods of expulsion, even in people of education. Now for
the results in detail :
(1) Myself, age 40. I have, all my life, been subject
to some nervous trick or twitching of a muscle ; sometimes of the face, the
head, the shoulder, &c. This took the form of a peculiar snort from time to
time, and I was aware that it must be unpleasant. I therefore tried earnestly
to suppress it, but without eff'ect. I wore a charm, and it immediately
disappeared. Some few days after I found myself at it again, and found
that the charm had slipped from ivliere I could feel it to the elbow. On
replacing it the annoyance ceased. The same lapse occuired two or three
times, but I always found the charm had slipped. After a few weeks I
discontinued its use, and the bad habit has not recommenced.
Another case lately <wcurring to mjself is the following : —I have for the
last two months been very weak and ill —slight valvular affection of the
heart, on the occasion I mention accompanied by severe pain in the back
and sides. I was visiting my sister, having a rest, but did not seem to
improve. One night she tied me a charm on the left arm, and I passed a
good night. The following morning a servant said " Good morning " to me,
but made no further remark. She went into the kitchen and said to the
cook: " I can't think what has hapijened to Mr. Phillips ; he looks quite
well this morning. 1 never saw such a change in anybody I
" And I felt
Nov., 1893,] Joiivnal of Society for Fsychioal Research, 153
well, tliougli weak. I had no pain whatever, and for the first time in many
months was not conscious that I had a lieart. This freedom from pain has
remained for about three weeks, up to the present time. I am hardly ever
conscious of pain, but only of Aveakness, and I feel considerably better on
that score,
The next case is Miss G., cook at the establishment of which my
sister is matron—the "Convalescent Home," S. Age, say, 50. The
kitchen of the place is very hot—90 to 100 deg. F. every day. Miss G. is
sadly overworked, being constantly on her feet in this temperature from
8 a.m. to 8 p.m. What wonder that her health gave way and she became a
martyr to sick headache ! Scarcely ever a week passed but she had to
remain in bed some portion of or all day. I gave her a charm some 9 or
10 weeks ago, and am not aware that she has been laid up since. She has
told me, when visiting, that she has not been so, and that her headaches have
been remarkably lessened, though, as she says, nothing will set her up so
Ion" as she has to work all day hi that excessive temperature. She has
actually given notice to leave, and intended to do so for a long time past.
Next case : Mrs. M. ,
age 50, complained that on trying to open her eyes
in the ni^ht, or on awakening in the morning, she was obliged to push the
eyelids up with her fingers. She seemed to lack the power of opening them.
A charm acted "like a charm," and the annoyance ceased.
Miss B. M., age say 25, complained of chronic cold in the head, remain-
in persistently for several months. I gave her a charm, and four days
afterwards she told me the cold had quite gone. She said, half ashamed to
confess her credulity, that she really thought the charm had cured her.
L. H., 78, chronic sufferer from rheumatism. I gave him a charm, which
he, for convenience, wore loosely buttoned round his neck. No result. I
told him that he had disobeyed orders, and must wear it round his arm,
tiglithj enoiifjh to feel it.
I did not see him for some time, but he told me that, from whatever
cause, he had been very free from pain, and had discontinued the charm.
He then had a fatiguing journey in Holland, and on his return told me he
was going to look for his charm, as he had had a recurrence of the pain. A
week or so after he told me he was wearing it ; had no pain ;
nothing but
weakness from old age to trouble him.
M. H., age say 42, rheumatic ;
is reported to me to be much the same,
M. L., age say 40, troubled with chronic iits of sneezing, is reported
entirely free.
Recent case : M. D., age say 50, has chronic bronchitis and difficulty of
breathing. I gave her xiy charm to wear three days ago, and she says she
is very much better.
J. M., age say 55, has suffered for 15 years from locomotor ataxy ; has
nsupportable pains, for which reason he often drinks a pint of wdiiskey per
day, without any sign of intoxication (so he says). I gave him a charm,
which he only wore when the pains became violent—not to prevent their
attack. He says the thing is a snare and a delusion ; it has done him no
good.
P. H., acre 21 ; has four times had rheumatic fever ; heart affected ; no
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1893.
constitution. He was recovering from last attack, and I gave him a charm,
which he immediately lost. He continues to improve.
These are the details of all the experiments I have made, except one of
which I have had no report. I find some diiliculty in persuading people to
help me with my experiments. Some think them nonsensical, others
uncanny. ... R. C. Phillips,
CURING BY MENTAL SUGGESTION.
(To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir, —I venture to propose a new form of experiment, akin to that suggested
in Mr. Hudson's book on curing physical ailments by suggestion while the
patient is asleep. My plan is not quite the same as his, which consists in
using will force before going to sleep, and directing it towards the patient,
to be used during the night. I have tried this, but did not find it success-
ful, partly, probably, because one is too tired at the end of the day to have much
will force available, but also, I imagine, because the patient is then likely to
be only slightly asleep. My patient and I sleep in adjoining rooms, and on
one occasion when I did this I was awakened when going into my first sleep
by hearing her shout my name rather angrily through the wall in her sleep.
What T have found, however, followed by real amendment, was when on two
occasions I have tried the suggestion at 4 or 5 a.m., that is, after a night's
rest for myself, while the patient was still in deep sleep. The ailment for
which I tried suggestion was a long-standing attack of morbid hysterical
perverseness, caused par(:ly by physical ill-health, partly by hereditary
tendency. After the second "treatment" the perverseness passed off
entirely, the child became "herself," and the physical health having since
been re-established, I hope it may be long before I have cause to make
another experiment But as it is certainly important that other experiments
should be made, could not other people try the same thing ? Especially
with regard to the question whether suggestion takes more effect when a
patient first gees to sleep, or when he is in the deep sleep of the night or
early morning.
I have not gone into the patient's room to make the suggestion, but have
done it from my own room ; and I have used every form of suggestion which
could strengthen my own efforts. —Yours faithfully.
An Associate.
Our correspondent, who is well-known to us, in a jjrivate letter
explains further her method of treatment, and the character of the
patient referred to. She says : —
This particular child conies of a morally-twisted family, and when at all
out of health she suffers from nervous irritability, such as I am sure
Spiritualists would call obsession or possession, whichever is the recognised
word. It lasts sometimes for months together. Last year I sent her to
school, and they did not attend to her health properly, the result of whicli
was that she was sent back to me at Easter as unmanageable, and the
.symptoms lasted a month or six weeks after she returned. She is now all
Nov., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 155
right. Several times during this period 1 tried suggestion at bedtime, with
slight alleviation of the symptoms next day ;
but twice I tried a long sugges-
tion, half an hour or so, at four or five in the morning, and in both cases she
woke up a diflerent child in the morning. In the last case it was the end of
the worst time of her troubles. Since then she has only had ordinary fits of
bad temper, which pass oft' with a night's rest, and usually before. I have
had a very large number of girls under my care, and never one at all like
her. As a rule, as you say, one does not expect a fit of bad temper to last
beyond a day or two, and rarely that ; but these are quite diff'erent. It
seems to me that if hypnotic sleep and other sleep are really much the same
thing, one would naturally find a person most receptive in the deepest sleep
of the night,
CERTAIN CASES OF HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION.
{To the Editor of the .Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir, -I am at a loss to understand how in certain cases of hypnotic sug-
gestion' the hallucinatory image, when thrown upon a plain white screen of
an even surface, appears enlarged or diminished if looked at through an
opera-glass, according to which end is presented to the eye ;
precautions
being taken to prevent the 2)ercipieut knowing wlur.h end is in use. {Animal
Magnetism, Binet and F6rd, p. 229.)
How can the opera-glass afi"ect what is only in the mind of the per-
cipient •]
The theory of the Nancy school, that everything can be explained
as the result of suggestion from the hypnotiser, would not apply here, as the
subject could have no idea how the image was going to be modified, as no
hints would be given him.
Would this be a case where, to quote Mr. Myers' words, the " knowledge
[is] subliminally acquired by the subject, either by telepathic transmission
from his hypnotiser, or by the exercise of independent clairvoyant faculty " ?
—I am, yours sincerely, E. Revnolds.
October Vith, 1893.
[In an experiment such as that referred to by our corresponlent, it seems
scarcely possible to prevent the subject perceiving the eftect of the instrument
on the real objects in the field of view, and thence, by association, transferring
these effects to the hallucinatory object. Even if arrangements are made to
secure that the field of view shall be entirely occupied by the plain white
surface, there would still be marks and irregularities on that surface, however
carefully selected, the appearance of which would be affected by the lens.
Some of these marks might serve as the ''points de repere," of which MM.
Binet and Fere speak, and a hallucinatory image attached to these would
be affected as they were.
From experiments of our own we are disposed to think that the effect is
by no means invariable. We find that with some subjects and on some
occasions the hallucination is optically aftected in the same way as the per-
ception of real objects is ; while on other occasions this is not the case.—Ed.]
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, [Xov„ 189S,
COMMITTEE FOR, THE SYSTEMATIC INVESTIGATION OF
HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA.
The Council having appointed a Committee for the systematic
investigation of hypnotic phenomena, it has been decided that the
Wednesday evening meetings, open to members of the Society and
their friends, shall be discontinued after "Wednesday, November 15th.
Any members of the Society who are willing to aid the Committee,
either by bringing subjects or by systematic investigation, are invited
to send their names to the Secretary, at 19, Buckingham Street, W,C.
A SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH IN AUSTRALIA.
We have received from a correspondent a report of a meeting for
the formation of a Victorian Society for Psychical Research at
Melbourne, Australia.
The meeting was held on September 19th last, in the College of
Pharmacy, and the Chairman, Professor H. Laurie, explained in his
opening speech that it was proposed to found a society on the lines of
the one already existing in England, with similar aims and similar
methods of work. He hoped that the Society would be composed of
some members to whom the phenomena to be investigated were already
familiar, and who had arrived at definite conclusions on the subject
others who were sceptical, and others who were quite unbiassed. He
thought that they could not dispense with any one of these three
classes. The proposed constitution, which was in the main very
similar to that of our own Society, was read, with the names of the
persons who would compose the first Council, namely, Mr. J. W.
Hunt, Mr. H. M. Hunt, Dr. Jamieson, Professor Laurie, Mr. D.
McAlpine, Dr. MoUison, Mr. Oldfield, Mr. James Smith, Rev. Dr.
Strong, Dr. G. A. Syme, Dr. Webster, and Mr. A. L. Windsor. The
speakers who followed represented various points of view. Some had
had experience in investigating Spiritualistic phenomena and believed
that they could not all be explained by the ordinary laws of matter as
at present known. Others had taken no part in such inquiries, but
were convinced of the great importance and interest of the subject
while the necessity of ca.ution and of the use of strictly scientific
methods was insisted on by others. The meeting resolved unanimously
to adopt the constitution proposed, and a number of members were
enrolled.
The Victorian Society has started under favourable auspices, and
it seems that we may look forward with confidence to its doing good
work in an almost unexplored field.
No. CV.—Vol. VI. Pf,c., 1803,
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
Account of a Hypnotic Subject 1^'
A Case of Alternating Personality 162
Cases Received by the Literary Committee _
. .
163
Eecent French Experiments in Mental Suggestion, Clairvoyance, and Hypnotisation at
a Distance . ..
^'J-
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases I'l
ACCOUNT OF A HYPNOTIC SUBJECT.
Tiie account printed below refers, as will be seen, to events that
took place about thirty-live years ago, and in reading it, some allow^
ance must of course be made for the inaccuracy in detail that is
inevitable in relating from memory events so long past. Apart from
this, the witnesses had unfortunately no experience in observing and
interpreting the phenomena, and were ignorant of the precautions
which it would now be thought necessary to take in carrying out such
experiments. Thus, in the case given of hypnotisation at a distance, it
does not seem to have occurred to them to make sure that the subject
did not see the operator. Again, the degree of hypertesthesia which is
known to occur sometimes in the hypnotic condition would sufficiently
account for much that was put down to clairvoyance—when, for
instance, the subject was supposed to discover which parts of a field
had been planted, and which had not, by "seeing" the seeds in tlie
ground, whereas there must clearly have been some indications of what
part of the ground had been disturbed Nevertheless, there is strong
evidence that, while in the hypnotic condition he general faculties of
the subject were heightened in a remarkable manner, and that he then
showed some powers of thought-transference and clairvoyance. The
degree to which he carried his power of self-hypnotisation is also
interesting, as it seems to show a transition towards the state of
spontaneously alternating pe)'sonalities.
The first part of the account is a reprint of part of an article by
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec. 1893.
Mr. W, A. Cram, that appeared in the Banner of Light, August 29th,
1891. Mr. Cram writes :—
In the following account 1 shall endeavour to present to the reader a
few incidents, illustrative of a very remarkable phase of an individual life,
otherwise quite commonplace. I name them facts, because vouched for by
half a dozen or more honest, discerning men, who witnessed them at
different times. The subject of these strange phenomena, which may,
perhaps, generally be classed as "hypnotic," was a young man about twenty
years old, poor and illiterate ; as a youth, of good health, mentally dull —in
some directions bordering close upon stupidity ; he was no wise remarkable
save in that phase of his life scientifically considered " hypnotic." At first,
the condition of the subject in which these strange manifestations of occult
powers and senses appeared was induced by the word or hand movement of
a mesmeriser, or an operator ;
later, the subject himself could induce the
condition at will : in fact he at length became so susceptible, and found
such delight in this remarkable state of exalted powers and senses, that he
would remain in it for whole days. The simplest manifestations of some
occult power were certain feats of strength ; some object to be lifted would
be presented before him, requiring the force of three or four ordinary men
to raise it from the ground. The subject in his natural condition would
vainly attempt to move it, possessing less than average manly strength. The
moment he passed into the " hypnotic " condition, he would put his hands
or arms carelessly upon or about the object, lifting it apparently with
the least effort ; sometimes it seemed to follow his hand, rather than be
lifted.
In his marvellous powers of seeing, the phenomena were perhaps most
interesting. On the farm where he lived he would be assigned to the work
of dropping corn, but first so completely blindfolded that by no possibility
could he see through our ordinary vision ; thus blindfolded, he would drop
the corn into the hills with careful exactness. It was soon discovered that
he did this work better in such a state than in his natural condition of
seeing. To test his superior seeing still further, a number of hills here and
there throughout the corn-row would be dropped and carefully covered
without his knowledge—so as to appear as if not planted to all common
sight. Set to drop the corn in such a row, he never failed to see the corn
in the planted hills through an inch or two of soil covering, and so passed
them. He said he saw the corn all the same, whether uncovered or covered
with two inches of soil, and all the while perfectly blindfolded. Questioned
how he saw, he could not tell.
Again, while the subject of tliese peculiar phenomena was in one room,
some person in an adjoining, with no opening for seeing between the two
rooms, would hold up a closed book in his hand ; the subject being asked to
read on a certain page named—no one present knowing what might be
printed on that particular page—he would begin and slowly read ; on turning
to the page designated, it would be found that he had read what was there
printed—often in such experiments being also blindfolded, thus plainly
seeing through thick folds of cloth, the wa,lls dividing the rooms, the cover
and leaves of the closed book.
Dec, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 159
There were other manifestations of his superior vision similar to those
recorded by Swedenborg in his own experience. With a circle of neij^^h-
bours about him in the evening, this subject, when in his " hypnotic " state,
would be asked to look over irto a neighbouring village some three miles oft',
into a certain house, and tell what he saw. He would immediately begin and
describe objects in the room, dress and acts of the inmates—sometimes
even to very minute circumstances and details, at times laughing over
some amusing or strange thing he had discovered. It would be learned
afterward on careful inquiry that he saw and gave accurate accounts of the
room, objects, people, Arc, at the specified time.
He finally grew into the habit of self-inducing this abnormal condition
in leisure hours, and entertaining himself by looking miles away upon
people and objects all about, sometimes laughing immoderately, at other
times seemingly afraid. Questioned as to what he was laughing at or afraid
of, he would in a semi-imbecile way describe some funny or terrible thing
he saw over in a house, or mill, or wood, a mile or ten miles away.
Dr, Hodgson wrote to Mr. Cram to make further inquiries in the
case and received from him the following reply :
—
Hampton Falls, N.H., December 3rd, 1891.
The peculiar incidents presented in the Banner of Li'jU to which you
refer took place about 35 years ago. The young man, Ira Healey, the
subject, died about 10 years ago. I received the account of the facts from
my father, brother, and three or four neighbours, who agreed perfectly in
statement of the events. I stated in the paper only those facts vouched for
by some half a dozen or more. Other incidents witnessed by my father or
brother alone I did not offer in the paper. One fact I now recall may
interest you. My brother told me that one day when he was at the
mesmeriser's or operator's house—who, by the way, was a common farmer,
as much astonished as anyone at his own power over the subject, knowing
little or nothing of mesmerism—the talk turned on the question whether he,
the operator, could mesmerise Ira, the subject, at a distance of, say, half a
mile, the subject knowing nothing of the intent. " I have never tried, but
I will when there is a chance," was the response of the operator. " By the
way, Ira has gone oft' on an errand ; he'll be back soon. Let's watch, and
when he comes into the open space between the trees where we can see the
road about half a mile off, I'll try him." With a good deal of interest they
watched for the return of the subject. At length he appeared in the opening ;
immediately the operator willed him to "sleep," and to stretch his
arm straight out before him. He was seen to pause a moment, then
stretching his arm straight, walked on, so disappeared. In a few
minutes he appeared coming down the lane to the house, in a pro-
found mesmeric sleep, his arm reaching straight before him. I re-
ceived this only from my brother. The operator was a man so noted
for honesty and truthfulness that his word was counted better than
oath or bond. One evening, quite a number of neighbours were
assembled in a shoemaker's shop for country chat, Ira Healey, the
subject, sitting in one corner unnoticed, since he was counted rather
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1803.
stupid and talked little. At this time he could self-induce the
"sleep," as he often did for his own delight. All at once he burst
into a hearty laugh, as if highly amused. This startled the company ;
turning, they asked, " Well, Ira, what is up now ?
" knowing that he was
probably on one of his "sleep tramps." In his lialf-imbecile way, he
replied :
" Eben Tilton has got a new lot of pigs, and one of them hasn't got
a bit of a tail. They are all running around in his old barn." No one knew
anything of the matter. " Let's prove tliis," was the cry. Immediately two
started, walked a mile, called the man out, told him the facts, said they
wanted to look at his pigs. They went to the old barn, and found that one
of the pigs had had his tail bitten off.
The subject amused himself evenings looking about over the country
into different houses. Many times the matter was tested, till it became a
settled fact of belief among the neighbours that Ira could see anywhere
and through everything.
I was about 12 years old at the time of these incidents, and recall
very little. I remember one day meeting him wandering about in the
fields ; he had such a strange look and smile on his face he somewhat scared
me. I recall that the people said at the time he had been three or four days
in his sleep, and the operator couldn't get him out of it. He enjoyed the
state so much that he induced it more and more ;
would come in from the
field to rest a little while, would sit down and say, " Now I'll sleep half an
hour "
;
immediately dropped off into the mesmeric state, just his half an
hour, then awakened by some occult timepiece, went into the field to work.
In his sleep he would smile, talk to himself, and appeared to have entered
some new world of super-sensible things a good deal more interesting than
this common-sense one of ours.
This may not interest you much. I write it just as it comes to mind. I
have been much interested in studying these matters the last 20 years.
W. A. Cram.
F.S.—December Uh. I have just come from talking with the sister of the
operator above mentioned. She lived in the house at the time of the
mesmeric experiments. She says that the subject's eyes were always closed
when in the "sleep," and on examination the eyeballs were found turned up,
so that little or nothing but "the white" was visible. When in this state
he used to read and look at pictures a great deal, talking and sometimes
laughing immoderately—his eyes tiglitly closed, holding the book or paper
close to the upper part of his forehead.
This lady says that sometimes she would bo left alone with the subject,
her brother away. The subject would go and sit in the operator's accustomed
chair, saying, "Now, I am going to sleep ten minutes." Passing into the
state, he would at times seem to be possessed with a dozen rollicking spirits,
laughing and talking and playing pranks ; would suddenly pause, get the
Bible and read awhile in the most sanctimonious manner ;
always waking up
at the precise moment mentioned before entering the sleep, and knowing
noihinrj at all of what had passed while in his hypnotic or mesmeric
sleep. She confirms what I mentioned above—that the operator had no
power to draw him out of his self-induced states. She adds that he often
Dec, 1893.] Juitmal of Society for Psychical Research. 161
ate at the table while in his mesmeric condition, but with eyes tightly
closed, yet plainly seeing as well or better than others.
jMr. Cram wrote to Dv. Hodgson later :
—
Hampton Falls, X.H., Januo.i'ij ith, 1892.
I have to-day seen a man, Mr. Dean R. Tilton, who lived next-door
neighbour to the operator and subject. I give the following—some incidents
in his experience of the matter—as nearly as I can in his own words.
Mil. Tilton's Account.
" I went one day with the operator and subject to Exeter, to visit Com-
modore Long, who wanted to see Ira when mesmerised. Among many
things the Commodore had a big Chinese book full of pictures. It was given
to Ira. He took it in his lap, dosed, did not open it, but commenced to
look through, admire and describe the pictures. We opened the book many
times and found he had described them very accurately. The operator knew
nothing of the book. The subject was blindfold all the time with two
folded handkerchiefs, one over each eye, and a third drawn around the head
over the eyes to hold the folded ones in place.
"Mrs. Long came up to Ira, holding out her hand closed, back of hand
up. She asked Ira what was in it. He said '
watch.' It was a small gold
hunting-case one. She then asked him to tell the time through her hand.
He immediately put the side of his forehead to the back of her hand—stated
the time. No one in the room knew the time it marked. On opening the
watch it was found he had named exactly the hour and minute.
" Ira Healey had very little control over horses. One day I was out in the
field at work. Rufiis (the operator) and Ira were at work alongside. Rufus
was sowing, Ira trying to harrow ; the horse was contrary ; Rufus was near
me. We looked and saw Ira at the other end of the piece in great trouble ;
he had lost all control of the horse. Rufus immediately made two or three
'passes' toward Ira, who was not looking toward us. At once Ira
straightened up as with the power of half a dozen horse trainers, subdued
and drove the horse till the piece was finished, as if the horse had at once
turned into the most docile old nag. In riding the horse to cultivate,
sometimes the horse would get ugly and wouldn't mind Ira. rearing and
treading on the cornhills. Rufus would then make a '
pass ' of the hand
towards Ira, who was sitting on the horse, back to him ;
immediately he
took the horse into the most complete subjection.
" One day I was at work with Rufus and Ira. We were shovelling manure,
RuEus wanted to send the cart and oxen up to the house, but Ira couldn't
manage the oxen. I suggested mesmerise him. Ira heard me, and wouldn't
be. I quietly turned and took the shovel Rufus had been using, then turning
to Ira, said, 'You have my shovel,' passing to him Rufus' [shovel]. No
S0(mer had Ira taken the shovel in hand that Rufus had been using than he
passed into the 'sleep.' I handed him the 'ox goad,' and he started off
happy as a king, his eyes tightly closed, set the cart in place, managing the
steers as if the most skilled man in the world. In his natural state he could
not do it, yet his eyes were tightly shut always when mesmerised.
" One time I was at work with them. Rufus said, '
Come, Ira, you plant
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1893.
cam ;
you can do it easier and better mesmerised.' So he mesmerised liini.
I said, '
Let us blindfold him this time.' We blindfolded him with three
pocket-handkerchiefs. He started off to get corn from a bag at the end of
the field, went straight to the bag, took the corn out carefully, and began to
drop into the hill. Pretty soon he came to us, and said, 'The boy is
dropping bad '
—a boy had been dropping some time un the piece—' he puts
in whole handfuls.' We followed him to the boy's row, he pointed to a
place, we saw nothing ; he dug down a little way and showed whole handfuls
covered u]). The boy had been given a stint to plant so much. Called to
account, the boy confessed he had put in whole handfuls sometimes and
covered it up, so as to get through his stint sooner.
" Planting his own row, Ira had glanced into the boy's row, next to him,
and seen the covered-up corn."
1 have given you just these little added facts from Mr. Tilton's experience.
Mr. Tilton is about sixty-five years old now, and totally blind, or I would
have asked him to have given the facts in his own handwriting. He sub-
scribes his name to this, and my account in the Banner of Light, as being
true. My brother died eight years ago. Miss Mary A. Sanborn and Mr.
Dean R. Tilton are the only direct witnesses I can find now.
W. A. Cram.
Mr. Tilton signs the following statement :
Hampton Falls, N.H., Jawfcmj Uh, 1892.
The account of certain so-called mesmeric phenomena, witnessed through
the subject, Ira Healey, presented in the Banner of Light of August 29th,
1891, is, according to my memory as a witness, a simple statement of facts.
I have also told Mr. Cram certain facts not mentioned in said account, which
he proposes to present to you, which I will vouch for.
Miss Sanborn, the sister of the operator, writes :
Hampton Falls, N.H., January Uh, 1892.
The account which Mr. W. A. Cram gives in the Banner of Light of
August 29th, 1891, of certain remarkable phenomena, called at the time
" mesmeric," manifest in the subject, Mr. Ira Healey, of Hampton Falls,
N.H., as I remember to have witnessed, are essentially true.
(Signed) Mary A. Sanborn.
A CASE OF ALTERNATING PERSONALITY.
This case was reported by Prof. E. E. Slosson, of Wyoming
University, Laramie, Wyoming, to Prof. W. James. As is usual
in such cases, there seems to have been an alternation of memory
concurrently with the changes of character in the two states. The
account was written in January, 1893, by Prof. Slosson's mother.
C. F. H. was the illegitiuiate son of a yoUng man of good family and an
Irish servant-girl. During the period covered by the recollection of the
informant (1847 to 1860) he was subject to marked changes of character,
accompanied with partial loss of meilldry. In his normal state (primaiy
personality) he was conscientious, sober, industrious, and sedate ;
a man of
Dec, 1893.] Jom'nat of Society for Psychical Research. 16B
good sense, bub not brilliant ; a prominent menibei- of the church, leader in
the choir, and fond of reading. In his periods of secondary personality,
which occurred at intervals of a few months and lasted a week or more, he
was witty, sharp, and unscrupulous ; was fond of going to dances and of sing-
ing low songs, and would not go to church ; sometimes he would sit silent
and moody, or cry because he was poor. In this secondary state he was very
avaricious, and had a great desire for speculation. He was impatient, and
would become sullen or angry if crossed in any way. In this secondary state,
too, he was a very close observer and a malicious critic ;
quick to repeat any
bit of scandal. In each state he only remembered what had happened in
the same state ; and on the change of personality he would not know in
what work he had been engaged, or of the money he had earned since he
had been in the other state. On one occasion, 1847, when he was twenty years
old, he was given a five-dollar bill to stop his crying, while in his second
condition. A few days later he resumed his primaiy personality, and knew
nothing of it. The bill was searched for by all, but could not be found.
Months afterwards he awoke in his secondary personality, and when asked
about the bill went at once to a hole in a rag bag in a cellar and took it out.
During his second condition he had a hallucination that his nose was
crooked, and would try to twist it back with his hand. His " spells," as
they were called, were attributed by the local doctors to the formation of an
abscess in his head. The secondary states increased gradually in length, and
at the; same time the distinction between states became less marked. He
married and had several children, some of whom are not of sound mind. He
is atill living.
The above is the substance of my recollection. —A. L. Slosson.
[In a letter dated May 18th, 1893, Prof. E. E. Slosson writes :—
J
" I have only one additional item in the case of C. H. That he
was cutting grass when he had one of his '
spells,' and after a day's
mowing awoke, '
himself,' the next morning. They tried to find the scythe
to begin work with, but could not do so, and it remained lost until late in
the fall, when another '
spell ' came on, and he started for the meadow and
took his scythe from a tree where he had hung it, but came back surprised
to find that the ground was frozen and no grass there.
"E. E. Slosson."
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 961. Ae P" Impression.
The following account was obtained by Mr. A. T. Fryer from
Ar-chdeacon Bruce.
It is an interesting feature in the incident that an idea suggested
by an external object—^an object unconnected with anything of in-
terest eithei' to agent or percipient—seems to have acted as a kind of
mental point de repere, about which the impression crystallised itself,
tihd without which it might perhaps have remained latent.
164 Journal of Society for Psi/chical Research. [Dec, 1893.
St. Woolos' Vicarage, Newport, Monmouthshire.
Juhjiith, 1892.
On April 19th, Easter Tuesday, I went to Ebbw Vale to preach at the
opening of a new iron chui'ch in Beaufort parisli.
I had arranged that Mrs. Bruce and my daughter should drive in the
afternoon
The morning service and public luncheon over, I walked up to the
Vicarage at Ebbw Vale to call on the Vicar. As I went there I heard the
bell of the new church at Beaufort ringing for afternoon service at 3. It had
stopped some little time before I reached the Vicarage (of Ebbw Vale). The
Vicar was out, and it struck me that I might get back to the Beaufort new
church in time to hear some of the sermon before my train left (at 4.35).
On my way back through Ebbiv Vale, and not far from the bottom of the
hill on which the Ebbw Vale Vicarage is placed, I saw over a provision shop
one of those huge, staring Bovril advertisements—the familiar large ox-head.
I had seen fifty of them before, but something fascinated me in connection
with this particular one. I turned to it, and was moved to address it in
these, my ipsissima verba :
" You ugly brute, don't stare at me like that:
has some accident happened to the wife?" Just the faintest tinge of
uneasiness passed through me as I spoke, but it vanished at once. This
must have been as nearly as possible 3.20. I reached home at 6 to find the
vet. in my stable-yard tending my poor horse, and Mrs. Bruce and my
daughter in a condition of collapse in the house. The accident had happened
—so Mrs. Bruce thinks—precisely at 3.30, but she is not confident of the
moment. My own times I can fix; precisely.
I had no reason to fear any accident, as my coachman had driven them
with the same horse frequently, and save a little freshness at starting, the
horse was always quiet on the road, even to sluggishness. A most unusual
occurrence set it off. A telegraph operator, at the top of a telegraph post,
hauled up a long flashing coil of wire under the horse's nose. Any horse in
the world, except the Troy horse, would have bolted under the circum-
stances.
My wife's estimate of the precise time can only be taken as approximate.
She saw the time when she got home, and took that as her zero, but the
confusion and excitement of the walk home from the scene of the accident
leaves room for doubt as to her power of settling the time accurately. The
accident hajipened about 2j miles from home, and she was home by 4.10;
but she was some time on the ground waiting until the horse was dis-
engaged, &c.
W. CONYBBAHE BrUCE.
Archdeacon Bruce adds later : —
May 20th, 1893.
I think I stated the fact that the impression of danger to Mrs. Bruce was
only momentary—it passed at once—and it was only when I heard of the
accident that I recalled the impression. I did not therefore go home expect-
ing to find that anything had happened. W. Conybeahe Bbl*cb.
Mrs. Bruce writes :
The first thought that flashed across me as thd accident happened waS)
Dec, 181)3.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research- 165
" What will W. say r' My ruling idea then Avas to get home before my
husband, so as to save him alarm.
Mr. Fryer ascertained independently from the Vicar of Ebbw Vale
that the date of Archdeacon Bruce's visit to him was April 19th, 1892.
L. 962. A" P" Apparition.
For the following account we are indebted to Lady Lyttelton, to
whom the percipient, Mr. L. S. M. Munro, first related it verbally.
Novemher 29th, 1891.
It was on a Sunday in July or August last. I was seated in my rooms in
Liverpool, which look out on a public thoroughfare, writing at a table which
stands some six or eight feet from one of the windo.ws. I was engaged
writing on a subject in which I was much interested. I was alone. I had
come to a standstill in my writing, and searching for a continuation of
thoughts, I believe my mind was for the moment a comparative blank.
Instinctively I turned my head towards the window, and I saw looking in
upon me through one of the panes the face of a young girl friend of mine,
vivid and clear as if in life. She is, I think, about 10 or 11 years of age, and
the daughter of an acquaintance residing some 20 or 25 miles from my
residence, whom I have visited several times. The little girl and I became great
friends during my visits. I had not, however, thought of her or any of her
connections for weeks, probably for months, and certainly there was nothing
further from my thoughts when I saw the vision than her or anything con-
nected with her. The apparition aroused my mental activity, when it
immediately disappeared. The incident, however, made such an impression
on my mind that I at once took out my watch, noted the time— 5.25—and
without any hesitation wrote to the little girl telling her of her mysterious
visit to me. By return of post came a letter from her and also one from her
mother, stating that just about that time they had been having a conversa-
tion about me, which was also unusual.
I was then in my usual health, which is robust, and, except as before
stated, in my normal mental condition. I have never had a similar experience.
The facts were as stated, but I have no reason to adduce for the myster^
ious occurrence. L. S. M. Muis'RO.
We asked Mr. Munro whether the letters referred to had been pre-
served, and also whether the window was in such a position that a real
person might have been looking into it, and he replied
19, Princes-avenue, Liver^oool, May 25th, 1892.
I have searched all my papers, but regret to find that the letters which I
received at the time from the little girl and her mother must have been
destroyed, and I did not keep a copy of the letter which at the moment of
the occurrence I wrote to my little friend.
Since the event took place my friends have gone to reside in Edinburgh,
and I should not care to reopen the question with them in writing, as the
mother, who is somewhat nervous and perhaps superstitious, was (as I •
learned from mutual friends aftetwards) much distressed and agitated when
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1893.
she heard of the jipparitioii, regarding it as an evil omen. But if I should
have an opportunity of verbally inquiring if they have preserved my letter,
I may communicate with you again.
The room in which I was sitting at the time is on the ground Hoor, but
the idea that I could have confused the figure with a real child outside the
window is altogether precluded, as the window is situated in an enclosed
space ;
and, moreover, I immediately went and satisfied myself that there
was no real person there. L. S. M. Munro.
The next two cases are instances of veridical impressions occurring
during severe illness, when it is conceivable that the abnormal con-
dition of the percipients had some effect in heightening the percipient
faculty.
G. 24.3. Apparition.
This case was sent by Mrs. C. Baker, having been obtained by her
from her husband's niece, Miss Robinson, who writes :
24, Trent-road, Brixton Hill, S.W., October 20th, 1893.
In December, 1880, I was twelve years old, and I was lying very
dangerously ill with typhoid fever. The pain in my head was terrible, like
an iron weight breaking my skull in ; but that was nothing to the mental
pain I was enduring, for my aunt I loved so much was ill. I knew she was
suffering great agony, and that there was little hope that anything could be
done to relieve her.
This aunt was the best friend we children ever had; the brightest,
strongest, most active woman I ever saw. She was ill. This is what haunted
me day and night ; this is what caused me misery such as I have never known
before or since, such as I trust I may never know in the same degree again.
During my long, feverish niglits I used to count how many hours before
eight o'clock would come, for then the post came, and I might hear news. I
do not know how long this went on, it might be days or weeks ;
but one
evening I suppose T had been asleep, for when I woke up I found the
hospital nurse and my mother had left the room. But I was not alone, for
on the chair next my bed sat my father, who had been dead eight years. I
was not at all surprised, I was comforted by his presence. It did not enter
my mind to think he was dead or to speculate ; for he was there,' that was
enough for me. He said :
" Do not trouble mother by always asking how
Aunt Mary is, for they have covered her with violets, so she has no more
pain." As the other people came in (I don't know who they were) my
father glided to the foot of my bed and went away, I do not know where or
how. I do not know if 1 had been in the dark, but there was a blue light
round my father, but not on his face. I don't know what hie body looked
like, I never thought about it. He was my own dear father. I was quite
content, and never doubted but that it was all right.
My trouble left me. I told my mother that I was not going to worry
about Aunt Mary, for papa had come and told me she was iiuite well, fot
they had covered her with violets. No one during the rest of my illness
spoke of my aunt, and I never thought of her. Some weeks after I was well
Dku, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
again, I was staying in the country with a kind aunt who had helped to
nurse me. Un Sunday evening this aunt gently told nie Aunt Mary had
died the day before Christmas. My pain was long past ; it was no shock to
me. That, then, was what father meant ; I had not thought of it till then.
Afterwards they told me, when my aunt was dead, loving hands laid violets
upon her. Violets were used upon her cothu. Violets are now growing upon
her grave. Louise M. Robinson.
Mrs. Robinson writes :
—
24, Trent-road, Brixton Hill, October Idth, 1893.
Dear Mrs. Bakeii,—I enclose Louise's account of her strange experience
in her illness. One—if not the greatest—trouble that I had was her continual
anxiety and questions about her aunt ; and what was so wonderful was that,
from the time she told me what she believed that her father had told her, she
never mentioned her aunt's name or made any inquiry about her. I cannot
remember the time, I am sorry to say. I cannot tell if it was the day before
or the day after her aunt s death that the circumstance occurred. I only
know that it was hefui-e I heard of my sider-m-lcvw's death. I only know the
immense relief it was to me that she ceased to trouble, as the doctors had
said, if I told her in her state, the shock would kill her. Another strange
thing was that on inquiry I found the coflin was covered with flowers—
a
most surprising thing, as the family were extremely " Low Church," and
objected to everything of the kind ; but her husband, knowing her love of
flowers, carried out his own feeling in the matter.
L. 963. Impression.
The second case comes to us through the American Branch of the
Society. A paragraph describing it appeared in the Religio-Phito-
sophical Journal of July 26th, 1890, as follows :
—
A despatch, dated .July 5th, to the St. Louis Globe-Democrat: Particu-
lars as to the death by lightning of John King, a farmer near Warren-
town, Ala., have been received. While ploughing in a held a storm came
up, and he hitched his team and took refuge under a tree. A flash of
lightning killed the animals and their master, Mr. King's left side being
badly burned and left eye driven from the socket. His little girl, sick unto
death, was lying in a comatose condition at home. As the flash lighted up
the room, she sprang up in bed and exclaimed, " Oh, my papa is killed."
Dr. Hodgson obtained, some time later, corroboration of the case
through the following letters from a gentleman living at "Warrentown :
—
Warrenton, Ala., May 26th, 1893.
My Deau Sir, —I am in receipt of your communication of the 19th inst.,
asking particulars of a casualty that occurred in this immediate vicinity
several years ago—the killing of John King by lightning. I have had an
interview with his brother-in-law, who was near when the fatality occurred,
and who gives the following particulars in regard to the matter.
*********
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec ,
1893.
He says that Mr. King had been ploughing about half a mile from his
dwelling when the storm came up, and out of sight of his home, and as no
one witnessed it, the presumption is that he sought shelter under a few
planks that he had placed agahist a pine tree, and where his body was found.
He further states that his little daughter, who was sick in bed at the time,
exclaimed excitedly that the lightning had killed her papa. He says every-
thing is true as stated in the clipping, except the animals lieing killed. I
learn that King had a dog that followed him constantly. The dog returned
to the family very soon after his master was killed, and l)y his actions and
strange nianner attracted the attention of Mrs. King, which together with
the exclamation of the child that its father had been killed, caused her to go
at once in pursuit of her husband, whom she found dead and marked by
liglitning as previously stated. It is clear that the little daughter had some
premonition of the event before any report could have reached any member
of the family confirming it.
(Signed) H. W. Hall.
Mr. Hall writes later : —
Warrenton, Ala., Juhj ith, 1893.
Dear Sir,—In compliance with your request of the 24th ult., after some
delay, have obtained the signatures of Mrs. King and brother, G. W. King,
and also tlieir rejilies to questions propounded, which are given in their
own language and own handwriting. Trusting this may prove satisfactory, I
remain, yours truly, H. W. Hall.
[The following are the questions and answers referred to above :—
Has the little girl ever had any other experiences of a like nature ?—No.
How old was she at the time of the occurrence Six years old.
Was her mother present at the time her little girl gave expression to the
words, " My papa is killed " '.—I (Mrs. M. J, King) had hold of her.
(Signed) Mrs. M. J. King.
G. W. King.
L. 964. Ae Ps Dream.
Through the American Branch of the Society, from Mr. T. F.
McCuUoch.
Mr. McCulloch wrote the following letter to a friend of his, through
whom Dr. Hodgson received the account :—
Liberty, N.C., Jannarn 19i/(, 1892.
Dear Cox,-—At your re(iuest I write a dream which I had in the fall of
1889. I was on Ash'boro Circuit, at the house of J. M. Allen, about thirty
miles from my home. In my dream I thought my wife was in bed by my
side. I heard her say, " I am so sick." I woke up immediately ;
it seemed
so real, the tone of voice so natural, that I could not sleep for some time for
thinking about it. The next morning I related the dream to Alvis Bean, a
neighbo°ur of Mr. Allen. I went home soon, and found that my wife had
been very sick that night, and had sent for a physician in the night.
T. F. McCulloch.
At Dr. Hodgson's request Mr. McCulloch obtained the following
Dec, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 1G9
corroborative letters from Mr. J. M. Allen, Mrs. MeCuUoch, and
Mrs. Allen: —
1. From Mr. Allen to Mu. MfCt^LLocH.
Dpcnnher IWi, 1892.
Your letter to hunJ, ;ind contents noted. Would say that you .stayed all
night with me about two years ago, and on the next morn you told us tli.at
y(nx had dreamt on the night previous th;it you felt Mrs. McCullocli touch
your arm and .say that she was sick.
Mr. A. L. Bean came to my house on the same morn, and you related the
same to him. Mrs. Allen and Clark, jun., remember the same.
I saw you a few weeks later, and you told me that on the night that you
stayed with me Mrs. McCulloch was taken ill, and I remember that I said
that I did not believe in dreams, but it looked like there was something
in that one. James M. Allcn.
2. From Mrs. McCulloch.
Liberty, N.C., December 29th, 1892.
Mr. Richard Hodgson,
Dear Sir, —On the night of November 18th or 19th, 1890, I was taken
sick. Dr. Wesley Coble, Pleasant Garden, N.C., was sent for. My husband
w^as away from home, and had been gone about a week. He returned three
or four days after, but had not heard of my sickness till he came home.
My recollection is that he asked when I was taken sick, and then related
that he dreamed the same night that I touched him on the arm and said, " I
am so sick—so sick." He thought he was at home, and that I was in bed
with him. He said it made such an impression on his mind he could not go
to sleep for some time. Ellen McCulloch,
3, From Mrs. Allen.
Ralph, N.C.
[Received Jamianj Uli, 1893.]
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Sir, —Your letter of inquiry to hand. Would say that Mr. T. F.
McCulloch stayed all night with us, and when he awoke in the morn he said
he had dreamt a dream which gave him great uneasiness. He said tliat he
dreamt that Mrs. McCulloch was sick, that she called liim, and he felt her
touch his arm. When he awoke, it gave him so much uneasiness that he
could not sleep.
At a meeting two or three months later, lie came to me and said that on
the night that he stayed with us Mrs. McCulloch was taken ill. This is all I
can tell of the dream. Mrs. Chas. A. Allen.
L. 965. Simultaneous Dreams.
Obtained through the American Branch of the Society, from Mr.
H. Armstrong.
Though, as regards their main subject, the dreams were likely ones
to occur to both the persons concerned, the introduction into both of
them of the improbable detail of Mr. Armstrong's appearance at the
marriage in his shirt-sleeves seems an indication of telepathy between
the sleepers.
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. LDeq.. isoa.
Mr. Armstrong writes to Dr. Hodgson :
Lehmann's, La., March 20th, 1893,
I will relate a dream that I had about two years ago, that in my opinion
was remarkable, although such dreams may be more common than we think,
if they would always come to light. I was staying at the house of a young-
friend of mine, who at the time was infatuated with a young lady in the
neighbourhood. His parents, as well as myself, were opposed to the
alliance, and our conversation would often centre on the subject. One night
I dreamed that he was determined to marry the girl. Everything was pre-
pared, and I remember hurrying off to the place where the ceremony was to
take place. I even forgot to put on my coat. I found him in a back room
of the house, where I also saw his father, vainly trying to change his mind.
I called my young friend to the side, and talked to him like a Dutch uncle,
trying to persuad"e him out of the notion. Then I left the scene, and went
home^'in disgust. Now, we were sleeping in the same room and in the same
bed, and after awaking in the morning, and before telling him of my
dream, I asked what he had been dreaming about. He, half smilingly,
answered, "Why, I dreamt that I was about to get married, when you came
rushing in the house, in shirt -sleeves, and insisted that the ceremony must
not go°on." In fact, he related the experience just as I had seen it, coin-
ciding to a syllable with my dream. H. Aemstrong.
Mr. Armstrong also stated that he and his friend had told the
dream to the latter's father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. Barker, the
next morning, and Dr. Hodgson received later the following
accounts from Mrs. Barker and her son.
Lehmann's, La., May 3rd, 1893.
Dear Sir,—I have been intending to write you a statement of Mr. Ann-
strong's dream, as I remember it. The family had all assembled in the
dining room for breakfast. My son George said :
" A strange thing has
occurred. Mr. Armstrong and I have had a dream exactly alike in every
respect. I dreamed I was about to marry a certain young lady (Miss ),
and Mr. Armstrong was doing his best to keep me from it." Mr. Armstrong
said :
" I dreamed exactly the same thing that George has just told." I do
not remember exactly when it was, but I think it was in the spring of 1891.
Mrs. Tom D. Barker.
Lehmann's P.O., La., June 8th, 1893.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your favour of recent date, requesting me to
write you a statement of a dream which Mr. Armstrong and myself had the
same night, I will say the dream is as follows :—
I thout^ht I was in love with a young lady in our neighbourhood (I was)
and we were about to be married ; in fact, the ceremony was being per-
formed, when Mr. Armstrong rushed in and forbade the minister proceed-
in*^. He was so urgent that the ceremony was postponed. I noticed very
distinctly that he was in his shirt-sleeves.
The scene of my dream was the dining-room of our residence in Natchez,
about sixteen miles from where we were sleeping (we slept together) the
ni^ht of the dream. I have never had any other experiences.
Georoe G. Barker.
Dec, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 171
RECENT FRENCH EXPERIMENTS IN MENTAL SUGGES-
TION, CLAIRVOYANCE, AND HYPNOTISATION AT A
DISTANCE.
Some interesting accounts of expei'imental psychical work have been
given recently in the Annales des Scifnces Psychiques.
In the number for July-August. 1893, M. J. Ch. Ptoux describes
successful experiments of his own, some in clairvoyance and some in
thought-transference, and other ingeniously devised experiments, in
which it appeared that clairvoyance and thought-transference were
acting simultaneously.
The current number (September-October, 1893) contains some
striking cases of hypnotisation at a distance.
An article by the Editor, Dr. Dariex, describes a series of experi-
ments on this point, made by him in December, 1890, and January,
1891, under very careful conditions, with a patient of his own, whom
he had previously hypnotised four times in the ordinary manner. He
was at the time of the experiments in his own house, about 800 metres
from that of the patient. His first three attempts were completely
successful, the time of his elforts corresponding within a few minutes
to the time when the patient became hypnotised. On the fourth occa-
sion she felt a strong inclination to sleep, but succeeded by an effort of
will in resisting it. The fifth and last experiment failed.
In the other case described, the distance between the operator and
subject was very much greater. The account was sent to Professor
Richet by Dr. Tolosa-Latour It relates to a hysterical patient of his
in Madrid, in whose case he had previously used hypnotic treatment
with success. Dr. Tolosa-Latour was travelling from Paris on
October 26th, 1890, and, while in the train between Poitiers and
Mignie, made an attempt to produce in his patient at Madrid—first the
hypnotic .sleep, and after it
—
^'povr fixer Men Ja suggestion'''—
a
hysterical attack, which she had not had for a long time. Both effects
were produced as he intended.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Continued from the October Jourxal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any oj these cases
tvill be gratefully received.
B G 103. Received through the American Branch. —MissM. E. Williams,
staying at Schloss Weierburg, in the Tyrol, sees a woman in a dark dress
with a lamp in her hand, kneeling before the altar in the chapel, who goes
away up some steps into the Castle. She finds that no one has been there,
and hears later that an artist staying there had seen in the same place a
similar figure, which went away up the steps. Undated. Recorded in 1888.
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, isos.
B G 104. Haunted House. Through the American Branch.—From Mr. P.
In a house in Long Island in which he lived in 1864, mysterious noises
were constantly heard by various members of household, one of whom saw
several times figure of old woman with cane in hand moving about horroom
at night. Mr."P. left house on account of disturbances, which also drove
away" two succeeding sets of tenants. House supposed to be haunted by
former owner, whose will had not lieen found. Recorded in 1890.
B (i 10.5. Apparition. Througli Mr. W. A. Walker.—Miss C. L.
Greaves, staying at West Leake Rectory, Loughborougli, heard rustling m
her room at night and saw apparition of girl walking up and down ;
at same
time felt a chill, which left her as the apparition vanished. She saw it three
times afterwards, under the same circumstances. Once a dog was present
which showed signs of terror. She heard afterwards that the governess had
seen it since in the same room. Undated. Recorded in 1892.
B G 106. From Miss E. D. through Miss M. Benson.—In the autumn of
1887 Miss D. saw in the afternoon an apparition of an old lady in Quaker dress
(face not seen) in house in Ireland. Afterwards heard that such an old lady
was supposed to appear when anything of importance was about to happen
in the family, but that she had not been seen by anyone living. Soon after-
wards Miss D. heard of the engagement of the son of the house to be
married. There was a picture of the old lady in the house, which Miss D.
must have seen. Recorded August, 1890.
B G 107. Haunted house at Ramsgate.—Figure seen by Sister Maria
(the matron) and several servants, generally in a dark {>) passage ;
once by
three servants together-one having brought the others to look. Probably
all knew of the haunt. Date, 1890. Recorded 1892.
B L 166 2nd hand. From Mrs. Conrad Hall, of Winchcombe.—
Dauo-hter in Essex at the time of her father's death heard terrible shaking
of window, as if a strong person shook it with all his might ;
and next morn-
ing heard her name called distinctly. A few minutes later she received
tefegram of her father's death. Date, October, 1868 ;
recorded December,
1889.
B L 167 Auditory. — Mrs. N. heard the voice of a deceased friend say,
"He's coming soon." Friend's husband died in Jamaica at the time the
voice was heard.
BL168 A'lP" Collective apparition.— Miss M. E. Godwin, when a
child, was walking out with a friend when both of them saw a gentleman
whom she knew well ;
she spoke to him, and he answered Next day they
heard that he had died from the effects of an accident exactly at the time she
had seen him. Date, over 20 years ago. Recorded m 1891. lurtherm^
quiries unanswered.
B L 169. Through Maria, Lady Vincent.—Experiences of Lady—.
(1) Borderland A^^ Re She hears her name called twice, and ^
knocks at the door. At the same time a friend about whom she was anxious
dies suddenly. Undated. (2) Ae P" Impulse. On a snowy afternoon
she has impression that an old woman liviug 3 miles ofi is wanting her,
aoes to see, and finds that woman had fallen and been jammed in her stair-
case for 8 hours. Undated. Both recorded 1890.
B L 170 Visual and auditory. A^ P" —From Atomic Consciousness, by
James Bathurst, published in 1892. Mr. and Mrs. Cleverley hear footsteps,
and Mrs. C, going out to investigate, sees apparition of her son m anot ler
room. He was drowned at the same time by the sinking of the ship
Eurydice, Confirmed by Mr. C. Undated.
No. CVI.—Vol. VI. Jan., 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates . . 173
Meeting of tlie Couneil . . 171
.. 175
.. 176
Tlie Character of Jlr. D. D. Heme
Cases Received by the Literary Committee . . 170
Tire Committee for the Systematic Investigation of Hypnotic Plienoniena .. . . 187
.. 18S
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Memlers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are 'printed in Small Capitals.
Blackwood, Mrs., Norton Court. Sittingbourne, Kent.
Brooke, Rev. Stopford A,, M.A., 1, Manchester-square, London, W.
Carey, Arthur, B.Sc, Browsich, Gateacre, near Liverpool.
Clark, Miss, Suiiield Park, Cromer.
Clarke, John Henry, M.D., 30, Clarges-street, London, W.
CooiiiLL, Coloxel Kendal, C.B., Coslieen, Castle Townsliend, Co. Cork.
Davison, Miss Annie, 1, Stanford-road, Kensington, W.
Eves, Mrs. Charles T., Brook's Lodge, The Park, Cheltenham.
Glardon, Rev. Auguste, Tour de Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland.
Grogan, Miss, LS, Ridgmount-gardens, London, YV.C.
Haggard, John G-, H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Low, Lady, 23, De Yere-gardeiis, Kensington, AV.
Martineau, Alfred Edavard, Assist. Commissioner (Indian Civil
Service), Sialkot, Punjab, India.
Masterman, Miss Louisa, Cawood Lodge, Haskmere.
Phillips, Rev. J. T., 147, Beaufort-hill, Beaufort, Mon-
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5, Campden Hill-square, London,
Somerset, H. Somers, The Priory, Reigate.
174 Juarnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1894.
THE AMERICAN BRxiNCH.
Barnes, W. A., New Madrid, Mo., U.S.A.
Hunt, Chas. R., M.D., 262, ITnioii-street, Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
^
Lamont, Robert, 182, Willoughby-ave., Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
LiPPiTT, General Francis J., 9, Blake-row, U.S. Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Indiana, U.S.A.
Lyman, Joseph B., University-buildings, Washington-square, E., New
York City, U.S.A.
Mather,Enoch,M.D.,PH.D.,LL.D.,124, Hamilton Ave., Peterson,N.J.
Perry, John G., M.D., 48, East 31th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
SiNTENis, E. H., P. O. Box 115, Abilene, Texas, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Society's Rooms, 19,
Buckingham-street, W.C., on December 1st, Professor W. F. Barrett in
the chair. There were also present Professor H, Sidgwick, Colonel
J. Hartley, and Messrs. W. Crookes, W. Leaf, F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Five new Members and twelve new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of one new
Member and seven new Associates of the American Branch, whose
names also appear above, was recorded.
It was agreed that, at her request, the name of Mrs. Oscar Wilde
should be transferred at the end of the year from the List of Associates
to that of Members ; and also that Mr. Edmund Selous's name should
be transferred from the List of Members to that of Associates.
The resignation of three Members and fourteen Associates, who
from various causes desired to terminate their connection with the
Society at the close of the year, was accepted.
The names of two Associates who had virtually ceased to be
Members of the Society were directed to be crossed off the List.
A vote of thanks was accorded to Mr. F. W. H. Myers for a copy
of " Science and a Future Life ; with Other Essays," presented to the
Library.
The names of those Members or Council who retire in rotation at
the end of the year were read over. The Assistant-Secretary was
desired to ascertain whether they would offer themselves for re-election ;
and also to send out notices in accordance with the Rules, for the
Annual Business Meeting of Members, to be held as already arranged^
Jan., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psyddcal JResearch. 175
at the Westminster Town Hall, on Friday, the 2Gth of January, 1894,
at 3 p.m.
It was agreed that General Meetings of the Society be lield on the
following dates, subsequent to that already fixed for January 26th,
1894, at 4 p m. :—Friday, March 9th, 8.30 p.m. ;
Friday, April 27th,
4 p.m. ;
Friday, June 8th, 8.30 p.m.
A discussion took place as to the most convenient arrangement of
the printed List of Members of the Society. It was decided that in
future the names of Members, Honorary Associates, and Associates be
printed in one consecutive list ; the names of Members being dis-
tinguished by special type, and those of Honorary Associates by the
prefix of an asterisk.
Other matters of business having been attended to, the Council
agreed to meet at the close of the Annual Business Meeting of
Members, to be held at 3 p.m. on January 26th, 1894, at the West-
minster Town Hall.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 62nd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall, on Friday, December 1st, 1893, at 8.30 p.m.,
Professor Barrett in the chair. The attendance was unusually large.
Professor Lodge read a paper on "The Difficulty of making crucial
Experiments as to the source of the extra or unusual Intelligence
manifested in Trance-speech, Automatic writing, and other states of
apparent mental inactivity," which it is hoped will be published in a
future number of the Proceedings.
De. Burton gave a brief account of some experiments in thought-
transference, —of numbers,—Avhich had succeeded when agent and
percipient were placed back to back, but had failed when they were
at some distance apart. He agreed with Professor Lodge as to the
desirability of pressing experiments on the influence of distance on
telepathic phenomena.
A paper by Me. Chaelton T. Speee, on his reminiscences of
Mr. Stainton Moses, was then read by Mr. Myers. The paper, which
is to appear in the forthcoming Part XXV. of Proceedings, described
the various phenomena which Mr. Speer had witnessed during the later
years of Mr. Moses' experiences. One incident which was mentioned
elicited several questions. Mr. Speer stated that Mr. Moses bad, at a
dark seance, clairvoyantly seen a face, and that at the same seance a
name was written " directly "—apart from Mr. Moses—on a piece of
paper on which Mr. Speer kept his hand. Afterwards Mr. Speer gave
17G Joivraal of Society for Psyckical Research. [.Tan., 18!)4.
Mr. Moses several albums, in one of wliich was a portrait of the
deceased person whose name had thus been written. Mr. Moses identi-
fied that portrait as corresponding to the face which he had seen.
Mr. Speer was now asked whether this could be explained by any
unconscious indications given by himself, or by thought-transference.
He replied that while Mr. Moses was turning over the albums he
(Mr. Speer) was in another part of the room, and looking another
way ; nor did he even know which of the albums Mr. Moses was
examining, until he heard him exclaim, " This is the face I saw."
In reply to other questions, Mr. Speer stated that difference of
place, or of the table round which the circle sat, did not influence the
phenomena. When raps first came in the dining-table, Dr. Speer had
it taken to pieces {i.e., legs unscrewed, &c.), to see if anything had
been fraudulently done to it. It was an old heavy dining-table, which
had been in the house many years, and was found to be in its usual
condition.
Mr. p. W. H. Myers then addressed the meeting, discussing each
in turn of the various hypotheses which might be framed to account
for the recorded phenomena otherwise than as genuine exhibitions of
an unknown force. He concluded by remarking that, even for those
who thus admitted their genuine character, the problem of their true
purport and veritable origin remained unsolved.
A further return to the subject, with especial view to the question
of the identity of the intelligence or intelligences concerned, would be
made at some future meeting.
THE CHARACTER OF MR. D. D. HOME.
The mediumship of D. D. Home has twice been discussed in this
Journal—-^vst in an article by Professor Barrett and myself, with a
collection of first-hand evidence, in a i^eview of The Life of D. D.
Home (Vol. IV., p. 101); and again by myself in a review of The
Gift of D. D. Home (Vol. IV., p. 249). In these papers little was
said as to the impression which Home's personal character produced
on his contemporaries. In Madame Home's two books, indeed, there
is much on that subject ; and conversation with persons who had
known Home well (especially the late Dr. Hawksley) had convinced
me that, after allowing for kindly exaggeration, the testimonies quoted
by Madame Home were not far from the truth. Still it was desirable to
obtain some judgment which, while founded on intimate knowledge,
was not influenced by any special belief or interest in the phenomena
with which Home was associated in most minds. The kindness of
Mr. Andrew Lang allowed me to see a letter written to him by an
Jan., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 177
American lady of literary tastes, who was led by an incidental phrase
of Mr. Lang's to state somewhat fully the view of Home's character
to which a family intimacy during the later years of his life had led
her. Miss Louise Kennedy, of Fairacre, Old Concord, Mass., allows
rae to reproduce here the essential passages of her letter.
" Fairacre, Old Concord, Mass.
''Jtily 18th, 1891.
"I knew Mr. Home very well. He became, in the latter years of his
life, an intimate friend of my family. A Frencli student of such things says
of him that he was an amiable child, ua'u-e and believing, and the sport of
forces of whose nature and power he was utterly ignorant. The physical and
mental wreck he became (years after this appreciation was uttered) seems to
conlirm the insight.
" The chief fact in his character was an egotism so unconscious, so simple,
that it was perfectly childlike. It seemed the most natural thing in the
world to him that he should be cared for, cossettod, and made the centre of
things. He was always contentedly expectant to be carried smoothly and
luxuriously along the road. Thus his relations with Mrs. Lyon, which have
been so effectual in blighting his reputation with the public, to those who
have the clue to his character are entirely in keeping, in a perfectly innocent
way, with this readiness to take, this acceptance of the world at large as of
course as fond of him as he was of himself, which we see in little children, to
whom every good office comes as a matter of course. His share in this
adjustment of things was to be delightfully entertaining and gay, or sym-
pathetic and sentimental, or worldly and sarcastic, just as the jjassing mood
or the casual companion persuaded ; but always genuinely while the moment
lasted. Brightly intelligent, with a singular apprehensiveness of the surface
of the situation he found around liim, which, together with a true though not
deep refinement of taste, would explain his acceptabnity among gently-bred
people, in spite of his humble upbringing, and apart from his wonder-work,
ing ; with a brdliant dramatic faculty which he always delighted to exercise,
ho was a man of marked social charm. Mr. James T. Fields, who had seen
all the stars of the last generation, as of this, told me he placed him above
any reader he had ever heard.
"Ho basked in admiration, and dehghted also to admire—provided his
own dues were not pinched thereby. No other medium had he a good word
for, nor any kind of manifestation he himself had not been favoured with.
He had no discretion in his speech when moved, but poured out denuncia-
tion, taunt, scorn, in a delightfully untrammelled fashion, ' The Blavatsky
'
occupying an exalted place in his niche of execration. But apart from rivals
in his own lines, he was warm-hearted, affectionate, and generous, and in
many respects a most fascinating man.
"A master study of his peculiar character (not on the Sludge lines— that
monumental waste of precious time) would be a striking addition to the
human portrait gallery. Sludge was an elaborate anatomical manufacture
from one small bone -and no portrait. He told me of Mr. Browning, after
Mrs. Browning had cordially greeted him, refu.sing his. hand with a.draniatic'.
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1894.
toss of his own up to his left shoulder. '
And then he wrote a poem which
they say is meant for me '
—this without a shade of resentment or annoyance.
In fact, there was no trace of vindictiveness in his account of Mr. Browning.
He appeared to regard unbelief in himself, or dislike, as a mysterious
dispensation he could not try to account for.
" His relations with his wife, a woman proud and fastidious in the highest
degree, were very charming, and she was deeply devoted to him, as she has
proved in the books published since his death. To her he was the herald
of a new dispensation. It was interesting to see an essentially cynical
mind, with a knowledge of '
the world,' maintain this attitude of adoration
for the prophet, while for the man she was tenderly protective in
practical fashion, with dashes of derision for his simplicity. He suffered
terribly the last few years, and she was angelic, as he fully i-ealised. He
would talk of her unutterable patience with him in his extremities, and with
his graceless son. She falsified in every particular the traditional stepmother's
role, and forgave seventy times seven the ungrateful youth, because he was
the son of the man she so entirely worshipped. To her it was a privilege
to spend herself for so precious a personality, I have dwelt on her par-
ticularly fine and self-contained character—the very opposite of his —because
his first wife has been the subject of so much eulogy, and little has been
said of the one who devoted herself to his darkly shadowed days.
" You may say to all this, '
Quite so, and distinctly mA. a desirable kind of
person.' Well, but at least not a schemer, nor a vulgar adventurer, which is the
usual assumption about him. His belief in his function as a minister of the
'
other world '
was entirely solemn and awe-stricken, though, as he had the
pliability of mind which seems the groundwork of mediumship, and was
affected by any current of thought around him, he may have given occasion
to the doubter by entering into his mood. Indeed, he used to say that he
could not have believed the reality of the manifestations had they not
happened to himself. "Louise Kennepv,"
In a letter to myself Miss Kennedy states that she never personally
witnessed any of Home's phenomena.
I may point out, in conclusion, how completely concordant on all
material points are all the testimonies known to me as to the character
of D. D. Home. There are, indeed, wide differences in the liking
or aversion felt for him ; but these differences seem to depend on a
matter so unimportant for science as the exact shade of effusiveness
and familiarity of manner which his acquaintances were prepared to
enjoy or to tolerate. That there must have been much in him which
refined and dignified persons (especially, perhaps, if not English by
birth) could admire and even love, the history of his two marriages
sufficiently proves. But even if we take the unsympathetic man-of-
the-world's view of him ; if we regard him as a kind of drawing-room
reciter in excelsis, or, as Mr. Lang has phrased it, "a Harold
Skimpole with the gift of divination," the result for our purposes is
Jan., 1804.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
much the same. Neither Home's character nor his abilities, as repre-
sented either by friends or by foes, can be held to render it probable
that he was a master of ingenious and undiscoverable mechanisms, and
a lifelong traitor to his dearest friends.
F. W. H. Myers.
OASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G. 244. Collective Apparition,
For the following account we are indebted to the Rev. C. H. Cope,
an Associate of the S.P.R., who received it from Mr. G. A. Young, of
The Oaks, Faversham, Kent. It was written by a friend of the
latter's, Captain Emmett.
The following is an accurate statement of a supernatural occurrence that
took place at Gibraltar in the year 1839, and which was carefully investigated
by myself on the day after it took place, accompanied by the Eev. Wdliam
Brown, now residing at Gravesend, and never afterwards discovered to have
been anything but that which it professed to be :—
In the month of September, 1839, the Rev.W. Brown called upon me for
the purpose of making known that a story was current about the barracks of
the 46th Regiment, to the effect that a ghost or spirit had been seen in one
of the hospital wards occupied by that regiment, then quartered at the
barracks on the Rock, called "The South," adding that he thought the case
worth investigating, as two persons were said to have seen it at the same
time.
I went with him to the hospital, and after hearing a version of the story
from the hospital sergeant, desired that one of the two men (not the
principal) who had seen the vision might be sent for.
A private of the 46th named Watson (and a patient in the ward) forth-
with attended, and was cautioned by me to be truthful in his statement as I
was about to take it down on paper for severe investigation. I then wrote
down from his mouth the following :
—
"Last night I was lying awake in bed some time after eleven o'clock,
not being able to sleep as there was a rushlight at the far end of the ward
where one of the patients was dying ; also the ward had been disturbed for
the previous two nights by the sound of footsteps slowly walking up and
down the ward. Whdst turning round in my bed I saw someone sitting
upon the foot of the bed of Corporal McQueen. At first I thought it was
McQueen himself, but distinguished his head on the pillow. The person
sitting remained so still that I thought it sufficiently singular to call out to
McQueen, and I called to him, telhng him '
there was someone sittmg upon
the foot of his bed.' He waked up and drew up his knees, and at the same
time the person rose off the foot of the bed, and slowly went up to the head
of it, rested one hand against the wall and stooped down as if to speak to
Corporal McQueen. He drew back his head as if alarmed, and becomm§
180' Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1894.
armed myself, I don't know why, I buried my he.id under the sheets, and
elt so faint that I did not look up again for perhaps half-an-hour, when I no
longer saw anyone by McQueen, who was still sitting up and silent in his
bed. I spoke to him, and he made answer for me to go to sleep and not talk."
I and Mr. Brown cross-examined Private Watson, and came fully to the
conclusion that he was speaking truly according to his belief. He was not
suffering at the time from any disorder affecting the brain. We dismissed
him and called in Corporal McQueen. His disorder was simply an injury to
the foot or ankle, and likewise not affecting the brain. I warned him as I
had done Private Watson, and I then took down his statement in writing, as
follows :
"Last night about 12 o'clock I was awaked Ijy Private Watson, who sleeps
opposite to me. He told me that there was someone sitting upon the foot of
my bed, and at the same time I saw a person just rising oil' it and coming
towards me. There was enough light by means of a rushhght at the other
end of the room to let me see it was not one of the patients, and I gradually-
distinguished the dress to be grave clothes—a long gown of flannel edged with
black tape, and tied up about the wrists and neck with bows of the same ; a
kind of hood was swathed round the head and face. The figure leant down
over me, and at first I felt much alarmed and shrank back. The figure said
something, my name, I think, and added :
'
I am the spirit of Mary Madden,
and bespeak your attention.'
" Mary Madden had been the wife of a comi'ade of that name, now at the
Depot of the 46th in Ireland, and she had died just about this time last year,
I was a great friend of hers, and was beside her when she died, and put her
into her coflin. She was dressed precisely tlic same as the figure then before
me."
Quedlon: "Were the face and voice like Mrs. Madden's ?
"
Ansiver : "I could distinguish no face at all. The voice was not like
Mrs. Madden's, or any voice I had ever heard ;
it seemed to shin tlii'<iiiijti vnj
head."
The witness continued :
—
" I then felt rather reassured, and asked her what she wanted. She
replied 'that I must communicate with her late husband, Madden, and
severely warn him as to a certain evil course he was pursuing ; that he was to
desist, and that, if he did not desist, his soul would be in immediate peril.'
She then told me to warn him of some other matter, and finished by telling
me, hy u-ay of proof that slie was Mrs. Madden's sjyirit, a circumstance and
conversation unknown to anyone in the world, that took place between us
bofore her death, and this I must decline repeating. It ivas proof to me that
Mary Madden's spirit was then beside me, and notlivnej on earth will concince
me to the contrary. After exacting a promise from me that I would fulfil her
wish, she said she would not again trouble the ward, and bid me farewell.
She then went to the fireplace, and groped over it with her hands about the
wall, then turned round and again came towards me, but gradually looked
more and more indistinct until at last I lo.st sight of her altogether. I then
became very faint and awe-struck, and remained awake until daylight,
.Tax., 18!H.] Journal of Societjj for PsycJdcal Research. 181
"I have this morning written to her hushand in Ireland, in compliance with
her wish. There were about 18 men in the Avard, but with the exception of
the dying man in the corner and Private Watson, I think they were all
asleep. This is all I can say of the matter."
Corporal McQueen about three months afterwards came to England with
other invalids, and was with them placed under my command on board the
Basett, .Junior Transport. I reminded him of the above matter, and ho
steadily adhered to his story without tlie slightest variation. Mr. Brown
and myself are fully of opinion that he was speaking the plain and unex.
aggerated truth. M. Emmett,
Captain, Royal Bucks Militia.
Weedon Barracks, fieptemher, 18.54.
Mr. Young informed us that this account, which was printed for
private circulation, was a copy of an original manuscript in his
possession, written in 18.54, and he kindly allowed us to see the manu-
script for comparison with the printed copy. The accompanying letter
from Miss Young explains further the circumstancf s under which it
was written.
The Oaks, Faversham, Od<:her 27th, [1893],
Dear Sir,—My fatlier does not know whether Captain Emmett is still
living ; it ]S now many years since he last saw him. My father and Captain
Ennnett had both been in the army, Captain Emmett in the 46th, my
father in the 8th. On leaving the army they both joined the Royal Bucks
Militia, and were (quartered together at Weedon. It was then that they iirst
made acquaintance and that Captain Emmett told my father this curious
narrative. He was so much interested in it that Captain Emmett v\ rote it
all down for him from the notea which he had himself taken at the time. This
was in tlie year 18.54, the event having taken pLice in 1839. [Thus] the
essential part of the narration is practically dated the day after the event,
as it is copied by Captain Emmett from the notes he himself took when
investigathig the affair. Agnes A. Young.
The next is a case of an apparently veridical hallucination, taking
what may be regarded as a symbolic form.
L. 966. Ad Pe Visual.
From Miss M. H. Williams, of 11, Cleveland-terrace, Coatham, Redcar.
'•September 23rd, 1889.
" I was living at home with my parents at Eston-in-Cleveland. There
was a working man called Long living in the village, not far from our house,
whose wife was taken ill. Dr. Fultcn, who at that time was staying with
us, came in one night between 9 and 10 o'clock and said Mrs. Long was
dying. After that we sat talking over the fire a good while, and then my
sister Isabella and I went ofl' to bed. We slept in a back bedroom, and after
we got to this bedroom I said, '
Oli, I've forgotten something in the large
bedroom. ' To this latter I proceeded by myself, and, as I approached the
door, something seemed to say to me, '
You'll see something of Mrs. Long,
182 Journal of Society for Psychiccd Research, [Jan., 1894.
living or dead ! ' But I thought no more of this, and entered the bedroom,
which I had to cross to the opposite end for what I wanted. When I had
got the things in my hand, I noticed a lovely light hanging over my head.
It was a round light—perfectly round. I had taken no light with me, but
went for the things I wanted in the dark. I looked to see if there was any
light coming in from the windows, but there was none : in that direction
there was total darkness. I grasped one hand with the other and stood
looking at the strange light to be sure that I was not deceived and was not
imagining it. I walked across the room to the door, and all the way the
light was hanging between my head and the ceiling. It was akin to the
electric light : sometliing of a cloud, though every part of it was beaming
and running over with light. It left me at tlic bedroom door. On first
seeing it a strange impression seized me, and after it left me I was so
impressed that I could not speak of it to anyone for a day or two. I
wondered at the time whetlxer it had anything to do with Mrs. Long, and on
inquiry I found that she died just about the time when I saw the light. If
there was any difference, I judged it would be a little before, but there
would not be much in it. This would be about 11 p.m., and about four
years ago. It left an impression on my mind wliich I have never forgotten,
and never shall forget. Mrs. Long was not ill many days—about two or
three ; she died rather suddenly. I was rather interested in her. I did not
Bee her during her illness, but had often seen her and talked to her before.
I was perfectly well at the time, and was in no trouble or anxiety. My age
at the time was 23. I have had no experience of the kind before or since.
I saw no figure, only a lovely light. Before telling my sister I made her
promise she would not ridicule me nor call me superstitious.
" To the best of my recollection this is a correct statement.
" Mary Helena WiLLiAJis.
I'
p_g___The light which I saw was a palish blue. It emitted no rays, so
tliat all the rest of the room was in darkness. It was wider in circumference
than my head, so that as I walked I could see it above me without raising
my head. As I left the room it remained, and when I looked again was
gone. It was in a corner, where the darkness of the room was deepest and
the least chance of illumination from the windows on the right and left, that
I first saw it above my head. I had no fear, but a kind of sacred awe.
The light was unlike any otlier that I ever saw, and I should say brighter
than any other, or, at least, purer. Looking at it did not affect the eyes.
It was midway between my head and the ceiling."
The sister who was with Miss Williams at the time corroborates her
account as follows :
" I recollect my sister Lily seeing the bright light. When she came back
to the room where I was she was quite pale, and sat down on the floor. She
was so awe-struck that she did not tell us what she had seen till the next
day. I remember that a woman who lived near us died about the time my
sister saw the light, and that we connected the two circumstances together.
^'August 8tK 1891." "Isabella Fulton.
Jan., 1804.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 183
In the next case it would seem"that the telepathic impression was received
by a person for whom it was not intended.
L. 967. Ae P Auditory.
[All the names in this account are assumed, the real names having l)een
given us in confidence.]
The percipient. Miss M. Clarke, is nursemaid in the family of Mrs.
Thompson, through whom we obtained tlie account.
''January Wi, 1891.
"In the year 1890 we came to live at Firbeck House, tlie family place,
where Mr. Thomi3Son's father and mother had lived, and wliei-e their two
youngest children were born. We had been in the house about a month,
and I and tlie three youngest children were sleeping in the room on the
front landing hitherto occupied by Mr. Thompson's only sister, whose name
is Margaret. I had not gone to bed, but was sitting over the fire about
12 p.m., or later, when, hearing someone say 'Margaret,' I thought Mrs.
Thompson (who slept on the same landing) was calling me, and I went out
of the room expecting to find her in the passage. I stood a moment, seeing
no one there, and heard a deep sigh close to me. I was so astonished at
hearing this and seeing no one, as I had quite expected, that I felt I could
not turn round, and I went backwards way into my room again and shut the
door. It made me feel rather nervous. The next morning I told the
governess what I had heard, and said to her, '
I will not tell Mrs. Thompson,
as she is nervous in this house.' This haj^pened on the Saturday night.
On the following Monday, February 10th, Mrs. Thompson got a telegram in
the afternoon to say Mr. Edward, her youngest brother-in-law, had just died
quite suddenly of apoplexy at an hotel.
" I was in my usual health ;
my age was nearly 37 years.
"I had seen Mr. Edward about two months before, but we knew nothing
of what he was doing at the time. Mr. and Mrs. Thompson have since been
told that Mr. E . Thompson was ill on the Saturday night and Sunday morn-
ing, and that his thoughts were evidently dwelling much upon his sister, to
whom all her brothers are much attached, and who was a good deal older
than this brother. He was better on the Sunday afternoon, and his death
on Monday was quite unexpected, and his family none of them knew that he
was poorly till they heard of his death.
" I told the governess next morning, and I told Mrs. Thompson after wes
heard of the death. "Margaret Claeke."
The account given was written by Mrs. Thompson, and .signed by the
percipient, of whom Mrs. Thompson says :
—"I believe [her] to be as sane
and as trustworthy as any person I know."
In reply to our request for confirmatory evidence, Mrs. Thompson
writes :
—
''Fehruary 6th, 1892.
" I enclose the corroborative statement of our late governess [Miss Ball]
as to the incident connected with Mr. E. Thompson's death, but I wish to
draw your attention to the fact, which I think is distinctly brought out in
.the account, that he was extremely ill on Saturday night, and constantly
184 Journal of Society for Paychieal RefiearcJi. [Jan.,
talking of his sister ; but it was not until 3Iond<nj afternoon that he died and
we revived the telegram, that being our first intimation that anything was
wrong. I believe he was considered not to be exactly in his full senses
during the Saturday night. He died more than 40 miles away."
The statement enclosed was as follows :
—
Fiihruary itli, lb\)^.
" I remember perfectly well Margaret telling me about the above-men-
tioned incident, also that it happened on a Saturday night, and that she
told me on the following Sunday morning ;
but I cannot remember how long
before Mr. Edward's death—it must certainly have been about a month after
our coming to Firbeck House.
"Margaret told me she was getting ready for bed hi the room that had
been Miss Thompson's, when she heard someone call ' Margaret.' She was
so sure of it that she went outside expecting to meet you coming along the
landing h-om your room, but on getting a little way and seeing no one she
stood a moment to listen, when she heard a deep sigh. She then went back
to her room an:l to bed, feeling rather nervous. On telling me next morn-
ing, we both thought we had better say nothing to you about it, as it might
only set you against the house and make you nervous ;
but when Mr.
Edward died so soon after, we thought it might have been him wanting to
sneak t(j Miss Thompson. I believe Margaret mentioned it to you after his
ckath.
"Edith Ball."
L. 968. Ae pi 1\ictilo.
From Miss A. T. [These initials are assumed, the real name having been
given us in confidence.]
" jVoi;efli,6er Uth, 1889.
"At Exeter, one afternoon in spring, March, 1882, I had a distinct
impressi.)n of feeling a hand grasp my arm, and felt a rough coat against
my shoulder. I had a vague sort of impression that a friend of mme, who
was then in South Africa, was appealing to me in some way, and was in
distress. I wrote out to South Africa at once, and after some months dis-
covered he was very ill, having fallen from the top of a house on that day.
"I was writing a letter to a comparative stranger. I was in good health
and spirits, and very busy. [My age was] 19.
" I had not seen this friend for several years, but was much mterested
in him. I occasionally heard from him by letter. I was not thinking of
him at the time, and was much startled by the sudden feeling.
^ ^ ^
Miss T. says further that this is the only hallucination she has ever had.
She also says:— "As far as I can remember, I did note the date at the
time and subsequently found that the accident had happened at the very
moment I received that peculiar impression." " [I] can give no corrobora-
tive testimony. My impression is that I did mention the circumstance m a
casual, half-joking way to my companions at the time, but I am positive not
in a manner that would make them attach any importance to my words and
remember them afterwards ;
and wheni did hear of the accident months after,
Jan., 189-1.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 185
I was in another place, having left Exeter for some time. I was in a most
matter-of-fact mood at the time-reading, I think-and my thoughts were
not in the least occupied with the individual ni question."
Mrs. Sidgwick called on Miss T. later, and gives the following account ot
her interview, written from notes made at the time.
''April nth, 1892.
"I saw Miss A. T. on April 6th, and talked over her experience with
her She told me that she was reading when it happened. She said she
felt" as if someone leant agamst her and seized her arm, as if holding on
for support She at once thought of her godfather, who was m South
\frica and looked up from the book she was reading to speak to him before
die remembered that he could not be there. She then told her fellow
teachers who were in the room, what a strange feelmg she had had, but
it is unlikely they would remember it. They knew nothing of the coincidence
even She made, she says, a written note of date, and when her godfather
came home which he did as soon as he could travel after his accident, she
compared notes and found the date was that of his HCCKleiit. The n..to
was destroyed with other papers later. Her godfather fell oft the roof of a
house, and injured himself seriously internally, and had to return to England
to have an operation performed in consequence."
The next two cases are instances of apparently veridical impressions, in
the form of mind's-eye visions, not completely externalised.
L. 969.
The first was received from Miss C. H. Grange, 34, Old Broad-street, E.G.
"I was staying with friends in one of the Eastern Counties. Shortly
after [I had come], my friend, Mrs. B., wrote to her sister in the North,
iskinrr her to send off by train the colley dog which was only waiting at
the o!d home until his mistress was ready to receive him. We were all
anxious to welcome 'Barrie,' who was an old friend, alrd accordmgly were
exceedingly pleased when a letter arrived, saying that he had been duly
despatched by express train. This letter arrived on a Monday n.ormng,
and the writer [added], '
The station-master here tells me that Barrie
should reich on Monday morning, or possibly even on Sunday, if
not delayed in London.' , . „. , i.
"One o'clock came, and with it the sad intelligence that as yet nothing
had been heard of our colley. At intervals during that afternoon and
eveniii" one or other of us might have been seen on the platform, inter-
viewing porters as to the probable cause of the delay experienced by
'
Barrie ' on his journey.
r t . m t t i i i
" Tuesday's letter bag contained a letter [saying], To-day I have had a
telegram from the station-master at York, saying that on Saturday afternoon
" Barrie
" slipped his collar and disappeared.'
" The days passed by, and we never failed to include the station m our
daily walk,' always with the same iiuestion on our lips, 'Any news of
Mrs. B.'s dog ? ' but a favourable reply never came. .
.
186 journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1894.
" [On Friday of the saiue week] we arranged to visit Cambridge, and to
spend several liours in that most interesthig town. On the return journey,
[being] very tired, most complete was the silence which fell upon us. As
far as I can remember, no one had mentioned '
Barrie's ' name since the
usual inquiry had been made in the morning, and indeed, as a week had
now elapsed since his loss we were beginning [to give up the hope of
recovering him.]
'
' Like all the rest, I was in a semi-sleeping condition. I do not say asleep,
for then what follows would be a dream, and certainly it was scarcely that
no, merely hi a tired condition of mind and body, I felt that peculiar sensa-
tion which I am sure has been felt by many, that is, that though sufficiently
awake to know what is going on around, still your real mind seems to be far
away and almost separate from your surroundings. It seemed to me that I
was walking down a road, and before me I could see quite plainly the colley
dog of which we had spoken and thought so much, being led by a man who
held hi)n with a rope. I followed him with interest until he was taken up to
a door Avhich I saw opened, and the flood of light from within showed me
the well-known figure of [Mrs. B.'s] maid-servant. It all appeared to
me so vivid that I suddenly started up and said to Mrs. B., 'Edith
" Barrie " is f(jund !
'
Everyone was taken aback by the suddenness of this
statement, and Mrs. B. laughingly said, 'Nonsense! how can you possibly
know, and why raise false hopes in my mind ?
' I then, quite awake and
looking most intently at her, replied, '
Yes, he is found, and when we arrive
at Station the first thing to happen will be that a porter will come up
and say, "Mrs. B., your dog is found.'" Then I went on describing the
scene of which I had just imagined myself to be a witness, saying, ' Ah,
there I see him going down the road. Now [the maid] is opening the
door.' Here there was a universal laugh, and at last I joined in it, whereat
all visions vanished. Still I nuiintained my opinion that the colley was
safe in , and when Dr. B. remarked that if all happened as I had said
I should have a pair of gloves, I agreed, and promised him a pair if
'
Barrie '
should prove still to be missing.
" In about forty minutes after this the train drew up at ,
and
Dr. B. opened the door and stepped out; just as he was giving his hand
to Edith, a porter came up to her and said, 'Mrs. B., your dog is
found.' She exclaimed, '
Where is he ?
' The man replied by whistling to
a fellow porter, who brought the dog from the other end of the platform,
and '
Barrie '
was soon overwhelming his mistress with rather boisterous
caresses. On our way home. Dr. B. remarked that I was only entitled
to o)t,e glove, as the scene I had so graphically described of the dog being led
down the road was a myth. But on our arrival at the house, our first greet-
ing from the maid was, '
Oh, it really is your dog, Mrs. B. ; I would not
take him in when the porter brought him about three-quarters of an hour ago.
" I was paid [the] bet. " C, H. Grange."
Miss Grange tells us that the incident occurred in April, 1884, and that
the above account was written some Weeks later, on her return home from
visiting Mrs. B.
Jan., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 187
Dr. and Mrs. B. added to the account a corroborative note, signed by
botli of them, to the following effect:
—
"Without accepting any psychical theory whatever as bearing upon the
subject, we can state that the above-mentioned facts have been, to the best
of our recollection, quite correctly recorded."
This note was written in May, 1893.
A letter from Mrs. B. to Miss Grange, encloshig it, says :—" I remember
about it, and what I forget [Dr. B.] says he remembers, and vice versa, so we
can with a clear conscience sign it for you."
This!'asewt°obtained through Mr. A. Aksakof, from Mr. S. Manoukhino.
" St. Petersburg, March, 1891.
"C'etait en 1882, au commencement de I'hiver, a St. Petersburg, lorsque
je vivais avec mon beau-pere, M. Alex. Aksakof. Un «oir, vers les y
heures, quand je m'occupais des affaires de mon service (au Mnnstere cte ia
Justice), le cours de mes idees fut tout a coup interrompu par une nnpression
subite etmomentanee :-Je vis ma fiancee, Mme. H(51ene P., ^u bras de son
parent, M. S., montant I'escalier, qui menait a la Salle de 1 Exposition
d'Electricite, qui avait lieu ce soir. En meme temps j'avais la ferme convic-
tion que ceci n'etait pas une image de mon imagination, mais un tait reel.
Je continual mon travail, tout etonne de cet incident, <iui otait tout a tait
contraire a ce qui avait etc convenu entro nous le matin meme de ce ]our, et
nommement; M. S. avait propose d'accompagner Mme. P. .
a 1 exposition,
mais il fut decide que c'est moi-meme qui Taccompagnerait ;
xMme. r.
m'avait proinis d'aller avec moi, et je n'avais aucun motif de douter de sa
parole. Le lendemain, avant -lu'elle me parla, je lui dit qu'elle avait ete a
I'exposition avec M. S., ce qui se trouva etre vrai.
" Skrge Manoukhine."
Mrs. Manoukhinc writes :
—
" Je certifie I'exactitude de ce fait. ,
"Helkne Makoukhine.
Mr. Manouklune writes further :
—
"J'ai eu un autre cas de double-vue qu'il ne m'est pas possible de
relater."
THE COMMITTEE FOR THE SYSTEMATIC INVESTIGATION
OF HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA.
At a meeting of the Council on October 6th last, this committee
was formed, and the following were appointed to serve thereon:—
Messrs. T. Barkworth, A. W. Barrett, M. B. Lond., W. Leaf, Litt. D
A. T. Myers, M.D., and F. Podmore ; and subsequently the Committee
added the following to their number :—Messrs. J. M. Bramwell, M.D.,
G. Albert Smith, and E. Westlake. -
l88 Journal of Society for Psychical UesearcJi. [Jan., isy4.
Since October 18th the Committee have met at the Rooms of the
Society on Tuesday evenings at 8 p.m., and their efforts have hitherto
been chiefly in the direction of investigating thought-transference Avith
liypnotised subjects.
The Committee will be glad to receive active help, on which they
feel that their usefulness must largely depend. They hope to hear
from Members and Associates of the Society generally as to any cases
of apparent thought-transference or clairvoyance that may be open to
their investigation. They are also particularly anxious to secure the
co-operation of persons susceptible to the action of hypnotism.
Offers of assistance are warmly invited, and communications may
be sent to any members of the Committee.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list (Journal fur June, 1893),
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Vincent (R. Harry), The Elements of Hypnotism ; Its Pheno-
mena, Its Dangers and Value Lundon, 1893
NizET (Henri), L'Hypnutisme. Etude Critique Brussels, N.D.
Heckeu (Dr. Ewald), Hypnose und Suggestion im Dienste der
Heilkunde Wiesbaden, 1893
KiESEWETTEK (Carl), Franz Anton Mesnier's Leben und Lehre.
Nebst einer Vorgeshichte des Mesmerismus, Hypnotismus,
und Somnambulismus LeipzKj, 1893
Rells (Edmund W.), Psychologische Skizzen Lei^x.ig, 1893*
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Chakravarti (K.), Yoga-Sastri. Lectures on Hindu Religion,
Philosophy and Yoga Calcutta, 1893*
Dendy (Walter C, M.R.C.S.), On the Phenomena of Dreams and
other Transient Illusions London, 1832
Hart (Ernest), Hypnotism, Mesmerism, and the New Witchcraft.
London, 1893|
Hopps (.John Page), Death a Delusion London, [1893]
Kirk (Rev. Robert, M.A.), The Secret Commonwealth of Elves,
Fauns, and Fairies, a.d. 1691. The Comment by Andrew
J^ninr London, 18931
MVERS (F. W. H.), Science and a Future Life, with Other Essays.
London, 1893*
Spirit Teachings through the Mediumship of William
Stainton Moses (M.A. Oxon.). Memorial Edition. io)ido)i, 1894§
(Another copy.)
* Presented by the Author. + Presented by Mr. Andrew Lang.
t Presented by a Member. § Presented by Mrs. Syeer.
No. CVII—Vol. VI. Feb., 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates 189
General Meeting 190
Annual Business Meeting 19S
Jleeting of the Council 191
Obituary:—
Dr. Myers 195'
Professor Heinrich Hertz . . . 197
The Committee for the Systematic Investigation of Hypnotic Plienomena 199
Correspondence 200
Italian Translation wanted 207
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 207
Balance Sheet for the year 1893 208
NEW MExMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Memhers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Apsley-Smith, Mrs., Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Bailey, Mrs. H. H., 50, Clarendon-road, Holland-park, W.
Best, Mrs. J. Rycroft, 8, Lennox-road South, Southsea, Hants.
Caithness, The Countess of, Duchesse de Pomar, 124,
Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Dutt, R. C, C.I.E., Burdwan, Bengal, India.
Elliot, Gilbert, 10, Hanover-square, London, W.
Galloway, The Countess of, 17, Upper Grosvenor-street, W.
Govett, The Yen. Archdeacon, M.A., Gibraltar.
Hannah, Robert, 82, Addison-road, Kensington, W.
Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Horton, William T., Millside, Hatchlands-road, Ptedhill, Surrey.
Jackson, Rev. F., The Vicarage, Newton-upon-Rawcliffe, Pickering.
Jones, Thomas R., M.R.C.S. Lond., L.R.C.P. I., L.M.I., 26, Lome-
road, Birkenhead.
Mayor, Pt. G., King's College, Cambridge.
McCaul, Miss, Creggandarroch, Chislehurst.
OzANNE, Ma,jor Charles H., 8, Victoria-road, Old Charlton, S.E.
Park, Miss Margaret L. M., 23, Mecklenburgh-square, W.C.
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894.
Phillimore, R. C, 86, Eaton-place, London, S.W.
Smith, Henry, M.D. (Jena), Cravensea, Cockington, Torquay.
Stewart, Miss Susan, 89, Philbeach-gardens, London, S.W.
Tebb, Albert E., M.D., Heathfield, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Walker, Mrs. Emma, 42, Kingsnorth-gardens, Folkestone.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH. 4-
Alexander, W. L., Canton, Ohio, U.S.A.
BuLLEY, R. H., Canton, Ohio, U.S.A.
Carpenter, W. 0., 517, Adams-street, Chicago, III, U.S.A.
Hall, Mrs. David, 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
Hudson, Thomson Jay, 10, Ninth-st., S.E., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Jackson, Mrs. Flora S., 558, Milwaukee-st., Milwaukee, Wis., U.S.A.
Perkins, Mrs. Chas. E., 223, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Shaav, Mrs. F. G., 120, East 30th-street, New York, U.S.A.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 63rd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall on Friday, January 26th, at 3 p.m. ;
the President,
Mr. A. J. Balfour, in the chair. The meeting was a crowded one.
^
The President, after referring to the loss the Society had sustained
by the death of Dr. A. T. Myers and of our Corresponding Member,
Professor Hertz, spoke of the relation between the results the Society
has arrived at and the general point of view of science. Looking back
to the facts brought forward by Mesmer a century ago, he found that,
even allowing for the effect of Mesmer's error in inventing a bad
theory to account for them, the scientific world of the time had neg-
lected its obvious duty of dealing with the new problem, and explain-
ing it if it could. At the same time he admitted that an age could not
be" expected to do more than the special work set before it, and the
special work of the last hundred years had been the reconstruction of
almost the whole body of sciences from top to bottom. Granting, how-
ever, that men of science might have been justified in their attitude
towards Mesmer's discoveries for the past century, he could not admit
that they would be justified in maintaining that attitude towards
occult subjects in the present day. He thought the time had come
when, in their own interest, as in the interests of others, the leaders of
scientific thought in this country and elsewhere should recognise that
there were well-attested facts which did not naturally fall into the
framework of the sciences or of organised experience as they conceived
it ; he thought that they should investigate these, or at least assist
Feb., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 191
othei's in doing so. Ho said that there were difficulties connected with
these investigations, witli which scientitic men are not famihar in their
ordinary work. There was the difficulty of fraud and unconscious self-
deception ; and there was the difficulty of dealing, as it seemed, with
cases in which, not the normal five senses that all command, but some
abnormal and half-completed senses come into play. Experiments
cannot be repeated at will, because they deal with exceptional gifts of
exceptional individuals. But he thought it unphilosophical to refuse
to investigate because of these difficulties. For himself, he saw no
inherent, no a 2^riori improbability in such half-formed senses being
sporadically developed in the human race. So far from that, if the
theory of development and natural selection were really sound, it was
exactly what one would expect, for it seemed unreasonable to suppose
that the senses, which had been elaborated because they were fitted
to make the organism survive in the struggle for existence, should be
in correspondence with the whole of external nature. There must
be countless forms of being, countless real existences, which, had the
line of our evolution gone in a differeat direction, or had the neces-
sities of our primitive ancestors been of a different kind, we might have
had senses enabling us to deal with experimentally. He would expect
that here and there we should find the Ijeginnings of such senses—mere
bye-products of the great natural manufactory, mere beginnings, never
destined to come to anything. It might be that in cases of abnormal
development Ave came across faculties which, had it been worth
N"ature's while to develop them for any purpose in the struggle for
existence, would have been normally found in the whole race, and
would have enabled us to experiment on the phenomena v/hich we now
reo-ard as occult, with the same certainty that we investigate matters
open to the ordinary operation of the senses. If this were so, he did
not think that the irregularity of our results, which was one of their
most provoking characteristics, ought to furnish any argument against
the truly scientific character of our work.
But this theory of imperfectly developed senses was not enough, he
thought, to account for all the difliculties with which we have to deal.
It was easy to imagine senses which we might have had, and which
would merely confirm results already arrived at by scientific men. But
the difficulty about our investigations was that we seemed to come across
facts which, if well established—as they appeared to be—could not, as
he judged, be made by any manipulation to fit into the interstices of
the accepted view of the physical world ;
if that were so, we were
eno-aged in a work of prodigious difficulty, but of an importance of which
the difficulty was only a measure ; for we were on the threshold, so to
speak, of a whole new set of the laws of nature.
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894.
There was, for instance, an accumulated mass of evidence for tele-
pathy, yet telepathy cannot be fitted in with the acknowledged
scientific view of the universe, without doing it a violence which the
facts would not, he thought, bear. After pointing out some of the
difficulties of thus fitting it in, he said that the absence of anything
exciting in telepathic experiments made them some of the best with
which we can make a breach in the wall which now surrounds the
universe as we conceive it to exist. He was aware that many
members of the Society approached the subjects with which we
deal from a different point of view from that which he had
touched upon. We do investigate phenomena of a far more start-
ling character, and he thought we did well. He was far from
desiring to discourage those who wish to get direct evidence, for
example, of such a fact as the communication with intelligences not
endowed with a physical organisation such as we have experience of.
But while there was sufficient evidence to make this a field of examina-
tion well worthy of our efforts, it was not that in which our
labours come closest to existing scientific results. What he had
aimed at was to deal with the scientific aspects of our work,
being desirous above all things to enlist in our service the best
experimental and scientific ability which we can command. If
we could repeat very definite and very simple experiments, which
do not fit in with hitherto accepted conclusions, sufficiently
often and under tests sufiiciently rigid, it would be impossible for
physicists to ignore our results. They would have to help us, as far
as they can, to unravel the very refractory class of problems with which
we are endeavouring to deal. Wliether their efforts or ours would be
crowned with success, he did not know. He had already indicated the
special difficulties and limitations with which we had to deal. But if he
rightly estimated the value of the results we had obtained, it seemed to
him that at least we should be able to prove that outside the world, as,
scientifically, we have been in the habit of conceiving it, there lay a
region, not open, indeed, to experimental observation in the same way
that the more familiar regions of the material world were open, but
still with regard to which some information could be gleaned ;
and if
we could not, as the result of our exertions, discover what laws
these strange phenomena obeyed, it would, at all events, be something
to have shown, not as a matter of speculation or conjecture, but as a
matter of ascertained fact, that there were things in " heaven and
earth " which were beyond the philosophy even of the most scientific.
Mr. Leap then read a paper by Mr. Andrew Lang, entitled " Cock
Lane and Common Sense." The story of the Cock Lane Ghost was
examined, with the conclusion that the true solution of the puzzle had
Feb , 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 193
not yet been found. Nai'ratives of similar occurrences in different
countries and at different periods were described and referred to, and
the "common sense" explanations which had been offered were criticised
and found insufficient. With regard to the stories narrated in the
paper, no conclusion, he said, could be drawn from them ;
but there
was a chain of such things through the ages, and in wandering in Cock
Lane they were in the company of savages, philosophers, divines, saints,
and hypnotists.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
The Twelfth Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the
Society was held at the Westminster Town Hall on January 26th
;
Professor Sidgwick in the chair.
In opening the proceedings. Professor Sidgwick said he was glad to
be in a position to make a satisfactory report of the Society during the
past year. The total number of Members of all classes had increased
from 804 to 877. The American Branch had also increased during the
year from 480 to 521.
An audited statement of the receipts and expenditure of the Society
during 1893 was presented to the meeting. In the accompanying
letter, the auditor says " I have had the pleasure of auditing your
accounts for 1893, and have duly certified their accuracy. I am glad
to notice the same care exercised by Mr. Bennett; as has been always
shown." The statement appears as usual in the Journal. Referring to
the financial position of the Society, the Chairman read a statement of
assets and liabilities at the close of 1893. This showed an excess of
assets of £260, as against the corresponding amount of £170 a year
ago ; no account being taken in either case of the value of the library,
or of the stock of Proceedings. The whole of what had been received
for Life Subsci^iptions was now invested ; and as this amount is almost
exactly equalled by the excess of assets above referred to, the financial
position may be considered sound and satisfactory. He also dwelt
with satisfaction on the prosperous condition of the American Branch.
Referring to the " Second Sight Inquiry," he said that £34 had been
expended out of the fund placed at the disposal of the Society by the
Marcpis of Bute, and that the inquiry was still in progress.
Proceeding to the annual election of a portion of the Council, the
Chairman said that no further nominations having been made since
the usual notice had been sent round to members, he had only to
declare that Mr. G. P. Bidder, Q.C., Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., Dr. C. W.
Lockhart Robertson, and himself were duly elected. He felt, how-
ever, he could not pass from this part of the business without refer-
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Fj!d., 1894.
ring to the great loss which the Council and the Society had sustained
in the death of Dr. A. T. Myers.
Professor Sidgwick invited remarks from the members present,
either on the financial position, or on any other matter connected with
the interests of the Society. There being no response, he declared the
meeting at an end.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual Business Meeting,
Professor Sidgwick occupying the chair, and there being also present
Col. Hartley^ Professor Ftamsay, and Messrs. W. Crookes, W. Leaf
F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and R. Pearsall
Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
G. W. Balfour, Esq., M.P., Thos. Barkworth, Esq., J. Milne
Bramwell, Esq., M.B,, the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, K.T., and
Sydney 0. Scott, Esq., were co-opted as members of the Council for
the ensuing year, in accordance with Ptule 17.
Report was made that the Annual Business Meeting had been held
and members of Council elected as stated above.
Professor William James, of Harvard University, U.S.A., was
elected President of the Society for the ensuing year.
The Right Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., was elected a
Vice-President of the Society.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was elected as Hon. Treasurer, and Messrs.
F. W. H. Myers and F. Podmore were elected as Hon. Secretaries for
the ensuing year.
A Minute was adopted recording with deep regret the great loss
which the Society has sustained since the last meeting of the Council
in the death of Dr. A. T. Myers, whose services were of exceptional
value, and of a kind which it will be difficult to replace.
The Council had at the same time to record the deaths of a
distinguished Corresponding Member of the Society, Professor Dr. H.
Hertz ; of two other Meml^ers, the Right Hon. Edward Stanhope, M.P.,
and the Dean of Lincoln ; also of an Associate, Mr. W. Paice, who
joined the Society almost at its commencement, and of two foreign
Associates, Professor Rossi-Pagnoni, of Pesaro, and the Rev. Joseph
Thompson, of Demerara.
At the request of Mrs. CoUison, of Weybridge, her name is trans-
ferred from- the position of Associate to that of Member.
Three new Members and twenty new Associates were elected, whose
names and addresses are given on the preceding pages, with the excep-
Feb., 1804.] Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli. 195
tion of one Associate, who desires that her name ma}^ not be included
in the printed list. The election of one ncAv Member and seven new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded. Eleven more
resimations from various causes at the end of 1893 were recorded.
o
The Committees were re-elected as follows, with power to add to
their number :
—
Committee of Reference. —Professor Barrett, Mr. W. Crookes, Dr.
R. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Professor Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart Pvobertson, Professor Sidgwick, Pro-
fessor Thomson, Dr. J. Yenn, and Mrs. Yerrall.
Literary Committee.—Mr. T. Barkworth, Dr. W. Leaf, Mr. P. W,
H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Professor Sidgwick, and Mrs. Sidgwick.
Library Committee.—Col. Hartley, Mr. P. H. Myers, and Dr.
C. Lloyd Tuckey.
Hypnotic Plienomena.—Mr. T. Barkworth, Mr. A. W. Barrett,
M.B. ; Mr. J. M. Bramwell, M.B. ; Dr. W. Leaf, Mr. P. Podmore,
Mr. G. Albert Smith, and Mr. E. Westlake.
Finance Committee.—Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
and Lieut. -Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
The lists of Correispondiog Members and Honorary Associates were
gone through.
A number of presents to the Library were reported, including a
copy of '•'
Spirit Teachings,'"' from Mrs. Speer ; two copies of the same
book from the London Spiritualist Alliance :
'
' The Gospel of Inter-
pretation " from Mr. E. Maitland ;
" The A^eil Lifted,'' from the pub-
lishers ; "Der Hypnotismus," by Dr. Wetterstrand, from Mr. H. E.
Crump ; also a number of books and pamphlets from the executors of
the late Dr. Myers. For all these the thanks of the Council were
accorded.
The Finance Committee was requested to prepai'e an estimate of
the income of the Society and a scheme of expenditure for the current
year, and to present it to the next Meeting of the Council.
Some other matters of business ha^dng been disposed of, the
Council agreed to meet at 19, Buckingham-street, W.C, on Friday
March 9th, at 4 -30 p.m.
OBITUARY.
DR. MYERS.
It is with deep regret that w-e record the death of Dr. A. T. Myers,
which took place on January 10th, after two days' illness;—the bi-ief
termination of long years of gradually increasing ill-health, which he
bore with singular courage and cheerfulness, and resolute determi-
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb.,
nation to turn his inexorably restricted activities to the utmost account
for the service of mankind.
Arthur Thomas Myers was born at Keswick in 1851. His educa-
tion was unusually compreheasive and well balanced. At Cheltenham
School, and as an undergraduate scholar at Trinity College, Cambridge,
he studied chiefly languages and literature : but after taking a first
class in classics in 1873, he turned to science and medicine, obtained
honours in the Natural Sciences Tripos, and became an M.D. of his
university in 1881. After completing his medical training, he was
house-physician at St. George's Hospital and registrar in the medical
wards for some years, and afterwards—almost till his death—was on
the staff of the Belgrave Children's Hospital. Last year he was
elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians. He contributed
various papers of interest to the leading medical journals ;
and
but for the protracted remediless malady to which he ultimately
succumbed, he would have had every prospect of attaining high
medical distinction.
Dr. Myers became a member of the Council of the S.P.R. in 1888 ;
but his active interest in the work of our Society dates from its
foundation : and though his professional duties in the earlier years of
its existence, and increasing ill-health in later years, prevented him
from taking a prominent part in our published investigations,
there is hardly any branch of those investigations in Avhich the
aid he has rendered has nob been—in one way or another
—
important. Especially valuable has been his counsel in all matters
in which the lines of our researches have come into contact with the
special sphere of the physician's study. This has occurred in various
ways. Sometimes the actual phenomena presented for investigation
have been alleged cases of healing by methods apparently involving
an action of mind on body beyond what has yet been recognised as
possible by established medical science : such as cases of " faith-
healing "or "mind-cure," and the therapeutic marvels of Lourdes—
•
on which a paper composed by him, in conjunction with his brother,
Mr. F. W. H. Myers, was published in the last number but one of our
Proceedings. Sometimes, again, though the scope of the investigation
has been purely psychological, the question of disease has become
incidentally important, either as an alleged cause of the phenomenon
studied—as in the case of spontaneous hallucination : or as an alleged
dangerous effect to be guarded against, as in the case of hypnotism.
In all such cases Dr. Myers' advice and assistance have been constantly
asked by our investigators and always ungrudgingly given ;
and being
at once fearless and circumspect, in full touch with the opinions and
sentiments of his profession^ and yet singularly free from all professional
Feb., 1894.] Jou/mcd of Society for Psycldcal Research. 197
bias or prejudice, he was excellently fitted for the function of adviser.
Indeed, Ave may say that the main direction and management of the
experimental or other work that has been done in the department of
hypnotism in connection v/ith our Society has—since Edmund Gurney's
death—been in his hands : and it should be added that the labour of
gathering together the books and pamphlets, which render our
" Edmund Gurney Library " probably the best collection in England
for the needs of a student of hypnotism, was almost entirely under-
taken by Dr. Myers. It is, indeed, impossible to recount all the
ways in which his unfailing kindness and generosity, his ready help-
fulness, and his patient industry—so long as industry was permitted
him—have been employed in the service of our work ; but there can
be hardly anyone who has taken an important share in that work who
will not feel how difficult it will be to fill the gap that his loss has
left.
—
Editor.
PROFESSOR HEINRICH HERTZ.
"Hertz, De. Heinrich, was born in 1857, at Hamburg, and is
the son of Senator Dr. Hertz. He studied engineering till 1878, and
then devoted himself to physics under Helmholtz and KirchofF, at
Berlin, where he took the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1880.
He was assistant to Helmholtz till 1883, when he became 'privat-
docent' in the University of Kiel. In 1885 he was made Professor of
Physics in the Technical College at Karlsruhe, and in 1889 succeeded
the late Dr. Clausius in the Chair of Physics at Bonn. In 1889 he
was elected an honorary member of the Manchester Philosophical
Society, and is also a corresponding member of the Royal Academy at
Berlin. Most of his experimental work deals with electricity. To-
wards the end of 1886 he detected a special action of ultra-violet light
upon the electric discharge. In the following year he obtained
evidence that electric induction was propagated through air with a
finite velocity. In the course of 1888 he succeeded in producing
electrical waves and rays in air, which had been predicted long ago by
Maxwell, and which was studied theoretically by Fitzgerald, Heaviside,
Lodge, and others."
The above brief statement of facts, taken from the biographical
portion of the Electrical Directory, pubUshed by the weekly journal
The Electrician, in which an English abstract of Hertz's work first
appeared, does but scant justice to the immense interest excited in the
scientific world by the famous researches of 1888. The importance of
these researches was instantly recognised in England, where they mel;
with a welcome altogether exceeding their reception on the Continent
;
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894.
tor whereas theories of electricity were there ahiiost as numerous as
leading Professors, here there was practically but one, and that Clerk
Maxwell's. Theories of light, indeed, we had in some abundance —
three or four varieties ; and the most recent of all, hardly known out
of the British Isles, not much known, strange to say, north of the
Tweed, though well understood on the shores of the Liffey and well
appreciated on the Mersey—this latest theory of light, also the
outcome of the brilliant genius of Clerk Maxwell, Avas on its trial ;
and keen were the hopes of verifying it, not by mere concord of
experimental results, but by actual production of Radiation in the light
of its indications. The way was clear and the details of difliculty Avere
already disappearing, when a nearly unknown German at the Poly-
technicum of Karlsruhe, after a year's strenuous and magniticently
ordered Avork, begun almost in the dark, and not inspired by Clerk
Maxwells theory at all, but guided by his own experimental instinct
and the theories of his most eminent teacher, A^on Helmholtz, succeeded
to the utmost of our expectations and demonstrated the existence of
electrical radiation, or the propagation of electric action in time,
precisely on the lines deduced in these islands from Clerk MaxAvell's
theory.
For the first time Light was linked to Electricity, and the nature
of both became thereby far better understood than before. They are
now no longer distinct sciences ; the ether has to serve both
functions : the eye is an electrical sense organ.
Had Hertz not lived, the thing would have been done ; but that it
would have been done Avith the same completeness and ability may
well be dou])ted. For though it may be said that Hertz began in the
dark, he did not finish so. As clearly as possible he recognised how
MaxAvell's theory explained and corresponded Avith his every fact, down
to the minutest detail ; and liis interest in thus Avorking out the anti-
cipations of Avhat Avas to him a new theory must have been extreme.
He was not only an experimentalist. Like all the highest modern
physicists, he Avas Avell endoAved Avith mathematical poAver, and Avell
instructed in mathematical methods. Conjoined Avith these Aveapons he
possessed a true physical instinct, as well as ingenuity of device and
manipulative skill. When these things co-exist in an individual, that
individual is a born physicist, of whom much may be expected.
Added to these things. Hertz had been happy in the educative
circumstances of his life and birth, and had long been under the best
influences in Germany— a favourite pupil and assistant of Helmholtz
himself.
In 1887 his great work Ava.s begun ; a few years ago it Avas finished,
and its author Avas called to Bonn to succeed Olauslus as Professor of
Feb., 1894.] Journal of Society for PsycUcd Beseareh.
Physics in that University. Here, number of students and other
such responsibilities doubtless made work more difficult, but many of
his pupils continued his researches, and his experiments have been
repeated and extended in nearly all the physical laboratories of the
world.
Such and so great a man was among our Corresponding Members.
During a visit to England in 1890 to receive a medal from the Royal
Society, he betrayed an interest in psychical matters, and related to the
writer some experiences which had convinced him that there was
matter for investigation in these " occult " regions. He did not intend
to go out of his way to meet phenomena, nor in the slightest degree to
desert his physics for them, but he professed himself ready to investigate
them when called upon, and he became a foreign Member of the
S.P.R.
That we can no longer number him among us is a disappointment
—a bittei- disappointment to his co-workers in Physics—but he was
not strong in body, and on January 1st of the present year he was
called away at the early age of 36. 0- J-
THE COMMITTEE FOR THE SYSTEMATIC INVESTI-
GATION OF HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA.
Since the formation of the above Committee in October, 1893,
eleven meetings have been held at the Rooms of the Society. Up to the
present the Committee have had to regi-et the dearth of "subjects " for
experiment, though they are grateful to two or three members of the
Society who have shown a disposition to help in this respect. Unless
some help is given in securing the presence of persons likely to be of
use as subjects, the Committee are obliged to fall back upon young
men, generally uneducated, who are accustomed to being hypnotised,
and who have to be paid for their time. There are obvious objections
to this plan, and the Committee continue to hope that members of the
Society will bear their needs in mind and refer them to any cases
where opportunity for experiment exists.
With paid subjects the Committee have observed most of the usual
phenomena of hypnotism—insensitiveness, alternating memory, post-
hypnotic hallucinations, and so on ; but most of their time has been
spent in the endeavour to observe the phenomena of thought-trans-
ference. In this quest they have not up to the present met with much
success—in fact, taking " number-guessing,'' to Avhich class of experi-
ments they have mainly attended, the successes have on one occasion
only (when Mr. G. A. S)r.ith was the hypnotiser) been more than a trifle
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894.
in excess of what pure chance could produce. On the occasion referred
to, when the operator and the subject were both in the same room, the
latter rightly guessed six out of eleven mimbers of single digits
successively gazed at by Mr. Smith, and in a second series of
eleven similar trials on the same evening two guesses were correct—
•
thus making a total of eight correct guesses out of twenty-two. This
subject also seemed rather successful in describing other small objects
looked at by Mr. Smith, and it is intended to carry out some further
trials with him if he can be induced to attend with regularity.
Mrs. Pitman-Hooper, who has kindly put herself to a good deal of
trouble, has introduced the case of a young girl who suffers from
frequent epileptic fits —practically daily—and it is hoped that the
hypnotic treatment now commenced may have some beneficial effect.
The Committee, in again appealing to Members and Associates to
render some help if possible, desire to remind those interested (1) that
the assistance of persons who are known to be susceptible to the action
of hypnotism is much desired ; and (2) that persons who are not known
to be susceptible, but who may be willing to attend regularly for syste-
matic experiments in hypnotism and thought-transference, are invited
to write to any member of the Committee, whose names were given
in the Journal for December, 1893, p. 187.
January 10th, 1894.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not rcsjwnsible fur ojyinions exjjressed hy CorrcqMndcids.]
SPIRITISTIC HORSEPLAY.*
To the Editor of the JouKNAL OF THE Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —In the Experiences of Mr. Stainton Moses, included in the current
number of the Proceedings of the S.P.R., spiritistic phenomena are, for
tlie tirst time, put forward as such, having avowedly for their object
the confirmation of Spiritism and nothing else. In this tlie paper differs
from those on the cases of Mrs. Piper, Miss A., and others. Our
duty is thus threefold—first, to reject from consideration such of the
statements themselves as can be shown to be contrary to the first principles
of human reason ; and with regard to the remainder— after stretching to the
utmost our powers of comiolaisant credulity—to consider how far the facts
support the pretensions of Spiritism : and lastly, though only as a subsidiary
question, to decide whether, granthig in any degree those pretensions, the
subject is one tliat is, in itself, a worthy or desirable subject of researcli.
And, first, there are certain propositions which I would urge it to be tlie
duty of all sane persons to reject without parley, as contradicting axiomatic
*Procecdirifj!< of the S.P.M. Part XXV. Spirit TcacUwjs. London, 1894. The
London Spiritualist Alliance.
Feb., 1894.] Journal of Societij for Psychical Research. 201
laws of nature and of thought. Such are, that the less can contain the greater
or that two bodies can occupy the same space at the same tnne, or that
matter can pass through matter. In questions of this character, the veracity
of the witnesses, or their liability to hallucination, are superfluous and
irrelevant considerations. The thing is impossible, and there is an end of it.
If we once surrender our reason in such matters, we are cast like waifs upon
a sea of speculative ignorance where we can be sure of nothing-not even
of our own existence. To a certain extent, this is unavoidable in deahng
with psychical phenomena, because of our ignorance of the fundamental
laws which govern them ; and this ignorance is our prmcipal difliculty lu
investigating them ; but the same cannot be said of the laws of matter
and it is not the way to begin an investigation into subjects we do not
understand by throwing over immutable and impregnable laws m others
with which we are already well acquainted. Yet this is what we must do if
we admit for a moment the possibility of matter passing through matter.
And I am disposed to labour this point somewhat, for two reasons. irst,
thatthe claim to have seen matter pass through matter throws doubt upon
aU evidence coming from the same source ;
and, secondly, that the mora
weakness which could admit of credence in such an impossibdity would itselt
predispose to, and even suggest (in the technical sense), other hallucinations
and delusions . With the knowledge we now possess of the effects of suggestion
and the complexities of personality-a knowledge which it is only fair to say
was not available when Mr. Moses began his seances -it is easy to see that
nothin- more unwise could be attempted than to embark upon experiments
of this kind without keeping a firm grasp upon first principles, and a resole
not to resign the guidance of Reason, but always to keep the reins of
experiment within her grasp. Instead of doing this, however, and boldly
dictating to the unseen agency the conditions under which it was to act, Jli.
Moses seems to have weakly suffered himself to be led, or rather driven
back, over a line of retreat against the promptings of his normal and more
healthy mind. Thus in December, 1872, he writes that the communications
are "generally marked by evidences of intellectual weakness, and that
it is prima facie extremely unlikely that the spirits of the noble, the learned
and the pure should be concerned in the production of physical and
intellectual phenomena which, when not silly, are frequently mischievous,
and when distinctly true are not new, and being new are not true. . .
.
The voice from beyond the grave is uncertain, and when it can be tested
frequently delusive, if not absolutely and mischievously false." Yet, according
to Mr Myers, he came in a few months more to believe completely m the
identity of the communicating intelligences. A still sadder instance of
this decadence is to be found m the gradual surrender of the medium s
lifelonc. convictions on religious subjects, a surrender made with open eyes
and in^defiance of his own clear and even forcible indications of the ' spirit
teachings" as contrary to Scripture and to the fundamental dogmas of the
Christian Faith. I shall, however, return briefly to this part of the subject
later on. It is time to consider the material facts, or alleged facts, on which
the claims to real spiritist agency in this case rest.
With regard to some of these I have already urged that they are not only
^02 journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FiTB., 1894.
impossible, but unthinkable, and therefore unworthy of further consideration.
Yet, even were this not so, there would remain some further objections to
them, which it is as well not to overlook. Thus we are not only told of the
passage of matter through matter, but of objects brought from outside—in
one instance from a distance of half a mile. A " crucitix of blue enamel,
with a handsomely-cliased figure of the Saviour, unknown to all of us," and
"a small heap of seed pearls"* placed before each of the sitters, were
among these objects. Now, either these objects were evolved out of Avhat
Hans Breitmann calls the " Ewigkeit," which is contrary to another axiomatic
law—ex nihilo nihil fit—or they were stolen from some human being outside
tlie "circle," which does not speak highly for the morality of the spirit
world. A more important question arises on this point, a question which has
again and again been asked, but never answered : Why, if objects can thus be
brought from a distance, through walls and locked doors, cannot a bank-note
for £1,000 be withdrawn from the cellars of the Bank of England ? I ask the
question in no spirit of vulgar cupidity, but as proposing a test which would
establish the claims of the s^jirits once for all, and silence the most inveterate
scoffer. For imagine the sensation and excitement that would bo produced.
Bank-notes are all numbered, and this one would be missed almost at once. It
would be advertised for, and the papers would be full of the mysterious loss.
Then would come forward the triumjohant medium and say, " Here is your
note, which the spirits brought out of the Bank safe into the presence of all
the assembled circle." I fear, however, that the spirits will continue to select
their own tests, instead of those which would satisfy other people.
Let us, however, now pass on to consider those statements which, however
difficult of credence, are not absolutely impossible in the nature of things,
and inquire how far, if we grant the facts for argument's sake, we are bound
to accept the spiritistic theory also. No doubt that theory, in some form or
other, is as old as man himself. But, as regards modern Spiritism, I think it
is not difficult to account for its origin thus. The earliest manifestations were
put down by most persons to fraud. But in cases where fraud either could
not be established, or was not admitted by believers, what other agency
remained 1 No natural agency being apparent, the supernatural suggested
itself, and was eagerly accepted by minds disposed to receive it. There was
the more reason for this, in that the scejjtics could produce no argument
against it, except a blank denial of the facts, which the others refused to accept
against the evidence of their own senses. In maintaining the notion of
supernatural causes for unexjjlained phenomena, they did but follow the
example of human nature everywhere. In countries devoid of astronomical
knoAvledge, eclipses are attributed to the action of evil spirits, and in those
where the operations of suggestion and personality are not understood, raps and
automatic writing are similarly accounted for. Then the notion of spiritual
agency, once started, tended to work itself out as a suggestion in future cases,
and subsequent exjjerimenters could not exclude the consciousness of this
hypothesis, whether they fully accejjtcd it or not. From this point of vieAv
*Why "seed "pearls? Why not as easily "ropes of pearls," d la Lothair? Are
we to understand that denizens of the spirit world arc hampered by the laws of
supiily and demand ?
Feb., 189-1.] Journal of Society for Psychieal Research.
the open mind, so desirable in all other investigations, is not here an unmixed
advantage. The passive personality, equally with the active, conscious one,
naturally takes the line of least resistance, and ui tlie absence of any definite
guidance will fall back upon Spiritism as the most rough and ready line to take,
and having taken the part, will act up to it with all the astonishing aptitude
and vraisemblance which it shows in other rules under appropriate suggestion.
The absence, therefore, of any original prepossessions in favour of Spiritism
was no protection for Mr. Moses in default of some definite theory of another
kind which could act suggestively in its own direction. Had he firmly
told " Imperator," or " Mentor," or whatever ridiculous name the spirit"
assumed, that its real name was Jenny Jones and that she was a milkmaid,
it is permissible to suppose that the suggestion would have been acted on,
and that instead of the dreary records of pretentious, commonplace, and
heterodox theology which are found in Spirit Teachings, we should have had
more interesting and certainly more enlivening discussions on curds and whey.
Apart from°the causes I have suggested above as having given rise ro
the spiritist theory, it is remarkable that the many obvious indications
of an originating source within the medium's own organism for the
phenomena we are considering should have been overlooked. It would
be more correct, however, to say that they have been deliberately rejected.
Thus, we read in the Experiences (page 249) that " the phenomena were at
their best when he"—i.e., Moses-'^ was in his best health, and declined or
disappeared altogether when he was ill." " The utterances of other controls
for the most part reflect Mr. Moses' own opinions on other mediums " (page
255). "Illness of one of the sitters will cause the scent to be coarse and
pungent " (page 271). A "harmonious condition " is described as being one
in which "the physique is in most perfect order " (page 274). "The experi-
ments made were attended with very great subsequent prostration" (page
276).
" Several attempts were made to elicit actual melody at various tmies,
but 'the med ium not heiivj of a musical turn of mind, this attempt invariably
failed
"
(page 282. The italics are mine). There are other similar passages, and
the state of°the barometer is also frequently alluded to. Of course. Spiritists
account for these symptoms in their own way, but the facts are none the less
significant. Hints of the influence of suggestion and mental expectancy are
ftlso to be found in such passages as "round the table three persons sittmg
with a hush of expectation and faces (if they could have been seen) of awe-
stricken earnestness " (page 290). Mr. Myers thinks that the general concor-
dance of phenomena only proves that they are not alleged at random. With
deference, it seems to me to prove something much more significant, viz., the
influence of recorded experiences acting suggestively on other minds. Agaui,
I think a point has been missed in connection with the great or historical
names claimed by the alleged spirits. If we regard the communications as
proceeding from the medium's latent consciousness, it is easy to see why
well-known names should turn up rather than such as he never heard of ;
but otherwise it is ditticult to understand why the Dicks, Toms and Harrys
of those days should not have had as easy access to him as anyone else.
It is time, however, to consider the facts vouched for as having happened
at the sittings with Mr. Moses, or at least such of them as are not contrary tu
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894,
axiomatic truth. I do not propose, however, to traverse the whole record of
the " physical phenomena," which is spread over about 100 pages of the Pro-
ceedings, and which consists almost entirely of antics and horseplay, which it
would be an insult to the British schoolboy to call puerile, and which are un-
worthy of a Jack Pudding at a country fair. Not that their value as evidence
is directly affected by their intrinsic inanity, as long as all that is claimed for
them is the demonstration of some hitherto undetected or obscure natural
force ; but when they are asserted to be the work of some high and mighty
spiritual potentates, who adopt this method of bringing before mankind
teachings of vast importance to his present and future welfare— teachings,
moreover, which are to supersede as antiquated, forsooth, the fundamental
ti'uths common to all Christian bodies —the vigour with which one is inclined
to repel such claims is lost in a sense of their overpowering absurdity.
Playing football with the hassocks (page 262), blowing penny whistles (page
316), squirting scent in the faces and eyes of the circle, thumping and banging
the furniture in a way that seemed alarming and was certainly unmannerly
—these are a sample of the harlequinade which, according to Mr. Myers, had
for its "avowed object the promulgation through Mr. Moses of certain
religious and philosophical views." I have heard of sermons in theatres, but
not of their being delivered by the clown. Mr. Moses, by the way, speaks
disparagingly of tlie witch of Endor and her " unholy incantations." Why
any more unholy than his own ? They were at least as far removed from the
infinite silliness of the latter as Hamlet is from Touchstone. And the contrast
is worth enlarging on, because the story of the witch is such as we might expect
to accompany anything so awful as the visit of a spirit from beyond the grave.
The scene, the actors, the occasion, and the message were each worthy of the
rest, and combine to produce a narrative of the most intense tragedy. No
room for wonder is there that at the end of the awful message, culminating
in the pi'ophecy, "To-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me," the
unfortunate monarch "fell straightway his full length upon the earth." Mr.
Moses would have been better advised not to suggest the comparison.
There is another class of evidence, however, Avhich may appear more
forcible than noises and smells ; and that is, visible apparitions. I do not
wish to depreciate the importance of visual evidence, which will rightly be
deemed the strongest of any depending upon sensory impressions ; but it
cannot be considered as conclusive in view^ of the undoubted fact that
- phantasms have been exi^erimentally produced, not only in the presence of
the medium, as in the experiences before us, but even at a distance. And
this, too, in cases when the percipients were in no expectation of anything
abnormal, and were unaAvare of the fact that the experiment was to be tried.*
Lastly, there remains of evidential claims what will doubtless be relied
upon above all
—
i.e. , connnunications from alleged spirits of facts subsequently
verified, although unknown to the medium at the time. Of course the
first objection to these is, that they may have been latent in his unconscious
"
See Journal S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 307, and Phantasms of the Living, "Vol. I.,
pp. 99-110. It is greatly to be desired that in future cases these experiments should
be varied by endeavouring to impress upon the percipient some other image thaii that
of the agent himself. Cf. op. cit , p, 102, case of Lieut. N,
Feb., 1894.] Joiimal of Society for Psychical Research. 205
memory ; and this objection would in the nature of things be extremely
hard to set aside. But I do not rely upon it alone. Let it be granted that
veridical information is imparted upon matters which the medium never
previously heard of. Then I submit the following propositions :
—
1st. Everything which a disembodied spirit can do (being, so to speak,
only half a man), a living man with the full powers of both mind and body
can do a fortiori. Even if this proposition be denied, it is impossible to
prove the converse, and probability, at least, is on my side.
^
2nd. Every alleged fact is capable of verification or it is not. If it ia
not, then cadit quedio ; but if it is, the fact must be on record somewhere,
either in documentary or printed shape, or in the mind of some living
person. If so recorded, it is impossible to show that it has not been
clairvoyantly or telepathically perceived.
I have thus endeavoured to deal with the various classes of facts vouclied
for in the account before us. With classes only ;
for to have criticised each
case singly would have required a paper of the same portentous length as
the Ejiperiences themselves. But I am unaware of any alleged fact
whicli does not fall within one or other of these classes. To sum up : I
wish to reject as impossible and unthinkable the claim that matter can
pass through matter. This claim goes utterly beyond what we are
accustomed to call "the supernormal," because it involves contradictions
of axiomatic, mathematical truth, and if I thought I saw such a thing happen
with my own eyes, I should refuse to believe it all the same.* With regard
to the remainder of the testimony, I have urged that, while there is nothing
irreconcilable with the facts being treated as manifestations of suggestion,
telepathy, or telekinesis, (although admittedly of an extreme and
remarkable type), there is much, on the other hand, to point to their having
their origin and development within the organism of the medium. It will
be surprising, however, if many other readers do not take the shorter way
of disbelieving the records altogether.
The last head of my subject is concerned with the "teachings" which
it was the declared object of the phenomena to enforce. As a mere
point of evidence it is impossible to disregard these. For when extra-
ordinary facts are alleged to have for their purpose the support of certain
doo-mas, it is distinctly germane to the question to inquire whether the
dogmas are of such a nature, either as regards their importance, their novelty,
or ''their moral value, as to justify and account for their introduction in
* Mr. Myers speaks of a " power of dis-aggregating matter and re-aggregating it " ;
but I fail to see how dis-aggregated matter could pass through a brick wall any more
than matter in the mass. Other writers, more definitely, but with less caution, have
called the process " dematerialisation." It is sufficient to point out that dematerialised
matter is a contradiction in terms. These writers, however, remind one of a
certain Volunteer colonel, in the early days of the movement, who was
more conversant with double-entry than with double columns, and who,
wishing to manceuvre his regiment out of a field through an ordinary gateway, could
find no°better command for the purpose than •' Fall out for five minutes and fall in
again on the other side of the gate " ! Something analogous to this, I suppose, is what
happens to matter in its passage through matter. It is really impossible to treat such
ideas serio'jsly,
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894.
such .1 startling fashion. The two sides of the question thus to a certain
extent react on one another. Tlie startling facts are out of liarmony with
the banality of the dogmas based upon them, and tlie serious teaching is
discredited by the grotesque phenomena. In the one case the mountain
brings forth a mouse ; in the other, the mouse is made to bear the Aveight
of the mountain. For of the religious seriousness of the TeacJiings there
can be no question, whatever may be thought of their intellectual calibre.
This is not the place to discuss theological questions ; but as the Teachings
are concerned almost wholly with theology, and the conduct of man in refer-
ence thereto, it is impossible, in dealing with thom, to avoid the subject.
And since, without the supernatural origin which they claim, they would
be obviously unworthy of attention, we must be content to regard them, for
the nonce, as possessing it, in order to see where such teachings are likely
to lead those who follow them. It will be seen, then, by anyone who has
the patience to examine the work, that it shows a gradual advance from
gently insinuated scepticism of a rationalistic order to open and blatant
denial of the cardinal truths of Christianity. As the spirits themselves are
made to say, " we have loosened the ropes one by one gradually and gently,"
xintil at length they could venture to deny the Divinity of Christ,
the vicarious Atonement, and the authority of Holy Scripture, and to pour
contempt upon its authors, from Moses to Paul. No wonder that these
same Scriptures contain express warnings against " giving heed to seducing
spirits and doctrines of demons," or that they denounce, in scathing language,
all attempts to have communications with them.* Let there be no mistake,
then, on this point—that those who follow such teachings as these can no
longer profess Christianity, or consider themselves Christians in any valid
sense. I have before remarked on the unhappy facility with which Mr.
Moses suii'ered himself to be driven from his orthodox mo(3ring.s. Not that
he did not meet the "teachings " with arguments that will seem, I think,
cogent and logical to most minds. But he seems to have surrendered, not
to superior reasoning, but to simple dogmatic assertions whose only weight
was in the source from which they claimed, and he believed them, to come.
On this ground alone, Mr. Moses appears to have accepted a mass of
sermonising dogma, and of shallow infidelity, such as used to be thought
good enough for shopboys and loafers on Sunday afternoons at Clerkenwell
Green.
The subject is not worth pursuing further. It is more satisfactory to note
that no very noticeable result has followed the introduction of this new revela-
tion which was to supersede and eclipse the ancient faith. Christianity, which
survived the persecutions of Rome and the assaults of Voltaire, has not
succumbed to Mr. Moses and " Imperator." Nor, it may be safely said, will
"If ever there was "a woman that hath a familiar spirit," Mrs. Piper, with her
Doctor Phinuit, is one. If Mr, Moses and others hke him are not " consulters with
spirits
" and "necromancers," there is no meaning in words. That is, of course, on
the supposition that the powers they profess are real, and are due to spirits from
beyond the grave. Yet it is of such that the Bible says :
" Whosoever doeth these
things is an abomination unto the Lord."—2)fu«, xviii. 12. See also Gal. i. 8, 9»
Words could hardly be stronger.
Feb., 1893.] Journal of Society for Psycliical Research. 207
such agencies be more successful in the future than in the past. Jesus I know,
and Paul I know ; but who are these % The faith that has inspired apostles,
sustained martyrs, and animated heroes, that has produced in the present
century (to go no further back) characters who will remain as a light in the
world for generations to come, is not to be set aside at the bidding
of "spirits " that squeak and gibber in the drawing-room of a respectable
clergyman, and " confirm their word with signs following "—to wit, tinkling
handbells, penny whistles, and tables that stand on one leg.
Thomas Baekworth.
ITALIAN TRANSLATION WANTED.
If any Member or Associate is willing, in the interests of the
Society, to undertake the translation of some Italian manuscript, the
Editor will be very glad if he or she will communicate with him.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
[Continued from the December Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will he gratefully received.
B L 171 AtiPn Visual.—Mr. J. R. S. when a boy saw an old school-
fellow, B. M., standing in his bedroom. They had agreed some years
previously that whichever of them died first should appear to the other.
The apparition was seen by gaslight. B. M. died at the time, Mr. b. not
knowing that he was ill. Date about 1880 ;
recorded m 1889.
B L 172 Repeated apparitions of the same person.—Mr. Cj. A. IV. is
seen twice by his wife—on both occasions out of doors in the evening, once
"a year &«o" and once since—(she has had other hallucinations of a similar
kind) ; once by his mother-in-law in a room, in November, 1888 ;
once by
Mrs. B., 6 or 7 years ago ;
and once by another lady (no details given).
Recorded March, 1889. . . _ . , , r^<, i
•
B L 173 Through American Branch.—(1) Dr. Adele Gleason, having
arranged with Mrs. E. A. Conner that she should try to appear to her,
makel many unsuccessful attempts. One evening Mrs. Conner has a
momentary mind's-eye vision of her (recognition doubtful) m a dress similar
to one Miss Gleason was thinking of at the time. (2) Dr Holbrook has
impression of Miss G.'s presence, with some coincidence. {6) Miss G. is
wakened by feeling of presence and finds that a certain nurse had been in
difficulties and wishing for her help at the time. Dates about 188o.
Recorded 1889. . •
c
B L 174. Auditory.—Mrs. Seeley hears a voice saying the name ot a
friend of hers a short time before the friend in question calls on her un-
expectedly. Date : November 10th, 1891. Recorded November 19th,
^^^B L 175. Dream. Through Lady Rayleigh.—Miss Bernard dreamt that
a friend. Miss A. B., of whom she had not seen or heard anything for some
time wrote to her, giving a detailed account of her engagement to be
married. She informed Miss A. B. of her dream, and learnt from her that
almost all the details in it were correct, ^o one had known of the engage-
ment, except Miss A. B.'s sister. The dream occurred " some years ago ;
recorded in December, 1890.
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1894.
CO
as
00
CO
§
g
O
o
g
1
COOOOOO OOOt-INC5 0C<500050(MO
1-1 i-H
MO-*C2M o O O tr- CO Tj< o i-H O lO T-H "O TtH
i-H i-H I—I tH t-H rH 1—
I
O 1-H tH CO ^ coco t^TP o
O O CO o o o
i-H
t - iH O lO t-
Ci CO (M (M lO CO M
iO O
H
o
O
.CO 6
yT
I.S
^ bo CD
S c s
-CO c (D
O .
ho ho
S Oj CD
0)
: : : : r : : : : : : : "o" : — — °
it a a j3
: : : : 5 : : : : : n : : : : o
: : : cs s . : : : :.S : : : :Ph .
'-'cc gpq S a g S
... 7?Oc3r-lg.....-^....-U»ln
&D a; . n-^ n o-ri ••S-.S- o : : :
-^^^
^ boM^ § g 8 :^Ph o'§ : :
is g'.S o g S g-F^|^^2.ai l^f^ g.s
--g-ll^joSls^ffl^aa s-'Sf.Bs
S ^ > g l^g^ I'-a ^ g g J . "Ss S S i .
t-l O
rH
CO lO
O
O
T-H CO
I-H
CI
C CO o <=
I-H rH
00 CO CO
t-rH 05
IM rH
o o
o o rH — t-
rH
O <M O X rH
OCO O CO CO
O -t< t-. (M
CO -i< rH
-i^ >~>
g B S
g s-s
i^ 2 S
CI
c3
ceo
:co 2
CO .2
O
o
I
. CO
,coir
;h .iJ
.. O c3
S S o
•2 J?
3
J.
gfMO»
J „
=3 M i.^
.2 S 2 S
^ aj
c3
02
^ '-g^Sg
rH — -tJ IM
eg r1 CC CC
ni S fli ell i-i C
<CO
O IH O O 5* <B
cS
pq
C5.
c3
ft""
1-1
O
W
^'
o
c3
la
rH
co__
i-h'
e3
73 cS
- C!
-I? 0)
o a
OJ CI
2
o
CI f-"
aQ-
a
c5
>
O
o3
CO
rH
8
>
No. CVIII.-VoL. VI. Mar., 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
The Subliminal Cousoionsneaa at work diiving the Inilueiice of an Anresthetic
Cases received by the Literavy Committee
Correspondence :
—
Eeplies to Mr. Barkworth
On the Objectivity of Apparitions
Edmund Gurney Library Fund
THE SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS AT WORK DURING
THE INFLUENCE OF AN ANESTHETIC.
(1) On November 3i'd, 1893, a middle-aged woman was operated
on for a bony tumour of the upper jaw. She was of course under an
antesthetic. When she awoke, after completion of the operation, she
said she had no recollection v>'hatever of what had occurred. When I
called on her on November 7 th, she said she had had severe neuralgia
during the night in the situation of the operation. During the con-
tinuance of this pain, and while half awake and half asleep, she
thought she could follow each step of the operation of November 3rd.
She described the cutting and slipping of the steel chisel, the blows of
the mallet, and scraping back of the gum—in fact, it seemed to her
that she tmderwent the whole operation again.
(2) A lady to whom I told the above said she once took " gas " for
a tooth extraction. This was quite successful, for she " felt nothing."
But on an occasion subsequent to this she had a return of toothache
—
some time in the night. She declared that she could then feel all the
symptoms of becoming unconscious while inhaling the gas ; then came
the digging of the forceps to get a grip on the tooth, the wrench, and
awful pain—every detail was " felt " now, although her waking
consciousness had been quite unaware of any pain during the actual
extraction.
(3) I have many times noted that people while anresthetised, who
do not feel pain in the ordinary sense, and who on coming to themselves
declare that they did feel no pain during the operation, have struggled,
groaned, spoken, or given some other evidence that some stratum of
PAGE
209
. 210
215
223
224
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mae., 1894.
their consciousness was awake during the antesthesia, and was being
impressed by the pain of the operation.
The above appears to show that the subliminal consciousness does
take note of what is going on, while the work-a-day self is oblivious to
all external stimuli when under the influence of an anajsthetic ;
and
that the memory of this subliminal self may be brought to the surface by
some appropriate stimulus, such as the neuralgia, which, we may note,
occurred between sleeping and waking—that is, at a time when the
subliminal is more active than the supraliminal stratum of our con-
cious personality.
Analogous to the foregoing is the fact familiar in hypnotism,
where it is often possible to recal a memory in the subject after awakeu-
ino- of what has been done and said during his hypnosis.
Mle to Case /.—The patient did not see the operator's instruments
at all, nor was she told after the operation how it was done, but •
merely that the tumour had been cut away entirely and successfully.
No one was present at the operation except the patient, operator, and
myself. The operation was described by the patient as accurately as a
non-medical person was likely to do. It may be thought that she was
enabled to describe the operation by her vivid imagination ;
but under
the circumstances I should regard this " vivid imagination " as only
another name for her subliminal memory.
With regard to Case II., as I was not present during the extraction
of the teeth, I know none of the details.
In each of these two cases I was of course careful not to suggest to
the patient the details of the operation—such as " Did you feel this or
that 1
"
I merely asked them twice over to tell me what they felt.
Both the patients were thoroughly under the influence of the
ana?sthetic—chloroform in the first case, and nitrous oxide gas in
the second.
C. Theodore Greex,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. London.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. Dream.
From Mr. John B. Haggard, H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Novemhcr 8th, 1893.
On January 1st, 1886, I was appointed Her Majesty's Consul for Mada-
gascar, to reside at Tamatave, the town at that time being in a disturbed
state and occupied by the French.
My wife was anxious to accompany me, but, as she was expecting her
confmement, it was decided she should go to the French Island of Reunion
Mm, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 211
(Bourbon) for the event, and until a residence could be prepared in Tamatave,
fit for a woman to live in. Consequently, at about the same time, she sailed
from England for Reunion, and I sailed for Tamatave, where I was fortunate
enough to secure a missionary's house as a temporary Consulate.
Upon December 12th, 188G, my wife was confined at HellBourg (in the
commune of Salazie), in Reunion, but I heard nothing of the birth in Mada-
gascar for over a month afterwards.
I spent my Christmas Day alone at Tamatave, but on the night of
Christmas Eve (December 24th, 188G) I dreamt a dream respecting my wife
and then woke up. On the following morning (Christmas Day), in a letter to
my wife at Reunion, I wrote a correct account of this dream. By the way.
Reunion is about 600 miles from Tamatave.
What I dreamt proved afterwards, to my great surprise, to be correct in
every particular. It must bo borne in mind, however, that at that time I
knew nothing of the birth of my child having taken place—indeed, I was not
certain as to when the event was expected.
I dreamt that I received several letters from Her Majesty's Consul in
Reunion urging mo to come over at once to see my wife, who was dangerously
ill ; that I went, and was ushered up some stairs to her by the Consul's
wife, when I found my wife very ill indeed in bed.
I then awoke, and, as I have already said, the following morning wrote,
half jokingly and merely for something to say, the whole matter to my wife,
never thinking for a moment there was likely to be any truth in the
dream.
A few weeks later, however, I did receive several letters from the Consul
at Reunion, all arriving almost together, though sent to Tamatave by various
vessels (sailing and steam), begging me to come over at once, as my wife had
been taken dangerously ill on the night of December 24th, with complica-
tions after childbirth. I sailed by the first vessel, and I am happy to say found
my wife recovered ; but it is singular that the room in which she had lain
was at the top of the stairs I had seen in m}' dream, and the position of the
bed was the same. Further, hers was the only house in the whole of Salazie
that had any stairs at all —every other house there being (as is the custom in
those parts) built on one floor. The wife of the Consul at Reunion had
most kindly attended my wife in her illness on this particular night
—
December 24th, 188G.
I regret to say that the letter I wrote to my wife from Tamatave on
December 25th is lost. It has eitlier lieen torn up, or accidentally destroyed
in the hurricane that wrecked the new Consulate in 1888 ; but my wife can
corroborate this statement,
-loHN E. Haggard,
H.M. Consul.
Mrs. Haggard writes :
—
On December 12th, 1886, my eldest child was born at Hell-Bourg, in the
Commune of Salazie, Island of Reunion. My husband was then Consul for
Madagascar, residing at Tamatave. He had been over to Reunion to see me
about a month previously, when I was staying with the English Consul for
the Island and his wife ; but he had never seen the house which I subse-
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mah,1894.
quently rented for myself during ray confinement. After tliat event I was
quite well till December 24tli, when I was taken suddenly ill. The Consul
wrote news of me to my husband, but I did not at the time know what he
said.
The Frijnch were just then evacuating Tamatave, which, owing to the
confusion of transports coming and going, greatly added to the usual dislo-
cation of the mails between Tamatave and Reunion. About a month, how-
ever, after my illness, when I was recovering, I received—after a long
interval of silence—a letter from my husband, dated December 25th, telling
mo that he had not up till then heard of the birth of my child, but had had
a strange and vivid dream about me. On December 24th he invited two or
three British subjects to dinner, which ended quite early, he going to bed
about ten. He then dreamed that I had had a son (it was really a
daughter), and that I had been quite well until that particular evening,
when I was suddenly taken ill. Thus far he dreamed that his information
was derived from a letter from the Consul in Reunion. He then further
dreamed that he came over to see me, and Avas taken to ray house by the
Consul's wife, who showed him the way upstairs to my room, where ho found
me better, and here the dream ended.
The strangest part of the matter—setting aside the exact coincidence of
dates with events, even the hour being the same—was the fact of the stairs
in my house. Like most places subject to landslips and earthquakes, Hell-
Bourg consisted entirely of one-floored buildings. With the exception of
the hospital, I believe my house was the only one in the village with a
staircase in it ; and when he had last seen me my husband did not know I
was going to take a house at all, my plan then being to go down to the coast
for my confinement. He had, however, been informed by letter that I
intended to take a house and remain, but the house itself he did not know.
Agnes M, Haggard.
British Consulate, Trieste, November 9th, 1893,
L. Impression.
From Mrs. Walker, 319, Hagley-road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
The account was enclosed in a letter dated November 15th, 1893,
bat Mrs. Walker tells us that it was written some time earlier.
On September 10th, 1892, 1 was walking by myself along a road near our
home, hastening to join my husband, to look over a new house which wo
thought might suit us. My mind was completely absorbed in mental
measurements and arrangement of rooms—weighing questions of rent,
expenses, and sleeping accommodation, &c., &c., so that I scarcely noticed
anything by the way. Suddenly the whole train of thought vanislied from
my mind, and was replaced by a mental picture of a little boy about 12,
whom formerly I used occasionally to notice about in our parish at various
meetings, but whom I [had] not seen for more than a year, and certainly (as
far as I could remember) had never thought of, or inquired about, since. I
did not know him well, but had merely spoken to him once or twice, as one
^i&r,., 1894.] JuLu'nal of Society for Psychiccd Research. 213
amongst hundreds of our school children, though he had so far impressed me
that I should have described him as a rather original little fellow, and better
educated than most.
However, busy and preoccupied as I was that morning, Joey Fisher
suddenly, tvitliont tJie slightest cause or outside suggestion, obtruded himself
upon my mind, so that I began to wonder what had become of the lad, as I
had neither seen nor heard anything of him for about a year. His face
seemed to rise up before me, and the thought of him occupied my mind for
a minute or two. I was then passing along a road separated by a high hedge
from the Rotton Park Reservoir, and can remember the very place where I
began to think (jf the boy, and where, on coming in sight of the turn in the
road that led to the new house, my thoughts seemed to jump back to the
absorbing subject of interest with regard to the decision we had to make at
once about the house. I thought no more about it until, early in the even-
ing, a parcel containing a large pike was brought in to mo frum Joey
Fisher. I was still more surprised when, coming back from a parish
meeting later the same evening, I happened to meet the boy in the street,
and learned that he had caught the pike himself that day in our Reservoir,
ajid had been standing fishing down below the road at the exact time I had
passed (but quite out of sight of the road). I asked, " What made him think
of sending it to me 1 " He replied, " I don't know ; it seemed to come into
my mind all at once, '
I wonder if Mrs. Walker would like this fish V So I
asked at home if I might take it you, and went up with it in the evening."
Afterwards I thought it, at any rate, such a curious coincidence that I
asked the boy to write it down, which he did, and I enclose his short
account.
I may add that I had never imagined in any way either that he could fish
or would be likely to be at the Reservoir. In fact, the boy had scarcely ever
entered into my consciousness, until he suddenly that morning seemed
to spring up before my mental vision, displacing an absorbing train of
thought, just ichcH; unlniovjn to each other, we were very near together.
Jessie E. Walker.
P. S.—You will notice, the boy did not, apparently, think of sending the
fish to me until he returned to the same spot in the afternoon ; so, although
lie had come into mij mind when passing (unseen) in the morning, it was not
for some hours later that I seem to have occurred to him.
The account enclosed by Mrs. Fisher is as follows :—
I was fishing for pike at the Reservoir, Edgbaston, on Saturday, September
10th. I caught one in the morning and before going home to dinner I threw
in several lines, and when I returned in the afternoon I stood for a time on
the feeder bridge, watching the smaller fish, when I noticed an unusual fiutter
in the water just about the spot where in the morning I had put in the lines ;
I got my drag and was very surprised to find I had caught another pike. I
was very pleased and wondered what I sliould do with it, and suddenly I
thought, how would Mrs. Walker like it. When I got home my sister made it
into a parcel and I took it to Mrs. Walker in the evening ; the same night
I hfippened to meet Mrs. Walker in the Crescent ; she said she was very
214 Journal of Society for Pnychical Research. [Mar., 1S94.
pleased with it and thanked me [and said] how singular it was that at the
very time I was thinking what to do with the inke, she was the other side of
the Reservoir thinking of mo, and wondering where I was, as she had not
seen me for so long.
J. A. FiSHEE.
Berea, Gillott-road.
ilfarc7(,18i//, 1893.
CORPvESPONDENCE.
{The Editor is not vespondhUfor opinions cxprnticd hy Correspondents.']
I have received a considerable number of communications in reply
to Mr. Barkworth's letter published in the last number of the
Journal, and headed—by Mr. Barkworth—" Spiritistic Horseplay."
I have not been able to print in their entirety more than three of
these communications ; because it seems to me generally undesirable
that the replies to a single letter, however interesting and important,
should occupy a very much larger portion of our necessarily limited
space than the original letter occupied. But there is one letter which
I have not inserted to which I feel some reply to be due from myself
rather than from Mr. Barkworth ; as the writer asks, in some indigna-
tion, "why" Mr. Barkworth's "letter has been inserted. Is the Society
for Psychical Research a scientific body formed for the purpose of in-
vestigating psychical subjects, or is it a religious body, pledged to
uphold " certain dogmas ? . . . "Of course any person belonging
to the Society is at perfect liberty to hold what religious views he
pleases. I maintain, however, that he should not be at liberty to bring
them forward"—in ih% Journal of the S.P.R.—" as an argument for
the truth or falsehood of any matter under discussion." I have quoted
this protest, because I think that there is some justification for it, so
far as it is directed against myself rather than Mr. Barkworth. I
think that the arguments put forward by Mr. Barkworth in his
remarks on " Spirit Teachings " are such as it was quite legitimate to
present for the consideration of those members of our Society who are
orthodox Christians : although I agree with more than one of my
correspondents in thinking that his own position is open to attack
from an orthodox standpoint. But, on consideration, I admit that,
considering the undenominational basis of our Society and its avowed
aims, the theological controversy to which such remarks as Mr. Bark-
worth's inevitably lead should be rigidly excluded from the columns of
this Journal : and I hope to maintain such an exclusion in future.
Mae., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 215
A REPLY TO MR. BARKWORTH.
To the Edlloy of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—It is satisfactory that Mr. Barkwortli should so energetically voice
the probably wide-spread feeling against the phenomena said to have occurred
in the presence of Mr. Staiiiton Moses. I am a little surprised at the con-
tempt he is able to pour on the contents of the " automatic writings," since,
perhaps because I know nothing of Theology, I myself thought them rather
unexpectedly interesting ;
certainly more interesting than a "discussion upon
curds and whey," which Mr. Barkworth would prefer in their stead. I am
aware, however, that it is useless to argue concerning matters of taste, and I
am fully disposed to admit the probability of Mr. Barkworth's contention
that if Mr. Moses had adopted the procedure of ridiculing the communications,
and had persisted in attributing them to a milkmaid, Miss Jones, then very
likely the writings would soon have attained the desired level.
This, however, might be expected on ojii/ hypothesis, and would therefore
prove nothing ;
moreover, I am rather glad that Mr. Moses did not adopt
this dogmatic procedure, because it would have been unscientific, and,
therefore, I venture to think, in this connection unwise.
An investigator who assumes to dictate to his phenomena is in rather a
curious position ; it might even be said that he was analogous to a person,
sceptical as to, say, the Atlantic Telegraph, who, being taken to Valentia and
shown a spot of light dancing aimlessly about, should at once frame the
hypotheses—(rt) that the spot only danced because the attendant shook it
(6) that the communications from the ocean, if real, were of the most trivial
and contemptible order (which in this case would indeed be painfully true) ;
and on then being shown a cable leading to the sea, were peremptorily to
decline to investigate further unless permitted to chop the cable with a
hatchet as a preliminary step.
Mr. Moses, howevcr,did none of these things, but allowed himself to be the
almost pavssivo recipient of whatever phenomena might either objectively or
subjectively occur. For this passivity the S. P. E. should be grateful to him ;
but further than that I do not presume to question the dicta of Mr.
Barkworth concerning the theological and other high matters criticised by
him.
The only points upon which I feel at liberty authoritatively to disagree
with Mr. BarkAVorth are where in the course of his remarks he touches
occasionally upon ordinary physics. He says that it is less than sane to
countenance the possibility of such contradictions of the laws of nature and
of thought as the following :
—
(1.) That the less can contain the greater.
(2.) That two bodies can occupy the same space at the same time.
(3.) That matter can pass through matter.
I am not quite sure what he refers to as a pretended instance of the less
containing the greater, nor what he quite definitely means by its strenuous
denial. In a sense it may be said that a great volume of gas is con-
densed in a few grains of gunpowder, and that until after the explosion the
less contained the greater.
These glib phrases are unsafe weapons to use as arguments against asserted
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ma-k., iso^-
facts. Either the asserted occurrence is a fact or it is not ;
the mere
opposition of a phrase is ineflective.
A somewhat similar objection applies to the statement that two bodies
cannot occupy the sam.e space. The familiar instance of sugar dissolving
in tea may be cited in opposition to the phrase, and the precise occurrence
which Mr. Barkworth wishes to discountenance by the so-called axiom
must be separately treated and judged on its merits ;
it cannot be denied on
the ground of vague and popular generalities.
Thirdly, what Mr. Barkworth regards as specially important, "matter
cannot pass through matter" : evidence is superfluous and irrelevant, "the
thing is impossible, and there is an end of it."
Now, whether it be surprising or not, it is nevertheless a fact that gases
can permeate solid matter, for instance, a slab of hot iron ;
they can enter at
one face and exude from the other, in large quantity and at a considerable
pace. And in the processes of osmosis it is familiar to chemists that some
kinds of matter readily penetrate animal membranes, while other kinds do
not. Even the common process of tiltering may be regarded as a passage of
matter through matter.
I presume, therefore, that what Mr. Barkworth intends to assort is that
Bolids do not pass through solids. Even that is of doubtful generality, for
a metal wire can pass through a solid block of ice leaving the ice just as intact
as it was before. And in general, before such a statement can have any useful
meaning, Ave must define what we mean by "solid," and what we mean by
"through." As before, Mr. Barkworth is attempting to encounter a
possible fact with a well-sounding phrase ; and the contest is unequal.
It is no doubt contrary to the accepted facts of physics that a solid
work of art, such as, say, a crucifix of blue enamel, should be passed
through the walls of a permanently closed box without detriment, and I am
not yet aware of proof that such an event has happened, otherwise than
as it "happens " on conjurers' platforms ; but new properties of matter are
always interesting, if they can be well substantiated, and what the ultimately
possible power of tlie human mind over matter may be, we cannot pretend
to know except on experimental evidence.
The atoms of a solid are very far from being in contact, and dogmatic
assertions as to impossil^ility of percolation are rash. Besides, even if known
molecular forces rendered it unlikely, the issue is not linally decided. Experi-
mental evidence has given us a knowledge of three dimensions : it may con-
ceivably furnish us with some indications of four. The assertion that if such a
thing as a crucifix were amenable to mental or spiritual influence, therefore
much more important and hiteresting forms of matter, such as bank-notes,
could be equally well dealt with, does not strike me as forcible, because I can
conceive the evidence to bo quite as bad for one class of objects as for the
other.
It is, however, Very likely true (of this I am no j
udge) that if a £1,000 bank-
note could by any contrivance be thus passed through solid material, say,
through the keyhole of a bank, the fact would create a profound sensation
and be hailed by every newspaper as crucial and conclusive ;
but I would
Bucrgest that the glamour attaching to sacred possessions such as these might
Mae., 1804.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 217
have an undue mfluence and might even succeed in convincing the public
mind prematurely or even falsely ; it would he wiser to maintain that the mere
fact of the sacredness of an object ought not to be allowed to dispense with
the need for evidence concerning it quite as rigorous as would be desirable
for objects of a more intrinsically worthless kind.
Similarly, when seed-pearls or playing cards are said to be produced
de novo, the complaint that they are not a more full-grown and valuable
variety does not strike me as a forcible destructive argument. Tracing them
to a previous existence in somebody's pocket or carpet bag would be a much
more deadly form of retort.
And the assertion that to suppose they can have been evolved out of the
"Ewigkeit" is contrary to another "axiomatic law," or 'A^ell-sounding
phrase—viz., "£'xni/ii^o}u7iiJyii," tends rather to prove too much; because, if
true, it would be fatal to the existence of such pearls under any conditions
whatever.
The unfortunate character of Mr. Barkworth's physical objections deters
me, I confess, from attaching as much weight as I should like to his theo-
logical arguments and his evident intuitions as to how these things really
would occur if they were genuine.
My scepticism with regard to these reported occurrences would lead me
to sift the evidence for them very closely and critically if ever they occur
within my ken. They have not, as yet, but if ever they do I trust it will not
occur to me to brandish shorthand dogmatic statements as to what is and is
not possible, and refuse to listen to evidence for things, however unusual,
which I have no sound a priori right to deny.
Mr. Barkworth's expressions of opinion will, I feel sure, be shared and
sympathised with by a multitude of estimable persons- some of whom I
know and highly regard—and, as I said at the beginning, I am glad he is
giving utterance to these highly natural and emotional objections. I reply
to him only because, intermixed with higher criticism, he has stumbled over
a few physical platitudes in a manner which to tlie average man may sound
very commonsensible, but to a physicist is not satisfactory.
I hope that the opposition to these strange assertions will yet take a more
rigorous and formidable shape, so that both sides of the case may be fairly
put before us before any even temporary decision is expected.
Oliver J. Lodge.
Another correspondent, Mr. Westlakc, travels over somewhat tlie
same ground as Professor Lodge. I am unable to insert his letter m
full, but give some extracts from it.
•
Can it be necessary to repeat that the S. P. R. in printing Mr. Moses'
Experiences is in no sense committed to, or to be understood as supporting,
his interpretation of them ? From its outset the Society has published
experiences from persons holding every shade of philosophical and religious
opinion, the pertinent expression of which has always been allowed both as
a matter of courtesy and as lending a personal interest, but which is no
concern of the Society, whose sphere is limited to the consideration of the
alleged facts. . . .
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mar ,
1894.
I would protest against Mr. Barkworth's use of the word " impossible,"
which should be restricted to logic and mathematics. In physics it is inad-
missible, in any other than a colloquial sense, since it assumes a complete grasp
of the particular problem, that is, of the whole of nature. We can only speak
of " improbability," the degree of which varies for every person according to
his experience and knowledge of natural laws.
I also submit that it is inadmissible to make " thinkableness " a criterion
of fact, since this is to limit nature to our powers of imagination. Can, for
example, Mr. Barkworth, or anyone else, form the slightest idea of the means
by which the influence of gravity is propagated, and with a velocity, as
Laplace has shown, at least hfty million times greater than that of light?
No hypothesis has yet been elaborated by physicists which is consonant even
with the conservation of energy. . . .
Coming now to Mr. Barkworth's instances, it is, he says, "contradictory
to the axiomatic laws of nature and of thouglit that two bodies can occupy
the same space at the same time." Against this may be set the following of
Clerk Maxwell :—"That two bodies cannot co-exist in the same place is a
vulgar opinion deduced from our experience of the behaviour of bodies of
sensible size, but we have no experimental evidence that two atoms may not
sometimes coincide. In water, for instance, we have no experimental
evidence that the molecule of oxygen is not in the very same place with the
two molecules of hydrogen." (Enc. Biit., article "Atom.")
The "passage of matter through matter," so far from being impossible,
occurs habitually in all the states of matter, excepting in the particular case
of a solid passing through a solid. The non-occurrence of the latter rests
simply on experience. And as it is quite legitimate to assume, as is done
by physicists in the case of Le Sage's theory, that the atoms of solids may be
as relatively remote as are the planets of the solar system, the problem of
passing one system through another witliout permanently distorting either,
i.e., without a rupture of elasticity, is not i^rinui facie unthinkable. . . .
Such an improbable hypothesis, however, as the passage of one solid
through another seems quite uncalled for by the bulk of the alleged
phenomena. . . . The same power which transports the objects could,
for anything we know, as readily introduce them by unfastening a window
or a door.
Respecting Mr. Barkworth's proposition that a living man can probably
do everything that a disembodied spirit can, it seems to me that we do not
know enough to say on which side lyrohahility inclines, and that therefore the
age-long belief in the extended powers of disembodied spirit is quite as likely
to be true as any other. . . .
As to his second proposition, the possible proofs of post-m'>rtem survival
are not necessarily confined to the verification of persistent memories ;
per-
sistence of mental faculties may be even more valuable. The alleged Sir
Roger Tichborne was expected to show some knowledge of French, and the
same would be looked for from the deceased Sir Roger. With accomplished
decedents a high degree of probability might conceivably be reached, which
in some special cases might almost amount to demonstration. Let us
suppose a control purporting to be Dolly Pentraeth or some such Cornish-
Mak., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 219
ypcaking ijerson, thu last of whom died a century ago, and that a conversa-
tion is carried on, consisting of questions to which the control replies in the
alleged language, interpreting herself in English, and that the stenographed
record proves to be genuine Cornish. The alternatives are either a Cornish-
speaking decedent or some incarnate who has learnt subliminally to speak
Cornisli from its recorded fragments. The latter, with all respect to the
unconscious self, we might think improbable. The stenographed record might
even decide the point by internal evidence, by either coinciding with the
limits of the literary records or by passing beyond them with probability in
the sense of agreeing with Celtic roots. I suggest the case in some detail
because communications in dead unstudied languages have been alleged,
and if sought for by spiritists up and down in the world might result ni
fairly crucial instances. ...
As to the desirability of the S. P. R. publishing these things the following
remarks of De Morgan's are applicable:—"! have said that the deluded
spirit-rappers are on the right track : they have the spirit and melhud of the
grand time when those paths were cut through the uncleared forest in which
it is now the daily routine to walk. What was that spirit It was the spirit
of universal examination, wholly unchecked by the fear of being detected ni
the investigation of nonsense. Thus it was when the Royal Society was
founded Matters are now entirely changed. The great
scientific bodies are far too well established to risk themselves. The
pasturers of flocks and herds and the hunters of wild beasts arc two very
different bodies, with very different policies." {Frum Matter to Spirit,
p. 19.) Let our Society beware how it endeavours to be both at once. Its
increasing growth, its very achievements, inevitably tend towards timid
respectability. May it never forget to which body it essentially belongs,
nor shrink from the perils of the chase.
E. Westlakf,.
MK. STAINTON JIOSES AND MR. EARKWOKTII.
Tu the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—The really interesting thing in the Strange Case of Mr. Stainton
Moses is the question, "How do such stories come to be told?" From
Mr. Barkworth's letter in the Journal (Feb., 1894) I do not succeed in
gathering exactly what Mr. Barkworth's opinion as to this question may be.
(1) The Avitnesses allege that, in their belief, matter passed through matter.
Mr. Barkworth replies : "The thing is impossible, and there is an end of it."
It is also " unthinkable." Here be assertions. The process—assertion for
assertion— M " thinkable " by me. I can "think " it with perfect facility, if
by "thinking " it is meant the process of conceiving the event imaginatively.
Not being acquainted, as De Morgan was not, with the Nature of Things, I
do not know whether the passage of matter through matter is possible
or not : nor, to be plain, does Mr. Barkworth. Holding his own
views, he says that the evidence of people who aver that they
have seen matter pass through matter has doubt cast on it by
that very averment : and that persons so niorally weak would be pre-
disposed to hallucinations of other kinds.
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mae., 1894.
I am asking, why are these stories told ? Mr. Barkworth seems to think
they are told because Dr. and Mrs. and Mr. Charlton and Miss Speer, and
Mr. Percival, did not keep "a firm hand on first principles," as, c.;/., that
matter cannot pass through matter ; and again, were so morally vfeak as to
be capable of accepting suggestions which ended in collective hallucinations.
So far so good, if Mr. Barkworth really holds that collective hallucinations
can be produced by " suggestion," or " telepathy," in a group of persons who
have not, consciously, been hypnotised. 1 don't know if this is possible,
but if it can be done, experimental instances should be exhibited. Till a
well-selected assortment of collective hallucinations, produced by " sugges-
tion and telepathy," exerted on people who hive not consciously yielded
to such influences, is brought forward, Mr Barkworth's theory seems
attenuated. Mr. Percival, 1 am sure, knows as well as Mr. Barkworth that
matter cannot pass through matter. The precise extent of his " moral
weakness " I am not prepared to discuss. Mr. Barkworth, apparently,
holds that five or six people were feeble enough to bo all collectively hallu-
cinated by the same hallucinations, et voila pourqwji voire Ji'Je est nwcttc.
That is why the stories are told.
It must be plain to tlie most excruciatingly feeble mind that Mr. Moses'
friends were not such fools as not to know that matter cannot pass through
matter. But they had only a choice between a material and a moral miracle.
Matter did so pass, or their friend, the Rev. Stainton Moses, was deliberately
and consciously swindling them.
I am ready, nay, eager, to admit that an honourable man, if once he
encourages a tendency to " trances " and " somnambulism," may cheat un-
wittingly. I am so convinced of this, that—interested as I am historically,
and as a question of human nature and human evidence, in these stories—
1
greatly wish that nobody would ever put himself or herself into the abnormal
and unconscious, or semi-conscious, conditions of the seance. No good comes
of it ; here I quite agree with Mr. Barkworth. It is a practice contrary, not
only to Holy Scripture, as he urges, but to good taste and moral prudence.
Why some people become "entranced" when they sit round a table one
does not know. They do fall into this condition, however, and, in my
opinion, it is a condition (when voluntarily sought for) unworthy of a wise
man. " Lead us not into temptation " to forego our normal wits ! I am
not speaking of foregoing them under ansBsthetics for medical purposes, or
for scientifically conducted hypnotic experiment, but at " seances."
Returning from this moral digression, I repeat that Mr. Moses' friends
had their choice between a material and a moral miracle. Things came
through stone walls, or their friend deliberately swindled them. A man
when in an unconscious or non-normally conscious state may swindle un-
wittingly. But, either matter came through matter, or Mr. Bloses,
consciously and deliberately, stuffed his pockets with enamel crosses,
stones, scent-squirts, preparations of phosphorus, seed-pearls, and portable
pi-operty generally, " the same with intent to deceive." His friends pre-
ferred the material to the moral miracle. Tliis choice may show scientific,
but scarcely "moral," weakness on their part. Giving up, as undemonstrated,
the hypothesis that Mr. Percival and Mr. Charlton Speer were so morally
Mae ,
1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 221
weak as to be easily capable of identical collective hallucinations, we must
turn to a vera causa. People can be, and often are, beguiled by jugglery.
Now, it is possible that Mr. Moses for many years deliberately cheated his
friends. Scientifically speaking, we are driven to that conclusion, and that
alone. The party was not all in the cheat : that would have been too dull
a way of passing the evenings. They believed in what they saw. The
hypothesis of collective, frequent, and identical hallucination does not rest
on a vera causa. We do not know that such hallucinations can be produced
in the circumstances : if they can, it is an interesting fact. Thus Ave must, if
wo have a theory at all, suppose that Mr. Moses was a deliberate impostor.
What was his motive for " dres sing up to frighten Byng's aunt," every
nif'ht He got very little by it, not money, not social success, not fame,
only notice from a small sect of spiritualists. But man will cheat for the mere
fun of it ;
history is full of examples. But Mr. Barkworth, who does not say
in a straightforward manner, " Moses was a swindler," admits that he be-
lieved, to some extent, in his own marvels. He was " driven liack " by
them into theological heresies and moral imbecilities. If he believed in
his " influences," could he be a cheat ? Yes, he could ;
impostors can, and
do, believe m their own supoxheries. Not being statesmen, or mediums,
we find it difficult to understand this fact in human nature, but (I speak of
what I know), it isf a fact.
I now give a fact which has escaped the acumen of Mr. Barkworth.
In Prooeedings, XXV., p. 349, Mr. Charlton Speer, in perfect good faith,
tells the story which will be found in the place cited. Mr. Speer was sitting at
a table, his hand on a piece of paper. Mr. Moses, sitting opposite, said that
a very bright column of light was behind Mr. Speer. Doubtless that gentle-
man loohed round. Later, Mr. Moses saw a " spirit form," whose features
he did not recognise. After the seance, Mr. Speer found a message and a
signature on tlie paper (obviously written by Mr. Moses, some will say).
The name "was that of a distinguished musician who died in the early
part of the present century." Mr. Speer did not show Mr. Moses the writing,
but asked him if he could recognise the " spirit " in a set of photographs
of friends and " celebrities." Mr. Moses spotted the photograph of the dead
composer who had written the message. Mr. Speer regards this as "a very
fair proof of spirit identity." Now see p. 32(i. There " Grocyn " said that
Mendelssohn "would make Charlie" (Mr. Speer) "a great musician."
Grocyn said this on September 7th, 1873, before Mr. Speer had been admitted
to the circle. Thus Mr. Moses knew that Mendelssohn was interested in
"Charlie," long before he saw a "great composer," a dead man, beside
"Charlie." (See also p. 327, Note 3.) W^as that composer Mendelssohn?
Was Mr. Moses unfamiliar with the common photographs from portraits of
Mendelssohn 1
As to " lights," compare Mr. Charlton Speer (last lines of p. 345) with
Mr. Moses (p. 322 and p. 32G). In Mr. Speer's experience "they never
threw any radiance around them." According to Mr. Moses, one "cast a
great reflection on the oil-cloth."
Mr. Moses was a schoolmaster, and taught English literature. Yet
(p. 305) he needed Mr. Noyes to tell him who John Lydgate was !
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mar., I804,
I omit Dr. Speer's talk of "Polonius" and " Dionysius " in connection
with Grocyn ! His literary knowledge appears to have been scanty, or his
memory very unlike what we want in a good witness.
Enfin, the hypothesis of frequent, collective, and identical hallucination
is without basis in known facts. The hypothesis of collusion by the Speer
family and Mr. Percival is absurd.
The hypothesis of " unconscious " cheating does not meet the case. The
cheating must have been consciously prepared. There remain the hypotheses
— (A) of an unknown agency, capable of making matter pass through matter
(in which D.D. Home did not believe), and (B) the hypothesis that an upright,
sober, and convinced gentleman, a good fellow, admired and loved (as I
know) by his pupils at Universii-y College School, was a motiveless impostor.
In favour of hypothesis (A) we have similar alleged facts—"spontaneous"
—vouched for by a cloud of witnesses in all ages, including French mis-
sionaries in Cochin China ; and in favour of hypothesis (B) we have examples
of similar moral aberrations.
Personally, I can believe in neither of the hypotheses, neither that
matter came through matter, nor that Mr. Moses was a swindler. I give it
up : it is not necessary to have an opinion. But, personally, I find the
moral miracle the easier, by a shade, to believe in, of the two. So far as to
the (j^uestion of evidence, which is the really interesting question. As to
believing that the dead were at work—the famous dead of long ago—I do
most absolutely disbelieve that. Moreover, " Imperator's " refusal to admit
fresh lookers-on donne fiirieusement d penser. It is even more suspicious
than the story of the " distinguished composer,"—awkward, if the composer
was really Mendelssohn. For moral mediums cheating " unconsciously,"
see Professor Sidgwick, rroceedings S. P. R., Vol. V., pp. 401, 402.
A. Lang.
MK. BAEKWORTIl's " IMMUTABLE AND IMPREGNABLE LAWS."
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —The admission of Mr. Barkworth's letter is virtually a request
for a reply.
A catalogue of his really astonishing statements would be exceedingly
amusing reading : but space and time are precious, and I will only indicate
a few. He calls upon us to make a stand for "the first principles of human
reason " and the "axiomatic laws of nature and thought," and he backs this
up by a solemn reference to "the laws of matter" as "immutable and
impregnable laws." In a letter one cannot very well laugh, or I should have to
ask Mr. Bark worth to excuse me ; but he really is amusing. We all agree
that the laws of nature are "immutable and impregnable": the only
trouble is that the catalogue is still in the Editor's hands, and we do
not know what those laws are. No, there is anotlier trouble, —that we
are always being tempted to imagine we know.
Mr. Barkworth tells us that it is the height of unwisdom " to embark upon
experiments of this kind without keeping a firm grasp upon first principles,"
and he frankly adnuts us into his show, when he says, "The thing is im-
Mae., 1S04.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 223
possible, and there is an end of it." How very interesting ! Then he falls
upon poor Mr. Moses, who, "instead of boldly dictating to the unseen
agency the conditions under which it is to act, weakly suffered himself
to be led." How very English I
" Britons never, never will be slaves !
"
But what answer comes from all the laboratories of the world, where
the seers of Science ask, that they may receive, and seek, that they may
find ? Why, the very tirst thing the seers of Science have to learn is to
find out under what conditions the unseen forces can act : and the second
thing they have to learn is to steadily follow and obey. Fancy " boldly
dictating " to the unseen forces and objects, and insisting that the analysis
shall always yield to a pinch of pepper, or that the photograph shall be taken
under inspection at the town pump, or that the moons of Jupiter shall be
seen through the kitchen poker !
Mr. Barkworth presents us with three specimens of his " immutable and
impregnable laws." They are these : The loss cannot contain the greater :
two bodies cannot occupy the same space at the same time : matter cannot
pass through matter. Such impregnable-looking assertions ; but honey-
combed with fallacy or mal-intention. Who was it that told us a comet could
be packed into a carpet bag ? What does Mr. Barkworth mean by
"space " I Here is a cannon-ball : does it occupy all the space it seems to
occupy 1 The object which seems to occupy all the space in which it stands
is only a kind of sponge, in its way. Matter is always passing through
matter, as birds fly through the boughs of forest trees. It is all a question
of degree, and of the meaning of the word '
' through.
"
Mr. Barkworth's strong reference to Christianity being admitted
must not be passed over. "The cardinal truths of Christianity"
are matters of opinion. They are no more amenable to dogmatism
than are Nature's " immutable and impregnable " laws. Profound modesty
becomes us here. We are told that Mr. Moses suii'ered himself to be driven
from his " orthodox moorings." Why not ? We are voyagers, not Greenwich
pensioners.
Put into a nutshell, Mr. Bai'kworth's plea, from first to last, is pure
obscurantism : "We know all about it : the matter is closed : contradiction is
impossible : to be a seeker is to dictate your conditions and your dogmas :
the ideal philosopher is a limpet." It somehow seems a little out of date.
J. Page Hopps.
ON THE OBJECTIVITY OF APPARITIONS.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society fok Psy-chical Research.
Sir, —A thought has struck me with regard to Mr. Myers' sulgective
theory of apparitions.
I fancy his theory is that the hallucination (?), when veridical, may be often
caused by telepathy from some friend of the decedent, or by some deferred
latent impression in the mind of the percipient, the impressions in each case
being assisted by some physical cause, such as tlie state of the atmosphere,
or some subtle influences peculiar to the locality.
AH this is to me far more wonderful than a purely objective apparition
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mab., 1894.
would be, but what I would like to ask Mr. Myers is this : How does his tele-
pathic theory cover the fact of apparitions being seen by animals—dogs, cats,
and horses— as they undoubtedly are ?
Surely, this complex theory of telepathic and deferred latent impressions
would not apply to animals, since their cerebral development would hardly
bo elaborate enough for these delicate influences, I presume. And if anything
is proved, I should say it was the fact that apparitions are often seen by
animals, sometimes when wo can see nothing.
For a good example of this refer to the Jourrud S.P.Ii. for November,
1888, Vol, III., p. 326, when a dog would not cross a certain room after dark,
and once shrieked when the ghost was seen by a lady present. Surely, too,
the theory of suggestion, or dominant idea, or expectancy, would not apply to
animals in the matter of ghost seeing 1
F. B, DOVETON.
Babbaoombe.
[The evidence for the seeing of apparitions by animals, so far as we are
acquainted with it, is so meagre in amount compared with that relating to
apparitions seen by human beings, and, from the nature of the case, the m-
terpretation of it is so dubious, that it would l)e, in our opinion, rash to draw
any conclusions on the subject. For a possible explanation of the behaviour
occasionally evinced liy animals v/hen some person in their presence is seeing
an apparition, wo may refer to Mrs. Sidgwick's letter ia the JoJirnal S.P.II.
for .Juno, 1889, Vol. IV., pp. 95, 9G.-Ed.]
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY FUND.
yiccount for 1893.
RECEIVED
.
Balance from 1892
Interest on Consols
Interest on Midland Uru-
guay Railway Stock
Interest on Buenos Aires
Water and Drainage . .
.
£ s. d.
G 16 11
18 4
4 17 6
1 17 7
3 15 9
£18 6 1
PAID.
Paid for Books
Balance
£ s. d.
3 16 0
6 16 6
. 7 13 7
£18 6 1
Audited and found correct,
February 22)u?, 1894. H. Arthur Smith, Hon. Treasurer, S.P.R.
Alfred T. Fryer, Treasurer.
No. CIX.-VoL. VI. ArRiL, 1894.
JOUKNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Jlembevs and Associates
Meeting of tlie Council
General Meetins
Cases received by the Literary Committee
The Committee for tlie Systematic Investigation of Hypnotic Plienomena
Correspondence
Supplementary Library Catalogue
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are jjrefxed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Barclay, Rev. CiiAS.W., M.A.,The Vicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
BiELBY, Horace C. V., 67, Lord-street, Liverpool, W.
Bennett, Ernest N., M.A., Hertford College, Oxford.
Berry Mrs., F. M. Dickinson, M. D. 60,Welbeck-st., Cavendisli-sq.,W.
BouLNOis, H. Percy, M.Inst.C.E., 7, Devonshire-road, Liverpool.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ballimore, Tigh-na-bruaich, Argyllshire,N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., B.A., 22, Market Hill, Cambridge.
Danvers, Mrs., 4, Cranley Mansion, Gloucester-road, S.W.
Dulley, Rev. B., M.A., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
Gibson, Miss M. E., 23, Northumberland-street, Edinburgh.
Heape, Fred. W., Toorak, Oxton, Cheshire.
Hill, Clement Hugh, 63, Church-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Innes, Lady, Winslow, Darling Point, Sydney, New South Wales.
McReily, a. J. W., Q.C., Supreme Court, St. John's, Newfoundland.
Nelson, Mrs. R. A., The Rookery, Nungumbaukum, Madras.
Parkes, R. J., 2, Church-street, Southport, Lancashire.
*RoGERS, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Sheridan, Mrs. Dudley, Russell House, 4, West Kensington-gardens, W.
Smith, Mrs., Barnes Hall, Sheffield.
Stirling, J. M. Morries, Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Symonds, Miss, 1, Courttiekl-road, London, S.W,
PAGE
.. 225
.. 226
.. 227
.. 230
.. 231
.. 232
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Aphtl, isn4.
Walford, Col. Neville L., R.A., 1, Aslibum place, London, S. W.
Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 04, Harley-street, London, W.
Westgott, William Wynx\, M.B., D.P.H.,396, Camden-road, London, N.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Butler, C.W., M.D., 35, Fullerton-ave., South, Montclair,N.J., U.S.A.
*CoLEMAN, William Emmette., Chief Quartermaster's Office, San
Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
Gardiner, J. Hays, Hawes street. Long-wood, Mass., U.S.A.
Gulliver, Professor Julia H., Rockford College, Rockford, 111., U.S. A.
Kelly, W. F., 918, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Ledyard, Mrs. Pt. F. H., 88, East Senate-street, Columbia, S.C., U.S.A.
Librarian. Lowell City Library, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Maurs, Philip, G20, F. -street, Washington, D. C, U.S.A.
McClellan, Mrs. Clara D., Galena, 111., U.S.A.
Myrick, Rev. Henry L., Sing Sing, New York, U.S.A.
Openheimer, L. M., Austin, Texas, U.S.A.
Smith, J. Heber, M.D., 279, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Sterling, Mrs. E. C, 22, Westmoreland-place, St. Louis, Mo. U.S.A.
Underwood, B. F., 92, La Salle-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Washburn, Oscar F., West Acton, Mass., U.S.A.
Correction. —In the list of New Members and Associates of the
American Branch, given in the Jourtial for February, 1894, the name of
Mrs. David Hall Rice, of 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass,, U.S.A.,
was wrongly printed as Mrs. David Hall.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on March 9th, at the P^ooms of
the Society. Mr. R. Pearsall Smith was voted to the chair. There
were also present : Dr. J. Milne Bramwell and Messrs. W. Leaf, F. W.
H. Myers, F. Podmore, S. C. Scott, and H. A. Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Two new Members and twenty-two new Associates were elected,
whose names and addresses are given above, with the exception of one
Associate who desires that her name may not appear in the printed
list. The election of a new Member and thirteen new Associates of the
American Branch was recorded.
Mr. E. Dawson Ptogers was elected an Honorary Associate of the
Society for the current year, and Mr. William Emmette Coleman was
elected an Honorary Associate of the American Branch.
The Council was informed of the decease of two Associates of the
Society—the Rev, R. Shaen and Mr, W, R. Martin,
Apkii., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 227
The presents to the library included Theosoplty, or S-pirilual
Dynamics, by Dr. George Wyld, from the author, and a bound volume
of Light, for 1893, from the London Spiritualist Alliance. A vote
of thanks was accorded to the donors.
The Finance Committee presented an estimate of the income of the
Society for the year, and a scheme of expenditure. It was agreed that
the recommendations of the Oommittee should, as far as possible, be
carried out.
Various other matters having been attended to, the Council agreed
to meet at the Westminster Town Hall on Friday, April 27tli, at 3 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 64th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall, on Friday, March 9th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Mr. Pearsall
Smith in the chair.
Mr. F. Podmore read a paper on " Ptecent Experiments in
Thought-transference at a Distance."
He began by pointing out the high value of evidence of this kind,
both as forming an intermediate link between the more striking spon-
taneous manifestations of telepathy at a distance, and the ordinary
experiments at close quarters ; and as being free from the more serious
defects of the latter kind of evidence, viz., the risk of unconscious
apprehension through normal channels. The difficulties in the way of
experiments at a distance were such as a little patience would readily
surmount : and the amount of success already achieved in this direction
was of good augury for the future.
After briefly referring to the experiments in the induction of sleep
at a distance, conducted by Professor Pierre Janet, Dr. Gibert,
Professor Richet, Dr. Hericourt, Dr. Dusart, Dr. Dufay and others,
accoLints of which have appeai-ed in the Proceedings, Mr. Podmore
read an account taken from the Annates des Sciences Psychiques (Sept.
—Oct,, 93) of a successful experiment in the induction of an attack
of hysteria by Dr. Tolosa Latour, and one or two other accounts of
action at a distance from the same periodical.
Passing to experiments of a more usual type, he quoted some very
successful trials with playing cards, at a distance varying from 30 feet
to some hundreds of yards, by M. J. Ch. Roux and M. Lemaire
[Annates des Sciences Psycldques, 111., pp. 202-3), two experiments
by Miss Campbell and Miss Despard, and one by M. L^on Hennique
(Annates 111., pp. 114-6), all of which met with striking success. Mr.
Podmore concluded by giving some account of the long and valuable
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Apml, I804.
series of experiments in thought-transference at a distance, conducted
in 1890 by Mr. Joseph Ivirk, and exhibited facsimiles of some diagrams
reproduced, at a distance of 10 to 12 miles, by Miss L. Prickettj
Mr. Kirk being the agent.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then spoke on the subject of the Automatic
Writings of Mr. Stainton Moses.
A not unnatural objection, he said, had been taken in many
quarters to the apparent grotesqueness and triviality of the physical
phenomena experienced by Mr. Moses. It was felt that any alleged
intercommunication between this world and another ought to show
something more of seriousness and of moral purport. The speaker
therefore thought it desirable to point out at once—what might more
logically have come at a later stage in the exposition—that Mr. Moses'
" controls "—the alleged inspirers of his automatic script and utterance
—were above all things concerned with a course of moral and religious
instruction, much of which, indeed, Mr. Moses published in his lifetime
under the title of Spirit Teachings. In attempting to estimate the
value of these teachings, it was in the first place plain that they ought
not to be taken alone, but in connection witii similar automatic utter-
ances given elsewhere, especially when those utterances seemed to have
had the guarantee (such as it was) of accompanying supeimormal
phenomena.
Such writings, although often individually commonplace, acquired
considerable significance v/hen examined in the mass. It must, how-
ever, be understood that any religious knowledge or emotion to which
they might seem to introduce us must be regarded as an addition to
natural rather than to revealed religion. Ptevealed religion might be
defined to consist of statements whose authors claimed a more than
human authority;—a knowledge of the universe such as ordinary human
experience could not supply. To such an authority, in the speaker's
opinion, these automatic controls had no claim whatever. Even where
they signed their teaching with lofty names (and Mr. Moses' controls
used lofty names, although never (:/ii;ine names,) it would be rash indeed
to attach importance to such assumptions. It was possible, however—in
the speaker's opinion it was highly probable—that some at least of the
communicating influences proceeded from human beings who had
passed through the change of death, and who therefore might be
credited with an extension of experience which might enable them to
add to our knowledge of the laws of the universe. If enough of such
additions were ever made, then oiatural religion—representing man's
moral and emotional reaction to such obvious aspects of the universe
as he has already comprehended—might become something worthy of
the name of Scientific Eeligion ; representing man's moral and
ArEtL, 1894.] Joiirncd of Society for Psychical Research. 2^0
emotional reaction to cosmic law discerned with sufficient definiteness
to aiford a satisfactory guide to life.
The first step now open to us in such an inquiry consisted, in the
speaker's opinion, in a comparison of the general drift of automatic
utterance with the moral or spiritual inferences which might seem
deducible from telepathy—a law of communication of mind with mind
which might concei^'ably hold good for the unseen world—and which,
if it did operate in that world, might probably operate there in a more
conspicuous and unchecked fashion than in the material world, where
mere traces of it, although unmistakable traces, had now been found.
A freer play of telepathy suggested both a more complete trans-
parency, and a more intimate union of souls. The first of these results
involved a moral sanction of the most searching character, inasmuch
as the completely informed judgment of all the beings who surrounded
us might thus in an immaterial world be brought to bear upon our
most secret thoughts. The second inference—the possibility of a
closeness of union impossible under corporeal conditions, might be
looked to as affording our deepest suggestion of the characteristic
happiness of a spiritual state of existence. Telepathy, indeed, might
be regarded as the scientific or objective expression of what was
emotionally and subjectively felt as love. Mr. Moses' scheme of
teaching, and the teachings of other accredited automatic messages,
were in harmony (the speaker urged), with this admittedly vague and
uncertain development of natural religion,—-to which a wide-reaching
subliminal drift—whether or not depending on intelligences other
than those of incarnate men,—at present seemed to tend.
There were, the speaker added, two other main subdivisions of the
contents of Mr. Moses' notebooks, —besides the religious teachmg,
—
wliich would have to be noticed in due time.
The second main ingredient consisted of evidence for the identity of
alleged communicating spirits. The tldrd consisted of a record of private
experiences, in some ways intermediate between the physical manifes-
tations of the seance-room and the purely intellectual forms of auto-
matism. It might be necessary to make a somewhat prolonged demand
on the Society's attention ; but it was only by persistent and often
tedious study that, (as in the somewhat similar case of Mrs. Piper), the
true meaning of these confusing phenomena might gradually be made
known.
Dk. Wallace said that an instance of telepathy had very recently
come under his notice. A lady patient of his, of Avhose clairvoyant
experiences information would, he hoped, be given to the Society, had
on several occasions seen hallucinatory figures standing behind him
—
once a figure of an old lady, with whom the name of his maternal
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Apml, 1894.
grandmotlier was given. On the previous evening he had visited this
patient, and she had seen a hidy standing behind liim, looking dis-
pleased and anxious. This occurred at about two minutes to eleven,
and the name given in connection with the figure was that of another
patient. The latter came to see laim the following morning and
informed him that her child was taken ill the night before, at about
eleven o'clock, when she had thought of sending for him, but had not
done so.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G. 245. Collective. Apparition.
The following account was sent to Mr. Podmore, by Miss F.
Atkinson, of 25, Aldershot-road, Willesden-lane, N.W., enclosed in a
letter dated November 5th, 1893. Mr. Podmore had received a verbal
account of the incident from Miss Atkinson on the previous day.
On Saturday, July 1st, 1893, I was in L for the purpose of looking
over the old churches with a friend with whom I was staying. Among
others we went to St. M 's. My friend had been telling me of a very
dear old friend of the family who was buried in that churcli, and who had
left a sum of money to have a window put in to his memory, and had even
had the window prepared for the glass to be put in, but that the person who
had inherited his fortune neglected his wish. (I don't know how many
years he had been dead.)
After we had looked over the church, and among other things seen the
brass over this gentleman's vault, wo came to the window which ought to
have been filled in. I remember that the neglect of his wish quite made
me angry, and I said, looking at the window, " If I was Dr. I should
come back and throw stones at it."
Just then I saw an old gentleman behind us, but thinking he was look-
ing over the church took no notice. But my friend got very white and said
" Come away, there is Dr. !
" Not being a believer in apparitions, I
simply for the moment thought she was crazy, though I knew they were a
ghost-seeing famdy. But, when I moved, still looking at him, and the
figure before my very eyes vanished, I had to give in. Then it dawned upon
me that nobody could have been looking'over the church but ourselves.
First, the church had been empty when we went in, and nobody could
have come in without their footsteps being heard, and secondly, the part
where we were standing ended in a " cul de sac," and the person to get there
would have been obliged to ask us to move, as we entirely blocked up the
narrow aisle. For the few moments he was visible I saw Inm distinctly ;
he
was short and broad, and wore an old-fashioned tie, and a waistcoat cut low
and showing a great deal of shirt-front. One hand was resting on a pew,
and one down at his side holding his very tall hat. But the thing that struck
me most was the sun shining on his white ban-, and maknig it
look like silver ; even now I can see him distinctly hi my mind's eye. It
April, 18!)-1.] Journal of Society for Psyclvical Research. 2ol
certainly surprised me to see what was apparently " too solid flesh " dis-
appear before my very eyes, and when we got outside my friend told me
that his was tlie figure which came to different members of their family so
often, and, indeed, had been the cause of their leaving one house. One of
her sisters had so been aflected by it, that she will never sleep alone, or go
upstairs alone. When we got home T easily recognised the Doctor by his
photograph. F. Atkinson.
In reply to Mr. Podmore's further inquiries, Miss Atkinson writes :
—
25, Aldershot-road, Willesden-lanc, N.W. November dtli, 1893.
I have not heard from Miss yet, but am writing to answer your
questions.
No. 1. I heard no noise whatever, not the digidest sound. But I had a
feeling that I cannot describe that somebody was behind us. So I turned
round.
No. 2. As far as I can now remember we hotJi, turned at precisdy the
same moment. My friend naturally recognised him. I did not think anything
of it, until I saw her face when I turned back again to look at the window.
No. 3. Long before we went into L ,
my friend told me they had
been haunted to a dreadful extent at their old house. But beyond saying
that it was a man and an old friend of her mother's, [she] did not describe it,
and I did not [pay any attention to it]—knowing them to be a highly nervous,
hysterical family. We otherwise never talked about it, as she can't bear the
subject. Afterwards she told me it was Dr. , the figure we saw in the
church, who haunted them.
No. 4. The photograph was in a frame and Mrs. said :
—"Was it
anything like this '?
" And it was exactly like the figure. I forgot to tell you
that afterwards my friend told me that on going into the church she had felt
as though she could not go in, as if something was there, but did not like to
say so to me, as she knew I very much wished to go over it. She also
thought it might frighten me.
My only other experience was when I was a baby of about two or three,
when my little brother, who died, came to my mother, and then to me :
I don't remember it, but my mother says I cried out that he had come back
again, and she herself had just seen him. F. Atkinson.
Miss Atkinson asked her friend to give an account of her share in
the experience, but she declined to do so, alleging as a reason her strong
dislike of the whole subject. "We have, therefore, been unable to obtain
any further evidence in the matter.
THE COMMITTEE FOR THE SYSTEMATIC INVESTIGATION
OF HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA.
Tliis Committee continues to meet regularly at the Rooms of the
Society, on Tuesday evenings at 7 p.m. Some account of tlusir work
and methods was given in the February number of the Journal, and it
'232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ai'iur, isi)4.
is hoped that a further report will appear in the Journal for
May next.
The Committee desire chiefly to investigate the phenomena of
thought-transference, and for this purpose it is important to have as
many hypnotic subjects as possible, since the general experience of
investigators seems to show that only a small proportion of persons
susceptible to hypnotism possess the power of thought-transference.
There is also some reason to think that a prolonged course of hypnotism
may develop the power in subjects who show no signs of it when they
are first hypnotised.
Members and Associates of the Society are reminded that the Com-
mittee (whose names were given in the Journal for January, 1894)
are anxious to secure the co-operation of persons who are susceptible
to the action of hypnotism, or wlio are able to introduce any subjects
likely to be successful in experiments in thought-transference or
clairvoyance.
COKRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not resiwusihle fur opinions expvets»cd hy Gorrcspondcnlti.]
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research
TRANSCENDENTAL DYNAMICS.
Sir,—The letter I wrote for the February number seems to have caused
some unexpected commotion. My jDop-gun has drawn the fire of such heavy
artillery as that of Professor Lodge and Mr. Andrew Lang ;
and the Editor
of Light has called me a window. O'Connell's fishwife was greatly exercised
at being called a parallelogram, but merely to be called a window is not so
distressing. With my other critics, above-named, the case is different, and I
scarcely know whether to feel flattered or annihilated. It would, however,
be scarcely respectful to them if I were to withhold any reply, and I must,
therefore, make the best fight I can.
First, however, I must explain my position, which seems to have been
somewhat misunderstood—doubtless through my own fault. It will be
remembered that I began by saying that there were certain propositions
which were axiomatic, and did not admit of argument, "such are, &c." I
then (by way of illustration) (|uoted two well-known axioms. Any others
would have done e(iually well, but I chose these two because they had
a certain indirect reference to the matter in hand. To these I added another,
meaning to claim that it was of such a nature as to command acceptance on
the same grounds as the first two—viz., that it was a self-evident proposition.
There, of course, I was prepared to be contradicted, or, at least, it did not
surprise me ; but I confess I did not expect to be called upon to vindicate the
others. To say that what is true in mathematics is false in physics is surely
a dangerous assertion that would require extraordinary reasons to support
April, 1804.] Journal of Bocidy for Psycldcal liesearah. 288
iL* I must reluctantly decline to accompany Professor Lodge in an excur-
sion into a space of four dimensions, finding it quite a sufficient struggle to
exist in one of three ;
but, with his leave, I will examine some of his scientific
facts in the light of the latter, and see whether they support the deductions
he desires, or others of a very difi'erent kind.
A charge of gunpowder is smaller than the shell in which it is contained.
When the charge is tired, the volume of gas generated is greater than its
envelope, and proves in the most demonstrative fashion that the less does
nut contain the greater. But, says Dr. Lodge, the gunpowder potentially
contains the gas. This seems more like metaphysics than physics. An acorn,
which may be planted in a flower pot, potentially contains an oak. Therefore
I suppose the acorn is larger than the flower pot. And a pint of water
potentially contains a volume of steam larger than can be contained in a
cjuart kettle. Therefore the pint is larger than the quart. Which is absurd.
As to the argument from sugar and tea, I presume that the meaning is that
the fluid interpenetrates the molecules of sugar without adding to the cubical
contents of the latter. It would be equally true and conclusive to say that a
crowd of people can meet in a wood full of trees without increasing its area.
But what has this to do with two bodies in the same space ?
Thirdly, as to " matter through matter " : I doubt whether the argument
from osmosis is admissible, because it is arguing from the organic to the
inorganic. Shall we say that because vegetable matter can be converted into
animal tissue by assimilation, therefore the transmutation of metals is
possible ?
" A metal wire can pass through a solid block of ice, leaving it intact."
I can give another instance of this sort of thing, which it is just possible may
be new to Professor Lodge. There is a substance known as Woodite (after
the name of the inventor), which received the approval of SirE. Reed as an
external covering for ironclad vessels. On a target so covered being pierced
by a shell, the material was left apparently so intact that no water could have
leaked through it. But if this is what Dr. Lodge means by matter passing
through matter, it would be equally well displayed every time he passes
through a -swing door in his house which closes behind him. I submit,
tlierefore, that the scientific facts of Dr. Lodge, though indisputable, are
irrelevant ; and neither disprove the axioms in question nor support the
phenomena of Mr. Moses.
Finally, Dr. Lodge urges that to deny that pearls can be produced ex
nihilo would prove too much, since it would be fatal to their existence under
any conditions. I have always been told that pearls were secreted by oysters.
Are oysters, then, " nihil " ? If so, they are very dear at 3s. 6d. a dozen.
AVbat can Dr. Lodge mean ? t
*I once knew an eminent clergyman and Canon of the Chnfch, who Was asked
by way of a riddle, " What is tWo-thirds of three-fourths ? ''
He gave it up. When
told that it Was one-half, he pondered deeply, bnt at length said, "Well, it may be
mathematically trtie, but practically, it is unreliable." These distinctions are too
subtle for me, Truth is Onci
t Is it possible that Dr. Lodge means to &tiggest that " spirits " might conceivably
secrete pearls? We shall be told they lay eggs next.
234 Juufnal of I'Suclet}/ for Psycldcal Research.. [Apuil, 1804.
Let us now come to business. Dr. Lodge presumes that what I intend to
assert is, that solids do not pass through soHds. Well, pretty much so. I
certainly did not mean to assert, as some of my critics seem to think, that
water could not run through a sieve. But I should prefer to lie still more
precise on this occasion, and say that bells and lozenge boxes do not pass
through walls without making a hole in them. This I ventured to describe
as unthinkable—though perhaps it might have been more accurate to say
inconceivable. Mr. Lang says he can think it with perfect facility. But has
he ever tliuuglit it out'-
My first objection is, that before a bell can pass through a wall it must be
so transmuted (not in form—that is nothing, but in essence) that it would no
longer be a bell. Let me explain. A bell could of course be melted down
on one side of a wall and be re-cast on the other. In that case it would retain
its identity— in a sense. But then it would not be able to pass through the
wall. And even if the process were to be carried a stage further and the
molten metal were to be vaporised, the case would be no better ;
for if the
vapour of water will not pass through a solid substance, why should the
vapour of metal % And, beyond vaporisation, what further degree of com-
minution or disintegration can be thought possible or even imagined? It
might, however, pass if it were transmuted into an unknown gas or into some
fiuid analogous to electricity, for which the wall could serve as a conductor.
Now, what appears to me inconceivable is—not that an object should be elec-
trified, but that it should be transubstantiated into electricity,* leaving
nothing of its original constitution behind. And of course the reconstitution
of the object presents a similar dilficulty to the understanding. In fact the
bell Avould have to be itself, and at the same time something else, because
otherwise the supposed reconstitution would really be a new creation, which
would render any previous existence an unnecessary and superfluous con-
sideration. This is what I tried to express by the word "unthinkable."!
It is perhaps considerations such as these which have led another critic, Mr.
Maitland, to propose a metaphysical solution of the difliculty. Ho would
diff'erentiatc between matter as phenomenon and as the thing in itself. I
Avould refer him on this question to Kant's third chapter, on Phenomenon
and Noumenon, adequate quotations from which would be too long for this
letter. He will then, I think, see that his theory is not applicable in the
present case ; to which it may be added that all we know of concrete objects
such as bells is phenomenal, and rests upon sensory evidence.
My second objection is that, according to the record, the bell was neither
dematerialised nor disintegrated, nor anything else of the kind, but passed
'''1
atn of course only Using electricity as a type of the unknown fluid supposed m
the case, and am not suggesting anything so preposterous as that a bell or a crucifix
could be metamorphosed into electricity.
tThe limits of thought and supposition are, however, wide. There is a story of a
certain Yankee whose powers of imagination being challenged, said that he could sup-
pose himself swallowed by a bear, and that following this, nught come a crocodile
intent on swallowhig both him and the bear ; and that, further, ho could suppose the
extreme difficulty ho would fuel in deciding whether it was better to stay where he
was and take his chance with the hear, or sill' out and take his chance with the
crocodile.
Apeil, 189-1.] Journal of Society for Psychicat Research,.
through the wall whole and unaltered as an ordinary, ringable, phenomenal
"
bell. Here is the record (" Experiences," p. 267). The whole paragraph
should be read, but for brevity I quote only the following.
" In the dining-room there was a little bell. We heard it commence to
ring, and could trace it by its sounds as it approached the door which
separated us from it. What was our astonishment when we found that m
spite of the closed door the sound drew nearer to us. It was evidently
within the room in which we sat, for the bell Avas carried round the room
ringing loudly the whole time. . . . It rang under my very nose," &c.
Now I submit that a bell which can ring continuously must be possessed
of a clapper, a rim, and of everything that goes to make up a "common or
garden " bell. We are therefore driven to consider the other hypothesis,—
that the bell passed through the wall without change of any kind.
And here I pause to ask, Can it be possible that a Fellow of the Royal
Society can, except as a joke, require proof that a bell cannot pass through a
wall "without detriment " to the wall ? It would seem so, from the sentence
out of which these words are quoted. For my part, if called upon for such
proof, I should not know where to begin. I will therefore give the words of
a higher authority. The philosopher Locke, in his Essay on the Htmcm
Uiukrstandinfi (ch. 4, sects. 1, 2, and 3) says as follows :
"That which hinders the approach of two bodies when they are moved
one towards another, I call solidity. . . . This of al others seems the idea
most intimately connected with, and essential to body, so as nowhere else to
bo found, or imagined, but only in matter. And though our senses take no
notice of it, but in masses of matter, of a bulk sufficient to cause a sensation
in us ;
yet the mind, having once got this idea from such grosser sensible
bodies, traces it farther, and considers it, as well as figure, in the minutest
particle of matter that can exist; and finds it inseparably inherent in body,
wherever or however modified. This is the idea which belongs to body,
whereby we conceive it to fill space. The idea of which filling of space is,
that where lue imcigine any space taken up by a solid substance, we conceive it
so to possess it, thai it excludes all other solid substances : and will for ever
hinder any two other bodies, that move towards one another in a straight
line, from coming to touch one another, unless it removes from between
them in a line not parallel to that which they move in.
"
The first of the passages I have italicised may also be set off against Mr.
Westlake's quotation from Professor Clerk Maxwell.*
If Professor Lodge will not allow me to assert without proof that a solid
object cannot pass through a wall without making a hole in it, I may expect
to be called " dogmatic " for asserting that the earth is not fiat, or that
pigeons' eggs do not grow on trees. Indeed, certainty as an attitude of the
mind must be abandoned in despair.
* I have only had opportunity for a hufried glanee at the article in the Enc. Brit,
referred to, but it seemed to me that the author was only stating one out of several
possible opinions on the subject. Further on he writes, " The atom has nbt the
so-called property of impenetrability, fur two atoms may exist in the same place.
This we may regard as oite cxlrcme of the various opinions about the constitution of
matter." The italics are mine.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1894.
I now pass to the second division of the subject, viz., those alleged facts
which I did not unconditionally deny, but which I attributed to the action of
suggestion, &c., instead of to spirits.
On this point Dr. Lodge makes use of an illustration taken from the
A^tlantic cable, the application of which I do not fully detect. All that strikes
me upon it is, that if it were noticed that the spot danced whenever the
attendant shook it, and that after the cable was cut it continued to dance all
the same, it would be difficult to resist the conclusion that the phenomenon
was due to the shaking and not to any communication from beyond the
ocean. Dr. Lodge is opposed to the notion of dictating to phenomena, which
he attributes to me. In this he has, I think, misconceived my meaning, or
else lias overlooked the important distinction between investigations into the
operation of " suggestions " and almost any other inquiry. How are sugges-
tions to be tested except by giving them ? And how, in that case, are they
to be given except by dictating them ? I do not propose to dictate to
phenomena, but to the passive consciousness of the medium, which, I contend,
produces the phenomena. If the latter then answer to the suggestions so
given, my theory is confii-med. The subject under immediate consideration
is more jjarticularly automatic writing, and has it not been constantly
observed that the character of the writing corresponds to the suggestions,
conscious or unconscious, of the writer ? Thus, to those who approach the
experiment in fear of diabolic influence, the unknown one claims to be Satan,
and those who are expecting answers from known decedents get correspond-
ing replies. This of course is only a bare sketch of my meaning, which would
have to be considerably filled in to accord with particular cases. What I am
concerned to show is, that the phenomena should not be left to take care of
themselves. In this connection I will propose an analogy which seems to me
closer than that of the Atlantic cable. I suggest, then, that if the views of
Dr. Lodge were carried out in regard to, say, a delicate experiment
in chemistry, he would avoid "boldly dictating" to his assistant the
materials or cj^uantitics to be employed, and would take from the shelves of
his laboratory whatever came first, Avould pour them promiscuously into a
retort, and would then sit down and "allow himself to be the almost passive
recipient of whatever phenomena might . . . occur." (The words are his
own.) In such a case the result would probably be that which actually occurred
in one of the Moses stances, viz., a " coarse and pungent scent," by which,
however, the cause of science would not be advanced.
When Dr. Lodge confesses that if Mr. Moses had persisted in
attributing the communications to a milkmaid they would soon have attained
the desired level, he virtually gives away the whole spiritist case ; for this
involves the admission that the new suggestion would have overcome the
old one (of spiritist agency), and have proved that such suggestions, and their
Gonsequent effects, can be varied at will. Surely that is proof enough that
the effects are duo to the suggestions, and not to extraneous agencies.
With regard to the banknote and the seed pearls, Dr. Lodge has missed
the main point of my argument, which I should have thought was too obvious
to need insistence. A £1,000 note would have been of extreme value as a
test, not only because of the uotoricty which its disappearance would have
April, 1894,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 237
obtained, but because such things are safeguarded with such exceptional care
that their abstraction would possess an evidential value quite beyond what
attaches to mere trifles. Similarly "ropes of pearls " found in the keeping
of a man not remarkably wealthy, and not claimed by anyone else, would
possess an evidential value far above that of seed pearls which could have
been easily procured for a few shillings. Professor Lodge seems to have
penned these remarks without much reflection.* On the other hand, tracing
these objects to somebody's pocket would have been no use whatever, for the
same thing has been done over and over again, without the cause of spiritism
being the least weakened in the minds of its dupes.
Turninf once more to Mr. Westlake, and his assertion that I can form no
idea of the velocity with which gravity is propagated, he has here overlooked
the distinction between real and notional assent, as expounded by Newman.
I can give a notional assent to such velocity without being able to com-
prehend it as a concrete mental image ; but to the proposition that a bell
can pass through a brick wall without making a hole in it, I am mentally
incapable of giving any assent, real or notional. It is more than miraculous
It is unthinkable.
If Mr. Westlake will do me the honour to read again the second of my
two propositions to which he refers, he will see that what he has said upon
the relative value of difterent kinds of evidence is in no way opposed to my
proposition ; on the contrary, I have often urged the same view myself.
There is nothing in Mr. Hopps' letter which need be replied to.
Thomas Barkworth.
[A letter received from Mr. Charlton T. Speer too late for insertion iia
this nunrber of the Journal will appear in the next.]
SUPPLEMENTAEY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list (.Journal for Jmuary, 1894).
The books marked with an * are presented by the Executors of the late
Dr. Myers.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
ENGLISH.
B-ELL (Dr.), Animal Electricity and Magnetism London, 1792
CouRMELLES (Dr. Foveau de). Hypnotism. From the French,
by Laura Ensor London, 1891*
Felkin (R.W., M.D..), Hypnotism or Psycho-Therapeutics
(2 copies) London, 1890*
By the way, Dr. Lodge calls the " keyhole " of a bank "solid material. " If he really
means this it explains mnch.
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Apbil, is94.
FEPaiiEii (David, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.), The Functions of the
Brain (2nd Edition) London, 1886*
HoESLEY (Victor, B.S., M.B.Lond., and F.R.C.S.), On Substitu-
tion as a means of restoring Nerve Function considered with
reference to Cerebral Localisation. Reprinted from the
irmcei, July 5th, 1884 London, 1884*
The Motor Centres of the Brain and the Mechanism of the
Will London, 1885*
Hudson (Thomson Jay), The Lawof Psychic PhenoQiena. A Work-
ing Hypothesis for the Systematic Study of Hypnotism,
Si^iritism, Mental Therapeutics, &c London, 1893*
Jackson (J. Hughlings, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P.), The Croonian
Lectures on the Evolution and Dissolution of the Nervous
System. Reprinted from the British Mediccd Journal,
March 29th and April 5th and 12th, 1884 London, 1884*
Kekr (Norman, M.D., F.L.S.), Should Hypnotism have a recog-
nif?ed place in ordinary Therapeutics London, 1890*
Kingsbury (Geo., M.D.), The Practice of Hypnotic Suggestion
London, 1891*
Ladd (Prof. G. T.), Elements of Physiological Psychology London, 1887*
Langley(J.N., F.R.S.), The Physiological Aspect of Mesmerism.
A Lecture at the Royal Institution 1884*
Lodge (Prof. Oliver, F.R.S.), Thought Transference : An Appli-
cation of Modern Thought to Ancient Superstitions 1892*
Moll (Albert, M.D.), Hypnotism. From the German. London, 1890*
Myees (A. T. ,
M.D.), Hypnotism at Home and Abroad. Re-
printed from the Pradit loner, March, 1890 London, 1890*
.Tames Esdaile. Reprinted from the National Dictionary
of Biography. (2 copies) N.D.*
NicoLL (Augustus, M.B. and CM. Edin.), Hypnotism, Loudon, 1890*
OcHOEOWicz (Dr. J.), Mental Suggestion. With a preface by
Professor Ch. Richet. From the French by J. Fitzgerald,
M.A i\^ei(j Tor/.:, [1891]*
PURDON (John Edward, A.B., M.D.), The Psychical Import of
Variable Achromatopsia. Reprinted from the Transactions
of the Medical Association of Alabama, U.S. A N.D.*
RiBOT (Th.), Diseases of Memory London, 1882*
TucKEY (0. Lloyd, M.D.), The Value of Hypnotism in Chronic
Alcoholism London, 1892*
TuKE (D. Hack, M.D., LL.D.), A Dictionary of Psychological
Medicine. 2 Vols .. London, 1892*
Yeo (Professor Gerald Francis, M.D., F.R.C.S.), The Nervous
Mechanism of Hypnotism London, 1884*
AzAM (Dr.), Ilypnotisme. Double Conscience et Alterations de la
Personnalite 1887*
Bab^ty (Dr. A.), Lo Magnutismc Animal Paris, 1887*
Apbiiv, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 239
Beaunis (Prof. H.), Recherches Experimentales sur les Condi-
tions de L'Activite Cerebrale et sur la Physiologie des Nerfs
Paris, 1886*
Le Somnanibulisme provoque : Etudes Physiologiques et
Psychologiques Paris, 1886*
BiRiLLON (Dr. Edgar), Hypnotisme Experimental. La Dualite
Cerebrale et I'indepeudance fonctionnelle des deux Hemis-
pheres Cerebraux Paris, 1884*
Bernheim (Dr.), De la Suggestion et de ses applications a la
Therapeutique. (2 copies) Paris, 1884*
BouERU (Prof. H. et Prof. P. Burot), Action a Distance des Sub-
stances Toxiques et Medicamenteuses ; suivie d'une Commu-
nication par M. Ch. Richet Paris, 1886*
La Suggestion Mentale, et I'Action a Distance des Sub-
stances Toxiques et Medicamenteuses Paris, 1887*
Variations de la Personnalite Paris, 1888*
Brvllaed (Dr. Joseph), Considerations Generales sur I'Etat
Hypnotique Nancy, 1886*
Charcot (J. M.), Hemorragie et Ramollissement du Cerveau ;
Metallothera-pie et Hypnotisme ;
Electrotherapie Paris, 1890*
Delboeup (Prof. J.), De I'Origine des Effets curatifs de
I'Hypnotisme Paris, 1887*
DiCHAS (Dr. A.), Etude de la Memoire dans ses Rapports avec
le Sommeil Hypnotique {2 copies) Par is, 1887*
E-swNAs (Prof. A.), Du Sommeil provoque chez les Hysteriques
Bordeaux, 1884*
Fer^ (Dr. Ch.) La Pathologic des Emotions ; Etudes Physiolo-
giques et Cliniques - Paris, 1892*
Janet (Prof. Pierre), Etat mental des Hysteriques, les
Stigmates mentaux. Preface de M. le Prof. Charcot... Paris, 1892*
Lafontaixe (Ch.), L'Art de Magnetiser ou le Magnetisme Vital
(5th Edition) Paris, 1886*
Li^beault (Dr. A. A.), Etude sur le Zoomagn^tisme Paris, 1883*
Li^geois (Prof. J.), De la Suggestion Hypnotique dans ses
Rapports avec le Droit Civil et le Droit Criminel Paris, 1884*-
Luys (Dr. .J.), Les Emotions chez les Sujets en Etat d'Hypno-
tisme Paris, 1887*
PiTRES (Prof. A.), Des Suggestions Hypnotiques ...Poi'cZeauj;, 1884*
Richer (Dr. Paul) Etudes Cliniques sur la grande Hysterie
Snd Edition Paris, 188.5*
TouEETTE (Dr. Uilles de la) L'Hypnotisme et Les Etats Ana-
logues au point de vue Medico-Legal Paris, 1887*
Van Renterghem (Dr. A. W. et Dr. F. Van Eeden), Psycho-
Th^rapie Suggestive. Compte Rendu des resultats obtenus
pendant la premiere periode bisannuelle, 1887
—
9... Brussels, 1889*
Yung (Dr. Emile) Le Sommeil Normal et le Sommeil Patho-
logique Paris, 1883*
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1894.
Baierlacher (Dr. E.), Die Suggestions-Therapie und ihre
Technik Stuttgart, 1889*
Du Prel (Dr. Carl), Stuclien aus clem Gebiete der Geheimwissen-
schaften. Erster Theil : Thatsache und Problerne ...Xeij^sify, 1890
ExperimentalDsychologie und Experimentalmetaphysik
Leipzig, 1891
LufiBEAULT (Dr. A. A.), Hypnotismus und Suggestionstherapie.
Aus der Zeifcsclirifb fiir Hypnotismus. Heft 1 1892"
Moll (Dr. Albert), Der Hypnotismus Berlin, 1889*
2nd Edition (2 copies) Berlin, 1890*
Obeesteiner (Prof. Dr. H.), Der Hypnotismus aus der klinische
Zeit- und Streitfragen. Heft H Vienna, 1887*
ScHRENCK-NoTZiNG (Dr. Freiherr von) Die gerichtliclie Bedeu-
tuns und missbrauchliche Amvendung des Hypnotismus
Mnnicli, 1889*
. Ein Beitrag zur therapeutischen Verwerthung des Hypno-
tismus Leipzig, 1888*
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Absoh'te, The Further Determination of the. Printed for
Private Circulation N.D.*
Clarke (Richard F., S.J.), Lourdes and its Miracles London, 1888*
Fitzgerald (P. G.), The Philosophy of Self-Consciousness London, 1882*
Hecker (Prof. .7. F. C, M.D.), The Epidemics of the Middle
Awes. From the German by B. G. Babington, M.D., F.R.S.
3rd Edition London, 1859*
SiNNETT (A. P.), The Rationale of Mesmerism London, 1892*
Stevens (E. W.), Tlie Watseka Wonder : A Narrative of Pheno-
mena occurring in the case of Mary Lurancy Vennum Chicago, 1878*
The Watseka Wonder : A Narrative (as above). Also, Mary
Reynolds : A Case of Double Consciousness. By Rev. Wm. S.
Plummer,D.D. FromJTor23e/''silfa(/«-anefor May,1860 Chicago, 1887*
Symonds (.John Addington, M.D.), Sleep and Dreams ...London, 1851*
Weatherly (L. A., M.D.) The Supernatural? With a chapter
on Oriental Magic, Spiritualism and Theosoi^hy London, 1891*
" Light" (Bound Volume of), for 1893 London, 1893t
Maitland (Edward) The Story of the New Gospel of Interpre-
tation. Told by its Surviving Recipient London, 1893g
[Moses (W. Stainton)], " M.A. (Oxon)." Visions. Reprinted
horn Light London, [\88Si]
Spirit Teachings through the Mediumship or W. Stainton
Moses (M.A., Oxon.). Memorial Edition (2 copies}... London, 1894t
Wyld (George, M.D.), Theosophy, or Spiritual Dynamics and
the Divine and Miraculous Man London, 1894^
t Fi-esented by the London Spiritualist Alliance.
§ Presented by the Author-
17T May, 1894.
No. ex.—Vol. VI.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. ^^^^
.... 241
New Members and Associates 2^.,
Meeting of the Council .
. 242
?hrc.SnSe'o; the Systematic Investigation of Hypnotic Phenomena .. •
.
247
Cases received by the Literary Committee 251
Correspondence
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
jVames of Members are printed in Black Type.
N'ames of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
B\coN. Rev. John Mackenzie, M.A., Coldash, Newbury.
Bell Major Wm. Morrison, Thor, Birchingbon, Thanet, Kent.
BowELL, Ernest W. W., Sissinghurst Vicarage, Staplehurst, Kent.
Davies,'ben.jamin, 50, Marlborougli-road, Tue Brook, Liverpool.
Davis, Joseph T., Holly Bush, Snaresbrook, Essex.
GiTTERMANN, RuDOLPH C, Odessa, Russia.
Hasl\m Prof., M.a., St. Barbe, Riccarton, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Johnson, Rev. Wayland LL.D.,709,Ferry-street,Easton,Penn.,U.S.A.
Jones P., 16, Via Massimiliana, Trieste, Austria.
Laurie, Prof. H., LL.D., President of the Victorian Society for
Psychical Research, Melbourne.
Lees Lieut. W. E., Royal Engineers, R.A. and R.E. Mess, Malta.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagnalstown, Co. Carlow.
PoLLEXFEN, F. H., 3, Chetwynd-road, Oxton, Cheshire.
PoNTiFEX, Miss, 72, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Sweeting, Richard, D.H., B.A., D.P.H., 6, Hereford Mansions, Here-
ford-road, Bayswater, W.
Ward, Wilfrid, Molescroft, Eastbourne.
Wells, Miss Grenville, 27, Westbourne-square, London, W.
Whiting, J. Markby, 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W,
Wylie, J. Eilenroe, Cap d'Antibes, S. France.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1894.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Cabot, Caroline A.,,M.D., 168, W.-48 Street, New York, N.Y.
Douglas, George W., c/o T. McEwen, Junr., 29, Vesey-.street, New
York, N.Y.
Dyer, Walter H., Knightsville, Maine.
FiNNiGAN, John, 90, Gold-street, New York, N.Y.
GoFF, F. C, Morgan Run Coal and Mining Company, Cleveland, Ohio.
Lawrence, A. E., Junr., Exeter Chambers, Back Bay, Boston, Mass,
Robinson, C. W., 108, Travis-street, Houston, Texas.
Stone, Col., W. L Mount Vernon, New York.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on April 27th, at the Town
Hall, Westminster, Professor H. Sidgwick in the chair. There were
also present :
—Drs. A. W. Barrett, and J. Milne Bramwell, and Messrs.
T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore and R.
Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Dr. A. W. Barrett, of 42, Finsbury Square, was co-opted as a
Member of the Council for the current year in accordance with Rule 17.
"
One new Member and eighteen new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and seven new Associates of the American
Branch was recorded. The names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of Captain James,
one of the oldest Hon. Associates of the Society.
It was agreed that a General Meeting should be held on Friday,
July 13th, at 4 p.m., in addition to that already arranged for June 8th.
Other matters of business having been attended to, the next
meeting of the Council was fixed for June 8th, at 19, Buckingham-
street, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 0-5 th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall, on Friday, April 27th, at 4 p.m. ; Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
After a few remarks from the Chairman in explanation of why the
paper by Mr. Hodgson announced for this meeting was not forthcoming
Mr. F. W. H. Myers made the following statement :
—
I have the pleasure of informing the Society of an event which is
likely to be of great advantage to the cause of Psychical Research.
A new Society, of an international character, called the Psychological
May, .1894.] Journal of Society for PsijcUcal Research. 243
Society, or Societe de Psychologie, has been founded in France and
England, with objects very similar to those of our own Society. Of
course, the mere multiplication of Societies is in itself no gain, but
rather a waste of power ; but in this case there has been a special reason
for tlie new foundation. The Countess of Caithness, who is also by her
first marriage Duchesse de Pomar, has long been interested in Spiritu-
alism and kindred inquiries. Her only child, the Due de Pomar,
who is unmarried, shares these interests. They are both of them
desirous that in the event of the Due de Pomar's continued celibacy,
the large property which Lady Caithness inherited from her father
should be devoted to the furtherance of psychical inquiry and instruc-
tion ; and they have united in bequeathing that property to the newly-
formed Society. The testaments are, of course, subject to revocation
;
but assuming that they remain unaltered, a very ample endow-
ment will accrue to our studies on the demise of the testators. It is
the natural desire of Lady Caithness that France, where she resides,
and where the important mansion which forms part of the bequest is
situated, should share in the advantages thus accruing. After much
consideration it was decided that the best way of effecting that end
was to place the new Society under a Board of Directors-themselves,
of course, precluded from deriving any pecuniary benefit from the
bequest—half of whom should be French and half English. The
Presidency of this Board was oflfered to Mr. Crookes ;
but while consent-
in- to be a member of the Board, he did not wish to give the time
needed for the main direction of its work. Professor Richet was
therefore unanimously elected President, and the Vice-Presidency was
conferred upon myself, in order to indicate the close harmony intended
to prevail between this new Society and our own.
Associates can now be elected, and will pay ten francs, or eight
shillings, yearly. In France a good many Associates have already
enrolled' themselves, and I shall be very glad if, say, some forty or
fifty En^dish Associates will now join. There is naturally less
obvious reason for joining the Psychological Society in England than
there is in France, as we are already doing so much the same work.
But I think that it is important to maintain from the beginning the
thoroughly international character of the new Society, in view of the
<^reat p°ower of development which its proposed endowment may confer
upon it in the future. And there will, I think, be enough of difference
in the aims and activities of the two groups to make this new inter-
national group specially attractive to at least one section of our own
members. On the- one hand, the very raison d'etre of the S.P.B. is
the inclusion of persons at every possible point of view who agree
only in desiring to apply a scientific treatment to all the psycho-
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1894.
logical problems whose study they undertake. Amongst us, therefore,
are many who are interested in telepathy or in automatism, but
who are less interested in Spiritist inquiries. In the new Society,
while the scientific aim and treatment will be in every respect, I
hope, as carefully maintained as in our own, —and so long as Professor
Richet is its President, his name is a guarantee for this —there will, I
think, be a larger proportion of effort and inquiry directed to Spiritistic
problems. Professor Richet proposes, for instance, to make a critical
collection of alleged spirit-photographs, of which a duplicate copy might
perhaps be placed in England, if our English subscriptions sufficed to
meet the expense. Professor Richet has also held many sittings of
late with Eusapia Paladino, with results of which I hope we may be
able to give later on a detailed account, and the question of inviting her
to England is one which the new Society might naturally entertain.
I therefore invite adhesions to the Psychological Society. For the
present, applications may be sent to me at Cambridge. I will
ask correspondents not to expect an immediate reply. When an
election is held, they shall be informed ; and it is understood that the
fact that a candidate already belongs to the S.P.R. is a sufificieut
qualification for election to the new Society.
Mr. W. CpvOOKes, F.R.S., said that he attached great importance to
the new Society, and trusted that it would be warmly supported
on this side of the Channel. Opportunities of exact and definite
inquiry into the so-called "Phenomena of Spiritualism" not un-
frequently occurred ; but such inquiry needed funds, which he hoped
the Psychological Society might be able to supply. He trusted that
the link between the elder and younger Societies would be a very
close one, although it had not seemed desirable to attempt an absolute
identity.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then gave an address on " Retrocognition," of
which the following is a brief summary :
—
" In 1888, Mrs. Sidgwick published in our Proceedings a paper on
Premonitions, in which, while pointing out the relative scantiness of
the evidence thus far collected for any knowledge of the future,
she urged the importance of keeping a look-out for fresh cases. In
the six years which have since elapsed, the evidence has more than
doubled in quantity, and has in some ways improved in quality
;
especially by the substitution (so to call it) in some few instances of
crystal-visions, which are a form of experiments in hallucination, for
dreams, which are one of the least satisfactory forms of spontaneous
evidence. It continues to be extremely desirable that crystal-vision
should be more widely practised, and the results, when there are any,
recorded carefully and at once. If for premonitory dreams we could
May, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 245
more f^enerally substitute these premonitory pictures, we might give at
once a frequency and a definiteness to the proofs of precognition which
they can hardly otherAvise obtain.
" Moreover, we have now reached a point in our study of the Sub-
liminal Self at which it seems needful to discuss in a somewhat broader
manner the relation of subliminal cognition to time, both to time past
and to time future. For the present, T speak only of its relation to
time i)ast,— oi the various ways, normal and supernormal, by which
we can summon into our own active consciousness the events of the
past. These ways are ordinary memory, subliminal memory, and
telepathy, from living men or from unembodied spirits.
[Examples given of these various classes.]
"It has also been claimed that some j;erso?i«Z trace attaches to
organic matter, or to objects kept near an organism ; and that some
imjyersonal trace attaches to inorganic matter. Much more experiment
is needed on these points. Finally, in some cases it seems as though
pictures were presented to the percipient from some ' cosmic picture-
gallery,' or record, perhaps in a larger mind than the individual man's,
of the past of the universe. All these retrocognitive experiences must
be considered in connection with the precognitive cases, with which I
hope to deal in a later paper. In the meantime, further experiments
or records of spontaneous incidents will be very welcome."
Mr. T. Barkworth said that mediums being persons confessedly
endowed with extraordinary receptive powers, it was necessary, in
estimating the results they obtain, to keep in view not only the
possibilities of their own conscious or unconscious memories, but also
those of all the other partners in the seance. As regards so-called
psychometry, it was surely a simpler explanation to suppose thought-
transference from the mind of the possessor of the object presented to
the clairvoyant, than any mystical properties in the inanimate object
itself.
Mr. Edward Maitland expressed great satisfaction at the
advance indicated in Mr. Myers' address. For it meant that the
Society for Psychical Research was at length finding its Psyche. The
whole of the work in which he had collaborated with the late Dr.
Anna Kingsford was a demonstration of the permanence of the human
Ego, as shown by its power to recover in a later incarnation the
recollection of experiences undergone and knowledge acquired in
previous incarnations. It was by this means that they had been
enabled to recover the long lost Gnosis, which underlay all the world's
sacred scriptures and religions, and which solved all the mysteries of
existence. And on seeking the source and method of the revelation,
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1894.
Mrs. Xingsforcl received, in response to a mental request made by
himself of which she was unaware, an instruction concerning inspira-
tion and prophesying, in which it was said :
" None is a prophet save
he who knoweth : the instructor of the people is a man of many lives.
Inborn knowledge and the perception of things, these are the sources
of revelation." Matter, then, is not the substance of existence and basis
of evolution. Matter is phenomenon. The substance of existence is
divine, —is divinity ; And the soul, as an individual portion of that
substance, is possessed of divine potentialities. "Wherefore, as the
manifestation of a divine inherency, evolution is accomplished only by
the realisation of divinity, the process whereof is called Regeneration,
and, being very long, necessitates Reincarnation. For it consists in the
elaboi^ation of a spiritual and substantial self-hood within the material
and phenomenal self-hood, as its matrix. This is what was called by
Aristotle the EnteJerlieia, and by St. Paul, the "Clirist within." Such
is the doctrine of Scriptui-e and of Reason, and of which the Christ is
the personal demonstration. And in such measure as the Psyche is
found, it is confirmed by experience.
The Rev. J. Page Hopps asked for a definition of the sense in
which the word " hallucination ''
was used by the Society : as their use
seemed to him to divei-ge from the ordinary acceptation, which implied
something deceptive or delusive.
Mr. Myers replied that Mr. Gurney had defined hallucinations as
" Percepts which lack, but which can only by distinct reflection be
recognised as lacking, the objective basis which they suggest,"—this
definition marking them off on the one hand from true perceptions, and
on the other from remembered images or mental pictures. Some
hallucinations were wliolly delusive ;
some, on the other hand, were
coincident with some actual fact which they indicated. But the
element common to all of them was lack of correspondence with
immediately present material reality ; so it seemed best to keep the
word hallucination for all cases, but to distinguish as veridical those
hallucinations which did in some way convey actual fact. The speaker
added that he saw a lady present who could, if she would, give the
meeting some interesting examples of the apparent retracing of the
history of inanimate objects.
Miss X., responding to this invitation, said, that having accident-
ally discovered that she had some faculty of cognition of the kind
called, for want of a better name, " psychometric," she had experi-
mented carefully in this direction, but only to find that impressions
were far more veridical when spontaneous than when sought for by
experiment. In this respect, as well as in some others, the phenomena
seemed to her to follow the analogies of crystal-gazing, and, as in the
May, 1S04.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 247
case of the crystal pictures, to be explained in most of her own
experiences by thought-transference. iShe did not, however, feel that
these, even for herself, had been of sufficient importance to be at all con-
clusive. She quoted three experiences, illustrating (1) what seemed
to her a clear case of thought-transference, (2) an instance in which
the theory of thought-transference would need to be considerably
stretched to meet the case, and in which the hypothesis of clairvoy-
ance might conceivably be suggested, and (3) an instance in which it
seemed that the thought-transference, if such there were, must have
reached some sub-conscious stratum of her intelligence.
In the lirst case, she had seen a picture of tire (which struck her
as being of volcanic, or other, not ordinary, origin) followed by one
of sea-waves. This occurred on the handling of a stone, known by
the person who gave it into her hands to be from the shores of the
Dead Sea. In the second case, she had a vision apparently of the
Jews' Wailing Place, on handling a stone which had actually come
from that spot though at the moment erroneously supposed by the
person handing it to her to have come from Rome. The third case
had interested her as perhaps suggestive of the method of this sort
of impression. A heap of papers—the appearance of which suggested
nothing but washing-bills—had been placed in her hands by a friend
who knew their history. On handling them for a few moments. Miss
X. found herself gazing at a large meadow in which the grass seemed
to be burnt and trampled, and strewn with small white articles, which,
for the moment, she supposed to be the " washing " in question. The
impression, however, was accompanied by a sense of horror—a percep-
tion of cruelty and bloodshed, inconsistent with the drying-ground of
a laundry. The papers were, as a matter of fact, picked up, on the
morrow of the battle, on the field of Sedan.
Miss X. added that she did not feel herself in a position to theo-
rise on the subject, but hoped that the narrative of some practical
experiments might serve as incentive to others to try their own powers
in the same direction.
Mr. Veitch gave some account of his own "psychometric"
experiences, which had some analogy with those related by Miss X.
THE COMMITTEE FOR THE SYSTEMATIC INVESTIGA-
TION OF HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA.
This Committee has continued to meet with regularity on Tuesday
evenings, at the rooms of the Society, during the winter months.
Its efforts have been mainly directed towards obtaining thought-
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. {May, 1894.
transference from the hypnotiser to his subject, effecting alterations
by verbal suggestions in the pulse of a hypnotised subject, and the
development of sub-conscious reckoning.
The supply of subjects has not been as extensive as the Committee
could desire, and up to the present, their experiments have been con-
fined to nine persons, of whom five were paid subjects. As to success
in the series of experiments first indicated, the Committee cannot yet
speak with any assurance. Their experiments, which have been
numerous and conducted with all care, have usually taken this form.
Ten pieces of paper, on which were written numerals from 0 to 9
respectively, were prepared. Of these, one was drawn at haphazard
by a member of the Committee and was handed to the operator, who,
concentrating his attention thereon, endeavoured to transfer the idea
of its value to the subject. As a rule the ratio of successes to failures
did not reach the average (one in ten trials) that might have been
produced by chance, save in a particular series of experiments carried
out with a paid subject, at a meeting on November 28+^11, which
experiments have already been referred to in the Journal for February
last. In all cases agent and percipient were in the same room,
though no contact existed between them.
In respect to alterations effected l)y suggestion, during hypnosis, in
the force and rapidity of the heart's action, much interesting evidence
has been collected. In all cases sphygmographic tracings of the radial
pulse have been taken, simultaneously with the counting of the pulse
by another observer : the subject throughout sitting quietly in his
chair at the table with his arm outstretched and resting thereon, to
facilitate the taking of tracings. As being fairly typical of these
experiments, the following may be recorded, which was carried out
with a paid subject on February 27th, last. The pulse before hypnosis,
and in the alienee of any suggestion, was 72 per minute. During,
hypnosis he was told that he was engaged in an exciting dancing com-
petition, and that his heart was beating furiously. The tracing was
taken after such suggestion had been continued for two minutes,
and it showed marked increase in both tidal and dicrotic waves,
while the pulse rate had risen to 102 per minute. Quieting
suggestion was then employed, until the heart's action had calmed
down, as it speedily did, and then the subject Avas depressed by
gloomy thoughts of debt, misfortune and hunger, suggested by the
operator. The pulse then fell to 62 per minute, while the diminished
upstroke and the complete absence of secondary waves are most
marked features in the tracing taken at the time of counting the pulse.
Hitherto the effort to modify the heart's action by verbal suggestion
confined only to the pulse itself has not met with success, and
May, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 249
to produce any evident change it has been necessary to supplement
this with further suggestions of a more or less dramatic character.
In regard to sub-conscious reckoning, a certain amount of interest-
ing evidence has been collected. On April 3rd, a subject, having
repeated a doggerel rhyme of four lines, suggested to him by a
member of the Committee immediately before hypnosis, was "sent to
sleep.'' He was then told that immediately on awakening he would at
once read aloud continuously from a journal placed before him, and
would at the same time write down with a pencil, placed between the
fingers of his right hand, the number of times a certain letter selected
by the Committee occurred in the verse. The latter, it may be said,
contained 23 words with a total of 81 letters. The first seven
experiments resulted thus :
—
No. of Letter No. cf times No. written Time from awak
Experiment. selected. it occurred. by subject. ing till writing.
1 E 10 17 1\ minutes.
2 B 4 4 1\ minutes.
3 0 4 5 30 seconds.
4 J 13 9 30 seconds.
5 L 5 5 10 seconds.
6 Y o
O 4 40 seconds.
7 A 8 7 70 seconds.
Summary : —2 experiments were correct
;
3 were nearly so—in each case an error of only one in the
counting ;
in 2 there was a considerable error in the counting.
The foregoing may serve as a short sketch of the nature of the
work hitherto undertaken by the Committee, but they hope to be able
to add further details of interest later on. "With this in view, they
again appeal to members of the Society Avho may be able to place at
their disposal such subjects as are likely to be of service, either by
being known to be hypnotisable, or as having shown any aptitude for
telepathic receptivity. Any information will be gladly received by
the Committee, and jnay be sent to Mr. G. A. Smith, at the rooms of
the Society, 19, Buckingham Street, Strand, W.C.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L.973 A^V^ Dream.
Received through the American Branch.
A second-hand account of the following case was received by Dr.
Hodgson from Miss L. Whiting, in May, 1891. The percipient prefera
that her name should not be printed.
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mav, 1894.
Miss Whiting writes :
—
Hotel Brunswick, May 27tli, 1891.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—Miss tells me the following, and gives her
permission to my relating it to you. I enclose her card.
In February last, her mother, living in N. H., died suddenly one night
between nine and ten, of lieart-disease. Her last words to a daughter-
in-law present were : "Don't cry, don't feel badly, you have done everything
you could for me."
That same night, Miss was here at the Brunswick, the guest of the
, and they were out at some entertainment in the evening. They
returned, and Miss retired about eleven and immediately had a
vivid dream that her mother came to her, embraced her fervently, and said :
" Don't cry, don't feel badly, you have done everything you could for me."
The impi-ession was so vivid—she felt the touch—heard the tones—that she
slept little, and the next nKjrning told Mrs. that she must go and visit
her mother—that she was sure she was ill and wanted her, and almost while
they were talking of it, the telegram announcing her mother's death came.
When Miss reached the place, she told her sister-in-law the words of
the dream before the sister-in-law had told her what their mother actually
said, and the lady who was present with the dying woman was startled at
the coincidence of the actual last words of the dream.
Miss will reply to any question if you wish.
Lilian Whiting.
Some time later, Dr. Hodgson obtained an account of the incident
from the percipient herself, who writes as follows :
—
March 30th, 1892.
Dear Sir,—Your letter dated March 25th, has just reached me, and I
hasten to say that this is the first communication that I have received from
you. Miss Whiting's account of my dream must in some way have been lost
in the mail. I have no doubt but that it was quite accurate. However, to
avoid giving you more trouble, I will just write it out briefly. I was visiting
friends fifty miles away from my mother's home. I had not seen her for
some weeks, and I did not know that she had been having attacks of a heart
trouble, which caused her death. She had always been strong and well, with
the exception of rlieumatism, and the thought of her dying had never
entered my mind. I retired at eleven o'clock, and fell asleep immediately,
and as soon as I slept, my mother came to me in a. dream ;
she was dressed
in black and looked very young. She put her arms around me and said :
"Do not cry, you have done everything that you could for nie." This she
repeated several times ; then I awoke, disturbed and troubled, with tears on
my face.
In the morning I told my friends that I was troubled about my mother
because of a vivid dream. In two hours the telegram came, saying that she
was dead. I went immediately, and before I was told anything about the
manner of her death, I told my dream. My sister-in-law said: "Why
those were mother's dying words." She was taken ill at nine o'clock in the
evening, and died at ten. She looked at my sister and said :
" Do not cry,
May, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 251
you have done everything that you could for luc, but I am dying," and with
these words she was gone.
If I had dreamed this after I knew that slie was dead, I should not
have been surprised, but as it is, it seems to me wonderful, and I can but
feel that she was permitted to come, in order to prepare lue a little for the
shock.
The following corroborative notes from Miss 's sister-in-law
and the friend with whom she was staying at the time of her mother's
death were afterwards received.
March 2mh, 1893.
The account that my sister, Miss ,
gave of mother's dying words, and
those which mother spoke to her in her dream as being the same is (juite
correct. Miss arrived the day after mother died, and before I told her
of her last words she told me of her dream.
Ma.rch 30th, 1893.
Miss was visiting me at the time of her mother's death, and at
breakfast, before the telegram came, she spoke of having had a vivid dream
of her mother.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[2'Ae Editor is not responsible jor opimons expressed by Correspondents.]
MR. BARKWORTH AND "THE UNTHINKABLE."
{To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir,—Perhaps the simplest and most useful form of reply to Mr. Bark-
worth's friendly remonstrance in the April number is to indicate chiefly our
points of agreement. The vivacity of his attack has secured him many
answers, and his ability enables him to make an ingenious defence of his
position, but despite its bulwarks of common sense the groundwork of
gnosticism on which it is based suthces, as I think, to render it untenable.
It would be a strong position oidy if we could be sure that its occupants
knew a great deal about the universe, but, to those of us who are conscious
above all things of ignorance, any fortification based on assured dogmatism
is apt to appear inherently feeble.
By "dogmatism " or " gnosticism " I mean nothing offensive ;
I mean
simply the attitude which is ready to encounter individual phenomena with
general propositions, the attitude which either upholds or denies asserted
events on the grounds of the iitness of things, or the laws of Nature, or
general axioms, or revealed truth.
There were things in my former letter, about bank-notes for instance,
which were " wrote sarkastical," but there shall be nothing but seriousness
in this. I admit that the so-called value (really rar it ij) of an " apport
"
might in some cases add to the prima facie strength of evidence concerning
it ;
as, for instance, if a chemist, asserting that he could make diamonds,
were to produce one of the size of a cocoanut ; but in a general way the
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1894.
bank-note form of argument strikes me as not only irritating but feeble, and
in no case ought the fact that a chemist did not produce cocoanut diamonds,
nor anything bigger than a loin's head, to cause us to shut our ears to the
account of his process, and keep them shut until we are satisfied with the
size of his result.
On another point also I am able to agree with, or even go beyond, Mr.
Barkworth ;
for, whereas he considers it " dangerous" to say "that what is
true in mathematics is false in physics," I myself should regard such an
assertion as merely self-contradictory and absurd. This acquiescence
perhaps relieves me from further following up certain illustrations on which
it is not likely that sane people really disagree. So we come at once to the
root of the matter under discussion.
The quotation made on p. 235 from " The Experiences of Mr. Stainton
Moses" goes to show, (1) that to the persons present in a certain room sounds
occurred as if a bell originally outside the room had entered the room. (So
far I am disposed to accept the record absolutely.) (2) That when light was
restored a bell was found on the table. (This also is most probably true,
but it requires more careful witness than a statement concerning sounds,
because, after the sounds, the presence of an actual bell would be liable
to bo inferred in subsequent memory, perhaps without sufficiently cautious
contemporary scrutiny.) (3) That the sitters believed the bell to have been in
another room immediately before the sitting. (I fully accept the belief, but
concerning the actual physical fact it is necessary to be more cautious, for it
is peculiarly difficult to secure detinite evidence concerning the previous
locality of an object not previously decided upon for experiment.) (4) That
the sitters felt assured that the door of their room was not opened during
the entry of the bell, because the hall outside was brightly illuminated by
gas.
Now sujjpose, for the sake of argument, that the evidence was thoroughly
good for the objective presence of a bell («) outside the room initially, and
{h) inside the room finally, together with (c) a guarantee of some kind
(not easily obtained) that it was the same bell, and not a mere conjuring
substitution ;
suppose in other words that the event occurred among serious
investigators, as events occur in a laboratory : what is to be our attitude ?
It is here that I find myself differing from Mr. Barkworth. Scepticism
is necessary and entirely legitimate ;
proof of such an occurrence must be
of the strongest if it is to carry conviction ; but Mr. Barkworth s attitude
I venture to think is rather dogmatic than truly sceptical. Instead of
becoming critical he becomes ejaculatory :—impossible, preposterous, more
than miraculous, unthinkable, and so on. But, as Mr. Andrew Lang says,
how is it that these stories come to be told? Eliminating conscious
swindling—and the Moses records do, as it seems to me, fairly eliminate it-
there is something to be explained ; and the mind will not rest satisfied with
a course of interjections.
It would appear that Mr. Barkworth would feel less vigorously positive
on the subject of the asserted phenomena, if he could see some physical or
" thinkable " way by which they might be achieved. But there is nearly
always some thinkable way of doing anything, and in the present instance of
May, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 253
the ringing bell it is very simple, t'r.., this : —Turn the hall gas out, open
the door quietly, carry in the bell ringing loudly to cover any noise, go out,
shut the door, and light the hall gas again.
Mr. Barkwortli may here object that I am giving up my attitude of
conceivable receptivity to " the miraculous " and " the unthinkable," but it
is not so. Whenever I am convinced of the real occurrence of an event
which seems to me either miraculous (in the popular loose sense of the
word) or unthinkable, I must at once set about trying to contemplate it, so
as to make it thinkable ; for I feel, so to say, sure that no real event of
which we can become cognisant must for ever remain beyond the grasp of
our enlarged faculties, while I am also deeply convinced that to my present
faculties a vast number of occurrences, if by any imaginable process I could
become aware of them, would seem entirely miraculous and unthinkable,
although at the same time they are perfectly and profoundly real.
Mr. Barkworth seems determined that in the case under discussion the bell
shall have passed through the wall, but I see no evidence whatever that the
bell did pass through the wall. My contention, therefore, is a double one :
(1) That there is no clear evidence of anything certainly in the strongest
sense "unthinkable" in the Moses records, though there are plenty of
things extremely improbable ; and (2) that whenever such evidence is forth-
coming it will be our duty to investigate, and if necessary accept it, however
much it may stretch and enlarge our grasp of the universe as based upon
past experience.
Mr. Barkworth goes on to ask mo whether I demand proof that bells can
not pass through walls or that eggs do not grow on trees ? I reply, no,
certainly not ! The burden of proof of such events rests entirely with their
assertors. It is one thing to be willing to receive evidence on any individual
positive proposition, it is another to demand proof of a universal negative. Such
proofs are to me I confess unthinkable, and creeds based upon them are
liable to be somewhat frail since a single positive instance may suffice to
shatter them.
Briefly, then, it amounts to about this. I hold the same views concerning
physical facts that he does, until evidence to the contrary is forthcoming.
But when such evidence does appear, or make a reasonable show of
appearing, I am willing even to face the risk of being deceived in order to
scrutinise it as far as possible without prejudgment; whereas (as I under-
stand him) Mr. Barkworth would resolutely run the risk even of rejecting
truth rather than face the chance of being misled by error. Both
attitudes are reasonable, and his is undoubtedly the safer in the light of
ordinary common sense and the bulk of the experience of mankind. It is
with no light heart that a student of science sets himself to face the risk of
being deceived : the risk looms indeed with peculiar ghastliness before him ;
nor would he ever so set himself were it not that the other alternative, the
dread of rejecting truth, strikes with a still deadlier chill. There is no
antagonism between us, there can be no ultimate antagonism between
friends of truth, there is but a difference in the route chosen by which we
hope to attain to the same end. We are not even on diff'erent roads, we are
walking on |the beach of the same eternal sea, but while one prefers the
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1894.
security of an ancient embankment, the other gropes along the sometimes
muddy but sometimes shell-besprinkled sand.—Yours faithfully,
Oliver J. Lodge,
Liverpool, April 15th, 1894.
( To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir,—Your correspondent, Mr. Thomas Barkworth, states the usual
" common-sense " view of the case very well ; and he backs his statement
by quotations from Locke, and refers to passages from Kant which certainly
support his views. I cannot, however, resist breaking a lance on Professor
Lodge's side, although I confess my sympathies are, on the whole, with
Mr. Barkworth.
The question, I take it, turns on the conceivability or inconceivability of
Mr. Barkworth's propositions ; that the less does not contain the greater ;
that two bodies cannot occupy the same space at the same time ;
and that
matter cannot pass through matter. Mr. Barkworth argues from the point
of view of molar phenomena ;
because, he virtually says, I cannot imagine
two bricks interpenetrating each other, therefore,', no two objects ever inter-
penetrate each other. It is well-known that two gases can interpenetrate
each other without increase of volume. All right, says Mr. Barkworth ;
that is because gases are made up, so to speak, of a large number of small
bricks placed at a great distance apart, and there is plenty of room in the
interstices of the tirst gas for the bricks, or to use the usual name, mole-
cules, of the other. Mr. Barkworth evidently extends the same explana-
tion to the contraction produced on mixing two liquids. And he doubtless
would have had the same conception if he had been brought face to face
with the penetration of two solids. But let him consider this case, not as
a convhicing proof of the incorrectness of his ideas, but merely as one which
may somewhat shake his cock-sureness.
The metal sodium is of such a density that 1 gram occupies I'OIS cubic
centimetres at ordinary temperature ; the element oxygen at -200 degrees is
of such a density that 1 gram occupies 0-807 cubic centimetres. Now these
two elements combine in such proportion that 4G grams of sodium occupying
46-7 cubic centimetres unites with 16 grams of oxygen, occupying 12-9 cubic
centimetres. The sum is 59' 6 cubic centimetres. But 62 grams of the
compound occupies only 21-7 cubic centimetres. Is this not interpenetra-
tion of matter? Where are the odd 37-9 cubic centimetres? Mr. Bark-
worth would answer, the sodium and the liquid oxygen are both porous, and
the pores in one are occupied by the matter of the other. Are they ? If so,
surely some proof should exist of the pores. One plan of diminishing the
volume of a substance is by compressing it ;
another is by lowering the
temperature. Now these methods, applied to sodium and to liquid oxygen,
produce a minute decrease in volume ;
but they are wholly unable to account
for the enormous disappearance of 37-9 cubic centimetres out of 59-6.
I have chosen this one simple instance to show Mr Barkworth that
chemists and physicists are led to inquire whether the "common-sense"
view is always to be trusted. Some of us take the view that what we call
matter is merely one of the factors of energy ;
and regard it as conceivable
Mav, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 255
that if kinetic energy could be converted wholly into radiant energy, the
matter would cease to exist. True, this has never been done ; but one
form of energy is convertible into others.
In fact, Sir, the whole affair is a mystery. We are far from fathoming
natural phenomena ; and it is this mystery which has led one, and no
doubt has led others to think that, while tending to maintain extreme
scepticism regarding such revelations as those which have raised this discus-
sion, it is worth while to chronicle and compare them, in tlie hope that
eventually some way may be found which will explain them psychologically
or jihysically, and will cause them to lit in with the system of " normal
"
events which we are accustomed to deal with. —I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
W. Ramsay.
{To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.)
Sir, —May I be allowed to make one or two remarks on a few of the
criticisms — lately appearing in the Journal — of Mr. Stainton Moses'
mediumship ? Mr. Barkworth, who was the first to enter the field, is to be
congratulated on possessing the gift of clairvoyance or second sight in so
uncommon a degree that he is able—not having ever been present—to ex-
plain for us the nature and causes of the various plienoniena that took place
at our seances much more lucidly than we could ever hope to do ourselves.
Still, I fear I must adhere to my own opinion as to the nature of these same
pheno:nena, and perliaps Mr. Barkworth may be induced to regard this
further evidence of " moral weakness " on my part more leniently, when I
remind him that, at the seances in question, I was present and he was not.
To turn to Mr. Lang's letter—I should like to set his mind at ease as
regards the "distinguished composer story." I agree with him that it might
have been considered suspicious, not to say "awkward"—if taken as an
incident standing alone—had tlie name in question been Mendelssohn ; but
it wasn't. On the occasion of that incident, I did not look round on being
told of the column of light behind me. Having learnt by previous ex-
perience that I could not see subjective lights, I never looked for them, as I
knew it was useless. I still regard the occurrence as a fair proof of spirit
identity,as the signature could not have been written by Mr. Moses. My hand
never left the paper during the sitting, and between Mr. Moses and myself was
a large table nearly five feet in breadth. Either I must have written the
message (a suggestion which might possibly be utilised), or it must have
been the work of some unseen agency. In any case it was curious that the
photograph selected by the medium corresponded witli the signature on my
paper, unless, of course—to amplify my previous suggestion—the whole thing
was an elaborate but somewhat pointless joke, prearranged by Mr. Moses
and myself, for the purpose of hoodwinking the remaining sitters. In that
case, I wonder who Mr. Moses' accomplice was before I joined the circle.
Concerning the appearance upon the scene of scent, pearls, stones, etc.,
if Mr. Moses himself performed these feats, he ought certainly to have
ranked as one of the greatest masters of conjuring and sleight-of-hand the
world has yet seen. It occurs to one to wonder where and when he acquired
his marvellous skill, and why he didn't make his fortune by it, instead of
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May. 1894.
frittering away his talents on the profitless befooling of one or two of his
oldest and most intimate friends. I should like to submit a few reasons
which ought to convince any moderately "open mind," how next door to
impossible it was for Mr. Moses to " work " the manifestations himself.
Firstly, it was not an uncommon thing for pearl and coral beads to be
scattered about the room when we were not holding a stance, and in broad
day-light. None of us could possibly tell where these things came from—
but it'was perfectly patent that no one present had any hand in their
production.
Secondly, when various ;i,rticles were brought durmg a seance, the
medium's hands were frequently held on both sides, also those of the rest
of the sitters ;
results were never affected thereby.
Thirdly, the same things happened when the medium was in a deep
trance, and unconscious of everything going on around him ;
at such times
'
we nearly always had a lighted candle upon the table, and, as I have
remarked before, we were quite able to distinguish the medium's hands and
face Any movement of his would have been instantly perceived.
Fourthly, various articles were often placed upon the table during a
seance, which same articles wc had seen in an adjoining room before we left
it Mr. Moses frequently entered the seance room first, so what I suppose
would be considered the natural inference, viz : that he brought them in
with him, falls to the ground.
Lastly, as showing that Mr. Moses' own mediumship was not absolutely
essential to the production of phenomena of this kind, I may mention that,
sittino- with two friends of my own—one mediumistic, the other, like myself,
not -similar manifestations have taken place in our presence, on more than
one occasion, and under stringent test conditions. I refer more particularly
to the brint'ing of various articles into a room when the doors were bolted,
the windows'" barred, and all means of ingress or egress consequently
cut off As such things have happened other than through Mr. Moses' in-
strumentality, why not through his ?. The suggestion of his employing
fraudulent means to produce the various phenomena seems puerile and
irrational-a despairing attempt to explain what admits of one satisfactory
explanation only : and unfortunately that is the one that many people don't
want, and won't have. Hinc iUce lachrymce. In all alleged cases of
fraud, when there is no evidence except of a circumstantial nature, it has
always been the custom of the Law to look for a motive, and if possible to
find it
•
but in this case, those most sceptical on the subject of Mr. Moses'
mediumship have signally failed to produce one that is either adequate or
oven reasonably probable. I am curious to know whether some of the ex-
planatory theories that have been put forward in this connection lately would
be' seriously considered as either logical, sound, or even sensible, were their
promulgators dealing with any subject other than Spiritualism. I think not
:
still it is a pleasure to read Professor Lodge's writings, and to see that the
subject can be approached in a serious scientific spirit, even by a sceptic.
Would there were more sceptics like him.—Faithfully yours,
Charlton T. SpfiER.
No. CXI.—Vol. VI. Jl-NK, 1S04.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Xew Associates
Meeting of tlie Council . . . . ...
General Meetins
Obituary .
—
Eoden Noel .
.
The Anglo-French P.-<ychological Society..
Ca.ses received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
De Brath, Stanley, c/o H. S. King & Co., 45, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Duncan, Mrs. A.M. A., 3, Victorian Club, 30a, Sackville-st., London, W.
Geach, Mrs. Guichard, 2, Edinburgh-ter., Victoria-rd, Kensington,"\V.
Heard, Richard, 90, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Murray, Professor Geo. G. Aime, The University, GLLSgow, N. B.
PuRDiE, Mrs., 27, Palace-court, London, W.
Stapley, Richard, 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stapley, Mrs., 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Coleman, Miss Anne C, Lebanon, Pennsylvania.
Cokyell, V. M., 46, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Martin, Mrs. Ejima H., Worcester, Mass.
McIntosh, Herbert, 537, Massachusetts-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Miles, Harry D., M.D., 217, East Brigham-street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Pettit, Mi5S Edith, Idlewild, Media, Pennsylvania.
Reid, Miss Estelle, 38, East 30-street, New York, N.Y.
Royce, Mrs. Charles H., 258, W. 75-street, New York, N.Y.
Sercombe, p. H., 58, Sentinel-building, Milwaukee, Wis. ,
Symonds, Brandreth, M.D., 128, W. 59-street, New York, N.Y.
TouzALiN, Mrs. A. E., P.O. Box, 113, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Rooms of the Society
on June 8th, Professor H. Sidgwick in the chair. There were also
present : Dr. A. W. Barrett, and ]\Iessrs. W. Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore, S. C. Scott, H. Arthur Smith, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and .signed as correct.
PAGE
.. 257
.. 257
.. 258
. . 262
.. 263
.. 264
.. 265
258 Journal of Society for Psychiccd Research. [Junk, 1894.
One new Member and seven new Associates were elected. The election
of eleven new Associates of the American Branch was recorded,
The names and addresses are given above.
Tlie Council recorded with regret the decease of the Hon. Roden
Noel, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Society, and who had belonged
to it almost from its commencement.
At his request the name of Mr. Frank H. Matthews was trans-
ferred from the list of Members to that of Associates.
Several presents to the Library were reported, for which votes of
thanks were accorded to the donors.
Other matters of business having been attended to, the next
Meeting of the Council was fixed for July 13th, at the Westminster
Town Hall, at 3 p.m., previous to the General Meeting at 4 o'clock.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 66th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall on Friday, June 8th, at 8.30 p.m. ;
Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
The Chairman, in opening the proceedings, communicated the fact
that a legacy of £3,000 had been left by the late Dr. Myers to the
President of the S.P.R. for the time being, in trust for the purposes of
the Society. The money—amounting after payment of legacy duty to
£2,700 —was now invested, and the income would be used in defray-
ing the expenses of the Society's investigations. He said that this
news would not come as a surprise to those Avho knew the unfailing
interest which Dr. Myers had always taken in tlieir work, and the
extent to which he had spent not only his time and thought, but also
when occasion arose, his private means, for the furtherance of that
work ; and it would be a source of satisfaction to them that the
increase in stability which the Society thus gained, and the enlarge-
ment of its means for carrying on its researches, should be associated
with his memory.
" Miss X." then read a paper on " The Apparent Sources of Super-
normal Experiences.'' She proposed to deal with the question ex-
clusively fronr "the subject's point of view"; and also to confine
herself to purely spontaneous experiences, in order to exclude the
element of self-consciousness introduced by experiment. At the same
time, it should be borne in mind that the inevitable condition of
surprise, attaching to spontaneous experiences, in some sort disqualified
the subject for exact observation.
She then proceeded to distinguish, and illustrate by carefully
recorded and attested examples from her own experience, the following
three kinds or stages of supernormal messages.
June, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 259
1. The impulse to deliver a statement which seems to owe its
genesis to something apart from one's own consciousness, to be in-
dependent of reason or memory, perhaps analogous to the messages of
clairaudience or automatic writing, but having no corresponding sense
impression.
2. The externalisation of an idea, a symbolic presentation of an
impression consciously or sub-consciously made,
3. A definite sense hallucination, presenting some fact sub-con-
sciously acquired by thought-transference, clairvoyance or other means.
As an example of (1) she narrated the following experience :
" I was recovering from recent illness, and had spent the whole of a July
morning lying on a long chair in the garden. I could not move without
help, and was therefore incapacitated from going back to the house and
afterwards forgetting I had done so. About 12 o'clock, a friend, calling at the
house, came through the drawing-room window into the garden to talk to me.
When she returned to the house, a book which she had left in the hall was
not to be found, and, after a prolonged hunt in every likely place, she, with
another friend, came back to the garden to see whether she could have left
it near me. On hearing their story, I at once remarked, '
The book is on
the blue-room bed.' The statement seemed wildly improbable, as tlie room
in question was not in use, and was seldom entered, even by the servants.
There, nevertheless, on the bed, the book was found. Some workmen had
come into the house during the morning, bringing a number of pictures and
books to be taken care of for a short time ; and these, for safety, had been
placed in the disused room, the book lying on the hall table having been
accidentally included with the new arrivals."
" Miss X." pointed out that it would be far-fetched to regard this
experience as telepathic, since the book was probably removed by the
workman unconsciously, and no one in the house had seen its removal
;
while, again, the impression was not in any literal sense clairvoyant,
as there was no conscious picture in her mind ; —it merely " came into
her head " to utter the words quoted.
To illustrate the second class, she gave two interesting cases of the
visions of things " in the surroundings"—as a professed medium would
express it—of strangers newly introduced to her : in which the effort
made by her to "grasp the stranger's individuality" was assisted by a
" picture forming itself in the back-ground of the stranger," suggesting
some indication of a " dominant factor in his life or experience." Tn
the second of these cases she had seen a figure in close proximity to a
new acquaintance, similar to a figure seen some weeks later l^y a
clairvoyant, as standing near the same person. In discussing this case,
" Miss X." observed that she had no means of deciding between the
telepathic and the spiritualistic interpretation, though personally
inclined to the former. She could find no subjective difference be-
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1894,
tween the visualisation of an idea and a phantasm of the dead : though
she found it possible to distinguish between a vision of a living friend ,
and that of one who had passed away,—"the living phantasm brings
with it some hints of its surroundings, of the things with which it has
some real relation, the dead seems to he abstracted from any surround-
ino-s whatever." This last distinction she illustrated by a recent
experience. There Avas an old friend, an accomplished musician, whom
she was accustomed to visualise at his piano or organ, and among the
surroundings of a seaside home. On the 9th of May last, his image
came l)efore her as usual, but without the usual accompaniments,—it
bore no relation to anything else, and the sense of abstraction was
very intense. She remarked to a friend that she knew he was dead,
and entered the impression in her diary : the next day brought the sad
news he had died about three hours before. She had heard a few
days liefore that he was getting old and feeble, but nothing more
alarming.
The distinctions she had drawn between different kinds of super-
normal messages were sometimes difficult to apply. She described in
some detail a complicated experience which seemed to contain all the
three elements which she had tried to distinguish.
She dwelt on the difficulty of distinguishing the sources of suclx
messages, but she stated as the conclusions drawn from long
experience, and seven years' very careful observation,
(1) that she found it quite impossible to mistake the intention of
any figure which appeared to her at the moment of death :
(2) that when the glimpse had been more than momentary, she
had never (she believed), even in the case of strangers, mistaken a
vision of a deceased person for that of one still living.
Still, as she had said, the same "impression of abstractedness,"
characteristic of a phantasm of the dead, was also found in pictures
which she was disposed to regard as " externalisations of an idea."
But such pictures might also appear in (a) surroundings distant in
time and space, and so be difficult to distinguish from clairvoyance-
except by objective tests ; or (b) the figures seen might appear in
relation to the seer's surroundings, in which case a hallucinatory
figure might be mistaken for a real person. Moreover, in all sub-
jective analysis and observation of this kind, there were two constantly
recurring difficulties—the element of surprise and the element of
expectation.
In conclusion, she said that there was one difficulty of which she
knew nothing, —the alleged danger to health of mind or body. Her
experiences were never .so clear or so abundant as when she was in
entire liealth,
June, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 261
In the discussion that followed
Mr. F. W. Hayes asked questions with regard to the particular
experiences described, which led to further explanations from " Miss X."
Mr. Maitland said thatthe subject was capable of being treated
at £rreat length. The Hrst axiom to be laid down was that there was
no warrant for limiting the tenuity of any substance that may serve
as a vehicle for mental force. He distinguished " asti-al " phantoms from
astral realities, and held that " ghosts of past events" might be seen
in the astral light. This had, he held, occurred in one of " Miss X.'s
"
experiences. In another case memory had been read, as had
happened in his own experience. There was a great variety of orders
of entities in the astral fluid ;
among these he mentioned " reflexes
"
of the seer himself, dehris of disintegrating souls—which often perplex
the spiritualists
—" ideas of the air " and others. Only an adept after
years of training could distinguish the true ray from the false, the
celestial from the astral.
The Chairman, in expressing the thanks of the meeting to Miss
X., remarked that it was rare to find the capacity for supernormal
perception combined with the power of self-observation and analysis,
the carefulness and promptitude in recording experiences, and the
appreciation of the importance of different kinds of evidence, which
" Miss X.'s " paper showed.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then spoke on " The Evidence for Continued
Identity contained in Mr. W. S. Moses' Automatic Script."
The speaker began by recapitulating the reasons which in his
opinion fully established the genuine automaticity of the messages, and
the complete good faith of Mr. Moses' own comments thereon. Turn-
ing to the evidence of the identity of the communicating intelligences,
the messages might be arranged in four groups. (1) In the hrst group
might be placed those messages that contained facts, which, from their
recency or obscurity, were probably unknown to Mr. Moses and to all
other persons present. The cases of Abraham Florentine, of the Jones
children, and one or two others, were described under this heading.
(2) Next came messages containing facts wliich might conceivably
have been previously learnt by Mr. Moses, but which, if we take his
word for it, had not so been learnt. There was here the difliculty due
to the possibility of subliminal perception and memory ; but cases were
given in which such an explanation seemed extremely improbable.
(3) Next came a class of cases resembling the last except on this point
—that the " controls " seem to have less freshness and reality, and tlie
facts given were of the nature of extracts from books. These extracts
were sometimes provably unknown to Mr. Moses, and the manner in
which they were given suggested clairvoyance rather than real com-
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research [Jqne, 1894.
miuiication from the departed. Mr. Moses had himself been fully
aware of this difference of quality ; and the questions thus suggested
were among the gravest with which the problem of identity was beset.
He (the speaker) ventured to say that the time would come when the
hypothesis of conscious fraud or of self-delusion would fall into the
background as regards these signed messages and others like them, and
when even the difficulty of subliminal memory would be met by
j udicious experiment : but the possibility of a clairvoyant acquisition of
knowledge, unconsciously by the automatist himself, or consciously by
personating spirits, would long continue a stumbling-block. (4) The
existence of this difficulty gave an additional interest to a class of
messages technically lowest in evidential value ; those, namely, where
the evidence depended on ethical or intellectual resemblances—on the
intensity of characterisation displayed by the alleged spirit. Indefin-
able resemblances of mind and character might produce strong sub-
jective conviction ; and the conclusion must perhaps be that for full
satisfaction we ought to desire in the messages a combination of the
objective and the subjective lines of evidence—first of all the statement
of verifiable facts known, if possible, to the deceased alone, or at any rate
to the deceased but not to the automatist ; and then that indefinite
but profoundly recognisable character which made here and now for
each of us the essential difference between one friend and another. In
many of Mr. Moses' cases such combination did to a great extent exist
;
and on the whole no series of signed messages was at once equally full
and equally exempt from error with that with which Mr. Moses had
been favoured for so many successive years.
OBITUARY.
RODEN NOEL.
We record, with deep regret, the sudden death of the Hon. Roden
Noel, who has been a Vice-President of this Society almost from its
foundation. He died of heart-disease at Mayence, on Saturday, May
26th, at the age of 59.
This premature close of a life devoted to " liigh thinking " and
ardent literary work will affect a larger circle than his personal friends
with a sense of irreparable loss : since, though lie never gained the eai'
of the general public, he found " fit audience though few " among
those who value originality and intensity of poetic thought and feeling,
even when their expression shows technical inequalities and defects.
No poet of our time has presented more impressively, on the one hand,
the delight of natural l^eauty and of the physical life in which man feels
himself at one with nature j
and, on the other hand, the painfulness of
June, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 263
the discord continually felt between the order of the physical world
and the profound est human yearnings and aspirations. This sense
of the " riddle of the painful earth" was expressed by him, with the
intensity of pathos given by personal bereavement, in " A Little
Child's Monument" (1881); and, later, with unsurpassed force, in
"A Modern Faust" (1888); and the same bent of thought and
feeling led him to give a cordial welcome to our investigations.
Indeed, almost contemporaneously with the foundation of the iS.P.E,.
(1882) he published his " Philosophy of Immortality," in which
materialism is combated partly by speculative arguments, partly on the
basis of the evidence furnished by spiritistic phenomena. Later—in
1886 —he defended his views in several numbers of this Journal
(Vol. II., pp. 158^ 195, 269) with characteristic vigour, directness,
and candour. H. S.
THE ANGLO-FRENCH PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The subscription to this society, announced in the May Journal as
lOf. or 8s. per annum, has, as I now lind, been fixed by the revised
rules at 20f. or 16s. per annum. T have received about a dozen appli-
cations for membership, and should be glad to receive more. Candidates
will be informed when an election takes place, and to whom their
subscription should then be sent.
Lady Caithness has addressed a letter to " Light," describing the
moral and religious elevation which she regards—and we shall none of
us dispute this —as the ultimate goal towards winch all discoveries in
this new field of science ought to tend. " The Spiritualism I adA-ocate,"
Lady Caithness emphatically says, " is that of the Higher Life."
This is the kind of Sinritualism to whicli 1 have long dedicated niy life,
and to advance which I devote all I am able to dispose of in the publication
of books, both in French and English, of my monthly review, " L'Aurore
du Jour Nouveau," and in weekly meetiiigs at my house, both for free public
lectures and for private instruction and mutual improvement. I am also
most happy to be able to add that my dear son is animated by precisely the
same desire for the advancement of this, the higher Spiritualism.
It was while conversing on this subject with the friends mentioned in the
article in "Light," namely Mr. F. W. H. Myers and Professor Charles
Richet, that I learnt their vieM's on the subject, and that in their superior
experience they considered well authenticated phenomena to be necessary
to convince outsiders of the spiritual side of our mysterious and comjJex
nature, which they can better be brought to believe in and understand by
material proof, through tlioir outer physical senses.
In my desire to render every possible aid to the furtherance of the holy
cause I have so much at heart, and have received the mission to promulgate,
I at once decided that while I continued to pursue the main branch of the
subject, namely, its religious aspect, I would unite with them in their more
264 Journal of Society for Psychical BesearcL [Junk, iso4.
practical views and allow them to conduct their investigations scientifically
according to their own acquired knowledge.
There will, therefore, be different brandies in the Society, and the one
under my especial direction will be that of the study for the attainment of
the more spiritual nature which is the key to the mysteries of the Higher
Life, for it enables us to better our condition in this life, and bring the
" kingdom of heaven upon earth," while ennobling our lives in view of our
future development in the life to come.
Makie Caithness db Pojiak.
For myself I will add that, while the constitution of our Society
precludes any such corporate expression of ethical or religious views as
may interfere with the complete catholicity of its scientific stand-point,
I think that most of my friends are, like myself, in full sympathy with
the belief which Lady Caithness has so often and so earnestly expressed,
that a conviction on such problems as we discuss, even when gained by
scientific methods alone, ought to affect, not only a man's scientific
beliefs, but his conduct, his character, and the whole structure and sub-
stance (so to say) of his spiritual being.
F. W. H. Myers.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
MCI. 87. Auditory. (Received through the American Branch.)
The newspaper account printed below was first received by the Rev.
M. T. Savage from Mr. Lyman P. Alden, Superintendent of the Rose
Orphan Home, Terre Haute, Ind., accompanied by the following
statement :
—
Terre Haute, Ind., March 18th, 1892.
I used to live in Coldwater. Tlie President of the bank is my cousin
by marriage. The bank was robbed about a month smce of §20,000 by the
blowing up of the safe with dynamite.
v. <
The S. P. Williams spoken of lives at Lhua, Ind., thirty miles distant
from C. He owns a bank there as well as the stock mentioned iii the C. Bk
He is thoroughly reliable and, if you choose to investigate it, would
doubtless willingly state the facts to y<m.
Lyman P. Alden.
The account was signed later by Mr. Williams, at Dr. Hodgson's
request.
From the Coldwater, Mich. liejpuUkan of March Wth, 1892.
S P Williams, a large stockholder in the Coldwater National Bank,
lives at Lima, Ind. While asleep at his home during the night upon which
the bank was robbed, he awoke under the impression that he had been
startled by a heavy explosion. So vivid was tlie impression left that he got
up, dressed himself, and walked all through the business portion of Lima
looking for evidences of a big explosion. Of course he found none, and
later ascertained that he awoke at the same time at which the vault in the
Coldwater bank was blown open.—I>eiro('iiVe«'s.
The above statement is correct.—S. P. Williams. '
.
Junk, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 265
Dr. Hodgson subaequently received the following additional evi-
dence :
—
Lima, Incl., October ord, 1892.
My father bids luu say that the brief newspaper item which caught youv
attention stated the facts of the case and ho could add little to it. It is
the only experience of such a nature he ever had.
(Miss) Jennie P. Williams.
Nvreniher 21sf, 1892.
My father related his experience to the family at the breakfast table a
short time before receiving the telegram informing him of the robbery.
Jennie P. Williams.
Lima, Ind., i\rovem6er 28</i, 1892.
We recollect the account given by Mr. Williams of his waking hi the
night under the impression of having heard a loud noise like a heavy
explosion, and of his dressing and going through the business part of the
village to see whether anything was amiss. The account was given at the
breakfast table before news was received of the Coldwater Bank robbery.
(Signed), Miis. S. P. Williams.
Mary A. Samson.
CORRESPONDENCE I
fT/te Editor is not vesponuhle :for opinions expresi^ed hj Correspondents.]
THE LIMITATIONS OF BELIEF.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society fob Psychical Reseaech.)
Sir,—One of the most satisfactory results of a literary argument is the
elimination from it of those points on wdiich the parties hnd themselves to
be in substantial, and perhaps unsuspected agreement, and the consequent
reduction in number, and clearness in definition, of such as they ultimately
must agree to difi"er about. I think myself fortunate in having progressed
so far in this direction that the many subjects incidental to the recent dis-
cussion in these columns have, by the gradual discarding of contentions
seen to be unnecessary, or inconclusive, been reduced to the one question
which I have placed at the head of this letter. Expressed more fully it is
this : Are there, or are there not, certain propositions the alleged evidences
for which it would be mere waste of time to examhie,* and which there-
fore we should reject not only without evidence, but even in spite of it ?
Stated thus abstractedly, I doubt if there is anyone who would hesitate
to answer in the affirmative, unless it were certain spiritists who seem to have
adopted, for their own, the saying of Tertullian— Crec^o ipxia ahmvdum est.
True it is that fresh and unexpected facts are continually coming to light in
the natural world ; and that, by ol)Serving these facts systematically, new laws
are gradually evolved, but facts and laws alike are iuvarial)ly found to be in
harmony with the general lines of the Universe, and every fresh discovery
''I do not here mean to express any objection to the pubHcation of the " Ex-
periences " That might be perhaps justified on widely differing grounds ;
although,
personally, the great length of the paper seeins to me unnecessary from every
point of vieWi
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 18'J4.
redeems one more field from Chaos to add it to the Cosmos. For, unlike
man, Nature never deceives us. If she appears to deny herself we may rest
assured that is only because we have misinterpreted her or mis-applied her
methods. Were it otherwise, there could be no progress. For each for-
ward step must be reached from the firm foothold of immutable and
impregnable law, and if such things as gravitation and chemical affinity were
subject to capricious variations, there would be an end of all science.
No doubt, as the late Prof. Tyndall remarks, "Nature is full of
anomalies which no foresight can predict, and which experiment alone can
reveal. From the deportment of a vast number of bodies, we should be led
to conclude that heat always produces ex2:)ansion, and that cold always
Ijroduces contraction. But water steps in, and bismuth steps in to qualify
this conclusion " {Had as Motion, p. 89.) But this is not an exception to law ;
it is only the operation of another law as invariable as the rest. Water does
not expand on freezing for ninety-nine times and contract on freezing for the
lumdi'edth. The expansion on freezing is therefore no more an exception to
law, than the act of walking upstairs is an exception to gravitation.
Again, the progress of knowledge may be likened to a building, the stones
of which are closed questions of the nature of indefectible certitudes. Each
such certitude forms the basis of the next. On one face of the edifice the
builders are at a stand for want of fresh material, and are looking here and
there to find it, collecting tentatively such as they can find, and disputing
perhaps as to its fitness for the purpose. On another face, material is
ofiering almost faster than it can be put in. But whether the progress be
slow or fast, the stones once in their places form part of the permanent
structure, and could not be removed without endangering the stability of the
whole. Two of the foundation-stones of the edifice I have already instanced
in gravitation and chenucal affinity, but the list of certitudes like these, or
founded upon such, might be indefinitely extended, and no one is more
capable of doing this than the two learned Professors who have last addressed
you. Below all these again, and built into the bed-rock of the mind, are
axioms conditioned by the mind itself and only to be perceived intuitively as
propositions, self-evident, necessary, and universal. On these all knowledge
ultimately rests. They are incapable of proof ; otherwise they would bo
subject to demonstration from other truths lielow them. Being what they
are, however, they are to the logician what the datum line is to the engineer,
or the elementary metals to the chemist. Anyone who tampers with in-
tuitive axioms does so at his peril.
When a scientific fact or law is once for all conclusively demonstrated, no
new fact or law subsequently discovered can or ever will invalidate or annul
it ; which is tlie same as saying that natural laws are nut subject to repeal.
The laws of dynamics are tlie same for a locomotive or a flying machine that
they are for a wheelbarrow.
Not to pursue tliis subject further, let us come from the general to the
particular, and see its practical bearing upon tlie problems Ijefore us. Let
it be supposed that an eminent chemist were to i^erform a simijle experiment
which he had repeatedly tried before and which immbers of other persons
had in previ ous times also performed, and always, necessarily, with the same
June, 1894.] Jowmal of Society for Psychical Research. 267
result. But on this occasion, the result appears strangely different. What
may we suppose would be his attitude in face of such a contingency '?
Would
he say "This experiment having, for the first time in history, produced an
abnormal result throws doubt upon all that was known about it before," or
would he not rather say " There is a mistake somewhere. Either one thing
lias been over-heated, or another has been under-estimated, or my assistant
has inadvertently substituted one ingredient for another. What the nature
of the error may be, is not worth enquiring into. The experiment has
failed, not because Nature is capricious, but because the conditions have not
been observed."
When the missionary Moffat was travelling in South Africa half-a- century
ago, he encountered a tribe who assured him that m a neighbouring country,
the moon always rose in the West. Of course he denied that it could be so.
I cannot now fully recall the discussion which ensued, but the natives
answered in effect, although with a sarcasm jjrobably less refined than Mr.
Speer's, that Moffat's denial was not much to the point because "they were
present on the occasions in question, and he was not."
What was the ground of confidence which enabled the chemist, in the
imaginary instance, to reject the evidence of his senses, and the missionary,
in the real one, to refuse the testimony of other people ']
It was that to the
inmost core of their being they were convinced that Nature never deceives.
Like causes, operating under like conditions, produce like effects ; and will
conthiue to do so always, everywhere, and for all men, while the world lasts.
Those readers who have had the patience to follow me thus far will be
prepared for tlie final step in my argument. Since men came upon the earth,
objects of sensible size coming into contact with fixed obstacles, have either
been arrested, or deflected, or have penetrated the obstacle by the removal of
a part of its substance equal to the size of the object. When, therefore, half-
a-dozen people come forward and assert that they, sitting in a darkened
room, " with a hush of expectation, and faces (if they could have been seen)
of awe-stricken earnestness" i.e., in a state of mental expectancy which
prepared them to believe anything the "spirits " chose to reveal, have, on the
evidence of what they are pleased to call their senses, proved Nature to bo
a trickster, and that throughout the ages she has kept a card up her sleeve to
flash upon them at the end of the 19th Century, in a Hampstead drawing-
room, I say, bluntly, that T do not believe it. "Men were deceivers
ever," but Nature cannot beti-ay, because she wears the impress of her
Maker, and His truth is written upon her lineaments.
So far the argument from the material side. But from the mental side it
is at least equally strong, for if a bell can pass through a wall without making
a hole in it, then either the matter of the obstacle must be in its accustomed
place and at the same time someft'/ic; t else, or the object penetrating it must
(as I endeavoured to shew in the April Number) be itself, and at the same
time sometli'mij else. And these conclusions are self-contradictory, and
therefore unthinkable. For the propositions that a thing cannot be in two
places at once, and that it cannot be itself and at the same time something
wholly different, fulfil all the conditions of an intuitive axiom ;
i.e., they are
self-evident, necessary, and universal.
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1894.
At this ijoint I will anticipate an objection which someone is probably
waiting to make. It will be said " If you reject records of phenomena
on (( ^>/7'oci grounds, because of their apparent incredibility, why do you
attend to those of phantasms, clairvoyance, and psychical phenomena of any
kind '!
And what business have you in the Psychical Society at all 1 Are
not many of these things beyond the reach of reason, and have they not to
be accepted as facts on evidence, without our being able to account for them 1
"
My answer to tliat is : To fail in satisfying the reason is one thing : to openly
violate it is quite anothei. And that is the difference between a miracle
(however defined) and an impossibility. The incredibility we have been dis-
cussing is not merely apparent, but intrinsic, and inexpugnable.
Dr. Lodge shews how little he appreciates the argument I intended
to convey, when he says that as soon as he is convinced of an event which
seems untliinkable, he " must at once set about trying to contemplate it, so
as to make it thinkable." Does he then believe that if he were to set about
thinking of an object being wholly in two places at the same time, he would
at the end of a week be any nearer doing so than when he began '{
I have already remarked, in the February Number, on the essential
difference between physical and psychical investigation. In the latter we
have but little accumulated experience, and practically no formulated laws.
Consequently everything is open to experiment and speculation. The
Psychical Researcher is like the physiologist before Hippocrates ;
he has to
find out everything for himself without the unearned increment of knowledge
which the physicist has inherited from his predecessors. But this freedom
of speculative vagrancy should make the psychical student all tlie more tena-
cious of those few certainties and elementary truths which fall to his lot
from across the frontier of natural science.
It is with unfeigned surprise that I find myself driven into arguing against
the practice of free enquiry, having so often had to hisist on the clahns of
any well-attested event to investigation. But this was in relation to psychical
phenomena, of the causes, and processes of which, we have no certain know-
ledge and cannot refer to demonstrated laws. The case is totally difiereiit
when the alleged events are of a nature not only to transcend, or even
supersede, but to violate and reverse the most elementary and universal
physical laws, the operation of which are matters of daily and hourly
experience. It is a matter for observation and not for dogmatism, whether
a telepathic message may he received from the antipodes, or a veridical
phantasm of a deceased person be made evident to a living one. It is a
matter of certainty and not of speculation that a solid object cannot be made
to pierce a fixed obstacle without making a hole in it ; and so far as it is a
subject for e.Kperiment, the experiment may h& renewed at will, and with a
foregone conclusion, as often as desired.
The subject is of importance for everyone, Ijecause it is precisely this
willingness to believe anything, on what is called evidence, that threatens
the enquirer witli an intellectual degradation such as has overtaken some
able and even brilliant minds. To draw a hard and fast line and say : Thus
far will I believe and no further, would, in relation to physical hivestigations,
be an almost idiotic absurdity. And wliy 'i Because Nature never deceives ;
June, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 269
and we may abandon ourselves without reserve to her guidance. Neverthe-
less, that is precisely the position I venture to recommend in regard to
psychical research, and when the sporadic vagaries of psychical phenomena
are under investigation. Here we walk in the midst of pitfalls, and must
need say, Let Nature be true and every man a liar.
There are many other points I should like to notice, but must only do so
in the briefest manner. " How these stories came to be told " is a subject
quite foreign to this discussion, for if the alleged occurrences are truly im-
possible, the causes which led to their being asserted possess only a personal
or academical interest. There are, I should say, at least half-a-dozen 2)ossible
ways of accounting for them, but I am not going to discuss any of them.*
Professor Ramsay asks me a question on a subject of which I am absolutely
ignorant, and appears to imply that, because I cannot answer it, therefore
no answer is, or ever will be , known or discovered . That assumption ,
though
ilattering, is not sufficiently attractive to tempt me into discussing a subject-
I know nothing about, t Neither am I competent to pronounce on whether
"if kinetic energy could be converted wholly into radiant energy, matter
would cease to exist." All I know is that, in such a case, there would be
an end of the Cosmos, and of the human race, and even of the Royal Society.
In the meantime, we can only deal with the Cosmos as we find it. .T. S
Mill states, if I remember rightly, that "there may be another world in
which two and two make five," but that world is not any of which we have
experience, or have faculties fitted to comprehend.
In finally taking leave of this discussion, I wish to say tliat I have no-
thing to complain of in the way in which I have been met. Those who go
to the wars must expect blows. I have been told that I am "dogmatic,"
"ejaculatory," " interjectional," "cock-sure," "emotional," &c., and, what
seems worst of all, that I have exercised common sense. For my own part,
I consider arguments preferable to epithets, but then I am not a Fellow of
the Royal Society. I have therefore, only to plead in extenuation of these
enormities, that when I have called certain things impossible, unthinkable,
and so on, I did not use these words merely to relieve my feelings, still less
to exasperate those of my opponents, but as the deliberate expression of
opinions carefully considered, which I have given reasons for to the best of
my ability, and with a fullness for which I must apologise to your readers.
I have endeavoured to sliew that the idea of an object such as those de-
scribed penetrating an obstacle without leaving any trace of its passage is
incompatible with the facts of science on the one hand, and with the laws of
mind on the other. Whether I have succeeded in that endeavour is not for
me to say, but if I have done so, I confidently claim from my opponents
their rejection of the evidence which has been offered in the Experiences oi
Mr. Stainton Moses. Thoma.s Barkwoeth.
P.S.—I have felt very uncertain as to the bearing of Dr. Lodge's sug-
* All that I think it necessary to say for my own sake, rather than his, is that not
even in thought has it occurred 'to me to accuse a gentleman—against whom I know
nothing, and who is no longer ah've to defend himself—of wilful mendacity, or
conscious fraud.
+ Does Prof. Ramsay believe that, as a fact, matter is destructible ? If not, what
is the value of his conundrum?
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1894.
gestion of turning the gas out, carrying in the bell, withdrawing, and lighting
the gas again : but I infer that he is imputing fraud not to living persons
(for he expressly says the contrary), but to the unseen agency, whatever it is.
On that view of the case, there is of course an end to the claim that the
"spirits " can make matter pass through matter, and also to any moral value
that can be attached to " Spirit Teachings."
Dr. Lodge " sees no evidence whatever that tlie bell did pass through the
wall 1
" Then whatever has all this discussion been about ? And what be-
comes of the repeated assertions of this and similar occurrences in the
"Experiences," again reiterated hi Mr. Speer's letter of last month?
" Doors bolted, windows barred, &c." To be sure he does not mention the
clumiiey I
June 2nd, 1894.
Sir, —Your coui'tesy gives me an o^jportunity of a few words in reply to
Mr. Barkworth's final epistle, and I take advantage of it not for the sake of
a la.st word, but because thesedetters may have a wider scope than mere con-
tributions to a controversy in itself insignificant, and because it is useful
occasi(mally to justify the attitude of potential receptivity to strange facts
which I and a few other j^hysicists have taken up.
Mr. Barkworth says that I do not appreciate his argument ; and I confess
I do not appreciate it very highly. I rate it indeed rather lower than in my
last letter was perhaps manifest. He likewise says that it is with unfeigned
surprise that he finds himself driven into arguments against the practice of
free inquiry ; and I must say that I mildly share that surprise.
Here I might stop, were it not that there are a few apt anecdotes and
illustrations in his last letter which emphasise very clearly the difference
between a reasonable and enlightened mind of the Theological type and a
ditto ditto of the scientific type.
Dr. Moffat is said to have encountered a tribe of savages who told him
that in a neighbouring country the moon rose in the west. Very well, the
instance serves. The missionary or theologian thus encountered says things
ecpiivalent to "Pooh ! nonsense, I don't believe it, where do you expect
to go to? Nature never deceives," and so on. The person with .scientific
instincts is more inclined to leave Nature to take care of her own morality,
nor is he wishful to give utterance to his own views on the subject of the
celestial motions ; he is simply anxious to elicit genuine first-hand state-
ments from the informants, to find out why they say so and what they mean.
His patient and catechetical attitude would no doubt seem to the more
consciously enlightened person grotesque, if not mad ; nevertheless the
information as to what a savage tribe means by "west" might turn out
interesting to an anthropologist or a student of folk-lore. I suppose Mr.
Barkworth knows what he himself means by " west," and perhaps he
expects a savage's definition to agree with that of a European astronomer,
but in this he might be disappointed. Even so civilised a person as the
jDrophet Daniel may conceivably have centred his points of the compass at
Jerusalem rather than at the North Pole.
Many statements which bear a superficial aspect of craziness are not so
crazy when understood. For instance, Mr. Cope Whitehouse, I believe, holds
June, 189-1.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 271
a dogma that the building of the pyramids was carried on from the top
downwards and not from the bottom upwards. "Sheer lunacy 1
" is the natural
man's exclamation, and Mr. Barkworth would apparently add that Cope
Whitohouse could not have been made (like Nature !) in the image of his
Maker, or he would not thus basely attempt to deceive. The dogma is in
all probability false enough, but it is not lunacy. Nor does it so appear to
a patient person when he realises that the pyramids are, by Mr. Whitehouse,
supposed to enclose each a natural conical hill, whose escarpments were
utilised as building material and deposited at the top in the form of an apex
forming the nucleus of a complete artificial enclosure.
It is possible to be too hasty at jumping to conclusions. If a view is held
or fact asserted in serious earnest by persons not manifestly half-witted it
may be worth consideration ; and if the assertions are of a kind which have
been repeated again and again in various epochs of the world's history, and
by a large body of respectable persons, then a sane and sober record of a
favourable specimen of such assertions is surely worthy of much space in the
proceedings of a Society founded for the express purpose of investigating
such alleged occurrences. If a record like that of Stainton Moses is to bo
excluded, I really do not know what it behoves us to put in. Facts concern-
ing '
' gravity and chemical affinity " are already dealt with by other societies,
and perhaps the statements made concerning these things are not always
and absolutely perfectly true. Parenthetically also I may say that a chemist
whose attitude towards new and unexpected occurrences was of the con-
temptuous order imagined as probable by Mr. Barkworth would not make
many discoveries. Such troublesome failures often turn out of vital interest ;
as Mr. Ci'ookes, for instance, must be well. able to tell us.
Mr. Barkworth challenges us to reject all the physical side of the Moses
evidence, a priori, because " the idea of an object such as those described
penetrating an obstacle without leaving any trace of its passage is incom-
patible with the facts of science on the one hand and with the laws of mind
on the other." Now, no person witli a scientific imagination could have
made this statement. Perhaps the phrase " Maxwell's demons " conveys to
tlie lay-mind no adequate conception, and it would take too long to explain ;
but it is surely apparent that if in the progress of discovery cohesion could
be temporarily suspended, a trepanning operation might, be performed on a
solid partition sufficient for the transmission of an object without any finally
apparent trace of its passage. Or, if time is not of the essence of the
question, we may picture the incredulity of a future inhabitant of earth, say
in the days of William Morris's Earthly Paradise, when railways had bei-
come extinct, their tunnels closed up and grass-grown, who should be told
of ancient legends reporting that engineers had once been accustomed to
poke savage works of art, in the form of dining-cars, through the range of
the St. Gothard from Switzerland to Italy
.
No, sir, I do not propose to reject any serious and solid evidence on a
priori grounds, and it is my earnest hope that the scientific men of the
future, whatever greater influence they may then possess, will never allow
themselves to become a narrow-visioned priesthood, or to imitate the errors
of other dominant sects.—Yours faithfully, Oliver J. Lodge.
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1894.
P.S. —There is an interrogation in Mr. Barkworth's postscript as to
what the discussion has been about.
On my side it has quite distinctly been about the following :
— (1)
Whether the unusual physical phenomena asserted to have occurred in the
presence of Mr. Stainton Moses are of so impossible and unthinkable a
character as to compel their immediate rejection without record and without
examination of evidence ; and (2) whether it is rational or scientifically
legitimate so to reject otherwise trustworthy evidence, even though the
phenomena asserted should ajjpear at first sight unthinkable.
Questions as to the actual evidence in any particular instance have been
beside the point ;
certainly there was no evidence that I remember concern-
ing a " wall." I used the illustration of the entering bell to show that what
could readily be done by an exuberant schoolboy or obsequious valet need
not involve any necessarily untliinkablc powers on the part of what Mr.
Barkworth calls " the unseen agency." I was not suggesting the process by
which the feat was actually performed on any given occasion.
Sin,— Just one word in comment on Mr. Barkworth's letter in this issue,
of which I have been favoured with a proof. He writes :
—" Would [the
chemist] not rather say, '
There is a mistake somewhere. Either one thing
has been over-heated, or another has been underestimated, or my assistant
has inadvertently substituted one ingredient for another. What the nature
of the error may he is not worth inquiriri.g into* The experiment has failed
not because Nature is capricious, but because the conditions have not been
observed.'?
"
This sentence typifies the different attitudes taken up by Mr. Barkworth
and his critics. I can assure him that the chemist would say nothing of the
sort. He might suspect it ; but he would say : "Here is something worth
inquiring into : it may lead to a new discovery ; at all events, we must
probe it to the bottom and lind out why an abnormal result has been
obtained."
He will not consider himself shackled by the doctrines of gravitation or
chemical affinity (I wish I knew what chemical affinity is I), but would lit his
theories to his facts.
The proposition that a thing cannot be in two places at once does not
seem to me to differ in essence from the proposition that two things may l)e
in one place at the same time ; and I place the fact mentioned in my former
letter at Mr. Barkworth's service, not with a view of receiving any explana-
tion, but simply as a fact.
In spite of these remarks, it must not be understood that I in any way
accept the phenomena the credibility of which Mr. Barkworth disputes ;
like Boyle, I maintain the attitude of the " Sceptical Chymist."
W. Ramsay.
* The italics are mine. —W.R.
No. CXII.—Vol. VI. JCLY, 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Associates 273
Meeting of the Council 273
General Meeting 274
Cases received by the Literary Committee 280
Correspondence 286
NEW ASSOCIATES.
Beyant, Captain G. E., R.A., c/o J. M. Edwards, The Elms, Ramsgate.
Humphreys, Arthur Lee, Half-Timbered Cottage, Pangbourne.
Thatcher, Miss, 36, Devonshire-street, Portland-phice, London, W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Conner, Mrs. Eliza A., American Press Association, 45 & 47, Park-
place, New York, N.Y.
Etheridge, Miss Fanny S., 91, Round-hill, Northampton, Mass.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Westminster Town
Hall on July 1.3th, Mr. W. Crookes in the chair. There were also
present : Professor H. Sidgwick, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Leaf,
F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Three new Associates were elected. The election of two new Associates
of the American Branch was recorded. The names and addresses are
given above.
At her request the name of Miss N. Robertson was transferred
from the list of Honorary Associates to that of Members.
At the request of Mr. George W. Douglas, recently elected, his
name was transferred from the American Branch to the English
Society.
The Council was informed of the decease of Mrs. Richard Smith,
an Associate of the Society.
Several presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was accorded to the donors.
It was agreed that General Meetings should be held on Friday,
October 26th, at 4 p.m., and on Friday, December 7th, at 8.30 p.m.
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1894.
Various other matters having been attended to, the Council agreed
that its next meeting should be at 19, Buckingham-street, W.C., at
4.30 P.M., on Friday, October 5th.
GENERAL MEETING. .
.
The 67 th General Meeting of the Society was held at the "West-
minster Town Hall on Friday, July 13th, at 4 p.m. ;
Mr. W. Crookes
in the chair.
Professor Sidgwick read the following paper on " Disinterested
Deception."
I have chosen the subject of my paper this evening, in view of the
•
desirability of throwing any light that can be thrown on the
phenomenon of Disinterested Deception, at the present stage of our
researches ; —I mean the stage initiated by Mr. Myers in presenting to
the Society and to the public the experiences of Mr. Stainton Moses.
I should like to say at the outset that I cordially welcomed Mr.
Myers' article : I regard it as one of the most important pieces of
work that has been done for some time in furtherance of the aims
which our Society was founded to promote. It is important, because
it brings us face to face with a most difficult choice of alternatives.
There seem to me to be three possible explanations of the records
published by Mr. Myers :
1. That the marvels occurred substantially as narrated.
2. That what happened has been grossly and, at the same time,
consistently exaggerated by all present.
3. That Mr. Stainton Moses carried on a laborious and systematic
deception, first of his intimate friends, and afterwards—to the end of
his life of the public, with no apparent motive of personal interest.
The difficulties involved in the first supposition are trite and
familiar, and I will not weary you by dwelling on them now : the
second I dismiss, as no one has seriously maintained it. I propose to-
day to consider how far the experience gained in an investigation of
many years enables us to bring forward any proved case of elaborate
motiveless deception at all parallel to that which we should have to
suppose in the case of Mr. Moses, if we accepted the third alternative.
There are half-a-dozen instances known to me of confessed or
demonstrated deception in cases where no mocive of pecuniary interest
could come in. But most of these are obviously dissimilar to that now
before us—from the youth or inferior education of the persons con-
cerned—and there is only one which appears to me to afford any
important parallel. This I now propose to narrate fully ;
as it seems
to me instructive in various ways.
July, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 275
Some years ago I heard from a friend that a near relation of his
—whom I will call Mr. Z. —had been engaging ia psychical experi-
ments ; and had turned out to be a medium, with a power of raising
tables from the ground and carrying them through the air with his
hands touching the upper surface only. I inquired further, and found
that Mr. Z. was not only a professional man of good social status,
but that he had devoted his leisure industriously to the study of a
•department of learned research, and the composition of books and
articles which had gained him at least a respectable position among
students of the subject. I found too that the phenomena occurred in
a private circle composed mainly of his near relations and intimate
friends. It seemed to me a case that obviously came within our
general plan of investigation : accordingly I obtained an introduction
to him, and was allowed to be present on several occasions when the
phenomena were produced. There was no doubt that tables were
raised from the floor, suspended in the air, carried through the air,
with the hands of Mr. Z. —and sometimes of one or two other members
of the circle— only touching the top. It was clearly a phenomenon
of much interest, if there was no conscious deception.
Deception seemed to me in a high degree improbable from what I
knew of Mr. Z. ; at the same time the conditions under which the
phenomenon took place, and the opportunities of testing allowed to the
investigators, were not such as to enable me to bear any testimony to
the impossibility of its occurrence by normal means. As I frankly
•explained to him in conversation, the interest of the phenomena as
witnessed by me depended entirely on the assumption of his good faith.
Well, things went on : we explained to him the conditions that
appeared to us satisfactory ; but difEculties were made about the
acceptance of them ; and the situation as regards evidence was not
materially changed when my wife, who joined with me in the investiga-
tion, received from a lady who had been present at two successive
seances a letter containing the following statements :
—
Fehrvary 28f/i, 1891.
On both Wednesday 18th and Thursday 19th February, I twice saw, under
Mr. Z's right wrist, a long, thin, greyish object, running up under his cuff at
one end, and into the palm of his hand at the other end. I am to my owa
satisfaction convinced I saw this, as far as one can be of a thing; one does not
touch. . . . I sat up after my return home and drew it as I saw it
and then I made a rough machine that lifted the lightest little table. . . .
The next morning. . . . I got our gardener to make a rough wooden
machine and we could with this hold up any of the small tables easily with
three or four candles on it. . . . I resolved to look most carefully next
time and I again saw the thing. I cannot persuade myself that it was a
vein or a shadow. ... It was not Hke that. It was distinct, and it
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 189*.
was just in the place where such an implement would be of use. His right
hand was not raised as completely from the table as the left hand was.
. . , also two of the middle fingers were kept close together on the table.
. . . On both occasions of the table going up the cuff was tightly strained
to the arm. . .
It seems to me that it will be very difficult to find any experiments satis-
factory. . . . except done under your conditions. . . . full light,
cuff up, and sitting near ;
quite near as I was.
Notwithstanding this letter, it still appeared to my wife and myself
highly improbable that Mr. Z. could have been guilty of the conduct
imputed to him ;
accordingly, we determined to suspend our judg-
ment and wait for further evidence. In a few months this
further evidence came. Mr. Z.—who knew that, in our view, his
phenomenon would be more impressive if his arms were bared while the
table was held up in the air—did actually exhibit the phenomenon
under this condition, on an occasion on which my wife was present.
Owing to inadequate opportunities of observation, she did not regard
the experiment as decisive ; but it certainly seemed to her that the
effect could not have been produced by the instruments described in
the letter that I have quoted. But, after some time had elapsed, she
received from another lady who had taken part in the seance last
mentioned the following interesting account of what really happened :
—
In September, 1891, I went to Mr. Z.'s for two nights to assist at seances.
Mr. and Mrs. Z., Miss A., and Mrs. Sidgwick were there both nights. On
the second day I was asked to go into the garden and talk over a new experi-
ment with Mr. Z. He talked vaguely on the subject at first, and then said
he wanted to try a quite new experiment that night, but it depended a good
deal on whether I would help him : I promised to do all I could, and he
explained that he wished to ted Mrs. Sidgwich's poujers of ohsermtion, and
see whether she could distinguish between natural and fraudulent table-
lifting. He then explained liow he would do this, and I at once objected—
but he argued down everything I said and represented it entirely as a test of
great interest—he said he had as much right to a test as Mrs. Sidgwick, &c.
He seemed so extremely anxious to cry it that I felt I hardly could decline.
The whole thing appeared to me in a ludicrous light at the time, as I never
suspected him of any other motive. . . . [Our informant explains that
it was understood they were to laugh over it next morning.] He then asked
me to come to the library, produced two flat sticks covered with black cloth
(about an inch wide and long enough to reach from wrist to elbow) and
showed me how to use them ; I found it difficult, having weak wrists, and
tried to get out of it all by saying it was physically impossible, but here he
was obdurate, and we went down to tea on the understanding that I was to-
do my best. During the evening I much regretted having undertaken even,
to try the test, and if I could have seen Mr. Z. alone for a moment I should
have told him I must disappoint him : but he seemed to avoid me till the
time came for the seance. Up to this time no suspicion ever crossed mjr
-July, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 277
mind ; I believed it to be just what he said, a " test," and that next day the
matter would be public property of the "circle." Having seen Mr. Z. lift
the table in the afternoon with great skill, I tried to see the difference
myself between natural and fraudulent movements. To my horror I saw
distinctly that Mr. Z. was moving it exactly as he had done in the afternoon :
his hands were exactly in the same position on the table and I caught sight
of the instruments in his cuffs.
This was the first part of the seance. Mr. Z. then left the room to
change his coat for a loose sleeveless gown—in order to prove that
the phenomena could not possibly be produced by any instruments up
his sleeves. Our informant goes on :
—
Just before leaving the room to change his coat Mr. Z. sat on the sofa by
me and slipped the sticks behind me. Only Miss A. and he and I were at
the table.
(Mrs. Sidgwick sat at the side of the room.)
I could not raise it at all for some time, and he was getting impatient.
The experiment was a failure, though I believe the table was once really off
the ground for a few seconds.
That is, it was lifted off by our informant with the sticks. Our
informant then describes how she wrote, telling Mr. Z. what she had
seen, and asking for an explanation ; how all explanation was refused ;
how she insisted on resigning, but wh s persuaded to say nothing about
the fraud until she learnt that he—along with other members of the
circle, each speaking for himself—had signed a declaration that the
phenomena at these seances had " not been produced by normal
means." She then felt that she ought not to keep silence, and com-
municated what I have told you to Mrs. Sidgwick. (Mrs. Sidgwick's
previously written account of the same seance states that Mr. Z.
told her before dinner that everything was to lead up to a special
experiment for her benefit, and that, in fact, the table was raised
in the air with Mr. Z.'s arm bare for several inches above
the wrist). I need not say that the letter above quoted, con-
firming as it did the observations previously communicated to us,
removed all doubt as to Mr. Z.'s modus operandi ; and though, out of
regard for others, we determined not to publish his name, we took
effectual means to prevent a repetition of his trickery. The letter is
interesting in another way ; it shows how a perfectly honourable and
well-intentioned person may be persuaded by a plausible and in-
genious trickster, first, to take part in deception and then to conceal
the part so taken ; since, if Mr. Z.'s audacity had stopped short of
declaring solemnly that his tables had not been raised by normal
means, the disclosure from which I have quoted would probably never
have been made.
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jply, 1894.
I pass to consider how far Mr. Z.'s case resembles, and how far it
differs from that of Mr. Stainton Moses. The experience that I have
narrated certainly shows that a professional man of good social posi-
tion and intellectual interests may carry on systematic deception for
years, with no apparent motive except (I suppose) the pleasure of
exciting the wonder of his deceived friends, and the pleasure of laugh-
ing in his sleeve at their credulity. But here the resemblance ends.
Mr. Z. (1) never professed to regard his "phenomena" as a possible
basis for religious or philosophical conclusions, or to take a serious
interest in the scientific investigation of them : and (2) he consistently
refused to publish any account of them in his own name. How
entirely different Mr. Stainton Moses' behaviour was in both respects
has been amply shown in Mr. Myers' article.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then addressed the meeting on the subject of
" Objections to Mr. Stainton Moses' physical phenomena, and replies
thereto." Alluding to Professor Sidgwick's speech above reported,
with which he expressed full agreement, Mr. Myers said that, in justice
to Mr. Stainton Moses, one of the many points of difference between
the two cases ought briefly to be noticed. On the one hand, while the
d priori arguments in favour of the " disinterested deceiver's " honesty
were doubtless strong, they were arguments based almost exclusively
on external circumstances. There was nothing in the personal impres-
sion made by " Mr. Z." to dispose the observer to regard him otherwise
than simply as an alleged medium to be investigated. In the case of Mr.
Stainton Moses, on the other hand, it would have been impossible (in
the speaker's view) to doubt the intense earnestness of his life-long
search after truth. His very defects were all on that side : they were
the defects, not of the plausible charlatan, but of the sometimes
blundering and irritable apostle.
Passing on to discuss Mr. Moses' physical phenomena, the speaker
endeavoured to show that if we allowed to spirits the power of
selective molecular action almost all the alleged phenomena could at least
be brought under a common generalisation. Some such power had
already been suggested by physicists for the imaginary " sorting demons
of Max ffell "
; and the hypothesis which the mere study of Mr. Moses'
and Mr. Home's phenomena had independently suggested, turned out
to be little more than an elaboration of a conception which had already
been found convenient in speculations dealing with the ultimate laws
of matter. It is intended to print the substance of this address m
Part XXVII of the Proceedings.
In the discussion that followed,
Mr. Ckookes sa;id that he had Hstened with much interest to Mr.
July, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 279
Myers' address : though, without further reflection, he could not venture
to express an opinion on the physical speculations that it contained. He
entirely agreed with Mr. Myers as to the personal impression produced
by Mr. Stainton Moses, of sincere and intense belief in the conclu-
sions publicly maintained by him. His own experiments with Home
had convinced him of the operation of physical forces at present
unrecognised by science.
Mr. Crookes then described how Home had taken a red-hot coal
out of the fire and placed it on a handkerchief without burning
the handkerchief in the least. (SeeS.P.R. Proceedings No. XV., Vol.
VI. pp. 103-4.) Mr. Crookes had taken the handkerchief away with
him and afterwards examined it chemically, without finding any trace
of preparation ;
although, indeed, there was no chemical process
known to him by which the effects that he had witnessed could have
been produced.
Mr. Page Hopps—referring to Mr. Sidgwick's paper—said that
Mr. Z.'s fraud did not appear to him to have been completely proved.
Professor Sidgwick said that the proof consisted in the complete
agreement between two entirely independent witnesses, one of whom
had seen Mr. Z. using secretly the instruments described, while the
other had not only seen him so use them, but had herself used them
in accordance with his instructions.
Mr. Lane Fox asked Mr. Myers what idea he had formed of the
physical constitution of the beings to which he attributed selective
molecular action.
Mr. Myees replied that he was not prepared to make any sugges-
tions on this point.
Mr. Maitland said that it was very important to distinguish
diffei'ent classes of extra-human iatelligences, and not to regard physical
effects of the kind that had been described as necessarily due to the
agency of departed spirits. He referred for illustration to an experi-
ence of his own ; he had seen a blister produced by extra-human
agency, similar to a blister caused by a burn.
Mr. PoDMORE rose to point out that Mr. Myers' speech had passed
by the main objection to the phenomena recorded as having taken
place in the presence of Mr. Stainton Moses. Mr. Myers had en-
deavoured to show that the ascription of these phenomena to some new
mode or modes of physical energy did not necessarily involve any con-
travention or dislocation of established physical laws. But that, after
all, was merely a side issue : and there appeared to be some risk that
the attention directed, both at recent meetings of the Society and in
the Proceedings, to this aspect of the case might obscure the main
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1894
question. We had first to ask whether the phenomena described were
or were not due to misrepresentation or deception—and this question
was still unanswered. Nor was the assumption of fraud on Mr. Moses'
part so altogether incredible as had been represented. It is true that
he did not succeed in obtaining anything which to a sane mind could
seem an adequate return for systematic and lifelong deception. But,
firstly, we must look not to what was actually achieved, but to what
might have been hoped for in the way of social position and reputation.
And if, even so, the imposture is found inexplicable, the choice is still
between a moral and a physical miracle, and of the two the
speaker found it less difficult to believe in the moral miracle. He
made these remarks with some reluctance, not attempting to prejudge
the matter, but solely in order to bring back into prominence what
appeared to him to be the real question at issue.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L.— 974. Af^P" Apparitions.
From Mrs. Scott, The Elms, Acton Hill, London, W.
The following account was enclosed in a letter dated November,
25th, 189.3.
A sister of mine went to South America, and married there. One
morning I was in bed about 11 o'clock, when there was a knock at ray door ;
thinking it was the house-maid with hot water, I said " Come in." No one
came in. There was another knock ;
again I said " Come in," and turned to-
wards the door. My sister was standing there. I, thinking she had returned
unexpectedly, said " What, you, Elsie ? " She then vanished. When I went
downstairs I told my husband, who said " Don't tell your mother, or she will
think something has happened to her." We heard a month later that she
had died, after a few hours' illness, about that time.
On December the Cth, 1892, I returned home about 11.30, after
spending the evening with some friends. On going upstairs, I saw a tall
man so close to me that I put out my hand to push him back, but my hand
went into space. I again moved forward, when he was cbse in front of me,
and, though I couldn't see his face, I recognised the figure of a great friend
of mine in India. I went into my sitting-room, almost expecting to find
him there. A week later I got the news of his death at Bombay, on the
evening of the 6th. He had always said that if anything happened to him,
he would let me know. I may add I wrote to an old ship-mate of his, and
told him of my experience, on the morning of the 7th.
In reply to our request for corroborative testimony, Mrs. Scott
wrote :
—
November 29th, 1893.
I enclose a few lines from my sister and my husband. The man I wrote
to about having seen Percy Faulkner, was Lieut. Edward Reeves, R.N., of
..July, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 281
H.M.S. Royalist, at present on the Australian station. I can, if you wish it,
write and ask if he still has ray letter, or ask him to write you a few lines,
but it will be three months before an answer can be received.
I cannot be sure of the date in March 1887, that I saw my sister, but I
helieve it to have been at the actual time of her death, which was on the 15th
of March. VVe did not receive the news till more than a month after.
The notes enclosed were the following:
—
The Elms, Acton Hill, W. November 29, 1893.
I well remember, in March 1887, my wife telling me she had seen her
sister, who was then in South America. I advised her not to tell her mother,
in case it should upset her.
Ronald A. Scott,
M.R.I., F.R.G.S., M.I.E.E., (fee.
Woodland Cottage, Acton Hill, London, W. November IWi, 1893.
I remember my sister, Mrs. Scott, telling me on the morning of December
7th that she had seen a friend of ours, Percy Faulkner, at that time in
Bombay, on the staircase the night before, and wondering what it meant.
Florence Farquhabson.
Mrs. Scott wrote later in answer to further enquiries :
—
December 2Sth, 1893.
I am doubtful of Mr. Reeves having kept my letter about Percy
Faulkner, but of course he would remember about it. It was to my sister,
Miss Farquharson, that I mentioned what I had seen, not to Mr. Scott. In
the case of seeing my sister, I mentioned it to him.
I had not any idea of Mr. Faulkner being ill ; in fact he was not,for he died
from an overdose of chloral, which he was taking for insomnia. He always
said that if anything happened to him, he would let me know.
I enclose extracts from a letter I received from a shipmate of Mr.
Faulkner's about his death. I am unable to send the letter, as there are
some private details.
The letter was written, Mrs. Scott informs us, by J. Ham, Esq.,
R.N., H.M.S. Cossack, and the extracts sent us were as follows:
—
Bombay, January 15th, 1893.
The ship was placed in dock on the 5th and we were quartered at the
Great Western Hotel, Percy's room being on the same flat as mine, and
lDut four or five rooms removed. ... On the evening of the 5th, we
went for a walk and to hear the band, and talked a great deal on home
affairs ; he was in the best of spirits. We afterwards met friends, and I
learnt afterwards that he went to the club, t went to his room the morning
of the 6th and tapped at the door. He answered, and I asked him how he
felt. His reply was " Not much, old chap." That was the last I saw of the
poor chap alive. . . . About 10, a servant came and told me that a
doctor wanted to see me. I followed the boy, and imagine my grief when I
saw two doctors attempting to restore life to him who has so lately been
a source of life to us all. . . . Your seeing Percy, as you relate, was very
:strange and most remarkable, and yet undoubtedly the same thing has
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1894.
happened before with those who have had dear friends dying in distant
lands.
We wrote to Lieutenant Reeves, asking if he still possessed the letter
in which Mrs. Scott had informed him of her experience before she-
heard of Mr. Faulkner's death, and he replied
H.M.S. Royalist, Albany, Western Australia, -Pe6riKmj 8i7i,, 1894.
Dear Sir,— Your letter of .January 3rd to hand. With regard to any
documentary evidence with reference to Mrs. Scott's writing and telling,
me she had seen the apparition of Mr. Percy Faulkner at the time of his.
death, I am afraid I have none, as the letter was destroyed, and at the same
time, I at this moment don't recollect the date, having unfortunately no diary
or anything to refer back to. But at the time I was quite convinced in my
mind that Mrs. iScott had seen him ;
for, as she tells you, she wrote to me
the next morning, and I was up at Acton very shortly afterwards and
questioned her most closely about it, and from what we afterwards heard,
about Mr. Faulkner's death, there was no flaw as regards the time. I am
afraid this cannot help you at all, but it would be useless my saying more
than [that], having satisfied my own mind as to what Mrs. Scott had seen, I_
let the matter drop. Yours very truly, Edward Reeves.
L.—975. A«P^
Received through the American Branch.
From Miss Alice Spooner, 1.3, Michigan Avenue, Dorchester
District, Boston, Mass.
On the night of Saturday, February 18th, 1888,1 had a very vivid dream,
in relation to my aunt, resident at Plymouth, Mass., who had charge of me
in my early childhood, and of whom I am very fond.
We seemed to be driving together, when she said to me, "Here I must
leave you, and you must go the rest of the way alone." Soon I was read-
ing a letter which began, " I am sorry to be the bearer of bad news," and
went on to describe the illness of some unknown person, sjieaking of
apoplexy, paralysis of the right side, incoherency of speech, &c.
I spoke of my dream next morning in the presence of three persons,
and of how greatly it had disturbed me. The following day I received a
letter from a son-in-law of my aunt, which read almost word for word like
the letter of my dream, and sunmioned me to her bedside on account of an
attack of apoplexy, the symptoms of which were accurately described in
the dream letter. She survived the shock, however, and is living at the
present date.
When I took the letter referred to, a peculiar feeling, almost like an
electric shock, and such as I have never before or since experienced, shot
through my arms and body.
Alice Spooner.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's enquiries. Miss Spooner wrote :
—
13, Michigan Avenue, Dorchester. March 24:th, 1893.
Three persons heard me tell my dream concerning my aunt. One of
these was my mother, whose mental condition is now such that her
July, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 283-
testimony would be of little value. The two others are Mrs. H. H.
Freeze, of Hudson Street, Somerville, Mass., and my niece. Miss Anna S.
Robbins, of 128, Huntington Avenue, this city. I should say that either of
them would be likely to clearly remember the circumstance.
In regard to the letter which notified me of the illness, I could not say
with certainty whether or no it has been destroyed.
When I left home in answer to the summons, it was saved for my niece,,
then resident with me, to read on her return from town. It is my usual
habit to destroy letters, save such as are of special value, but I do not
clearly remember abnut this. I have a faint impression that it was kept,
and should I find it, I will forward it to you for your perusal.
Alice Spoonee.
Dr. Hodgson wrote to Mrs. Freeze and Miss Kobbins, asking for
their recollections of the incident, and received the following replies:
—
59, Hudson Street, Somerville. April 2n(l, 1893.
Dear Sir,—Yours of March 28th received. I remember Miss Alice
Spooner relating her dream to me in regard to her aunt. It has been sO'
long, I scarcely remember the circumstances sufficiently to give you any
definite points. Perhaps when I see Miss Spooner, I will recall it to.
memory perfectly. F. L. Fkeeze.
128, Huntington Avenue, Boston.
Dear Sir, —Your letter in reference to a dream of my aunt. Miss
Spooner, was duly received.
The affair, which happened some years ago, is a trifle indistinct in my
mind. As I remember it, the facts are as follows : —Miss Spooner dreamed
one Sunday night that she received a letter, beginning, "I am sorry to
send you bad news," and then went on to describe the illness of someone,
and said apoplexy, or paralysis, or something of the kind had happened
to the person about whom he was writing. As T remember, she (Miss-
Spooner) did not dream the name of the person who was ill, or the name of
the person writing the letter.
The next day, Monday, was very stormy, with high winds and heavy rain.
I was then living with Miss Spooner, but came into Boston for a few hours.
I remember returning early in the afternoon, and when the maid opened the
door for me, she told me that Mrs. Hathaway had been stricken with
paralysis, and that Miss Spooner had gone to Plymouth. On going to my
room I found a letter written to Miss Spooner, and beginning, " I am sorry
to send you bad news," &c., and continuing almost verbatim as Miss
Spooner had repeated her dream that morning.
It impressed me strongly at the time, but I concluded it was only one of
the odd things of life, which no amount of reasoning can explain, and
after a few days dismissed it from my mind. I had, in fact, almost for-
gotten it, when your letter recalled it to my mind.
Eegretting that I cannot give you a more coherent and concise account
of the affair,—I am, yours truly, Anna S. Robbins.
[Received April ith, 1893.]
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1894.
L. 976. Ad Borderland.
Received through the American Branch.
The following case was received by Professor James from Mr. R.
T. Van Deusen, of 600, Addison Avenue, Albany.
Mr. Van Deusen writes :
—
Januanj 30th, 1893.
I am a collector, and of late a dealer, in old china. My home and business
are in Albany, N.Y. , where I issue a small sheet, called the China Collector.
Some 14 months since, I found an article in Scribners Magazine bearing on
the subject, and written by Mrs. A., cf Brooklyn, an entire stranger to
me. I wrote Mrs. A. at the time, and may have received three to five
letters from her, all of wliich are brief and pertaining strictly to our com-
mon interest. Once, when in New York city, I called upon Mrs. A. at her
Brooklyn home, meeting only her, and of course learning nothing of her
family. At this call Mrs. A. expressed a desire to possess a certain specimen,
which I found later on ;
and, having a trip to town in view, decided to again
call and tell her of it. Arrived at the house, I was told by a maid that Mrs.
A.'s son was very ill, and that she saw no one. In response to an inquiry, I
was told that they then regarded him as improving. I thus left the house
with the impression that he was on the road to recovery. During the next
two or three weeks I frequently considered the advisability of writing, but
hesitated for some time, fearing to intrude so trifling a matter at a time of
anxiety and care. I, however, received a complimentary copy of her book
CJiina Collecting in America, at this time, and acknowledged the same in a
note, expressing hope of recovery, &c. Very shortly after this I awoke one
morning at an earlier hour than usual (why I knew not), and fell into a doze,
from which I was wakened at about seven by the announcement, in a low
voice, close to my right ear, " Willie A. died this morning at two o'clock." I
never for a moment doubted that my wife, who sleeps in an adjoining room,
had been in and told me. It is her custom to wake me very gently, and I
believed I heard her voice. I "gathered " myself rather slowly, wondering
how Mrs. Van Deusen could have received the information. The
acquaintance between Mrs. A. and myself was of the sort described, and
there was no reason why any notification of this death should be sent us. I
went out into the hall, met my wife, and asked the question, only to receive
from her the startled reply, " Who is dead ?
" when mutual explanations and
astonishment ensued. I was so impressed with the precise and emphatic
character of the announcement that I mentioned it to two or three friends,
•and sought to find out if it was true. I was only able to learn that the lad
died that night. On my next meeting with Mrs. A. this fall I asked if the
.name of her son was Willie, and on hearing that it was not, I then explained
'my reason for asking, when Mrs. A. told me that her son did die at tivo
o'clock that morning. Mrs. A. then volunteered the information that she had
heard a similar case in connection with the death of her son.
I fancy that I was too heavy with sleep to catch the first word of the
sentence—note its order. This is the only instance of the sort that ever hap-
pened to me.
JvLY, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 285
It happened that friends came to us the day that I received the notifica-
tion of Mrs. A.'s son's death, and I mentioned the fact to them. I was sick
most of that day—a peculiar nervous dyspepsia and accompanying disturb-
ance. I knew this was not due to the knowledge of this boy's death. There
•was no reason why I should feel his death. I think I was not much impressed
with the occurrence until it became the subject of talk.
Do you suppose that the disturbance of my nervous centres was in any
way connected with the incident, and if so, how ? T am 33 years old, and
am fairly strong.
Robert Thompson Van Deusen.
In a later communication, Mr. Van Deusen said that he was unable
to give the exact date of his experience, having made no note of it.
After ascertaining that it was on the same morning that the boy
died, he ceased to feel any active interest in it.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's request for corroboration, Mrs. Van
Deusen wrote :
—
The Addison, Middlebury, Vt., March 2,1st, 1893.
Dear Sir, —Your letter to Mr. Van Deusen requesting a statement from
me was duly received.
I have a distinct recollection of my husband's asking rae that morning
whether I had told him of the death of Mrs. A.'s son, and his surprise at
my reply that I had not been in the room, and knew nothing of it. Indeed,
I did not even know she had a son, so slight was the acquaintance. T only
know of Mrs. A. as one of Mr. Van Deusen's customers. My husband
seemed much impressed with the occurrence, and we talked more or less of
it at the time. It gradually passed out of our minds until two or three
months later, when during a call on Mrs. A. he mentioned the circumstances
and learned the correctness of the intelligence. So much time has since
passed, that it is impossible to recall names of those to whom it was told.
Mrs. William O. Stillman remembers the occurrence, and I presume our
maid, who was much in the dining-room in attendance on the table, might
remember it, but she has left me, and I have not her address.
Mr. Van Deusen wrote to Mrs. A. for permission to give her address, as
you requested, but has received no reply.
Alys B. Deusen.
Dr. Hodgson wrote to Mrs. Stillman, asking for her recollections of
the occurrence, and received the following reply :
—
287, State Street, Albany, February 27th, 1893.
Dear Mr. Hodgson, —This morning I received your note about Mr. Van
Deusen's experience, and regret I made no note at the time. He told me
the day after he received the impression that a voice said to him the night
before: " Little Willie A. died at — o'clock." He told me the hour, but I
have forgotten it. Shortly afterwards he said to me that he heard from
Mrs. A. that the hour at which her little boy died was the hour he had heard,
and I was quite struck by the coincidence. - Very truly yours,
Frances Stillman.
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1894.
CORRESPONDENCE.
APPARENT DUALITY OP CONSCIOUSNESS UNDER MORBID CONDITIONS.
The following letter was addressed to Mr. Myers :
—
Dear Sir, —Chancing to read in one of oar American newspapers what
purported to be a letter from the novelist, Robert Louis Stevenson, addressed
to yourself, and describing certain psychological phenomona of personal
•experience during abnormal mental states of the noted author,* I venture to
send some similar items from my own past. Both bear on the interesting
point of the seeming duality of consciousness in certain mental conditions.
Item I.
Some fifteen days after the birth of my first child, I was suffering from
fever. I had never been ill previously within my recollection, and was a
liealthy young woman of 23 years. One afternoon, when I had been feverish
ffor three days, a neighbour came in to chat with me. I will call her Mrs. A.
While conversing rationally with her I found myself carrying on a second
imaginary conversation with another friend, Mrs. B., who I well knew was
not in the room, though her presence was as real to me as that of Mrs. A.
I had self-control enough, however, to think, not speak, my replies to my
fancied visitor, and Mrs. A. afterwards said that my manner towards her
was perfectly natural. However, I knew that I was bordering on delirium ;
knew that the figure of Mrs. B., seated beside my bed, was a creature of my
fancy ; knew that the words which 1 seemed to hear from her were
imaginary ; and I even tried to prevent myself from thinking my replies,
but that I could not do. I could only control myself enough to keep from
speaking, the thoughts would form themselves in spite of my efforts to the
contrary. By the way, my imaginary conversation with my imaginary friend
was not delirious in itself ; it was some commonplace chit-chat such as
would most possibly have passed had the lady really been present. Even at the
time it struck me as being strange that one part of my mind could keep
watch over a semi-delirious part and control it. I noted that Mr. Stevenson
:spoke of having the same experience.
A fortunate change for the better saved me from further unpleasant
fancies.
Itevi II.
When a little past 28 years of age I underwent a surgical operation
necessitating the use of ether for about an hour and a-half. Upon returning
to consciousness part of my mind seemed to be abnormally acute ; at first
only at intervals, with shorter and shorter lapses into insensibility, of
which lapses, however, I was thoroughly cognisant so soon as each one
passed. But I felt instinctively that all of my bodily senses were disordered, or
rather dulled, and I doubted not only their evidence but also distrusted part
•of my own mental action, though I fully trusted the other part, and let it sit
in judgment on the unreliable portion. I remember thinking to myself that
if one were in such a state for any length of time, the fact that he could not
* See Mr. Myers' paper on " The Subliminal Consciousness," in ProceedinysS.'P.'R.-,
Part XXIv., Vol. IX., p. 9.
•July, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 287
trust his own senses and thoughts, but was only a brain with no reliable
inlets or outlets, would soon bring on insanity. When I could not trust the
•evidence of my own touch as to whether bandages had been put on me or
jiot, though I expressly attempted to find out, still I was carefully noting
every mental action, and felt that I was ohmvcincj the same correcthj. I could
not determine whether I had been operated upon or not, and painfully took
note of the disposition of the furniture of my room, painfully forced myself
to remember the operating table and all the arrangements of basins, hot
-water vessels, &c., and then with infinite labour drew the conclusion that
'the operation had been performed, and verified it to myself, carrying on the
whole during about four lucid intervals, each followed by a few moments of
insensibility ; and also, as I before stated, kept close watch over all my
thoughts and feelings, as if I had been looking into some other person's brain
through the agency of a fairy godmother or other gracious magician.
I remember thinking that my experience might work into some literary
attempts which I was thinking of making. Still, for several days beforehand
I had not thought of this same article. The idea sprang from the clear part
of my brain, and was suggested to it from its own observations on my state.
I believe Mr. Stevenson spoke of feeling the same thing with reference to
.an attack of semi-delirium from which he suffered.
I found that I could trust the sense of hearing best ;
next, that of
sight ;
lastly, that of touch. Smell and taste were temporarily destroyed,
of course, by the action of the ether.
The nurse attendant said th'it my first words were rational, and that I
said nothing flighty. Before I could control myself enough to speak con-
tinuously, 1 told her in isolated sentences how I felt, and how queer it seemed
motto be able to trust one's own self.
Hoping that the above may be of interest, I remain,
(Mrs.) V. A. Lucier,
San Luis Potosi, Old Mexico, October Wth, 1893.
With the above we may compare the following case of a vivid and
somewhat complicated impression of dual personality, occurring
•apparently in the absence of any morbid condition whatever.
The HoUies. Merthyr Tydfil, December 29th, 1891.
In the early part of January, 1890, I was at Aberdeen, reading for my
second professional examination in medicine. I was in good health, not in
any grief or anxiety, and had not been overworking. At that time I was 23
years old.
One afternoon I had been reading notes on surgery, and was resting on
the sofa in the room in a semi-recumbent posture. I was thinking over
the reading for the next day, and arranging my times to suit lecture hours.
In the room were two friends of mine, H. T. H. and R. N. de B. H. was
writing at the table, De B. was at the piano playing some operatic airs. Da
B. left the room and went out of the house. Shortly after this I felt much
in the same condition that one does in a bad nightmare. I was unable to
move in any direction, but felt bound hand and foot. I, however, could move
my eyes in any direction, and I could also open and shut my eyelids easily.
I was quite conscious of everything in the room, and noted the time, 3.49,
looked at the note-book in front of H. , and saw that he was transcribing
Materia Medica notes, and in fact I was well aware of every single thing
going on in the room.
I then began arguing in my mind as to whether I could possibly be asleep
288 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1894.
or not. I remained in this conditioji for nearly three minutes by the clock.
I had a continual feeling all this time that some otlier force was
"inhibiting" my movements. This force seemed to act, and seemed to be
concentrated at a spot about a yard away from me. It seemed to be situated
at a level of my shoulders, and slightly behind me.
Whilst arguing with myself as to whether I was asleep or not, I suddenly
seemed to divide into two distinct beings. The force that occasioned this
was that which I have described above. One of these bein;i;s remained
motionless on the sofa ; the other could move some little distance, and could
actually look at the motionless body on the sofa. There existed between these
two " beings " an elastic force which prevented the one from severing its
connection with the other. At will I could make the second " being" lie on
the floor, or move some distance about the room. As the distance between
the two beings became greater, so did the elastic force seem to become more
powerful. A limit was soon reached at which no effort of will could effect a
further severance. This limit was about two yards. When this limit was
reached, I could feel resistance to the separating efforts in both " beings."
During this time, as before, I retained perfect consciousness of what was
hapi^ening in the room. De B. had returned. I saw and heard him come in ;
he commenced to play the piano again, and H. was making wry faces at the
music. After a great effort I managed to call H.'s name. He looked round
and went on writing. Afterwards he gave as his reason for not answering
that he thought I was " fooling " him.
The dual condition continued for five minutes more. Then fusion seemed
to set in. I resisted the feeling of fusion. It could be prevented at will.
Eventually, Avith a curiosity to know "what was going to happen next," I
allowed it to proceed. The two beings then rapidly united again. I tried to
get into the dual condition again. This seemed to be prevented by the same
force that " inhibited " me at first.
1 then began to think out a theory to account for all these sensations,
and during this time the inhibiting force grew weaker and gradually
disappearecl. There was no sensation of waking, but simply a slow cessation
of the conditions. The whole time I was actively engaged not only in theo-
rising, but in recording events in the room, to see whfther I observed them
accurately or not. As it turned out, my observations had been minutely
correct. I continued to remain in the same position on the sofa ; I was
anxious to see "if anything more was going to happen." Nothing did
happen, so in the course of ten minutes I got up and related my experiences
to my friends. They were much amused, but very much inclined to doubt
the whole affair. Their idea seemed to me to be that I had been all this
time manufacturing something to tell them.
I am now in practice as a medical man. I have inquired of many people
with regard to such phenomena as I have described. None as yet whom
I have asked have experienced anytliing of the kind. This is my apology for
communicating the above to you.
I have seen in my practice a case of epileptiform dual personality, but I
do not think that my experiences have anything in common with such cases.
My idea was at the time that probably the motor centres of my brain were
asleep, the rest of the brain being in a fairly active condition.
C. E. G. Simons, M.B., CM.
CORRECTION.
June 22nd, 1894.
SiK, In the report of my remarks in the June number of this journal,
p. 261, the words " debris of disintegrating souls " should read "disintegrating
debris of souls,"—a distinction of high importance.
—
Edward Maitland.
No. CXIII.—Vol. VI. October, 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates 289
Meeting of the Council . .
' 290
Cases received by the Literary Committee 290
Account of .Some Experiments in Apparent Clairvoyance . . . . , 296
Correspondence 302
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are iwinted in Black Type-
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Dem, John, Walsingham, Chislehurst.
Fletcher, MRs.K.R.,The Orchard, Buckland, near Betchworth, Surrey.
GELL,H.W.,M.A.,M.D.(Oxon),M.R.C.S.,.36,HydeParkSq.,London,W.
Harding, G. Palmer, Trouville, France,
Hayward, Miss Grace G., 25, St. George!s Road, Kilburn, N.W.
KoTHEN, Baron Axel von, 27, Mikealsgatan, Helsingfors, Finland.
Mitchiner,, J. H., Acacias, Barham Road, South Croydon. .
*0cH0R0Wicz, Dr. J., 23, Rue Vladimir, Warsaw. . .
Percival, Mrs., 2, Southwick Place, London, W.
Whitehead, Miss Mergia D., Mostyn House, Cambridge.
Winchester, H., M.B., CM., Oak Bank, Fort Augustus, Inverness, N.B.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Baldwin, Mrs. Albert, Esplanade Avenue, cor. Derbigny Street, New
Orleans, Lousiana.
Brooks, Dr. John P., BuUer Building, Providence, R. I.
Chase, Harvey S., 12, West 31st Street, New York, N.Y.
Earl, John Charles, 236 E 27 Street, New York, N. Y.
Hawk, Walter S., Doniphan, Nebraska.
Jackson, Mrs., 16, Rue des Bassins, Paris.
Librarian, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
McDonald, C. C, Kimball House, Davenport, Iowa.
Merrill, Miss H. B., 717, Jefferson Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Parks, George P., Bedford, Indiana.
Wing, Isaac H., Bayfield, Wisconsin.
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894,
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Society's Rooms, 19,
Buckingham-street, on October 5th, Professor H. Sidgwick in the
chair. There were also present : Professor W. Ramsay, Colonel
Hartley, Dr. A. W. Barrett, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, Dr. Leaf, and
Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore,
S. C. Scott, and H. A. Smith.
The minutes of the last meeting were read, and signed as correct.
Dr. J. Ochorowicz, of Warsaw, was elected an Honorary Associate
for the ensuing year. Two new Members and eight new Associates
were elected. The election of two new Members and nine new Asso-
ciates of the American Branch was recorded. The names and addresses
a,re given above.
The Council r'ecorded with regret the death of the Rev. W. Roby
Fletcher, Vice-Ohancellor of the University of Adelaide, Australia,
who joined the Society almost at its commencement ; and also the
decease of Mrs. Dickinson, an Associate of the Society.
Several presents to the library were on the table from Professor
Janet, Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, Mr. G. F. Bidder, and Mr.
F. Podmore, for which a vote of thanks was accorded.
A variety of other matters having claimed the attention of the
Council, it was agreed that its next meeting be at Westminster Town
Hall, on Friday, the 26th inst., at 3 p.m., previous to the General
Meeting arranged for 4 p.m. on that day.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
P.—147.
The following interesting cases of presentiment were sent to us by
Professor G. Hulin, of the University of Ghent, who wrote to
Professor Sidgwick on April 1.3th, 1894 :
—
Ghent, Place de I'Eveche, 3.
Dear Sir, —At the congress of Psychology held at Paris in 1889, I had
the honour of making your acquaintance, and had a conversation with your-
self and Mrs. Sidgwick about second sight and similar subjects. At that
time, I had never within my immediate experience come across any certain
and well-established fact of the sort. Since then I had the occasion of
observing a case of presentiment which struck me because it is certified by
trustworthy witnesses, and, if a mere coincidence, it is certainly a most
extraordinary one. So, although I own I am still rather sceptical about
Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 291
that class of phenomena, I send you herewith a narrative of the facts, think-
ing the case may interest you. I take the liberty of writing it in French, as
I want to be sure of the correctness of my statements.
Georges Hulin.
Vers le commencement de I'hiver 1890-91, un jeune homme du nom de
Charles-Louis^Casset, du village de Loo-ten-Hulle (Flandre Orientale), oil ma
famille a sa residence d'ete, annonga, pres de deux mois a I'avance, qu'il
amenerait au tirage au sort pour la milice, le numero 90 (on sait que le
recrutement de I'armee Beige se fait par voie de conscription). Plusieurs
personnes entendirent cette prediction, faite sur un ton de parfaite assurance,
et qu il renouvela devant le commissaire d'arrondissement presidant au
tirage au sort. A la stupefaction g^nerale, ce numero sortit en effet.
Le bruit en etant parvenu a nos oreilles, je voulus m'assurer de
I'authenticite du fait, et interrogeai plusieurs personnes, entre autres la mere
du jeune homme. Tous m'affirmerent avoir entendu la prediction. Je
m'adressai alors au commissaire d'arrondissement, M. van Dooren, qui
me donna I'attestation ecrite que voici :
. . . "Cette annee-ci, le milicien Casset, Clis Ls, de Loo-ten-
Hulle, me demanda, avant de tirer, si le no 90 se trouvait encore dans
I'urne ; sur ma reponse afBrmative il s'^cria :
'
C'est celui-la qu'il me faut !
'
Appele a tirer, il amena en efifet le numero 90.
" Le Commissaire d'Arrondissement,
(Signe) " JcLBS van Dooren."
En presence de ce temoignage officiel le doute n'etait plus permis. Tres-
intrigue, je tachai de savoir comment le jeune homme avait eu ce pressenti-
ment,
Au f)rintemps, quand mes parents furent retournes a Loo-ten-Hulle, je le
fis venir ^i, la maison, et I'interrogeai. Jusque-la. il n'avait voulu repondre
h, personne ; sans doute je lui inspirai plus de contiance, car, apres quelques
hesitations, il me fit le recit suivant.
Comme la plupart des fils de petits cultivateurs, il avait grand peur du
service militaire, qui devait priver sa famille de son travail. Plusieurs mois
d'avance il dtait done preoccupe et anxieux, et pensait constamment au jour
fatal du tirage au sort.
Environ deux mois avant celui-ci, une nuit qu'il venait de se coucher, il
vit dans un coin de sa chambre une forme indistincte, mais grande et elevee,
de sorte que de son lit il devait lever les yeux pour la voir. La seule chose
qu'il pouvait clairement percevoir, c'etait le chifFre 90 en grands caracteres,
" espaces d'environ un poing."
II S3 souleva, ferma les yeux et les rouvrit pour bien s'assurer qu'il ne
revait point. L'apparition etait toujours la, aussi indeniable qu'au premier
moment. Saisi de frayeur, il se mit a prier, et ainsi, peu a peu, s'endormit.
Des le premier moment il avait eu I'intuition que ce nombre 90 etait
celui qu'il tirerait et que c'etait un bon numero.
A partir de cette nuit, il eut I'esprit tout-a-fait tranquille et dit a tous
ceux qui s'etonnaient de ce calme qu'il savait qu'il aurait le numero 90. On
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894.
crufc d'abord a une plaisanterie, mais il affirmait cela avec tant de conviction
que bientot il excita la curiosity.
Comme je lui demandais s'il avait dans sa vie eu d'autres visions, il me
dit que non, mais que, apres la premiere apparition, 11 eut sou vent la meme
vision, meme le jour, pendant son travail. II ajoutait judicieusement que ce
n'etaient plus sans doute de vraies apparitions, mais seulement I'efFet de
son imagination vivement frappee.
Cependant il croit avoir reelleraent revu I'apparition rri yst^rieuse dans la
chambre ou se faisait le tirage au sort, avant de plonger la main dans le
tambour. II dit au president qu'il etait inutile qu'il tirat, que son num^ro
^tait 90. Le president lui rdpondit de ne pas plaisanter et de prendre un
billet. En tendant celui-ci au president, il repeta que c'etait 90.
Ce recit me fut fait avec un gran^i air de sincerite et de scrupuleuse
exactitude. Le jeune homme, qui semble doux et intelligent, parlait k voix
basse avec une emotion visible, et me demanda de ne rien dire aux autres
habitants du village. II croit evidemment a une intervention surnaturelle.
Je m'adressai encore au commissaire d'arrondissement pour lui
demander s'il se rappelait d'autres cas nu des miliciens avaient predit le
nnni^ro qu'ils tireraient. A cette epoque (1891) il ne s'en rajapelait qu'un
seul, qu'il voulut bien me certifier par ecrit en meme temps que celui
rapporte plus haute :
" en 1886, au tirage au sort a Eedoo, le milicien Masca
(Ferdinand), de cette ville, m'a declare, avant le tirage, qu'il amenerait le
no 112, ce qui fut vrai."
Depuis, il m'a signale trois autres cas : I'hiver dernier ou le precedent (sa
lettre n'est malheureusement pas datee, et mes souvenirs ne sont pas precis
sur ce point), il m'ecrivait ce qui suit :
" Un fait bizarre et digne d'etre racont^ s'est produit mercredi dernier
au tirage au sort pour la milice a Maldeghem. Un inscrit du nom de
Pamvels (Edouard), de la commune d'Adeghem, en s'approchant de I'urne
d^clara hautement au commissaire d'arrondissement qui presidait la seance,
qu'il amenerait le n'' 216, et ce fut en effet ce num^ro qu'il tira et qui fut
proclame. II y avait encore au moins 150 numeros dans le tambour. Le
plus has nmnero Stait 46 et le plus eleve 223."
Enfin, cet hiver meme, il m'a envoy^ avec sa carte de visite un journal
contenant I'entrefilet ci-joint, concernant deux nouveaux cas constates par
lui-meme.
The newspaper cutting enclosed is as follows :
—
Fevrier, 1894.
TiRAQE AU Sort. —Deux faits bizarres se sont produits au tirage au sort
qui eu lieu a Eecloo, samedi dernier.
Le milicien Camille Pyfferoen, s'approchant de I'urne, di^clara a M. le
commissaire d'arrondissement, qui presidait les operations, qu'il avait reve,
la nuit passee, qu'il amenait le numero 111, et qu'il etait convaincu que le
sort I'aurait favorise de ce bon numero.
L'interesse amena, en effet, le n° 111. M. le commissaire lui ayant
demand^ si ce qu'il avait declare etait bien reel, le milicien appela son pere
en confirmation d e ses dires.
Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 293
Un second milicien, Louis Crispyn, annonija qu'il amenerait le n° 116 ;
mais sur I'observation que celui-ci etait deja tire, il declara qu'il prendrait
alors le numero precedent, et il tira, en effet, le n'-- 115.
The following are cases of apparent clairvoyance regarding public
events in which the percipients took no personal interest. A few
instances of a similar kind were published in Fhmitasms of the
Living, Vol. II., pp. .365—370. See also the Journal S. P. R., A^ol.
T., p. 258 and p. 322.
The first case was contained in a letter from Mrs. T. A. Williams
to her nephew, Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson^ of Bang's College, Cambridge,
through whom we received it.
M CI.—88. Dream.
Rossljni Cottage, Pilgrim's Lane, Hampstead, July 2oth, 1894.
On Monday morning, at about 8 o'clock, Arthur got up and went to call
Phdip whom he woke out of a sound sleep. Philip's door is nearly opposite
ours, and I heard them laughing, and called out to know what the joke
was. Arthur came back and told me Philip had had an absurd dream
that the President Carnot had been assassinated. I said I saw nothing
"funny" in that, and he answered, "Oh! the joke was that he dreamed
that M R (a young Frenchman who lives m Hampstead) had
announced the news, adding that he expected to be elected President," at
wliich we aU three laughed agaua.
Arthur dressed and in about half-an-hour went down-stah's, rushing up
again almost immediately, shouting to Phil (whose door was then locked)
" He is assassinated," and pointing out the announcement in large print in
the Daily JSleivs.
A strange part of it is that Philip takes little or no interest m politics of
any kind, and declares that, to the best of his recollection, Carnot's name
has not been mentioned m his hearing. Carnot was stabbed at 9.30 on
Sunday night, and died about 4 hours afterwards.
E. B. Williams.
Thornton A. Williams.
Philip H. Williams.
The two last signatures are those of Mrs. Williams' husband and
the percipient, her son.
The date of the assassination of President Carnot was Sunday,
June 24th, 1894.
M 01 89. Dream.
From Miss Robertson, 1, Oakley-street, Chelsea.
Sunday, June 24:th, 1894.
I slept badly last night. I went to sleep about 2 a.m., and woke about
4. Got up and went into my sitting-room. Went back and slept from about
5.30 to 7.30, when the servant awoke me by coming upstairs, but not into
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894.
my room. I then remembered that some one had said to me in the night,
"The Duchess of York is confined, and the child is a boy." I had also
dreamed some nonsense about the child's title ; that he was to be called
"Chevalier" or to be made a baronet. This was probably the result of
something I had been reading in an Italian book last night. I remember
the sentence ;
" Moriro cavaliere, e il mio destino." I thought of getting
my diary, or going to tell my mother, but was lazy and incredulous. At 8
the servant brought my breakfast and the Sunday Times, which my mother
had cut, hut not opened. I thought no more of my dream, but began the
paper at the first page, and found the news on the fifth page. I had not
expected the paper, or I should really have told my mother my dream. The
newspaper had come to the house about 7.30, and had not been looked at by
anyone. I should say that I had no idea when the confinement was
expected, whether this month or next, and had thought as little about the
matter as well could be ;
being quite easy in my mind about the succession.
NoEA Robertson.
In this case it is of course possible that the percipient might
once have known what the probable date of the event would be,
and have retained an unconscious memory of it, though perhaps her
want of interest in the subject of her dream makes this an im-
probable explanation. The following experience, which occurred to
Miss Robertson a few days earlier than the above, seems worth
giving in connexion with it.
July 21th [1894.]
During this summer I have been teaching English to an Italian friend.
He had the habit of jotting down questions, idioms, or odd words on backs
of letters and cards, and bringing them to me for explanation.
On the night of July 11th or 12th I was on the point of falling asleep
(about 11 or 11.30), when I was roused by hearing my friend ask me, "What
is a detached house 1 What is the Italian for a detached house ?" The
question woke me entirely, and after some thought I decided that " casa
staceata " was the proper translation. I then went to sleep. I am not sure
that it was on the next day, or the day after, that my friend brought me a
list of eight or ten questions. Half waj down he had written, " What is a
detached house 1 What is the Italian for detached house ?
"
I then told him of my dream. He could not remember when he had
written the question, but told me that as he suffered from sleeplessness he
frequently wrote or copied his difficulties, or at least thought about them,
after he had gone to bed.
My dream voices hardly ever seem external to me, and this did not, but
it spoke with an Italian accent.
I ought to add that we had never mentioned detached houses to each other
before. N. Robektson.
M CI.—90. Impression.
The following case was sent us by a lady in the course of
collecting answers for the Census of Hallucinations. The impression
Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 295
does not seem to have been a fully externalised sensory hallucination,
but resembles some of the cases of "visions" and "pseudo-
hallucinations" that were given in the Report on the Census. (See
Proceedings S. P, R., Part XXVI, pp. 83—92). The percipient's
name was given us in confidence. The account was written in the
early part of 1892.
Wednesday, November 18th [1891], I was lying on a sofa about 2
p.m. in half doze, when my thoughts reverted to Southsea, where I had
spent about a fortnight in .June last. A mental picture, realistic enough
almost for a dream, of the animation and stir of the pier and steamboats
interested me, when all at once my mind became absorbed with the
conception of a barge-like vessel with diving apparatus engaged in some
submarine work. The impression of something being wrong, with a hurried
agitated effort to raise a diver from the water, impressed me. There
seemed to be a difficulty in working the winding-up machine, and in my
dream, or semi-dream, I was excited with the fear that they would fail to
get the diver up alive through the apparent hitch. At last, in my
reverie, they succeeded in raismg him, and then, as if I were in the
barge, I seemed to see the helmet removed, and the diver was dead. I
thought no more of the matter except as a rather peculiar instance of a half-
awake dream. But the next day, when reading the Daily News, I was
startled on coming across a paragraph stating in effect that "yesterday
morning " (the day of my mental impression, dream, or call it what you
will), whilst a diving party were engaged in doing something to some chain
moorings in Portsmouth Harbour, the diver got probably in some way
entangled, and signalled to be taken up. The effort was at once made to do
so, but considerable delay was occasioned by the supposed obstacle, and
when at last he was brought to the surface he was quite dead, black in the
face, and blood oozing from his mouth and nostrils. Struck with the at
least remarkable coincidence, I read the paragraph to my wife and a lady
who was present, as answering so precisely in every particular to my mental
impression of the previous day, which could not have been more than three
or four hours at [most] from the time the accident actually occurred.
The lady through whom the case was received writes :
—
May mh, 1892.
I called upon Mr. , and he said that he had not mentioned his dream
(or vision) to any one until some hours afterwards, when the newspaper came
in. A Miss -, an elderly lady who was present when I called, said that she
was also there when the newspaper came in, and remembered his exclamation
of surprise and his saying '
' Why, this is the very thing I dreamed of yester-
day," or some words of that sort.
The following is the account of the incident given in the Daily
News of Thursday, Nov. 19th, 1891.
Death of a Diver on Duty. —Yesterday morning a party of men
were engaged in repairing the moorings of the Corporation Buoy in Ports-
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.,
mouth Harbour, which had been damaged during the recent gale. A diver
named Luke went down, but he had been below only four or live minutes,
when he gave the customary signal for being hauled up, having apparently
become entangled. Some difficulty was experienced in getting him above
water, but this having been accomplished and the helmet removed, he was
found to be black in the face and bleeding from the nose. As soon as
possible he was conveyed to the Harbour Railway Station, where he was
found to be dead.
ACCOUNT OF SOME EXPERIMENTS IN APPARENT
CLAIRVOYANCE.
By Michael Petrovo-Solovovo.
The experiments I am going to describe took place on June 7th
and 9th, 1894, with a lady whom—as she is most anxious to con-
ceal her identity—I shall call M^i^ P.*. Slie lives generally at S.,*
a town in the South East of Russia, where—being subject to attacks
of hystero-epilepsy—she is one of the inmates of the local Asylum for
incurable patients. I understand that such attacks were much more
severe and more frequent before (as many, in fact, as ninety in the
course of a single month !), and that her sufferings were greatly re-
lieved by Dr. Hovrin, one of the physicians at the S. hospital, who
tried the effect of suggestion on her for the iirst time several years
ago, and who has taken care of her ever since.
It was Dr. Hovrin, I believe, who was the first to assert the exist-
ence in Mile P. of supernormal powers, and ever since he made,
or thought he made, this discovery he has been trying to call the
attention of all competent persons to the alleged phenomena. So far
as I know, his efforts have been to a certain - extent successful, and
jyXUe p_'s name is now known in Russia to many persons having
no direct connexion with her and her physician. However, it is not
my purpose to discuss the evidence for her " clairvoyance " or to relate
previous experiments—concerning which I know but little. I wish to
describe only what I saw myself and should have left out all these
details altogether were it not necessary to account for the presence at
the sittings of a third or fourth person—Dr. Hovrin. The time may
possibly come for a general examination and discussion of all the
available evidence for M^^ p.'s clairvoyance ; but it is clear to me
—and to some others—that it has not come yet. M'le P. is also
anxious that it should not be stated in print why she and her physician
came to Petersburg from S., and so I can only say, without giving any
names, that it was at the desire of a most distinguished personage who
* Both initial.s are fictitious.
Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 297
had heard of M^^^ P.'s alleged powers, and was anxious to see her
and have the matter investigated. Some experiments were therefore
arranged and made—at which, however, he was not generally present.
The results are not yec known to me, tliough so far as I know, they
must have been inconclusive either way ;
and, as the trials were but
few, will probably never appear in print, and have no bearing on the
bona fides of the " subject," I shall do nothing but mention them.
I made M^^^ P.'s acquaintance towards the end of her stay in
Petersburg, which was undoubtedly unfortunate. She at once showed
an entire willingness to give me the opportunity of witnessing
personally her phenomena, and I met with the same readiness and
courtesy in Dr. Hovrin, to both of whom I wish to express my
sincerest thanks for their kindness. I must also mention that M^'^ P.
produced on me a most favourable impression from the very be-
ainning, and that I believe her to be honest and intelligent. As for
Dr. Hovrin, all that I can say is that it would be a perfect insult to
him to discuss the question of his honesty and veracity, and that,
besides, he deserves the sympathy of every student of "psychics
"
for his constant endeavours to call the attention of the scientific world
to the matter, and his efibrts to secure for the experiments the strictest
and most conclusive conditions possible.
I now proceed to give the details of the experiments.
Report of Sittings.
(From notes taken at the time, and an account of the first sitting written
on the next day.
)
Sitting I.
I called on Ml'e p. and her physician, Dr. Hovrin, at 1.30 p.m. on
Thursday, 7tli of June. I saw Dr. Hovrin first. He said to me that his
patient, MUe p., had been ill all the time. He therefore much doubted
if the experiments would succeed. It was, however, decided to try some.
I had brought with me five or six glass tubes with silk of difi'erent colours
bought on the same day and carefully stopped. Dr. Hovrin, however, called
my attention to the fact that it would be perhaps difficult to define the
colour of the silk, the shades being too complex, and proposed to try aniline
instead, to which I consented. He had in his possession severaltubes
already filled (and used in previous experiments referred to in the introduc-
tion) : we emptied them first and then filled them again—each glass tube
with a different colour of aniline from the one previously used, I believe,
after which I wrapped them up in paper. M'le p. was then asked to
come in. She said she was ill and undoubtedly looked so. I therefore
:
suggested postponing the experiments, but on reflection we decided to see
what could be done under these unfavourable conditions. As a first trial,
Mile p. sitting with her back to the light and lier hands beliind her back
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894.
and covered with her shawl, I gave her one of the glass tubes to hold.
This experiment was a failure :
Ml'e p. did not see anything.
We then decided to make an experiment, of which I had already heard,
in the case of M^e p., similar to one often made by tlie late Dr. Charcot,
but under peculiar conditions, which in Dr. Hovrin's opinion tended to dis-
prove Charcot's poinU de repere theory. I took nine or ten loose sheets of
writing paper (middle size, rough surface) out of a very great number pre-
viously brought by Dr.Hovrin (among which was a whole unopened packet)
chose one of them and marked it with a very faint pencil mark ;
then a
piece of cuhnmid paper (blue or violet) was placed on the immarTted surface,
and the whole covered with a double sheet of cigarette-paper, so that nothing,
but the general shape and colour of the leaf were visible. M^e P.
then came in —having remained out of the room all the time— and Dr.
Hovrin suggested to her (as always in the normal state) that she would
always see this bins mark on this very same sheet of paper. After having
looked at it for some time MUe P. was asked by me to leave the room,
and I put the selected sheet of paper back among the rest and shufHed them
all. Mile p. then tried to find it and failed. Here unfortunately my
notes are not clear, but if my memory does not deceive me, the experiment
was then repeated, and this time successfully.
I cannot lay much stress on the following experiment, in which the
"subject "was told to see a hallucinatory portrait of myself on a blank
page, uncovered, and which succeeded, for it is obvious that under such con-
ditions Charcot's theory holds good, the more so as MUe P. and myself
were sitting near the window; but the following circumstance was interesting.
This experiment was repeated three times, and the percipient said twice
that she saw my portrait npside down, which (on referring to my pencil
mark on the other side of the page) I each time found to be correct. To
verify this curious circumstance, I retired into the adjoining room and
turned the leaf up and down several times ; and then, not knowing myself
which way was my " head " and which way my " feet," I came back and
showed the leaf to MUe P., who gave a correct answer at once (which I
could of course verify by referring to my pencil mark). I repeated this ex-
periment twelve times, and in no case did MUe p. make a single mistake,
recognising at once where the " head " or " feet " were ; and I can say
that the impression produced on me was that she really saio a hallucinatory
image, and that hypertesthesia of sight had nothing to do with the matter.
It must be added that MUe P. never touched the sheet, which I generally
placed on a chair, I should say, at a distance of one and a-half metre from
her face, and that besides, in most cases, I could not have given any uncon-
scious hidication, not knowing myself whether my " portrait " was turned
upside down or not.
This looked decidedly encouraging, and so we decided to try the experi-
ment again, with the selected sheet covered ; and this time successfully. This,
result I consider remarkable, for it must be understood that every precau-
tion was taken to prevent MUe p. from seeing the sheet micovered, and
that, as I have said before, under these conditions nothing but the general
shape and colour of the leaf were visible. It will be remembered that a
Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
triangle cut out of a piece of violet paper had been placed on the .selected
sheet before being covered with cigarette-paper. On a .second trial the same
experiment was a failure, but was then repeated a third time—and this
time successfully, M^e P. also correctly indicating whicli way the
hallucinatory triangle was turned. I felt greatly interested in this latter
circumstance— the percipient correctly indicating the position of the
hallucinatory image -and verified it by a new series of trials similar to
those I have already described, with the same precautions and as success-
fully as before. We then decided to test M^e P.'s supernormal percep-
tion of colours, using the glass tubes we had prepared, with the following
results :
—
Colour cJiosen. Colour seen.
(i.e., glass tube prepared by Dr. (on a wMe counterpane).
H. and myself.) The percipient did not see any-
White, thing and said so. (According
to Dr. H. white always produces
this effect on M^e P.)
Qi-een The percipient saw "yellowspots."
Red. Red.
Blue. Blue.
In these experiments MUe P. always left the room before I had
chosen, or taken at random (in the first two cases), the tubes (which, it will be
remembered, were wrapped in paper), and I am perfectly certain that in no
case did she see the colour normally. As for tlie way in which we pro-
ceeded for these trials, it was as follows : P. and Dr. Hovrin had
in their possession a large box hermetically closed with the exception of
two openings, one opposite the other, to which were adjusted what I shall
call for want of a better term two sleeves made of cloth. When M^e P.
was out of the room I took one of the tubes, and holding it in my hand
thrust my arm through one of the sleeves into the box, and after M^e P.
had come back she put one arm into the box through the other opening, and
I then gave her the glass tube to hold, which she continued to do till the end
of the experiment. It is obvious that under such conditions the possibility
of M'le P. knowing the colour through the sense of sight was practically
excluded. I watched her all the time, and am positive that normal sight had
nothing to do with the result. And the box was certainly not a trick box,
having been specially made for the experiments referred to in the inti-o-
duction.
Owing to the percipient feeling tired the seance here ended. It was for
the same reason that but a limited number of experiments were made. ^
I
asked M^^ P. to give me a second sitting if possible, to which she readily
consented, and on June 9th we had a
Second Sitting,
at which, besides myself, my wife was present.
The conditions were apparently as unfavourable as on the first day, in view
of the fact that M^e P. persisted in complaining of her health being very
poor. Still some undoubtedly curious results were obtained.
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894.
At first the portrait experiment was rejDeated (the selected sheet of paper
being uncovered) and succeeded quite well. As I have said before, however,
a certain acuteness of sight is sufficient to account for the result. At the
same time, my wife reminds me that while Dr. Hovrin was making the
necessary suggestion to M^e p. she looked much more on my wife (whose
portrait she was to see) than on the blank page lying before her on the
-window-sill. Dr. Hovrin had said to me during the first sitting that M^e p.
could also find out whether a glass of water had been held for some time
in the right or in the left hand by simply tasting the water. He and M^e P.
•said tliis was an experiment which nearly always succeeded, and which
was made for the first time by Baron Reichenbach. In our case, however,
no couclusive results were obtained, as we had two failures and three
successes. T may mention that we had brought our own glasses, which
looked precisely similar, and took all necessary precautions, going into
another room to hold the glasses of water—one in each hand—for five
minutes, but it is unnecessary to give more details, the results being
unsatisfactory
.
Some colour-experiments were then tried, Dr. Hovrin and myself going
out of the room to fill the glass tubes with aniline. I am not certain
whether this time my own glass tubes or Dr. Hovrin 's were used, but this
is (if little importance, as in any case no glass tubes prepared by Dr. Hovrin
before the sitting and in my absence were used, and we did all the work of
filling the tubes, &c., in the same room and at the same time.
The conditions were' the same as at the first sitting, Mile p. holding
the tube in the box. She twice said the colour was blue when it was lilac,
which certainly is rather good. She saio the colour on a white counter-
pane spread at some distance in front of her.
My wife was much interested, and Dr. Hovrin said that in his opinion
many persons must be able to do the same and asked her to try. She now
put one hand into the box and I gave her—through the other opening —
a
piece of red paper to hold. She looked at the counterpane and soon said
she saw something red. M^e P., who was sitting near said the colour
was orange. This looked encouraging, but on a second trial my wife said the
colour was blue, MUe p. saying she saw the same colour, whilst I had
given my wife the same piece of red jDaper to hold. And a third experi-
ment—with my wife guessing alone, I think—was equally unsuccessful.
Dr. Hovrin then suggested to M'le p. —I again use the word "sug-
gested," but she was, as always, wideawake—to see a hallucinatory jjortraitof
himself on a sheet of paper (chosen by my wife and privately marked by her
on the under side) covered with a double sheet of cigarette paper. This
experiment was a perfect success, the percipient also correctly indicating
which way the portrait was turned. My wife —to whom I had spoken about
this experiment before the seance, and who had been very sceptical on the
subject—was greatly surprised. There were nine sheets of paper in all ;
my
wife shuffled them herself, and M^^e p. was called back only when this
was done. At the first seance—and I think during the very first of the
portrait-experiments—I noticed that Mile P. sometimes placed one leaf
partly upon the other, so that owing to the semi-transparency of the paper
Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychiecd Research. 301
the pencil-mark could perhaps become faintly visible ; I pointed it out to
her, and she carefully avoided doing the same afterwards. I therefore find
no flaw in the experiment I have just described.
What followed was also good, though less conclusive. Dr. Hovrin and I
went out of the room, MUe P. remaining with my wife, and prepared four
solutions of citric acid, sugar, salt and quinine. I then dipped a piece of thick
paper into the preparation till it was thoroughly imbibed with it, and then
placed the piece of paper upon the percipient's bare fore-arm. M^e P.
said that in such experiments she felt the peculiar taste in her mouth.
Four trials were made ; at first the percipient could not make out any taste-
(we had been taking tea just before). The second experiment was a success,,
the percipient saying she felt the taste of salt, which was correct ; the third
a failure ("something sweet" instead of quinine), and the fourth a
success again (salt). In one of the successful cases, at least, I had taken one
of the four bottles containing the solutions at random, not knowing my-
self whether I was imbibing the piece of paper with something sweet, salt,
bitter or acid ; so that even thought-transference is here out of the ques-
tion. I say this because towards the end of the sitting we had some
indications that it would be worth while to try telepathic experiments
with Mile p.
The percipient felt tired, but unfortunately I was anxious to witness
one more experiment with a hallucinatory image on a covered sheet and.
asked MUe P. to try. This she did, but with no success : she did not
find out the right sheet, but pointed out two wrong ones instead. I doubt,
however, whether it is quite fair to take this experiment into account,
seeing that the percipient was obviously very tired.
Towards the end of the sitting we mentioned to Dr. Hovrin and
Mile- P. the experiments of some members of the English S.P.R. on
the telepathic transference of tastes. They felt interested, and Dr. H.,
retiring behind a screen in the same room, asked MUe P. what he
was tasting. She said it was something acid, which was correct, as he was
tasting citric acid. Two experiments on the telepathic transference of
colours made by myself were also partly successful. I first took some
red silk, and the percipient said she saw something red (on a sheet of
paper held before her by my wife). I then chose some green silk and
Mile P. said "blue." (According to Dr. H. and herself she always
mistakes one colour for the other.)
The seance here ended, and M^e P. and her physician having left for
S. a few days after, I had no other opportunity of seeing them.
Statement by Madame Petrovo-Solovovo.
I certify that my husband's account of what happened at the second
seance is strictly accurate. I was greatly impressed by the successful portrait-
experiment, the more so, as I had been showing my husband the day
before what could be done in that line with a certain acuteness of sight. I
also wish to point out that when I was guessing the colours, MUe P. did
not hold the piece of paper at all, so that her remarks had better not be
taken into account. She impressed me as being a thoroughly honest person
.
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894.
of very bad health, and I have no doubt, as well as my husband, of the
hona fides of the experiments.
B. N. Petrovo-Solovovo.
It is obvious that a definite conclusion can hardly be drawn from
so limited a series of experiments. Still, taken as they are, the
results look certainly encouraging (especially in view of the
percipient's bad health at the time), and Dr. Hovrin's ' subject
"
undoubtedly deserves careful attention. It is possible that at some
future time I may be able to renew these experiments with MH"^ P.,
and I have besides some reason to believe that other observers more
competent than myself are beginning to interest themselves in
M"!® P. At the same time, and while thinking that the results I
obtained are interesting and encouraging, I certainly do not claim
that they j)rove the existence of such a faculty as clairvoyance. They
constitute at best but one more link in the chain of evidence tending to
establish lucidity or second sight as a fact—which to my mind is not
quite conclusive.
Michael Petrovo-Solovovo.
38, Serghievskaia, St. Petersburg.
July \Zth, 1894.
CORRESPONDENCE.
\Tlie Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed hy Correspondents.'\
anthropology and psychical research.
Mr. Leaf, in reviewing my book, Cock Lane and Common Sense,
"has made an emendation which I gladly accept. Mr. Tylor has argued that
the undesigned coincidence of testimony, from all ages and places, demon-
strates the existence of many odd institutions, as Totemism and the
Couvade, which we might regard as mere travellers' tales, if the accounts
-were less uniform and persistent. For it is plain that we cannot cross-
examine Herodotus, Marco Polo, Sahagun, and Francesco de Avila. Finding,
however, that they report from various quarters what Australian and
African explorers (ignorant of their works) report from others, we discover
evidence in the undesigned consensus, especially as many of the queer
things described actually exist, and may be studied by travellers to-day.
1 argued that the evidence for clairvoyance, levitations, death-wraiths,
and so on, in savage and in ancient countries, was of the same character,
and was valid in the same way. But Mr. Leaf justly remarks that the
evidence is not testimony to the fact of supernatural phenomena, but to the
belief in the fact. This is perfectly true, and I have made the correction
for a new edition. When we can establish a fact here and now, it reflects
credit on the alleged fact in Kamschatka or ancient Rome. Thus, if
iscience admits (as I presume it will soon admit) that a few people can see
hallucinatory pictures in crystals, then savage and ancient practices analogous
•Oct., 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 303
to crystal-gazing may be regarded as based on a fact —that of self-hallucina-
tion. Further we cannot logically go. Yet the mere existence of this one
case does, perhaps unreasonably, strengthen my opinion that, behind the
other savage and ancient tales of clairvoyance, death-wraiths, movements of
•objects, we may also suspect the existence of supernormal facts, or facts of
some kind, hallucinatory, or the result of imposture. We have not to deal,
I think, with mere imaginative mythology. The mental conditions of
-Catholic devotees, or savages, are not the mental conditions of Mr. Crookes,
Mr. Hamilton Aide, and other observers of D. D. Home. Our con-
temporaries, if they fabled, would hardly fable exactly as Australians
fable. Some fact there is, of hallucination (and then wo ask, what force
causes the identity of hallucination ?), of imposture (and then we ask, how
is it worked ?) or of supernormal truth.
Now, in examining these alternatives I do continue to think that
the anthropological and comparative method is valid. I have shewn
that the impressions made on witnesses are everywhere and always
identical, They are, therefore, independent of conditions specially savage,
specially religious, —whatever the religion may be. Gnostic, Covenanting,
Catholic, barbaric. Consequently anthropologists like Mr. Im Thurn, or Mr.
Tregear, mmj discover the secret in New Guinea, or among Maoris, or
Pawnees ; at all events the study is one in human nature, and therefore
legitimate. An observation among Zulus or Bushmen may explain Home
or Stainton Moses.
I am unable to see that all this examination of facts or fancies remote in
space or time deserves to be shelved, till some persons here and now are
convinced that they have demonstrated the fact of clairvoyance, or what
not. We should pursue our research everywhere, in experience, and in
documents. Though I do not exactly accuse the Society for Psychical
Research of ignorance in the history of their subject, I certainly have seen
little exhibition of knowledge, except in Mr. Gurney's note on witchcraft,
Mr. Myers's essay on oracles, and Miss X's remarks on crystal gazing. If
the society were of my mind they would issue, like the Anthropological
Society, a kind of catechism on their special themes, for the use of travellers
and missionaries. Letters from travellers have lately made me aware that
Home's fire-handling trick, (known to lamblichus and the Hurons) is familiar
to Fijians, Bulgarians, and to some of the aboriginal races of India, and to
the tribes of Northern Asia. Probably there are many other examples. Are
we to neglect them till people are satisiied (by what evidence I cannot guess)
that the thing can be done here and now ? Historical research had, long
ago, indicated the existence of the belief in the power, as in the New Testa-
ment. We find the power vouched for by Lord Crawford and others, so why
not investigate savage instances in actual experience and in documents ?
This is the anthropological method. Why should Anthrojjology wait ?
Why are the stories told, and told uniformly 1 We have discounted the
mere mythopoeic explanation. Take death wraiths ; I have shewn that tlie
belief may legally lead to action in New Zealand. A man's wraith being
seen, a hasty generalisation infers, among the Maoris, that he is dead.
Often he is in perfect health, but what causes the belief among savages
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1894.
that he i.s dead 1 The psychology of the savage, as Mr. Tylor proves,
leads to no such conclusion. The soul wanders off in dreams and trance :
a Maori who sees Te Heu Heu where Te Heu Heu is not, should infer that
Te Heu is dreaming. But he infers that Te Heu Heu is dead, and adduces
many cases of such " veridical" hallucinations. On the face of it, does not
this strengthen, slightly, the conclusion of the Committee of the S.P.R. ?
To ray mind the belief, or disbelief, in death wraiths, among savages, is
already deserving of study, and students need not wait tdl any one cries
"Go!"
My own mind is far from being made up as to the veridicality of a propor-
tion iif death-wraiths beyond what chance coincidence might produce. All the
savages in the world would not convince me, by an unanimous vote, but I think
we should hear what they have to say. For their psychology, uncorrected by
observed facts, would not lead them to believe in death- wraiths, but the
reverse : dreams being much more common than death. Serious study is
seldom quite wasted, and the beliefs of savages which tally with our own
" superstitions " have received very little attention.
A. Lang.
Mr. Page Hopps writes with reference to the report of the
General Meeting of the Society on July 13th, given in the /owrwa?
for July :
—
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —The extremely brief record of my remarks (page 279)—barely two
lines—does not give the impression I wished to convey. From what I could
gather, Mr. Z. seemed to be trying to trap psychical researchers, just as some
psychical researchers have tried to trap mediums. His remark that he wished
to "tesi Mrs. SidgtvicVs I'Oivers of observation" seems to me to have much
significance. I do not know who Mr. Z. is, and I have no admiration for his
fooling ; but I am bound to say that a reading of the paper rather
strengthens my opinion that it is a case of fooling and not of fraud.
Yours truly, J. Page Hopps.
Mr. Page Hopps' distinction between "fooling" and "fraud " reminds'
me of the story of the man Avho was found carrying a sheep at some distance
from the flock to which it belonged. When discovered, he said it was "a
joke," but a jury decided that he had carried the joke too far, and the
unfortunate humourist had to suffer the penalty of sheep-stealing.
It is comparatively unimportant whether the motive actuating Mr. Z. was
a desire to test the penetration of psychical researchers, or some more
vulgar impulse. The important point is that two witnesses, on two separate
occasions, at an interval of seven months, observed him raising by instru
ments a table that he was supposed to be raising supernormally, and that,
subsequently to the second occasion, he solemnly declared that the phe-
nomena had not been "produced by normal means." There is therefore
every reason to suppose that the whole series of his performances, carried on
for some years, was a piece of systematic deception, which he never intended
to reveal.
Henry Sidgwick.
No. CXIV.—Vol. VI. November, 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE.
New Members and Associates 305.
Meeting of the Council SOq.
General Meeting-
Experience of Unusual Physical Phenomena. By Professor 0. J. Lodge, F.R.S. 306
Discussion of Professor Lodge's paper. . .. .. .. .. _ _ 335.
Appendices to Professor Lodge's paper 34g.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are iwinted in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk,
Names of Associates are ^^rinted in Small Capitals.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, Stockholm.
Caillard, Miss, Wingfield House, near Trowbridge, Wilts.
OoLLiNGWOOD, Miss A. M., 5, Addison-mansions, West Kensington, W.
Duke, Thomas, M.A., M.R.C.S., 33, Bilton-road, Rugby.
Hall, Wilfred, 9, Prior's-terrace, Tynemouth.
Kearne, Percy, 9, Aynhoe-road, West Kensington, London, W.
Linden, Miss Olga, 3, Versailles Road, Anerley, S.E.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Arthur, The Vicarage, Eccles, Manchester.
MooRAj, Fazal G., Oooper's-hill, Staines.
Robertson-Macdonald,Mrs., 3.5,Tregunter-rd., South Kensington, S.W,
Wall, Miss M. M., 51, Torrington-scpare, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Wilson, Miss, 7, Cromwell-terrace, Scarborough.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Oodman, J., Porcellian Club, Cambridge, Mass.
Hawley, C. E., 821, Asylum-avenue, Hartford, Conn.
Main, W. F., College and Dubuque-streets, Iowa City, Iowa.
Potter, E. C, 4,800, Ellis-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade, 29, East 62nd-street, New York, N.Y.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held at the Westminster Town Hall,
on October 26th, Dr. W. Leaf in the chair. There were also present
Professors O. J. Lodge, W. Ramsay, and H. Sidgwick, Dr. J. Milne
Bramwell, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore, S. C. Scott and H. A. Smith.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, of Stockholm, was elected as a Cor-
responding Member for the ensuing year. Eleven new Associates
were elected. The election of one new Member and four new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded. The names and
addresses are given above. It was agreed that the Proceedings be
sent to Dr. G. B. Ermacora, of Padua, in exchange for a new Journal
which he is bringing out, and that an arrangement be made by
which Members and Associates may be able to obtain the new Journal
at a reduced rate, as is the case with the Annales des Sciences
Psychiques.
Various other matters having been disposed of, the next meeting
of the Council was fixed for Friday, December the 7th, at 4.30 p.m.,
at 19, Buckingham Street, W.C.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 68th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall on Friday, October 26th, at 4 p. m., Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
Professor Lodge gave the substance of the paper which
follows.
EXPERIENCE OF UNUSUAL PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
OCCURRING IN THE PRESENCE OF AN ENTRANCED
PERSON (EUSAPIA PALADINO).
Report to the President and Council of the S.P.R.
By Oliver J. Lodge, D.Sc.
Acting upon an invitation from Professor Charles Richet, I visited
his island in the Mediterranean, (the smallest of the group off the coast
near Hy^res), in order to witness the physical phenomena asserted
to occur in the presence of an uneducated Neapolitan woman, Eusapia
Paladino; and I remained there 6 days, viz., from 21st to 27th July,
1894 in company with my friend Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and another
mv., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 307
guest of Prof. Richet, viz., Dr. J. Ochorowicz,i of Warsaw, known for
his researches and writings on hypnotism and allied conditions. There
was also staying in the house, part of the time, a private secretary of
Prof. Richet's, a M. Bellier, who took down the contemporary notes of
-the seances as dictated to him through a window, but who was not in
the room at the time and took no part in the observations or control.
After his departure his place as note-taker was occupied by Dr.
Ochorowicz.
At this visit we had four sittings, as nearly as possible on alternate
days, each lasting about three or four hours on the average. At the
last two sittings I myself arranged the furniture and objects in the
room before the sitting, and can testify that they were not interfered
with by anyone entering the room.
A month later I again visited Prof. Ptichet, who was now at his
chateau, at Carqueiranne, near Toulon ; I stayed there from August
22nd to September 5th with my wife, and witnessed six more sittings,
this time in conjunction with Prof, and Mrs. Sidgwick. During this
second series Dr. Ochorowicz and another friend of Prof. Richet's, M.
Berretta, were present part of the time, i.e., until they departed to
Paris ; Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck Notzing, of Munich, and Dr. Charles
Segard,2 chief medical officer of the French Mediterranean Fleet, were
each present at two sittings; and at all except two my wife acted as
note-taker, in place of M. Relliei', who was too ill to come. I shall
leave a detailed account of this second series of sittings to Prof, and
Mrs. Sidgwick, and shall myself, except when specially stated, refer
only to the experience gained in the first series.
I had once or twice previously " assisted " at attempts to observe
abnormal physical phenomena, but never with any success. The
things then obtained did not satisfy me of their genuineness. The
occurrences alleged by previous witnesses-'' to take place in presence
of Eusapia were of a more highly developed order than any I had
seen attempted, though they did not pretend to be of so elevated a
character as those recorded by Mr. Stainton Moses and his friends.
I went in a state of scepticism as to the reality of physical movements
produced without apparent contact, but this scepticism has been over-
borne by facts.
I have now definitely to state my conviction that certain
1 Ex-Professor of Psychology and Natural Philosophy in the University of
Lemberg ; author of " La Suggestion Mentale."
3 Medecin principal de la Marine, Medecin en chef de I'Escadre de la Mediterranee.
3 See, for instance, Mr. Podmore's account of experiments in 1892, by a scientific
•committee at Milan, Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXIV., Vol. IX., p. 218.
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894. j
phenomena of this class may, under certain conditions, have a
real and objective existence.
Preliminary Details.
The experiments were conducted at night, from about 10 p.m. to
1 a.m., after the servants had retired into a separate cottage. They
occurred in a small sitting-room on the ground-floor of Professor
Richet's house—the only house on the island except the lighthouse— a
room, 21ft. by 16ft., with plain stucco walls, with only one door (which
on most occasions I kept locked), and with two hinge-shuttered
windows facing south and opening on to a verandah. The shutters
were fastened without being quite closed ; a long narrow aperture
being left for light and ventilation. (For plan of room see Appendix I.)
Outside one of these windows, in the verandah, sat a note taker, who
had a lamp and a watch, and put down all that was dictated to him
through the window ;
responding occasionally, so that his position was
known. Inside the room we observers sat round a table with Eusapia,
in lamp-light at first, but afterwards in semi-darkness, conversing in
an ordinary manner. In a very short time the table at which we
sat became restless and occasionally rose completely from the floor ;
after about half an hour or so of miscellaneous movements the lamp
was lowered and Eusapia was accustomed to go into a light trance,
with an apparent loss of her ordinary normal consciousness ; and then
began the more pronounced phenomena hereafter recorded. On three of
the four occasions now referred to, the sitters were Prof. Richet,
Mr. Myers, Dr. Ochorowicz, and myself, and the note-taker was M.
Bellier ; but on the fourth occasion M. Bellier had left the island and
Dr. Ochorowicz took his place. On the morning after a sitting we
wrote an account of all that had occurred, using these notes as a basis,-
and discussing all doubtful details with critical care. Excerpts from
this contemporary record will be given later (see Appendix) ; in it
certain terms are frequently used to avoid circumlocution, and these
it is as well to define and use as technical terms.
Large Table. —A structure of common deal of the simplest kind,
specially constructed without flange by M. Richet, consisting of a
square top one inch thick and forty inches square, side boards also one
inch thick and five inches broad ; four legs, one at each corner, thirty
inches high, three inches square, bluntly pointed at the bottom so as to
hurt a foot if an elfort were made to raise it thus. Weight, 48 lbs.
Sjnall Table.—-A light oblong deal table at which we usually sat..
It measured 2ft. 9in. by 1ft. lOin. by 2ft. 4in. high, and weighed
about 181bs.
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 309
Bound Table.—An ordinary piece of mahogany furniture, 3ft. 9in.
diameter, covered with a cloth, and sustaining many of the things for
experiment.
Medium. —Name used in speaking of the person without whose
presence none of the phenomena occurred. The name itself may be
objectionable as implying some hypothesis, but it is here used merely
«,s a term in common use which it is difficult to avoid.
Trance. —Condition of the medium when the phenomena are best
developed, a condition not unlike the more obvious trance of Mrs.
Piper, and involving some sort of different memory and different per-
sonality to the ordinary one. When thoroughly in this state she is
found to answer best to the name of "John" instead of to her
•ordinary name ; but she still speaks only Italian, whenever she does
speak, in the trance. There are various grades of this trance, and
unless it is thorough the phenomena are liable to be elementary and
not fully satisfactory.
Contact. —When things are said to be moved without contact it is
intended to assert that there is no contact with them of any ordinary
part of the medium's body, nor of any part of the bodies of sitters, nor
of any instrument or apparatus controlled by them. But that there
may be some kind of abnormal or unusual contact or link of connexion
between moved bodies and the body of the medium seems to me at
present most probable.
The phrase " without contact " never means to exclude these
hypothetical and abnormal kinds of contact.
Hand.—The phrase " grasped, or pinched, or pressed, or touched,
or struck by a hand " is intended to convey the idea of a sensation
experienced freely by the sitters, even before the trance fully comes on
;
especially by those nearest Eusapia and who are controlling her limbs.
Sometimes the thing which produces the sensation is invisible, some-
times it has been seen, and described as more or less like a hand,
with more or less of a foreai-m attached to it. Sometimes the grasps
or pats are audible to other persons. Sometimes they are strong
enough to be painful. It is not easy to describe them scientifically,
but a human hand, or pair of hands, can imitate and reproduce all
these sensations with perfect ease.
Chalet. —Means a cigar-holding musical box, in shape of a little
house, which must be wound up from below, and can be started to
play by twisting its chimney ; its doors then flap open, and it continues
to play till they are shut or till it runs down. It was a toy that
happened to be there.
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.,
Accordio7t. —An ordinary instrument belonging to Prof. Richetj.
•with no trick about it.
Summary of Phenomena Observed.
The following is a summary of some of the things I have ex-
perienced. (For fuller details see Appendix ; for explanation of terms,
in inverted commas, see notes above.)
I have been pushed, and also pinched or compressed, on the head
and on the back, on the arm, and on the knees, while both "the medium's"
hands were in my grasp, and her feet and head well controlled.
Under the same conditions I have had my hand grasped momen-
tarily by something resembling a distinct^feeling bare hand, giving a
clear impression of a thumb and finger and of nails.
I have seen a large " hand " and other vaguer moving objects,
outlined against the dim light of the night sky : the medium being in
all cases carefully and completely held.
I have seen a chair in the window several feet behind the com-
pletely controlled medium, and with no one near it, move several times-
horizontally, and also rise and knock on the floor.
In the total absence of wind I have seen the window-curtain (a.
curtain of heavy stuff with thick fringe) bulge out across the nearly
closed window as if some one were inside it, and continue bulged andl
occasionally moving for some time ; the position of the medium at the
table, five feet away, being plainly obvious all the time, and nobody
being concealed behind the curtain. On another occasion I have felt
the curtain flung over the table and sitters.
I have seen the rude outline of a large face against the window-
background, and a thing like a rough attempt at a hand move up to
the said face ;
"the medium " being under perfect control and sufficiently
visible elsewhere. It appeared to me that the curtain and its fringe
were being used to make this imitation face ; and perhaps the simplest
assumption in every case is that the visible appearances are mere re-
arrangements of already existing materials ; but that there was a pur-
posive arrangement of matter was clear.
I have heard a heavy table at which we were not sitting, and which
no one was touching, move about many times, and then be turned bodily
over, and when light was struck shortly afterwards have found it thus,
inverted on the floor. It was the " large table," weighing 48 lbs., and
we were sitting at the small table. It was overturned without
undue violence, and so as not to break a voltaic battery and other
things on the floor near it. The gradual inversion of the table-
could be seen by Dr. Ochorowicz, who was more favourably situated for
Nov., 1S94.] Report on Eiisaina Paladino. 811
catching the faint light from the window on this occasion, but it was
too dark for me to see.
The medium being under control as usual, I have several times
heard " the chalet " being wound up at distances varying from one to
five feet away from the medium, and have heard and dimly seen
it moving through the air, playing as it came. I have also felt it
deposited on my chest, and removed thence on to the table without
contact. ,-i
I have heard some notes of "the accordion" sounded while it was
lyino- on the round table, no one touching it, the position of both
the medium's hands being known to me, and not being anywhere near
it. More recently (viz., during the second series of sittings) I have
heard a sequence of several notes thus struck on a piano ;
hands, arms
feet head, and mouth of medium being under perfect control, and
the nearest point of her body being two feet from the piano. The
keyboard was visible, but there was not enough light to see the depres-
sion of the keys.
I have heard raps on an untouched table, and once not only raps,
but bangs of excessive violence, as if made with a strongly-wielded
mallet or an abnormally strong hand.
I have seen little lights like glow-worms flit about for a short
time (others seeing them too).
I have heard a sound as of the key being turned in the lock of the
room door, several feet distant, and with clear empty space between us
and it The key then arrived on our table, and, after having been
touched by me, again entered the door, turned in the lock, once more
came into our hands and stayed there.
I have seen writing in blue pencil done with a clean finger nail on
paper, in candle-light.
I have also seen sharply defined blue marks on a table surface
previously blank, no one having touched the table meanwhile, but the
medium's finger having been blued over purposely and moved appro-
priately near but not touching the other side of the table.
J have twice seen a heavy table (48 lbs.) raised completely a foot
from the ground, all standing round it—hands and feet of medium
held both her hands on top of table, not near the edge ;
the fingers
of one hand barelv touching, the fingers of the other lightly pressing,
the top of the table. It was normally impossible for the medium, even
if released, to raise this table in her then position, viz., standing at
one corner, with her hands on the top ; as may be verified by any one
who will have a table made of the same dimensions. (See "large
table" above.) It does not seem to me feasible for her to raise the
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research- [Nov., 1894.
table in that position when controlled, even granting such hysterical
increase of her normal strength as we have some ground for conceding.
I have heard her drinking as from a water bottle, which had
been previously on the sideboard, and have afterwards felt the bottle
deposited upon the table, all standing round table, and all hands held.
The things for which I wish specially to vouch, as being the most
easily and securely observed, and as being amply sufficient in themselves
to establish a scientifically unrecognised truth, are (always under con-
ditions such as to prevent normal action on the part of the medium) ;
—
(1) The movements of a distant chair, visible in the moonlight,
under circumstances such as to satisfy me that there was no direct
mechanical connexion.
(2) The distinct and persistent bulging and visible movement of a
window-curtain in absence of wind or other ostensible cause.
(3) The winding up and locomotion of the untouched chalet.
(4) The sounding of the notes of the untouched accordion and
piano.
(5) The turning of the key on the inside of the sitting-room door,
its removal on to the table, and subsequent replacement in door.
(6) The audible movements and gradual inversion of an untouched
heavy table, situated outside the circle ; and the finding it inverted
afterwards.
(7) The visible raising of a heavy table under conditions in which
it would be ordinarily impossible to I'aise it.
(8) The appearance of blue marks on a surface previously blank,
without ostensible means of writing.
(9) The graspings, pattings, and clutchings of my head, and arms,
and back, while the head, and hands, and feet of the medium were
under complete control and nowhere near the places touched.
It may be convenient hereafter to arrange abnormal phenomena
under three heads or classes :
—
Class A. —Operations which are well within the ordinary power
of the human body without previous preparation, if it were
not controlled or held so as to make it artificially powerless.
Class 5.—Operations which, though they may be within the
power of the human body, cannot be performed without suitable
preparation and manipulation.
Class C. — Operations which are, ordinarily speaking, impossible.
The precise head under which any given occurrence is most con-
veniently placed may be a matter of opinion, and would usually be of
no great importance, but I may instance as belonging
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 313
To Class A the following ;
—
Raising and carrying of light objects such as chairs, keys,
candlesticks, boxes, water bottles, kc ;
"Winding-up of musical boxes, ringing of electric bells, and
playing of accordions ;
Touching, pulling, and grasping of observers ;
Exhibition of hands or head.
Belonging to Class B are such things as :
—
Raising of heavy objects, beyond ordinary strength ;
Production of lights or of scent
;
Exhibition of hands larger than those belonging to medium;
Writing on distant objects, or writing without pencil
;
Movement of objects inside,
or extraction of objects from a locked box.
In Class C we might place such things as :
—
Extraction of objects from permanently closed box, or
of matter from hermetically sealed tube ;
Tying of knots on endless string ;
Linking together of two complete wooden rings ;
Suspension of burning action of red hot bodies ;
Adiabatic alteration of distribution of heat, in a bar or
other bounded region, so as to change uniform into
non-uniform temperature without supply or withdrawal
of heat
;
Local concentration of a previously mixed solution in a
sealed vessel.
Things belonging to Class C have not yet been witnessed by me,
nor, so far as I know, have they been asserted to occur in presence
of E. P. Those in class B have been so asserted, but the occurrence
of the last pair was in my case doubtful ; and for some of the others I
do not care to vouch. For instance, whether the hands seen and felt
were larger than those of the medium is a thing not easy to be sui-e of,
in the absence of opportunity for actual measurement. I cannot say
that I have observed her do anything beyond what is possible to a
free and uncontrolled human being.
The events which happened during the sittings are stated in the
contemporary record, from which extracts are given in Appendix I.,
and it will suffice here to say that the most ordinary language serves
best to describe the apparent phenomena ;
that is to say there seems
nothing refined or subtle about the occurrences as a rule ; the things
are moved much as they would be moved by hands, and the simplest
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.. 1894.
language gives a very fair impression of the outer appearance of the
phenomena as they appeal to one's senses at the time.
Such phrases as the following—A chair in the window was now
seen and heard to rise, to give 3 knocks, to approach several inches
nearer, to move forcibly along the floor, to jerk up and down as if
intelligently responding to a question ;
or, the key in the door was now
heard to turn and fidget in the lock and presently to make its
appearance on the table, whence, after having been felt, it returned
to the door and again entered the lock,—such phrases may seem very
absurd but nevertheless they express what certainly occurs without
any hypothesis, and until more is known about the cause I fail to see
that any more appropriate language can be used.
It would no doubt be possible to record all the movements of the
chair by sufficiently elaborate apparatus, but it would be ingenuity
thrown away. It is the fact of the movements which is interesting
and surprising. A detailed description of them could hardly add
much. The movements are characteristic of the action of a living
being acting in unusual places and ways, but otherwise acting
intelligently and capriciously just as live things do.
Suppose a galvanometer began to exhibit strange and inexplicable
movements : it might at first occur to a physicist to note and record
them accurately, so as to trace their physical origin ;
and in many
cases that would be the proper thing to do. But as soon as it turned
out that a blue-bottle fly was inside the case, he would cease to pay
attention to the precise character of the movements. He would
recognise the capriciousness of a live thing. So it is in the seance-
room : things move precisely as if a live person were at large
;
and naturally the first hypothesis must be that such a person is.
actually present. This hypothesis is the simple one of cheating on the
part of someone:
—
(1) Of the medium.
(2) Of one or more of the sitters.
(3) Of some outside person introduced for the purpose.
To guard against cheating on the part of the medium many
precautions were taken. Her feet were sometimes placed on an
apparatus, devised by M. Ochorowicz, which rings an electric bell
if either foot is raised, and which was tested many times during a
sitting to see that it was working well ; sometimes this apparatus was.
replaced by actual holding of the feet and legs. Her hands are
held, and often her head^ is held too, by one or more sitters.
1 At the second series Professor Sidgwick specially attended to the position of the
mouth on certain critical occasions, and took measuies to observe that no instrument
was held between the teeth ur otherwise.
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eiisapia Paladino. 315
Usually the sitter on her right holds her right hand, and the sitter
on her left holds her left, the whole forearm being frequently
held as well as the hand. All this precautionary holding is entirely
acquiesced in by the medium ; and before anything striking occurs
she usually calls attention to the position of each hand and foot
separately, and frequently places her head in contact with one or
other of the sitters, so that its locahty may be known too. The sitters^
were well aware of the necessity for secure holding of the medium's
genuine hands and feet, and continually called out to each other as to
the security or otherwise of that portion of the body of the medium
which they had in trust.
Fraud on the part of the medium is thus prevented, even if it were
contemplated ; and though we have no reason to suspect attempts at.
fraud on the part of E. P. during our sittings, yet when a person is in.
a somnambulic or trance condition no confidence can be felt as to their
actions, even by themselves. It is essential to take full and complete
and continuous precaution of this kind, and such precautions were
invariably taken.'-
It is well also to remember that the arrival of a small object on the
table or floor in darkness is only valid as an abnormal event if the
holding has been of unbroken continuity throughout. Practically it is
unwise to consider this perfect continuity possible, hence no arrival of
an object is considered trustworthy unless it is seen or heard coming,
or unless it is too big or heavy or distant to admit of having been
brought near and concealed by the medium during some possible
moment of laxity, or unless its original situation has just previously
been observed. The agency, whatever it is, whether the medium or
something else, does not attempt to take observers by surprise, but-
frequently gives notice that something is going to happen, and
occasionally indicates its nature beforehand, so that there may be no-
lapse of attention to spoil the evidence during its occurrence. There
is evidently a keen desire to make the evidence as good as possible. At
the same time there is a habit of requesting miscellaneous conversation
before any specially energetic effort is made, especially before the^
1 I hear it frequently said by men of average, or perhaps excessive, common-sense,
that only statements made by a professional conjurer would convince them of the
absence of fraud. It may be well to secure the evidence of persons specially skilled
in conjuring devices, among others ; and such assistance has already been several,
times given to the Society by well-known conjurers. I am not prepared to admit,,
however, that the evidence of a conjurer is necessarily of a kind such as to render
other evidence superfluous, nor that it is always superior to that of a person whose
life-long study has been the pursuit of truth.—("C/. R. Hodgson on " Indian Magic
and the Testimony of Conjurers," P»'Oceedim/s S.P.R. Vol. IX., p. 354, January, 1894.),
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
display of a visible object ; and this habit is somewhat objectionable
for though it is possible to converse feebly and still attend keenly, yet
silent attention would be preferred by an observer. The medium,
however, seems to feel constrained and repressed by complete silence,
while genial remarks and general conversation seem to assist her. I
did not myself find it necessary to join in the conversation in the
early days of my experience.
The next hypothesis is collusion on the part of the sitters. In some
circles, where the sitters ai'e unknown to each other, and where
confederates are possible, the possibility of this hypothesis is such as
almost to destroy the value of evidence ; but in our case, where each
observer was an intimate friend of at least one of the others, and
where all four were persons engaged in responsible pursuits, giving up
their time at much inconvenience to investigate the phenomenon, this
hypothesis becomes as nearly as possible absurd. Nevertheless, it
must be faced.
First we have the hypothesis of invention—that our meeting was
for the purpose of concocting an elaborate and consistent lie.
Next, outsiders may frame the idea that sooner than not see pheno-
mena occur some one or more of the sitters began to produce them
themselves for the misedification of the others.
Third, it may be held that one of the sitters occasionally released
the medium's hand in order that she might move whatever was within
.her reach, while yet he kept asserting that he had it safe.
It is difficult to discuss these hypotheses, because manifestly no denial
of any of them can be of any weight. All that each sitter can do is to
make sure occasionally that the phenomena can occur even when he by
himself is holding both hands and both feet of the medium. This for
myself I was able to do, and I believe that the others have each at
different times similarly satisfied himself ;
—not because we really dis-
trusted the good faith of each other, but in order to be able to bear each
his own individual testimony as to the powerlessness of the medium to
produce the effects in any normal way ; and because in face of these
extraordinary and incredible manifestations every possible hypothesis
must be pushed to the uttermost before being abandoned.
As to the hypothesis of collusion or confederacy on the part of any
one sitter in the way of actually producing phenomena, that is eliminated
by the absence of each from the group in turn, and by observing that
in his absence the phenomena occur equally well. I need hardly say
that MM. Richet and Ochorowicz had had an immense mass of similar
experience before we arrived on the scene. Therefore they could not
suspect us. On one occasion during our visit when things happened
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. SIT
extremely well, Dr. Ochorowicz was outside the room taking notes,
being then frequently spoken to and answering back from outside the
window ; so that his presence was not essential. At a later series of
sittings at which I was present, neither Mr. Myers nor Dr. Ochoro-
wicz was within 200 miles of the place, and M. Bellier was several
miles away.
There remains the grotesque hypothesis that Prof. Richet has him-
self elaborately arranged a deception : and not even this hypothesis is
of any use, because the phenomena were observed by Ochorowicz, Finzi,
Schiaparelli, Lombroso, and many others, both in Poland and in Italv;
in the absence of M. Richet ;
moreover, on a later occasion Professor
Richet was outside the room taking notes for twenty minutes, while
the phenomena inside were occurring equally well. Excepting E.P.,
I have not observed that either the presence or the absence of any one
individual prevents the occurrence of the phenomena.
If deception on the part of responsible sitters is to be seriously
contemplated, nothing less than a hypothesis of wholesale and con-
tagious lying will serve the purpose. What I am now writing is in
that case but part of the scheme, and therefore it is useless to attempt
to meet this hypothesis.
In what follows I shall disregard it.
But granting that the sitters were honest and ordinarily acute, and
that the medium was so controlled that she could not do any of the
abnormal things with her normal body, what about the introduction
of a confederate ?
Here the topographical situation, on an almost uninhabited island,
should be a satisfaction to outsiders. The people on the island were all
known and accounted for. The population was limited to the light-
house-keeper's family and M. Richet's servants, viz., a boatman and
his wife and daughter. The lighthouse was a third of a mile away.
The servants slept in a separate cottage, and had retired there for the
night. It may be conjectured, by persons who have not seen these
simple Proven9al peasants, that they were accomplices of the astute
Italian, and that the barrier of language, which prevented any
conversation beyond the most ordinary sentences, was a device
assumed for the occasion. It is needless to discuss this absurd
hypothesis, because their neighbourhood is in no way essential to
the phenomena. I am myself satisfied that, on the island, no
one was present near the sitting room except the note-taker
outside, whose locality was a matter of easy knowledge to those
inside. There was only one door to the room, and that was locked
during two sittings by myself ; but even when it was not locked no
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., i894.
one could possibly have entered the room without our knowing. The
walls were of stucco and were quite plain. The windows were shuttered
dn a sufficient manner. A large fixed divan along one end of the room
was opened and examined with a portable electric lamp on a later
occasion by Professor Sidgwick and myself just before a successful
seance, to make sure that it was empty. The sittings always began in
full lamp-light. This testimony may be helpful to persons not present,
but to me the real evidence is that I should certainly have known, by
sight and otherwise, if any stranger had normally entered or moved
about the room ; and I am able to assert positively that no such
unknown person was there.
Under these circumstances, I will content myself by saying that,
being fully alive beforehand to this hypothesis of the introduction
or action of a confederate, I soon came to regard it as, in this instance,
beyond the limits of reasonable discussion. The only accomplice
permitted by the facts is an invisible person or animal always
accompanying Eusapia. Nevertheless, I expect that scientific men
who take the trouble to think over explanations of these incredible
facts, will take refuge in this hypothesis of a confederate as the most
plausible open to them ; but I feel sure that they will discard it as
inadequate and preposterous directly they experience the phenomena
themselves. The facts are not to be explained by the oi'dinary devices
of a conjurer. One is not, in the best cases, presented with an initial
and a final state, which is the conjurer's plan, but one sees the event in
operation ;
objects are transferred in a visible, audible, and fairly
leisurely manner.
Then there is the old Faraday hypothesis of unconscious muscular
action on the part of sitters. This is commonly held to explain move-
ments of a table at which several persons are sitting in good faith. It
probably does explain some of those movements ;
perhaps it explains
them all, though it certainly requires a great deal of stretching to ex-
plain some of the movements that I have seen. But anyhow it does
not explain the raising of a table completely from the ground when
hands are only on the top and all knees away from it. Still less can it
explain the movement of an entirely untouched object.
The occurrence of this last class of movement suffices to throw
out of court the hypothesis of unconscious muscular action as ex-
planatory of the occurrences manifested in presence of E.P.
There remains the hypothesis of collective hallucination, —that
the noises we heard, the touches we felt, the sights we saw were not
real but were hallucinatory, were begotten of an excited imagination.
Before taking part in sittings of this description I had myself
Nov., 1894.] •
Report on Eiisapia Paladino. 319
thought that some such explanation must be a not improbable one ;
but now I perceive its extremely forced character as applied to the
present instance.
So far from being excited we were in the most matter-of-fact and
cold-blooded spirit of enquiry. No one present could have the slightest
doubt as to the objective reality of the noises and touches ;
and it is
not easy to have doubts about the things seen, though these were more
hazy, and some faint doubt about them might creep in if there were
nothing to confirm their objectivity.
But it has been said that no one inside the room can be sure that
he is not hypnotised to see, hear, and feel things that are not really
there : that the evidence of someone outside would be necessary and
sufficient to dispel the illusion, i
The hypothesis of collective hallu-
cination as applied to this case probably sounds most plausible to
persons ignorant of hypnotism ; students of the subject will know
that there is no evidence of the possibility of this wholesale
hypnotic power over every introduced stranger (many of which
strangers have been found insusceptible to ordinary hypnotic methods),
the power being exerted without any of the ordinary physical or
physiological aids. Certainly, if such kind and degree of hypnotism
is possible, the establishment of the fact would be intensely interesting,
hut I find it impossible seriously to contemplate this hypothesis
as applied to the present case. If these things are hallucinations,
most of what reaches us through a less number of senses than usual
must be similarly classed; but to make assurance doubly sure, it
is to be observed that in this case we had an outside witness, in
the person of the note-taker, first M. Bellier and then Dr. Ocho-
rowicz, — once for a short time on a later occasion Prof. Richetj
and to' the reality of all the noises they can bear emphatic testimony.2
The things were heard by them sitting outside in the night air of
the verandah precisely as they were described to them from within.
Sometimes, as in the case of the key fumbling in the lock, the note-taker
heard the noise and enquired who was unlocking the door, before a report
was made to him of the occurrence. At some of the later sittings, more-
over, I myself did not form part of the circle all the time, but got up
1 It is probably advisable to repeat once mere that a widely-circulated statement
concerning a photographic proof of the occurrence of collective hallucination m the
case of an Indian conjurer, took its origin in a mere mischievous lie ;
and that
apparently no rehable evidence exists to show that these Indian feats are more
than conjuring. See Dr.Hodgson, Proceedings S.P.R.,PartXXV., Vol. IX.,pag6354.
2 See end of Appendix 1. At Carqueiranne, indeed, persons in other parts of tlie
house stated that they had heard the noises, of piano and of moving objects in the
later series of sittings, and had been kept awake by them.
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
and walked about and witnessed some of the movements from an out-
side point of view. I am compelled to conclude that this unsupported
hypothesis of collective hallucination must be abandoned, as the
hypothesis of cheating has been abandoned. If it is to be contemplated
at all, perhaps its most plausible form is to suppose that we ware-
deceived into imagining that we had full control over the medium,,
whom we saw and felt in her chair at the table, while she was really
free and moving about producing the effects. This hypothesis will, I
believe, seem quite absurd to each person sepai'ately as soon as he has
experienced the effects, but it may possibly commend itself to out-
siders who have not yet taken part in the observation. It may possibly
commend itself, as the explanation involving least strain, even to some
actual observers ; but so far as I know it has not as yet done so. Any-
how the effects themselves are not illusions : the phenomena do really
occur ; and it remains to describe them, and, if possible, gradually, by
continued investigation, to account for them.
This is what we have now to do : first to bring those leaders of
science who are willing to make the essay to a personal knowledge
of the occurrences themselves : next to investigate their laws, if they
have any : and thereby to trace them to their origin.
The Simulation of Deception.
But in thus inviting fresh persons to experience the occurrences
themselves there is a certain risk to be run. Not always are the
trances equally good and complete ; not always are the manifestations
equally clear. Hence, it may happen that at a first sitting the
things experienced may be of a weak and unsatisfactory order, and the
new comer may think that, if that is all, he need not waste his time any
more ; or if a few unusual things do occur in a place not far enough
removed from the medium to be free from suspicion, he may accuse
some other sitter of collusion, —say of having let go the medium's
hand. This is a distinct danger to be faced. A new sitter feels himself,
say, touched on the shoulder in the dark by a rustling something which
seems to protrude momentarily from the body of the medium, and he
naturally concludes that it is her arm ; or he may, perhaps, dimly see
a thing looking just like an arm engaged in carrying some small
object not far from the medium. He is holding one hand himself,
and knows that it is not the aroi belonging to that; so he jumps to
the conclusion that another sitter, who knows equally clearly that
he has all the time been holding the other hand, has momentarily
let go.
I was familiar with accusations of this kind of cheating that had been
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 321
made between one sitter and another, and I was much impressed with
the extreme liabihty to such an accusation. Some few of the occur-
rences happen precisely as if a hand or sometimes as if a foot of the
medium had been released ; and if those occurrences were all that were
experienced, a lurking doubt of such laxity on the part of another sitter
could hardly be repressed, even though that other sitter were Mr.
Huxley himself. Moreover, if everything that happens happens within
reach of the medium, it is difficult to meet the objection that con-
ceivably one of the holders has been hypnotised to think that he is-
holding a hand when he really is not. Occurrences too close to the
medium, and in the dark, must remain open to some shadow of this
doubt, but with patience and more sittings it is extremely unlikely that
such dubious phenomena will be the only ones displayed. Sometimes
the thing moved will be beyond the reasonable range of any such
hypothesis ; sometimes there will be light enough to see that there is
no normal contact ;
and, as in my case also, sometimes one will
feel the suspicious contact while one has hold oneself of both hands and
both feet of the medium, with the head visible or otherwise under
control; in fact sooner or later the thing will occur in such a way as to
render the hypothesis of self-deception the only one possible, short
of admitting the fact as it is.
I was much interested in observing several times this simulation of
deception on the part of the phenomena : it is a thing to be clearly
admitted, and nothing but patience on the part of a new sitter can
guard him from making unjust accusations if his early experience
happen thus to be untoward, or if he is unprepared with the knowledge
that things sometimes appear, looking like hands and arms, which yet-
do not of necessity normally belong to anyone present. It is his duty
to ascertain whether they so belong or not, but he should not jump to
hasty conclusions. This appearance as of extra limbs is indeed so
prominent a feature that actual physical malformation of the medium
has been suggested to account for them. But I have authority to say
that she has been medically examined, and I know that Mrs. Sidgwick
and Mrs. Lodge took pains to assure themselves that there was nothing
whatever abnormal about her external configuration. They were also
satisfied that she did not bring with her into the seance room any
concealed appliances or dummy limbs.
The accusation of collusion is manifestly a serious one, and to guard
against it I think that in no investigation of this kind should
anyone be admitted who is not willing to bind himself to take
part in a certain number of sittings, —say four, at least, —before making
any sort of accusation or public testimony. There is danger, even
322 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894-
then, that his disgust at a failui'e on the first attempt may lead him
to regard all the other sittings as a mere nuisance to be endured ; in
which case his unscientific deportment may ensure a sequence of
similar failures.
It is obviously absurd for a person after one sitting to consider
his experience of more value than the accumulated experiences of
many other observers over a long peiiod ;
but, as a matter of
experience, absurdity is no deterrent. At least one distinguished
Professor, for instance, after one bad sitting with Mrs. Piper when
she was not properly entranced, jumped to the conclusion that
he understood the whole fraud and refused to have anything
more to do with her; and one frequently sees this bad experience of
his quoted as a strong argument against the genuineness of the Piper
phenomena. A written agreement to attend at least 4 sittings, at two
of which he must be content to act, if necessary, merely as a
witness, without active interference, might well be required of
anybody introduced to these unusual experiences. After that, he
must of course be free to make any report which he may think proper.
A novice should realise first the kind of things attested by others,
and then gradually introduce such reasonable modifications as may
serve to convince him of the genuineness of what he has experienced.
I believe also that it would be well to bind a stranger, or one who
specially prided himself on his superiority to the reception of new
truth, on his honour to play no pranks, such as himself to touch and
move things to the possible confusion of other observers, nor to exert
such surprise or violence upon the medium as might be bodily dangerous
to her.
While speaking of the simulation of deception exhibited by some
of the phenomena, —a subject of great interest and importance and on
which we now ought to be prepared to act more wisely in the light of
many years' past experience of some of our members, —I wish specially
to record the fact that Eusapia herself in her ordinary state is not
averse to exhibiting things which she seems to consider just as good
as those which are accomplished while she is unconscious. I have no
doubt that she does this out of good nature and a wish to please
;
she is not a person of high education, and apparently she does not
clearly discriminate between what is really of interest and what is
not.
One afternoon she began, with me alone, to jig a table about and
cause liquid in a jar to shake; others came in and took part in the
procedure, and presently the light table was lifted for an instant from
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 323
i}he floor ; but the whole thing was wearisome and quite unhke the
genuine phenomenon. The movements were such as anyone could
produce, and a momentary raising of the table could be eff'ected in her
then position without serious difficulty. The experiments werepersisted in
for half-an-hour out of motives of politeness to her, but I am not sorry
for the experience. It enables me to warn intending observers that if,
on the strength of any such exhibition, they proceed to accuse Eusapia
of fraud they may be stultifying themselves as well as harming the
cause of truth. Such performances are doubtless extremely unwise on
her part, but it would be unduly severe to call them fraudulent
;
there need be no fraud in the matter ; she is probably experi-
menting in her way on whether she too cannot do the things
she has heard talked about for years ; and she succeeds only in
giving a very poor imitation of some of them, such as could hardly
deceive anyone.
At the beginning of a regular seance, too, before she has properly gone
into the trance and assumed the personality of "John," the move-
ments are of an intermediate character (in my experience)—not so futile
as those produced in her ordinary state, yet nothing like so conclusive
as those obtained in a complete trance. In a bad sitting it is probable
that this intermediate state is the only one attained, as was sometimes
the case with Mrs. Piper ; the medium is then more than half conscious
of what is happening, and beginners must be prepared for the chance
of one or two such unsatisfactory sittings, by which no one will expect
them to be convinced.
At the time when the above was written I happened to have had
only good sittings with Eusapia, and my only experience of what was
likely to happen in the others was based upon what happened when
she was not entranced at all. Judging from that experience, I thought
it not unlikely that she may sometimes half-somnambulically attempt
to achieve effects which she thinks desired in what may readily appear
a fraudulent manner. Later experience, with sittings of a less
uniformly successful character, though it has not, so far, verified that
conjecture, leads me to supplement it with the further opinions (1) that
it must be possible, by sufficient precaution, to check such attempts,
even if made ; and (2) that, if undue latitude were given, it would be
reasonable to expect some such attempt sooner or later. For it must
be observed that in the trance state the medium is in a curious condi-
tion, a condition in which it is really unfair to leave her uncontrolled
as if she were in the full possession of her normal faculties ;
moreover,
it may very likely be true that the difference between a normal and an
.abnormal operation is a distinction based rather upon our present
324 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 189-4.
ignorance than upon anything ultimate in the nature of things, so that
if in the trance state either of two methods of achieving a result appear
to her equally feasible, it may need an effort to remember that one
of those methods will strike spectators with astonishment, while the
other will be stigmatised by them as imposture. It is, however,
unlikely that both methods are really equally easy—the abnormal
method clearly requires an effort—and there must be a temptation
to take the easier path in cases of difficulty, if that is unguardedly
left open.
It must be understood that in her ordinary state Eusapia under-
stands the phenomena as little as anybody, and has less actual experi-
ence of them than other people have. She can only know about them
what she may be told afterwards, and her opinion on them is of no
more value than her imitations.
All danger of unfair accusation will be avoided if sitters will only
have the common sense to treat her, not as a scientific person engaged
in a demonstration, but as a delicate piece of apparatus wherewith
they themselves are making an investigation. She is an instrument
whose ways and idiosyncracies must be learnt, and to a certain extent
humoured, just as one studies and humours the ways of some much less
delicate piece of physical apparatus turned out by a skilled instrument-
maker.
A bad joint in a galvanometer circuit may cause irregular and capri-
cious and deceptive effects, yet no one would accuse the instrument of
cheating. So also with Eusapia : it is obviously right to study the
phenomena she exhibits in their entirety, so far as can be done with
such a comphcated mechanism, but charges of fraud should not be lightly
and irresponsibly made—however justified such charges may have been
in other cases. It is to be observed that Eusapia has nothing whatever
to do with arranging the sittings : she comes in when all is ready and
sits down where requested. By means of raps and other movements,
occasionally also by interjections, she does subsequently exert some
control over the proceedings; but the control of the agency was never
of such a character (in my experience so far) as to assist or encourage
unfair practices, though it certainly hampered free experimentation.
A course of sittings with stupid and ignorant clients is, how-
ever, not unlikely to lead in the long run to deception and fraud.
It is a serious danger which all mediums must run, unless they
can be kept in the hands of wise and i-esponsible persons. It is-
human to succumb to temptation, and the temptation will sooner or
later arise :—say, when the trance will not come on and nothing genuine-
will happen. But the behaviour of such a decadent medium, though.
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eitsapia Paladino. 325
much to be regretted, has no necessary connexion with the phenomena
exhibited by him before he cheated, if only we can be sure that he had
a time of honesty. It is indeed always possible for subsequent
exposui-e to be instructive, viz., when it throws light on modes of
operation and possibilities of mal-observation ; but it will be scarcely
reasonable, though it may be natural, hereafter summarily to discard
existing evidence at the mere rumour of detected trickery, without
details showing similarity between the present and the future. If,
for instance, the experiments with Eusapia are now made really and
finally secure, her subsequent conduct, though in many ways a
matter of interest, and to some extent of responsibility, will have
no directly scientific bearing. My insistence on this point may be
misunderstood, but it is impossible to make a report at all if the act is
held to make one responsible for the future career of some practically
unknown person. I have put no confidence in Eusapia's character at
all, but for scientific purposes have treated her as a being liable to
deceive both voluntarily and involuntarily. What I have deprecated
a few paragraphs above, is not justifiable and necessary suspicion but
hasty and ill-founded accusation.
General Propositions Concerning the Phenomena.
I have explained that the investigation of the laws of the effects
is complicated and rendered apparently unprecise by reason of
their occurring in the presence of a live person, and that they
have all the capricious characteristics of vitality and independent
"volition.
I have likened the movements to those caused by a fly in a
galvanometer or a mouse in a balance case : it would be useless in
such case to map out all the motions, yet there would be no doubt of
their objectivity, and they might follow some sort of half recognisable
laws. Thus a beam of light might conceivably keep the animal still,
while darkness liberated its activity. Silent attention might similarly
paralyse it, while miscellaneous talking might encourage it to pro-
ceed. A violent intrusion or other surprise might check any further
,
manifestation for a long time, and so on.
The things which happen in the seance-room happen precisely as if
an invisible or only partially visible intelligent live animal of some
strength were hovering about and moving objects ;
moving them with
greatest ease in the neighbourhood of the medium, but occasionally at
considerable distances, and sometimes exerting more force than the
medium's ordinary muscles could be supposed capable of.
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894,
With reference to the abnormal exercise of force on the part of
the medium, an experience gained during my second visit to the South
of France is of interest. After the seance the medium is usually for
some time only half awakened, and a slight stimulus is occasionally
sufficient to send her back into trance again ; and even though this
does not happen, yet the abnormal power seems not quite departed, so
that she may sometimes move an object without contact, or may
produce writing or marks without ordinary means. The advantage
of these post-trance effects is that they occur in full lamplight ; the dis-
advantage of them is that they happen rather unexpectedly. On the
occasion now to be mentioned, the usual operation of squeezing a
hand dynamometer was being gone through by everybody after a--
s^ance, and I was writing down the results. The scale was arbitrary^
but it may be said that women ranged from 40 to 70, men from 70 tO'
160 or thereabouts. No one was able to reach 165.^ Eusapia's-
normal I'ecord was about 50, and after the stance she was usually too
fatigued for so much as this. But on this one occasion, after she had
squeezed the spring normally with her right hand, and had taken it in.
her left, she called out that "John" was squeezing her hand on the
instrument. She was standing by the lamp at which I was writing, and
I saw the index going up gradually to an abnormal figure. It went up to
138. Professor Ptichet then took the instrument from her, reset it, and
gave it back with the index against her palm, so that no accidental
contact of finger tips could afiect it. She squeezed again in the same
forcible manner, and this time the registering index was at 210. Once
1 1 can sometimes get up to 170 now, but the heat was excessive then. The
following is a scale of interpretation :—
Readings of
Outside Scale
(here recorded).
Corresponding Readings
of Inside Scale
(sometimes read).
Absolute Equivalent Values-
in pounds weight
(as specially tested).
50 20 42 lbs.
80 30 63 „
120 41 91 „
150 49 115 „
180 59 142 „
210 66 168 „
240 75 186 „
280 85 232 „
Nov., 1894.] Report on Emapia Palaclino. 327
more she squeezed, and the register stopped at 155.1 ^.11 these figures
are much beyond her normal strength, and she complained naturally of
slight pain in her fingers after the grip. Professor Richet says that
such hysteric exhibitions of abnormal strength are not unknown in
medical experience. Her left hand is normally rather stronger than
her right, and the best effects are supposed to be produced at her left
side during the trance. This may be considered a suspicious
circumstance : it is well to have all such circumstances emphasised.
If the actual occurrences had not been sufiicient to overpower all my
own suspicions, I should, of course, express strongly the last vestige
of doubt which I might feel. It is eminently a case where it is neces-
sary to exaggerate and bring into prominence the least trace of residual
doubt.
The phenomena usually develop themselves in a certain order, in-
dicating a series of increasing difiiculty : and the following is the
order of the early stages, so far as I have observed :
—
1st, and easiest, a slow or steady force or push—(a) on inert
matter, such as the table or other objects, (producing tilts and
movements) ;
(b) on the clothes or skin of some person present.
2nd, a sudden and audible striking force
—
(a) on ordinary objects^
(producing raps) ;
(b) on the bodies of people present.
3rd, a visible appearance or shade, more or less closely imitating
part of a human body.
4tb, a similar appearance not only visible but also tangible ; able
to produce the sensation of grasping contact in whatever part of the
body it is seen to touch, and also capable of moving objects visibly and
permanently.
Some of the simpler things occur in the light, but the most developed
1 The follovving is the complete dynamometer record for this particular evening ;
right hand first, then left hand, in each case ;
readings being taken on the outside
scale of the instrument.
Carqueiranne, September 2nd, 1894.
Before sitting. After sitting.
Prof. Sidgwick
|
Prof. Richet
|
O. J. Lodge
I
Mrs. Sidgwick ( 38 37
74 85
56 80
140 132
118 108
152 142
135 125
Mrs. Lodge 65 67
I'note taker) {42 45
Eusapia
|^
47 50
38 i 138
138]
210 V In full light.
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894
ones seem to require very little light, and sometimes almost complete
darkness. This is obviously to be regretted, and efforts are frequently
made to get them done in light, but more and more darkness is usually
asked for by the agency and can hardly be refused except at the
expense of not getting any results : and it seems more useful to get
results for such observation as is possible under the circumstances than
not to get them at all. It is very desirable to accustom the medium
to endure more light, and gradually perhaps this may be done ;
—
in the last sitting of all there vi^as quite a reasonable amount of
light, and many things happened;—but at first it is not Avise dogmatically
to insist on any such condition as a sine qua non. It is probably a
pity that in earlier stages of her career so much darkness was per-
mitted, so that now it is felt almost as a necessity.
In emphasising the fact of darkness I am probably producing an
exaggerated impi'ession on the mind of a reader. A certain fairness of
mind is needed on the part of a reader, as well as a most scrupulous
fairness on the part of the writer, if a true impression is to be conveyed.
A reader will not receive a true impression if he regards me as a
special pleader. My sole object is to give as unbiassed and exact an
account of these strange experiences as possible, and to bring into
prominence all weak points. If, notwithstanding all these weak points,
I am able to profess myself convinced, that by itself is a fact which
•different readers will appreciate differently. It is only fair to say in
the present connexion that the darkness was seldom sufficient to
permit a person to move about the room unperceived, and when it was
so dark as this, the conditions were not considered at their best.
When the conditions were good, the medium could be seen as well as
felt, and the other persons present could be seen too. No confederate
was possible.
There are a certain number of questions or topics which naturally
arise with regard to the conditions of the phenomena ; these I will now
take seriatim.
Effect of Light.
Light is an etherial undulation, and it is improbable that the
extremely feeble amount of energy needed to excite the retina should
have any physically deleterious effect. Moreover dark radiation, which
may be equally or much more energetic, is not known to exert any
hostile action. Every room is full of ether waves from every object in
it, and an iron ball or stove below red heat would probably not be ob-
jected to by the agency or medium. Perhaps ultra-violet rays would
equally well escape recognition, and in that case, if the invisible "illumi-
nation " were sufficient, a series of photographs might be taken—a highly
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 329
desirable thing to do, and a matter to be separately considered in
Appendix II, ;
—but it .is by no means certain that a knowledge of the
existence of a photographic eye might not exert a depressing influence
on the trance-intelligence, which appears keener and more knowing
than the ordinary intelligence of E. P. Bandaging her eyes does not,
I am told, prevent her sensibility to light. Professor Richet will report
on this subject.
On the whole it seems to us most likely that the action of visible
light is not a physical so much as a psychological one ;
that it is not
the quivering ether but the seeing power of the sitters which is the
hostile fact. It may be really and unavoidably hostile, or it may be
only hostile by suggestion ; and in the latter case, if it could be sug-
gested to E. P. that light would be beneficial rather than adverse, the
conditions of investigation might be improved.
At the second series of sittings I had an electric lamp which could
be flashed up ; but it is a serious responsibihty to attempt a surprise.
Any rapid change of illumination, such as I tried on a small scale once
or twice, seems to be felt by the entranced medium in a painful
manner, unless she is prepared beforehand. It is unnecessary to
emphasise the obviously suspicious character of this fact. After notice
she can stand even the magnesium flash light, as used for photo-
graphic purposes (almost as if she were hypnotised not to perceive
it) ; but without notice it would be rash to attempt a sudden
illumination except under responsible medical advice ; and even then
it would be difficult to time the flash appropriately, unless the occur-
rences were of a more durable character than those experienced by me.
Gradual training to endure a steady light seems the more hopeful
method of investigation.
In saying that the conditions could be improved I am not im-
plying doubt of the reality of the movements—I have seen them
occur in sufficient light to feel sure of that, besides hearing them and
feeling them ad nauseam,—but I want to see more of those things
that give one the (probably absurd) impression of being processes
or apparent protuberances from the medium's body. I want to
ascertain whether they always or only occasionally exist, from what
part of the medium's body they spring, if they always do spring
thence, and whether they are continuous all the way when their
further terminations are visible. I had a hoop ready to pass over her
body when some continuous distant action was going on, to see if
anything would be intercepted, but I found no convenient opportunity
for performing the experiment. Continuous distant actions lasting
some time were rare ; most of the events were quickly over. Moreover
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
the holding of hands round in a chain, which the medium unfortunately
has grown accustomed to request, and indeed insist upon, is a serious
bar to free and easy experimenting. If observation were easy the
whole thing would probably have been accepted and understood long
ao-o. The visible manifestations —the imitation of hands, etc.
—
are sufficiently objective to be seen by several persons at once
or to be felt by one person and seen by another ;
but they
seem to disappear suddenly, leaving no trace, and their relation
to or inter-connexion with ordinary matter does not seem always con-
sistent. (For instance, sometimes they are intercepted by drapery^
at other times they appear to penetrate it.) If the things are faintly
luminous, as has been sometimes asserted, then darkness may be the
best condition for seeing them, but when some portable object is
sailing across the room one would naturally like to have a look at
what is holding it, in a good clear light if possible. It is not of course
certain that anything would be visible.
It is possible that more experienced observers may have a definite
opinion based upon past experience on these and many other matters. I
must leave them to speak for themselves. In a matter of this sort at its
present stage it seems almost necessary for each new observer to start
for himself de novo without loading himself with a knowledge of
what has already been done, and without attempting to learn from,
past testimony, lest he become prejudiced.^ The necessity for this con-
stantly new foundation is a weakness and defect which before long I
hope will be remedied. It will be remedied as soon as the subject can
take its place as a branch of orthodox science, and until it so takes its
place it can hardly make much progress.
Nature of Objects Moved.
Foreign objects unknown to and previously untouched by the
medium do not seem so likely to be operated upon as more familiar
objects. I myself at first tried to get things out of my pocket moved,,
but unsuccessfully. Later I chose things belonging to or connected
with Eusapia, taking them, however, secretly, and arranging them as I
pleased beforehand. These were successfully moved in nearly every
case, provided they were inside the room. It may be well for intending
experimenters to remember that when they seal things up or otherwise
place things for experiment it is preferable to choose something previously
handled by the medium and not some foreign object without interest for
her or association with her. The probability that the latter objects.
1 This must be my apo'o^ry to those learned in the history of this subject for my
obvious ignoiance of its literature.
Nov., 1894.1 Report on Easapia Polaclino. 33L
are best may sound suspicious, as so many other things may sound, but,
so far as I see, the suspicious character of the fact is only apparent
;
such objects will serve the purpose of experiment as well as any other
if properly arranged, and one cannot be held responsible for the human
character of the manifestations ; nor can it be considered altogether
unreasonable.
Source of the Energy.
Physical movements imply a source of energy, and it may be
assumed that the energy necessary is withdrawn from those present
—
principally I suppose, perhaps entirely, from the medium ;
who was some-
times completely exhausted, —although she was usually quite restored
by a night's rest. I shall leave others to report on the dynamometer
readings which, as already incidentally mentioned, were taken before
and after each seance, in order to ascertain, if possible, the source of the
energy; nothing has yet been clearly proved by them so far as I know,
but if once the movements are admitted it will be conceded that animal
vitality is the most natural, indeed the only Hkely, source of the energy
employed.
Seat of the Reaction.
An object cannot be moved by ordinary physical laws unless som&
other body experience an equal opposite reaction. So also a body
cannot be raised from the earth unless some other bodies experience
an equal increment of weight.
In the case of these movements the simple physical laws may con-
ceivably turn out inapplicable, but it is unlikely that they will, and I
regard it as exceedingly important to localise the reaction in every
case where possible.
It appears most feasible to do this when some heavy object is being
lifted from the ground. Assuming this done directly by the medium,
she would gain in weight, and, if placed upon a scale pan or regis-
tering balance, her weight should increase until the thing begins to
drop. The medium's weight is 60 kilos., and the heaviest thing I have
seen her raise is 22 kilos. I have not yet succeeded in getting this-
done while she was on a balance, but I hope to persevere in this
attempt.
I may say that the aspect of affairs when a heavy body is being
raised, with the medium's fingers gently touching the top of it, is not
as if it were being pulled up from above, but as if it were being
pushed up from below. This is the appearance of the thing—that is
all I can say at present. She may be standing by it with not only hands
held but with feet also held, so that extensive undetected knee action is-
impossible (though, indeed, I have not found that anyone, however
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
strong, can thoroughly raise the heavy table, standing, with his
knees); nevertheless, the thing rises as if an extra protuberance jutted
out from her body, and with great effort (in the case of a heavy table)
effected the elevation. Or, it may be said, as if someone got under the
table and heaved it up with his back. Now the experiment of the ab-
normal dynamometer grasp related above indicates that the medium
has at times altogether exceptional strength ; and it would be rash to
deny that during some such access the table could be lifted. But then
such force as this can hardly be considered a normal phenomenon, and,
even if it were so regarded, there has been in my experience often no
sufficient i^int d'ajjpui for the force to be normally applied. Never-
theless the two kinds of phenomenon may shade into one another, and
perhaps one of them may help to throw light on the other.
All these movements are accompanied by effort on the part of the
medium, who often when moving a distant object makes a small sym-
pathetic movement in its direction. Similarly when the key-board
•of an accordion or piano is being apparently fingered at a distance the
fingers of the medium are sometimes felt by those holding her hands to
be going through apparently appropriate motions in their grasp.
Sideway movements of heavy furniture were also accompanied by
convulsive movements of the medium, as if she were conscious of the
effort and was really producing it by some sort of abnormal process or
protuberance. The slight movements or strains here spoken of produce
no effect except pressure against the persons who are holding her, but
they shew that she is conscious of the effort being made and is
sympathetically following it ;
—much as men crane over a billiard-table
.as though to help on a ball which has insufficient momentum.
In this case also I want to examine the seat of the reaction, if
possible, by placing the medium on a wheeled or suspended platform—
-
if this can be done without endangering her sense of security and
thereby spoiling the effects—so as to see whether her platform moves
in a direction opposite to that of the moved table or desk.
I do not regard this attempt at detection of the seat of the reaction
as affecting the evidence for the reality of the movements, but as con-
veying information as to the laws of the unknown force. I anticipate,
but quite gratuitously, that the reaction will be found on the person
of the medium, so that when she is supporting a table she will be found
,heavier by the weight of the table, but it by no means necessarily
follows that it is so ; it is conceivable that the reaction may be
diffused through the room. A reaction may be taken up and diffused
by air molecules, as, for instance, in the case of a lamb being carried off
Nov., 1894.] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 333'
by an eagle ; it would not in that case be easy to demonstrate the
still existing weight of the lamb.
It is a matter for experiment to ascertain where the reaction is ;
and, if no adequate reaction can be found, the phenomenon may have to
be likened more nearly to the action of a flying animal than to that of
an animal resting on the ground.
Sympathetic Movements of the Medium.
The fact, just recorded, that the medium's body undergoes sym-
pathetic or corresponding movements or twitches is very instructive and
interesting. Sometimes when she is going to push a distant object she-
will make a little sudden push with her hand in its direction, and
immediately afterwards the object moves. Once this was done for mj
edification with constantly the same object, viz. a bureau in a.
corner of the room, but with the group of observers and medium
(under control as usual of course) first close to it and then gradually
further and further away from it, and I was instructed by the agency
to observe that the time-interval between the push and the response-
increased as the distance increased, so that when 6 or 7 feet away the
time interval was something like 2 seconds. This detail by itself is of
no value save as a hint for investigation, but the fact of the sympathetic-
movements on the part of the medium seems to me of considerable
interest. When the accordion is being played, the fingers of the medium
are moving in a thoroughly appropriate manner, and the process
reminds one of the twitching of a dog's legs when he is supposed
to be dreaming that he is chasing a hare. It is as if Eusapia
were dreaming that she was fingering an instrument, and dream-
ing it so vividly that the instrument was actually played. It
is as if a dog dreamt of the chase with such energy that a distant
hare was really captured and killed, as by a phantom dog; and,,
fanciful as for the moment it may seem, and valueless as I must
suppose such speculations are, I am, I confess, at present more than
half disposed to look in some such direction for a clue to these
effects. In an idealistic interpretation of nature it has by many
philosophers been considered that thought is the reality, and that
material substratum is but a consequence of thought. So ni a
minor degree it appears here : it is as if, let us say, the dream of
the entranced person were vivid enough to physically affect sur-
rounding objects, and actually to produce objective results to cause
not only real and permanent movements of ordinary objects, but also-
temporary fresh aggregations of material particles into extraordinary
objects ; these aggregations being objective enough to be felt, heard,
seen, and probably even photographed, while they last.
:S34 Journal of Society for Psychical Kesearch. [Nov., 1894.
Summary and Conclusion.
However the facts are to be explained, the possibility of the facts I
am constrained to admit ; there is no further room in my mind for doubt.
Any person without invincible prejudice who had had the same experi-
ence would come to the same broad conclusion, viz., that things hitherto
held impossible do actually occur. If one such fact is clearly estab-
lished, the conceivability of others may be more readily granted, and I
concentrated my attention mainly on what seemed to me the most
simple and definite thing, viz., the movement of an " untouched
"
object in suiiicient light for no doubt of its motion to exist. This
I have now witnessed several times ; the fact of movement being
vouched for by both sight and hearing, sometimes also by touch, and
the objectivity of the movement being demonstrated by the sounds
heai'd by an outside observer, and by permanent alteration in position
of object.
When I say an " untouched " object, I mean that it is not
-touched in a normal way by any person present, nor by instru-
ments or other indirect contrivances wielded by any one : but I am
not prepared to believe that the body is, technically speaking, acted
upon at a distance. It is untouched by any part of any person's
normal body, but it is probable that before motion occurs the object
must be touched by something ; —something which occasionally seems
like an abnormal temporary prolongation from "the medium's " body.
The phenomena do not seem to me to modify the fundamental laws of
physics, but perhaps they may lead to an extension of the recognised
laws of biology. ^ In other words, it is only in the presence of a living
being that these actions occur, and the power which enables such
movements appears to be a modified or unusual display of vital power,
directing energy in an unusual way along unrecognised channels, but
otherwise effecting much the same kinds of movement as can be
caused by the action of ordinary limbs. Thus, instead of action at a
distance in the physical sense, what I have observed may be said to
be more like vitality at a distance—the action of a living organism
exerted in unusual directions and over a range greater than the
ordinary.
The reason why I speak of temporary prolongations from the
1 It may be asked why I abstain from contemplating the spiritualistic hypothesis.
The reason is that I have not yet seen it scientifically framed, and I do not feel that in
any of the vague forms known to me it is specially applicable to these particular
facts. In order to be able to move matter I must presume that some sort of body is
necessary, as well as a will ; and the people present are accommodated with both.
One of the rules of philosophizing is, to exhaust the possibilities of the known before
seeking the aid of the unknown. But if ultimately I perceive that the agency of
something at present undefined is a real assistance in accounting for the phenomena,
I shall hope to face the question frankly.
Nov.. 1894,] Report on Eusapia Paladino. 3
medium's body is because I myself have been frequently touched by
something which might most readily be described as such a prolonga-
tion or formation, and have sometimes seen such a thing while it was
touching another person. But the effect on an observer is usually
more as if the connecting link, if any, were invisible and intangible,
or as if a portion of vital or directing energy had been detached, and
were producing distant movements without any apparent connexion
Avith the medium.
To illustrate by things of common knowledge something of what
I mean by these hypothetical prolongations and projections of vital
activity :
—That which I mean by prolongation occurs when an
.animal has a swelling or protuberance which having effected some
contact or movement of an otherwise untouched object may then
disappear, (of this the best known non-pathological instances are the
processes of the amoeba); whereas the further stage of projection of
vital activity occurs when an animal or plant has an off-shoot or bud
which detaches itself more or less completely and maintains a more or
less independent existence, (of this perhaps the only known instances
are connected with the operations of reproduction). But, although the
phenomena experienced often suggest that something analogous to one
or other of the above processes is in operation, I by no means wish to
imply that the real cause is to be looked for in this direction,—such
a hypothesis would doubtless to a biologist seem absurd ;
and two pages
above I venture to suggest tentatively another vague and more meta-
physical direction, in which, I confess, I at present feel more tempted
to try and grope ;
nevertheless it is almost necessary to use terms
appropriate to some biological hypothesis in order to describe the
phenomena. The facts are hard even to describe, and the language
used is to be understood as part of the description, and not as aiming
at an explanation ;
yet perhaps it may be considered that some
such unexpected power of protoplasmic activity is a less violent
hypothesis than genuine physical actio in distans without medium of
communication.
That is my report, introductory to such portion of the detailed notes
of the sittings as it may be considered worth while to print. It is
drawn up under a heavy sense of responsibility and without enthu-
siasm. I am under no delusion as to ease and rapidity in the matter
of convincing a world. The world is very busy, and I suppose that this
report will not be much read, or that it will be read only by those who
are already more than half convinced. I was not convinced by what
I had read myself, though indeed some of Mr. Crookes' statements^ were
i Quarterly Journal of Science, July and October, 1871, Vol. VIII., pp. 345 and 484-492.
336 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
such as to compel respect ; and why should what I now say convince
others ? I do not expect to convince, but I do wish to make a prirnd
facie case for investigation : I do wish to see these truths taken under
the wing of orthodox science. Even this amount of recognition my
report standing alone could not appreciably influence, but it will not>
stand alone. The phenomena exhibited by Eusapia Paladino have
attracted attention from savants of nearly all the countries of the
Continent, and I hope that my report will be ultimately embedded in
a mass of their independent testimony.
Appended to the bare narrative of facts I have thought it useful,
and therefore legitimate, to represent their appearance more vividly
by the aid of language which may justly be stigmatised as involving
some amount of hypothesis. But I need hardly say that I attach no
importance whatever to any of these vague attempts at hypotheses,
though they are all that I am able to frame at present. They represent
partially our discussions held on the ile Roubaud, in the midst of the
phenomena, and they include my friends' notions as well as my own.
They may possibly be of some use if taken as part of the description,
of facts, since they represent the effect of the phenomena on the minds
of unprejudiced observers ; and they have at least aided my own mind
to overcome some of its nausea at the reception of these unpalatable
facts. Time achieves many things, and it may achieve the assimilation
and digestion even of these tough morsels.
Whatever may be the present fate of this report, I assume that if
incorporated in our Proceedings it may meet the eye of a better in-
structed posterity, to whom such of the statements in it as are true
will have become a commonplace, and such of the statements as are
false will appear properly ludicrous. To such posterity I appeal, and
I would that all hostile criticism now made could be similarly bound
up in our Proceedings, and go down along with these lame but con-
scientious records, so that the atmosphere of the time in which they
are made might be rightly estimated, and the reputation both of critic
and of criticised might meet with the same impartial judgment, with
the same impartial award.
[For details of Seances, see Apj^endix I., pp. 346-357.]
Mr. F. "W. H. Myers then spoke to the following effect :
—
" I had the pleasure of being Professor Richet's guest on the ile
Roubaud, July -Jlst—27th, and of witnessing the phenomena which
Professor Lodge has described. I entirely confirm all that he has
said, which is strictly based upon the notes carefully taken at the
time. These notes, as already described, were jotted down from
Nov., 1894.] Discussion of Professor Lodge's Paper. 337
minute to minute by the note-taker outside the room, in accordance
with our dictation from inside. The words to be written down were
called out to him generally by Professor Richet, but sometimes by one
of the rest of us. On the morning after each sitting Professor Lodge
and I translated together into English the notes of the preceding
evening, while our own memories were fresh ;
adding such explanations,
measurements, &c., as seemed needful to make the notes coherent, and
to avoid misunderstandings. If we had any doubt on any point, we
consulted Professors Richet and Ochorowicz, and put nothing down
unless all memories were agreed upon it. I mention this because
where phenomena are so apparently casual and unconnected it seems
desirable that not only should the record be simultaneous, but the
redaction of the record, —which is sure to need explanatory words
here and there, —should also be as closely subsequent as possible.
" Being thus fully satisfied with Professor Lodge's presentment of
the phenomena witnessed, I need here only add a few of the incidents
which he has omitted for brevity's sake ;
such, especially, as I chanced
from some accident of position or otherwise to have good opportunity
of observing.
" Violence of the touches. —It so happened that I received the most
violent of the pressures experienced at these sittings, and also the
only pressure, I think, felt at three separate points at once. In the
notes for July 26th occur the words :
'
M. was seized from behind as
by a bear and compressed. It turned him about and ubimately drew
him violently away from L., who saw him moving, and felt the trans-
mitted pull. M. then felt as if a big man were kneeling behind him
seizing him round back and thighs, and shaking him vigorously.
Embrace strong and lasting.' Here, when I say ' seized round back
and thighs,' I mean that the feeling was as if a powerful head were
butting me in the small of the back, while I was shaken sideways,
first to one side then to the other, by something which pressed strongly
on both hips, though without, in this case, any definite sensation oifingers.
When I say '
as by a bear '
I mean that the grip was stifF and massive
rather than flexible, as opposed to cases where apparent palm and
finger-tips were felt. There were, at any rate, strong simultaneous
pressures on three different regions of my body, and with a force
which impressed me at the time as being greater than my own.
I was holding the hands of Professor Lodge and of Eusapia ;
Professor
Richet, the only other person in the room, was holding the other hands
of Professor Lodge and of Eusapia, and we were all standing round
the table. Professor Ochorowicz was outside the window, taking
notes, and no one else could possibly have been present.
338 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1894.
" Another phenomenon, on July 23rd is thus described in the
notes
:
" '
Then a tall candlestick with glass globe enclosing candle was
carried from spare table on to sitting table ; M. distinctly seeing it
descending in a wavy line down the gap in the shutters. This being a
slender object in line of sight was easily obsei-ved, and M. saw no hand
touching it. It remained on table some time, L. feeling it there.'
"I wish to make it clear that the whole of this candlestick with the
cylindrical glass shade around it was easily comprised in the belt of clear
sky between the shutters, and remained fully in my sight, at about
eighteen inches from my face, for several seconds, moving gently the
while. The rattle of the ill-fitting shade, as it vibrated in the air,
was heard by Professor Lodge and myself. In this case, and in
several others described in the notes, I clearly witnessed objects
poised and moving with no material hand or attachment.
" It may be well to point out that this plan which we adopted of
constantly verifying by direct appeals to each other, and then clearly
dictating to the note-taker outside, each in ndent while it was actually
occurring, introduces a special difficulty into the hypothesis of col-
lective hallucinations. For instance, when we have the note (July
21st), 'M. and L. holding both Eusapia's hands in air firmly . . .
the large table was by request of L. turned over on its back behind
M. and left with its feet in the air,' we must have correctly dictated
the overturn of the table, which was heard from outside, and remained
visible when the candle was lit ; but must at the same time, on the
hallucination hypothesis, have incorrectly stated that we were
holding Eusapia's hands ; —since she, instead of sitting between us as we
supposed, must have got up and left the circle, passed behind me to
overturn the table, and returned and taken our hands before the light
was struck directly afterwards. There must have been no vague or
general hallucination on our parts, but hallucinations perfectly distinct,
constantly varied, and always the same for all the persons present.
" The hypothesis of a confederate finding access to this small room,
on a desert island, under Professor Richet's control, in which room,
or on the verandah in front of which, we habitually lived, can
only be used as a subsidiary explanation. For besides the direct
writing, described by Professor Lodge, which occurred in full light
of lamp or candle, many other phenomena occurred in light which
enabled us to see each others' figures and faces so distinctly that
we could hardly have failed to notice any additional human
being engaged in pulling our beards, patting our heads, slapping us
on the back, and so forth.
Nov., 1894.] Discussion of Professor Lodge's Paper. 339
" Some may think that the hands which we held as the medium's
were composed, not of hallucination, but of sawdust. It would, how-
ever, be difficult to train a stuffed hand to perspire naturally,
to mark time to an accordion, and to clench one's palm with its
nails ; all which the small hand which I grasped undoubtedly did.
" Some persons, again, will no doubt think that one of us so-called
witnesses must have done the things himself. Against this my best
defence is, that as I have only sat four times with Eusapia I cannot
have done the things on the odd four hundred occasions or so on which
they have been reported to occur. A similar line of defence, I am
glad to think, is open to everyone who has ever sat with her. I think
that we discussed on the island every possible or impossible way
of producing these phenomena ; but I can see no explanation
except the hypothesis that the energy stored in the medium's body
can be used either by her own spirit or by some other spirit to do
mechanical work, not only in the usual way at the surface of her body,
but also at a distance of some feet from her apparent periphery."
Mrs. Sidgwick then said :
" As far as they go, my experiences
with Eusapia Paladino entirely confirm Professor Lodge, though they
do not go so far—for the phenomena T witnessed were never, I think,
such as could not have been produced by normal means had her hands
alone been free, whereas for some of his experiences it seems necessary
to assume her body also free. Still, my experiences were the most
impressive of the kind that I have ever had, though I have sat
with a good many mediums.
" Although the evidence, so far as my own experiences go,
entirely depends on whether her hands were efficiently held, yet, if
they were so held, I see no means of avoiding the supposition that
a supernormal agency was at work, since I confidently reject the
supposition that any confederate was present in the room, or that
some of the observers aided her in any way. For the phenomena
which impressed me most could not have been produced by means of her
mouth or her feet ; for instance, a grasp resembling that of a hand
on the head cannot be produced by a foot, nor can a billiard ball or
a large heavy melon without a stalk be conveyed from the table
behind the medium to the table in front by her teeth (and all
these things happened in my experience), —and besides, in cases
which did seem conceivably to admit of any such explanation,
it was excluded in subsequent trials by the securing of her feet and
her mouth. Indeed, during the most important parts of the seances at
which I was present, the feet were almost always held by the hands of
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1S94.
one or other of the investigators who placed himself under the table
for the purpose. M. Richet and M. Ochorowicz had come to the con-
clusion that this was a more satisfactory method of control than even
the electrical apparatus described by Professor Lodge.
"The question then—as regards my contribution to the evidence-
is, could there be any mistake about the holding of the hands?
At the seances which impressed me most, it did not seem to me that
I personally could be mistaken. I felt sure that I held the hand for-
which I was responsible, that it was Eusapia's hand, that it had the
texture of her skin, that it was continuous with her arm and sleeve,
and that it was her left hand, as could be verified by the position of
the thumb. And it may be observed in passing that it is not even
necessary to be assured of holding the hand continuously, provided
one has it at the moment the touch as of a hand is felt on the head
or shoulder, or that an object, such as a melon, is touching one's face
in its passage on to the table. At the time of these seances, ifc
seemed to me absolutely impossible that T should have been deceived^
and I certainly do not now know any method of deceptively
producing the sensations I had.
" At the first seance. Professor Sidgwick held the other hand, and
his conviction that he had it was, I think, as strong as mine that I
had the left hand, and under these circumstances we experienced various
touches and grasps which could only have been produced by a human
hand or a good imitation of it, and this when, as I say, the mouth
and the feet were fully accounted for. Similarly, at the last of our
series of seances, I again held the left hand, while the riglit was held
by a French physician. Dr. Segard. At this seance, at which all
the usual phenomena occurred in abundance, I was not onlj
confident that I held the left hand well, but that, independently of
that, (for reasons which it would take too long now to go into) if any
hand was free, it was the right hand. M. Segard was, however, quite
confident throughout—and we continually asked him —that he held
the right hand ; and not only so, but when in the course of the
seance we lighted up in order to see more clearly the position of things,
he certainly was holding it. I think that the feeling of both
Dr. Segard and myself after the sitting was that, if the phenomena,
were not genuine, the other sitter had let go the hand, but that to
accuse him of this was almost to accuse him of idiocy.
"To sum up then,—although, if my own experiences had stood
alone, I should have preferred to wait for further opportunities of
observation before laying them before the Society, I feel bound to
say that, as far as they go, they entirely confirm those of Professor
Nov., 1894] Discussion of Professor Lodge's Paper. 341
Lodge and Mr. Myers, and that I regard collusion or confederacy as
out of the question."
Mr. W. Crookes spoke to the follo-sving effect :
—
" Through the kindness of Professor Lodge I have had an opportunity
of reading a proof of his paper in advance, and it has occurred to me
that a few observations on certain diiferences which I have noted
between the phenomena occurring in Eusapia Paladino's presence and
those which I used to see with D. D. Home, might interest the
meeting.
"In the first place, most if not all the occurrences with Eusapia
seem to have taken place when she was in a trance, and the more
complete the trance the more striking the phenomena. This was not
always so with Home. Certainly the two most striking things I ever saw
with him, the fire test and visible forms, were to be observed while he was
entranced, but it was not always easy to tell when he was in that state,
for he spoke and moved about almost as if he were in his normal
condition ; the chief difl:erences being that his actions were more
deliberate, and his manner and expressions more solemn, and he
always spoke of himself in the third person, as 'Dan.'
" I several times saw the fire test, both at my own and at other
houses. On one occasion he called me to him when he went to the
fire and told me to watch carefully. He certainly put his hand in the
grate and handled the red-hot coals in a manner which would have
been impossible for me to have imitated without being severely burnt. I
once saw him go to a bright wood fire, and, taking a large piece of red-
hot charcoal, put it in the hollow of one hand, and covering it with
the other hand, blow into the extempore furnace till the coal was
white hot and the flames licked round his fingers. No sign of burning
could be seen then or afterwards on his hands.
" When he was not in a trance we frequently had movements of
objects in diflFerent parts of the room, with visible hands carrying
flowers about and playing the accordion. On one occasion I was
asked by Home to look at the accordion as it was playing in the
semi-darkness beneath the table. I saw a delicate-looking female hand
holding it by the handle, and the keys at the lower end rising and
falling as if fingers were playing on them, although I could not see
them. So life-like was the hand that at first I said it was my sister-
in-law's, but was assured by all present that both her hands were on
the table, a fact which I then verified for myself.
" The best cases of Home's levitation I witnessed were in my own
house. On one occasion he went to a clear part of the room, and after
standing quietly for a minute, told us he was rising. I saw him slowly
342 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov..
rise up with a continuous gliding movement and remain about six
nches off the ground for several seconds, when he slowly descended.
On this occasion no one moved from their places. On another occasion
I was invited to come to him, when he rose 18 inches off the ground,
and I passed my hands under his feet, round him, and over his head
when he was in the air.
" On several occasions Home and the chair on which he was sitting,
at the table rose off the ground. This was generally done very de-
liberately, and Home sometimes then tucked up his feet on the seat of
the chair and held up his hands in view of all of us. On such an
occasion I have got down and seen and felt that all four legs were off
the ground at the same time, Home's feet being on the chair. Less
frequently the levitating power extended to those sitting next to him.
Once my wife was thus raised off the ground in her chair.
"Home always had a great objection to darkness, and we generally
had plenty of light. I tried several experiments on lighting the room.
Once I illuminated it with Geissler vacuum tubes electrically excited,
but the result was not satisfactory; the flickering of the light distracted
one's attention. Another time I lighted the room with an alcohol flame
coloured yellow with soda. This gave everyone a ghastly look, but the
phenomena that took place were very strong, and I was told it was a
good light for the purpose. One of the best seances I ever had wa^
when the full moon was shining into the room. The blinds and
curtains were drawn back and there was light enough to enable one to
read small print.
"One of the most common occurrences at the seances consisted in
movements of flowers and light objects. Sometimes those present could
see fingers or a complete hand carrying things about, but frequently no
visible support was to be detected. The hands felt warm and life-like, and
if retained would appear to melt away in one's grasp. They were never
dragged away.
" One of the most striking things I ever saw in the way of move-
ments of light objects was when a glass water-bottle and tumbler rose
from the table. There was plenty of light in the room from two large
salted alcohol flames, and Home's hands were not near. The bottle
and glass floated about over the middle of the table. I asked if they
would answer questions by knocking one against the other. Immediately
three taps together signified 'Yes.' They then kept floating about six
or eight inches up, going from the front of one sitter to another round
the table, tapping together and answering questions in this manner.
Quite five minutes were occupied by this phenomenon, during which
time we had ample opportunity of seeing that Home was a passive
Nov., 1894.] Discussion of Professor Lodge's Paper. 343
agent, and that no wires or strings, &c., were in use. But the idea of
any such tricks was absurd, as the occurrence was in my own house,
and no one could have tampered with anything in the room. Home
not having been in the room till we all came in together for the seance.
On another occasion I asked for a word to be written by a pencil in my
presence without anyone's hand being near. A piece of paper, a pencil,
and a small wooden lath were on the table. The pencil rose up over
the paper and seenied as if it were trying to write, and the lath went
as if to steady it, but we were told the power was too weak to enable
writing to be done.
" I never noticed any sympathetic movements of Home's hands or
body when objects at a distance were being moved. I am certain
that in most cases, when Home was not in a trance, he knew no more
what was going to happen than did any one else present. He was
an excellent raconteur, and by no means kept silent. Frequently he
was looking another way, engaged in animated conversation with some
one at his side, when the first movements took place, and his attention
had to be called to them like the rest of us. He took a child-like
pleasure in anything that was going on, and he always declared he had
no power whatever over the progress of the phenomena.
"General conversation was going on all the time, and on many
occasions something on the table had moved some time before Home was
aware of it. We had to draw his attention to such things far of tener than
he drew our attention to them. Indeed, he sometimes used to annoy
me by his indifference to what was going on. When things were going
on well, ample opportunity was generally given us to examine the
occurrences at leisure, and frequently things would repeat themselves
at request, or small objects, flowers, &c ,
would move about for many
minutes passing from one to the other of those present. For my part
I was always allowed to move about and examine what was taking
place as carefully as I liked. All that we were asked was that we
should not move suddenly. This was liable to stop the phenomena for
a short time.
"I quite agree with what Professor Lodge says as to strangers.
They are, I suppose, necessary evils, but some of my best seances have
been spoiled by transparent and futile attempts at trickery on the part
of strangers who had begged for an invitation. On one occasion every-
thing seemed to promise a good sitting, and a very great man was
present at his earnest request. We sat for an hour with nothing
happening except sundry movements and noises, kicks and pushes,
evidently made by my visitor. At length he left, and a message was
received that '
they had been waiting till Mr. ceased to play the
344 Journal of Society for Psychical Re.^earch. [Nov.,
fool.' We then had an excellent seance. I subsequently heard that
our visitor went about saying we were a credulous lot. He had
successfully taken us in with raps and movements, but Home was too
clever to attempt to play any tricks in his presence.
" The drawback to accurate observation of Eusapia's phenomena
appears to have been the very dim light in which most of the things
occurred, rendering it necessary to take special precautions against
po'^sible deception. Had the light been better the elaborate holdings
of hands, feet, and head, would have been unnecessary, and the un-
avoidable suspicions that the person on the other side had liberated a
hand, would have been impossible. Home always refused to sit in the
dark.' He said that with firmness and perseverance the phenomena could
be got just as well in the light, and even if some of the things were not
so strong, the evidence of one's eyesight was worth making some sacri-
fice for. In almost all the seances I had with Home there was plenty
of light to see all that occurred, and not only to enable me to write
down notes of what was taking place but to read my notes without
difficulty. Home was very anxious to let everyone present be satisfied
that he was not doing any of the things himself— too anxious, I some-
times thought, for frequently he would interfere with the progress and
development of what was going on by insisting that some sceptic
or other should come round and take hold of his hands and feet
to be sure he was not doing anything himself. At times he would
push his chair back and move right away from the table when things
were moving on it, and ask those furthest from him to come round
and satisfy themselves that he had nothing to do with the movements.
I used frequently to beg him to be quiet, knowing that if he would not
move about in his eagerness to convince us of his genuineness, the
strength of the phenomena would probably increase to such a degree
that no further evidence would be needed that their production was
beyond the powers of the medium.
"During the whole of my knowledge of D. D. Home, extending
over several years, I never once saw the slightest occurrence that
would make me suspicious that he was attempting to play tricks. He
was scrupulously sensitive on this point, and never felt hurt at any-
one taking precautions against deception. He sometimes, in the early
days of our acquaintance, used to say to me before a seance, ' Now,
William, I want you to act as if I was a recognised conjurer, and was
going to cheat you and play all the tricks I could. Take every
precaution you can devise against me, and move about and look under
the table or where else you like. Don't consider my feelings. I shall
not be offended. I know that the more carefully I am tested the
Nov., 1894.] Discussion of Professor Lodge's Paper. 345
more convinced will everyone be that these abnormal occurrences are
not of ray own doings.' Latterly I used jokingly to say to him, ' Let
us sit round the lire and have a quiet chat, and see if our friends are
here and will do anyrhing for us. We won't have any tests or
precautions.' On these occasions, when only my own family were
present with him, some of the most convincing phenomena took place.
"I think it is a cruel thing that a man like D. D. Home, gifted with
such extraordinary powers, and always willing, nay, anxious, to place
himself at the disposal of men of science for investigation, should have
lived so many years in London, and with one or two exceptions no one
of weight in the scientific world should have thought it worth while to
look into the truth or falsity of things which were being talked about
in society on all sides. To those who knew him Home was one of the
most lovable of men, and his perfect genuineness and uprightness were
beyond suspicion, but by those who did not know him he was called
& charlatan, and those who believed in him were considered little
better than lunatics."
Mr. Crookes concluded by expressing his satisfaction that so
eminent a man of science as Professor Lodge should endorse the
conclusions he himself had arrived at so many years ago, and called
the attention of the meeting to the great courage exhibited by Mr.
Lodge in coming forward as he was doing.
Me. Page Hopps endorsed Mr. Crookes' final remarks, and referred
to similar phenomena witnessed by himself thirty years ago.
Mr. Baekworth asked if any observations had been made of
changes of temperature in the medium, by means of a clinical
thermometer or otherwise.
Professor Lodge replied that he thought it best to leave
observations of this kind to medical men. He had not noticed special
changes of temperature in the hands held by him.
Professor Sidgwick, in closing the meeting, expressed his general
concurrence in what had been said by Mrs. Sidgwick with regard to
the experiences in which they had both shared. Although he kept
his mind open to suggestions as to methods of producing an illusory
belief that a medium's hand was being held when it was in fact
free, he felt bound to say that none of the methods of this kind
that were known to him appeared to him to afford an admissible
explanation in the present case : and the supposition of confederacy
was still more completely excluded by the conditions of the experi-
ments. His experiences therefore, so far as they went, tended to
confirm the more interesting results obtained by Professor Lodge and
Mr. Myers.
346 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
APPENDIX I. TO PROFESSOR LODGE'S PAPER.
Excerpts from the detailed Notes.
Series of four sittings held on the ile Roubaud, Gien, Var, July, 1894,
in the house occupied by Professor Richet, owner of the island, and in the
presence of Professor Richet, Mr. Myers, Dr. Ochorowicz, and Professor
Lodge, with Eusapia Paladino, and a note-taker outside the room, M. Bellier.
Plan of room is subjoined. For general explanations and measurements
of furniture see above, under head "Preliminary Details." The names of
the sitters will be abbreviated thus : R, M, 0, L, and E.
Bough Plan of Sitting Room, on scale of inch to foot.
N
r
W—i—
E
s
I
G I
T
o o
D is a large fixed divan, 5 feet wide.
B is the buffet or sideboard, with shelves
'
above holding plates, glass, water
bottle, etc.
W is an unused upright writing desk.
F is the fireplace and mantelshelf.
M was a weighing-machine, and near it
were voltaic batteries and other ex-
perimental appliances on the tiled floor.
R, L and S are the round, the large, and
the small tables respectively, in their
customary positions ; but they were not
stationary.
V is the verandah, where all meals were
taken.
N is the table of the note- taker.
T is a heavy dining table, with marble-
top.
G is a garden seat, which prevented the
shutters of that window from being
opened widely without some trouble.
E is the front entrance to the house*
opening into passage and staircase.
Above the sitting-room is a bedroom,
where Lodge slept. There is no room
beneath it. To the left of passage is
the kitchen, with a back door. Beneath
the floor of the verandah is a lumber-
room or potting shed. The ground
slopes down steeply toward the south.
Nov., 1894.] Appendix 1. to Professor Lodges Paper.
First Sitting, July 21st, 1894.
Furniture arranged as in plan, except that the small table was a little
nearer to the window and door. The door could not be opened without
disturbing either R. or L. wlio were sitting near it. No unknown or
unspecified person was in the room.
Sitters at small table joined liands round ;
E., in very plain black
iStuff dress, had her back to the window all the first part of the time. A
lighted paraffin lamp, with a shade, stood on the round table.
At the beginning, the position of observers was as shown in
First the diagram. The unshod feet of E. were on a wooden apparatus
position.
^j^g pedals of a harmonium encased in a box and having a
^ complete partition between the two pedals so that one foot
could not possibly depress both. The depression of both
pedals shunted an electric bell out of a battery circuit,
0 thereby keeping it quiet, whereas when either was allowed
to spring up so much as an inch, the bell rang loudly.
Her hands were held by R. and 0. respectively.
9. 36.—Under these conditions, in full lamplight, with the hands held,
and feet on the machine, the black dress of E. being plainly visible
all over to M. and L. who could see well under the table, the table tilted
up at her end, wriggled about, and made a small quick jump completely off
the floor. This was then repeated. [These preliminary movements of
the light table always occur and are not devoid of interest, but as they
are less secure of proof than later occurrences they will not henceforth be
quoted.] The attention of L. was then called to protuberances of E.'&
dress near her left leg, protuberances or gonflements which came and went.
L. leaned over and touched one of these protrusions, about 12 inches from
the floor, and it instantly retreated. This was repeated several times,
and the contact each time evoked a slight cry from the medium, but nothing
was grasped on this occasion. L. observed that both her feet were
distinctly visible on the machine, (which though tested before and after was
now quite silent), otherwise the protrusion looked and felt not unlike a
raised and laterally protruded heel. [This occurrence is recorded as infor-
mation, not as being first-rate evidence.]
10.14.—Raps on the table and tilts occurred which showed intelligence
and permitted a change in the positifm of the observers, as
Second shown in second diagram.
position. rpj^g
machine was now soon dispensed with. L. held the
1
Q left hand of E. and had one of her feet on his. M. held the
other hand and foot similarly ; and they continually kept each
other informed as to the security of each. E. had no shoes on,
L M and M. and L. had on soft slippers so that they could be sure of
'
really feeling feet. There was often a twitching of her body
^ and spasmodic jerking of her fingers but never sufficient to
cause loss of control. The lamp was lowered.
10.21.—The first distinctly abnormal occurrence took place now, whem
348 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
everything was under perfect control as stated. M. was touched lightly on
the back several times.
10.24. —Light lowered more, M. held both her hands in the air, L. held
her head, and each held one foot. M. was again touched distinctly in the
back.
The lamp now went out of itself. Dark.
10.30.—E.'s hands being well held by L. and M. on the table, M.'s
beard was distinctly pulled ; he was also touched on the shoulder and
.clapped loudly on the back.
Both E.'s feet were now firmly held by M., and her hands were held by
L. and M. as before. Several strong slaps occurred, and then the chair of
M. was withdrawn from under him, and arrived on the table, knocking L.'s
head as it came.
10.35. —A light was now struck, and position of affairs observed. The
lamp was then again lowered considerably.
10.47.—While L. held both feet and left hand, and M. held right hand,
L. was touched on the right side and also on the knee.
10.49. —Nearly dark again.
10.51. —R. 's arm was grasped and M. pinched several times. While L.
held head and both hands, and M. held both feet, M. was touched as with
a hand on his arm and body.
11.2. —Hands and feet well held. R. was .scratched as by nails and
touched on head, M. was loudly .slapped on shoulder and strongly pinched,
and the large table behind M. came violently part way towards us along the
floor.
11.9. —L. had whiskers pulled on left side as by fingers, and he was also
touched on shoulder and head ;
(hands and feet held all the time.)
11. 10. —M. was distinctly pinched as by five fingers, one after the other
touching, and then all pinching simultaneously. E. had predicted in this
case what was going to be done by going through the appropriate
movements with her fingers, as they were being held con.stantly in the hand
of M.
"
11.14. —M. was pushed very definitely [and many other such contacts
occurred, which it would be tedious to narrate further]. Hands being held
all round, the large table approached, answered questions by tilts, and rose
V entirely in the air, being dimly visible to 0. It was entirely untouched.
11.32. —A sound as of smart friction of thumb and fingers in the air near
E., whose hands were well held.
L. then felt a hairy rough contact on the back of his head and shoulders,
on the side of his face and front of his forehead, as of something hairy
moving about and gently rubbing his head. Spoke of it first as like a hairy
cat, afterwards as a fringe of a curtain. Conceived that he heard the rustle of a
window curtain behind him and that its fringe was raised over and touching
his head. E. was completely under control all the time, and the position of
everybody in the circle was well known. [This was a very curious and
unmistakeable sensation, which could not possibly have been caused
normally by anyone sitting at the table.]
Nov., 1894.] Appemlix I. to Professor Lodges Paper.
11.34.—L., holding both hands of E., was distmctly touched as by a hand
on the shoulder and back of head. The hairy mass was again felt by him.
11.36.—M.'s chair was again drawn from under him and put on the
middle of the table, and M. remained standing. The large table drew
nearer ; hands and feet of E. well held.
11.43.—M. and L. both saw faint lights in the middle of the table, like
firefly scintillations, clear and sharp though of low luminosity.
M. felt the hairy contact on his head while still standing up, and while
L. had E.'s head touching his shoulder, her hands constantly held. [This
repetition under still better conditions was done to emphasise the fact that
it was not the medium's hair that was being felt.] The large table again
moved and turned over on its side, turning over so as not to break the
battery close by. E. announced that "John" would write, and asked
which table it should be on. R. selected large table, and asked for
cross in red. E. said doubtful, and drew with M.'s finger on R.'s hand an
irregular figure feeling like a circle with a knot attached [to show what would
be attempted].
M. was touched twice on his right side, and felt a large hand on his
back, also a hairy mass on his head, and a violent push in the back. E.
placed her head against M.'s arm, and M. felt the hairy contact on the top
of his head clearly. .
-d >
12.4.—M. and L. each holding one of E.'s hands firmly in the air, K. s
hand was strongly grasped and held as by a hand while 31 was counted. At
request of L. the large table then turned itself over on its back behind M.
and was left with its feet in the air.
A light was now struck, and the under surface of table (now turned
upwards), was examined for marks. Nothing was found
except joiners' lines which had been there before. The table \
was now half raised, so that its legs were horizontal, and its
( Q r\
upper surface shewed at once a large blue scrawl of this
shape. Nocross was found [such as had been asked for above]. (
[Although it is unlikely that so large and prominent a
scrawl would have escaped previous observation, the proof of its immediately
previous absence is incomplete .]
There was now full light and the seance was understood to have stopped.
But E asked for a blue pencil, and when one was found and given her
she proceeded to cover the tip of her fore-finger with blue chalk. She then
cave this finger to R. to hold, and with it extended she walked up to the
vertically-standing top surface of the large table, and made near, but not
touching it, a couple of quick cross marks in the air. The blue had then
disappeared from her finger, and two large blue crosses, sharply drawn, not
as with finger tip, were found at the back or far side of the table, viz., on
one of the sideboards of the under side which had been just previously
examined for such marks. There was no fresh mark on the surface in front
of which she had made the gestures.
[This is a remarkable phenomenon if genuine, but it has too much the
superficial aspect of a conjuring trick to be altogether satisfactory.]
350 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
12.35. —Sittings at the small table were now resumed, with a change of
position. The table was moved considerably further from the window and
the positions were as shewn. The shutter was more widely
Third opened so as to admit light from the bright moon outside.
vosition. rpj^g
candle of the recorder also gave some little lisht,
but the lamp inside the room was not lighted R. held both
I.
M arms and one hand of E., while M. held both feet and her
other hand. R. then felt a hand move over his head and rest
on his mouth for some seconds, during which he spoke to us
O with his voice muffled. The round table now approached.
R.'s head was stroked behind. R. held both E.'s knees, still
retaining one hand while M. held the other, and the round
table continued to approacli in violent jerks.
]2.49. —A small cigar box fell on to our table, and a sound was heard in
the air as of something rattling. R. was holding head and right hand ; M.
,
holding left hand, raised it in the air holding it lightly by the tips of its
fingers, but with part of his own hand free. A saucer containing small shot,
'(from another part of the room), was then put into this hand of M. in the
^ir. A covered wire of the electric battery came on to the table and
wrapped itself round R. 's and E. 's heads, and was pulled till E. called out.
Henceforth R. held her head and body, M. kept one hand and both feet,
while L. held the other hand, and in this position E. made several
spasmodic movements, each of wliich was accompanied or followed by
violent movements of the neighbouring round table.
12.57. —The accordion which was on the round table got on to the floor
somehow, and began to play single notes. Bellier counted 26 of them and
then ceased counting. While the accordion played, E.'s fingers made move-
ments in the hands of both M. and L. in accord with the notes as if she were
playing them at a distance with difficulty. The lightly-touched quick notes
were also thus felt by L. with singular precision. Sometimes the touch failed
to elicit a response, and this failure was usually succeeded by an interval of
silence and rest.
1.5. —E. being well held, M. heard a noise on the round table at his side,
and turning to look saw a white object detach itself from the table and
move slowly through the clear space between his own head and E. 's, visibly
-crossing the painted stripes of colour on the wall of the room. L. now saw
the object coming past M.'s head and settling on the table. It was the
lamp-shade coming white side first.
1.10. —The round table was moved further off and blows came upon it.
L. was touched on the back, while R. saw both E.'s hands (which were still,
as always, being held), and her body was also visible.
1.17 —The "chalet," which was on the round table, now began to play,
and then visibly approached, being seen by both M. and L. coming though
the air, and settled on our table against M.'s chest. Shortly afterwards it
moved away from M.'s chest on to the middle of our table and ])layed there.
Then it got on the floor between R. and E., and R. said " enough of that
iSiov., mi.] Appendix 1. to Professor Lodge's Paper. 351
music." It stopped, probably because run down. M. was repeatedly and
vigorously pushed on the back while L. was trying to see what was touching
liim [changing places with O. for the purpose]. L. could see M.'s
back readily, but could not see anything upon it, though M. kept on
calling out that he was being pushed, and that things which pushed
like that must be visible. Soon afterwards the sitting was suspended
and E. came out of the trance. During the latter half of the sitting,
E. had taken one of M.'s fingers and drawn some scrawls with it
outside R.'s flannel jacket, which was buttoned up to his neck. M. said:
" She is using me to write on you," and it was thought no more of. But
after the seance, when undressing, R. found on his shirt front, underneath
both flannel jacket and high white waistcoat, a clear blue scrawl ;
and he
came at once to bedrooms to shew it.
[The account of this sitting has been quoted at considerable length as a
specimen : it will not be necessary to quote all equally fully ;
nor is it
suggested that all the incidents quoted are equally valid as evidence. It
was not the best sitting, but it was a good one, and it may be noted that
(at 11.34) L. was distinctly touched as by a hand on the shoulder and the
back of his head while he himself was holding both hands of Eusapia ;
and
that twice (at 1.5 and at 1.17) a small object moved visibly through the air.]
Second Sitting, July 1894.
Same persons present, but arranged differently at small table, as shown.
No one else was in the room. Bellier was outside the window taking notes.
E. had her back to the window, in which a chair
First Position. stood, and on it the chalet was placed beforehand.
_2 ?L_ There was only a very small amount of light at first.
M ^ selection of the events only is quoted, principally
1 those in which L. was specially concerned.
The feet of Eusapia were placed without slippers
on the electric apparatus, so that neither foot could be raised an
inch without ringing a bell ; her hands were wide apart and held
quite distinctly, the left by L. and the right by M.
Various small phenomena occurred, and movements of the table, etc.
M. felt the hairy contact on his head such as L. had felt on the 21st,
also a thick-feeling hand on his back, etc.
Under the above condition of holding, a couple of loud claps, as of free
hands in the air, were heard. One of the window curtains was flung forcibly
over the sitters. M. was clapped audibly on the back, and at the same
moment the chalet (musical box) was raised oflF a chair where it had been
placed, behind Eusapia, touched M. as it came, and stood upon the table.
Hands being still held it came next on to the chest of L., and then got on to
the ground. In this case it was not playing. R . was then told to hold his
hand up free in the air, and the chalet was gently deposited in it. L.'s head
was now seized and forcibly squeezed and shaken, as if by two strong hands
352 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
or stumps ; and "John " was understood to claim the " hairy mass " as his-
beard, and to be rebuking L. for asserting it to be a curtain fringe. The
chalet had been replaced on table, and, while Eusapia's hands were well held
and the position of her head and mouth observed, it wound itself up and
started to play. While playing it descended on to the floor. There it ran down,
and stopped playing, but while still on the floor it wound itself up again and
rose on to the table once more, playing as it came. Eusapia's hands were'
under perfect control all the time, and the foot apparatus was now tested
and found to be working well.
L. was then permitted to hold both arms and both feet (the foot apparatus
being removed) and he was then touched twice on the back and grasped
distinctly on the left arm. E. then held up one of L.'s hands and with it
made two small movements, and at each movement a chair not far distant
grated along the floor as if pushed or pulled. (This sort of action occurred
many times and is very characteristic.)
The shutter was arranged to let in more moonlight.
The chair from behind E. now arrived on the top of table, and while there
in full view rose up and down several times ; E.'s hands, under control, not
touching it, but making appropriate or sympathetic movements to-
correspond.
R. and L. now changed places so that L. could face
Second position. window and see if the things which were frequently
0 touching M. were visible. R. held head and left hand
^ and left foot of E. M. held right hand and foot. R. and
O. saw things across the window : then L., leaning over
j5 the table, saw, crossing the light of the window, a dark
protuberance stretching over from E. towards M.'s head
and shoulder ; it looked like three or four large stiff' black feathers or ragged
fingers, trying to reach M.'s shoulder and just not succeeding. The object
then drooped and seemed to touch M.'s forearm, and, at the same instant as
L. saw the contact, M. exclaimed as feeling a touch, and said his arm and
elbow had been touched and shaken. [This was a very distinct experience.}
E. still well held, the curtain approached R., and he felt something hard
inside it. M. received several slaps on the back, but L. could see nothing
of what did it, though he could see M.'s back. Getting
Third position (First tired of these numerous contacts, all got up. Both shutters
at square table).
-were widely opened so that plenty of moonlight entered
E R the room, and then all stood round the "large table
"
holding hands in a chain ; table readily visible ; E. had on
no shoes or slippers, was clad in plain dark gown ;
posi-
tion of observers shewn in diagram. M. held E.'s right
hand so that it was over table, but not quite touching it.
M
Q R. held her left hand so that it lightly touched the top
of the table. While thus arranged, M. felt a strong slap
on the back which everybody heard, and the table began to rise, at first
tilting, but presently it rose completely and remained horizontally up in the
Nov., 1894.] Appendix I. to Professor Lodges Paper. 353
Fourth position (Second
at large table).
E L
M
R
air, a foot or so off the floor, for one or two seconds ; it then fell heavily.
R. and L. then changed places, and L. held E.'s left
hand just as R. had, viz., just lightly touching the
top of the table with her fingers ; L. also touched her
feet with his, but could not be sure of more than one
foot continuously. The table then rose exactly as
before, staying two seconds horizontally in the air.
E. 's body shewed signs of efi'ort while this occurred,
but still the hand held by M. did not touch the table
and the hand held by L. only lightly touched it. 'No one-
else touched the table at all. [Since only one foot was
safely accounted for it must be supposed that the other was free ;
but even so
it appears to me impossible for any person to lift a table of this size and
weight while standing up to it, with hands only on top, without plenty of
leg action, and considerable strength and pressure of hands. It was quite
beyond any normal power of Eusapia. A tnan sitting at such a table can
raise it by means of one knee and foot, but he cannot so raise while standing,
with his hands only on the top.]
Dimensions and weight of table are given under " Preliminary Details.'"
O
Third Sitting, Jidy 2oth.
The position of the three tables was altered so as to be more like what is
here shewn ; the second position of sitters being also represented (the first
position was the same, except that R. and L. were interchanged) :—
O R
Small Table M
Q " Chalet " suspended to ceiling.
E
L. had suspended the " chalet," with its lowest point 5 feet from the floor,
to a hook in the centre of the ceiling, by a bit of string, to see what would
happen to it under these circumstances, and he had made sure that it was
completely run down, so that it could not play till wound up. It hung at a
distance distinctly beyond Eusapia's normal reach : at least two feet beyond.
Lodge had entirely arranged the room as he wished, and kept special guard
over it to see that no one entered or tampered with anything ;
locking the
door immediately after the sitters were admitted.
The first experiment was the extraction of a^couple of halma-men out of
354 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
a box without removing the lid ; but since the men in the box had not been
counted beforehand, this experiment must be rejected as uncertain.
[There is no other record of the extraction of matter from a closed box by
this medium that I am aware of.] The second was the production of scent,
something like verbena, on the medium's hands; but there was not sufficient
evidence of the absence of such scent from the island. The large table
behind medium now moved along the floor, while medium was under
complete control ; her hands, feet, and knees being held. Then an electric bell-
push, which L. had arranged on round table, just within normal reach, was
touched so as to ring the bell. The square table was violently dragged about,
and loud bangs occurred on it. Then Richet and Lodge interchanged places
[so as now to correspond with the above diagram], and several times
during the next hour Lodge was touched, grasped, and pinched, while he
distinctly held both Eusapia's hands and feet. He also let one of his
hands be held by Eusapia's two hands, feeling down her sleeves and
having a light struck to assure himself that the holding was correctly felt,
and under these conditions a distinct hand was applied to his right arm, and
when he put his free {i.e., Ochorowicz-holding) hand to the place it was
gripped momentarily too, giving a clear feeling of nails and of thumb and
fingers. Also, while Lodge held both hands and feet, the large table was
several times violently moved, and other clear movements of smaller objects
occurred.
The agency was asked to wind up the suspended chalet, but reported
that it turned round [naturally] when the attempt was made.
The accordion, a candlestick, and other objects arrived on the table.
Eusapia now held both her hands on Lodge's head, and Myers held both her
knees. She then said 5 times " tira " spasmodically, and at each utterance
the square table made a vigorous scrajjing movement along the floor towards
us. This lasted 4 seconds as recorded by Bellier outside, from the evidence
of his own ears and the watch in front of him.
While Lodge held both the medium's hands on the table, and also her
head leaning over on to him away from the chalet, (see figure above), and
while Richet held both her feet, the suspended chalet was heard to be
wound partially up 3 times, with brief pauses, taking four seconds in all,
as heard and recorded by Bellier. It did not now begin to play, but began
to flap, as if its doors were trying to open. Soon it began to play and raps
were heard on it. While it played Eusapia's hands waved L's hands in the
air in time with the music. It soon stopped, but was immediately re-wound
and went on playing some time. While this was going on, the chalet began
to swing and the string was heard to break, but instead of dropping on
the floor, the chalet was gently placed on M. 's head and thence on to the
table. [This phenomenon occurred under quite satisfactory conditions.]
L. was told to hold one hand loosely against the skirt of Eusapia, still
holding her two hands with the other, and he then felt his hand gripped
quickly several times as by a hand through her dress. He had also several
distinct hand-grasps as from a bare hand coming from E.'s shoulder, both
ber real hands being at the time completely in his control. He did not
Nov., 1894.] Apiyendix I. to Professor Lodges Paper. 355
succeed in grasping one of these pseudo-hands ;
though other observers did
on other occasions. Attempt was now made to prolong one of these
pressures. A hand was felt on M.'s back and he began counting seconds.
The hand pressed at each count 5 times, and remained still up to 10 times,
when it slapped audibly and disappeared. Observation made in light as to
correct holding of Eusapia's real hands.
[A great number of other phenomena occurred, but the above are
sufficient to quote at present. This was the best sitting.]
After the sitting there occurred a curious writing episode, in which the
clean finger nail of Professor Richet, held by Eusapia, was made to act as a
blue crayon and to leave a thick blue pencil mark when drawn thus along
white paper in full candle light. This was done several times, and the
formation of the last two of these marks was closely watched by all in the
light close to a candle. It appeared to L. as if the blue did not appear
dh-ectly under the nail, but slightly on one side, as if some invisible
protrusion from the fingers of Eusapia (which themselves were about half
an inch off the paper) were really producing it, but he does not vouch for
this detail and only records it as a memorandum for future observation.
[The paper was certainly clean beforehand, and the marks could be seen
being formed.]
Fourth Sitting, July 2Qth.
On 26th July a sitting was held in which Ochorowicz took notes outside
the window, Bellier having left the island ;
and the observers were Richet,
Myers, and Lodge. The room was again arranged and guarded by Lodge,
who again locked the door when the other two observers had entered with
Eusapia. The first incident of note was some extremely loud and dangerous-
sounding bangs on the square table and on the small table at which they
sat. These bangs were louder than could be made with hand blows [and
were sufficient to cause alarm for the safety of the hands among which they
sometimes occurred].
L. and M. distinctly and simultaneously saw a small bright light rapidly
moving in front of them above the table, like a spark or a firefly. The
small table rose high into the air in fair light, and remained there barely
touched by E. on the top, while eleven was counted.
An arm chair in the window, four feet of clear space intervening
between it and the back of Eusapia, now began to move. It was very
visible to Lodge and to all; the shutters being open and sky-light glinting on
the back of the chair. It was seen to approach and otherwise move a
few inches several times, it also made intelligent visible tilts in reply to
questions. Eusapia was well held, and all conditions perfect. No one was
near the chair. , , t.
•
j
The window curtain, five feet away from everybody, and behind
Eusapia, now rose and swelled out across the window. M. now held Eusapia's
head, and at the same time L. saw the outline of a large face or mask over
the window, but it might have been made out of the edge and fringe of the
swollen curtain. It remained there 20 or 30 seconds, and an imitaticm
366 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
'
' hand " moved about and touched the nose of the face to call attention to it.
Then the curtain suddenly fell back into its ordinary shape and quietude.
The window was only slightly open, and there was no wind such as could
distort the curtain thus ; nor was there anyone concealed in the room.
L. had tied a fan belonging to the medium under the table before the
sitting, without mentioning the fact ; this was now wrenched forcibly away
from its fastenings and flung upon the table.
Richet was grasped or clutched as by a large hand with open fingers
applied to his head, he himself at the time holding both the hands of the
medium.
Eusapia's hands being well held, Myers' wallet with books and papers
was lifted from the floor on to the table. It weighed 12 pounds.
Noise as of key being fumbled in the door, and Ochorowicz from outside
asked who was unlocking the door. Eusapia's hands were well held and
no one was near the door. The clear space of several feet near door was
plainly enough visible. Blows occurred on the door. The key then arrived
on the table, [and was felt there by L.] It disappeared again, and was
heard to be replacing itself in the door with a sound as of the door being
locked (or unlocked) ; then the key came again on to the table into Richet's
hand and stayed there. (At the beginning of the seance the door had been
locked, and at the end it was still locked ;
judging by sound, it had
j)robably been unlocked and locked again during this episode. The door
certainly remained shut all the time.) Richet saw an indistinct black
square-looking object which seemed to prolong the key when it was brought
towards his hand.
There was light enough to see the position of everybody's normal hands
all the time on this occasion, and we were sitting some four or five feet
distant from the door. [It was a perfectly distinct phenomenon.]
Richet next saw something detached, like a bird in the air, going to M.'s
head. At the instant he saw it touch, M. called out that he was touched on
the head.
L. ,
R., and M. then all saw the curious imitation-hand or feather
fingers stretching horizontally over the vertical gap between the half open
shutters : a thing which L. had several times seen before.
M. was seized from behind while standing, and vigorously pulled and
shaken about ; while all four were standing holding hands round the table.
L. saw him moving and felt a transmitted pull. A loaf and other objects
from the bufi"et hard by arrived on the table, and a pile of five plates.
Our small table was in front of the bufiet. Evei-ybody was now standing
up, and observers were getting tired, so we asked to stop, but agency
insisted on continuing. Statement made that the medium needed re-
freshment, but the agency said it could see to that. A gurgling noise was
heard as if the medium was drinking from a bottle, and directly afterwards
a decanter of water which had been on a top shelf of the buffet arrived
on the table ; then it rose again to the medium's mouth, where it was felt
horizontally by Richet, and again she drank. It then came again on to the
table, and stayed there.
Nov., 1894.] Appendix II. to Professor Lodge's Paper. 357
[There was so much locomotion in this seance that it is useless to »ive
.a plan. The position of buffet B and escritoire W, of door and window, is
shown in plan at beginning of this Appendix. Most of the sitting and
standing was near the buffet.]
Medium now conducted the standing group to near the writing desk in
the corner, and made three little movements with her held hand. They
seemed to take effect and tilt the desk backwards, after a very short but
appreciable interval. Then she moved further away and repeated the action
;
the same movement of the bureau occurred, but with more delay. Then
once more, this time two metres from the desk ; and the interval elapsing
before the response was now greater, perhaps as much as two seconds.
Oliver J. Lodge.
Note. —The following written statement was made by Dr. Uchorowicz,
•who acted as note-taker during this sitting.
" Je certifie que tous les hruita entendus par les assistants dans la chambre
ou a eu lieu la seance ont ete entendus par moi en dehors dn cerde et en dehors
•de la chambre."
(Signed) J. Uchorowicz.
July 27th, 1894.
APPENDIX II. TO PROFESSOR LODGE'S PAPER.
On some Appliances needed pgr a Psychical Laboratory.
Assuming that the facts here recorded, when taken in conjunction with
a multitude of similar facts vouched for by other observers, suffice to
establish the existence of a class of physical phenomena not yet recognised
by science, it is natural to suppose that they are but the foreshadowings
of a mass of new knowledge, i
that they are the early stages of a whole
body of science. Such has usually been the past experience of the human
race in connexion with a new department of observation, and until the
Attempt is made to develop our knowledge of these phenomena on scientific
lines, we cannot tell whether or no that experience is to be repeated in this
•case also.
The investigations are on one side more difficult and troublesome than
are ordinary physical experiments, because they involve a person as a chief
instrument of research ; and this person requires humane and cautious
treatment of a kind quite different from that accorded to ordinary apparatus.
But although this is the case with the chief instrument, there are a number
of subsidiary pieces of apparatus necessary for the investigation, of a kind
not very different from those needed in any physical or chemical research ;
and if the observations are to go on easily and well, special appliances must
be contrived and arranged conveniently for use, precisely as is done in any
properly fitted laboratory.
1 In using the word "new " here I would be understood to use it in the sense in
which biologists speak of a "new species"; not meaning that it has just been
•created, nor even that it has never been used by man for decorative or nutritive
purposes, but in the sense that now for the first time it is being recorded by orthodox
and organised science for future study.
358 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894.
It has already, doubtless, been realised that one of the needs of] the
future is a psychical laboratory specially adapted for all kinds of experi-
mental psychology and psycho-physics, and I believe that such laboratories
already exist in several countries ; but I proceed to indicate a few
additional pieces of apparatus such as are suggested by the demands of the
present enquiry.
One of the chief needs is a well arranged registering balance, with its
platform level with the Hoor, so that the medium's chair can be placed upon
it with perfect and obvious security. The same platform might be arranged
to indicate horizontal forces as well as vertical ones. The actual movements
should be small and imperceptible ; it is the force which should be registered,
in order to determine the nature and locality of reactions experienced by
the body of the medium.
The registration should occur on a drum driven by the standard clock of
the place, which should have a dial visible to the note-taker, perhaps tO'
experimenters also, so that there be no question about diflerences of time ;
and the same clock should beat audible seconds for convenience of rapid
time-estimates.
While so much is unknown about the subject, it would be necessary at
first to take a number of observations more or less at random, until it is
found out which are the operative conditions and which may be ignored.
Then, in addition to the medium's weight, it will be well to take his or her
temperature, muscular exertion, pulse, breathing, &c., &c. ; and all this
would be best done in some automatically registering manner by apparatus
outside the room, and actuated through a single thin strand of wires from
the person of the medium, arranged not to incommode him or imj^ede his
movements.
The entire record might be made on one large drum or paper-roll, on
which also a hand-worked stylus could record the instant of the various
phenomena. If worth while, indeed, not only the time, but the nature of
the phenomenon also could be indicated, by an arrangement like Cowper's
writing telegraph. The chart exhibiting all these events simultaneously
recorded could hardly fail to yield instruction to subsequent leisurely
study.
Until more is known it may be well also to take some simple data, before
and after the seance, from the sitters also ; and unless the apparatus is
conveniently arranged in an ante-chamber for doing this quickly, it is sure
to be overlooked.
It is probably specially desirable to record the muscular swellings of the
medium, say by the yield of slight elastic collars round the principal muscles,
so as to ascertain what sort of exertion is needed for each class of distant
movement, and where each exertion is localised.
Other devices of a more purely mechanical kind could be made to replace
the "tables" and "chairs" of the ordinary seance room. A table is
evidently convenient to mediums because it permits contact of both hands
and feet ; but this renders it unsatisfactory to investigators. A sort of table,
i.e., a thing standing on the floor and yet reachable by hands, could be
easily made so as to ring a bell in its own cavity whenever it was raised
Nov., 189-1.] Appendix II. to Professor Lodge's Paper. 359
from the floor nnthotit pressure under any of its feet ; but if it experienced
pressure on its feet, as it does when standing on the floor for instance, then
the bell could be silent.
The same sort of plan, extended underneath its boards, could gradually
show the locality of the raising force as applied to the table ; and a balance
under the table could perhaps indicate where the reaction was, supposing
that it were not on the medium.
If so elaborate a plan were necessary, it would be possible to arrange
that the floor was chequed out into square-foot-blocks, all apparently steady,
but all really recording their load on one drum by means of a carbon-cloth
rheostat underneath each. The tops of the blocks, if smoked or whitened,
could indicate upon which of them the table or the medium had rested, and
the record on the drum would shew where and when the reaction force had
been applied. It may be possible to get the locality of the reaction force by
a simpler means than this, but such an arrangement as the one indicated
would be feasible in a permanent laboratory ; and it might not be safe to
assume, without proof, that the locality must necessarily be the same for
every kind of medium.
It must, however, be remembered that the experiment room should not
act on the medium in a repellent manner ; it is probably well that all
mechanical devices be more or less concealed under a superficial aspect of
comfort and ordinary homeliness.
Another, or perhaps the same, seance room should be arranged with special
reference to its optical properties, with the especial object of obtaining as
much light as possible of a kind unobjectionable to the medium. Thus it
is sometimes stated that they do not mind phosphorescent light. If so, the
walls and ceiling could be painted with phosphorescent paint.
It is sometimes said that though mediums object to sudden changes of
luminosity, they do not so much mind a slow change even in the direction
of increase. If so, a gas or electric lamp could be arranged automatically
to keep on raising itself slowly and imperceptibly, at the same time
retaining the power of being turned down occasionally whenever a demand
for less light is made. Occasions would probably arrive when the increased
illumination would pass unnoticed, especially if the phenomena were
occurring easily, and then accordingly the sitters could get an unusually good
view.
But a still better device may be to arrange a room so that it shall be
flooded with invisible ultra-violet light, sufficient for a constant series of
photographs to be taken of its interior by a clockwork device outside.
Pinhole photography would be best, as no special focussing is then
necessary, and the perspective is correct ; but the exposures might have to
be too long.
A number of cameras could look into the room through holes in the
wa Is, and silently record its state at regular short intervals on a long ribbon,
with the times marked. They could either go continuously, or they could
"be started by the note-taker or one of the observers pulHng a string before
the occurrence of any special event, of the probable coming of which an
experienced observer is usually aware.
360 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1894..
A method of admitting ultra-violet light in considerable quantity, on
which a few years ago I made some preliminary experiments, is to have
the ceiling of the room made of a great tank or set of tanks filled with
ammonio-sulphate-of-copper solution, open to the sky ;
and to sit in the
daytime. A sufBcient thickness of this substance stops the visible but
transmits some of the photographic solar rays. Perhaps a better and cheaper
plan is to fit the room with plentiful north and north-sky windows glazed
with black quartz, or some dark varieties of fluor spar. And in this case
artificial light on the other side of the windows might serve for night
sittings ; but an arc-light is an exceedingly feeble substitute for country
daylight, and it is well to employ somewhat brilliant ultra-violet "illumina-
tion" in order to be able to get results with rapid exposures and avoid,
blurring.
Other devices, such as smoked surfaces, wet clay, etc., for obtaining an
imprint of the " hands," and other abnormal protuberances, with registering
thermometers for ascertaining their temperature, will readily suggest them-
selves as soon as a serious study of these things is contemplated ;
and no
more well-developed "mediums" ought to be wasted in fruitless efforts to
obtain scientific recognition for the phenomena which their organisms are
able to exhibit.
The result of my experience is to convince me that certain phenomena
usually considered abnormal do belong to the order of nature ;
and, as a
corollary from this, that these phenomena ought to be investigated and
recorded by persons and societies interested in natural knowledge.
Oliver J. Lodge.
No. CXV.-VoL. VI. .
Decembek, 1894.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
Case of Hysteria accompanied by Supernormal Perception 361
Cases received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
Supplementary Library Catalogue
CASE OF HYSTERIA, CATALEPSY AND UNSTABLE
CONSCIOUSNESS, ACCOMPANIED BY SUPERNORMAL
PERCEPTION.
By R. Osgood Mason, A.M., M.D.
Miss M., 22 years old, of Irish parentage, was born in New York,
and was a teacher in the public schools. She had dark hair, heavy
eyebrows, and rather a pasty and unhealthy appearance. On her way
home from school, July 13th, 1870, she received a shock by seeing an
accident. I first saw her late in the evening of the same day. She
was lying upon a sofa, her hair and dress in great disorder, and her
whole appearance perfectly wild. She was startled at the slightest
noise, and every few minutes she screamed at the top of her voice,
and with the most terror-stricken look upon her face, at some fearful
vision which was before her, and in which she saw a dear friend, who
was really at that moment sitting by her side, fall from some high
place, by which she was supposed to be bruised and mangled m a
shocking manner.
A similar state of things continued during the three following
days, when, rather suddenly, paralysis appeared. It was crossed,
affecting the right side of the face and the left arm and leg. Speech
was difficult, and the affected limbs were nearly powerless.
July 18th.—The case was seen in consultation by a well-known
medical gentleman ; but a diagnosis between a clot and hysteria as the
cause of the paralysis was not then clearly made.
July 25th.—There is some slight improvement in the general con-
dition of the patient, but the screaming fits and the dreadful visions still
occur. She has also had attacks of entire loss of consciousness last-
ing sometimes two hours, accompanied by loss of motion except some
very slight spasmodic action of the muscles. Paralysis remained the
same as at first, excepting some slight improvement in speech.
July 28th.—There is very little change. The patient sits up,
362 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1894.
appears rational. Can get across the room by the assistance of
another person holding her up on the affected side ; she drags the
paralyzed foot after her, the ankle turning in or out as a little weight
might happen to fall upon it : the hand is also nearly powerless.
Decided to try Mesmerism. Made use of the long passes from head
to foot for ten minutes, then continued by holding the thumbs and
directing the patient to look steadily at a specified object. There was
a good deal of nervous agitation and twisting of the hands ;
she feels
a sensation like an electric current passing up through her hands and
arms. Began to be sleepy in five or six minutes ;
eyelids quivered and
began to droop and very soon she went into an unconscious condition,
but some nervous action of the hands continued. She slept fifteen
minutes and then awoke suddenly. She smiled, looked brighter, and
declared she felt greatly rested and refreshed, as though she had had
"two nights' sleep."
July 31st. —Patient is decidedly better—has had no attacks of
screaming nor of unconsciousness. The paralysis is the same as before.
Hypnotised by holding the thumbs and the steady gaze—she slept as
on the previous occasion, but much more quietly. During sleep I
made a single, firm, rapid pass down the outside of the paralyzed leg,
from above the knee to the foot. Patient awoke suddenly with a
start and an exclamation : asked sharply what I had done to her leg
—
declared that I had cut it, and looked suspiciously about for the knife.
I assured her that ho instrument of any kind had been used, and sug-
gested that she should try to move her limb. She moved it readily.
She then put down her hand, and, pinching her affected leg, exclaimed
with great surprise, " And I can feel, too !
" I made a few more passes,
and then, giving her my hand, I asked her to rise. She did so, and
stood bearing her weight fairly upon both feet. She then took a step
or two, very hesitatingly at first, as if doubting her ability to do it
;
but at last she walked all about the room unassisted, as well as if
nothing had been the matter. Every trace of paralysis had disappeared
and did not return.
August 1st. —Patient walked into the room unassisted, looked
bright, had slept well ; still there was a strangeness in her look, and
her friends reported that, contrary to her usual manner, she was
petulant, fault-finding, and unreasonable. Hypnotised, she went to
sleep easily, and, after allowing her a short sleep, I made two or three
rapid passes upward across her forehead to arouse her. She awoke
suddenly and complained of headache, which very soon passed away
and, on being asked how she felt, she replied :
" I wonder how people
feel who have been in a trance. I feel as though I had been in a
Dec, 1894.] JouTiial of Society for Psychical Research.
trance." Then, as if suddenly realising her surroundings, she ex-
claimed :
" How did I come to be in this room, and why am I in this
horrid dress 1" and she went on to say that she should have been in
the room where I found her on the evening of my first visit, and
described the dress she then wore as the one she should have on now.
In short, she had no recollection of anything that had occurred since
the evening of July 13th—the day she was taken sick : she calls that
yesterday and all the intervening time is a blank.
August 2nd.—Patient has slept well and has apparently been clear
in mind.
August 12th.—Patient has not seemed so well—is again strange,
petulant and unreasonable. She reads however, writes and amuses
herself ; has not been altogether right, her friends say, since the 2nd
of the month. Hypnotized, and, after a short sleep, awoke her by
quick passes across her forehead. The whole time since August 1st is
a blank. She calls to-day Friday, July 1.5th. She was taken sick on
Wednesday, July 1-3 th ; the day I awoke her first is Thursday, and
to-day is Friday. It is all right to her that way and in no other.
From this time on there were no further manifestations of the
peculiarities which had characterised her illness, nor any further lapses
in time or consciousness. She was however imder my observation for
several weeks, and I also gave her occasional treatment by hypnotism.
During this later stage of her case, and after all abnormal condi-
tions had seemingly disappeared, I was convinced that my patient
was still what might properly be called a " Sensitive." During her
iUness I had observed decided indications of this heightened or supra-
normal power of perception. On my first attempt to hypnotize her,
on making the passes as usual four or six inches from the surface of
the body, she screamed with pain as though a powerful battery had
been applied, and it was only at a distance of four or five feet that the
passes were at all comfortable or soothing. I also found that pointing
my fingers at her from a distance—as across the room—produced con-
vulsive muscular action. Thinking at first it was only " expectation
"
which induced this action, I tried the experiment when she was not
aware of my presence—when her back was turned to me—and even
through a closed door, with the same result.
I now instituted the following experiments :
—
First.—Taking an old-fashioned copper cent, I wrapped it neatlj
in a bit of ordinary tissue paper ; this was folded in another covering
of the same material, and so on until it had acquired six entire cover-
ings of tissue paper, and was a little, soft, oval, innocent-looking
package, quite convenient for my purpose. This I took with me, held
364 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Pec, 1894.
closely in the palm of my hand, as I entered the room where my
patient was lying on a lounge. I took a chair as I passed in, and,
placing it beside the lounge, I sat leisurely down and took her right
hand in mine, in such a manner that the little package was between
our palms and in close contact with both. I remarked upon the
weather and commenced the routine duty of feeling her pulse with my
left hand. A minute or two was passed ;in banter and conversation
intended by me to thoroughly engage her attention, when all at once
she commenced to wipe her mouth with her handkerchief, and spit and
sputter with her tongnie and lips, as if to get rid of some offensive
taste. She then looked up suspiciously at me and said, " I wonder
what you are doing with me now" ; then suddenly pulling her hand
away from mine, she exclaimed :
" I know what it is ;
you have put a
nasty piece of copper in my hand."
Second.—I took two clean, new bottles, exactly alike, with new
corks, and put a small dot of ink in one of the corks so as to be able
to distinguish it. I then filled the bottle with the unmarked cork
with plain water from the fawcet in my office. Immediately after I
drew a goblet of water from the same fawcet, and, placing it on my
desk, I brought all my fingers together in a clump, and then held them
for a minute or two over the goblet as near as possible to the water but
without the slightest contact. " This it was and nothing more " with
which I filled the second bottle, having the dot in the cork.
I then wrapped the bottles separately in thick white paper, put them
in a satchel, and took them with me on my visit to my patient.
During the visit I produced the bottles, taking care that my patient did
not see them—much less distinguish the corks. I poured out a small
quantity of the plain water and desired her to taste it, and then asked
her what she supposed it to be. She repUed that she could taste
nothing but simple water. I then took a portion of the water from the
marked bottle and desired her to swallow it ; and on asking her the
same question, she replied that that also was water, but that it was
peculiar. It was not exactly like aerated water, but that conveyed the
best idea she was able to give of how it differed from ordinary
water. It had a sparkle which she felt on her tongue and all the way
down as it passed into her stomach. No matter how or in what order
the two waters were given, she never failed to distinguish which it
was, and she always described the difference in the same way. Five
years later I accidentally met this lady in the cars with her husband
and two children. She lived far out of town : the meeting was only
for a moment, and there was no opportunity of learning her history
since I last saw her, nor anything of her psychical condition.
Dec, 1894.] Journal of Society for FsycMccd Research. 365
A friend of hers recently told me that, after Miss M.'s recovery
and return to her school duties, on one occasion she was suddenly
startled and passed into a condition similar to but less violent than
the one just described as the commencement of her illness ;
on that
occasion another teacher, a friend of hers, dipped a handkerchief in
plain cold water and applied it to her lips. She quickly became calm,
but at once seized the handkerchief and sucked the water from it
greedily, declaring that it "sparkled " in her mouth like the water Dr.
Mason used to give her.
OASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
S. 14. From Mr. T. Barkworth.
January 25th, 1893.
The following statements referring to physical phenomena of an
unusually decided character are made by the "medium" herself, and
by a friend of hers who is also a relative of my own. The " medium "
is a young lady utterly unversed in psychical research generally, and in
spiritism in particular. She struck me as possessing unaffected sim-
plicity and candour. The other witness has been known to me from
childhood, and I can vouch for her veracity in all respects.
It will be noticed that there is a discrepancy in dates between the
two statements, fortunately of no importance, but as to which neither
witness will give way. It only serves to shew the importance of
recording events of this kind on the spot. Miss Masterman, how-
ever, writes :— " I might have given a few other occurrences . . .
but I suppose it is best only to state those which I could swear to."
One of the most singular circumstances of the case is the little impor-
tance both ladies seem to have attached to the phenomena themselves,
so much so that there is no certainty, from their recollection, of dates
or of the identity of other witnesses present on particular occasions.
This is most unfortunate in the case of the table moving without
contact. A clergyman was thought to have been present, but he
writes to me, "I heard of the occurrence to which you refer, but this
particular manifestation did not take place in my presence. . .
.
That the phenomenon occurred, however, I cannot doubt, several per-
sons being present at the time, and bearing witness to the fact."
I may still, therefore, at a future time, obtain further confirmation
of this extraordinary event.
The apparition described will be considered by most persons as
purely subjective, in view of the percipient's condition at the time,
366 '
Journal of Society for Psychical Research, [mc^^m^.
and, if so, it is an interesting example of a subjective hallucination
being transferred, or shared by two people.
T.B.
Statement of Miss Paetoiv, 24, Queen Anne's Grove, Bedford Park, taken
down from her verbal answers to my questions on December 7th, 1892, and
subsequently revised and signed by her.
The phenomena to be described first appeared about May, 1890. I had
not previously given attention to the subject, nor read anything about it,
and had never been to any seances.
The first attempt was made when some friends, including L.M., came
over for the day. We began by table turning, and after the other friends
left, L. M. and I went on alone, the influence growing stronger. I tried for
raps in answer to questions and got them from the table or on the floor near
by. These questions were mostly concerned with the future. Not bemg
acquainted with any alphabetical or other code, the questions were limited
to such as admitted of being answered by a simple "Yes," or "No." No
person was named as communicating agent. Raps were heard freely at
night when I was alone in bed. As to movements of obiects, beside those
which were produced when my hands were on the table, it moved on two or
three occasions without contact at all ; and once, with contact, it tilted so
violently as to throw L. M. off when she was sitting on it. This was a four-
legged table. On another occasion a dining-room table stood on end, and
once a small table climbed on to a bed with only my hands on it. At other
times the chair I was sitting on moved, carrying me with it. There was no
feeling of trance except on one occasion, and then just as I was sinking into
it, I was recalled by a scream from my friend who saw what was about to
happen. There was no exercise of the will on my part in producing the
different phenomena. I have never been hypnotised nor have I ever been
hysterical. The experiments were continued for about five months, but had
to be discontinued in consequence of the suffering to health which they
caused, being followed by severe headache and nervous prostration. They
have not since been resumed.
I have tried j)lanchette which writes readily for me, but even this pro-
duces headache. I have once tried the crystal, but without result.
I suffered considerable alarm at the time these occurrences were in
progress, particularly when in bed at night, and this feeling was increased by
the°raps which came at that time. Thus my rest was broken and my health
suffered in consequence.
The power increased with use, and since practice has been given up it
seems to have ceased.
With regard to further psychical experiences occurring to her. Miss
Paetow adds :
—
On one occasion, when seated at the piano, my sister being in the room,
a well-defined hallucination of a man (unrecognised) entered, walked out
and ran rapidly upstairs. His steps were heard before he became visible and
after ceasing to be so. This hallucination was, I believe, shared by my sister,
Dec, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
more or less. It could not have been a real man, as it entered through the
solid waU. I was overwrought at the time, and in an excitable and nervous
condition in consequence of the other experiences, but was not otherwise
out of health.
The above statements, which I have carefully read over, contain the
information verbally given by me to Mr. Barkworth and are all quite
correct. ^ ^
Mabel E. Paetow.
Miss Masterman writes :
—
December Uth, 1892.
The first time I saw Miss Paetow turn a table was in the autumn of
1890 about October. I and a few friends were at her house one afternoon,
and the subject of table turning having been started, five of us .stood
round a small three-legged table in the usual manner, placing our hands
upon it-none of us knowing at the time that she possessed any power of
the kind On our asking the table which of us it preferred, it tilted
always in her direction ; we therefore left her alone with it. With only one
finger placed lightly upon it, it moved quickly into the next room, which
was a bedroom, and at her request climbed on to the bed, laid down and
<rot up again, failing however to reach the ground from the bed. It also
tried to climb up her, standing on her foot with one leg.
We tried these experiments over and over again at different times on
into the spring of the next year, and her power increased very much. I
have seen her move a moderately heavy table about 36 in. square with one
fin-er upon it, letting it fall on to the ground, and then with her finger
placed lic^htly in the centre, and two of us pulling her behind to prevent
her using°any force, it would leap up again with a bound.
On one occasion five or six of us sat with her round a dmmg table with
our hands on it. It moved so violently backwards and forwards that it
tore a hole about five or six inches long in the carpet.
, -.^ .
I have also seen a large heavy round table move at her request without
any contaet whatever. About four of us have sat round at some distance
off and she has asked the table to move towards the one it likes best. It
has at once walked quickly up to her, almost pushing her backwards
I have also sat on the same table presshig on it with all my might, and,
with her one hand upon it, it has leaped upwards and thrown me violently
on to the ground. We have asked questions from time to time and received
answers, both by taps with one of the legs, and also by knocks in the centre
of the table. Her famUy had no intention then of leaving their house.
She asked the table if they were going to leave, the answer was Yes.
" In a very short time V " Yes." In a few weeks, for reasons which they
could not then have known, they found it advisable to leave their house.
Most of the questions, however, were foolish, and we never got beyond the
answers
" Yes " "No " or " Don't know." The chair Miss Paetow has sat
in has also moved and slipped gradually from under her, and my own has
sometimes done the same when sitting with her.
Louisa Masterman.
368 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1894.
L. 977. A^l Pn From Prince Victor Duleep Singh.
In the following case the experience of the percipient seems to
have been on the line between illusion and hallucination.
Highclere Castle, Newbury, November 8th, 1894.
On Saturday, October, 1893, I was in Berlin with Lord Carnarvon. We
went to a theatre together and returned before midnight. I went to bed,
leaving, as I always do, a bright light in the room (electric light). As I lay in
bed I found myself looking at an oleograph which hung on the wall opposite
my bed. I saw distinctly the face of my father, the Maharajah Duleep
Singh, looking at me, as it were out of this picture ; not like a portrait of
him, but his real head. The head about filled the picture frame. I continued
looking and still saw my father looking at me with an intent expression.
Though not in the least alarmed, I was so puzzled that I got out of bed to see
what the picture really was. It was an oleograph common-place picture of a
girl holding a rose and leaning out of a balcony, an arch forming a back-
ground. The girl's face was quite small, whereas my father's head was the
size of life and filled the frame.
I was in no special anxiety about my father at the time, and had for some
years known him to be seriously out of health ; but there had been no news
to alarm me about him.
Next morning (Sunday) I told the incident to Lord Carnarvon.
That evening (Sunday) late on returning home. Lord Carnarvon brought
two telegrams into my room and handed them to me. I said at once, " My
father is dead." That was the fact. He had had an apoplectic seizure on the
Saturday evening at about nine o'clock, from which he never recovered, but
continued unconscious and died on the Sunday, early in the afternoon. My
father had often said to me that if I was not with him when he died he would
try and come to me.
I am not subject to hallucinations, and have only once had any similar
experience, when, as a schoolboy, I fancied I saw the figure of a dead school-
boy who had died in the room which I slept in with my brother ; but I attach
no importance to this.
Victor Duleep Singh.
Lord Carnarvon writes :
—
I can confirm Prince V. Duleep Singh's account. I heard the incident
from him on the Sunday morning. The same evening, at about 12 p.m., he
received a telegram notifying him of his father's sudden illness and death.
We had no knowledge of his father's illness. He has never told me of any
similar previous occurrence.
Carnarvon.
We have ascertained that the Maharajah Duleep Singh died on
Sunday, October 22nd, 1893.
L. 978. Ad Pe Vision.
Received through Miss E. Sturge, of Chilliswood, Tyndall's Park,,
Bristol. The percipient, whom we will call Miss G., gave her real
name in confidence. She writes :
—
Dec, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 369
Ajml 1st, 1891.
I saw my brother, who was ill at the time, lying in his berth, dressed in
his clothes. The ship was moving slowly along—it was a bright moonlight
night and everything was exceedingly quiet and peaceful. At first he appeared
asleep, but at length opened his eyes, gave me a bright smile and one long
look and then closed them again. Apparently I saw him just a few hours
before he died. As far as I can remember, it was after midnight on the 29th
of December, 1886. I was in bed, and very tired, after the exertions of a
children's Christmas party. Of course I was anxious about my brother, but
from that time all anxiety seemed to cease. When anyone congratulated
me upon the safe arrival of the vessel, it seemed to make no cheerful impres-
sion, and I ceased from that time writing the weekly letters which I had
been in the habit of sending, although we did not hear of his death until
February 7th, 1887. I was 22 years old at the time. I had not seen my
brother since the 22nd of September, 1886, the date when the vessel left
the docks.
Miss Sturge adds :
—
Miss G.'s brother had not been in good health, and had travelled a good
deal on account of it, but the family were not especially anxious about him
at the time of his death. He was going alone to Australia and died very
shortly before arrival, and it was almost by accident that the family heard
of his death.
Miss Sturo-e writes later :
—
° Juhj 2nh, 1891.
I find from a letter I have received from [Miss G.] that she does not
quite know whether she was asleep or awake at the time of her vision, but
says she is certain she was awake immediately after. She sends me the
printed invitation to the children's party on the 28th December, 1886, and
she sends also a copy of the letter from the wife of the captain of the ship
on which her brother was at the time of his death, by which I see that he
died at 10 p.m. on the 29th December, the dream or vision thus preceding
the death. Miss G. repeats that she was so certain that her brother was
dead that she refused to write to him or send him anything. She made no
written memorandum at the time, but spoke of it to Mr. and Mrs. M. with
whom she was then and is now living [as their governess].
She seems to have been in the habit of dreaming of her brother, as she
was very fond of him.
Mr. Myers called on Miss G., on December 18th, 1891, and
writes :
—
I saw Miss G. yesterday. She thinks that her experience ought to be
classed as a dream, although it was more vivid than any other dream she
remembers, and woke her up so thoroughly that she got up and did not
sleep again for some hours.
This dream alone of all that she has had showed her brother ill and
altered, as he in fact was altered before death.
She did not tell Mr. and Mrs. M. until the news had arrived. She
370 Journal of Society for Psychical Research- [Dec, 1894.
intentionally kept the invitation card (which I saw), as a naemento of
the date, not wishing to put on paper what she regarded as so private a
matter.
The best proof of the importance of this dream in her eyes is that she
never once wrote to her brother again, although she was devotedly attached to
him, and used to write by every, or almost every, mail. Had he been alive,
he would have missed her letters with surprise and pain. I have seen the
captain's wife's letter. The brother died at Port Adelaide between 7 and
10 p.m. on the 29th, which would be in England from 9.40 to 12.40 a.m.
on the 29th. The vision therefore preceded the death by less than
12 hours.
The brother had in fact been mainly lying dressed in his berth towards
the last, not being strong enough to be much on deck.
F. W. H. Myers.
Miss G. writes to Mr. Myers on December 23rd, 1891 :
—
Deae Sir, —Enclosed with this you will find the written statement of
Mr. M. , which you desired me to send you. 1 fear you will not find it very
satisfactory—as, of course, to be really valuable to you, I ought to have
mentioned my dream before the news of my brother's death reached
England. As it is, it was quite by accident that Mr. M. found out about it.
We were on the station, and he was seeing me off on my way home, and was
expressing sympathy with me and saying how sorry he was, etc., when I
remarked " it was stupid of me to feel it so much, as I'd known for a long
time how it would be." Then he pressed me to tell him how I knew, and
I told him the facts with which you are already acquainted, and he told
Mrs. M. Before giving my account to Miss Sturge, I got both Mr. and
Mrs. M. to read it through, not liking to trust entirely to my own memory,
and they both thought it correct.
Mr. M. corroborates as follows : —
December 21st, 1891.
With reference to the particulars which have been given by Miss G.
respecting the dream she had on the night of her brother's departure from
this life, I perfectly recollect her telling me when the news arrived that she
had known for a long time that he had gone. She then described minutely
to me the surroundings of the room, &c., on the ship where he died, and
named other particulars which the written accounts I subsequently read
from the wife of the captain of the vessel markedly confirmed.
I should perhaps say Miss G. is, and always has been, very averse to
conversing on the subject, and I have always abstained from pressing her to
do so, and from troubling her by anything like cross questionss on the
subject. Miss G. was deeply attached to her brother, and had seen him off
on his leaving England.
G. 246.
From a gentleman who does not wish his name to appear. The
account was contained in a letter from the percipient to a friend of
his, who is well known to the Editor.
Dec, 1894.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
June 26th, 1894.
You ask me to narrate my "ghost story 1
" I have no objection to do so ;
but I must premise two things :
1 Tliat I have never taken my "ghost " seriously, but only as the out-
come of natural causes plus a very remarkable " coincidence," as I will
explain later ; and
2 That as more than 30 years have passed since the occurrences referred
to I must claim some privileges on the score of memory as to mmor points of
detail. With that qualification, however, I promise you that I shall allow
myself no margin of license.
Well then '
It was at the end of August, 1859, that, spending a short
holiday in solitary lodgings at Llandudno, I read Bulwer Lytton's sketch-
published I think in " Blackwood"—entitled, if lam not mistaken, Ihe
House and the Brain. This sketch, as is well known, was the basis of the
novelist's more elaborate Strange Story; but to my thinking the longer work
does not produce so powerful an impression as its prelude.
.
, , ^ ^
One morning, while still under the influence of Bulwer s weird sketch, 1
received a letter from an intimate friend, bearing the postmark of a little
town in Ross-shire, telling me that he was stranded and absolutely alone m
a larcre castle which he had taken with its accompanymg moor for the shoot-
in- season ; that his wife and family could not join him for several days;
and that I should be doing a very kind thing if I could come to him without
Havinc. nothincr to detain me in Llandudno, I packed my portmanteau,
and in a tew hours was steaming northwards by Carlisle and Edinburgh for
Inverness A lovely, but after the long railway journey a wearisome, coach-
drive brought me at last to . A porter at the inn shouldered my
luggage, and piloted me to Castle, a short walk from the litt e town
A gmsi-drawbridge over what must once have been a considerable moat
-gave access to the gateway. In due course a servant admitted me, and
showed me into a huge drawing-room, saying that his master had not yet
returned from the moors. My friend soon appeared, and, as it was late, took
me off to my room to prepare for dinner. This room was one of perhaps a
dozen, which opened out of a large corridor above the quadrangular hall below
On leavincr me he pointed to the door exactly opposite on the other side ot
the gallery, adding, with what at the time struck me as a marked emphasis,
" that is the door of my room " ; and I afterwards recalled that he had done
and said exactly the same thing a few minutes before when we were entering
my room. We dined tete-a-tite with much pleasant talk over old times, and
we separated for the night, when I am not sure that there was not a third
indication of my host's room as we said " good night " at the door of mine
Tired with my long journey I was soon plunged into a deep sleep ;
but i
had not been asleep long when I awoke quite suddenly, to hear a loud and
continuous rustling of some kind which seemed to fill the room Unable to
resist a wish to find out the cause, I sprang out of bed to see i my clothes
could have slipped ofl'a chair, or if by chance the curtains could have been
shaken by a breeze which might have entered through an unsuspectedly open
window No ! a dim moonlight showed that there was and had been perfect
372 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1894.
stillness in the room. My curiosity was roused ; I softly opened the door and
stole into the next room, which I knew was empty and where I thought it
not unlikely that an open window might account for the noise which so
puzzled me. Again I was bailed, and returned to my bed—not alas ! to
sleep, but to listen intently. In a few minutes the rustling was repeated and
I heard—as it seemed to me niosfc distinctly —in a slow whisper the words
" Have you found the key ? " This question, however, received no answer ;
nor did any other sound make itself heard, though my strained faculties kept
me awake until day dawned, and weariness once more overpowered me.
In the morning as I dressed I noticed that in the side of an old carved ward-
robe was a lofty door opening into what would be a narrow compartment,
locked but ivitli no key in it, and which I had no doubt unconsciously noted
when undressing the night before.
Naturally I said nothing of my adventure to my host at breakfast, and a
bright and active day on the moors had almost banished it from my memory,
when it was recalled in a most startling way. We were dining on that day
with another sporting tenant in the neighbourhood, with whom, as it chanced,
I had some acquaintance. Judge of myastonishment when, as I was talking with
our host, before dinner was announced, I heard our hostess say to my friend :
" Well, Edward, have you yet seen or rather heard,the Ghost of Castle 1 ''
I noticed that my friend's reply was given in a low voice, so that I could not
catch its purport, and I of course made no sign. We walked homewards,
and as we crossed the little bridge, I could not but think the old turretted
house a fit scene for a ghost story. I wondered whether the night would
bring me fresh revelations ;
nothing more happened, however, and in a few
days I returned southwards, taking care not to leave any unwelcome mystery
for my friend's wife and daughters to brood over.
In the later autumn my friend came to stay with me. I did not delay to
ask him if he had taken Castle for the following season, as I knew had
been his intention. "No," he answered, "through a stupid misunderstanding
on the part of the agent, it has been let over my head." I then
told him my story. He listened with breathless attention ; and when I had
ended, he told me that the house had in fact the reputation of being
"haunted "
; that he had learnt this for the first time as he travelled down
on the coach to take possession ; that the ghost was one to be heard but not
seen ; and that to his horror he had discovered on the morning of my arrival
that the housekeeper, innocent of all knowledge of the story, had prepared
for my use the very room which was alleged to be the " haunted chamber.''
He added that it was then too late to make any change, especially as he
could give no tolerable reason for doing so ; but that he had thought it worth
while to let me know in which room I should find him in case my night's rest
should be disturbed.
I have now told my story of " the ghost of Castle"; but I must in
all honesty give you my reasons for treating it as a case of pure though
very remarkable " coincidence "—so far, that is, as the contribution of my
experience may seem to any lover of the marvellous to add weight to the
tradition of the neighbourhood—no particulars of which, however, have ever
reached me.
Dec, 1894.] Joumctl of Society for Psychical Research. 373
1. I was still under the influence of Bulwer's weird story, The House and
the Brain.
2. I was in a state of exhaustion after a long and fatiguing journey.
3. The admonition of my host, twice repeated, to note the door of his
room.
4. An unconscious notice that, while the other doors of the wardrobe had
been left open for my use, the one door was locked and had no hey in it.
5. Then comes in what I call the remarkable coincidence—the accident,
namely, that the housekeeper had assigned to me the very room which
tradition declared to be haunted ; but this of course adds nothing to the
evidence for the supernatural.
I am confident that people do not attach enough importance to the part
that simple coincidence plays in these stories, and especially in what are
called prophetic dreams. The reason is obvious—that 99 coincidences out
of every 100 are so utterly insignificant that one has no temptation to dwell
on them.
I ought to add, perhaps, that I had no second visitation in the haunted
room ; nor did I hear (as I doubtless should have heard) that any other
occupant of the room during my friend's tenancy was troubled by any
uncanny sight or sound.
The writer adds later :
—
Jidy m.h, 1894.
My recollection is quite clear that the impression I spoke of as to the
unusual emphasis of my host's admonition about the door of his room did
not arise save by way of after-thought ; did not in fact give me at the time
any suggestion whatever that "it meant something."
The name of the house was given us in confidence.
With regard to the next case, when the impression—familiar
to many persons—that certain circumstances are a repetition of what
has previously happened, only occurs during or after the experience, it
may obviously be explained as a mere illusion of memory. But to
the main incident here given this explanation does not apply, since the
impression not only occurred, but was mentioned, before its apparent
werification.
M CI. 91. Impression.
From Miss L. M. Robinson, 24, Trent-road, Brixton Hill.
As a child, when taken to a strange place, I often had the feeling that I
3iad been there before. Sometimes it would come on entering a house for
the first time. Sometimes during the holidays when we used to visit many
strange places, a tree, a church, a turn of the country road, would haunt me
with a strange sense of familiarity.
The first day I went to school we turned into
.an inn yard which the nurse explained was a short cut to the school.
At once the feeling rushed upon me that I had been there before ;
every
374 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. \v>m., 1894.
object was familiar. A curious glass window in the pavement over which I
was walking, I felt I had passed over many times. I thought about this all
the morning and speculated how I could possibly have seen the place before.
When my school days were over my mother took me abroad. We
travelled about for some months and then settled down for the autumn at
Gunten on the Lake of Thoune. Shortly after our arrival I sprained my
ankle, so I could not join many of the excursions.
One lovely warm day I had watched the merry party start for Thoune. I
felt rather comforted that my mother had decided to remain with me. We
had just settled down to our books, when one of the party returned to beg
my mother to allow him to take us on the Lake, as we could have a row
without fatigue and he said he would show us a lovely view, which we could
see after a very short climb. So we went, and had a most enjoyable two
hours on the Lake before we reached a little point of the shore, where we
landed.
We commenced climbing a narrow winding path when suddenly I was
seized with the conviction that I had been there before. So strong was this
feeling that I told my mother, and to convince her I was not mistaken,
said, after we should turn a corner just before the top there was a tree on
the left with a tin notice. When we had nearly reached the top and had
turned a corner we saw the tree to our left with its tin notice. It was
impossible from any point to have caught sight of it before, and this was
the first time in my life I had been near the spot, and until that clay I had
not been so far up the lake towards Interlaken. Yet every tree was
familiar, and every point in the landscape I knew well. T will copy a piece
taken from my rough notes written at the time :
—
" October Idth, 1887.
" Every one went to Thoune, but mother, thinking I might be lonely,
returned, and Mr. T — took us on the lake where we landed and saw
the most lovely view we had ever seen. Half way up I said, '
I have been here
before and near the top you will see a tree with a funny tin notice. ' It was
so. I had never seen or heard of the place before."
Louise M. Robinson.
Mrs. Robinson writes :
—
I have read over what my daughter has written, and can speak positively
to the truth of what she has stated.
Caroline Robinson.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents.]
To the Editor of the .Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
SiR^_The phenomenon of levitation, which is said to have taken place
with Home, is related to have happened in the case of various mediaeval
saints. The possibility of the loss of normal gravity seems also to have
been an accepted belief in the case of mediasval witches. In a book I have
Dec, 1S94.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 375
lately come across. Was wird aus ims nacli dem Tode, by Hans Arnold, (Max
Spohr, Leipzig,) the following assertion is made :—
" At Quadewater, a little town near Utrecht, there existed still at the
beginning of the 18th century a pair of witch-scales, privileged by Charles Y.
At°the time of the witch persecutions, somnambulists . . . were taken
for witches just because they had lost their gravity. Those who were
accused of witchcraft were therefore weighed in the witch-scales, and from
the records we find that the judge had a right to acquit a person of witch-
craft who weighed over 30 pfund."
Have people in abnormal conditions ever been weighed in modern
investigations, and if not, would it not be a good thing to do so, and to see-
if any change of weight were produced ?
An Associate.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Continued from the February Journal.)
Fivrther information improving the evidence in any of these eases
will be gratefully received.
B L 176 Dream —Miss Ive dreams that her little niece falls into the
water while out with her in a boat, and cannot be found Her niece did
fall into the water, either the day before or the day after while feeding
some ducks, but was at once pulled out. Corroboration from friend to
whom dream was told before fact was known. Date of dream 1890.
B'^L*^177^^^Dream.—Mrs. Haltnorth dreams that a daughter of a friend in
China is coming home and looks ill. Friend had heard from her daughter
that day saying she had been ill of typhoid and also tliat she was thinking
of coming home. . . •
j-i -n ;„
B L 178 Impression.—Mrs. M. has distressing impression that D. is
nnusuallv ill or dying. Telegraphs to ask if she may come to see hiin and
~SL ai™. 'Sends up next day and finds he has just died. Date,
July, 1886. Recorded May, 1890. . .
B L 179 Auditory.—Mrs. Tweedale one evening m January, 1«»0,
heard call, Violet, come at once," repeated twice. Next day she received
telegram from her sister at Nice, sent the evening be ore summomng her
to Nice, her mother having been taken ill there. Recorded N ovember, 1892.
BL180. Collective. Apparition of dog. 2nd hand. -Miss M. L.
Rendered relates that a friend of hers and her mother saw a terrier who had
gone out with the former's sister, curled up on the hearthrug The sister
came in half an hour later and told them that the terrier had been nearly
dro^Tiedatthe time they saw him. No date given. Recorded January, 1891.
B L 181. Visual. Through Dr. C. B. Ker—The Rev. -— L on wak-
ing finds the room filled with a brilliant light, and sees the shadow of a
woman on the blind. A friend of his dies the same night Date 188o
Also two cases of his seeing apparitions of persons of whom he was thmkmg
'''blT82 "l;"par?tfon. Through Miss Benson.-Mrs. R ,
when
a chUd of 13 or 14, wakes one morning and sees her great-aunt standing by
her grandmother's bed. The same day they heard of her death during the
night. Undated.
376 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1894.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list (Journal for April, 1894).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
PODMORE (Frank, M.A.), Apparitions and Thought-Transference :
An Examination of the Evidence for Telepathy. London, 1894*
(Another Copy.)
Janet (Prof. Pierre), L'Autoraatisme Psychologique (2nd
Edition) Paris, 1894*
ScHEENCK-NoTZiNG (Dr. Freihorr von), Ueber Suggestion und
Suggestive Zustande Munich, 1893*
Ein Beitrag zur psychischen und suggestiven Behandlung
der Neurasthenic Berlin, 1894*
Der Hypnotismus im Miinchener Krankenhause. Leipzig, 1894*
Gutachten. [Aus die Bedeutung der Hypnotischen Sug-
gestion als Heihnittel. Berlin] 1894*
Suggestion, Suggestivetherapie, Psychische Behandlung.
[Aus der Real-Encyclopiidie der Gesammter Heilkunde.
Vol. III. Berlin.] 1893*
(Another Essay under the same title from Vol. IV. of
the same Encyclopedia) 1894*
Note.—^ few other additions since the list in the April Journal were inchided
in the tupplementary list in Proceedings XXVI.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Buckley (J. M., LL.D.), Faith-Healing, Christian Science and
Kindred Phenomena London, 1892
Denton (Wm. and Elizabeth M. F.), The Soul of Things; or
Psychometric Researches and Discoveries. 3 Vols., 8th
Edition Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A., 1888
" I Awoke !
" Conditions of Life on the Other Side. Commu-
nicated by Automatic Writing London, 1893t
Lang (Andrew), Cock Lane and Common Sense London, 1894*
Mackenzie (Alexander, F.S.A., Scot.), The Prophecies of the
Brahan Seer, Mh Edition Inverness, 1888
1
WiLMOT (Thomas S.), Twenty Photographs of the Risen
Dead London, 1894§
GouPiL (A.), Pour et Centre {Privately Printed) Tours, 1893*
Mysteres des Sciences Occultes. Par un Initie Paris, [1894]
Acevedo (Dr. M. Otero), Los Espiritus Madrid, 1893*
Los Fantasmas Madrid, 1893*
Presented by the Author. J Presented by Mr. G. P. Bidder,
t Presented by one of the Writers. 5 Presented by the Pubhsher.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME VI.
1893-94.
Aksakof, Alex., Case contributed by l^J
Alden, Lyman P., Case contributed by 264
Alexander, Prof. A., Cases contributed by 106, 112, 1.S3, 139
American Society for Psychical Research, General Meeting, .. •• 48
Members List oi, (See Members)
Antesthetics, Phases of consciousness under the influence of, 94, 95, 209, 286, 287
Anglo-French Psychological Society, Formation of 242, 263
Annual Business Meetings 19, 193
Anonymously contributed cases 154,249,294,370,3/4
Armstrong, H., Case contributed by -^^^
Atkinson, Miss F., Case contributed by 2.?0
Australian Society for Psychical Research, Formation of 1j6
B.
145
25
B., Lady, Case contributed l)y
B., Mrs., Case contributed by
Baker, Mrs. C, Case contributed by 166
Balfour, Rt. H<m. A. J., Presidential Address
Barber, Reginald, Case contributed by -"-^
Barcellos, Dr. A., Case contributed by _
11"^
Barkworth, Thomas, Cases contributed by 14o, 365
Criticism of the "Experiences" of Mr. Stamton
Moses 200,232,265
Replies to 215,217,219,222,251,254,255,265,270,272
Barrett, Prof. W.' F., On the Evidence for the Divining Rod Ill
11 Index to Volume VI.
Blavatsky, Madame, Controversy concerning 110, 111, 143, 144
Bourne, Mioses 11. M. and L., Case contributed by .. 129
Bruce, Archdeacon, Case contributed by ... 163,164
Bute, the Marquis of, Case contributed by ... ... . .. ... 52
Buxton, Sir T. Fowell, Case recorded by 9
C.
Cabral, U. J. da Costa, Case contributed by 139
Caithness, Countess of. Formation of an Anglo - French Psychological
Society by 242, 263
Campbell, Miss C. M. ,
Thought-transference Experiments .. , .. ... 4
Charms, Experiments as to the Efficacy of ... 152
Chicago, Congress of Psychical Science at ... ... .. ... ... 126
Clairvoyance, Experiments in Apparent 296, 363
Clarke, Miss M. , Case contributed by ... 183
Clarke, Rev. Pt.F. (S.J.), On the Lourdes " Miracles" ... ... 2, 96, 97
Cleary, Mi,ss K. M., Case contributed by 117, 118
Committees, Appointments of 20, 126, 156, 187, 195
Cope, Rev. C. H., Cases contributed by 116, 179
Correspondence, (Miscellaneous) 31, 33, 36, 86, 87, 90, 120, 122, 152, 154,
155,200,214,215,217,219,222,223,232,251, 254,
255, 265, 270, 272, 286, 287, 302, 304, 374
Council Elections and Meetings, 19, 20, 50, 78, 94, 110, 126, 142, 174, 194,
226, 242, 257, 273, 290, 306
Cram, W. A., Account of a Hypnotic Subject 158, 159
Craufurd, J. W. , Case contributed by 106
Crookes, W., Differences in " Physical Phenomena " with Eusapia
Paladino and D. D. Home 341
Crystal Vision, Phenomena of 3, 21, 22, 246, 247
D.
Dariex, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 171
Davey, S. J., Discussion of his " Slate-wrintij? 33, 36, 86, 87
Delbtcuf, Prof., Hypnotic Experiments of 82
Despard, Miss li. C, Thought-transference Experiments 4
Divining Rod, Experiments with Ill
Doveton, F. B. , On the Objectivity of Apparitions 223
Dufferin, the Marchioness, Case recorded by 85
E. ,
"
Emmett. Captain, Case contributed by 179
Index to Volume VI. iii
Faith" and " Mind " Healing, and Kindred Phenomena, 1—3, 96—98,
152, 154, 155
G.
G. ,
Miss, Case contributed by 368
Garner, E. T. , Case contributed by . .
82
Glardon, Eev. Aiig., Cases contributed by 11,98,151
Grange, Miss C. H., Case contributed by 185
Green, C. T., (M.R.C.S.), Subliminal Consciousness and Anesthetics ... 208
Gurney, Edmund, Memorial Library 16, 48, 107, 188, 224, 237, 376
H.
Haggard, J. B., Case contributed by 210
Hall, Kev. F., Case contributed by 13
Hall, H. W., Case contributed by 167, 168
Harpur, Rev. Geo., On Mr. S. J. Daveys " Slate-writing " 87
Harrison, Rev. H. R., Case contributed by 137
Hayes, J. W., On "Spirit " Pliotography 31
Healey, Ira, Caseof 157,161
Hertz, Prof. Heinrich, Obituary Notice 190, 194, 197
Hodgson, R., Case contributed by,
On Mr. S. J. Davey's " Slate-writing " ... 33, 36, 86, 87
Home, D. D., Comparison of, with Eusapia Paladino ^.341
,, Note on the Character of 176, 177
Hopps, E. Page, On the " Experiences " of Mr. Stainton Moses 222
Home, Miss E. M., Case contributed by ^27
Hovrin, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 296
Hulin, Professor G., Case contributed by 290
Hvpnotism, Committee for the Investigation of Hypnotic Phenomena,
^^ 156,187,199,231,247
Curative Effects of 90, 97, 98, 154, 200, 361
(Miscellaneous) 82, DO, 97, 98, 154, 155, 156, 158—162, 171, 199,
200, 231, 247-249, 361
Pulse altered by Hypnotic Suggestion 248
,,
Supernormal Perception, Case of 361
J.
Jenkins, Miss S., Case contributed by ...
Jones, Sir Lawrence, Cases contributed l>y
... 28
101, 104
Index to Voluive VI.
K.
Kennedy, Miss Louisa, Note on the Character of D. D. Home 177
Kitching, Miss E. H., Case contributed by 105
KrafFt-Ebing, Prof ,
Hypnotic Experiments of 82
L.
L., J., Hypnotism as a Therapeutic Agency 90
Lang, Andrew, Cock Lane and Common Sense 192, 302
,, On the " Experiences " of Mr. Stainton Moses 219
Leaf, Walter, Controversy as to Madame Blavatsky 110, 143
Lewis, Rev. W. M., Case contributed by 103
Literary Committee, Evidence collected by.
,, Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 14, 31, 75, 91, 108,
124, 140, 171, 207, 375
"G" Cases 12, 22, 25, 28, 52, 83, 84, 85, 105, 133,
135, 137, 145, 146, 166, 179, 230, 370
•'
L" Cases 4, 9, 11, 27, 29, 74, 98, 101, 103, 104,
106, 129, 131, 139, 163, 165, 167, 168, 169, 181,
183, 184, 185, 187, 210, 212, 249, 280, 282, 284, 368
"M" Cases 112
" M CI" Cases 264, 29.3, 294, 373
"P" Cases 116, 117, 150, 290
"S" Cases 365
Lodge,Prof.01iver J.,Onthe "Experiences" of Mr. Stainton Moses 215,251,270
,, Pieport on Unusual Physical Phenomena occurring
in the presence of Eusapia Paladino 306
,, Discussion of—and appendices to Report 336,346,357
,,
Summary of Phenomena 310—313,327,334
Lourdes, The Alleged Miracles at 1, 2, 96, 97
Lucier, Mrs. V. A. , On Apparent Duality of Consciousness 286
Lyttelton, Lady, Case contributed by - ••• 165
M.
M., Miss, A case of Hysteria with Supernormal Perception 361
Maitland, Edward, On Sensations experienced under Anaesthetics ... 95
Manoukhine, Serge, Case contributed by 187
Mason, R. Csgood, M.D., Case of Hysteria accompanied by Supernormal
Perception ... ^^1
McCaskill, Miss A., Case contributed by 135
McCulloch, T. F. Case contributed by 168
McDougall, A., Case contributed by 74
Mead, G. R. S., Defence of Madame Blavatsky 143
Meetings of the Society, Annual Business 19, 193
General 1, 21, 51, 78, 94, 110, 142, 175, 190, 227,
242, 258, 274, 306
Index to Volume VI. V
Members, Associates, and Hon. Members, Lists of 17, 49, 50, 77, 93, 109,
125, 126, 141, 173, 174, 189, 190,
225, 226, 241, 257, 273, 289, 305
,, ,, American Branch 18, 49, 50,
77, 93, 109, 126, 141, 174, 190,
226, 242, 257, 273, 289, 305
Milne, J. Bramwell, On Alleged Miraculous Cures .. 97
Moses, W. Stainton, Controversy concerning the " Experiences " of 144,
175, 200, 215, 217, 219, 222, 228, 232, 251, 254, 255,
261, 265, 270, 272, 274-280
Multiplex Personality (See Subliminal Consciousness)
Munro, L.S.M., Case contributed by ll^o
Myers, Dr. A. T., Bequest to the Society for Psychical Research 258
Obituary Notice 195
Myers, F. W. H., Chicago Congress 126
" Faith " and " Mind " Healing 96
,, International Psychological Society 242, 263
Motor Messages 21, 51, 144, 228, 261, 278, 279
Mr. Stainton Moses' " Experiences " 144, 228, 261, 278, 279
-
,, Psychology of Hysteria 78, 12-.,
„ Report on Phenomena occurring in the presence of
Eusapia Paladino -^-^^
Retrocognition
'^^^
N.
Netherton, J. S., Case contributed by •
Noel, Hon. Roden, Obituary Notice
'^^'^
P.
P., Mademoiselle, Experiments in Apparent Clairvoyance with 296
Paetow, Miss, Case contributed by ^^o
Pagenstecher, G., Case contributed by 9
Paladino, Eusapia, Case of
Phenomena occurring in the presence of 306, 346, 357
Palgrave, R. Inglis, Case contributed by 10, 11
Pederson, Rev. Soren, Case contributed by _^29
Petrovo-Solovovo, M., Experiments in Apparent Clairvoyance 296
Spurious " Spirit " Raps ' 120
Phillips, R. C, Experiments as to the Efficacy of Charms ... ...
\
^^'^
Physical Phenomena occurring in the presence of Eusapia Paladino 306—360
Piper, Mrs., Experiments with ^'^^
Podmore, Frank, On Milan Experiments with Eusapia Paladino /9
„ Recent Thought-transference Experiments 227
,,
Telepathic Dreams
Presidential Address by the Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour
o^o
Psychological Society, Formation of an International ... ... 24'2, ^63
VI Index to Volume VI.
QuiNCY, J. P. , Case contributed by 28
R.
Ramsay, Prof. W., On the " Experiences" of Mr. Stainton Moses 254, 272
,, Exjoeriments with Anfesthetics 94
Reynolds, E. ,
Hypnotic Suggestion 155
Ricketts, Mrs. , Case recorded by 52
Robertson, Miss N. , Cases contributed by 293, 294
Robinson, Miss L. M., Cases contributed by ... 166, 373
Rodrigues, Dr. , Mrs. and E. , Case contributed by ] 33
Roux, M. J. C, Experiments in Thought-transference and Clairvoyance 171
S,.
Scott, Miss M. W., Case contributed by 146
Scott, Mrs. , Case contributed by 280
Shield, Mrs., Case contributed by 131
Sidgwick, Mrs., Phenomena occurring in the presence of Eusapia Paladino 339
Sidgwick, Prof., On Disinterested Deception 274
,, Phenomena occurring in the presence of Eusapia Paladino 345
Simons, C. E. G. ,
Apparent Duality of Consciousness ... 287
Singh, Prince Victor Duleep, Case contributed by ... 368
Slosson, Prof. , A case of Alternating Personality ... 162
Smith, R. Pearsall, On Alleged Miraculous Cures 2
Solovioff, V. S. ,
Controversy as to Madame Blavatsky ... .. ... 110
Speer, Charlton T., On the " Experiences" of Mr. Stainton Moses 175, 255
Spooner, Miss A. , Case contributed by 282
Sturge, Miss E. , Case contributed by . . 368
Subliminal Consciousness, The 21, 51, 79, 81, 82, 95, 96, 122, 157, 162,
209, 244, 245, 286, 287
of the Lapse of Time 79,81,82
Supernormal Perception, A case of 361
T.
T., Miss A., Case contributed by 184
Thompson, Mrs., Case contributed by 183
Thought-transference, Experimental 4, 7, 98, 112, 175, 227, 296
Tolosa-Latour, Dr., Experiments in Hypnotism at a distance 171
V.
Van Deusen, R. T., Case contributed by 284
Index to Volume VI. vii
W.
W\LKER, Mrs., Case contributed by •
Wallace, A. R , On Mr. S. J. Davey's
'
'
Slate-wnting
Reply to, by Mr. R. Hodgson
Westlake', E., On the " Experiences" of Mr. Stainton Moses
White, Miss Ina, Case contributed by
Whiting, Miss L., Case contributed by
Williams, Rev. G. , Case contributed by . .
.
Williams, Miss M. H., Case contributed by ...
Williams, Mrs. T. A., Case contributed by ...
^
Wyld, Geo., MD., On Mr. S. J. Davey's " Slate- wntmg
212
33
36
217
27
249
83
181
293
86
X.
X Miss, Experiments in Crystal Vision
Sources of Supernormal Experiences.
3, 4, 246, 247
... 258
Y.
Yearsley, p. Macleod, Case contributed by
Young, G. A., Case contributed by
Young, Miss I., Case contributed by
Z.
Z., Mr., a Case of " Disinterested Deception"
274-276, 304
