{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__spurzheim___phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
,.
PHRENOLOGY,
OR THE
DOCTRINE OF THE MENTAL PHENOMENA.
BY J. G. SPURZHEIM, .1\I. D.
OF THE UNIVERSITIES OF VIENNA AND PARIS, AND LICENTIATE
OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON.
IN T\VO VOLUl\:lES.
VOL. I.
PHYSIOLOGICAL PART.
WITH PLATES
THIRD AMERICAN EDITION,
OREATLY IMPROVED BY THE AUTHoR, FROM THE THIRD LONDON EDITION
.·.
\ .:l
,,I
' ·~..:...
BOSTON:
MARSH, CAPF.N AND LYON.
1834.
Pittsh
--~,,.._,--~~ /
Entered, according to Act of CongreP.r.1 ln the year 1832, by MARSH, CAPEN
AND LYoN; in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
II'!'EHEOTYPED BY LYMAN THURS1'0!'i .lND CO.
BOSTO!'l.
../'
tb' J.7 1.3
?o·
12 •t 12
71 i i /!
:>,
! J
!(!
.j f
.;
2
POWERS AND ORGANS OF THE MIND.
MARKED ON THE FRONTISPIECE.
AFFECTIVE.
I.-PROPENSITIES.
Desire to live.
"' Alimentiveness.
No. 1. Destructiveness.
2. Amativeness.
3. Philoprogenitiveness.
4. Adhesiveness.
5. Inhabitiveness.
;6. Combativeness.
7. Secretiveness.
8. Acquisitiveness.
9. Constructiveness.
11.-SENTI!\IENTS.
10. Cautiousness.
11. Approbativeness.
12. Self-esteem.
13. Benevolence.
14. Reverence.
15. Firmness.
16. Conscientiousl!ess.
17. Hope.
18. Marvellousness.
19. Ideality.
20. Mirthfulness.
21. Imitation.
INTELLECTUAL.
I.-PERCEPTIVE.
No. 22. Individuality.
23. Configuration.
24. Size.
25. Weight and Resistance.
26. Coloring.
27. Locality.
28. Or~er.
29. Calculation.
30. Eventuality.
31. Time.
32. Tune.
33. Language.
H.-REFLECTIVE.
34. Comparison.
35. Causality.
,.:
PREFACE.
THE first publication presented to the English public under the
title The Physiognomical System, contained several summary views of
different branches of anthropology, which can be appreciated only after
having been examined with great attention in all their details. Several
chapters required more developement, but the volwne was already too
large. I, therefore, after the second edition was sold, deemed it
advisable to publish several chapters as separate works, and to give
another arrangement to my English publications. In one volume, I
gave an abstract of the anatomy of the brain,-in another, I treated of
the deranged manifestations of the mind ;-in a third, of the elementary
prmciples of education, and I now publish two volumes on phren-
ology. In the first, I examine the physiological, and in the second,
the philosophical part of phrenology. Both these kinds of inquiries are
inseparable from each other in the study of mental phenomena. "\Ve
must first possess positive observations before we are allowed to reason,
but being acquainted with a sufficient number of facts, we may draw
from them philosophical conclusions.
I rejoice in thinking that the constant and malignant exertions of
the Reviewers have been frustrated, and that I am now able to publish
the fourth edition of Phrenology, certainly not on account of my works
having been praised and recommended by the great oracles of litera-
ture and science, but only on account of the intrinsic power of the object
explained therein. Let me look for nothing but truth, and it will and
must prevail.
CONTENTS.
Page
Preface • 5
PHRENOLOGY.
Historical notice and general
view • 9
SECTION I.
Sensibility 23
It resides in the brain • 23
Objections 24
SECTION II.
The manifestations of the mind
depend on the whole body,
and the feelings on the vis-
cera 28
Temperaments 30
Viscera 32
SECTION III.
The brain is the organ of the
mind 35
Diseases and wounds
brain
Hydrocephalus
Ossified brains
Metaphysicians
of the
Absolute size ofthe brain
Proportionate size of the brain
38
44
52
56
57
to the body • 59
Facial angle of Camper 62
Cerebral parts compared with
one another 65
s~c'l'ION IV.
Page
The brain is an aggregation of
organs
Objections •
SECTION v.
l\Ieans of determining the func-
67
75
tions of the cerebral parts 85
AnMomy 85
l\1utilations . 90
Sir Everard Home's method 91
Dr. Gall's proceeding 93
SECTION VI.
Craniology. 106
Cause of the form and size of
the head 106
Objections 110
Possibility of distinguishing the
size of the brain 117
Difficulty of distinguishing the
size of certain parts of the
brain 119
Impossibility of distinguishing
the size of the brain 122
SECTION VII.
Division of the faculties of the
mind
SECTION VIII.
ORDER I.-FEELINGS
t Vitativeness
124
136
136
viii CONTENTS.
Page Page
'~~< Alimentiveness 137 Generalities 248
Organ of Destructiveness • 139 Functions erroneously attrib-
Amativeness 147 uted to the external senses 275
Philoprogenitiveness 155 Sphere of activity of the exter-
Adhesiveness 161 nal senses 288
lnhabitiveness 164 Feeling 2£)0
Combativeness 185 Taste . 2£)1
Secretiveness 188 Smell 294
---- Acquisitiveness 190 Hearing_ 296
Constructiveness ]£)7 Sight 298
Cautiousness 199 Perceptive faculties 304
Approbativeness. 205 Organ of Individuality 308
Self-esteem 208 Configuration 310
Benevolence 212 ----Size 312
---- Reverence . 219 ---- 'Veight 312
Firmness 222 Coloring 314
Conscientiousness 224 Locality 316
Hope . 233 Order. 320
---- l\Iarvellousness 23.5 ---- Calculation • 321
Ideality 237 Eventuality 322
l\Iirthfulness 239 Time 324
Imitation 242 Tune 324
Language 327
SECTION IX. ---- Comparison 334
ORDER H.-INTELLECTUAL Causality 337
FACULTIES 246 CONCLUSION 341
External senses 248
PHRENOLOGY;
OR THE
DOCTRINE OF THE l\IENTAL PHENOMENA.
HiSTORICAL NOTICE AND GENERAL VIEW OP THE SUBJECT.
IT is sufficiently known that Gall is the first author of this
new doctrine. .Many details concerning its history, origin, and pro-
gress, may be found in the preface of the large work on the Anat-
omie et Physiologie du System Nerveux en General et du Cerveau
en Particulier, 'Paris, 1810; in the appendix of my Essai Philoso-
phique sur la Nature .Morale et Intellectuelle de l'Homme ; in the
preface of my work on the Anatumy of the Brain ; in the Pre1imin-
ary Dissertatio11 in the first volume of the Transactions of the
Phrenological Society of Edinburgh ; in the System of Phrenology,
by George Combe ; and in the article on Phrenology in the third
number of the Foreign Quarterly Review.
Dr. Gall, endowed with great power of observation, viz :
with large individuality and eventuality, from an early age was
struck with the fact, that each of his brothers and sisters, compan-
ions and schoolfellows, possessed some peculiarity of disposition.
The scholars who first excited his attention, were those who learned
by heart with great facility, and who frequently gained from him
2
10 PHRENOLOGY.
by repetitions, tl1e places which he had obtained by the merit of his
c.omp~sitiOn. He observed that his schoolfellows so gifted, pos-
sessed prominent eyes. He found this sign confirmed at differ-
ent places where he studied, in all who excelled in getting easily
by heart, and in giving correct recitations. He was always fond
of the study of man, of the affections and passions, read various
books on those subjects, and paid particular attention to works on
physiognomy. He soon conceived, that if memory for words was
indicated by an external sign, the same might be the case with the
other powers of the mind. He first looked for such signs in the
general form of the head, but by degrees he found it necessarv to
compare individual parts with particular talents and character. But
it is to be understood, that in making these observations, he never
thought the skull was the cause of the different dispositions of the
:tnind ; he referred the organic influence, wHatever it was, to the
brain.
For many years he endeavored to discover external signs in the
head, corresponding to the general powers spoken of by metaphysi-
cians, such as perception, conception, memory, imagination, and
judgment ; but not being able to advance, and finding contradic-
tions and exceptions without end, he compared great talents for
music, mechanical arts, drawing, painting, dramatic acting, poetry,
philology, mathematics, and metaphysics, and since· he succeeded
with respect to the intellectual functions, he also looked to the head
for signs of the different characters. Thus, Gall gave himself
up entirely to the observation of nature, resorting merely to physi-
ognomical indications as a means of discovering the functions of the ·
brain, and furnishing an uncolored statement of the facts in nature
which he observed.
The spirit with which Galf conducted his researches into
the moral and intellectual nature of man, is expressed in the pub-
lication of two chapters of a great work entitled ' Philosophisch-
medicinische Untersuchungen ueber Nntur and Kunst im gesunden
and kranken Zustande des l\Ienschen. 1Vien, 179l.' It is to
be regretted that the continuation of this work has never appeared..
GENERAL VIEW. ll
The first written notice of Dr. Gall's inquiries concerning the
head, appeared in a familiar letter to Baron Retzer, which was in-
serted in the German periodical journal 'Deutscher ~1ercur,' in
December, 1798.
In 1796 he commenced giving private lectures at Vienna.
Several of his hearers, for instance Froriep* and Dr. "\Valther t
published notices of his doctrines. On the 9th of January, 1802,
the Austrian Government issued an order, that his lectures should
cease, his doctrines being considered dangerous to religion. A
general regulation was made upon that occasion, prohibiting all
private lectures, unless a special permission was obtained fmrn the
public authorities. Dr. Gall never solicited permission, and ceased
his lectures at Vienna.
In 1800, I assisted for the first time at one of his courses of
lectures, and after having completed my medical studies in 1604, I
became associated with him in his labors, concerning the Anato-
my, Physiology, and Pathology of the brain, and nervous system.
The merit of Dr. Gall as an .anatomist may be looked for in the
preface of my work on the Anatomy of the Brain, and in the second
note added to the article on Phrenology from the Foreign Quarter-
ly Review. The physiological doctrines, as they are published
by Dr. Bischoff in Berlin, and l\1r. Bloede in Dresden, in 1805,
are Dr. Gall's exclusive property. Every new addition, from that
period up to 1813, must be considered as common to us both, be-
cause we pursued our inquiries together, as stated in the preface
:of the large work on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain.t
In 1813, our united labors ceased, and since that period each one
has inquired for himself. Dr. Gall's Jast publication, 'sur les
fonctions du Cerveau, Paris, six volumes,' fixes the extent of his
physiological and philosophical notions. It contains the history of
his proceedings, and that of every special organ he discovered. It
:also shows the arrangement of the organs which he acknowledges,
* Exposition of the doctrine of Dr. Gall, 3d edition.
1 Exposition critique de la doctrine du Dr. Gall, avec quelques particu]arites
II(!Oncernant son auteur. Zurich. 1802.
!. Preface, vol. 1. p. 17.
1.2 PHRENOLOGY.
and the nomenclature which he proposes. The latter will be found
mdicating actions rather than powers, and denotes the spirit in
which he conducted his researches.
In my nomenclature the powers themselves are designated with-
out referring to any good or bad purpose. The reader who takes
an interest in the history of Phrenology, and in the personal merit
of its propounders, will distinguish between the doctrine as the
great founder discovered and understood it, and Phrenology as it
is taught in its actual state of improvement.
We began our joint labors in 1804 ; all anatomical discoveries,
after that period, are the result of my exertions. In this volume,
at the end of each chapter, I shall recapitulate the original concep-
tions of Gall and my additions. Our ideas on all the other
branches of Phrenology, on the nature of the fundamental powers
of the mind, on education, and on the religious and moral nature
of man, are very different. Gall's notions on those subjects, are
dispersed in his above mentioned volumes, mine are explained in
separate chapters. Let every one earp the merit he deserves. Also,
those who add to our discoveries, have a just claim to every idea
of improvement, and I shall always be disposed to acknowledge it
with a feeling of gratitude.
Gall's first inquiries were physiognomical; he looked for external
signs of internal capacities. They were generally styled Dr. Gall's
doctrine "of brain and skull, GaB's Hirn u~d Schedel-lehre.
"\Vhen we began to publish in 1808, under our joint names, the
title, .B.natomy and Physiology of the nervous system in general,
and of the brain in particular, seemed preferable to designate the
nature of our investigations. In extending my vie\vs, I found it
necessary to change the name again. I have chosen that of PHREN-
OLOGY, which is derived from two Greek words : <r~77l'-mind, and
loyo~-discourse ; and I understand by it, the doctrine of the spe-
cial phenomena of the mind, and of the relations between the men-
tal dispositions and the body, partic.ularly the brain.
Many, at the outset, ask whether this doctrine be useful. It is,
however, necessary to begin by knowing the nature, reality, and
GENERAL VIEW.
extent of phrenological principles, before we can be qualified to
speak of their application. I take it for granted, that every kind of
knowledge is useful, or, as Lord Bacon said, knowledge is power.
I only add, that Phrenology concerns the most important element
.in the nature of man: the manifestations of his affective and intel-
lectual faculties. Now, we examine all the beings which sur-
round us: we divide and subdivide the different objects which
nature presents to us : we study mineralogy, botany, zoology ; why
should we not study man, who manifests the greatest number of
faculties, and who is lord of the terrestrial creation ? Man, there-
fore, considered merely as the most important being of creation,
ought espeeially to interest every thinking person. Moreover,
it must be surely of the utmost importance to know our own nature.
Among the Greeks the divine precept written upon the temple of
Delphos was F1'W0t aeavroY-Know thyself. On the other hand,
Phrenology, by specifying the fundamental powers of the mind,
will become the basis of philosophy. Farther, our interest in
being acquainted with human nature, increases in proportion as we
live in soeiety, and as we feel the necessity of influencing those we
would direct. It is also evident, that institutions which are not
founded on the true knowledge of mankind cannot be permanent.
Physicians too, must be aware that moral causes frequently de-
range the vegetative functions ; hence, every medical man, and par-
ticularly those who treat the insane, ought to be acquainted with
the conditions requisite to the mental operations in the healthy
state, and Phrenology, therefore, is an indispensable part of the
medical education. · Thus, it seems impossible to point out any
object more interesting to natural philosophers, anatomists, physi-
ologists, physicians, teachers, moralists, and legislators.
I do not pretend that the study of man has been neglected.
On the contrary, reflecting people, in all ages, haye thought it es·
pecially \vorthy of their attention. They have noticed the actions
of the most remarkable individuals, as well as of mankind in gen
eral ; inquired into the number and nature of the faculties of
man ; and invented many systems as developements of the causes
14 PHRENOLOGY.
of human action. But though individuals of almost all profes·
sions have endeavored to elucidate human nature, it must be
allowed that our knowledge of the subject is still extremely defect-
ive ; and when we consider, that so many great men have been
engaged in its study, we are astonished that so little has been
accomplished.
It would, indeed, be difficult to imagine this slow progress and
limited improvement, if the manifold obstacles to scientific in-
quiries in general, and to anatomy and physiology in particular,
were unknown. Among the former, we may reckon the religious
respect which men have for ancient opinions,' and their aversion
to such as are new ; the obligation and the ease of maintainiPg
accredited opinions ; our inaptness to think for ourselves ; the
want of clearness and precision in our ideas, and in the signs by
which we express them ; the mania for forming systems upon a
few solitary facts and hasty conceptions ; the jealousy, the envy,
the falsifications of opponents ; and their malice in drawing dan-
gerous consequences from the most innocent statements.
The particular causes of ignorance in mental philosophy may
be divided into natural and artificial. Among the natural, the
most important is the difficulty which the examination of mankind
pi·esents. It may be observed, in general, that knowledge is less
advanced, the more difficult the object of examination. It is
easy to describe minerals, their volume, figure, weight, density,
color, and other physical qualities. This may also be done at
leisure. Hence, mineralogy is eminently advanced. Inquiries
relating to botany and zoology are more difficult ; and these
sciences are consequently less forward. For the same reason we
are, even as to plants and animals, better acquainted with their
physical qualities than with their vital functions. Anatomy, being
easier than pbysiology, is also more advanced. 'Ve may describe
and make drawings of animals at leisure ; we may anatomize and
preserve them with ease ; but it is more difficult to observe facts
in their lives, to inquire into their instinctive labors, their propen-
sities, and their particular faculties. Of the many books which
GENERAL VIEW. 15
treat on human nature, anatomical descriptions form the greatest
portion. In anatomy the parts, in physiology the functions, most
easily examined, are also the best known. It is infinitely easier
to examine musdes and bones, than the nervous system ; anatom-
ical and physiological knowledge of the brain and nervous system
has, therefore, made the slowest progress. Till our days, the ex-
ternal forms of the brain and its parts only were knO\vn ; their in-
ternal structure was quite overlooked ; and the physiological ideas
on the brain and nervous system, have been but a succession of
errors, ever conformable to the prevailing philosophical system of
the day.
Besides the natural difficulty of inquiring into the causes of the
functions, there are many artificial obstacles. The metaphysical
notions of the schools have greatly impeded improvements in
psychology. By substituting such metaphysical opinions, on all
occasions for data, which the observation of nature would have
furnished, physiologists, and even anatomists, came to regard
these opinions as sacred. The schoolmen, for example, say, the
soul is simple, and therefore its material residence must be simple
also, and all the nerves must end in a point ; in other words, the
nerves can have only one origin, because each individual has bu~
one souL Bonnet, Haller, and others, having extended its seat
to the whole substance of the brain, were contradicted by the
metaphysicians, \vho did not reflect, that a little more or less room
could not enable them to explain the nature of the soul any bet-
ter; nor that, according to the remark of Van Swieten, Tiede-
mann, and others, a material point, in which all ideas and sensa-
tions should centre, is inconceivable, in. consequence of the con-
fusion and disorder which would result from such an arrangement.
It appears, indeed, ridiculous, that the naturalist should he guided
in his researches and inductions by-such frivolous speculations. If
metaphysicians, on the contrary, "\Vould observe facts and ascer-
tain the conditions with which these are coupled,-on which they
depend,-their notions would never be at variance with the inferen-
ces of anatomy and physiology ; and one science would not arroe
16 PHRENOLOGY.
gate the right of setting bounds to the progress of another. The
doctrine of a single origin and central point for all the nerves, is
neither true nor possible ; as may be verified by examination.
If, after this, the metaphysician cannot comprehend the unity of
his individual consciousness, I ask him, if he can understand how,
in automatic life, such different apparatus concur by their varied
functions in forming one whole ? If he can reconcile, in animal
life, the occurrence of double organs with unity of function and
~implicity of consciousness ? If he can comprehend any single
power in the material world ?
The principal artificial impediment to the improvement of psy-
chology was the blamable method pursued in the study of human
nature. All phenomena were explained by the imagination alone,
or by hypotheses. There exist, even at the present day, philoso-
phers who maintain that man is in nowise subjected to the laws
of nature ; that he can begin a series of actions independent of all
cause and motive, and that his actions admit of no explanation.
According to these schoolmen, man is separated from all other
beings, and is considered as regulated by laws peculiar to himself.
They attribute all his operations to his soul ; several of them even
give it unbounded power over the body. This negligence~ in not
comparing men with other beings, has been a great obstacle to the
progress of psychology. .Moreover, the various branches of
anthropology, instead of being studied together are cultivated sepa-
rately. The usefu! example of the Greek philosophers is neg-
lected ; anatomy, physiology, medicine, philosophy, education,
religion, and legisl:ltion, instead of being studied as parts of a har-
monious whole, and united so as to exert a mutu~l influence, are
split into so many particular doctrines or sciences.
.l.VIan must be studied as a being of creation ; and •.his nature re-
quires the same method of examination as every other natural ob-
ject-observation and induction. To what profession, then, does
the study of human nature especially belong ? Many persons
cannot conceive why a physician should be continually speaking
of the knowledge of human nature. No profession, however, is
GENERAL VIEW 17
more interested in, and none affords better opportunities for, its
examination. The particular province of the physician is, indeed,
man in a state of disease ; but it is evident that knowledge of the
healthy must be the foundation of knowledge of the diseased state;
that is, pathology must be based upon physiology. Derangement
of the functions cannot be understood if we are not acquainted
with their regular and proper actions. Hence all physiological
inquiries are most intimately connected with medicine.
It cannot be doubted that, considered even in itself, the most
important part of man is the nervous system ; and traced in its re-
lations with other parts and other systems, inquiries into its func-
tions must also be more important the greater the influence it ex-
erts upon every operation of the animal economy. Now in man
and the more perfect animals, the manifestations of all the func-
tions are more or less subordinate to, and under the influence of,
the nervous system. Those of digestion, nutrition, circulation,
respiration, secretion, and excretion, are deranged or annihilated
when the nerves, which co-operate in their performance, are com-
pressed, wounded, or destroyed. Chemical changes, as acidity in
the alimentary canal during digestion, are the more apt to happen
the less the nervous power is active. The nerves distributed to
the organs of sense and to the muscles, are indispensable to the
performance of their functions. Impressions made on the body
below the division of a nerve are no longer perceived, and the
principle of motion cannot now be directed towards the muscles
with \vhich it is naturally connected. "\Ve shall also. see, that be-
sides the functions of the five external senses, all the instincts,
propensities, sentiments and intellectual faculties, all affections and
passions, and all the characteristics of humanity, are made mani-
fest by means ..of the nervous system alone. Hence we must ac-
knowledge, that without a sound physiology of the nervous system
there can be neither psychology nor any species of philosophy ;
and that physicians, in determining the nervous functions, render
the greatest service to philosophers, moralists, teachers, judges,
and legislators.
s
18 PHRENOLOGY.
From this it is obvious, that physicians, who must study the in-
fluence of the nervous system, are especially called upon to con-
tribute to the advancement of the knowledge of man. The exer-
cise of no profession, indeed, makes the necessity of knowing both
his physical and his moral state so intimately felt as that of medi-
cine, in consequence of the influence of affections of the mind
upon the vital functions. 'Vho has not observed, that grief,
jealousy, envy, hopeless love, and similar painful affections, con-
sume the principle of life ? The examination of the nervous sys-
tem, and of its influence, further interests physicians especiaHy, as
all mental alienations have their primitive cause in the mediate or
immediate derangement of a part or of the whole of it. In point-
ing out the conditions necessary to the manifestations of the sen-
timents and intellectual faculties in the healthy state, we conse-
quently contribute also to elucidate mental diseases ; no one, then,
is more interested than the physician in discovering the nature of
man.
Fortunately no class of men is better prepared than physicians
to investigate such subjects by accessory knowledge, and by the
study of nature in general ; nor is any one so frequently and so
1. seriously admonished by nature to revise opinions, to forsake
hypothetical reasoning, and to follow the simple method of expe-
rience, as he who is occupied in the treatment of disease. No
philosopher has such ample opportunity of being intimately con-
vinced, that all our knowledge ought to be reduced to a rational
mode of judging from experiment and observation. The physi-
cian, moreover, is placed in circumstances the most conducive
to a profound and certain knowledge of man. No one has such
facility of observing men at all times and in all situations, when
liberated from~ when incapable of, the restraint and ceremony
which custom and convenience impose. He alone has an oppor-
tunity of being, during the night or the day, witness of the most
intimate relations and the most secret events in families. Both
the good and the bad, when sick, conceal their true sentiments
GENERAL VIEW. 19
with difficulty, and who does not desire the friendship and the
confidence of the man whom he trusts with his own life, and with
the lives of his wife aud of his children ? To him, supposed to
know all that belongs to human nature, the most secret thoughts
are exposed, fi·ailties and errors acknowledged ; his judgmer..t is
guided by unreserved trust reposed. There is consequently no
profession more entitled to study mank~nd tlmn the medical.
Let us now ask : "\Vhat is the nature of :Man ? In the present
state of our knowledge, it is impossible to give an exact definition
of man. Such as we find in books, include the term animal; he
, who is not aware that man is an animal in many respects, or has
many organic parts and numerous functions in common with ani-
mals, is little advanced in an(hropology. On the other hand,
whoever thinks that tl1ere is no essential difference between man
and animals of a superior order, is also far from having an accu-
rate knowledge of human nature. There is no direct break in
the chain of animated beings; and all are linked together by
analogies. The idea of a regular scale and an uninterrupted con-
catenation of objects is obvious ; all divisions into orders, genera,
species and families, established by human understanding, only
mark the particularities, without interrupting the relations that
exist among the beings of creation. The last plant and the first
animal have a great number of like qualities; just as plants have
something common among themselves, and animals with each
other. Man possesses many powers in common with animals,
and it is reasonable to think that by others he is brought in con-
nexion with beings of a superim order.
The difficulty we encounter in the classification of living beings
generally, is also perceptible when we attempt a division of the
functions of any one being. Man not only exhibits several func-
tions analogous to those both of the inanimate and organised king-
dom, but the whole of those he possesses are likewise connected
·so intimately that they cannot be considered separately. Even
the characteristic qualities of humanity have something analogous
with the powers possessed in common by man and animals.
.20 PHRE~OLOGY
All who have studied nature in general, or man in particular,
have always paid the greatest attention to the causes of the phe-
nomena they obser'iTed. They are divided into two classes : .Ma~
terialists and Spiritualists. The former looked for an explanation
of the phenomena in various combinations of constituent ele-
ments, or in the mixture and form of bodies ; the latter attribu-
ted all phenomena to beings, principles, entities, substances, spirits,
or souls. According to them, planets and comets are moved,
plants grow, and animals exhibit their functions by the influence
of souls. All activity is a consequence of the agency of immate-
rial beings. Inertness and form are the essential characters of
matter. There is a certain number of elementary matters, and
these can exist either singly or in a compound state, but in every
case without inherent activity.
The doctrine of the souls, or psychology, is involved in the
most inextricable difficulties. Now-a-days matter is considered
as active, or endowed with various qualities, and as exercising
some influence in the tmiverse: Salt is soluble in water ; the
quality of solubility is therefore inherent in salt, though this may
be latrnt, till brought into contact with water. Thus matter is
not inert, in the sense that it has no qualities, but these may be
dormant or inactive, and their exhibition may require the action
and re-action of other substances.
The same remarks apply to organised bodies, or those which
are composed of different matters, and arranged in such a man-
ner as qualifies them to perform certain functions. They are en-
dowed with dispositions, but these remain inert or inactive without
an exc1tmg cause. An egg proper for incubation, and fruit trees
in the winter season, possess 'iTitality, but they require the influ-
1 ence of caloric ~o show it. Thus, organised beings, though com-
posed of a variety· of substances, require additional exciting sub-
stances ; which, in ancient times, were styled immaterial and in-
corporeal, or SP.irits, as being without form.
The doctrine of immaterial substances is not sufficiently amen-
able to · the test of obserration ; it is founded on belief, and only
supported by hypothesis. It is an essential item in metaphysics.
GENERAL VIEW. 21
Opinions upon such points must vary continually, and none can
ever gain general assent. Those which flatter the wishes of mqn
the most, and astonish and promise the greatest advantages, will
be the most readily and generally believed.
l\lany ancient spiritualists admitted two souls, one irrational and
mortal, another rational and immortal. Stahl and his school un-
derstand by the term soul, a being that produces all the phenom-
ena of man, as well the vegetative as the animal functions.
The majority of modern spiritualists define the soul, a being
which has consciousness and will, and which is immaterial and im-
mortal.
:Modern physiologists examine the vegetati\Te functions of ani-
mals independently of the soul ; they speak of certain fluids, called
by the ancients spirits, as their causes, but do not agree about their
number. Caloric evidently exists, and is essential to life. The
influence of the electric fluid is also frequently obvious. Discus-
sions too on the nervous principle are not yet terminated.
The doctrine of active principles becomes particularly difficult,
when we come to consider the affective and intellectual functions
of man. Religious people often reject all such investigations, and
stick to faith. 'Ve, however, must be permitted to regret, that
the religious codes of neither Je\vs nor Christians decide on the
number, or determine the nature, of the principles which act in
man. They admit positively an immortal agent, but do not deny
the existence of other principl_
es. Is it true that the body has its
own laws, and that the affective and intellectual faculties depend
on two separate principles; may we theref?re speak with St. Paul
'of the body, the soul, and the spirit?'*
Physiologists, following the opinions of metaphysical schools,
soon thought of,..looking for corporeal seats or habitations of the
principles o
rsouls. Those who believed in one single soul, as the
cause of all the phenomena of man, assigned to it a more or less
extensive seat ; at one time the whole body, and again no more
than a single point. Aristotle placed the sentient soul in the heart,
" 1 Thess. v. 23.
22 PHRENOLOGY.
Erasistratus in the membranes, Herophilus in the great cavities of
the brain, Serveto in the acqueduct of sylvius, Aurantius in the
fourth ventricle, Descartes in the pineal gland, 'Vhaton and Schell-
hammer in the c.ommencement of the spinal marrow, Drelincourt
in the cerebellum, Bontekoe, Lancisi, and La Peyronnie in the
corpus callosum ; "'\Villis in the corpora striata, Vieussens in the
centrum ovale of the medullary substance, and so on.
:Metaphysicians also endeavored to explain the influence be-
tween the soul and body mutually; and they broached the most
extravagant opinions upon this point. Some authors, with l\iale-
branche, consider God as the immediate agent between the soul
and the body : others explain the mutual influence of the mind
and body by the agency of some medium or middle substance ;
and hence the great number of vapors, fluids, pneumata, and vital
spirits; hence the introduction of caloric and the electric, galvanic,
and magnetic fluids.
Inquiries into the nature of the soul, its origin, seat, mode of
action on the body, and final destination, belong exclusively to
metaphysicians and theologians ; they are beyond the province of
the physiologist. Both Gall and I, therefore, have always de-
clared, that we merely observe the affective and intellectual mani-
festations, and the organic conditions under which they take place ;
and that in using the word organs, we mean only the organic
parts by means of which the faculties of the mind become apparent,
but not that these constitute them.
The functions of man may be divided into three classes : vegeta-
tive, affective, and intellectual. The vegetative are destined to pre-
serve the individual, and to continue the speeies. The affective
and intellectual are the real objects of Phrenology, and of this vol-
ume, \vhich will be divided into nine sections. In the .fii·st, I shall
speak of sensibility in general; in the second, of t11e relatfon between
the affective and intellectual manifestations of the mind and the
bodily constitution or the temperaments, and the viscera of the ab-
domen and thorax ; in the third, of the dependency of the affective
and intellectual faculties on the brain ; in the fourth, of the neces-
0~ SENSIBILITY. 23
sity of dividing the faculties of the mind, and of admitting the
plurality of the respective organs ; the fifth section will treat of the
means of determining the functions of the cerebral parts; the sixth,
of craniology ; the seventh, of the division of the fundamental pow-
ers ; the eighth, of the affective qualities and their organs ; and the
ninth, of the intellectual faculties and their organs.
SECTION I.
On Sensibility.
THIS expression has not always the same meaning. It is often
confounded with irritability. Sensibility, then, indicates the pow-
er of acting in a regular way, according to previous impressions.
It is in this sense that we speak of sensible or sensitive plants; and
that the sensibility of animals is divided into two sorts : one organic,
and another animal ; the first, or organic, taking place without,
and the second, or animal, existing with, consciousness. Des-
cartes, Stahl, Cabanis, Bichat, Cuvier, Blumenbach, Reil, and
others, admit sensibility without consciousness. I limit the sense
of the word, and employ it only t~ indicate the power of perceiving
and of knowing impressions made on the nerves.
As I make a distinction between irritability and sensibility, so I
also separate consciousness and sensibility from voluntary functions.
Sensibility is frequently opposed to the involuntary or automatic
functions ; but in that sense, by far the greater number of the af-
fective and intellectual functions are automatic.
Now the seat of Sensibility may be demanded. The greater
number of f>~ysiologists consider the brain, without the spinal mar-
row ·and the nerves of the fiv.e external senses, as the organ of all
consciousness, and in support of this opinion adduce the following
proofs. A nerve that is divided cannot produce either sensation
or voluntary motion, however irritated. Hence, the sentient prin-
.24 PHRENOLOGY.
ciple does not restde in the nerves, nor at the place where the
impression is made, but in the brain. If a nerve at its origin or in
its course be compressed or tied, its function is suspended, but if
the pressure be removed, it returns. Hence, the consciousness
of all impressions must reside in the brain. 'Vhen the brain is
compressed by a fluid, by an excrescence, by turgid blood-vessels,
or suffers a violent concussion, all sensation is interrupted, and is
only restored as the compression goes on diminishing or is entirely
removed. In convulsive fits, pains are sometimes felt as if as-
cending along the nerves to the brain. These pains are often
cured by dividing or by tying the nerves. After the amputation of a
limb, individuals, though perfectly cured, often fancy that they feel
pain in the fingers, toes, or other parts of the amputated limb. This
pain can only have its seat in the brain. Finally, volition comes
from the brain ; consequently, the first cause of voluntary motion
resides in it. The opinion that all consciousness resides in the
brain was formerly supported by the assertion that the nerves are
continuations of its substance, and that they have a central point of
union m It. This argument, however, can no longer be received,
as it is certain that neither the nerves of the external senses, nor
the spinal marrow, are prolongations of the cerebral mass ; and
that no such central point exists ; but that every pair of nerves has
its own origin, and that the different systems are brought into com-
munication by nervous bundles, and through this medium exert a
mutual influence.
OBJECTIONS.
On the other hand, arguments of different degrees of validity
may he employed to prove that the brain is not exclusively the
organ of sensation and of voluntary motion. Dumas thinks, that
those who having lost a limb imagine they feel a pain in it, do so by
their power of recollection. If that be the case, Dumas ought to
prove that the power of recollection is different from that of con-
sciousness, before he can conclude that that power may exist in
ON SENSU;ILJTY. 25
the brain and consciousness everywhere. Besides, why is it ab-
solutely impossible to produce equal degrees of other agreeable or
disagreeable sensations by means of the power of recollection ?
Moreover, after amputations, why are pains particularly excited by
wet, stormy and changeable weather ? The assertion of Dumas
is therfore far from refuting the positive proofs, that all conscious-
ness belongs-to the brain.
The same physiologist thinks that the brain can neither be the
seat nor the organ ofsensation, because it is insensible. It is true that
the convolutions of the brain, when wounded or mutilated, do not
produce such pains as the nerves of feeling when they are injured.
Yet, in certain diseases, the brain becomes very painful, just as
happens with other parts which manifest little or no sensibility in
the healthy state. Besides, no one says that pains felt in his
limbs exist in the brain. They exist in the part where the im-
pressions are made ; and consciousness alone exists in the brain.
Moreover, we must remember that the sensations of different
parts are quite dissimilar, and that although one part does not pro-
duce the sensation of another, it cannot on that account be called
insensible. The nerves of hunger and thirst cannot perceive the
sensation of pride or of compassion ; the olfactory nerve cannot
perceive the impressions of light, &c., but every particular sensation
appertains to a particular organic structure. Now, thinking and will-
ing, are certainly sensations, and no one can, or will, deny that these
two functions are confined to the brain; it can only be said, there-
fore, that the brain does not manifest all sorts of sensation. The
assertion, hmvever, that all consciousness resides in the brain, is
not yet refuted, and it may still be maintained that the nerves pro-
duce the impressions, whilst the brain is necessary to perceive, or
have consciousness of them.
It is also objected that acephali, entirely destitute of brain, some-
times live, suck, and move, in various ways ; and, consequently,
that the brain cannot be the only organ of sensation. In this ob-
jection, automatic motions are evidently confounded with conscious-
ness, in the same way as Gautier says, that a beheaded cock flut-
4
26 PHRE~OLOGY.
tering in the agonies of death, struggles to fight and defend itself.
All similar phenomena, which may be observed in insects, fishes,
reptiles, birds, quadrupeds, and even in man, are the result of irri-
tability without consciousness. Such motions, only seem to be ac-
companied with sensation and will, because the organic structure
and mechanical arrangement of the parts, cause the motions to be
produced precisely as they would, were they determined by the
will, and took place with consciousness. There are many phe-
nomena whicb happen according to determinate laws, without con-
sciousness, reflection, or will; and muscular motions may be the
same, whether they occur as effects of the will, or of any other
Irritating cause. During sleep and before birth, automatic motions
exist in sufficient perfection, while the animal functions are still
inactive.
It is not even determined, whether the crying and sucking of
the infant are always accompanied by consciousness, or, whether
these phenomena belong to automatic life. It seems to me that they
are sometimes automatic, and at other times ani~al, just as motions
in general are. It must therefore be allowed, that certain parts of
the body produce automatic motions only ; and that other parts,
subject to the will, are capable of producing motions, which are
not the result of its activity, but conformable to their structure.
Duverney is said to have removed the brain entirely from some
pigeons, which, notwithstanding, continued to exhibit all the animal
functions. Similar experiments on turtles are mentioned by several
authors, whose knowledge of the facts, however, has been derived
merely fi·om hearsay. "\Ve are quite sure that the whole brain can-
not be removed without destroying at once the nerves of the ex-
ternal senses, and the animals themselves. It is eYen generally
known, that sportsmen kill wounded birds by pushing a feather into
their neck. In order to ascertain the extent to which these re-
ported experiments of Duverney were true, I, myself, cut off the
gre<?_test portion of the hemispheres of the brain of fo\vls and pig-
eons, even the great commissure of rabbits to the level of the lat-
eral ventricles ; and the animals manifested distinctly their senses
ON SENSIBILITY. 27
of seeing and hearing. They did not take the food presented to
them, but they swallO\ved bread and seed put into their bills.
Rabbits mutilated in that manner, walked, saw, and heard ; they
even took food spontaneously. It is evident, therefore, that the
removal of all the superior parts of the brain neither destroys the
functions of the five senses, nor the muscular motions. But it is
impossible to take away the whole cerebral mass without killing
the animals. Hence, Gall, and I, declare, that the experiments
made by Duverney must be entirely false; and we have shown,
that all that can be concluded from similar ones, is, that the whole
brain is not necessary to the functions of the five senses; Lut still,
the conclusion by no means follows, that no cerebral part is abso-
lutely necessary to their functions; seeing, that in animals of a
higher order, it is impossible to separate the brain from the nerves
without depriving them of sense and life at once.
There are other arguments which give reason to suppose that
the external se113es have perception. There are animals to which
it is impossible to deny feeling_and taste, although they present
nothing which may be compared to the brain. Now, every nerve
destined to a particular function has its own origin, its gradual en-
largement, its particular form, and is a whole in respect to its struc-
ture; why relatively to its function should it not also be a whole?
The functions of the nervous systems of the five senses, arc in
proportion to the perfection of their particular organizations, and
by no means to the quantity of brain. Several insects, notwith-
standing the extreme smallness of their brain, are endowed with
an extraordinary fine feeling, taste, and smell. Eagles, though
possessing much less JJrain, see farther than clogs; and the smell
of the canine tribes, generally, is more acute than that of man,
whose brain is so much more considerable. But all these facts do
no.t prove that consciousness resides in the nerves. Voluntary
motion is proportionate to the size and organic constitution of the
muscles, the exciting cause however, called will, resides in the brain.
It has likewise been observed, that when the internal organiza-
tion of a sense, as well as its external apparatus, is destroyed, all
28 PHRENOLOGY.
ideas belonging to it are lost, or annihilated. It must, however,
be granted, that even these arguments do not suffice to explain,
why, among perfect animals, the nerves which are pressed, tied,
or di\rided, lose sensation. Perhaps, in them, some parts of the
brain are as necessary to consciousness, as the heart is to the
circulation of the blood; while in lower tribes, a kind of obscure
consciousness may exist, independent of the brain, just as among
them, and also among plants, circulation goes on without a heart.
After all, it remains undecided, at least as far as animals of the
superior orders are concerned, bow far the brain is necessary to
the passive consciousness of the external senses. But it is certain
that the will, and consequently the 'I'Olttntary motions and reflec-
tion, depend on the brain; for none of these phenomena are dis-
played without it. The regular motions are, therefore, to be dis-
tinguished into such as are regular, but only automatic, and into
such as are both regular and voluntary; the latter depend on
the action of the brain, the former take place without it. It
IS also necessary to make distinctions respecting the functions
of the five external senses; we are ignorant whether their passive
consciousness exists with the presence of their respective nerves
alone, or in consequence of the addition of the brain ; this,
however, is certain, that their active consciousness, accompanied
with attention, reflection, and will, can only coexist with the brain.
SECTION I I.
Do the Jlfanifestations of the JJ!ind depend on the Organic Con-
stitution of the whole Body, or do the Peelings more especially
reside in the Viscera?
:MANY physiologists and philosophers dwell particularly on unity,
both in organic and inorganic nature. They maintain that the
whole contributes to the performance of every function, and that
no part can do aught in an isolated state. This manner of speak-
MANIFESTATIONS OF THE l\IIND. 29
ing is not sufficiently precise. It is indeed true, that no part can
perform its function if its organization be not healthy: the eyes
must be perfect, otherw·ise they cannot see, &c. All the parts,
therefore, which are concerned in the reproduction and nutrition of
the organs, contribute, mediately, to the display of every function;
peculiar functions, however, are performed by peculiar organs.
In the same manner, the greater number of modern philoso-
phers and physiologists, conceive the possibility of reducing the
whole of the mental phenomena to understanding or intelligence.
The ancients thought differently; they spoke of two sorts of opera-
tions, under the title of soul and spirit, moral and intellectual fac-
ulties, heart and head, feelings and thoughts, &c. This nomencla-
ture, however defective, proves that the phrenic functions were
early divided into two classes. Different parts of the body \vere
even assigned as their seats; the feelings being supposed resident
in the viscera of the_thorax and abdomen, particularly in the heart,
and the intellect in the head.
To confound the feeling with understanding, is a very grievous
error, which must retard the knowledge of man; it seems to have
arisen from the simultaneous action of the affective and intellect-
ual faculties. This, however, also happens with the two sorts
of the vegetative functions ; those which preserve the individual,
go on whilst the species is propagated; yet these two cannot be
confounded.
All philosophers have agreed to separate intellect from the veg-
etative functions; the reasons for doing so, also prove the differ-
ence between the affective and intellectual faculties. I assume
every one as conscious of his existence, of his intellect, and of his
feelings. Personal conviction, therefore, is the same, both as re-
gards the feelings and intellect. But, how can we know that
others are endo;ved with the affective powers? In the same way
as we know that they possess intellect; by observation and induc-
tion in the healthy and diseased state. I think it superfluous to
give mo::e details on these points, or to enter very deeply into
speculative reasonings, since the purport of this volume is to analyze
80 PHRENOLOGY.
the special powers of the mind, and to show their respective or·
gans. From the title of this section, it is evident that it embraces
two sorts of considerations, which I shall elucidate in succession.
CHAPTER I.
On Temperaments.
THE ancient philosophers, in recognising the influence of the
body over the manifestations of the mind, dwelt much on the im-
portance of the temperaments. This expression has not always
had the same meaning. Those who regarded mixtures of ele-
ments, and bodily constitution, as primary or secondary causes of
the mental operations, employed the term temperament, sometimes
to indicate the bodily constitution, and sometimes to designate the
mental functions.
There is no doubt that the individual corporeal systems, such as
the circulatory, secretory, nervous, and others, influence the whole
body, modify its functions, and endow them with greater or less
actiVIty. But they are mistaken, who imagine that the general or-
ganic constitution is the cause of particular feelings and intellectual
faculties; for instance, that individuals of a sanguine temperament
have an easy conception, a lively imagination, and a strong memory,
and are addicted to sensual pleasures and levity; or who fancy that
the bilious temperament is the cause of penetration, firmness, ob-
stinacy, of concealment, ambition, of violent passions, &c.
This error is very easily refuted: First, all animals are neg-
lected in the doctrine of temperaments. How can their widely
varied and dissimilar faculties be explained by the small number
of temperaments or their combinations? Idiots, too, have cer-
tainly some temperament; why do they not exert the faculties said
to pertain to it? .Moreover, daily experience shows that there is
no fixed and constant proportion between temperaments and de-
TEMPERAMENTS. 31
terminate mental faculties. There are many, who, with a melan-
choly look, are not at all melancholy ; we find sanguine and bil-
ious people, intellectual or stupid, meek or impetuous ; whilst
phlegmatics are often bold, quarrelsome, and imperious ; in many
diseases, also, the humors and organic constitution of the body are
much altered, but the faculties of the mind do not suffer a propor-
tionate change. In short, the doctrine of the temperaments, as
applied to the indication of determinate faculties, is not more sure,
nor better founded, than divination by the hands, feet, skin, hair,
or ears.
',ye, however, do not deny the influence of the organic constitu-
tion upon the manifestation of the feelings and intellectual faculties.
We readily conceive how the organic constitution of the brain may
be modified by digestion, circulation, perspiration, and nutrition,
and how the different states of organization may produce different
degrees of activity of the mental faculties generally ; but it is im-
possible to show that the same temperament should bestow great
energy on some faculties, and strong peculiar passions, while the
manifestations of others remain very weak. Thus, to derive de-
terminate faculties and positive propensities from the tempera-
ments, is very different from saying that the faculties of the mind
are modified in quantity and quality by bodily constitution in gen-
eral, and by that of the respective organs in particular. "'\'Ve con-
sider the study of temperaments as the first step in phrenology.
There are some individuals more irritable, more energetic, more
fit to be exercised, and more able to contain their mental exercises
than others; but the organic constitution of the whole body is not
the condition on which the manifestations of the special feelings
and intellectual faculties depend. In my work on characters I
speak of four temperam~nts, as of four different degrees of activ-
ity. I describe their extern~!. signs and exemplify each tempera-
ment by a portrait.
32
CHAPTER II.
Do the Feelings depend on the Viscera, of the .JJ.bdomen
and Thorax~
A GREAT number of physiologists, physicians and philosophers,
derive the propensities and sentiments from different viscera of
the chest and belly, or from the nervous plexuses and ganglions
of the great sympathetic nerve. Comparative anatomy and physi-
ology suffice to confute this opinion. There are animals endowed
with faculties attributed to certain viscera, which, however, do not
possess these viscera. Insects, for instance, become angry, and
have neither liver nor bile. The ox, horse, hog, &c., have a
great number of viscera analogous to those of the human kind,
and yet want many of the faculties possessed by man, and attrib-
uted to these viscera. There is no proportion, either in animals
or in man, between the size of the viscera or of the ganglia of the
nervous system, and the strength of the moral sentiments ascribed
to them. Several viscera, nervous plexuses, and ganglions, are
likewise larger in animals than in man, and yet the attributed
qualities are more energetic in man. There is no proportion be-
tween the number of viscera and the nature of the propensities
and sentiments in different animals. The four-footed beasts have
viscera and nervous ganglia very much alike ; as the dog, wild
boar, ox, horse, sheep, beaver, hare, roe, wolf, tiger, lion, &c.;
yet their inclinations are universally different, and even opposite,
whilst, according to the above stated hypothesis, the heart of the
tiger ought to be the organ of cruelty, and that of the lamb of
meekness. Neither is there any proportion between the period
of the developement of the viscera and the appearance of the pro-
pensities and sentiments ; in young animals and in children sev-
eral viscera are sooner developed than the inclinations ascribed to
them are manifested ; at lea~t, they are not exhibited in the ratio
of the developement. It is therefore astonishing that Bichat
VISCERA. 33
should have derived all passions from organic life, as he believed
that organic life was perfect in new-born children, and yet that
children have no passions. Those who, with Reil, maintain that
the nervous plexuses and ganglia are the organs of the affections
and passions, and who say that these apparatus are destined to
weaken or interrupt the propagation of internal impressions to the
brain, are guilty of a similar inconsistency ; for affections and pas-
sions make powerful impressions wbich reach the brain, and are
felt both by animals and man. :\Ioreover, it is a principle in the
animal economy, that every organic part manifests only one par-
ticular function. Now each viscus has its appropriate office,
which is even generally known, and seen to barmonize with its
structure.
Confining our view to the human species, we may add, that
acephali and complete idiots have viscera pnd ganglia, and often a
very energetic assimilating power, and yet manifest no moral sen-
timent. Finally, the moral sentiments are not deranged in pro-
portion as the viscera are diseased. From all these considera-
tions, we infer that the viscera of the chest and abdomen, are not
the organs of the afiective powers of the mind.
Some reply that man, when affected in any way, when influ-
enced by passion, as anger, jealousy, or fear, feels evidently some
motion in the viscera, and that it is therefore natural to suppose
these afiections resident in the bowels. It may, however, be
answered, generally, that from sensations experienced, or other
phenomena exhibited by different parts of the body, it is impos-
sible to infer that the primitive causes are inherent there. Every
part communicates with, and exercises an influence upon, every
other. In this way, the great sympathetic or nerve of the abdo-
men and thorax, is connected with the spinal marrow, with the
nerves of the external senses, and with the brain. "\Vithout this
connexion, animal life would be confined to the brain, and this
organ could not excite the instrument of motion. The activity
of one part commonly produces different phenomena in others ;
and as the existence of pain and pleasure does not demonstrate
5
34 PHRENOLOGY.
consciousness of these impressions resident at the place where
they are felt, so, peculiar sensations experienced in the thorax and
abdomen do not demonstrate that the affections have their seat in
the included viscera of these cavities. Sorrow makes the tears
flow, anger makes the knees tremble and the lips quiver ; but who
asserts that sorrow resides in the lachrymal gland, or anger in the
knees and lips ? Wounds of the brain excite vomiting : the prim-
itive cause of this phenomenon is in the brain ; but no one will
place the vomiting there. Indigestible aliments occasion head-
ache ; and intestinal worms, narcotics, and other poisonous sub-
stances, sometimes produce madness, blindness, &c.; but who
from 'this wi11 maintain that headache, madness, blindness, &c.,
have their seat in the alimentary canal? The remembrance of an
injury received acts upon the heart, and increases the strength and
frequency of its beats ; _
but is the brain, therefore, the organ of
circulation ? From these and similar considerations, it fo11ows
that the sensations produced in different parts by affections and
passions do not entitle us to infer that these are their respective
organs.
Ail that has been said to prove that the abdominal and thoracic
viscera are not the organs of the moral sentiments, applies also to
the nervous plexuses and ganglia of the abdomen and thorax.
These nervous systems are essentially necessary to the perform-
ance of the functions of vegetative life.
The influence, then, of the abdominal and thoracic viscera on
the manifestations of the mind is only mediate; their functions
contribute to the organic constitution of the brain as well as of
the body in general, but they are not the seat of the affective
faculties.
35
SECTION III.
The Brain is the Organ of the .fljfective and Intellectual
Functions.
FoR many centuries the brain has been said to be the organ of
the soul ; and hence some may think it superfluous to enter into
any detailed argument to support this truth. However, there still
exist many doubts to be solved, many difficulties to be removed,
and many notions to be fixed with more precision. The repeti-
tion of passing and contradictory opinions is very different from
accurate knowledge of a subject in all its rletails.
If, according to the ancient philosophers, the intellectual facul-
ties be placed in the brain, and the moral sentiments in the viscera
of the abdomen and thorax, that the understanding might not be
disturbed by the passions ; -if it be said that the nervous plexus
or ganglia are the seats of the affections ; -if, according to Dumas,
Richerand, Sprengel, and other physiologists, the difference of the
feelings and intellectual faculties results from the difference of the
temperaments ;- if Pinel and others do not dare to seek in the
brain for the proximate causes of mental alienations ;-if Bichat
consider the hemispheres of the brain as mere coverings of the in-
ternal parts ; -if, according to Sabatier and Boyer, the brain be a
secreting organ, and, according to the greater number of anato-
mists before us, the origin and source of the nerves ;-if all sensa-
tions and ideas be derived from the five external senses ; -if the
instinctive labors of animals, and the arts of man, be ascribable to
their hands, eyes, ears, and other external instruments ; -if it be
maintained that one nerve can perform the function of another, so
that the nerves are homogeneous ;- if it be taught by some mag-
netisers, that, in the perfect state of animal magnetism, the spirit
acts without the assistance of the organization ; - if the greater
number of metaphysicians maintain that the highest faculties of
the understanding - reason and will, at least act independently of 1
36 PHRE.:\'OLOGY.
all organization ; -if hydrocephalic persons be mentioned, who
without brain have manifested feelings and intellectual faculties ;
-if the same be related of animals \Yhose brain was ossified ;-if
any of these assertions be admitted, and the brain be at the same
time maintained the exclusive organ of the soul, the contradiction
is evident. Now there is no author who has not ad\'anced one
or other of these suppositions ; and, therefore, it will not be super-
fluous to detail our ideas relative to the organ of the soul, and tc
inculcate our principle that the brain is the sole organ both of the
feelings and of the intellectual faculties.
In support of this truth, I accordingly make the following obser-
vations:-
Vegetative life requires neither the brain nor the cerebellum.
The superior parts of both hemispheres, the great commissure,
even more than half of the cerebellum may be wmmded, destroy-
ed b)' suppuration, or removed, without injury to the functions of
the five external senses, or of vegetative life. Acephali, or mon-
sters destitute of brain, are frequently born strong and fat, several
of them even live some time after birth. Hence, if the brain were
not destined for superior functions, its existence would be useless.
However, it is more than probable that the largest and most
curious and complicated of all the nervous systems, has functions
corresponding to the perfectness of its organization.
.Moreover, all the parts of the body may be wounded or destroy-
ed -even the nervous mass of the spine may be compressed or
injured at a certain distance from the brain, without immediately
destroying the feelings and intellectual faculties. In tetanus, pro-
duced by a cause remote from the brain, the other nervous sys-
tems are sometimes attacked in the most violent manner, while the
functions of the mind remain entire till death. On the contrary,
if the brain be compressed, or destroyed, its functions are deranged,
and the manifestations of feelings and intellectual faculties are sus-
pended or annihilated.
However defective our knowledge of the scale of the brain
from the lowest animals to man may be, it is nevertheless certain
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 37
that the cerebral parts multiply, whenever the number and energy
of feelings and intellectual faculties increase. Now this would
not hold good were not the brain exclusively the organ of the feel-
ings and intellectual faculties.
If the developement of brain be defective, on the other
hand, manifestations of feelings and intellectual faculties are also
defective. An infinite number of cases prove the brains of idiots
from birth defective, and the manifestations of feelings and in-
tellectual faculties perfect in proportion as the organization of
the brain improves ; and the developement of the brain very
considerable, if the feelings and intellectual faculties are very
energetic. Of the truth of this last proposition every obserrer
may be convinced by inspecting the heads of those who have
excelled in talents, and have been remarkable for their general
capacities.
Again, manifestations of the mental faculties always follow the
growth of the cerebral organs; in children the brain is small and
pulpy, and, therefore, the functions of animal life are not manifest-
ed ; but in proportion as it increases, the faculties appear ; and in
its state of highest developement the mental manifestations show
the greatest energy. Moreover, in proportion as the organization
of the brain decreases, the energy of the feelings and intellectual
faculties decreases also.
Further, if the brain do not follow the common order of devel-
opement, if this take place earlier or later than usual, the feelings
and intellectual faculties are evinced in the same order.
Certain faculties, also, are more active !n men, and others in
women, in conformity with the difference observable in their cere-
bral organizations.
Precisely as the volume and figure of the brain are propagated
from parents to children, are intellectual faculties and dispositions
hereditary.
To the preceding proofs I may add, that the affective and in-
tellectual faculties are weakened or deranged by age or disease,
in the same proportion as the brain is altered. Thus, all concur
38 PHRENOLOGY.
to prove that the brain is the organ of the feelings and intellect..
ual faculties.
OBJECTIONS.
There are, however, various objections to the ab2ve conclu~
s10n. I shall answer the most important of these, which are still
repeated by authors.
I. Diseases and Wo'ttnds of the Brain.
To prove the brain the exclusive organ of mind, I have said
that its functions are more or less disturbed by its diseases, and by
wounds of its substance. Hildanus relates the case of a boy ten
years of age, whose skull \Vas by an accident depressed near the
lambdoid suture, and as no immediate ill effect ensued from this,
the bone was not raised. The boy, who was endowed with strong
mental dispositions, by degrees lost memory and judgment, became
incapable of learning anything, fell into decay, and died at forty
years of age. Repeated observations induced Boerhaave to say,
that if the bones of the skull be forced in so as to compress the
brain, blunting of the senses, fainting fits, giddin~ss, loss of con-
sciousness, and delirium, will result. In the \vritings, too, of Mor~
gagni, Haller, and others, many slight injuries of the brain are
mentioned, by which the faeulties of the mind \Vere disturbed. It
would be superfluous to cite a greater number of such examples.
Several authors have even maintained that every injury of the
brain necessarily produces some derangement of the functions of
the mind.
On the other hand, much has been written and published, \vhich
would persuade us, that very considerable injuries of the brain
have not impaired the manifestations of the soul. Thus, the case
of one wounded in the head by a shot, is recorded, in whose brain
the ball remained, and \vho still lived for many years after the acci-
dent, without the least derangement of the intellectual faculties.
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 39
Mter death, the baH was found near the pineal gland.* A child
of eight years of age, had its skull broken by a kick of a horse,
and pieces of the cineritious substance, larger than a hen's egg, (as
it is expressed,) were lost ; this child, however, lvas restored to
health, and his intellectual faculties did not suffer.t A youth, fif-
teen years of age, received a blow on the head with a stone ; his
skull was fractured, his brain turned black, and issued out at the
wound ; in a fit of delirium, he pulled away the apparatus '\vhich
covered the wound, and with it a portion of brain, down to the cor-
pus callosum. This patient was paralytic, but his intelligence was
unimpaired. t A child of seven years of age, had a severe wound
inflicted on his head by falling from a horse, and the brain issued,
continually, by new excrescences, without doing any harm to the
intellectual faculties. Another child lost a great deal of his brain
by fungus, which continued to grow during four months. The
cineritious substance in the seat of the wound, was changed into
pus ; yet the child retained consciousness, and spoke intelligent-
ly till his death.§ A stag drove its horn through the orbit into the
head of a hunter, so that its point came out at the top of the head ;
notwithstanding this accident, the man walked to his home, at a
distance of t\VO leagues. A great number of similar cases have
been noted, partly as extraordinary occurrences, partly as proofs
of the brain not being the organ of the mind, and to show that the
intellectual faculties were independent of the organic structure.
There are numerous examples of dera!_lgemen·t in the intellectual
faculties, where not the least defect could be discovered in the
brain after death. In many cases of mental alienation, instead of
finding any cause in the brain, disease has been observed in very
different parts, as in the liver, bowels, &c. Pinel affirms that the
most careful dissections have taught nothing respecting the seat of
mental alienation, and that diseases of the brain afford no sufficient
*Memoires de l'Acad. de Chir. t.i. p.l34.
i Ibid. p. 126. t Ibid. p. 150.
~Van Swieten, t. i. p. 440.
40 PHRENOLOGY.
data to conclude that it is the exclusive organ of the intellectual
faculties.
In order to rectify these statements, so opposite in appearance;
we must con.sider two questions. Was it possible, until lately, to
estimate properly the nature of diseases and wounds of the brain ?
And was it possible, before our discoveries, to judge correctly of
the effects produced by them on the exhibition of intellect? Now,
it was evidently impossible to take an exact anatomical account of
an organ, not only unknown, but on the structure of \Yhich, notions
entirely opposite to the truth were entertained. :Moreover, au•
thority too often induces us to admit facts \vhich never existed.
JHorgagni, for instance, maintains that the brains of the proud and
stubborn, are hard and coriaceous ; and that those of the meek1
unsteady, and undecided, are soft. Theophilus Bonnet says, that
the brains of some, who happened to die in anger, or fury, were
hard, dry, and friable. According to Portal, the cerebral convo-
lutions in the insane are shallow; according to Dumas, the brain
in reasonable men is of a round figure ; this author avers, also,
that the character of any person is mild or hasty, that his ideas
are lively and rational, or heavy and confused, that he is an idiot or
a madman, according as his brain is more or less dark in its color,
more or less firm, &c. Such notions are certainly exaggerated;
yet can it be supposed that in madness and idiotism the organ of
the mind undergoes no kind of derangement ? It seems to me
necessary to inquire, into what changes may take place in the cere-
bral mass, generally, or in any of its particular parts j and, also, to
consider, whether derangements may not happen, though imper-
ceptible by any of the five external senses. If in one struck dead
by lightning, or killed by gout in the stomach, or hydrophobia, or
tetanus, no derangement in the nervous system be recognised, are
we, therefore, authorised to say that the nervous system has really
suffered no change whatever ?
Gall, and I, are of opinion, that all deTanged manifestations
of the mind result, immediately, from some change in the brain.
,\-Ve recognise the remote causes of cerebral diseases often con-
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 41
nected with derangements of the abdominal viscera ; but we say
that its immediate cause resides in the brain. Intestinal worms
occasion bad breath, cough, grinding of the teeth, tickling in the
nose, blindness, mental derangement, &c. ; but the bowels, which
are irritated, are no more the seat of insanity, than of the tickling of
the nose, the cough, or the blindness.
It is also true that very considerable injuries of the brain, some-
times disturb the mental manifestations very slightly ; and on the
contrary, that very' slight injuries of the brain are often accompa-
nied with the most violent symptoms. This, however, also hap-
pens in other parts of the body. Very large abscesses have been
sometimes found in the lungs, without having been accompanied
during life by any great derangement of the respiration ; but the
lungs are no less the organ of respiration on this account. Ossifi-
cations have sometimes occurred in the heart 'vithout any re-
markable disturbance of the circulation ; the heart, nevertheless,
is still the organ of circulation. It is evidently wrong, then, to as-
cribe to the wound or to its seat, that which must be attributed to
the particular constitution of the patient alone ; and thus it is that
we may conceive why no bad symptom should occasionally result
from a very considerable injury of the brain in patients but little
irritable; whilst, in others, very excitable, the slightest 'votmd wilJ
produce the most serious consequences; in the same way as one
individual being slightly wounded on a finger is seized with tetanus,
whilst another bears the ampntation of an arm or leg without the
least alteration of health.
It still remains for me to mention certain reported cases, in
which half of the brain is said to have been found completely des-
troyed by suppuration, while the intellectual faculties remained
unimpaired. Now it seems that in such a case, at least, the half
of the mental manifestations ought to have been annihilated.
Though these statements bear the stamp of incorrectness, let us
admit them as they are related ; let us even join to them, one
made by Gall} at V1enna. He atteuded a clergyman in the The-
6
42 PHRENOLOGY.
resian Institution, who ~or a long time had labored under a pustular
erysipelas, which appeared and disappeared from time to time ; by
degrees his left side became so weak~that he could not walk with-
out a stick ; and, finally, he was struck with apoplexy, and died in
a few hours. Three days before, he had delivered a lecture at
the school. On dissecting his head a part of the right hemisphere,
as large as the fist, \Vas found changed into a yellowish and grumous
substance. Gall was ignorant of the structure of the brain at that
time, hence, prevented from examining the case with perfect ac-
curacy. Let us now consider how such facts are to be explained,.
if the brain be in truth the organ of the mind.
In giving the histories of cerebral injuries, the duplicity of the
nervous system has very generally been forgotten. But one half
of the brain may be destroyed, and the various faculties still be
manifested by the other of ~he opposite side, just as one of the
optic, auditory, or olfactory nerves may be destroyed, without
being blind, deaf, or deprived of the smell. It is well known, too)
that the two hemispheres of the brain may be in very different
states of health. Tiedeman relates the case of one .Moser, who
was insane on one side, and observed his insanity with the other.
Gall attended a minister similarly afflicted ; for three years he
heard himself reproached and abused on his left side; with his
right he commonly appreciated the madness of his left.side ; some-
times, however, when feverish and unwell, he did not judge prop-
erly. Long after getting rid of this singular disorder, anger, or
a greater indulgence in wine than usual, induced a tendency to
~ relapse.
These occurrences seem more extraordinary than they are in
fact, for an opposite state of each hemisphere is not rare ; it exists
evidently in the hemiplegia : one side is paralysed, deprived of
all activity, the other continues to exert its functions,. and the pa-
tients, seem to have lost no faculty of the mind. One half of the
tongue is paralysed, one eye is blind, one ear is deaf; while taste
remains on one side) the opposite eye sees, and the other ear
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 43
hears. It sometimes happens that only one hemisphere of the
brain is inflamed; and in cases of megrim, the blood-vessels are
always fullest on the diseased side. On dissecting a child killed
by a violent blow on ·the right side of his head, the right cere-
bral hemisphere was found pale and bloodless; the left, on the
contrary, was injected and loaded with blood-an evident proof
that the hemispheres may be in opposite states. If this child had
lived after the blow, it is probable he would have been paralysed
on one side, and convulsed on the other. I once dissected the
brain of an insane female, and found a portion of the inferior large
apparatus of increase (thalamus) of the left side destroyed by sup-
puration, and the nervous bundles and convolutions connected with
it diminished in size; while on the right side, all the parts were
larger and in apparent health. These examples suffice to show
that the brain is a double organ, tha~ one half may be in a state
different from the other, and that every special faculty may be
manifested, so long as the organ on which it depends, is not utterly
destroyed on both sides.
Let us now examine whether or not it has hitherto been pos-
sible to judge correctly of deranged mental manifestations. No
one feels more sensibly the insufficiency of our actual knowledge
of human nature than he who studies the deranged manifesta-
tions of the mind. Pinel despairs of our ever knowing the
cause of mental derangements, on account of our ignorance of
healthy mental function. I shall here do no more than expose
the defects in the methods of the procedure adopted by our
predecessors.
We may observe, in all reports upon wounds of the head and
injuries of the brain, the following very loose expressions:-The
patient continued to walk, to eat, and drink; he had his conscious-
ness entire, viz., he knew all around him; he manifested some
memory and judgment; consequently, he possessed all the facul-
ties of the mind, none of them were disturbed. If, however, a
person of a mild and peaceable character, after being wounded on
the head by a stone, become quarrelsome and morose; and if
44 PHRENOLOGY.
another, whose life had ever been irreproachable, after a similar
accident, should feel an irresistible inclination to steal, it is evident
that, though these persons preserve consciousness, memory, judg~
ment, and imagination, we cannot thence infer, that the injuries
inflicted have produced no derangement of the mental functions.
Further, animals have consciousness, memory, and judgment; but
are they, therefore, men? If a man were by disease reduced, in
point of faculties, to the level of a dog, but still enjoyed the five
external senses, as well as some portion of memory and judgment,
\Vould he, therefore, have lost no characteristic faculty of humani-
ty? If partial idiots have perception, memory, and judgment, are
all the faculties of the mind manifested? If, in cases of partial
insanity, consciousness, memory, and judgment, be preserved, and
if imagination be even exalted, are all the faculties, therefore, un-
impaired? Finally, if individuals after a concussion of the brain,
or a fit of apoplexy, lose the memory of proper names, or of lan-
guages, though they preserve the functions of the five senses-
memory, and judgment, have they lost nothing whatever? Thus,
it is evident that the manifestations of one or more faculties of
the mind may be deranged or destroyed·, and the patient still be
incorreetly said to preserve all the powers which constitute an
intellectual and moral being. It follo-ws, also, that hitherto it has r
been impossible to judge accurately of the efrects of diseases and
injuries of the brain, because physiologists have considered the
general attributes of the understanding only, and been ignorant of
the special faculties. From all that has been said, it appears that
injuries of the brain must be investigated under the guidance of
sounder ideas of the healthy structure and function of that organ,
before safe and useful conclusions can be come at, in regard to
mental aberration. More details of this kind are given in my work
on Insanity.
II. Ilydrocephalus.
An objection has been founded on observations, and pretends
that although the brain was destroyed, dissolved, or disorganised
}'UNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 45
by water, the manifestations of the mind have continued umm-
paired.
Zacutus Lusitanus maintains that he saw a child live for three
years without brain. He believed that what he saw in the head
after death \Vas a double dura mater. Duverney says that he found
water only, and no brain, in a head which he dissected. Haller
and Soemmerring notice these statements without denying them.
Lauffer* speaks of a new-born child whose head contained nothing
but water, in which the brain that had once existed was dissolved.
This report received, as he maintains, very general accredence,
and the phenomenon was spoken of under the name of liquefac-
tion, or solution of the brain.
Anatomists \Vere accustomed to see the brain in its natural state
as a compact and .solid mass, and if they chanced not to find this
solidity of structure, considered the whole organ as dissolved or
annihilated. .Morgagni, however, reproaches Duverney with his
inadvertency, and assures us that in perfectly similar cases, he
always found the brain distended into a thin membrane; remarking
that the same circumstance had been observed before him by Tul-
pius, Vesalius aiM several other anatomists. In order to answer
the objection founded on the statements of Duverney and others,
we must consider three points: First, the place where the water
is found; then, the change which the cerebral mass has under-
gone ; ·and, lastly, the condition of the mental manifestations.
Sir Everard Home, in his Observations on the Functions of
the Brain,t seems to maintain that there is a certain quantity of
water in all brains. He even says: ' Facts appear to point out the
use of water in the ventricles in the brain, and they account
for the great variety which is met with in the form and extent of
the posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles, their size varying
according to the quantity of water which is necessary to keep up
the pressure required.' He says : ' pressure to a certain degree,
uniformly kept up, is necessary to the performance of the healthy
• Diss de Infante sine Cerebro nato. Halae, 1743.
t Philosoph. Transact. for the year 1814, part II. p. 417.
46 PHRENOLOGY.
functions of the cerebrum; and any increase or diminution of this
pressure puts a stop to them.' Before Sir E. Home, Acker~
man in Heidelberg published the same statements, and now Mr.
Magendie in Paris entertains similar notions concerning what he
calls Spinocerebral liquor.
It is certainly true that the cavities of the brain vary in size,
according to the quantity of the collected water. They are, how~
ever, very different in the natural state ·when quite free from fluid;
but the accumulation of water is incontestably the effect of disease;
for in animals which are killed, or in men who die a sudden and
violent death, no water is found in the ventricles of the brain.
Physicians are not all agreed on the seat of the \Vater in hydro~
cephalics. I speak here only of tlrose cases in which the skull is
distended beyond the natural size; for there are two varieties of
this disease, very important to be distinguished in the practice
of medicine; the one of these, however, does not belong to this
subject. Dr. Baillie, in his Morbid Anatomy, when treating of
Hydrocephalus, has not mentioned this difference. Sir Everard
Home, in his Observations on the Functions of the Brain, also con~
founds the acute and chronic hydrocephalus. He 'thinks that the
quantity of water may be much increased without material injury
to the functions of the brain, when the skull is not ossified; but
after that period even a few ounces in the lateral ventricles have
been known to produce as much undue pressure as to bring on
headache, general uneasiness, a sensation as if the head were too
large, loss of spirits, convulsions, loss of memory of recent events,
idiotism, insensibility, and death.' Now all these symptoms which
he here relates, are of an acute nature, and ought to be distin-
guished from those of the chronic hydrocephalus.
In the hydrocephali, which distend the skull to a larger size than
is natural, the water is said to be accumulated either in the cavities
of the brain, or between the membranes, or between the dura mater
and the skull. "Vhile the greater number of practitioners consider
the two latter varieties as the most common, all physicians admit
the three kinds. Professor 'Valter, at Berlin, has maintained pub~
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 47
licly that in sixteen hydrocephalic persons, he fmmd the water ex-
ternal to the brain. Pinel* says, that in hydrocephalus the water
is contained between the skulJ and the dura mater, or between the
membranes, and only occasionalJy in the cavities of the brain.
Odier fancies that the chronic hydrocephalus is ahvays produced
m the windings of the pia mater, and he distinguishes it from the
acute, which, in his opinion, is formed only by an accumulation
in the ventricles; he gives a detailed description of the acute hy-
drocephalus calling it internal, in opposition to the hydrocephalus,
of which I here speak, and which he sty!es external. Petit, on
the contrary, maintains that in all greatly distended hydrocephalic
heads, he found the water in the ventricles, and never between the
membranes, or the dura mater and skull. Gall and I formerly
maintained, that in large hydrocephalic skulls the liquid always
occupied the cavities of the brain; recent observations, however,
have convinced me that in some, even of a large size, the water
may be contained between the brain and the dura mater. In my
French work, entitled 'Observations sur Ia Phrenologic,' art.
Hydrocephalus, I speak of a child who died at the age of eighteen
months, whose body I opened along with Dr. Roberton at Paris;
we found two pounds and a half of water between the arachnoid
coat and the dura mater, whilst the brain lay in the base of the
skull covered with a thick pseudo-membrane. The child, though
always weakly, manifested a common share of mental functions.
Since that time, I have dissected, with .1\Ir. Breshet at Paris, t\vo
new-born children, whose brains were very small, defective, and
only developed contiguous to the medulla oblongata and cerebel-
lum, while the rest of the skulls, well enough formed, were filled
with water. The most remarkable case of hydrocephalus I have
seen, was shown to me by .1\Ir. Keys, surgeon of Guy's Hospital,
in London, on my visit to that metropolis in 1825. James Cardi-
nal, whose portrait I have given, died at the age of thirty years,
a few days before my arrival. The two gentlemen mentioned
above, had opened the head, and found about nine pints of water
* Loc cit. p. 475.
48 PHRENOLOGY.
between the dura mater and the brain, which was placed at the
bottom of the skull, and one pint in the lateral ventricles. In·
formed of my being in London, they were so kind as to allow
me to examine, with them, this extraordinary head. An open-
ing under the posterior part of the falx established a communi-
cation between the great cavities of the hemispheres and the
space between the brain and the dura mater. The corpus callo-
sum appeared wanting, but it was only split all along in the raphe,
or middle line; the masses composing it evidently existed on both
sides. The lateral ventricles were particularly distended in the
posterior lobes; several convolutions of the right side were quite
unfolded, whilst those of the left presented the usual appearance.
The convolutions in the middle line of the head above the cor-
pus callosum, which are commonly opposed with the falciform
process of the dura mater between them, were raised by the liquid,
and formed part of the general surface. The appearance of the
anterior and middle lobes scarcely differed from that of the healthy
brain : the olfactory nerves were large, those of sight small, and
the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina very small. The
cerebellum was flattened, and its cineritious substance of a very
dark hue. The whole of the cerebral mass was soft, and weighed
two pounds fourteen ounces and a half.
Let us now examine what change the brain undergoes in drop-
sy of its cavities. Many anatomists have admitted that the brain
in common hydrocephalus was distended like a bladder; but no
one knew how this took place; and it seemed inconceivable that
a delicate and medullary body, like the brain, could be brought
to such thinness by distention, without tearing. "'\Valter, Acker-
mann, and many others, in admitting the existence of th!3 cere-
bral mass in hydrocephalic persons, still maintain that it is disor-
ganised. Gall and I on the other hand, hold, that the cerebral
substance is not disorganised, and we establish our opinion by
anatomical and physiological proofs.
Anatomy shows that the fibres of the brain are vertical or per-
pendicular to the cavities, and that each convolution consists of two
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 49
layers, but closely applied to each other. If, therefore, water
be accumulated in the ventricles, so as to act against the con-
volutions placed around them, it gradually separates the two lay-
ers whose natural position is vertical, and makes them assume a
horizontal direction. In this manner, the convolutions, in large
hydrocephalic skulls, are entirely unfolded, and present the
smooth surface of a membranous expansion, which was consid-
ered by Zacutus Lusitanus as a second dura mater. If such
hydrocephalic heads have not been shaken, and the dissection
been made with due caution, the water is limpid; but if they
have been carried from place to place, and rudely handled, it is
not astonishing that the water should become turbid, and the brain
present something of a dissolved or eroded appearance.
1Ve establish our assertions, also, by physiology. If the brain
be the organ of the mind, and be destroyed in hydroeephalic per-
sons, they must, necessarily, be incapable of manifesting any
mental faculty. One or other of the two following opinions must
be entertained : either the brain is the organ of the soul, and not
destroyed in such as, affected with hydrocephalus, manifest intel-
lectual faculties; or, the brain is not the organ of the soul; because
those whose brain is disorganised, exhibit propensities, sentiments,
and intellectual faculties.
Walter, of Berlin, imagining the brain in hydrocephalus to be
disorganised, maintained, that in this disease all the intellectual
faculties were annihilated. This, however, is contrary to fact;
there are many instances in which all, or most of the faculties,
were exhibited, although the disease was very considerable. Tul-
pius had seen a hydrocephalic person endowed with understanding,
and therefore inferred that the structure of the brain must differ
from what is commonly supposed. Camper, and many other an-
atomists, speak with amazement of similar cases.
For the sake of adducing still stronger proofs of the brain's being
exclusively the organ of the soul, and of refuting at the same time,
those \vho deny intellectual faculties to the affected with hydroce-
phalus, I shall quote several cases. in point. Gall and I observed
7
50 PHRENOLOGY.
for some years a woman with considerable dropsy of the brain, wbo
manifested that share of understanding usually possessed by women
of her class. She died at fifty-four years of age of inflammation of
the intestinal canal. "'\Ve found the cavities of the brain containing
four pounds of limpid water. We once saw a man of learning,
whose skull was much larger than natural, particularly in the ante-
rior and superior part of the forehead. To judge from its size,
there must have been from three to four pounds of water in the
c:erebral cavities ; yet he possessed very extensive knowledge.
The only inconvenience which resulted from his peculiar state was,
that he often fell suddenly asleep in the midst of the most interest-
ing conversation, at table, at the theatre, and elsewhere. At Co-
penhagen, we saw a girl thirteen years of age, whose head measur-
ed twenty-five inches in circumference, nineteen inches from one
ear to the other, and as much from the root of the nose to the
' neck ; it must have contained fi·om ten to thirteen pounds of water;
although her legs were almost paralytic, and she had to be carried
from one place to another, yet she was genteel in her manners, and
made as much progress as the other girls at school. At Augs-
burgh, we met with a girl, whose head, at thirteen years, resem-
bled in shape and size that of the woman of fifty-four years mention-
ed above ; she was little, but walked well, and spoke intelligently.
Another female, similarly affected, eleven years of age, \vas shown
to us at Marbourgh; and at Bruchsal, we found a hydrocephalic
girl fourteen years old, who kept her bed constantly; she, although
certainly too childish for her age, with understanding enough,
talked on all that interested her. Dr. Tobias, of Leipzic, showed
us a hydroceprialic head of an extraordinary size. The person
had lived thirty-six years, and possessed common understanding ;
this, however, he lost twelve months before his death, which was
caused by a violent fit of anger. Messrs. Laumeyer and Nueffer,
at Fribourg, in Brisgau, preserved the skeleton of a girl aged
~even years, whose skull contained seventy ounces of water, and
who, nevertheless, frequently reminded others of events and cir-
<eumstances she had heard read from the papers some time before..
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 51
Dr. Maler, of Carlsruhe, related to us the history of one affected
with hydrocephalus, vvho died at twenty years of age, and whose
.
skull contained above ten pouuds of water. This individual dis-
played ordinary understanding. 1Vhen I, in 1814, first saw James
Cardinal in London, his head measured thirty·three inches in cir-
-cumference, twenty-four and a half from one ear to the other, and
twenty-three and a half from the root of the nose to the nape of
the neck. Yet, this lad, then nineteen years of age, manifested
all the feelings and intellectual faculties. He could also read and
write tolerably well. I examined a man with a still larger head at
Musselburgh, near Edinburgh, in Scotland, who had showed tol-
erably great mental functions. Four other very considerable hy-
-drocephalic heads, exhibiting mental functions, were shown to me
in London. Several came within my knowledge and inspection
in Paris. These, and many similar examples prove, that hydroce-
phalic patients are not always entirely destitute of the affective and
~ntellectual faculties.
Such phenomena are easily explained by those who are acquaint-
€d with the structure of the convolutions of the brain. They
know that even in hydrocephalus of a large size, the brain is not
·disorganized, but that it is either placed on the bottom of the
skull, or that the direction of its fibres has been changed from
vertical to horizontal. Now the exhibition of the faculties does
not depend essentially on that vertical, horizontal, or inclined
position of the cerebral fibres. They may even be lengthened
without the internal organization of the brain being thereby des-
troyed. The optic nerve is.sometimes elongated by an excrescence
pushing the eyeball out of the orbit, without loss of sight ensuing.
All the arguments, then, which have been founded on hydrocepha-
lus, to prove the brain not the exclusive organ of the soul, fall to
the ground.
It is sufficiently well known that Gall and I were the first to
-demonstrate the structure, which permits so wonderful a change
as that which happens in hydrocephalus, to occur without total
<disorganization of the brain. It is therefore rather astonishing, that
52 PHRENOLOGY.
some late writers speak of the facts, our discovery, as having been
perfectly familiar to them for a long time past. Sir Everard
Home, after relating the history of a boy affected with water in
the brain, whose head measured thirty-three inches in circumfer-
ence, and whose faculties were unimpaired, proceeds to say :
' The preceding facts explain, satisfactorily, that the cerebrum is
made up of thin convolutions of medullary and cortical substances,
surrounding the two lateral ventricles which are unfolded, when the
cavities of those ventricles are enlarged ; and in this unfolded state
the functions belonging to this part of the organ can be carried
on.' Now, our memoir, announcing this truth, was presented to
the National Institute of France, in .March, lSOS, and was, by
their report in the same year, made universally known. Sir Ev-
erard Home's paper, upon this subject, was read to the Royal So-
ciety in .!\lay, 1814 ; six years afrer our discovery was before
every learned society in Europe. I may also mention, that before
Sir Everard Home read his paper, I had demonstrated the struc-
ture of the brain in the Medico-Chirurgical Society in London.
Will he maintain that he never heard our discovery spoken of,
even in the very vague manner in which he has related it?
III. Ossified Brains.
Among other phenomena, \vhich, to the superficial observer,
seem calculated to refute the principle, that the brain is exc1usively
the organ of the mind, are the petrified or ossified brains, which, it
has been asserted, have not hindered the mind from being manifest-
ed. Instead of examining the fact of occurrence, om adversaries,
in their eagerness to overturn our opinions, ha,·e at once admitted
the existence of thes~ petrified brains, because they seem decisive.
Gall and I saw bony masses at Vienna, Leipsic, Amsterdam,
Cologne, and Paris, which \Vere always shown to us in triumph as
ossified brains, and complete refutations of our position : the brain
is the organ of the affective and intellectual faculties. Thomas
Bartholin, in 1660, was the first to speak of an ossified brain. An
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 53
ox, slaughtered in 1670, in the Benedictine monastery of St.
Just~ne, near Padua, according to the story of the monk, who was
cook, had a brain as hard as marble. Duverney exhibited such a
pretendedly ossified brain to the Academy of Sciences, in 1703.
.Moreschi, professor of Anatomy at Bologna, and Dr. Giro,* say
they examined at Rovigo a similarly ossified brain. They cut it
horizontally almost on the level with the corpus callosum, to ex-
amine the interior parts ; and though the color of the circumfer-
ence was different from that of the centre, they could not distin-
guish the cavities, the thalami, the corpora striata, or any vestige
of the third and fourth ventricles, of the corpora quadrigemina,
or of the pineal gland. The cerebellum presented only parallel
transverse ridges. The basis of this supposed brain was only
uneven, but exhibited no traces of origins of nerve. The ox,
moreover, manifested the same inclinations as every other ox with
a sound brain, and was eight years old when killed. Dumas
asserts that these facts completely refute our doctrine of· the cer-
ebral organs.
The erroneous opinions relative to ossified brains are still very
far from being abandoned, though Vallisneri has shown their falsity
and untenableness.
The number of these ossified masses which \Ve ourselves have
seen, and the number of which Vallisneri speaks, seem to prove
that they occur frequently. Let us, in the first place, see what
Vallisneri thinks of them. He shows t that the notion of such a thing
as a petrification of the brain took its rise only from the ignorance ot
a Benedictine friar ; he states that he has seen the pretended cere-
bral petrifaction spoken of by the monk, and says, that it is no
brain ; he farther proves that these masses are merely bony ex-
crescences of the skull. He has therefore made various drawings
of the brain of an ox, to show that there is no analogy between
the protuberances observable on these excrescences and the convo-
lutions of the brain. He shows that an excrescence in his own
* Gazette de Sante. Paris, Nov. 111 1809. No. XXXII.
Opere Physico-Mediche. Venezia, 1733. t. i. Art. Cervello Impetrito.
54 PHRENOLOGY.
possession had a much stronger resemblance to the brain of an ox,
than that which Duverney had caused to be drawn. He conse·
quently reproaches Duverney with his ignorance in thinking that
he and Bartholin had alone observed this phenomenon, and ex-
presses the greatest amazement that the Academy of Sciences
should have been deceived by that which Duverney presented as
an ossified brain. He, moreover, reproaches Duverney for having
neglected to open and examine the interior parts, in order to see
that there was no vestige of cavities, of corpora striata, or of
thalami ; and blames his credulity in supporting his assertion only
by the story of a butcher.
To the observations of Vallisneri, it may be added, that the
part on the surface, called pineal gland by Duverney, is much
larger than the pineal gland of an ox; its form is also quite differ·
ent; and, finally, it is situated on the surface, not interiorly, as
is the case in nature. In the same manner the part which he
considers as a cerebellum with its vermiform process, resem·
bles the natural cerebellum in nowise ; and Vallisneri justly re·
marks that Duverney would have found the brain as well as the
bony excrescence, had he himself opened the head ; he even
states a case in point of a butcher of .Modena, who, by proceed·
ing more carefully, found both a brain and a bony excrescence of
the skull.
Messrs. Giro and Moreschi, maintain that they saw the centrum
ovale of Vieussens in the bony excrescence which they possess.
This error is easily explained: for, as the brain, when cut hori·
zontally, presents a large white surface, called by Vieussens cen·
trum ovale, so these bony excrescences when sawed in any direction
whatever, will also present a white surface like ivory, and this they
have considered as a centrum ovale. But why have these gentle·
men not found the ventricles, the thalami, the corpora striata, the
tuberr.ula quadrigemina, &c.? That, however, which is most in·
conceivable is, that they found no vestige of nerves, although the
ox had preserved not only its intellectual faculties, but also its five
external senses! Moreover, the cerebellum of the ossified brain,
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN.. 55
of l\Ioreschi and Giro, presents transver·se and parallel rings and
ridges, but the natural figure of the cerebellum of an ox is altogether
different.
Dr. Simson* gives an account and the drawing of the ossified
brain of a cow killed at Fettercairn, a village in the county of
Angus, in Scotland. He allows that this brain was much larger
than the natural one; that the cerebellum, in particular, was six
times bigger than usual; that it did not resemble the brain of an ox
in shape; that the cerebellum was far above its ordinary level, and
much misshapen; he adds that one small end was quite rough, and
might be suspected of having been joined to, and broken ofr from
the skull. Dr. Simson, however, thought it was the brain ossified,
because the butcher found it in the skull; and because he to whom
the cow belonged, said it was such. \Ve may add that all those
who looked upon it, saw it in the same light.
Haller t observed that the ossified brain, which Bartholin speaks
of, was only a bony excrescence. Soemmerring advances the
same opinion as ourselves, viz., that all ossified brains, as they
are called, are nothing more than bony excrescences, which spring
from the internal surface of the skull, and gradually push the brain
from its place without destroying its structure. These excrescences
are sometimes seen arising from the external as well as from the
internal surface of the skull; sometimes, also, from both. \Ye saw
a specimen of the latter kind at Goettingen, which Peter Frank
had presented to the university; and in the anatomical collection
of the medical school at Paris, there is a skull with a bony mass
prou·uding both without and within. The excrescences are some-
times spongy, soft, and smooth; but more usually solid, hard, and
uneven, or gibbous, like stalactites or cauliflowers. These gib-
bosities have been mistaken by superficial observers for convolu-
tions of the brain; but they really present nothing analogous to
such as are found in nature. In every one of them the place of
* Jn an inquiry how far the vital and animal actions are dependent on the
brain. Edinburgh, 1752.
t Phy. t. iv. p. 356.
56 PHRENOLOGY.
adhesion to the surface of the skull by a root larger or smaller,
may be distinguished, and the whole mass is frequently larger than
a healthy ox's brain. The half of such a fancied petrified brain,
shown to us by Professor Bonn, of Amsterdam, was larger than a
whole natural brain.
As to the influence of these bony excrescences upon the cere-
bral functions, it is certain, that notwithstanding their existence,
men and animals can live for many years, and manifest various
faculties. It is, however, improbable that the faculties suffer no
derangement from their presence ; as in all examples, except that
cited by Duverney, which he himself did not see, the same symp-
toms have been remarked which take ])lace when the brain is com-
pressed from any other cause. The cow, of which Dr. Simson
speaks, ate and drank, saw and heard, as well as another animal of
the kind, but she had a difficulty of breathing, which made her
snort in her sleep ; and instead of getting flesh, when she was fed
to be slaughtered, she rather pined away and became leaner. The
pressure in such cases does the less harm, because the excrescence
grows very slowly. Although I have not yet had an opportunity
of observing one, I think it very probable that the brain is not
compressed in proportion as the hony excrescence increases, but
that the cavities of the skull become larger by degrees, just as
happens in dropsy of the brain. "'\-Vhatever then has been said re-
garding ossified brains, must be attributed to ignorance of anatomy
and physiology. Some share of the blame may also attach to in-
accurate observations, and excessive love of the marvellous. I
repeat here what Gall and I have always said, that if ever a brain
be ossified, and the animal preserve its intellectual faculties, we
shall be the first to declare our doctrine of the fu'nctions of the
brain a purely chimerical fabrication.
IV. JJ[etaphysicians.
Metaphysicians are pleased to say that the mind acts indepen-
dently of organization, and adduce, in support of their opinion, the
SIZE OF THE BRAIN. 57
fact of the mind's having no consciousness of the organic condi-
tions which Phrenology assigns as necessary to its manifestation.
It is allowed, that the mind does not know, by intuition, that its
operations are performed by means of the cerebral organization ;
but it is a general truth that the mind requires to observe the in-
struments of its actions, in order to know them. Voluntary motion
is impossible without nerves and muscles, but the mind in itself has
no consciousness of the existence of these organs. In the same
way the external senses cannot exist without the respective nerves
of each; the mind cannot see without eyes, nor hear without ears,
but it becomes aequainted with these nervous apparatuses or in-
struments only by observation. In precisely the same manner it is,
that the mind knows the instruments of its affective and intellectual
operations : by observation alone. Thus, the arguments of the
metaphysicians against the dependence of the mental functions on
the brain are unsound, and leave the first principle of Phrenology:
the brain is the organ of the mind, in its original integrity.
CHAPTER II.
Of the absolute Size of the Brain.
THE greater number of natural philosophers, convinced that the
brain is the organ of understanding, have concluded that its func-
tions must be proportionate to its size. The brain of man was
found to be larger than that of the majority of tame animals,
and, without a more strict examination of living beings, man's
superiority was at once attributed to the greater absolute size
of his brain; Erasistratus, Aristotle, Pliny, Galen, Portal,* and
* Anatomie Medicale, t. iv. p. 30.
8
58 PHRENOLOGY.
others, have therefore said, that man has the largest brain of all
,....\ animals. Modern discoveries, however, have shown that whales
and elephants l~ave larger brains than man ; and those who measure
the faculties of animal life according to the absolute size of the
brain, are thereby proved to be in error ; for whatever the tmuer-
standing of the elephant may be, and with whatever justice the
whale be declared king of the ocean, no one will attribute either to
the one or to the other the superior faculties "\vhich constitute the
distinguis~1ing character of man. Besides, ·when we study nature
more closely, we find the brain in the monkey and dog smaller
than in tbe ox, ass, and hog, yet the former approach much nearer
to man in intellectual endowments than the latter. Moreover, many
animals, as the wolf, tiger, sheep, and roe, may be ranged in the
same class, the size of their brain alone considered ; yet their dis-
positions are ,·ery different, and often opposite. It is tbe same with
the sparrow-hawk, cock, and pigeon. Finally, we see that very
small brains produce the most surprising effects. Observe the
honey-bee and the ant, contemplate the economy of their d\vellings,
their local memory, the care they take of their :progeny, their anger
and revenge, and their natural language ! Is there anything more
curious than the conic hole of the pyrmicoleon, or the web of the
spider ? Do we not obserYe the jealousy of the stag in the cock ;
the propensity to fight of the wild boar in the red-breast, in the
wren, &c. ? .And if the absolute size of the cerebral mass v;ere a
sufficient measure of the affective and the intellectual faculties,
ought not all animals, which ha-re the same quantity of brain, to
manifest absolutely the same faculties ? It would then be inexpli-
cable why one tribe of animals li\'eS in society, another in solitude ;
why one takes care of its progeny, and another does not ; why one
constructs, another sings, &c. Nay, more than this, I may state
that it is not possible even to measure the faculties in individuals
of the same kind according to the absolute size of the brain. Such
views show that we must search for another measure of the facul-
ties of the mind than the absolute size of its organ.
SIZE OF THE BRAIN. 59
CH APTER III.
Of the S ize of the Brain compm·ed with that of the Body, and
with that of the Ne1·ves.
T HE brain of the elephant and whale is greater than that of man,
out their bodies are also much largei·. This vimv seemed to prove
the superiority of the human brain, and anatomists now said not
that man had absolutely the largest brain, but that he had the larg-
est brain in propo1·tion to his body. All nerves being considered
as prolongations of the cerebral mass and proportionate to the
body, the moral and intellectual superiority of man was naturally
supposed to be indicated by the size of the brain, compared with
that of the body. A large body will require the grea.ter part of
the brain and nervous system to be employed in its functions, and
there will then rern'J.in a ~mall portion for the exhibition of superior
faculties.
T he brains of reptiles and fishes are very small in proportion to
their bodies. A crocodile of twelve, a serpent of eighteen feet,
and a turtle of a couple of cwts., have brains that scarcely weigh
one drachm each. There are insects in which the nerve of a sin-
gle sense exceeds the size of their brain. The brain of the great
eagle of the Alps (Lremmergeyer) is almost as small as that of the
raven, and the turkey-cock has no greater mass of brain than the
parrot or crow. These facts afforded the inference that the facul-
ties are in the ratio of the brain to the body.
This conclusion, however, was too hastily drawn, and was not
grounded upon a sufficient number of observations ; "\Vnsberg,
Soemmerring, Blumenbach, Cuvier, and other anatomists, on
putting the principle to the test, found that the sparrow, canary-
bird, linnet, red-breast, bulfinch, and several species of monkeys,
have in proportion to their bodies more brain than man. The
intellectual faculties of these animals ought, therefore, to surpass
60 PHRE~OLOGY .
:hose of man ; and the rat and the mouse ought to have more
understanding than the horse, stag, dog, and elephant, because
the former, proportionately to their bodies, have a more consid-
erable quantity of brain. 'Vere such a principle true, there should
exist no difference in the faculties of different species of animals,
whose brains bear a like relative proportion to their bodies. More-
over, it would be \·ery difficult to determine the exact ratio of the
brain to the body and to the nerves in all cases. The proportions
stated by Cuvier for man are evidently incorrect. In adults, he
says, it is as one to thirty-fi,·e. Our observations lead us to con-
clude, that the proportion of one to forty, or fifty, or even sixty,
is more general. For., suppose a grown-up man to weigh only a
hundred and twenty, and his brain from t\VO to three pounds, the
proportion fixed by Cuvier will be inexact. Besides, this anato-
mist does not say how he separated the brain from its connexions ;
what portions of the nerves and membranes he left; whether the
blood-vessels were empty or full ; nor the age of the subjects of
his comparisons.
Haller remarked that children had a larger brain than adults in
proportion to their body, and consequently that, if faculties were
measurable by the proportionate size of the brain, they ought to
excel grown up persons in understanding. It may, however, be
replied, that the brain of children is not perfectly de,·eloped, and
is, therefore, unfit to manifest the intellectual faculties. Haller
farther observed, and Soemmerring and Cuvier repeat after him,
that it is very difficult to determine the proportion of the brain to
the body, because the body grows lean or fat, and augments or
diminishes by half its weight, while the brain undergoes no change. 4
The latter part of this proposition is refuted by experience ; for
though no adipose substance be deposited in the brain more than
in the lungs, it still participates in the nutrition of the body as well
as every other organic part, and, therefore, its convolutions are
more plump and more closely packed together, and the whole
brain is heavier in well-nourished men and animals, in the flower
of yonth and vigor, than in the old, lean, and emaciated, or in
SIZE OF THE BRAIS. 61
those \vho have died of hunger or of lingering diseases. Gall and
I have given some attention to this point. The results of our ob-
servations are as I have just stated them. Haller's remarks would
not suffice, therefore, to refute the idea of estimating the mental
faculties according to the proportionate size of the brain.
\Vrisberg and Soemmerring thought they might proceed in a
surer way, if they determined the faculties according to the propor-
tion betw-ixt the brain and the nerves : for these, they saw, were
much more considerable in ~any animals than in man. But nei-
ther is the ratio in this cac;e universal. The seal, in proportion to
its nerves, has a larger brain than the house-dog, and the porpoise
more than the ourang-outang ; yet we do not percei,,e a corres-
ponding ratio in the faculties of these animals.
Comparisons of the brain with the spinal marrow, instituted by
Soemmerring, Ebel, and Cuvier,* are not more \'aluable or sat-
isfactory than the others I have mentioned. Cuvier himself quotes
exceptions; in the porpoise, for instance. .Mr. de Blanville, too,
is wrong in saying that the size of the occipital hole of the skull
indicates the proportion of the spinal marrow to the brain. The
occipital hole bears relation to the medulla oblongata, and by no
means to the spinal marrow. Besides, there is no fixed propor-
tion between the spinal marrow, nor even the occipital hole, and
the brain; this may be large, and the occipital hole and the spinal
marrO\v small, dr vice 'Versa; a case which happens not only in
different species of animals, but even in different individuals of the
same species. Neither could this proportion, did it exist, be
known during life. It would, consequently, be useless in anthro-
pological investigations.
• Le~ons d' Anatomie comparee, t, ii. p. 150.
62 PHRE.NOLOGY.
CHAPTER IV.
Of the Facial .!lngle of Camper: of the Occipital .!lngle of Dau-
benton; and the Size of the Brain in proportion to the Face
and Neck.
IN order to measure the extent of the brain and, as he imagined,
the corresponding energy of the intellectual faculties, Camper
drew a line touching the most prominent part of the forehead and
the upper lip, and another from the orifice of the external ear to
the end of the upper front teeth, and measuring the angle at the
intersection of the two lines, he concluded, that the more it was
obtuse, the higher were the inteUectual faculties, and the more
acute the angle, the more stupid the individual. Lavater, Cuvier,
Ricl1erand, and a great number of anatomists :md physiologists,
approve of th1s facial angle, as it is called. Lavater's well-known
progressive scale of heads, from the frog to the Apollo Belvidere,
was composed from the idea it gave. Cuvier also arranged sev-
eral tables, indicative of the facial angles of men and difrerent
animals ; he fixed that of Europeans at ninety degrees in infancy,
at eighty-five in an adult, and in an old decrepit man as fifty de-
grees. This manner, however, of measuring the intellectual facul-
ties is not more correct than those I have already mentioned.
The facial angle applies only to the parts of the brain situated in
the forehead, and is inapplicable to all the lateral and posterior
organs: hence the facial angle could even, if ·there were no other
objection, indicate those faculties only, whose organs constitute the
forehead. Besides, it is quite impossible to determine, in a gen-
eral way, the proportion of the forehead to the face. In new-
born children the forehead is flat ; but from three months to eight
or ten years of age, it is ordinarily prominent, and forms a more
obtuse angle than at birth, or in the adult. Hence Cuvier errs
in saying that the facial angle decreases in proportion as the child
advances in age. Even if this were the fact, it would only be
SIZE OF THE BRAIN. 63
possible to say that the facial angle will be of so many degrees in
grown-up and in old persons, \Vhen its amount in infancy is known.
But it is utterly impossible to draw general conclusions from indi-
vidual cases, and, among a hundred persons, no two have the
facial angle alike. Yet, Cuvier would have us believe, that all
children, all grown-up, and all old Europeans, ought to have
precisely the same proportion of brain to the face. Moreover,
this facial angle is useless, when we come to creatures lower in
the scale than man; for Blumenbach has observed that three-
fourths of all known animals have nearly the same facial angle, and
are, nevertheless, endowed with very different and opposite pro-
pensities. Finally, Cuvier himself has remarked that the brain is
not placed close to the external forehead in all animals, but that in
a great number the two plates of the skull being separated, the
brain lies at a considerable depth beneath. This occurs not only
among the lower animals, but also in the aged of the human kind,
between the two plates of whose skulls there is often a considerable
space. In hogs, the brain lies one inch, and in the elephant thir-
teen inches deeper than is indicated by the external table of the
skull. Cuvier, to overcome this obstacle to precise observation,
draws the tangent or vertical line from the internal plate. In many
animals, as in some varieties of the cat tribes and of the rodentia,
the brain inclines so much downwards behind and under the fron-
tal sinus, that it becomes impossible to draw a facial angle from
the most prominent point of the forehead.
The facial angle is, moreover, a very imperfect means of estima-
ting the faculties of man. We have seen negroes with extremely
prominent jaw-bones, manifest great intellectual faculties, because
their foreheads were large. Their facial angle, however, would
have made them inferior to many stupid Europeans, whose fore-
heads are small, but whose jaws project little. From all these
considerations it follows, that the faeial angle, as a means of meas-
i.lring the moral sentiments and inte1lectual faculties, is perfectly
useless.
Daubenton's occipital angle is formed by a horizontal line, drawn
64 PHRENOLOGY.
from the floor of the orbit, to the posterior edge of the occipital
foramen, and a vertical line cutting this and passing between the
condyles over the surface of the occiput. Now this occipital
angle according to the observation of Blumenbach, measures from
eighty to ninety degrees in all animals, and, consequently, does
not differ proportionately to their varied faculties. The occipital
angle \Yould also indicate the developement of the occiput only, and
not of the lateral and superior parts of the brain ; this alone is suf·
ficient to prove its inutility.
Some physiologists, as Soemmerring and Cuvier, have compared
the size of the brain in general \Vith the state of the face ; and, ac-
cording to them, animals are stupid as the face is large in propor-
tion to the brain. Cuvier calls the senses of smell and taste whose
apparatus occupies a principal part of the face, the most brutish
functions. Cuvier sa\VS the skull vertically and longitudinally, in
order to compare with ease, the area of the cerebral cavity with
the size of the face.
Ancient artists appear to have observed a certain proportion be-
tween the forehead and the face ; their statues of high-priests,
sacrificators, demi-gods, gods, and especially of Jupiter, have large,
high, and vaulted foreheads. The superiority, however, of the
intellectual faculties, does not result from the proportion of the
forehead to the face, but from the developement of the forehead it-
self. There have been great men with large faces, and very pro·
minent jaw-bones. Leo X., J\Iontaigne, Leibnitz, Haller, 1\lira-
beau, &c., had large faces and very considerable brains. Bossuet,
Voltaire, and Kant, had, on the contrary, small faces and large
brains. Soemmerring errs, also, in saying that the skulls of wo·
men are larger in proportion to their face, than those of men. The
idea, too, is evidently incorrect as regards many animals ; for the
face of the sloth and seal is to their brain, smaller than that of the
stag, horse, and ox ; yet no one will maintain that the former ani-
mals excel the latter in intellectual faculties. Finally, the notion
is inapplicable to birds, as Cuvier himself allows.
"Plato in ancient times, and Bichat and Richerand in our days, have
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. 65
maintained that there is a proportion between the intellectual facul-
ties and the length of the neck. According to them, the intellect-
ual faculties are weaker the longer the neck is, because the brain
is more removed from the heart, and consequently is less excited
by the blood. This assertion is too evidently opposed to all natural
history and physiology, to render any demonstration of its false-
hood necessary.
CHAPTER V.
On the Cerebral Parts compared with one another.
THE cerebral parts have also been compared with each other
for the purpose of detecting their functions. Cuvier says* that it !s
possible to determine the exact proportion of the cerebellum to the
brain, because health and disease produce no change upon the
cerebral mass, and he has composed several tables illustrative of
this point. He finds the proportion of the cerebellum to the brain,
to be in man as one to nine ; in the sai"miri as one to fourteen ;
in the ox as one to nine, &c. N O\V, even these few examples
prove that the intellectual faculties cannot be measured by the pro-
portion which the cerebellum bears to the brain ; for if, according
to the opinion of :Malacarne, the cerebellum were the organ of un-
derstanding, the sai"miri ought to have more intellect than man ; if
the brain be the organ of the feelings and intellectual faculties,
which is our doctrine, the sai"mira ought to have less of these than
the ox, and the ox be upon a par with the human kind.
It does not appear necessary that the brain, or its parts, should
always participate in the healthy and diseased states of the rest of
the body ; for, why should not that happen with the cerebral parts,
which occurs in other organs ? every organ of sense, and every
viscus may fall separately into disease, and the rest of the body
" Loc. cit. p. 152.
9
66 PHRENOLOGY.
remain in health. In the same way, each cerebral pa1t may be.
diseased individually. Even in admitting that the whole brain is.
equally influenced by the healthy or diseased state of the body, it
may still be asked, whether there be any determinate proportion
between the brain and the cerebellum, and any between the par-
ticular parts of the brain ? The answer must be affirmative in one
respect, and negative in another. The constituent parts of every
orgart are porportionate to each other, as the cineritious and white
substances, the different apparatuses of increase, the ganglia, and
the number of fibres which spring out of them; but the different
cerebral systems, constituting the particular organs which manifest
determinate faculties, are in no constant proportion to each other.
There are large brains joined to small cerebella, and vice versa.
The cerebellum in youth is smaller in proportion to the brain, than
It IS 111 mature years. Sometimes one, sometimes another part of
the brain, sometimes the forehead, sometimes the posterior part is
most developed. The proportions of the particular cerebral parts
to each other are the more varied, the more numerous they are.
Hence, the almost infinite variety of size and form of head observ-
able in the human species. Soemmerring, therefore, errs in say-
ing that in sound brains, the position and mutual connexion of all
the cerebral parts are invariable, and that no considerable difference
in form and size is to be seen among the brains of different men.
From the preceding considerations, it follows, that the faculties
of the mind cannot be determined, either from the form and size of
the whole head, or from comparisons of one part with another.
Another series of observations, then, is necessary in order to point
out the relations between the mind and the brain. I finish this.
section by stating that the details of the three preceding sections,
have been greatly elaborated and cleared up, whilst Gall and I lived
together in Paris, and that their elucidation must be considered as
the result of our common exertions and reflections. The reader
may perceive the truth of this fact, in comparing the words of the
hearers of Gall, in 1807 and later, to 1810, with our own pub-
lications.
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. 67
SECTION IV.
The Brain is an agg)·egate of Organs.
THE brain is exclusively the organ of the manifestations of the
mind ; but it remains for us to investigate, whether the whole of
that viscus is to be considered as one single organ, or as an aggre-
gate of as many particular and independent organs, as there are
particular and independent species of manifestations of the mind.
On this subject, philosophical writings contain the most absurd and
contradictory opinions. Those, who believe in the singleness of
the soul, conclude that its organ must be single also ; others, who
examine the particular faculties of the soul, maintain that every
special faculty must appertain to a particular organ.
As soon as philosophers began to pay attention to the beings of
nature, it became necessary to divide them into numerous classes.
Moses speaks of the brutes which live _and feel, and those which
reason. The Greek philosophers, calling the cause of every
phenomenon-soul, spoke of a soul of plants, a soul of animals,
and a soul of man. They also admitted a vegetative and a sensi-
tive soul. The inclinations were regarded as the result of the
animus, and the intellect and reason as the apanage of the mens.
Pythagoras, St. Paul, Galen, Gilbert, Gassendi, Bacon, Van
Helmont, 1Vepfer, Leibnitz, Fr. Hoffmann, Haller, Blumenbach,
Soemmerring, Reil, Barthez, &c., all suppose the various phe-
nomena of animals and man, as dependent on the existence of
different causes. Plato and several ancient writers speak of an
unreasonable and of a reasonable soul. Those who admit only one
sou! in man, as Anaxagoras, Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas, Descar-
tes, Stahl, &c., are obliged to acknowledge it possessed of, at least,
several faculties. St. Augustin, determined with great exactness
the faculties which are common to man and animal, and those
which are proper to man. Malebranche, and many other philoso-
phers, speak of principal and secondary faculties ; the principal,
68 PHRENOLOGY.
· are understanding and will ; the secondary, are subdivisions of
understanding : perception, memory, judgment, and imagination ;
and of will: inclination, desire, affections, and passions. Some
authors have even further .subdivided these special faculties ;
Vieussens speaks of two kinds of imagination ; and others admit
several kinds of memory, as a local memory, a verbal memory, a
memory of facts, and a memory of time. Thus it is clear that
various principles, or various faculties of the same principle, have
been admitted at all times to account for the phenomena of mind.
As the principles or the faculties came to be divided and sub-
divided, so different seats were also assigned to them. The ration~
al soul was placed in the head, the irrational, in the viscera of the
abdomen. The ventricles of the brain have, at aU times, been
eonsidered as of prime importance ; the Arabs placed common
sense in the anterior cavity, imagination in the second, judgment
in the third, and memory in the fourth. For several centuries the
brain was considered as the organ of perception, and the cerebel..
lum, as the organ of memory, the strength of which was supposed
to be indicated by the protuberance of the occiput. St. Grcgorius
Nyssenus, that he might explain why the functions of the mind
are not troubled, although the different senses propagate different
impressions, compares the brain to a town with several entrances
and a great number of streets, by means of which it is possible to
arri\'e at the same point. Nenesius, the first bishop of Emesa, in
the reign of Theodosius, taught, that sensation has its seat in the
anterior, memory in the middle, and understanding in the posterior
ventricles. Albertus Magnus, archbishop of Ratisbon, in the thir-
teenth century, delineated a head, on which he indicated the seats
of different faculties of the mind. He placed common sense in the
forehead, or in the first ventricle of the brain, cogitation and judg-
ment in the second, and memory and the moving power in the
third. Peter de 1\lontagnana, in 1491, published a drawing of a
head, on which the seat of sensus communis, of the cellula imag-
inativa, cellula restimativa seu cogitativa, cellula memorativa, and
cellula rationalis were exhibited. Bernard Gordon, Lodovico
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. '· 69
Dolci and several other writers, published similar delineations, arid
placed common sense in the forehead ; and imagination behind it.
According to Dolci, understanding was in the cerebellum, and
memory occupied a lower seat in the neck. Bernard Gordon
placed the cellula cogitativa at the vertex. According to Serveto,
the anterior ventricles receive the images on impressions from with-
out ; the third ventricle is the seat of thought, the aqueduct· of
Sylvius of the soul, and the fourth ventricle of memory. '\-Villis
considered the corpora striata to be the seat of sensation and at-
tention; the medullary matter, of memory ; the corpus callosum,
of reflection ; whilst the moving spirits emanated from the cere-
bellum.
Charles Bonnet regarded each fibre of the brain as a particu-
lar organ of the soul. Boerhaave said, that imagination and judg-
ment must be attached to different seats, because the former was
active in dreaming, the latter in watching. Haller and Van Swei-
ten * fancied that the internal senses occupied different places of
the brain ; but they considered its organization as too complicated,
too intricate, and too difficult of investigation, to permit us to hope
that we should ever be able to point out the seat of memory, of
judgment, or of imagination. Professor Mayer, of Frankfort on
the Oder, thought it probable that the soul exercised its different
faculties in different parts of the brain. He examined the subject,
with details, proved that the plurality of organs is necessary, and
was disposed to look on the cineritious substance as the organ of
memory, and on the cerebellum as the instrument of abstract ideas.
Prochaska believed it more than probable that each internal sense
was attached to a particular organ. Platner spoke of tvvo organs
of the soul, a superior and an inferior. Malacarne could not im-
agine the medullary substance of the brain as everywhere adapted
to receive the same i1~pressions ; he denied the central point of
the nerves, considered the cerebellum as the seat of the intellectu-
al faculties, whose strength ·he estimated according to the number
* Van Sweiten, t. ii. p. 454. 'Quis memorire et rationis sedem in hoe
mirabili et intricatis:.imo or~ano determinare poterit?'
70 PHRENOLOGY.
of lamellre of which this part was composed. Tiedemann, W ris-
berg, Soemmerring, and an immense number of physiologists and
philosophers, have admitted a plurality of organs, and maintained
that different parts of the brain were destined to ·dissimilar func-
tions.
These quotations, which might be greatly multiplied, show that
the idea of a plurality of mental organs as well as faculties is very
old, and that they who call it an invention of Gall are in error.
Let us then examine in a"general way the proofs which must
convince every reflective mind that the brain is a congeries or
aggregate of different organs.
It is a general observation that nature, to produce dissimilar
effects, has varied the material condition of bodies. This is seen
throughout the world : every salt and every metal bas its own
crystallization ; every plant has its particular structure ; even the
parts of the same tree performing different offices, as wood, bark,
leaves, flowers, and fruit, have varying qualities. The organization
of every variety of animal, and of every part of the same animal,
is also modified ; there is a particular organ for every function :
the liver for the secretion of bile, the heart for circulation, and the
lungs for respiration. The five external senses are separate and
independent of each other. There are special nerves for volun-
tary motion, and others for each sort of sensation. Hence, nature
is not so strongly attached to simplicity and unity as certain specu-
lative philosophers are pleased to maintain. This plurality and
independent existence of the organs of automatic life and the ex-
ternal senses, renders it probable that the different internal sensa-
tions and functions of the mind, are also manifested by different
organs.
Besides analogy there are still other proofs of this furnished by
the physchology of animals and man in the state of health and dis-
ease. The brains of diffe_rent animals should be different, because
their facn1ties vary. The beaver wh~ch builds a hut, the dog
which hunts, the blackbird which sings, the swallow which mi-
grates, must have brains whose organization differs widely. Thus
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. '11
it is not a matter of indifference to have a brain of this or of that
kind. Even individuals of the same species do not possess all
faculties in the s~e degree : some excel generally, others are
middling in all things ; some are geniuses, others are idiots. The
organization of the brain in all these cases cannot be equally per-
fect. .Moreover, if the brain were not composed of different or-
gans, why should understanding increase as it becomes complica-
ted ? The cerebral organization of the different sexes at least
should be modified ; for certain faculties are more active in fe-
males, and others in males. These modified manifestations. are
easily understood, if we admit that certain organs are more devel~
oped in males, and others in females.
Further, in the same individual, certain pmpensities, sentiments,
and intellectual faculties are manifested with great energy, while
others scarcely appear. One may excel in verbal memory, and
be incapable of combining two philosophical ideas ; another may
be a great painter, and a bad musician, or a miserable poet; and a
thir~, a great poet, and a bad general ; piety and stupidity and
piety and intelligence, may be conjoined. Every one has his pe-
culiar gifts. Hence the same mass of brain cannot preside over
dissimilar functions. If there were but one organ of sense for all
impressions, all should be felt as soon as one was experienced ;
but the external senses, being attached to different organs, one of
them may be weak and another strong. It is the same with the
internal senses : if the same part were the organ of every faculty,
how could the mind, by means of a single instrument, manifest one
faculty in perfection, and another in a very limited manner?
Nor are all the propensities and intellectual faculties manifested
simultaneously; several appear at an earlier, several at a later
period. Some are very energetic in children, others appear only
in adult age ; some disappear at the age of fifty or sixty, and others
last till ninety or a hundred. Now if every faculty were depen-
dent on the same organ, all ought to appear and disappear simul-
taneously. All these difficulties are removed, if we admit different
organs which are developed, and which diminish, at different pe-
72 PHRENOLOGY.
riods, as happens amongst the external senses. Smell and taste
appear. earlier than sight and hearing, because their organs are
sooner developed.
The faculties of animal life cannot act incessantly, they require
repose. Study of the same subject, too long protracted, causes
fatigue ; by changing this we may still continue our labors. Now
if the brain were a single organ, that performed all the functions of
the mind, why should. it not be still further fatigued by this new
species of action ? Although our eyes be fatigued by looking at
pictures, we can still listen to music, because there is a particular
organ for each of these sorts of impression. Such considerations
are very important in medicine, and by attending to them we may
often prevent partial insanities, if we see that a person has one
organ very active, whether from great size, or excessive irritability,
all that has any relation to the peculiar part must be carefully avoid-
ed, and the activity of the other faculties be aroused.
As during \vatching the same organ is not always active, but
reposes at intervals ; so, during sleep, all the organs do not sink
into inactivity together, but a particular one occasionally continues
its function, and then the peculiar state called dreaming supervenes.
Watching is the state in which the will can call into action the
organs of the intellectual faculties, of the five senses and of volun-
tary motion ; but it is most incorrect to define watching, the state
in which all these organs are active ; for it never happens that all
the faculties are so at the same time. Every corporeal organ
being fatigued takes rest, and this state of rest is sleep ; but single,
or even several organs, may be active while the others repose.
The peculiar sensations or ideas which result from this partial or
parti-cular state of activity, constitute dreams. These are more
or less complicated according to the number of the organs active.
It may here be asked, whether the soul or mind can ever be
without all idea ? It was formerly a general opinion that activity
is the essence of the soul ; and it was maintained that in the deep-
est and most complete sleep it still continued to act and to think,
,
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. 73
only that no one had consciousness of it. But this must be regard-
ed as an assertion, divested of every proof that could assure us of
such a state of action. At all events the state of dreaming proves
the plurality of the organs of the affective and intellectual faculties,
for it \vould he impossible to experience, during dreams, a variety
of ideas and sensations, if the brain were a single organ.
Somnambulism also proves the plurality of the organs. This is
a state of incomplete sleep, \vherein several organs are watching.
Now it is known that the brain takes cognizance of the external
world by means of the five external senses. If, during sleep, par-
ticular organs act, dreams arise; and if the muscles be excited,
motion follows, or the sleeper walks. :Many people, imleed, speak
in their sleep ; others hear and answer in addition ; and some rise
and walk about, doing various acts. This is somnambulism. Now
as the ear can hear, so may the eye see, while the other organs con-
tinue asleep ; and there are positive facts which prove, that several
persons in the state of somnambulism have the sense of sight,
their eyes, however, being open, not shut, as has been reported.
Convulsive fits also occur, in which the patients see without hearing.
Some somnambulists have even done things of which they were
incapable when watching ; and dreaming persons sometimes reason
better than they do when they are awake. When we \vould reflect
deeply upon any subject, we escape from the noise of the world
and external impressions, by covering our eyes with the hands ;
and putting a great number of organs to rest, we endeavor to con-
centrate all vital pO\ver in one or in several. In dreaming and in
somnambulism this naturally happens, the functions of the active
organs are then often more perfect and more energetic, the sensa-
tions more lively, and the reflections deeper than in the state of
watching. Unaware of the danger they en..~ounter, somnambulists
do acts, which, though possible, they would not attempt were they
awake, and conscious of the danger to which they are exposed.
They ought, therefore, never to be awakened when seen in dan-
gerous situations.
. Inspirations, visions, and similar phenomena, can only be ex-
10
.,
74 PHRENOLOGY.
plained by admitting a plurality of organs. They, consequently,.
contribute to demonstrate that position. In order to understand
the nature of visions, it is necessary to bear in mind what I have
said of dreaming. The external world is then represented inward-
ly : we see our friends or our enemies ; we speak, walk, eat,
drink, sing, hear music, &c., and all this happens in our dreaming
brains only. Visions are these internal sensations or ideas, so
strongly pictured forth, that though aroused and awake, the person
still refers them outwards, and cannot help considering them as re-
alities. These internal perceptions, when transitory, are of no
moment, but when permanent, they indicate a true disease of some
part of the brain.
From the preceding considerations, we may now explain why
many persons fancy that they see spirits invisible to others ; be-
lieve themselves accompanied by demons ; and imagine that they
converse with the devil or with angels. It is even known that such
illusions have been produced by the external application of narcotic
ointments, composed of dulcamara, belladonna, stramonium, hyos-
ciamus, opium, &c.
Disease also contributes to prove the plurality of the cerebral
organs ; for how is it possible to combine the fact of partial insani-
ties with the idea of unity of the brain ? It is with the cerebral
parts as with the nerves of the external senses. Any nerve may
be diseased, while the others remain healthy ; we may be blind
and hear, or be deaf and see. Dr. Parry, of Bath, told me, that
in one ~f his patients, while the motion of the whole tongue was
perfect, the taste of one side was impaired. Analogous facts are
~enerally known to medical men ; why should not the cerebral
parts be similarly affected ? One faculty of the mind is often de-
ranged, while all the others remain unimpaired. Monomanire, or
fixed ideas, may be explained by this consideration. There are
also madmen, who are reasonable only in one kind of mental mani-
festation. I know the case of a chemist who is mad in everything
except chemistry ; and of an embroiderer, who, during her fits,
and in the midst of the greatest absurdities, calculates precisely
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAl. ORGANS. 75
how much stuff is necessary for any particular piece of wm·k.
From all these considerations it follows, that there are as many
organs as special and independent faculties ; and consequently that
the brain cannot be a single organ, but must be composed of sev-
eral. I shall now -answer the most important objections to this
principle.
0 B J E C T I 0 N S.
1.-Unity of Consciousness.
Metaphysicians incessantly repeat that the organ of the soul
cannot be complicated, because consciousness is single. This
argument is very old. It has been made use of against BoerhaaYe,
Haller, and Van Swieten, who commented on the duplicity of the
senses and of the brain, and consequently on the plurality of the
·organs. HippocratG
s himself said, th<At the brain of man as well
as of animnls is double. Van Swieten observes, that as the con-
sciousness of impressions in two similar organs is single, as for ex-
3mple in the two ears, hvo eyes, &c., so mental consciousness
generally, is single, though the brain be double. The phenome-
non of single consciousness may ne,·er be explained, but it is cer-
tain that the brain is composed of t\vo halves, nnd each half is
made up of different parts. Vegetative iife is one, but composed
'Of different faculties, performed by different organs. Animal life,
or the exhibition of the affective and intellectual faculties is also
one, though more or less complicated in different beings, and the
various faculties are manifested by means of peculiar organs. In
treating of the functions of the five senses, I shall examine the
va~ious opinions which have been broached to explain single con-
sciousness ; but whether any of these be found satisfactory or not,
the pl~rality of the animal organs is indubitable. The two hemis-
pheres and the individual parts or organs of each may be in differ-
ent and quite opposite states, and produce different affections.
Their mutual influence, and due continuance, on which the unity of
animal life depends, being deranged, the unity of animal life will be
disturbed also.
76 PHRE~OLOGY.
It 1s therefore not true that consciousness is always single, either
in reference to external senses, or to the internal faculties. There
are diseased persons who see all. objects double. Numbers of
madmen hear angels singing, or devils roaring only on one side.
One of Gall's friends, a physician, often complained that he could
not think with the left side of his head ; the right side \Vas one
inch higher than the left. Gall attended a gentleman who for three
years heard peasants insulting him on his left side. He commonly
discerned his derangement and ratified his error ; but if he took a
little too much wine, or had a fit of fever, he always imagined
there were voices abusing him. Tiedemann mentions a certain
Moor who was alienated on one side of his brain, and observed his
madness with the other.
All mono maniacs have a complicated consciousness. I saw in
Dublin a lunatic \vho fancied himself the Duke of ""\Vellington.
He thought to have commanded in Spain and to have gained the
battle of ""\Vaterloo, yet at the same time he was a clever and ex-
cellent servant, did his service at table, and in the house with
great propriety. I saw him handing round at a table, where there
was a large party, everything \vith perfect order and decency, so
that no guest could suspect his aberration.
There are other sorts of remarkable cases which prove that con-
sciousness is not always single. Mr. Combe (System of Phre-
nology, p. 108,) quotes from the .Medical Repository, the case
of a .Miss R. in the United States, \vho naturally possessed a very
good constitution, and arrived at adult age without having it impair-
ed by disease. She possessed an excellent capacity, and enjoyed
fair opportunities to acquire knowledge. Besides the domestic arts
and social attainments, she had improved her mind, by reading
and conversation, and was versed in penmanship. Her memory
was capacious, and stored with a copious stock of ideas. Unex-
pectedly, and without any forewarning, she fell into a profound
sleep, which continued several hours beyond the ordinary term.
On waking she was discovered to have lost every trait of acquired
knowledge. Her memory was tabula rasa. All vestiges both of
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. 77
words and things were obliterated and gone. It was found neces-
sary for her to learn everything again. She even acquired, by
new efforts, the art of spelling, reading, writing, and calculating,
and gradually became acquainted, with the persons and objects
around, like a being for the first time brought into the world. In
these exercises she made considerable proficiency. But after a
few months another fit of somnolency im·aded her. On rousing
from it, she found herself restored to the state she was before the
first paroxysm, but was wholly ignorant of every event and occur-
rence that had befallen her afterwards. The former condition of
her existence, she called the old state, and the latter the new state,
and she is as unconscious of her double character, as two distinct
persons are of their respective natures. During four years and
upwards, she had undergone periodical transitions from one of
these states to another. The alterations were always consequent
upon a long and sound sleep. In her old state she possessed all
her original knowledge, in her new state only what she acquired
since. If a gentleman or lady be introduced to her in the old state,
or vice t•ersa, and so of all other matters, to know them satisfac-
torily she must learn them in both states. In the old state she
possesses fine powers of penmanship, while in the new writes a
poor awkward hand, not having had time or means to become ex-
pert. In January, 1816, both the lady and her family were able
to conduct affairs without embarrassment. By quickly knowing
whether she is in the old or new state, they regulate their inter-
course and govern themselves accordingly. The Rev. Timothy
Alden of Meadville has drawn up a history of this-curious case.
I know the history of a noble family where a son had similar fits,
accompanied by a special memory, so that consciousness was
double, one for the ordinary state, and the other for the fits.
Dr. Devan read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in Februa-
ry, 1822, the history of a case, observed by Dr. Dyer of Aber-
deen, in a girl, sixteen years old, which lasted from 2d March, to
11th June, 1815. The first symptom \Yas an uncommon propen-
sity to fall asleep in the evenings. This was followed by the hab-
78 PHRENOLOGY.
it of talking in her sleep on those occasions. One evening she fell
asleep in this manner ; imagining herself an Episcopal clergyman,
she went through ihe ceremony of baptising three children and
gave an appropriate prayet·. Her mistress shook her by the
shoulders, on which she awoke and appeared unconscious of
everything, except that she had fallen asleep, of which she showed
herself ashamed. She sometimes dressed herself and the children
while in this state, or as Miss L. called it, ' dead asleep,' answer-
ed questions put to her in sueh a manner as to show that she un-
derstood the question, but the answers were often, though not
always, incongruous. One day in this state she set at breakfast,
with perfect correctness, with her eyes shut. She afterwards
awoke with the ·child on her knees, and wondered how she got on
her clothes. Sometimes the cold air awakened her, at other times
she was seized with the affection lvhilst walking out with the child-
ren. She sang a hymn delightfully in this state, and from a com-
parison, which Dr. Dyer had an opportunity of making, it appear-
ed incomparably better done than she could accomplish when
awake. In the meantime a still more singular and interesting
symptom began to make its appearance. The circumstances
which occurred during the paroxysm, were completely forgotten
by her when the paroxysms were over, but were perfectly remark-
ed during subsequent paroxysms. Her mistress said that lvhen in
this stupor, on subsequent occasions, she told her what was said to
her on the evening when she baptised the children. A depraved
fellow servant, understanding that she wholly forgot every transac-
tion that occurred during the fit, clandestinely introduced a young
man into the house, who treated her with the utmost rudeness,
whilst her fellow servant stopped her mouth with the bed clothes
and otherwise overpowered a vigorous resistance which was made
by her even during the influence of her complaint. Next day she
had not the slightest recollection even of that transaction, nor did
any person interested in her welfare know of it for several days,
till she was in one of her paroxysms when she related the whole
fact to her mother. Next Sunday she was taken to church by her
PLURALITY OF ' THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. 79
mistress, while the paroxysm \Vas on her. She shed tears during
the sermon, particularly during the account given of the execution
of three young men at Edinburgh, who had described in their
dying declarations the dangerous steps with which their career of
vice and infamy took its commencement. "\Vhen she returned
home, she recovered in a quarter of an hour, was quite amazed at
the questions put to her about the church sermon, and denied that
she had been to any such place, but next night on being taken ill,
she mentioned that she had been at church, repeated the words
of the text, and in Dr. Dyer's hearing gave an accurate account
of the tragical narrative of the three young men by which her feel-
ings had been so powerfully affected.
The same phenomena present themselves, when in a state of
somnambulism produced by animal magnetism. It has been re-
peatedly observed that some magnetised persons acquire a new
consciousness and memory during their magnetic sleep. "\Vhen
this state has subsided, all that passed in it is obliterated and the
recollection of the ordinary state is restored. If the magnetic
sleep is recalled again, the memory of the circumstances which
occurred in that state is restored, so that the individuals may be
said to live in a state of divided or double consciousness.
Single consciousness, then, even in the sense of personal identi-
ty, is not a constant phenomenon, though it is seldom disturbed.
The different sorts of consciousness, as special sensations, feelings
and notions, are evident in every individual, and can be explained
only by the instrumentality of different organs ; in the same \vay
as we hear, see, smell, and feel by the assistance of different
nerves.
II.
It is also objected that, in conce1vmg the brain composed of
many organs, its unity is destroyed, whilst all organic parts are
evidently dependent on each other. It is certainly impossible to
deny the mutual influence and dependence of the different organs,
80 PHRENOLOGY.
and no one can insist upon this truth more than I do. There is1
however, a great difference between saying that the various organ6
ic parts exert a mutual ·influence, and saying that each part does
not "
perform its own particular function. This may be illu?trated
from ,·egetative and animal life. Digestion is necessary to tha
circulation of th~. blood, and to the secretion of bil~ ; but does the
stomach effect the circulation of the blood, or the secretion of
bile ? Nutrition depends on digestion, chylification, sanguification,
respiration, circulation, and other auxiliary functions ; but is not
each of these functions the office of some particular organ ? We
observe the same in animal life. Without the auditory apparatus
we could not hear any language ; but does h~aring invent the vocal
signs ? 'Ve shall afterwards see that we cann~t arrive at certain
ideas without the external senses, but that still the external senses
do not produce the conceptions of these ideas. Again, whatever
nourishes the brain contributes to its evolution, as is the case \vith
the eyes, the ears, &c. ; and no part of the body detached from it
can preserve its perfect organization, or perform its function; but
can we therefore say that the eye does not see, that the ear does
not hear?
III.
The particular organs of the brain, it is objected again, are not
so distinctly separated as the nerves of the five external senses.
It is true tbe limits or lines of separation cannot be exactly deter-
mined between the different organs, but neither can they in the
case of tbe five external senses. The nerves of motion have not
yet been separated from the nerves of feeling in the mass of the
spinal marrow, though they must be different. The structure of
the skin also must vary at different places, as is evident by the
exhalations arising from it, and the hair which grows on various
parts of it ; but this difference has not yet been demonstrated.
Neither the limits of the olfactory nerve, nor of the nerve of sight,
are more distinct than are the limits of the fibrous bundles of the
PLURALITY OF THE CEREBRAL ORGANS. 81
cerebral organs. But as the relation between the optic nerve and
sight, between the olfactory nerve and smell may be shown, so we
can demonstrate the relations between the bun91es of the brain and
the affective and intellectual faculties. Anatomy shows that· the
bundles, which form the convolutions situated in the forehead, are
small but numerous, while the posterior bundles ar.e less numerous
but large ; and \Ve shall see that the faculties of the forehead are
more numerous but less energetic, than those whose organs are··sit-
uated in the posterior and superior parts of the head. The mutual
influence of the cerebral functions upon each other requires a com-
munication of the cerebral organs, and in my work on the Anatomy
of the Brain I have a ~eparate chapter on the apparatuses of com-
munication.
IV.
The comparison of the internal organs with the five external
senses is rejected as affording any proof of the plurality of the
organs, because the five external senses may be reduced to a sin-
gle sense, sensation, just as all the internal faculties may be reduc-
ed to the faculty of thinking. It is true, that the five external sen-
ses only operate some kind of sensation ; but sensation in this sense
is a general expression, and embraces different species of sensation,
as hearing, seeing, smelling, &c. Gravity, density, volume, &e.,
are general expressions in physics ; but it is necessary to specify
their determinate qualities to indicate the peculiar bodies of which
we speak, as gold, silver, copper, iron, &c. Life is a general ex-
pression, and life's common phenomena, birth, nutrition, increase,
decrease, and death, are observed in all living beings, in plants and
in animals. It is, however, necessary to discriminate vegetation
from animalisation. Secretion is a general expression ; but each
particular sort must be indicated, and is actually performed by a
particular organ; as bile by the liver, urine by the kidneys, &c.
\Ye must proceed in a similar manner in considering animal life :
sensation is a general expression, and every kind of sensation must
11
82 PHRENOLOGY.
be specified. The having sensations of light, of sound, of taste, or
of smell, are very different things. Each of these particular sensa-
tions is performed by a particular organ. The faculty of thinking
is a common power; but thoughts of space, of form, color, tone,
number,&~., are particular kinds which are manifested by appro-
priate and special organs. This objection, therefore, instead of
refuting the notion of the plurality of the organs, proves the neces-
sity of its admission from analogy.
V.
Another objection is the following : the nerves of the five exter-
nal senses are homogeneous, and their functions only differ on ac-
count of their external apparatus. The auditory nerve in the eye,
it is said, would see, and the olfactory nerve in the ear would hear ;
therefore, the internal organs, being destitute of such external ap-
paratus, necessarily perform the same functions. This opinion is
still pretty general. As a polypus may be divided into several
pieces, and every piece become an independent whole, so Cuvier
compares the nervous system to a net, or a broken loadstone,
which originally was composed of homogeneous parts; and he pro-
ceeds to say that he thinks the different functions of the nerves
must be attributed to external apparatus, to the ramifications and
combinations of blood-vessels ; in short, to an infinity of secondary
circumstances, rather than to the internal structure of the nerves~
It may, however, be proved anatomically and physiologically, that
not the e...~ternal apparatus only, but also the internal structure of
nerves performing dissimilar offices is different. I admit five sorts.
of nerves, and subdivisions of each : the first of these presides over
vegetative life ; the s~ond over voluntary motion ; the third over
the functions of the five senses ; the fourth over the feelings ; and
the fifth over the intellectual faculties. The nerves of the first
kind are soft, and of a gray or \Vhitish-red color ; those of the sec-
ond are white and firm. The nerves of the five external senses.
differ universally in their consistence, color, form, and texture. The
PLURALITY OF THE CERlillRAL ORGANS. 83
fibres of the brain and cerebellum are white and delicate. .More-
over, every nerve, and e\·en the different parts of each, have their
origins in a particular quantity of cineritious substance. Now,
these anatomical circumstances never vary, and must, consequently,
be essential to the structure and function of the nerves. Cuvier is
therefore in contradiction with himself, \Vhen he says, * that ' what-
ever be the position of the parts, and however circuitous the cours-
es nerves mu~t take to arrive at their destinations, . certain parts
constantly receive their nerves from the same source. Similar
nerves have always a similar distribution. The smallest pairs, as
the fourth and sixth, which might easily have been supplied by
some neighboring trunk, are regularly formed, and destined.' t
From these anatomical facts, it seems natural to conclude that the
nerves are not all exactly alike. Their difference is equally pro\'-
ed by physiology. The divers functions of vegetative life, as the
secretion of bile, saliva, tears, &c., suppose organs essentially dif-
ferent : is it not then likely to be the same with the nerves of the
five senses ? Their external apparatuses are said to be different,
because fitted to receive different impressions ; but can dissimilar
impressions be transmitted to the brain by the same nerves ?
Could impressions of light be propagated by the auditory nerve ?
If the manner of propagating impressions from without, and of com-
municating these to the brain were essentially the same, and weak-
er or stronger only, perceptions of these similar impressions ought
also to be essentially similar, and to differ in nothing but in strength.
This proves that the difference of the propagated impressions re-
quires corresponding difference in the structure of the nerves which
propagate them. Moreover, the internal structure of the nerves
must be different, because they perform their special functions
aroused by mere internal irritations. The sensations experienced
in dreaming are the same as external impressions produce. A
person who has lost his eyes dreams that he sees ; another thinks
* Loc. cit. p. 192.
t J. Hunter made the same observation before Cuvier.
84 PHRENOLOGY.
he feels pain in an amputated limb ; an increased flow of blood to
the eyes makes us see sparks and luminous bodies ; to the ears, it
excites tingling and humming noises. Finally, illusions of the five
external senses in different diseases, are produced by purely inter·
nal causes. All these phenomena force us to infer that the organi·
zation of every nerve is particular.
It is replied that the difference of the organs cannot be demon·
strated. I answer that the contrary also cannot be shown. Hence,
neither the homogeneous nor the dissimilar structure of the organs
is pro\'ed or refuted by any consideration on the five senses.
There are, however, many things similar in appearance, and really
different in nature. Many fluids look like water without being
aqueous. 'Vho can distinguish all the varieties of apple-trees by
the difference of their ligneous fibres ; nnd these must, neverthe-
less, be different, since their flowers and fruits are so ? Hence,
physiological must supply what is deficient in anatomical proofs.
VI.
Plattner made the following objection : a musician plays with his
fingers on all instruments, why should not the soul manifest all its
operations by means of the same organ ? This observation is rath-
er in favor of, than in opposition to the plurality of the organs, for
there are ten fingers which play, and musical instruments have
many chords or holes.
VII.
All voluntary motion is produced by muscles : It 1s, consequent·
ly, possible that all ideas and sensations may be the result of differ·
ent motions of the cerebral fibres. Those who make this objec-
tion, forget that the various motions are performed by many
different muscles. There are flexors, extensors, pronators, &c.1
and every muscle is composed of many fibres, often having differ-
ent directions. Now, in every position, and in every motion of
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 85
the body, other and different muscles start into activity. In the
same w::~y we conceive every kind of sensation or idea, attached
to particular fibres of the brain.
The two first principles of phrenology examined in the preced-
ing pages, are allowed essentially not to have the claim of original
discovery, though we elucidated them with more clearness, and
with more details, than any natural philosopher had done before us.
Gall's particular merit, however, begins with the specification of
the fundamental powers and their respective organs. Here every
point becomes new, though his first method of proceeding was
physiognomical, and known to his predecessors and contempora-
ries. But Gall confined himself to the head, and he alone is the
founder of the physiology of the brain, in giving consistency and
extension to these inquiries.
SECTION V.
On the Means of Determining the Functions of the Cerebral
Parts.
AFTER having proved that the faculties of the mind are different,
and that the manifestation of every fundamental power must depend
on some particular organ, it is natural to ask how the organ of each
may be determined. As the idea of the plurality of the organs is
very ancient, let us first consider what means have been employed
for theit· detection,-inquire into the cause of the indifferent suc-
cess that has attended those investigations, and afterwards speak
of the manner pursued by Gall and Phrenologists.
I. Anatomy.
Many natural philosophers have hoped to ascertain the functions
of the cerebral parts by anatomy, especially by comparative an-
S6 PHRENOLOGY.
atomy. It is even pretty generally believed that our physiology
of the brain is the result of anatomical investigation. This, howev-
er, is not the case. I shaH here make some reflections on anat-
omy in general, and on comparative anatomy in particular. There
are very fe,v instances where structure indicates function. 1Vho,
before observing the muscles in action, could have inferred from
their structure that they were contractile ? "\Vho from the anatomy
of the stomach, could predicate its digestive power ? "\Vho, from
the structure of the viscera, could decide that the liver would se-
crete bile, the kidney•urine ? The structure of the heart was known
long before its function. "\Vho, from the structure and form of
the nerves, could determine what kind of Impressions they propa-
gate ? The deepest penetration could not have assigned smell to
the pituitary membrane of the nose,-taste to the nervous papillre
of the tongue,-perception of light to the optic nerve, &c., from
mere examination of structure.
It is the same with the brain. Though the dire~tion of its fibres,
their greater or less consistence, their deeper or lighter shades
of color, their size, length, &c., be known, what conclusion as to
the functions can thence be drmvn ? None. It is with the brai11
as with plants whose functions are extremely different, even when
differences in the organization are imperceptible, which, however,
must exist, as effects proclaim. It is quite certain, therefore, that
anatbmical knmdedge does not indicate function ; some other
means must, consequently, be used to discover the offices of the
cerebral parts. Physiology has, indeed, often preceded anatomy.
It was generally known that we see by means of the eyes, before
their structure \vas discovered. If it were possible to determine
functions according to structure, we should not have to refute so
many errors ; to show, for instance, that the feelings neither result •
from the viscera, nor nervous plexuses and ganglia of the abdomen,
nor from the temperaments, &c. 1\Iany cerebral organs were dis-
covered by Gall, before their anatomy was demonstrated, and his
discoveries might ha\'C subsisted for centuries, without any infor-
mation on the structure of the brain.
MEA~S OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 87
'Vhen I say, however, that function is not discovered by know-
ledge of anatomical structure, I am far from maintaining that the
structure of a part has no relation to its function. The structure
of the heart did not proclaim, yet it was in relation to its function.
It is the same with all the parts of Yegetative and animal life. A
physiological system of the brain \vould be necessarily false, were
it in contradiction with its anatomical structure. If an anatomist
could prove all nerves to be only prolongations of the brain,-
show their termination in one central point,-demonstrate the ab-
sence of difference in the brains of animals with dissimilar faculties,
and between the brait; of an idiot from birth and that of a person
endow·ed with great talent: in short, if an anatomist demonstrate
the structure of the brain to be in contradiction to our physiologi-
cal principles, or vice versn, he will annihilate our whole doctrine
with all its consequences. There is then some relation beh,·een
the structure and function of organic parts, but the structure of a
part, seldom, if ever, indicates its function.
Let us now examine whether by comparative anatomy the func-
tions of the brain can be determined. At first sight, comparative
anatomy seems capable of affording important results, but a nearer
view shows obstacles that preclude even the hope of aid from it.
First, as I have just said, it is impossible to determine functions,
from structure. Then, there are animals whose vegetative life
presents organs of \Vhich man is destitute. May we not conjec-
ture that it is the same with animal life ; but how can we conceive
any function if we are not endowed with one similar? According-
ly, although it be of the highest importance to know what grada-
tions nature observes in adding to and complicating the brains of
animals as their functions are multiplied and ennobled, we must
allow that, notwithstanding the most assiduous labors, comparative
anatomists have only shown the mechanical forms of different brains
without determining the functions of the cerebral parts.
Principles were wanting to enable anatomists to determine the
existence or absence of the same parts in different animals ; these
have been denied or admitted, according to similarity or dissimi
88 PHRENOLOGY.
larity of form alone. Anatomists do not even agree in what the
brain consists. I call brain the nervous mass joined with the
nerves of motion and of the five external senses, and manifesting
the feelings and intellectual faculties.
In the lower animals it is extremely difficult, if not impossible,
to determine whether there be a particular cerebral mass intimate-
ly united to the origins of the nerves, so as, apparently, to form a
whole, the parts of ·which cannot be demonstrated ; or, whether
this mass belongs entirely to the nerves of the five external senses ;
in which case external impressions lvould be perceived without a
bra:n, according to the definition just given. In fishes, the ner-
vous mass situated in the skull, is divided into several ganglia,
whose functions are not sufficiently understood. In birds, the
hemispheres of the brain are more considerable than in animals of
a lower order, but they are without convolutions. "\Ve have recti-
fied the error committed by the anatomists who stated birds to be
destitute of cornmissures, thalami, and corpora striata. The cere-
bellum of birds consists of semicircular rings. In viviparous ani-
mals, its lateral parts become very considerable. The brains of
small quadrupeds, as of mice, rats, squirrels, &c., are smooth on
the surface and without convolutions. Cuvier, however, is wrong
in saying that the brains of the rodentia have no convolutions ; for
in the beaver they are very distinct. In the greater number of
quadrupeds, the brain presents distinct convolutions ; but the func-
tion of no cerebral' part has ever been detected in them. Accord-
ing to Cuvier, all the mammalia, saving man and some of the sim-
ire, are without posterior cerebral lobes. He founds this asser-
tion on the circumstance of their cerebella being uncovered with
brain. The conclusion is, however, very incorrect ; for the fact
exists only in consequence of the horizontal position of quadrupeds~
The presenee of posterior lobes cannot be denied, because their
size and form differ in different anima1s, or else the anterior and
middle lobes ought also to be denied. Nay, it seems to me that
in animals, the anterior and lateral cerebral convolutions are pro-
portionally much smaller than those behind ; for the pretended
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 89
optic thalami, out of which the convolutions placed posteriorly
spring, are proportionally much larger in quadrupeds than the
external half of the corpora striata, from which those in the front
and sides arise. Thus the anterior and middle lobes of the brains
of animals do not present a greater analogy to those of man, than
the posterior lobes. It is generalJy to be observed, that the posi-
tion and form of cerebral parts do not constitute essential proofs
of their existence. In man, the ganglion of the olfactory nerve is
covered by the anterior lobe of the brain ; in quadrupeds, it lies
before it entirely ; the olfactory nerve of man is separated from his
brain ; in the greatest number of quadrupeds it is united to the
anterior convolutions, &c. ; but are the anterior lobes therefore
wanting in quadrupeds ? Moreover the cerebellum of all men is
not entirely covered by the posterior lobes ; these lobes neverthe-
less exist, and are only smaller in proportion to the cerebellum,
than in ordinary cases. Finally, animals manifest the functions
which are performed by the posterior lobes of the human brain,
and, consequently, we must conclude physiologically that the res~
pective organs exist.
Cuvier, in contradiction with himself, states farther, that the
brains of quadrupeds have the same parts as the brain of man. ,.
By this, however, he can only mean such large portions as the
cerebellum, the pons Varoli, the thalami, corpora striata, corpus
callosum, anterior and middle lobes. This assertion, therefore,
still requires rectification in another respect. The brain and ce-
rebellum of man and animals preserve the samP general type indeed,
but they present many modifications, and many parts of the human
brain are not found in the brains of animals. This point may be
illustrated by analogy. All plants and trees have certain common
parts, as roots, stalk, trunk, boughs, branches, and leaves ; but
can we say that all vegetables have the same parts ? Various
branches might be engrafted <?n a common trunk and bring forth
different fruit, yet the general type of a tree is the same. The
laws of vegetation are similar in all plants, but the elements sub-
mitted to these laws are different. Precisely so are the laws of the
12
90 PHRENOLOGY.
nervous system ; there exists one type from the brain of the insect
to that of man, but it presents as many modifications as nature in-
tended to produce different functions; the common parts are, con-
sequently, more or less complicated.
Cuvier thought there was some relation between the tubercula quad-
rigemina and the nature of the food of animals. According to him,
the anterior pair of these tubercles is larger in herbivorous animals,
and the posterior in carnivorous. The wolf and sheep, however,
have the nates larger than the testes : the general assertion of Cu-
vier, therefore, falls to the ground. I pass over many other errors,
believed and propagated by comparative anatomists, because they
belong rather to anatomy than to physiology, and I refer the reader
to my work on the anatomy of the brain and its appendix. Here,
I only say that comparative anatomy, as hitherto conducted, has, no
more than anatomy in general, advanced the physiology of the
brain. I think it will suffice, if I quote but one passage of Cuvier
in cogfirmation, where he says* positively, that 'the instinct Is
indicated by no visible mark in the conformation of the animal.'
II. Jlfutilations.
Several natural philosophers have endeavored, by mutilations,.
to determine the functions of. the brain. They cut away various
parts to see what faculty would be lost. But, in the first place, such
means, formerly, could not be accurately employed, and must,
therefore, have been entirely useless ; the duplicity of the organs
was frequently overlooked ; the structure of the brain, too, was not
known, and the mutilations were made horizontally, while the direc-
tion of the fibres is vertical. Moreover, the special faculties of
the mind were unknown, and the mutilated animals were said to
manifest all the faculties, if they exhibited such as are common and
general only.
These means have been pursued ':rithout fruit hitherto, ~d are
* Le regne animal distribue d'apres son organization. Paris, 1817, tom. 1.
P· 54.
.MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 91
certainly inadequate to determine the functions of the brain ; for
the organs not being confined to the surface must be cut a\ 3.J on
both sides down to Lhe c0rpora striata and optic thalami, and a
wound of this extent would kill any perfect animal. But let us
even suppose that it survived such a mutilation, how is it to mani-
fest a sensation of whose organ it has been deprived ; and how in-
dicate its want ? Such operations, too, are so violent, that seve-
ral faculties might be retained without being manifested. A bird,
whose brain is half scooped out, is not likely to sing, or to build a
nest, &c. Finally, parts deranged by sympathy, are sometimes
more sensible than those which suffer primitively or idiopathicany.
A headache often results from something indigestible in the stom-
ach, and this, without any feeling of pain in the stomach itself.
Several physiologists, particularly Fodere, Rolando, Flourens,
.l\Iagendie, and others, have recently mutilated the brains of various
living animals ; from their observations, the inferenc~ might be
drawn, that the whole brain and cerebellum are destined to regulate
voluntary motion. This, ho\re,·er, is in contradiction with all
physiological observations on the brain in the healthy state, and I
think that it is impossible to determine the functions of the cerebral
parts by mutilation. At all events this violent proceeding w!ll not
teach more than may be done by observations, made in the healthy
state.
III. Sir Evc1·ard Home's Jlfethod.
Sir Everard Home,* in his Observations on the Functions of
the Brain, read at the Royal Society, bn the 26th of May, 1814,
seems to trust to a peeuliar means of determining the functions of
the cerebral parts. He says : ' The various attempts which have
been made to procure accurate information respecting the functions
that belong to individual portions of the human brain, having been
attended with very little success, it has occurred to me that, were
anatomical surgeons to collect in one view all the appearances they
* Philosophical Transactions for the year 1814. Part. II. p. 769.
92 PHRENOLOGY.
had met with, in cases of injury to that organ, and the effects that
such injuries produced upon its functions, a body of evidence
might be formed that would materially advance this highly impor-
tant investigation.' He then informs his readers that he has brought
together ~ertain observations, stating them as so many experiments
upon the brain, with the conclusions which tend to elucidate this
particular inquiry.
Let us first hear his observations. "'\Ve read, * 'that in the tor-
pid state, commonly attendant upon any violent shake being given
to the brain, the senses are so much impaired, that little informa-
tion can be gained respecting the effects produced upon the inter-
nal organs ;-that a coup de soleil is sometimes accompanied by
delirium, loss of speech, and the power of swallowing ; that blood
extravasated in the lateral and third ventricles was attended by re-
peated fits of vomiting and by coma; that coagulable lymph, spread
over the union of the optic nerves, the pineal gland and tuberculum
annulare, was followed by permanent contraction of the muscles be-
tween the occiput and vertebr~ of the neck, dilatation of the pupils,
and a great degree of deafness; -that the formation of pus under
the dura mater covering the right hemisphere was accompanied by
delirium succeeded by coma ;-that a tumor in the substance of the
posterior lobe of the brain was attended \vith derangement of the
functions of the stomach and bowels, and with double ,·ision; and
that a deep wound in the right anterior lobe of the brain, attended
with inflammation and suppuration, produced no effect \vhatever, the
senses remaining entire, and the person not knmving that the head
\Vas injured. In a case, also, in which the tuberculum annulare
had become so hard as not to be cut easily with a knife, a consid-
erable quantity of earthy particles having been intermixed with the
medullary substance of the crura and other parts of the cerebellum,
and the cerebrum and the upper parts of the cerebellum being
unusually soft, the effects were, that the boy had been an idiot
from birth, never walked, spoke, nor understood what was said,
often went three days without food, and so on.'
*Sect. II.~ p. 477: &c.
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 93
I suppose Sir E. Home did not intend to state such facts as
quite new and unobserved; for every one who is but half acquain-
ted with the history of the healthy and diseased state of the brain,
knows, that many authors have related cases, in most or in all re-
spects similar. 'Ve learn, hmvever, from his paper, that like
grave affections of the brain, often produce no perceptible derange-
ment in the manifestations of the mind. I only maintain, that the
means Sir E. Home has adopted, are quite inadequate to point
out the functions of the brain, and that all hope of success from
such a procedure is vain; this, my opinion, is supported by the
observations ·of Sir E. Home himself. He does, indeed, speak of
a body of evidence which might be formed, and of conclusions
which tend to elucidate this peculiar inquiry; but he has not drawn
even one inference. In the various pathological affections of the
brain, he has observed headache, giddiness, faintness, loss of mem-
ory, want of sleep, delirium, mania, depression of spirits, melan-
choly, apoplexy, idiotism, hissing noise in the ear, deafness, blind-
ness, loss of speech, irregular pulse, stupor, the month dra\vn to
one side, numbness of the arms and legs, spasms in the lower ex-
tremity, stumbling in walkin~, pain between the shoulders, nausea,
retching, slow action of purgative medicines, vomiting, convul-
sions, &c. Sir E. Home is, perhaps, inclined to infer, that the
brain is the organ of these symptoms, or it may be of the states
which are opposite to them ?-The above will be sufficient to
show an intelligent reader, that in Sir E. Home's mode we should
never be able to determine the peculiar functions of the cerebral
parts.
IV. Dr. Gall's proceeding.
At the beginning of this volume I stated that Gall's researches
were merely physiognomical ; that he compared the size and form
of the \vhole head with the general faculties of the understanding,
looked for particular signs only of memory, judgment and imagina-
1ion, and did not suppose that the feelings also resided in the brain ;
94 PHRENOLOGY.
but that not succeeding in this way, he compared the form and the
size of the whole head with the favorite occupations of those \vho
were remarkable for peculiar talents. During several years he
thought, for instance, that great mechanicians may be distinguished
by a face capable of being enclosed between two parallel lines ; in
other words, which was equally wide at the temples, as at the
cheek bones, and great musicians by a triangular form of the fore-
head. He met, ho\vever, with exceptions, and was then admon-
ished that he had not yet arrived at the truth, since nature makes
no exceptions in her laws. If the eye be the organ of sight, vis-
ion can never exist without the eye ; so also in regard to the inter-
nal organs. If a peculiar faculty be attached to a certain cerebral
part, this can never be wanting, if the faculty is manifested. This
truth is as evident as the statement, that no effect can take place
without a cause. Gall was therefore obliged to give up his early
method of investigating general configurations of head. This time,
however, was not entirely lost, as he acquired great facility of dis-
tinguishing differences in configuration.
Recalling to his mind his first observations, by which he distin-
guished a good memory from the developement of a particular part
of the brain, which gave to the eye a prominent appearance, he
then sought to discover the organs of particular faculties, and com-
pared peculiar cerebral configurations with the natural vocations
of different persons. Thus, when he observed any mechanician,
musician, sculptor, draughtsman, or mathematician eminently gift-
ed, and who had displayed his talent from birth, he examined his
head, to see if he could discover a peculiar developement of any
cerebral part. Proceeding in this way, he soon detected peculiar
developements in musicians and mechanicians. He observed, that
a certain part of the head was always highly developed when a pe-
culiar talent was innate, while th~ rest of the head was very differ-
ently shaped in each individual case. At first he confined his
observations to men of pm"tiRl genius, and such individuals were,
indeed, his best subjects, not only because their organs are easily
pointed out, but also because they alone resist, or are superior to
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 95
the influence of external circumstances and education. These in-
dividuals are also the most proper for confirming the organs and
convincing beginners ; for in them the organs are most easily
distinguished, and the relation between developement of cerebral
parts and particular manifestations of mind is most evident. It is
also important to observe the characters of persons, who, being
uncultivated, are least capable of dissimulation. As physician to
the establishment for the deaf and dumb at Vienna, Gall was for-
tunately circumstanced for this purpose. Here he conld observe
the natural state of mental manifestations, and detect different de-
grees of susceptibility of education. With this view, persons from
the lower classes were also called into his house, and encouraged
in such conversations and behaviour as might show their char-
acters.
Thus, Gall, to discover the mental faculties and their particular
organs, had recourse to the principal actions of men, and then
named the cerebral parts accompanying, after these actions. Indi-
viduals are born mathematicians, mechanicians, musicians, philolo-
gists, metaphysicians, poets, &c.; if he found a certain part of the
brain of each uniformly more developed than the rest, he termed
this the organ of mathematics, music, philology, metaphysics, or
poetry, &c. In the same way, individnals are, from birth, stub-
born, prou_d, courageous, or thievishly, murderously, religiously
inclined, &c., and the cerebral part that regularly accompanied
these actions, he called organs of pride, firmness, courage, theft,
murder, religion, &c.
Gall, observing that greater than common developement of a
certain cerebral part, corresponded with a peculiar talent or deter-
minate inclination, at first, supposed the part so developed, might
be the organ of such manifestation, and the probability of this as-
sumption increased in proportion to the number of confirmatory
observations. Again, if he saw a head with a protuberance, evi-
dently occasioned by the develcpement of a cerebral part, he en-
deavored to get acquainted with the individual, and to learn his
talents or dominant character. If the organ \vas one on whose
!)6 PHRENOLOGY.
functions preceding actions had already led him to draw conclusions,
every new case of correspondence increased the probability of his
having been correct. If, on the other· hand, it was an organ not
yet observed, he compared the actions m· inclinations which ac-
companied it, with its developement and the mental frame of others,
and concluded accordingly. In these two ways, an the organs
Gall discoYered \vere determined. These were, to give them his
own names, the organs of propagation, murder, theft, mechanical
arts, music, mathematics, and metaphysics, discovered by compar-
ing the larger develop~ment of individual parts with the energetic
actions, and the organs of love of offspring, circumspection, and
religion, by looking for the determinate actions that accompany
great developement of particular organs.
Now, if energetic functions indicate large organs, and if large
organs produce energetic functions, \veak actions will indicate
smal1 organs, and small organs win produce weak actions. Gall,
consequently, compared weak mental functions of individuals with
the respective cerebral organs, and small organs \Yith the respec-
tive functions ; and if weak functions corresponded to smal1 organs,
or smal1 organs to weak functions, his first conclusions were con-
firmed in a negati\'e way.
l\Ian)' circumstances contributed, from the beginning, to favl?r
the multiplication of these positive and negative proofs. Gall, liv-
ing in a great city, professional1y acquainted v;rith many families,
and physician to the director·of the schools at Vienna, had many
facilities a[orded him of observing character in an situations and
at al1 ages. "\Vithout children himself, he could spend his income
on his favorite pursuits ; he was also bold enough to address every
person in whose head he observed any peculiar configuration. In
our travels, we likewise had great opporttmity of observing, and
gained much information, and as we met with many distinguished
persons, \Ve constantly compared their organization with their ca-
paclties. In short, we conected innumerable facts, by visits to
establishments for education, to hospitals for idiots and the insane,
to houses of correction and to pr~sons, by our intercourse with
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 97
different nations, and our free communication with all classes of
society.
Gall at a very early stage of his progress, began to make a col-
lection of casts from the heads of individuals remarkable for quali-
ties) whether talents or moral sentiments. He thus preserved
memorials of his observations, which he could often rectify by
comparisons and examinations of them in P{ivate, and at different
times,-a very important point ; for our mind is not always equally
energetic and acute. He often placed the busts of individuals,
who excelled in the same functions together, without distinguishing
any similarity in the shape of their heads ; sometimes he looked in
vain at them for several weeks. Those only who have engaged in
such studies, know how long the eyes must be exercised before
they can detect every difference in forms and sizes at a glance.
The collection of busts had still another advantage. Many of the
:1; individuals were remarkable in several points of view, as well af-
firmatively as negatively, and consequently presented various points
for comparison.
At the same time he collected skulls, especially of those who
were remarkable for particular qualities, and, if possible, of those
whose busts he had modelled in plaster. He thus learned to com-
pare heads with individual skulls, and also to perceive more clearly
the forms of the organs.
We extend our observations over both sexes. There is a natt.V
ral difference in the mental dispositions of men and worne~, not in
essence but in quantity, and quality, which no education can re-
move. Certain mental powers are stronger, and others weaker in
men than in women, and vice versa. The heads of women are
generally larger from the forehead to the occiput, and narrower
laterally than those of men, whilst they are shorter and broader on
both sides.-The same difference is observed in males and females
of animals. If this difference of brain coincide with our observa-
tion of special faculties in individuals, the probability of having dis-
covered truth increases.
As the arrangement and position of all parts common to men
13
t
98 . PHRENOLOGY.
and animals are nearly the same, it is very useful to compare the
cerebral organization of animals endowed with like powers ; or to
contrast this with that of such as are destitute of these faculties.
In this way points of comparison are exceedingly multiplied, and
observations, relative to faculties common to man and animals, may
be repeated to infinity. The function of no organ, however, has
been discovered in animals ; all were pointed out in man ; and
certainly can only be attained, by confining observations to individ-
uals of the same kind, and above all, to individuals of great talent
or very marked character. Some facts, in the comparative phys-
iology of the brain, have been pointed out by agriculturists, horse-
jockeys, and others, in difi'erent individuals of the same species.
Peasants find that horses with large foreheads are more docile than
those with small, and therefore put them at the head of the team.
Jockeys distinguish biting and stubborn horses by the configuration
of the forehe~d. These observations, however, on the different
forms of the head, with their consequences, were made without
their causes being inquired into, which really consist in the greater
or smaller developement of peculiar cerebral parts. In fact, com-
parative anatomy shows that in the lowest animals the brain is very
simple, and in the more perfect, more complex. The comparative
anatomy and physiology of the brain, then, may contribute greatly
to determine the organs. .Many animals are mutilated, so to speak,.
by nature ; and it is not necessary to effect this by means of the
scalpel, to determine the functions of the cerebral organs. Dr.
Vimont has pursued this object with great assiduity and success.
The anatomy of the brain, in particular, confirms us in estab-
lishing the organs~ First, the bundles which constitute them are
distinct, and their plurality, consequently, is as evident as the plu-
rality of the faeulties. .Moreover, some faculties are very potent
and have a great sphere of activity, while others are very weak;.
the size of the respective organs harmoniz.es with this fact. It is
known, for instance, that the feelings act with greater energy than
the intellectual faculties, and anatomy exhibits a corresponding,
difference in the quantity of apparatus apportioned. to each sort of
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 99
function. Anatomy also shows, that the various cerebral parts are
not simultaneously developed, exactly as the manifestations of the
mind start not at the same period into action. In short, the struc-
ture of the brain, as of every other part, harmonizes with its func-
tion. In an appendix to the Anatomy of the Brain I have speci-
fied the individual organs, and shown the difference between
healthy brain, and that of an idiot, and that of an ourang outang.
The diseases and injuries of the brain may also be made a means
of determining the functions of its individual parts ; but I have
already observed, that it is, at least, a very uncertain one, there-
fore, secondary and indecisive, though interesting, when combined
with others more direct. In treating of the particular organs, I
shall make use of m·guments drawn from this source, without, how-
ever, maintaining that it is possible to point out peculiar office?
solely by its. aid. Mental alienations, and especially partial insan-
ities, monomanire, and the state of idiocy, are much more available
than accidental injuries of the brain. In idiots from birth, the
brain is either small or distended by water. In partial insanities,
- the organs whose functions are most deranged, are commonly more
developed than the rest ; whoever manifests a certain sentiment or
intellectual faculty with peculiar energy will, in a state of great ex-
citement, exhibit this faculty predominantly. I never saw one in-
sane from pride, without great developement of the organ of self-
esteem. It seems to me, however, that very great developement
of a particular organ is not indispensably necessary to impress its
peculiar character upon every partial insanity ; for any part of the
body, in general, and of the brain in particular, may grow more
irritable than the rest ; the energy, therefore, of each cerebral organ
may increase, and produce partial insanity.
In may cases of monomanire, the part of the head, where the
diseased organ is situated, is found hot. The heads of different
nations offer a study of great importance. Several anatomists and
physiologists have endeavored to point out and to fix particular
national forms of head. Their observations, though very defective,
are still rather in favor of, than in opposition to, our physiology of
100 PHRENOLOGY.
the brain. The foreheads of negroes are narrow, and their rnusi~
cal and mathematical talents are, in general, very limited. The
Chinese are fond of colors, and have the eyebrows much vaulted.
According to Blumenbach, the heads of the Kalmucks are depres~
sed from above, but very large laterally, about the organ which
gives the inclination to acquire, and this nation's propensity to
steal, &c., is admitted. In like manner, the modes of thinking and
feeling of different nations may be compared with the state of their
peculiar cerebral organs, indicated by peculiarity of cranial config~
uration. It is obvious that here I could only speak of the greater
number of individuals in every nation, and the general type of their
heads ; for the modifications are in all countries infinite ; generally
speaking, however, there are nations whose heads are longer or
shorter, higher or lower, narrower or broader, &c. Many valua-
ble observations might be made by those who visit distant coun..
tries. Let us hope that they will pay, at least, as much attention
to the study of man, as to that of animals and plants, as soon as
they are convinced of the influence exercised by the brain on the
manifestations of the mind. The study of national heads is quite
in its infancy. Blumenbach, has published on this interesting sub-
ject, without perceiving the least connexion bet\veen cerebral de~
velopement and mental dispositions. The same reproach may be
addressed to Mr. Bory de Saint Vincent, and others who treat of
national configurations and primitive races. Blumenbach admits
five varieties and de Saint Vincent sixteen.
It is easy to prove by positive facts that the Caucasian race as
well as the Ethiopian of Blumenbach must be subdivided into va-
rious families, and I firmly believe that the same will be shown in
reference to the othet· races described by Blumenbach as soon as
naturalists \vill pay more attention to this branch of Anthropology.*
* First, in order to assist travellers in their phrenological observations, I pro-
.vse the following proceedings. Let them attend to the general constitution of
the body. Second, to the general size and form of the head. Third, to the
usual description of the face and its parts; as nose, mouth, chin. Fourth, to the
relative developement of the three lobes of the brain corresponding to the occipiJ
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 101
There is still another means of pointing out or of confirming the
'Organs : pathognomy, mimicry, or the natural language. Every
internal sentiment is proclaimed outwardly by certain motions of
the head, body or limbs, and such external manifestations are the
constant and inevitable results of activity of the internal faculties.
They are, also, essentially the same in all nations and at all times.
I shall not here enter on the principles of the doctrine of external
signs indicating into activity. . I intend to treat of it separately. [
here mention only one principle having relation to the seat of the
organs; the motions are always conformable to the position of each.
If, for instance, an organ situated in the posterior part of the brain
be active, the general motions \vill be backward ; and if in the
forehead, they will be forward, &c.
By all these means continually employed to multiply observa-
tions, the function of every organ may be determined, or the or-
gan of every mental faculty discovered. It is known that physi-
cal science, in general, improves in proportion·as experiments and
observations that relate to it, are repeated. I continue to collect
facts and invite others to do the same, and as the number of obser-
vations in favor of almost all organs is immense, we consider them
as established, and we must be permitted to insist upon the cor-
tal, middle, and frontal regions of the head. Fifth, to the relative elevation and
breadth of the head. Sixth, to the relative developemcnt of the basilar and sinci-
pital regions. Seventh, to the relative size of the organs of the animal feelings
of the human sentiments, and of the intellectual faculties. To that effect, let a
line be drawn from the anterior edge ofconstructiveness at the temples, upwards
to the temporal ridge, and continued along this ridge to the middle of the upper
border ofcautiousness, and then towards the mesial line of the head, between the
organs of conscientiousness, and love of approbation, and terminate between self-
esteem and firmness. The portion ofbrain below and behind this line contains
the organs of the aruma! feelings. If another line be drawn from the anterior
edge of constructiveness in the direction of the upper border of tune, causality
and comparison, the cerebral portion between the two lines is the seat of the hu-
man sentiments, and the portion before the second line, is the forehead, strictly
speaking, and the residence of the intellectual faci1Ities. Eighth, to the relative
size of the perceptive and reflective faculties. Ninth, and lastly, to the particular
developement or defect of the special organs. Four degress of developement may
be designated, viz. 1, predominant, 2, large, 3, moderate, 4, small.
102 PHRENOLOGY.
rectness of our conclusions so long as no contrary facts prove that
we are mistaken.
It is often said that our observations are not numerous enough
to bear out our conclusions. Those who make that objection can
only speak from mere supposition, without the least idea of the
numberless facts which we have observed. They ought simply to
bring forth contrary facts, or remain silent, in a science they have
not examined and have no desire to examine. Hitherto it is cer-
tain that all those who have inquired into nature herself, whether
their motive was to confirm or to refute Phrenology, have been
convinced of its reality.
It is also objected, that the organs cannot be verified, because
our conclusions are drawn only from individual facts. But this is
the case with every physical truth. No physician has observed
every fact ; no anatomist has seen the viscera of every human be-
ing. Yet, reliance on the stability of natural laws bids us admit
all physical truths, and infer the structure and position of the viscera
to be the same in individuals who have not been opened, as in
those who have.
It has even been said, that our observations might be true in one
country and not in another. Our travels have refuted this objec-
tion, which is contrary to common sense, since mankind is the
same in all countries. It is quite impossible to quote the whole
of the facts already collected. I can only speak of results, or gen-
eral deductions from them. :Moreover, no one can arrive at per-
sonal or individual conviction without having made similar observa-
tions. Gall admonished his auditors not to attempt practising
Phrenology on account of its difficulty ; I on the contrary invite
every inquirer to repeat the observations in order to obtain self-
conv1ct1on. Yet every one should consider it a duty to be well
acquainted with Phrenology, before making any application of it,
and be aware that every error impedes its progress. Many be-
ginners proceed with too much confidence in their phrenological
knowledge, and scarcely doubt of their being liable to mistakes.
Let it be remembered, that on my side I can only show what is to
·.
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 103
be observed and how it is to be done. I endeavor to advance
nothing that may not be seen and appreciated by every other per-
son, but then I do not listen to objections grounded upon reasoning
alone, and without observation as a basis; one fact is to me
more positive and decisive than a thousand metaphysical opinions.
I with Mr. Abernethy, * think that when 'books of this kind are
published, mutual forbearance is requisite on the part both of the
writer and the reader. The former should l1ot expect his work
to be approved of, till the latter has examined whether his rep-
resentation is correct, and his conclusions legitimately drawn from
the facts he has observed and collected. Neither should the read-
er condemn the work till he has examined the subject, and is, in
consequence, able to point out the errors of the premises or con-
clusions. The author's view of a subject may, indeed, be correct-
ly formed fi·om the facts which he himself has witnessed, but it
may differ from that which more extensive experience would have
suggested. For this difference no blame can properly be attached
to him ; he relates what has fallen under his own observation, and
invites others to attend to the same facts.' I really think that eve-
ry one who, without prejudice, may take the trouble to examine and
to repeat our o!>servations, will be convinced of the solidity of our
principles of the physiology of the brain, the certainty of which, then,
will be like that of physiology in general, but not mathematical.
From the preceding considerations it follows, that Gall compar-
ed the size of the cerebral parts with very energetic actions, and
with determinate characters, in order to discover the organs of the
mind. All functions, however, differ not only in quality but also
in quantity, and there are, undoubtedly, several organic conditions
which contribute to bestow energy and to modify them individually.
But, the size of the organs is the most easily observed condition,
and therefore attended to as a means of pointing out the cerebral
organs. The reader then must remember that in endeavoring to
discover the organs of the mind, in other words, to determine the
nature of the functions of the cerebral masses, their size suffices,
*Surgical Observations on Local Diseases, London, 1809, Pref. p. vii.
104 PHRENOLOGY.
though the organic constitution, or the temperament of the cerebral
organs, is another very important condition to their natural energy.
I never neglect to observe it, and they are therefore mistaken who
object that we pay no attention to the organic constitution of the
cerebral parts, since it is in fact a leading point with us, that every
fundamental faculty must be compared with its appropriate organ,
not in individuals of different kinds, not even in individuals of the
same species, but iri the same individual. This doctrine is ex-
pressed in all my publications, and the critical reviewers had no
right to state the contrary, and to combat their misstatement as our
assertions. If we examine the different degrees of activity of the
cerebral organs, it is necessary to consider not only their size and
organic constitution, but also the exercise every faculty has under-
gone, and the mutual influence of the whole.
It is denied that the natural energy of the mental functions de-
pends on the size and organic constitution of the cerebral organs.
1Ve have merely to answer, that experience favors our proposition.
It may even be shown that the law, under which inorganic and
organic bodies manifest their properties, in relation to their size, is
quite general and pervades nature. A large loadstone attracts a
greater mass of iron, than a small one. The fermentation of liquids
is more energetic as their quantity is considerable. Large muscles
in the same person, are stronger than small. If the nerves of
the external senses be larger on one side of the body than on
the other, the functions are also stronger on that side. Soemmer-
ring discovered that the optic nerve of man, is larger than tharof
any animal in proportion to the eyeball, and that the nerves of the
muscles which assist the external senses are unquestionably thick-
er than those of the other muscles. Why should not the same law,
that energy of function depends on size, hold good in regard to the
cerebral organs ? Nevertheless, by reason of internal constitution,
we confine our observations entirely to individuals in obtaining the
first notions of any organ. I even admit the possibility of the in-
ternal constitution of the different cerebral organs varying in the
same individual, for instance it seems that the intellectual organs
MEANS OF DETERMINING THE ORGANS. 105
have more energy in proportion to their size, than the organs of the
affective faculties ; and the optic nerve may be more irritable than
the auditory or the olfactory ; yet, it is quite certain that in the
same person, great difference in the size of the cerebral parts pro-
duces a difference in the manifestations of the respective powers.
Indeed, the divers parts of the brain are differently developed ; one
is large, another small, and experience has convinced us that the
functions of parts much developed, are manifested with more ener-
gy than those of others which are comparatively smaller.
Thus, Gall, myself, and all phrenologists, determine the nature
of the cerebral functions by the size of the individual parts, never
confounding the nature of the functions with their different degrees
of energy. The region of the intellectual organs may be compar-
ed with that of the affective powers, and the basilar region with
the sincipital. Then fonr degrees of cerebral developement may be
pointed out in every region, viz., the largest, the smallest, and two
intermediate degrees, or in other words, the predominant, large,
moderate, and small organs.
Now, the question, whether it is possible, during life, to distin-
guish the developement of the cerebral parts in man and animals
immediately presents itself. This question, however, must be
separated from another, viz., what is the cause of the form and size
of the head ? This latter is important to general physiology, but
its investigation forms no essential part of practical phrenology,
which only requires certainty on the possibility of knowing the size
of the cerebral parts, without being held to examine the causes of
their developement. To the first question we must reply differ-
ently in regard to comparative anatomy, for it is not always possi-
ble to compare one animal with another, or animals with man. It
is also necessary, in animals and in man, to consider the period of
life. In the human kind it is at one time easy to determine the
size of the cerebral organs; sometimes, however, circumstances
render it difficult ; and, fina1ly, in certain cases, it is impossible.
Considerations in relation to these points constitute, strictly
speaking, the doctrine of the skull, or Craniology, and form the
subject of the next section. 14
106 PHRENOLOGY.
SECTION VI.
Craniology.
THIs name designates the doctrine of the skull, but by no
means the whole of our inquiries ; it can be used in the latter sense,
only by those who wish to depreciate phrenology. I subdivide
craniology into two chapters. In the first, I examine the cause of
the form and size of the head ; and, in the second, the possibility of
det~rmining the size of the cerebral organs. Here I speak only of
the human kind, but these researches may be extended to every
species of animal.
CHAPTER I.
Cause of the form, and size of the Head.
WHETHER the skull or the brain determines the form of the
head, is a common question. In its illustration, I shall consider
man both in a state of health and afflicted with disease. The
brain of the fretus in utero exists before it is surrounded by a bony
case ; it is covered. with a fourfold m'embraneous coat : the pia
mater, which adheres closely to its substance; the tunica arach-
noides or arachnoid coat, which has this name from the extreme
tenuity of its texture ; the dura mater, which consists of two sep-
arable layers ; and a cartilaginous membrane, in which ossification
takes place. This fourfold membraneous coat envelopes the brain,
and represents its external form exactly.
Ossification commences at different places or points, and ex-
tends from these in radii to the extent required by the size and
form of the cerebral parts which are to be included. The bony
!adiations meet nearer or more distantly from the points whence
,
CRANIOLOGY. 107
they sprung, and constitute the individual bones, of which the reg-
ular and connected as3emblage forms the skull. At birth, there
are, commonly, eight bones ; viz., two frontal, which, for the
most po.rt, soon unite and form one ; there are adults, howevel ,
whose fro!ltal boP..e is divided ; two parie~al, two temporal, one
sphenoidal, one occipital, and one ethmoidal. These, in a;ter-
life, are connected by sutures or arti~ulatiors, and ther. complete a
bony case called skull. In new-born children, generally, the ap-
proaching angles of the frontal and parietal bones are not ossified,
but membraneous, and the space left between them is called fon-
tanel. All the bones are at this time very thin and most perfectly
accommodated to the form and size of the brain. It may here be
asked, whether any difference as to the size and shape of brain
be perceptible in the fcetus ? Socmmerring has replied in the
affirmative ; Gall and I are also of the same opinion, and hold, that
the heads of fcetus are as indubitably different as those of grown-
up persons.
Moreover, it may be demanded whether the form of the head is
changed during the birth; and also whether it is possible for midwives
to give it an arbitrary form by compression in any way? The head
of the feetus when long detained in the passages in difficult labors,
is often much compressed. Nature, however, has taken particular
care of the brain, even under these circumstances ; for the dura
mater which envelopes it, adheres to the skull firmly, and pre\'ents
the edges of the bones from passing over each other. The pro-
longations of the dura mater, known under the names falciform pro-
cess and tentorium, contribute equally to its security; and further,
the skull forms an arch, of all forms that which best resists oppos-
ing forces. The brain is also a living part, and is naturally elastic.
The tumors commonly observed on the upper part of new-born
children's heads, are mere accumulations of blood, the consequen-
ces of interrupted circulation ; after a few hours or days this is
absorbed, and the swelling disappears entirely. Transient and
not very violent pressure, therefore, does not change the primitive
form of the brain. Excessive, it will undoubtedly derange its
108 PHRENOLOGY.
organization ; and less violent but permanent, will alter its natural
from, hinder its developement, and certainly injure the manifesta~
tions of the mind. If individuals, whose brains are compressed,
do not become idiots, their faculties will at least be impaired.
It happens sometimes that the bones of the skull do not touch at
birth, and then the brain is compressed during parturition, and the
child dies. This fact should be known and considered when an
unfortunate woman is accused of having murdered her offspring.
It will be obvious, that though in ordinary cases great violence
\Vould be necessary to compress the brain, yet, in effecting deliv-
ery with the forceps, this may readily happen, and the texture of
the brain be injured ; in which event the manifestations of the mind
would be injured also. These observations show, that up to the
period of birth, the form and size of the head depend on the brain.
From this epoch the skull gains hardness and solidity, and some
may ask, does the hard skull then yield to the soft brain ? If \Ve
compare a child's with an adult's skull, that of the adult will be
perceived to be much larger than that of the child ; the skull, con-
sequently, increases in capacity in proportion as the brain augments
in volume. :Moreover, all the cerebral parts do not arrive at their
complete growth simultaneously ; a similar law may be observed in
regard to the developement of the skull. The forehead, for in-
stance, which at birth is narrow and flat, widens and grows more
prominent from the age of three months till that of eight or ten
years; afterwards, its middle part does not appear so much devel-
oped as it had in early infancy. Children's necks are very small;
for the cerebellum wl1ich increases at a very late period, is situated
in the inferior occipital fossre; in proportion as it grows, however,
the skull projects externally. This law is quite general.
Some explain the growth of the skull by supposing the brain
to act in a mechanical way. This idea is incorrect. "\Vere the
brain exposed to the least compression, its functions would be
deranged. The phenomenon of growth, in fact, results from the
changes which every organic body unceasingly undergoes. There
is a perpetual process of decomposition and reproduction going on
CRANIOLOGY. 109
in living beings;-the matter which constitutes our body, continually
evacuated by excretion, is replaced by new matter furnished by
alimentation. Like all other parts of our body, the brain and skull
are subjected to this process ; and, according to the natural law of
relation established between the skull and brain, the brain has an
influence on the directions in which bony matter is to be deposited
to form the skull. If the whole of the brain or some part in-
crease or decrease, the ossification still follows the size and form
assumed. Hard parts, indeed, are generally adapted to the size
and form of the soft ones they enclose. In consumption, if one
side of the lungs alone be affected, the ribs of that side sink down.
If the eye be extirpated, the orbit becomes smaller ; and if, on the
contrary, it grow carcinomatous, the orbit enlarges as the eye-ball
increases in size. Precisely so does the internal table of the skull
follow the brain in its size and general configuration.
Let us now cast an eye on the changes produced by old age on
the brain and skull. The cerebral parts begin to diminish ; the con-
volutions, which in youth were plump and well nourished, are flac-
cid, shrivelled, and no longer packed closely together. In pro-
portion as the brain or its parts decrease, they are followed by the
internal table of the skull, in conformity with the law of nutrition,
of which I have just spoken. Frequently the external table to the
end of life preserves the form and size it had at the period of ma-
turity; the skull, in consequence, either becomes very thick, or the
two tables are far separated from each other. The orbitary plate
of the frontal bone is commonly thin and transparent, yet, in old
persons, whose brain has diminished in size, it sometimes happens,
that the two tabJes of which it consists are separated ; the inner
having receded to a great distance from the outer. From these
data it results, that the form of the skull is the consequence of that
of the brain ; that from the commencement of ossification till death
the internal table of the skull is moulded after the fashion of the
brain ; and that in extreme old age the two tables are often separa-
ted, and the bone thus rendered thicker than it was at the age of
maturity. .,. ~~ .. I'
110 PHRENOLOGY.
Diseased or imperfect state of thP brain also proved this position
relative to the contents of the head producing the form of the skull.
· In those idiots from birth, whose brains have never increased in
size, the skull always remains small, (Pl. ii. fig. 1;) on the con-
trary, if the head be distended by water, the skull participates in
the expansion, either generally or in particular situations. (Pl. i.
figs. 1. and 2.) Portions ofbone depressed by external violence, are
often replaced in their first levels by the action of the brain. Fun-
gi of the dura mater also cause the absorption of the skull rather
t~1an of the brain, for they pierce it and appear externally. All,
therefore, concurs to prove that the form and size of the brain
essentially contribute to regulate the form and size of the skull. I
do not, however, deny, that in some diseases of the skull, the ossi-
fic process may be primitively altered, the brain impeded in its de-
velopement and injured in its functions. This may happen in some
children who die under convulsions from an inflammation of the
brain when the blood is carried in too great quantity to the brain,
and the absorption and increase of the skull are not quick enough.
It is an error to suppose that the impressions wbich correspond
to the cerebral convolutions, and the blood vessels of the dura ma-
ter on the internal surface of the skull, are the result of mechanical
pressure. These grooves are the effect of the absorbent vessels.
The impressions called ,digital, occur when the dura mater is very
thin. This, in man, occurs commonly at the basis : in individuas,
however, who die of consumption, the dura mater is sometimes
observed of peculiar delicacy and thinness over a much greater ex-
tent, and then the pits pervade almost the whole of the internal
surfac·.e of the skull, as in the greater number of mammiforous
animals.
OBJECTIONS.
Several opinions relative to the size and form of the head are
quoted as objections to the position, that in t~e healthy state the
form of the head depends on that of the brain.
CRANIOLOGY. Ill
I.
Waher, Rudolphi, and others, maintain that a nisus formativus,
or formative power, determines the ossification and consequent
shape of the skull. The ossification of the skull is certainly not an
effect of the presence of the brain ; the bone is secreted by par-
ticular vessels, which have the power of modifying the internal con-
stitution of the skull. The earthy particles are, nevertheless, de-
posited in a cartilaginous coat, having the form and size of the brain.
Yet, we must here allow, that when the brain is impeded in its
developement, and 'vater collected between it and the dura mater,
the form of the skull is still similar to that which it would have pre-
sented had the brain been in a natural and healthy state, or been
distended by water accumulated within its cavities. In treating
of hydrocephalus, Section III., I have quoted several cases, in ·
which it was impossible to decide by external appearances where
the water was accumulated. It seems to me, that the processes
or prolongations of the dura mater, called tentorium and falciform
process, contribute greatly to determine the form of the head in
these cases.
II.
Hufeland remarked, that the form of the head might probably
be changed in the countries where burdens are borne on the head.
Now, in the first place, very young children bear none ; and, be-
fore they begin to do so, their skulls are fully ossified and capable
of great resistance. Secondly, those who bear burdens on the
head, use cushions or rolls, so that pressure is received, not on the
top of the head nor on any one point, but diffused over a large sur-
face, including even the lateral parts ; consequently, the head can-
not be flattened from such a cause. Moreover, the head is free
from burdens during the greater part of life. Finally, this opinion
is refuted not only in theory, hut also by experience. Gall and I
112 PHRENOLOGY.
examined many individuals who had carried loads on their heads
from youth up to mature years and old age, and whose heads were,
nevertheless, much higher than those of others who had never
borne any burden whatever.
III.
It is objected that, in America, several tribes of savages give
arbitrary forms to the heads of their children. I pretend not to
say that such reports are false, but I am far from being satisfied
with what has been said of the Caribs to that purpose. I have
seen several sku11s of Caribs ; they were all low and laterally ex-
tended, particularly at the temporal bones ; yet they presented as
marked diversities as the sku11s of any European nation could do.
I have also seen skulls of Europeans equally low. The upper
surface of all the Caribean skulls is variously vaulted, and bears,
except in one, no marks of modelling from the pressure of a smooth
and level board.
I have interrogated several gentlemen who had been in the island
of St. Vincent, to gain information on the attempts of the Caribs
to deform themselves. The accounts were all in contradiction to
each other, and I am still in a state of complete uncertainty.
In reference to the cause producing the configuration of the Ca-
ribean skull, I have farther reason to doubt. Throughout Europe,
the foreheads even of new-born children are higher and more
prominent than those of adult Caribs. Caribs are, therefore, either
born with foreheads as low as we see in the skulls, and their farther
developement is prevented by artificial pressure ; or their foreheads
are higher from birth, and are afterwards flattened or depressed by
art. I have heard various statements as to the period during which
the board is applied to the head : one gentleman told me that it is
worn for six weeks only ; another assured me that it is borne six
months ; a third, that it is kept on during two years. Admitting.
the last period to be correct, I am no"
t yet convinced of the reality
of its pretended effect on the configuration of the forehead. At
CRANIOLOGY. 113
two years of age, the cerebral parts situated there have not acquir-
ed their full developement ; the foreheads of Caribs, when arrived
at maturity of years, must certainly be larger than when still in in-
fancy. Now, as the constituent particles of the brain and skull, as
well as of the rest of the body, are changed perpetually, and as
pressure is not continued during after-life, the future developement
of the brain might go on unimpeded.
Notwithstanding these skeptical observations, it is certain that
various ancient tribes in America gave to their heads artificial forms,
and that the flat-headed Indians of North America owe the depres-
sion of their heads to artificial means, and that a constant pressure
alters the shape of the skull. I even consider this a question of
the highest importance ; and I certainly do greatly wish that it
were possible to prevent, by artificial pressure, the growth of cer-
tain parts of the brain. But in examining flat-headed Indians after
death, or in instituting in animals a series of experiments on the
effects of pressure upon the configuration of the skull and the or-
ganization of the brain it \Vould be necessary to observe, whether
the developement of the cerebral parts was entirely impeded, or
whether the compressed parts increased in another direction, so
that the form of the head alone was altered.
IV.
A great number of anatomists and physiologists maintain that the
form of the head is modified by its muscles, and that several eleva-
tions ascribed to the developement of the subjacent brain are effects
of muscular action. There are, indeed, many bony processes on
the skull, but they are effects neither of cerebral developement nor
of muscular action : these elevations are for the insertion of mus-
cles. I here speak only of those forms and of those protuberances
of the skull which I consider as corresponding to developement of
brain.
Those who assert the influence of the muscles upon the form of
15
114 PHRENOLOGY.
the head, do not agree about their effects : some maintain that they
deprzss the orga.Is ; others, that they produce elevations. It is
easy, however, to prove that they have not the slightest influence
on the form of the skull.
If the muscles really did determine the form of the skull, they
ought, obviously, to act in th~ direction of their insertions ; and
the protuberances of the occiput and sides of the head ought then
to be directed downwards, not backwards and sidewise. There
ought also to be some proportion between the size of these protu-
berances anrl the strength of the muscles inserted into them ; but
it often happens that large protuberances correspond to weak mus-
cles, and vice t•ersa. Negroes, indeed, hmre larger masticating
muscles than Europeans, and their heads are also narrower across
the temporal region. From this fact some anatomists have con-
cluded that the muscles compress the skull. At variance with
this, however, we see that wl:ile the basilar region of the skull,
c·:wered witl:l muscles, is narro'i.Yer than the upper in children, it is
quite the contrary in adults. Europeans who have very weak
masticating muscles and wide head.s, and others who have strong
muscles and mirrow heads may be met with every day. Lions,
tigers, hyenas, and dogs, are much narrower at the temples than
oxen, horses, stags, &c.; the former, it is true, have stronger mas-
ticating muscles than the latter, but women have weaker muscles
and narrower heads, whilst men have stronger muscles and wider
skulls.
Moreover, according to the hypothesis which I am combating,
the muscles ought to act. upon the external table of the skull, and
make it recede from the internal, yet the two are absolutely so
near at the places where muscles are inserted, that the skull be-
comes transparent. It sometimes happens that the skull grows
thick in old persons, or in consequence of chronic diseases of the
brain, because the internal plate shrinking, diminishes the cavity
of the skull, while the external one preserves its elevation and form.
The processes or depressions of the skull ought, also, to be not
only proportionate to the strength of the muscles, but likewise to
CRANIOLOGY. ll5
the time during which they have acted - circumstances which,
however, are not observed. And were the protuberances or de-
pressions produced by the muscles, they ought to be conformable
to the forms of their insertion ; but what muscle can produce the
figure of the organs we have indicated, as of amativeness, destruc-
tiveness, constructiveness, &c.? The form of these protuberances,
in fact, always corresponds to that of the cerebral parts, whose
great developement occasions them.
Besides, there are many protuberances \Vhere no muscles are
attached, as those \vhich indicate firmness, veneration, benev-
olence, self-esteem, and circumspection. "\Vhat muscle draws the
skull outwards in the direction of those eminences ? In many ani-
mals, as in the hog, ox, elephant, &c., the tables of the skull are
far separated, but the cells fanned in the interval are irregular, and
never correspond to the insertion of muscles. If the muscles arise
from the interior of the skull, as in the tortoise, the head ought to
be small and contracted, and the orbit of the higher animals ought
by degrees to grow smaller ; as there are muscles attached to
its internal surface. Neither of these circcms~ances, however,
occurs.
Finally, in the fcetual state, muscles do not act with fcrce
enough to influence in any way the form of the head ; which, bow-
ever, differs as much as in adult age. Thus it is evident, that
muscles do not determine the form of the skull.
v.
Professor Ackermann, of Heidelberg, thought that the frontal
sinuses of man, and the cells between the tables of the skulls of
animals, were produced during inspiration; the air, according to
him, gradually distending them. He maintained that very active
individuals who take much exercise in walking and running. have
larger sinuses than l(.$ual, and that animals which live in th.; upen
air, and inspire a great deal of it, have the greater number of cells
116 PHRENOLOGY.
in their skulls. Several considerations, however, prove this asser-
tion, which is not grounded upon experiments, but hypothetically
advanced, to be erroneous.
The possibility of the air exerting any distensi~r·e power, suppos-
es a great cavity already existing, into which it must be received ;
but how has this space between the two tables of the skulls been
first produced ? Let us, however, admit the sinuses formed and
the air drawn into them, and then ask, what may be its action ?
Ackermann imagines that, being warmed, it distends the cells by
expanding. Is it not, hon,.ever, more probable that it would rather
escape by the aperture through which it had entered, than act with
such force as to distend them ? Even supposing that the air did
distend the cells, they ought to be like bladders, and not angular,
as they are. :Moreover, they do not all communicate; there are
also cells in the bones of the extremities, even in the fretus, to
which the air never penetrates ; why then should not cells be also
originally formed between the tables of the skull ? Finally, Pro-
fessor Ackermann's opinion is a mere supposition. I know indi-
viduals of sedentary habits who have large sinuses, and others who
live much in the open air and have none. The ox, too, and hog
have larger cranial cells than the stag, roe, and reindeer ; the lazy
owl, than the active eagle ; and the stork, wild duck, wild goose
and swallow, have none whatever, notwithstanding their frequent
and rapid flights. Ackermann's opinion, therefore, falls to the
ground.
In concluding this chapter, I repeat that these considerations on
the cause of the size and form of the head are interesting to physi-
ologists, but are in nowise connected with phrenology as a practi-
cal science. The business of phrenology is to show, that there is
a relation between the manifestations of feelings and intellectual
faculties, and size and form of cerebral parts; and that the size of
the cerebral parts can be distinguished by the external configura-
tion of the head. Let us then examine, in detail, this second
point of craniology.
CRANIOLOGY. 117
CHAPTER II.
It is in general possible to distinguish the size of the Brain and its
Parts, by examining the external Surface of the Head or Skull.
THIS proposition is to be regarded under three points of view.
First, it is possible and even easy to distinguish the size of the
cerebral organs ; secondly, we meet with various difficulties and
obstacles to this ; and, thirdly, it is sometimes impossible.
Pos3ibility of distinguishing the Size of the Brain and its parts.
This study must be begun by acquiring exact notions of the dif-
ferent forms and sizes of heads in general, and of their particular
regions; the common, too large, (Pl. /.fig. 1 and 2,) or too small
size of a head, (Pl. II. fig. 1,) must be known. The antiques can
only be made use of with certain restrictions, for they are generally
colossal. It is remarkable, however, that their form and size vary
universally. 'Vhat a difference, for instance, bet\veen the heads
of women and men, of gladiators, high-priests, philosophers, great
poets, generals, and others. It is evident that the ancient artists
understood the animal, moral, and intellectual, regions of the
head.
The next point should be to acquire precise ideas of the differ-
ence between the size and shape of the head and of the skull. The
skull in all its dimensions is smaller, but still preserves the general
figure of the head unimpaired.
The skull, as I have said already, is composed of two tables, be-
tween which lies a cellular spongy mass, called diploe. These
tables, scarcely perceptible in infancy, are distinct in adults, but
their distance is so very inconsiderable, that, in general, up to the
period when the brain begins to diminish in size, it is not only pos-
sible, but easy, to determine its size and form by examining the
skull,-for there is never any space between the skull and the brain,
118 PHRENOLOGY
and, as I have smd, the two tables are not sufficiently distant to
oppose any obstacle to accuracy.
It is however objected, that, because the tables are not parallel,
it is impossible to measure the size and form of the brain and its
parts from the size and form of the skull. This objection falls to
the ground as soon as our procedure is known. It is by no means
necessary to appreciate very minute differences of size, in order
to determine the developement of the cerebral organs. These oc·
cupy extensive surfaces, and ai'e of very d'ifferent volumes between
their lowest and highest states of developement in the different re·
gions. Let it be understood, that the idea of size of organs, is not
to be confounded with the notion of protuberances. Every indi·
vidual in the healthy state has all the organs ; the only point to be
determined, is, whether the whole brain, or one, or several of its
parts, be large or small, and the mutual relations of the organs are
to be borne in mind. If one be much, and those in its neighbor·
hood very little developed, the large organ presents a protuber-
ance ; but if tl-.e neighboring ones be proportionally de\'e!op0d, the
surface remains smooth. Now this may happen whether the or-
gans are sriJall or large. ft is also necessary not to confound bony
excrescences and irregular elevations with those protuberances
which indicate developement of particular organs. Moreover, it is
necessary to know those bony elevations which occur regularly, as
the mastoid process behind the ear, the spina cruciata of the occi-
put, the zygomatic process before the ear, &c., and which are no
indication of cerebral developement. It may be well to state, that
it is not always necessary to touch the head to ascertain the size
and form of the cerebral organization ; the size and sense of sight
often suffices. The size of the organs situated in the forehead, is
even more easily distinguished by sight than by touch. It is neces· ,.,
sary to feel the organs only \vhich are covered with hair.
Finally, the developement of the cerebral organs differs in regard
to length and breadth ; for the fibres which compose them are
sometimes thick and short, sometimes thick and long, or slender
and short, or slender and long. This difference of developement
CRANIOLOGY. 119
must have some influence on the manifestations of the faculties.
Long fibres seem to produce more activity, and thick fibres more
intensity.
II. D~fficulties of distinguishing the Size of certain Parts of the
Brain.
...
Every science has its difficulties, and Phrenology is not exempt
from them. They are more or less important, and more or less
easily overcome. Platner, of Leipzig, has said, that the size of
the organs situated in the middle line of the head cannot be deter-
mined, as the longitudinal sinus runs there. But this venous ca-
nal is too small, to prevent the developement of the organs on each
side of it from being ascertained, for they are much broader. The
hemispheres of the brain being sometimes a little separated, there is
then a slight groove along its course. The organs of philoprogen-
itiveness, self-esteem, and firmness are frequently found with a
channel in their middle. He who knows Phrenology, however,
cannot be misled by this.
In appreciating the size of the organs on the sides of the head,
particularly of constructiveness, acquisitiveness, and secretiveness,
the thickness of muscle which covers them must be taken into ac-
count, and ascertained by touch. Large temporal muscles may be
supposed if those of the face in general are bulky. Those who be-
gin to practice Phrenology, find a difficulty in the frontal sinus,
and many adversaries even maintain that it is impossible to deter-
mine the state of the cerebral parts situated behind it. This ob-
jection is particularly applied to the organs of individuality, size,
weight, and locality. The first thing to be known, and which truly
<'COncerns Phrenology, is to ascertain how far the size ofthe cerebral,
parts situated about and above the root of the nose, can be distin-
guished by the external appearance of the head or skull. It is evi-
dent that the difficulty in question is confined to a small portion of
the forehead, and cannot be reasonably objected against Phrenol-
ogy in general. Farther, it is important to conceive a clear idea
120 PHRENOLOGY.
of the meaning of sinus. This expression means hole. Now any
opponent, possessing a skull with frontal holes, thinks himself au-
thorized, or flatters himself to be able, to set up the whole of Phre-
nology without showing the circumstances of the skull in his pos-
sessron.
There is sometimes a hole or empty space bet\veen the two ta-
bles of the skull in the forehead, though they are not more, and of-
ten even less, distant from each other than in others where the same
part of the forehead is filled up with diploe. Now such holes can-
not be considered as a difficulty in the study of Phrenology. The
essential point to be considered is the distance between the t\vo
tables of the skull. This is little in young children and increases
with age. It happens, also, that in adults a bony crest is perceiv-
ed at the edge of the superciliary arch, which, evidently, cannot
be taken as an indication of cerebral developernent whether it be
hollow or filled up with diploe. Now, if in these two sorts of
cases, we make abstraction of the external crest, the internal table
will not be found more inward, than in other perSO!JS of the same
age, whose foreheads do not present such a crest.
'Vhen the intellectual faculties, principa1ly the perceptive pow-
ers, lose their energy, and in chronic insanity the brain and inter-
nal table of the skull often retreat, whilst the external appearance of
the forehead remains unchanged ; and in such cases it is impos-
sible to make phrenological observations. Thus, I admit that the
frontal sinus or space between the two tables of the frontal bone,'
in adults, throws some uncertainty over the state of the organs of'
individuality and size; a single difficulty, however, is not to cause
the whole of a science to be rejected ; it should only invite the
practitioner to be more careful in his decisions. But if the frontal
sinus be very large and occupy a greater part of the forehead, if
the brain had suffered from old age or from any chronic disease,
then, phrenological observations are no more possible, as will be
mentioned hereafter.
The cerebral parts, situated around and behind the orbit, also
require some care and experience on the part of the phrenologist,
CRANIOLOGY. 121
to be judged of accurately. Their developement is discoverable
from the position of the eye-ball, and from the figure of the super-
ciliary ridge. According as the eye-ball is prominent or hidden in the
orbit, depressed or pushed sidewise, inward, or outward, we may
judge of the developement of th.e organs situated around and behind it.
It may be questioned whether all organs reach the surface; and,
consequently, whether all faculties of the mind may be determined
by the size and shape of the head. There are many convolutions,
it is true, in the middle line between the two hemispheres of the
brain, and others at the basis and between the anterior and middle
lobes which do not appear on the surface; but it seems to me that
a great part, at least, of every organ does present itself there, and
farther, that all the parts of each organ are equally developed, so
· that though a portion only appear, the state of the whole may be
inferred. The whole cerebellum reaches not tbe skull, yet its
function may be determined from the part \vhich does. The cere-
bral parts, situated in the middle line bet\veen the hemispheres, seem
proportionate to t,he superincumbent convolutions ; at least, I have
always observed a proportion, in the vertical direction, between them.
The greatest difficulty is when any organ is so much developed
as to push its neighbors from the places they commonly occupy.
There are two varieties of this case ; either a single organ is ex-
tremely large, or several are very voluminous, and the surface
remains almost smooth. In the first case the difficulty is not very
great; for every organ having its own form and its particular direc-
tion, it is only necessary to recall these, in order to ascertain which
It Is. It requires more practical skill, when se\·eral neighboring
organs are almost equally developed ; but even then, the direction
of the protuberance and its most prominent point facilitate decision.
Against Phrenology it is farther objected, that though it be
possible to measure the form and size of the brain by the form and
size of the head, it is yet impossible to determine the size of the
organs by the size of the head or skull, because they are not con-
fined to the surface or to the convolutions of the brain. It is in-
deed true, that the organs are not confined to the surface of the
16
12.2 PHRENOLOGY.
brain; they extend from thence to the great swelling called corpora
striata and optic thalami, and several even to the medulla oblongata,
and they probably include the commissures; but as the peripheric
expansions of the five senses indicate the developement of their
respective nerves, so the convolutions of the brain proclaim the
developement of its whole mass. This will be understood by
analogy: animals which have a large external apparatus of smell,
large nostrils, large turbinated bones, and, consequently, a very
considerable nervous expansion upon the pituitary membrane, have
the olfactory nerve very much developed. In the same manner
the retina or expansion of the optic nerve, is in proportion to the
nerve itself; such also is the case with the organs of the feelings
and intellectual faculties. The convolutions are peripheric expan-
sions of internal nervous bundles, to which they consequently bear
proportion ; it is therefore possible to determine the whole mass
of the organs from merely viewing the convolutions.
III. Impossibility of determining the Size of the Brain.
It still remains for me to speak of those cases in which the form
and size of the brain and of its parts are not indicated by the form
and size of the head. According to a general law of organic parts,
the brain, as it has increased gradually and for a term, begins al~o,
after the periou of maturity, to decrease by degrees ; the convolu-
tions, which were plump and prominent in youth, sink and part
from each other, and ttJe composition of their parts being no longer
equal to their Jecomposition, their size diminishes. Then it is
that the slwll, as to external form and size, often remains the same,
whilst its internal table, following the brain, makes it become thick
ar1d spongy; th.:: diploe being at the same time not only more con-
siderable, but the tables less solid. Sometimes this shrinking of
the brain goes on unequally, and then the skull is very thick in one
place and very thin in others. Sometimes, also, the whole grows
thin. In these cases where the deposi£ion and ab~orption in the
bone are unequal, or the skull thin, it may happen that such skulls
CRANIOLOGY. 123
are broken or depressed by blows, whose slightness would not have
done the least harm at the age of mattrrity. Thus old and decrepit
persons cannot serve to confi..m the doctrine of Phrenology, be-
cause it is impossible to judge accurately of the size of their brain
from the size of their head, and, also, because the organs are not
very active at this age. Yet, to discover and to establish the
physiology of the brain, !t is sufficient to confine our observations
to individuals, before the flower of mature years begins to fade.
In certain cases of chronic insanity, too, the brain diminishes in
size, as other nerves do, wb€n they have been long diseased, and
the internal table follows it, \vhile the external one preserves its
usual position. These also are cases in which the size and form
of the skull do not indic::tte the size and form of the brain. The
skulls of the insane are often very thick ; but their texture is not
so generally spongy as hard, dense, at.J heavy, like ivory.
Thickening, however, is not a necessary accompaniment of theit·
augmented density and weight.
Sir E. Home, in his observations on this subject, errs in
classing together depression of the skull by external violence and
thickening of its different portions. He has no idea of cerebral
diminution as a cause of the..skull's increased thickness, but always
considers this as occasioning sueh changes as he observed in the
brain. Dr. Baillie, in his Morbid Anatomy, does the same. Yet,
disease often begins in the brain, and is propagated to the skull.
I do not deny, however, that the skull may be diseased, and exer-
cise a pernicious influence on the brain.
Researches relative to the skulls of alienated persons, though
important to physiology and pathology in general, and intimately
connected with Phrenology, are not essential to it, in as far as
determination of the functions of the brain is concerned. I even
admit, in those individuals who have been long diseased, the 1m
possibility of measuring accurately the size of the brain and Its
parts from the size and shape of the head. For farther informa-
tion relative to the causes of the density and thickness of the skulls
of the insane, I refer to my work on Insanity.
1.24 PHRENOLOGY.
SECTION VII.
Division of the Faculties of the .JJfind, and Nomenclature.
PHILOSOPHERS have, at all times, thought it necessary to make
divisions and subdivisions among the faculties of the mind. Gall
rejects all which have hitherto been conceived or admitted: the
division into instinct in animals, and understanding in man; that of
the human mind into understanding and will, and the subdivision
of understanding into attention, memory, judgment, and imagina-
tion; and of will into inclination, propensity, desire and passion.
He admits various faculties of the mind, but thinks that all manifest
the same modes of action ; he tl1erefore denied the possibility of
classing the mental powers in kinds, according to their distinctive
nature. He first speaks of the external senses and their apparatus,
and then of the internal faculties and their organs, beginning at the
basis of the brain and finishing at its summit, taking only the situa-
tion of the respective organs as a guide to the order of his descrip-
tions.
I agree with Gall, that the divisions of the mental faculties, as
hitherto established by philosophers, are incorrect, but I do not
think with him, that the cerebral organs are susceptible of the same
modes of action. I conceive it possible to divide them, and to
establish a new classification according to their special and charac-
teristic functions.
Gall, being unacquainted with the special faculties, and not being
able to find out organs for t11e powers which philosophers consider
as such, observed man in action, and named the organs accordingly.
This kind of denomination is still perceptible in his last publication.
Actions, however, seldom result from one single power, and often
proceed from abuses of the faculties ; the nomenclature, therefore,
assumed and modified by Gall, was, in my opinion, always very
defective. No organ should be named after any action, and cer-
CRANIOLOGY. 125
tainly not after the abuse of its function. The names of theft and
murder, given to two organs, allowed fair play to the opponents.
It is true, that individuals who steal from infancy, notwithstanding
the most careful education and the severest punishment, have one
portion of the brain particularly developed, but all persons in whom
the same part is large, are not thieves in the common acceptation
of the word. It is the same with the organ, formerly called, that
of murder ; those who from infancy have a strong propensity to
destroy and to kill have a part of the brain highly developed, but
all those who have that organ large, do not necessarily murder.
Gluttony and drunkenness depend on some organic cause ; but we
cannot speak of special organs of those disorders. The abuses of
physical love depend on a certain organization, but no one speaks
of an organ of adultery. Theft and murder then are abuses of two
faculties, as I shall explain hereafter.
Gall's proceeding, was also defective, as far as he observed ac-
tions only which accompanied different organs. In this way he
could determine the special functions, only of a few organs, in
other words he specified the nature of very few fundamental pow-
ers. Hence, in treating of the special organs, he complains that
he does not know their sphere of activity. On the other hand,
Gall discovered the organs only when extremely large, while the
others around them were small. This mode of observing was ne-
cessary at the commencement, it was the way to arrive at more
philosophical considerations, which bring Phrenology in harmony
with all other physical and moral truths. But he erred in adopting
powers for individual actions and characters, and naming them ac-
cordingly ; and he erred in paying greater attention to individual
elevations, than to size in general. In this way the idea of bumps,
became accredited, and served the opponents to ridicule Phre-
nology.
It was necessary to modify that manner of considering Phrenol-
ogy ; I undertook to specify the nature of the fundamental mani-
festations of the mind, and to name the powers independently of
any action, or application ; and I established a new division of the
126 PHRENOLOGY.
mental operations, according to the nature of the special powers,
and modes of action, separating in the talents and characters of
mdividuals, that which belongs to each power itself from what de~
pends on its combination with other faculties.
All the functions of man which take place with consciousness,
are asc.ribed to the mind, and constitute animal life. They may
be divided into two orders, a division admitted from the remotest
antiquity, and known under the names Soul and Spirit; moral and
intellectual faculties ; understanding and will ; heart and head. I
shall designate them by feelings and intellect, or by affective and
intellectual faculties.
Both orders of the cerebral functions may be subdivided into
several genera, and each genus into several species. Some affec-
tive powers produce only desires, inclinations or instincts ; I de-
nominate them by the general title propensities. The name J.1ro-
pensities, then, is only applied to indicate internal impulses which
invite to certain actions. They correspond with the instincts, or
instinctive powers of animals. There are other affective faculties
which are not confined to inclination alone, but have something
superadded that may be styled sentiment. Self-esteem, for in-
stance, produces a certain propensity to act ; but, at the same time,
feels another emotion or affection which is not merely propensity.
All the faculties which I call propensities are common to man and
animals, but those of which I now speak, and which I shall name
sentiments, are partly common to man and animals, and partly
proper to man.
The second order of mental powers is destined to make us ac~
quainted with the existence of the external world, with the quali~
ties of the bodies that surround us, and, also, with their relations ;
I call them intellectual. They may be subdivided into four gen~
era. The first includes the functions of the external senses and
of voluntary motion ; the second, those faculties, which make man
and animals acquainted with external objects, and their physical
qualities ; and the third, the functions connected with the know-
ledge of relation between objects or their qualities ; these three gen~
CRANIOLOGY. 127
era, I name perceptive faculties ; the fourth genus comprises the
faculties which act on all the other sensations and notions, and
these I style reflectit·e faculties.
Each genus of faculties, both affective and intellectual, consists
of several species, and each species offers several modifications, or
varieties, even idiosyncrasies, or monstrosities. The essential,
however, of the faculties always remains, and is even unaltered by
disease. The essential nature of the faculties is that which must
be determined, and the result of this proceeding is a new philoso-
phy of the mind. In speaking of positive actions, it is highly ne-
cessary to indicate the special faculties which produce them, for the
mutual influence of the special powers, is so great, that the inactiv-
ity of one faculty sometimes becomes a cause that certain others
act in a determinate manner, which would not have happened, had
all been duly balanced and equally active.
In explaining GalPs proceeding, and the spirit which conducted
him in his observations, I stated that he named the organs accord-
ing to the talents and characters he observed. There are mecha-
nicians, musicians, mathematicians, metaphysicians, poets, &c.;
some persons, also, are known for their cunning, ambition, pride,
quarrelsomeness, benevolence, or religious feelings; and it is cer-
tain that persons highly endowed with such talents, and guided by
such feelings, have the organs which Gall speaks of, under the
titles, organs of cunning, religion, pride, ambition, poetry, music,
mechanics, mathematics, &c., largely developed. But in consid-
ering the fundamental powers, I was obliged to change the nomen-
clature, though I admit that the organs, as they are named by Gall,
are much developed in persons, distinguished by peculiar charac-
ters, or individual talents. In my opinion there is no organ of
cunning, of religion, of poetry, mathematics, mechanics, &c. I
consider these mental operations, as compound, and think that
their elements must be determined. I consequently do not give
names to the organs according to actions, but solely according to
the nature of faculties. I shall elucidate my meaning by means
of the external senses. There is a power of seeing, and an organ
1.28 PHRENOLOGY.
of sight, but there is no organ of seeing red, blue, yellow, or
squares, triangles, or other colors, or forms. "\Ve speak of a sense
of hearing, and not of a sense of hearing the song of birds, the
music of man, or the noise of a cannon, &c. In the same way,
there is an organ of the propensity to conceal, but none of hypoc-
risy ; an organ of the desire of applause, but none of emulation,
or glory ; a sense of reverence, but none of this or that mode of
worship, and so on.
'.Fhis distinction between the faculty itself and its application,
explains how the same organization, in different individuals, may
be accompanied by good or bad actions, for the essence of the
faculty .is preserved, and its application alone differs, and is good
or bad. The feeling of reverence, being directed to the God of
Christians, to saints, angels, or to natural objects, or being satisfied
by all sorts of actions, by singing of psalms, by fastings, burning
candles, or by charity and peacefulness, &c. is always one and the
same.
The nomenclature of Phrenology, therefore, is to be established
according to the fundamental powers themselves, and by no means
according to their application. I am aware that neither English
philologists, nor the English public, like to admit new words, and
I must apologize for having introduced several. The English lan-
guage presents very few single words, which express my concep-
tions of the peculiar faculties of the mind. Hence, I had to choose
bet\veer. speaking by circumlocution, and adopting new names.
Now, I think with Locke, that we have still the same rights as our
predecessors, and I, therefore, proposed new single names, formed
as much as possible, in conformity with the spirit of the language.
Having established different propensities, as peculiar faculties of
the mind, in order to designate propensity, I have taken the termi-
nation ive, which shows the quality of producing, and ness, which
indicates the abstract state ; it:eness is therefore joined to different
roots ; the preference being always given to English words gener-
ally admitted ; but when such were not to be found, to Latin par-
ticiples, so commonly used in English to express meanings simi-
CRANIOLOGY. 129
1ar to those I was in search of, as destructiveness, productiveness,
&c.
The termination ous, indicates a sentiment, as anxious, cautious,
pious, conscientious, &c. and I should have been very glad to have
found similar adjectives for every primitive sentiment of the mind ;
when they occurred, I have added ness, in order to express the ab-
stract state, as cautiousness, conscientiousness, marvellousness, &c.
The names of the inte1lectua] faculties are easily understood,
and do not require particular explanation.
If under any head of the nomenclature, there be a better name
than I employ, or one which indicates more exactly any determin-
ate faculty, but no determinate action or effect of the faculty, I
shall be glad to use it; for I am always disposed to acknowledge
truth, and obey real improvement.
I cannot insist too much on the importance of not confounding
the fundamental powers with their applications; and of not con-
founding protuberances with general developement. Gall was
particularly attached to the idea of protuberances, viz. to the prin-
cipal means of making the first phrenological discoveries. All his
writings, and particularly the three last plates of the large work
confirm' me in this opinion. It would be difficult to look at these
plates without thinking of protuberances. The reader naturally asks,
what is in the intervals between the elevations ? Such elevations,
however, occur but rarely, and the habit of looking for isolated
organs thus acquired by beginners, has, undoubtedly, retarded the
progress of Phrenology. Adversaries also support their objections
by supposed exceptions ; for they imagine that an organ is large
only when it presents a protuberance. This, however, is not the
case, and it is better to consider the size of the head in general, to
divide it into various regions, and to observe which and what parts
of each, are most developed. The medulla oblongata, or the
occipital hole, or fhe external opening of the ear, will serve as a
central point from whence various radii may be drawn toward the
surface in all directions. I farther divide the head into two regions
in its height, by drawing a horizontal line, which begins in the
17 .
130 PHRENOLOGY.
middle of the forehead, and ends above the occipital bone. The
region below this, I call basilar, and that above it sincipital. In
its length from forehead to occiput, I divide the head into three
regions. From the mastoid process behind the ear, backwards, is
the sincipital region, from the mastoid process to the temples, or
constructiveness, is the middle, and from constructiveness for-
wards, the frontal region. The occipital region corresponds with
the posterior lobes ; the middle regions·\Vith the middle lobes, and
the frontal with the anterior lobes of the brain. Heads, again, are
narrow or wide laterally, and the lateral regions are therefore to be
examined in relation to the height of the head. These various re-
gions are difterent even when the whole surface is smooth, which
may happen in heads of all sizes. ·
The analysis of the greater number of the fundamental powers
of the mind, their divisions into orders, genera, and species, the
new nomenclature, according to the nature of the special powers,
and the division of the head into regions, is my work.
SECTION VIII.
Order in 'which the Organs may be treated.
FROM the preceding section it results that a certain order may
be established amongst the organs of the mind. Gall never adopt-
ed any philosophical principle in his arrangements of the organs.
He frequently changed the order in which he considered them,
being, ho·wever, always guided by their localities. In his latest
publication he begins at the basis and ends at the top of the head.
Not allowing any essential difference in the modes of action of the
primary powers, he deems it sufficient to take the mere situation
of the organs to regulate the order of his descriptions.
I, on the contrary, admitting different modes of action in the
special faculties of the mind, conceive the possibility to classify
CRANIOLOGY. 131
them according to the nature of the mental operations. I first
speak of the organs of the affective powers or feelings, and then
of those of the intellectual faculties, viz. in the same order as I
divide and subdivide the fundamental functions of the mind. In
the two editions of 'the Physiognomical System,' in 1815, I fol-
lowed this principle in arranging the organs, and adopted a certain
order, which was allowed by the phrenologists in Edinburgh. I
changed that order in my successive French and English publica-
tions. 1\Ir. Daville adopted for his marked bust that in my work
'Phrenology' of 1825. Mr. Combe does the same in his last
edition of Phrenology. It is impossible to a~-rive at a correct
classification, until all the organs and all the special faculties of the
mind are ascertained ; and then new modifications may appear
preferable to those \vho teach Phrenology. Let it therefore be
understood, that, though marked busts or plates may be numbered
differently, the plates of the respective organs, once considered as
established, have never been altered ; the place of secretiveness,
for instance, has been invariHbly the same, whether it be marked
and referred to as the 7th or ~th organ of the brain. I now treat
of the organ of secretiveness, before acquisitiveness and construc-
tiveness, since it belongs to the middle lobes of the brain, whilst
the organs of acquisitiveness and constructi,Teness lie above the
Fissura Sylvii. Hence, anatomy indicated this rectification, and
reasoning is not against the change, because secretiveness assists
the preceding propensities as well as those which follow.
Thus, the numbers of the marked busts or plates indicated
merely the order in which the organs are treated or described by
phrenologists. This order has been changed at different periods
by Gall, as well as myself, and different arrangements may be pro-
posed by other phrenologists. It is immaterial in Phrenology
whether a teacher speaks of combativeness in the 5th or 7th place,
and so with respect to every other organ. It is therefore wrong
in my opinion to commit to memory the numbers of the organs,
and to go so far as to take phrenological notes in numbers, or to
use them in conversation and private C.01Tespondence, instead of
132 PHRENOLOGY.
the names, as without abandoning the numbers m descriptions,
confusion and perplexity will be unavoidable.
Before I enter into details upon the organs of the mind, I shall
answer a question which may be put in regard to every organ, viz. :
1Vhy do you admit a pa1·ticular organ of this, and not of another
function ? When actions alone are spoken of, it is certainly diffi-
cult to conceive the necessity of particular organs ; yet the answer
is decisive when we can say: experience demonstrates it. ~Iore~
over as I look for fundamental powers and not merely for their or-
gans, the necessity of every one may be proved even by reasoning,
that is, by the general proofs which confirm the plurality of the
powers and organs. In considering these proofs, in relation to
every faculty, we may be sure in our proceeding. Every faculty
is fundamental, and a particular organ must be pointed out for it:
1. Which exists in one kind of animal and not in another ;
2. Which varies in the sexes of the same species ;
3. Which is not proportionate to the other faculties of the same
individual ;
4. Which does not manifest itself simultaneously with the other
faculties, that is, which appears or disappears earlier or later than
they;
5. Whic.h may act or repose singly ;
6. "\Vhich individually is propagated in a distinct manner from
parents to children ; and
7. 'Vhich singly may preserve its proper state of health, or be
affected hy disease.
Gall did not determine any of the organs in conformity with these
views. He followed an empirical method only, looking for organs
according to the actions of man. But I have no hesitation to main-
tain that in pointing out the special or fundamental powers of the
mind, my proceedi-ng is philosnphical, founded on principles, and
adequate to refute the following objections made against the object
of our investigations.
Some adversaries say that too many, others that too few, organs
are acknowledged, and that they might be multiplied infinitely.
DIVISION OF Tl!E MENTAL POWERS. 133
The former should know, however, that each is admitted by the
same proofs which demonstrate their plurality generally, and that
it is verified by experience. The independent existence of one
organ is neither more nor less certain than that of any other ; and
if similar proofs be admitted confirmatory of one, they must be
agreed to in regard to every other. On the other hand the oppo·
nents who think that enough organs are not admitted, should consider,
that every faculty may be applied to an infinite number of objects.
Seeing is always seeing, but to what an infinity of objects may the
power be directed ! Hearing is always hearing, but how various
the impressions perceived by this sense ! It is the same with the in·
ternal faculties. Constructing is always constructing, but how infinite
in number and variety the objects that may be produced! :Moreover,
it is to be observed, that a great number of actions result from
combinations of different powers ; and, therefore, it is not surprising
to see so many effects produced by a small number of primitive
faculties. Are not twenty-four letters of the alphabet sufficient to
compose all imaginable words ? The muscles of the face are not
very numerous, yet almost every individual of the human kind has
a different physiognomy. There are few primitive sounds; few
primitive colors ; only ten primitive signs of numbers ; but what an
infinity of combinations do not each of these furnish ? Let us
suppose from thirty to forty primitive faculties of the mind, and
then consider all possible combinations, with their modifications; and
we shall not feel surprised that we observe such a number of mod·
ified functions. I repeat that the organs are not multiplied unne·
cessarily, but that determinate principles are followed in establish·
ing each of them, such only as nature presents being recognised.
Some opponents have a peculiar turn of mind. They rely on
their saying that P_hrenology is not complete, as if this imperfect
state could refute that \vhich is discovered and confirmed. The
physical analysis of matter is not yet complete ; shall therefore all
discoveries of modern chemists be denied : such a conclusion
would be evidently erroneous. In the same way this incomplete
state of Phrenology does not refute that which is certain in it.
134 PHRENOLOGY.
Some metaphysical speculators imagine that several power5,
which in Phrenology are considered as special, might be ranged
as constituents of other powers ; for instance, that combativeness
and destructiveness might be reduced to one and the same power ;
in the same way secretiveness and cautiousness ; self-esteem and
love of approbation.
"\¥e prove our assertions by reasoning and facts, nor shall our
constant observations deserve less confidence than mere a priori
reasoning, particularly since we find in practical life that nature is
not so simple in her means as many metaphysicians fancy. "\Vhy
different nerves for different sensation~, and again others for Yol-
untary motion ? why so many different glands for the individual
secretions, &c.
Other metaphysicians indulge in their fancy, and speak of dis·
crepancies of Phrenology, supposing that there are special facul-
ties of the mind, for which they find no organs in the map of the
phrenological bust.
Let me admit, for the sake of argument, such powers to exist,
why do those who find them necessary not look for the respective
organs ? why should we do all ? or shall the organs which we
have discovered, not be true, because we do not know those or-
gans which some metaphysicians suppose to exist. Some, for in-
stance, think it necessary to admit an organ of the love of parents,
since there is one for the love of children. Let those wbo want
an organ of the love of parents, find it out and prove it, as we do
m regard to the organ of philoprogenitiveness ; or shall the organ
of philoprogenitiveness not exist because that of the love of pa-
rents is unknown ? I for my part, do not think it necessary to
look for an organ of that kind, since I do not think that the love of
parents is a special faculty. Nature has distributed powers for
necessary phenomena. The preservation of the species depends
on the care which parents take of their offspring, and it is obtained
by a special power. Parents are supposed to be independent of
their children, and if in old age they should want their assistance,
other feelings, as attachment, consciousness, reverence and benev-
DIVISION OF THE MENTAL POWERS. 135
olence are sufficient to explain gratitude and any other help they
give to their parents. Others want an organ of self-love. I might
reply, look for it, and prove it! I see necessity for doing so.
Self-love seems to me attached to the whole of Self, and an attribute
of every faculty which when active wishes to be. satisfied.
Many consider it as a discrepancy of Phrenology that I admit
an organ of coloring, and another of tune, and none of taste, and
none of smell. There is, however, a great difference between
these mental phenomena. In treatint; of the external senses, I
shall speak of their immediate and mediate functions. The imme-
diate functions are independent of cerebral organs, only as far as
they arc referred to special objects they are the result of internal
mental operations. The sense of smell, perceives odors ; that of
taste, savors ; that of hearing, sounds ; and that of sight, different
shades of light. 'Vhen these different perceptions or sensations
are referred to external objects, individuality and eventuality are
active. This is common to all the external senses ; but the mind
operates on sounds and the shades and modified impressions of
light in a peculiar manner, in which it does not operate on odors
and savors. It transforms sounds into tones, melody and harmony,
and the impressions of light into coloring, and for these peculiar
operations of the mind, there are special organs in the brain.
I shall now begin to treat of the special faculties, which I admit
in Phrenology, and in the order which seems to me in the mean-
time as the most philosophical. An invariable order cannot be
adopted till Phrenology is complete. In discussing the fundamen-
tal powers of the mind, I shall always follow the same procedure :
I shall first consider the individual actions which lead us to think of
a special faculty ; then give the history of the discovery of the or-
gan ; I shall add my remarks where Gall, myself, or other phrenol-
ogists happen to differ in opinion ; and afterwards describe the
seat of each organ, and name it according to its essential nature ;
finally I shall examine its influence on the other faculties and the
effects of its inactivity. It is my intention rather to make known
the philosophical spirit of these inquiries, and the manner in which
136 PHRENO:J;..OGY.
I conceive they· ought to he conducted, confirmed or amended,
than to quote the numerous facts observed in support of our opin-
ions. Gall was fond of quoting individual facts ; these, however,
be they ever so numerous, can never produce conviction. I have
neither the wish nor the intention to persuade, but invite every one
to convince himself by personal examination, since there can be no
self-conviction without self-observation. I think, however, that by
our unabated inquiries during so many years, we have acquired the
right to demand that no conclusion be formed until our observa-
tions have been repeated. Is it not painful then to see that this is
not done in Phrenology as it is in all other new discoveries? I
cannot but regret that physiologists and philosophers do not exam-
ine with sufficient zeal and care the doctrine of Phrenology, which
undoubtedly one day will become the basis of all philosophical,
moral, and political sciences.
SECTION VIII.
ORDER I.-FEELINGS, OR AFFECTIVE FACULTIES.
THE affective faculties have their origin from within, and are
not acquired by any external circumstances. They cannot be
tanght and must be felt to be understood ; in themselves they are
blind and act without understanding ; finally they are partly com-
mon to man and animals, partly proper to man.
GENUS I.-Propensities.
There are several species of propensities ; each species has a
particular nature, and they all exist in animals and man.
Organ of the Desire to Live.
It is highly probable that there is a peculiar instinct to live, or
love of life, and I look for its organ at the basis of the brain, be-
tween the posterior and middle lobes, inwardly of combativeness.
ALIMENTIVENESS. 137
Organ of the Propensity to Feed.
.B.limentiveness.
The con'Mnon opinion of physiologists is, that hunger, or the
desire to take food, depends on the nerves of the stomach alone.
Gall and myself, placing all other instincts into the brain, thought
it probable that the instinct to feed, depends on a cerebral portion,
though we did not know its situation in the head.
.Mr. Crook, lecturer on Mnemonics, seems to hare been the
first who obsen'ed the developement of a peculiar part of the brain,
in relation to the instinct in question, though the view he took is
probably too limited. He obsen'ed several individuals who were
exceedingly fond of good living, and he found their heads anterior
to the organ of destructiveness very large. He thought that this
organ produces a fine exquisite taste, and called it the organ of
gustatiz.1eness.
Dr. Hoppe, of Copenhagen, as stated in two communications
published in the Phr.enological Journal, No. V. and VII., looked
for an organ of the appetite for food, at the same spot of the head
where l\Ir. CJ;Ook admits the organ of gustativeness, viz. before
that of destruetiveness: 'we obsen~e,' says he, ' that the chicken
is no sooner out of the egg, than it picks the grain that lies on the
ground, and the new-born babe sucks the nipple. Is this to be ex-
plained without the supposition of an organ analogous to that which
makes the duckling immediately plunge into the \Vater. Neither
am I able otherwise to conceive how the new-born animal can dis-
criminate what is useful for its nutrition ; that, for instance, the
chicken, never mistakes gravel for grain, and that the wild beasts
always avoid poisonous plants 'vithout ever tasting them.'
I agree with the idea that the propensity or instinct to feed, is
fundamental, and attached to a portion of the brain situated before
the organ of destructiveness, and under that of acquisitiveness, ern-
bracing the anterior circonvolutions of the middle lobes in man,
and the corresponding cerebral parts in animals. But I neither
18
138 PHRENOLOGY.
think with Dr. Hoppe, that this propensity discriminates what is
useful for uufrition, nor \vith .Mr. Crook, that it produces the de-
licacy and nicety of taste ; I confine this power to the mere desire
to feed, in the same way as the cerebellum to physical love, or
amativeness, considering these two like all other propensities, as
blind and dep1ived of intellect. In this way the comparison be-
tween nutrition and propaga:ion is complete, each class of these
functions, comprising three sorts of nervous activity, partly vegeta-
tive, partly inst>activ~, and partly sensitive.
Now all concurs to prove that the above mentioned portion of
the brain, is the organ of the instinctive part of nutrition, or of the
desire to feed. It exists not only in carnivorous, but also in her-
bivorous animals. The goose, turkey, ostrich, kangaroo, beaver,
horse, &c. &c. have a middle lobe as well as the duck, eagle,
pelican, tiger, lion, dog, &c. The desire to feed, is common to
all animals, and the carnivorous animals want the organ of destruc-
tiveness in addition to that of the instinct to feed.
The functions of the anterior circonvolutions of the middle lobes
in man, were unknO\vn before the observations of Mr. Crook and
Dr. Hoppe. It is, however, remarkable that they are developed
from the earliest age, sooner than many other parts, and propor-
tionably larger in children and young, than in adult persons and
animals. This instinct acts in comformity, from the first appear-
ance of young beings in this world, and is generally the most ac-
tive in early life. In treating of destructiveness, I shall mention
the reasons which induce me to think that it does not determine
the food of carnivorous animals, or the taste for animal food, this
being the result of the sense of taste, or of the gustatory nerve.
This latter sense too, in my opinion, explains that which .Mr.
Crook calls gustativeness, and ascribes to the organ in question,
that which I confine to the instinct to feed.
This propensity is particularly assisted by the smeJl, and the
olfactory nerve is in all animals in the most intimate communica-
tion with the middle lobes, so much so, that in the ox, sheep,
horse, dog, fox, hare, rabbit, &c. the internal part of the middle
ORGAN OF DESTRUCTIVENESS. 13~
lobes, seems to be almost a mere continuation of the olfactory
nerve. In man also, the external and greater root of ·the olfactory
nerve, is in connexion with the anterior convolutions of the middle
lobes.
Farther, the middle lobes are in particular communication with
the nervous bundles, which constitute the anterior lobes, and the
anterior external portion of the crura, in other words, the organs
of the intellectual faculties ; and the propensity to feed puts into
action many of the perceptive powers, and the voluntary motion
of many parts, before the food is transmitted to the stomach for
digestion.
This organ, though indicated by reason and comparative anato-
my, is merely probable, and can be confirmed or rejected like
every other, according to direct observations alone, in comparing
cerebral developement, in relation to the special propensity. I
possess many facts in confirmation.
I. Organ of the Propensity to Destroy, or of Destructiveness.
A difference in the skulls of carnivorous and herbivorous ani-
mals, gave the first idea of the existence of an organ of destruc-
tiveness. If we place the skull of a carnivorous animal horizontally,
and trace a vertical line through the external meatus auditorius,
a good portion of the cerebral mass will be found situated behind it,
whilst in herbivorous animals, the corresponding portion of the
brain will be observed to be very small.
Every one agrees that there are carnivorous animals, wt all have
not the same opinion regarding the cause of this. Some say it is
useless to search in the brain for a particular organ of destruction,
which determines the kind of food nature destined for man and an-
imals, because she has given to carnivorous animals the feeling of
hunger, the taste, teeth, and such instruments as are necessary for
seizing and killing their prey. These instruments, however, prove
only the harmony that subsists between the internal faculties and
the corporeal structure. Man employs his hands in taking aliments,
140 PHRENOLOGY.
but some interior sensation advertises him of the necessity of taking
food. The tiger, lion, cat, &c. have teeth and clanrs, but an in-
ternal power excites these animals to use them. A sheep could
not employ such instruments, any more than does an idiot his hands
to perform offices for which they are adapted.
The propensity to kill, exists beyond doubt in the world, and it
is more or less energetic in animals of difterent species, and even
in individuals of the same kind. There are some species which
kill no more than they require for their nomishment, while others,
as the wolf, tiger, polecat, &c. kill all living beings around them,
seemingly for the mere pleasure of destroying.
It is readily granted that many animals have the propensity to
kill. But let us see whether man is also endowed with a like dis-
positiOn. Carnivorous animals confine themselves to the destruc-
tion of a certain number of species for food ; but man kills, from
the insect to the elephant and whale, to apply them to his purpo-
ses ; he almost alone is truly omnivorous, and he sheds the blood
even of his fellow-creatures. I find it superfluous to combat those
who say that man eats flesh ouly from depravity or vicious habit ;
because his teeth evidently partake of the structure of those of both
carnivorous and herbivorous animals ; his stomach rather resembles
that of carnivorous, than of frugivorous tribes ; and finally, because
he thri\T
es upon flesh, and, in some regions, it constitutes all his
subsistence.
In man this feeling presents different degrees of activity, from
mere indifference to the pain of animals, to the pleasure of seeing
them killt«::, or even to the most irresistible desire of killing. This
doctrine may shock se11sibility, but it is not the less true, and who-
ever would study nature, and judge sanely or' its phenomena, must
be ready to admit the existence of things as they are. It may be
observed that among children, as well as adults, among the uncul-
tivated as well as the polite and well-bred classes of society, cer-
tain individuals are very sensible, and others very indifferent to the
sufferings of other beings. Some persons feel a pleasure in tor-
menting animals, and in seeing them tortured or killed, even when
•·
ORGAN OF DESTRUCTIVENESS. 141
It Js impossible to ascribe this disposition to bad habit, or neg-
lected education. There are even individuals who choose such
a profession as will gratify this propensity, if it be very energetic.
Thus a journeyman apothecary at Vienna became an execution-
er ; the son of a rich merchant of the same city, renounced com-
merce and beeame a butcher; and a rich Dutchman paid the
butchers, who furnished the navy with beef, for permission to kill
the oxen.
\Ve may also determine the existence of this propensity and its
diversities, by the impressions made upon different spectators by
public executions; these are insupportable to some, and afford
great delight to others. George Selwin sought eagerly for such
spectacles, arid always endeavored to stand 11ear the executioner.
It is also reported of La Condamine that, being fond of executions,
and endeavoring to pass through the crowd upon a certain occasion,
as the soldiers pushed him back, the executioner said to them, ' Let
that gentleman pass, he is an amateur.' Professor Bruggmans, of
Leyden, told us of a Dutch priest, whose desire to kill, and to see
killed, was so great, that he became chaplain of a regiment, solely
to have an opportunity of seeing men destroyed in battle. To
gratify the same propensity still farther, he kept in his house a
number of domestic animals, as dogs, cats, &c. to have the pleas-
ure of killing their young with his own hand. He also slaughter-
ed the animals for his kitchen, and was acquainted with all the
hangmen of the country, who sent him regular notice of each ex-
ecution, and he did not grudge to travel on foot for several days,
to witness the ·scene. In the field of battle the propensity to de-
stroy is active in very different degrees : one soldier is overjoyed
at sight of the blood which he sheds, while another, moved by
compassion, spares the vanquished, and stops of his own accord,
whenever victory is secure.
Highwaymen are frequently not contented with robbing, but
manifest the most sanguinary inclination to torment and murder,
without necessity. John Rosbeck not only maltreated his victims,
to make them show their concealed treasures, but invented and
142 PHRENOLOGY.
employed the most outrageous cruelties, merely to witness their
sufferings ; neither fear nor torture could break him of this horrible
habit; after his first apprehension, he was confined for eighteen
months in a small subterraneous dungeon, his feet loaded with
chains, standing in muddy water up to his ancles; in addition to
all this, he was tortured most cruelly ; nevertheless, he confessed
nothing. On being enlarged, his first act was to steal in full day·
light, and having committed new murders, he was finally executed.*
At the beginning of the last century, several murders were com-
mitted in Holland, on the frontiers of the province of Cleves.
For a long time the murderer escaped detection, but at last suspi-
cion fell on an old man, who gained his livelihood by playing on
the violin at country weddings, in consequence of some expres·
sions of his children; led before the justice, he confessed thirty·
four murders, and said that he had committed them \vithout any
cause of enmity, and without any intention of robbing, but only
because he was extremely delighted n·ith bloodshed. At Stras·
burg two ke~pers of the cathedral having been assassinated, all ef·
forts to discover the murderer for a long time were ineffectual ; at
last a postilion was shot by a clergyman, called Frick. This
monster bad hired a post-chaise for the express purpose of sati~fy·
ing his horrible propensity to destroy. Arrested, he confessed
himself tbe murderer of both keepers of the cathedral. This
wretch was rich, and had never stolen. For his crimes he 'vas
condemned to be burned at Strasburg. 'Louis XV.' says M. de
Lacretelle,t 'felt a rooted aversion against a brother of the Duke
Bourbon-Conde, Count of Charolois, lrho would have rene\ved all
the crimes of N era, had he eyer mounted a throne. 1Yhile a
child he betrayed a cruelty of disposition, which excited horror.
He delighted in shedding the blood of those he had debauched,
and in exercising various barbarities on the courtezans \vho 'vere
brought to him. Popular tradition, as well as history, accuses
him of different homicid,,s, and it is added that these were com·
* History of Schinderhannes, t. ii. p. 8.
t Historie de Ia France, t. ii. p. 59.
ORGAN OF DESTRUCTIVENESS. 143
mitted without cause, and when unmoved by anger ; for he shot
at slaters, merely to have the barbarous pleasure of seeing them
fall from the tops of the houses.'
These latter facts, which fortunately for humanity are very rare,
prove that this terrible propensity is sometimes quite independent
of education, of example, or of habit, and that it depends on innate
constitution alone. .Many crimes indeed are so detestable, and
are accompanied with such repugnant and horrible circumstances,
that it would be impossible to explain them in any other way.
Prochasca relates, * that a woman of l\Iilan caressed little children,
led them home, killed them, salted their flesh, and ate of it every
day. He quotes also the case of a person whom this passion ex-
cited, and who killed a traveller and a young girl to eat them.
Gaubius t speaks of a girl 'vhose father was incited by a violent ·
impulse to eat human flesh, and who, to gratify his singular desire,
committed several murders. This girl, though separated from her
father for a long time, and educated carefully among respectable
persons not related to her family, was overcome by the same hor-
rible desire to eat human flesh.
Many idiots are mischievous, and manifest the propensity to kill.
Numerous facts are recorded in books, and several have fallen un-
der my own observation.
Individuals are occasionally alienated only in the propensity to
destroy. •.At Berlin, Mr. .Mayer showed us a soldier whose gen-
eral health was bad; he was very irritable, and much weakened by
grief for the loss of his wife ; he had every month a fit of violent
convulsions, the approach of which he felt, accompanied \Vith an
immoderate propensity to kill ; he then begged to be chained ; but
at the end of a few days the fit left him, the fatal propensity disap-
peared, and he himself fixed the period when he might be safely
delivered. At Raina \ve met with a man who at certain periods
felt an irresistible desire to maltreat others ; he also knew his un-
fortunate propensity, and begged to be confined till his fit was
* Opera minora, tom. ii. p. 98.
t Oratio prima de regimine mentis quod medicorum est.
144 PHRENOLOGY.
over. A person, of a melancholy turn of mind, having seen a
criminal executed, was so much upset by the spectacle, that he
suddenly became possessed with a propensity to kill, although he
felt the strongest aversion to commit the act; he spoke of his de-
plorable situation, weeping bitterly, struck his head, wrung his hands1
exhorted himself, and admonished his fi·iends to take care and to
fly; he even thanked them if they restrained him.
Pinel has also frequently observed the fierce impulse to destroy,
and speaks of one man who showed no mark of alienation in mem~
ory, imagination, or judgment, but who confessed that his propen-
sity to murder was so involuntary and irresistible, that his wife,
notwithstanding the love he bore her, was near being immolated,. ,
he having only time to warn her to fly. In his lucid intervals he
made the most melancholy reflections, expressed horror at himself,
and was disgusted with life to such a degree, that he several times
attempted to put an end to his existence. '"\Vhat reason,' said he,
'have I to cut the throat of the overseer of the hospital, who treats
us \Vith so much humanity ? Yet in the moments of my fury I
feel the same de~ire to attack him as others, and to thrust a dagger
into his breast.' Another madman, who, during six months in the
year, suffered periodical fits of fury, felt the decrease of the sympd
toms, pointed out the periods when the danger was over, and beg-
ged those about him not to set him free when he felt incapable of
governing his blind impulse to destroy. In his calm intervals, he
confessed, that during his fits, it would be impossible f~r him to
restrain it; he said, that if he met any one then, he saw, as it
were, the blood circulating in their veins, and felt an irresistible
desire to suck it, and to tear their limbs with his teeth, to do so
more commodiously. Pinel also relates the history of a young
female, who every morning had a fit of mania, during which she
tore all that fell under her hands, and committed every sort of
violence against those who came near her, so that they were
obliged to restrain her by a straight-jacket ; yet in the afternoon
she repented of the actions of the morning, and asked pardon,
which she always despaired of obtaining. Pinel quotes another
ORGAN OF DESTRUCTIVENESS. 145
example of a monk alienated by devotion, who thought he had one
night seen the Virgin .Mary surrounded by a choir of angels and
happy spirits, and received an express order to kill a certain person
whom he considered as an infidel ; he would have executed this
commission, had not his actions and manner betrayed him. The
same author speaks of a credulous vine-dresser, who was so violently
shaken by the sermon of a missionary, that he thought himself
and his family damned to everlasting pains, if he did not save them
by the baptism of blood, or martyrdom. He therefore first en-
deavored to murder his wife, who escaped with difficulty ; he then
killed two of his children, to procure them eternal life; and when
confined to prison before trial, he cut the throat of a criminal in
the same room with him, still with the intention of doing some ex-
piatory act. His insanity being proved, he was ordered to be shut
up in the Bicetre for life. Long solitary confinement exalted his
imagination, and because he had not been executed, he fancied
himself the Almighty ; or, according to his own expression, the
fourth person of the Trinity, sent to save the world by the bap-
tism of blood. Having been confined for ten years, he became
tranquil, and was permitted to converse with the other convales-
cents in the court of the hospital. He passed four years in this
way, and his health seemed restored, but he was again suddenly
seized with his former superstitious and sanguinary ideas. The
day before Christmas he conceived the project of offering up an
expiatory sacrifice by killing all who might fall under his hands; he
consequently got possession of a shoemaker's knife, with which
he gave the keeper a thrust from behind, which fortunately slipped
over the ribs ; he then cut the throats of two other lunatics, and
would have continued his homicides, had he not been overpower-
ed and prevented. These and many similar examples, which
occur in the state of health and disease, prove that the propensity
to kill and destroy is innate, in man as well as in animals. Does not
the whole history of mankind indeed confirm this position ? In all
ages the earth has been drenched with blood. The God of Israel
was fond of blood-shedding; and without it there was no remis-
19
146 PHRENOLOGY.
sian of sin. With what view then has this propensity been
created?
We cannot imagine that the propen~ity to destroy is given to
man that he may murder his fellow-creatures. Carnivorous animals,
though endowed with the propensity, do not kill individuals of their
own kind ; they only use it in slaying, that they themselves may
live. What then is the natural food of man ? To a great extent,
the flesh of other animals, and this he can only procure by inflict-
ing death. Does this propensity then determine the sort of food
proper for those possessed of it ? Gall thinks it does: I am not
of his opinion. It is certain that the propensities of animals are in
relation to their whole nature, and that the disposition to kill is in
relation to the sort of food they use; but an impulse to kill ' is not
the same as an impulse to choose flesh as aliment. One special
faculty produces the propensity to kill, another makes choice of
flesh. There is consequently no proportion between the propensi-
ty to kill, and the want of food. Some animals destroy more than
is necessary for their support. Some of the human kind like meat,
but cannot slay an animal ; others have no reluctance to kill, and
yet prefer vegetables for nourishment. Children, in general, have
the propensity to destroy more energetic than grown up persons,
yet they prefer fruits and vegetables to meat.
'Ve have still to inquire into the essential nature of this faculty.
I think that its sphere of activity is wider than the mere disposition
which it generates to take away life. It seems to produce the
propensity to destroy in general, without distinction of object, or
manner of destroying. It may wreak itself upon inanimate things,
animals, or man, and in this signification may then be perceived a
necessary and consistent power in the plan of creation. Through-
out nature one being lives upon another, and violent death is con-
sequently a law in the system of the world. H ad natme indeed
created animals and destined them to live upon the fle:,h of others,
without giving them at the same time the means of obtaining their
object, and inclination to inflict death, there \vould have been con-
tradiction. Nature has even taught carnivorous animals to put
ORGAN OF AMATIVENESS. 147
ethers to dPath in the most speedy way possible, by wounding
their neck opposite the place wbPre the spinal chord decussates.
Sometimes also there is a necessity for destroying what is useless,
before its place can be supplied by what is useful ; and many things
relatively hurtful provoke us to destroy them. In this sense it is
lawful to destroy others to preserve ourselves ; nay, the act is even
rewarded, and l.10ked on as virtuous, in every war of defence.
On the contrary, wheneYer the faculty leads us to destroy what
ought to be preserved, it is abused.
This faculty then is gratinerl by destroying in general, and its
manifestatiQns are perceived in those who like to pinch, scratch,
bite, break, tear, cut, stab, strangle, demolish, devastate, burn,
drown, kill, poison, murder, or assassinate. It prompts us to ex-
terminate noxious objects, and the causes of dangerous situations.
Gall formerly called its organ that of murder, because he dis-
covered it of large size in the heads of two murderers; but no fac-
ulty can be named from its abuse. The error Gall committed,
however, was natural, for the functions of all the organs are most
easily discovered in their state of extreme developement, when
they are very apt to produce abuses. Such then was the origin
of this erroneous name of a faculty, whose well regulated employ-
ment is, like that of every other, essential to life. I think the
name, organ of the propensity to destroy, or of destructiveness, is
the most general and the most conformable to its sphere of activity.
At the beginning Gall placed the seat of this organ too far be-
hind the. ear, but a great number of observations convinced us that
its seat is immediately above the ear. (Pl. VI. and VIII. fig. 1
and 2, VI.)
II. Organ of .!lmativeness.
Physical love is commonly considered as a peculiar sort of
sensation ; but physiologists and philosophers are not agreed as to
its ongm. It is certain, that none of the causes which are gener-
ally admitted suffice to explain its existence, for it is manifested
148 PHRENOLOGY.
without these, and its energy is not proportionate to them."-· It i~
therefore necessary to find other conditions adequate to account
for the phenomenon of this desire.
Gall did not think there was an organ of this propensity in the
brain, but discovered it by accident. Being physician to a widow
who was subject to violent hysterical fits, during which her head
was drawn backwards with great force, he sometimes supported it
with his hand, and was astonished by the great· thickness and heat
of her neck. Acquainted with her peculiar character, he asked
himself, whether the size. of her neck, and consequent developement
of her cerebellum, might not have some relation to her inordinate
passion?
Continuing observations began from this hint, he soon establish-
ed the point to his own satisfaction ; and it is now impossible to
unite a greater number of proofs in demonstration of any natural
truth, than may be presented to determine the function of the ce-
rebellum.
It would be interesting as well as important to show, that those
animals which have a nervous mass c.orresponding to the cerebel-
lum, reproduce by sexual union. This alone, if it could be verified
through all classes of beings, would be sufficient to prove the pe-
culiar function of this portion of the brain. The minuteness of the
smaller animals, however, prevents demonstration by dissection,
and at the present we may say the undertaking is impracticable.
In new-born children, the cerebellum is to the brain as one to
nine, ten, thirteen, twenty, or more ; and in adults, as one to five,
* Partes genitales, sivc testes hominibus et freminis uterus, propensionem ad
venerem excitare nequeunt. Nam in pueris veneris stimulus seminis secretioni
srepe antecedit. Plures eunuchi, quanquam testibus privati, hanc inclinationem
conservant. Sunt etiam freminre qure sine utero natre, hunc stimulum manifes-
tant. Hinc quidam ex doctrinre nostrre inimicis, harum rerum minime inscii,
seminis prresentiam in sanguine contendunt, et bane causam sufficientem existi-
mant. Attamen argumenta hujus generis vera physiologia longe absunt et vix
citatione digna videntur. Nonnulli etiam hujus inclinationis causam in liquore
prostatico qurerunt; sed in senibus aliquando fluidi prostatici secretio, sine ulla
veneris inclinatione: copiosissima est.
ORGAN OF AMATIVENESS. 149
5ix, or seven. Professor Ackermann maintained that the cerebel-
lum was perfectly developed at the end of the second year. Gall
and I have compared the lieads and skulls of children from two till
sixteen years old, and have always found that at these ages it is still
imperfectly developed. But in proportion as the cerebellum in..
crease~, its function appears. It has been said that the cerebellum
grows in proportion as the sexual propensity becomes active ; but
other proofs show evidently that the developement of the cerebel-
lum always precedes this desire.
In adults, the cerebellum having attaine1 its full size, the amative
propensity is most energetic, and then there is a constant relation
between its developement and the goadings of the inclination. It
is well known that men feel in very different degrees the impulses
of the sexual passion : some individuals are almost or who1ly de-
prived of it; others experience it moderately; \Vhilst others again
feel its ungovernable violence. In the first, the cerebellum is very
small, (Pl. Ill. fig. 2,) in the second, it is of a middling size; and
in the third class, it is very large and prominent.* (Pl. III. jig. 1.)
* Plures viros hticce appetentia abusos, eamque ob causam carceratos vidimus,
quibus, e magnitudine cerebelli, collum quam maximum fuit. Equos, tauros,
arietesque, quibus profusius collum, majore propagandi vi donatos esse, agricolre
et armentarii a longinquitate temporum animadverterunt. Notum est etiam co-
1umbas, qure in hac re aliis excellunt, amajore magnitudine colli distingui.
Virum et mares majorem quam freminas copulandi cupidinen sentire certum
est. 'ln venere exercenda,' ait Hippocrates de Genitura,' Ionge minorem quam
vir voluptatem mulier perclpit, vir vero etiam diuturniorem.' Plurima apud ani-
malia mos est unum marem pluribus cum freminis vivere ; sed in paucis specie-
bus una fremina pluribus cum maribus conj uncta est. In multis speciebus, mares
per totum annum veneris stimulum sentiunt, dum fremime certis solum anni tem-
poribus a :rmtribus suis amari volunt. lmo, in animalibus matrimonio conjunctis,
mares freminis multo salaciores sunt.
In omni animalium specie, cerebelli configuratio ad veneris appetentiam referre
videtur. Nam mares freminis, et freminre maribus, ejusdem specie imprimis,
dediti sunt.
A nimii hujus organi activitate perturbatio oritur. In erotomanitl. cerebellum
grande plerumque observatur. Asseri tamen non potest, omnibus erotomania
laborantibus magnum esse cerebellum. Hoc organon enim, sicut omnia alia,
sine ulla prrecipua magnitudine, morbida a.ctivitate regrotare potest.
150 PHRENOLOGY.
Besides it JS indubitable that men, (Pl. V. fig. 1 and 2,) a;d
male animals m general, have a larger cerebellum than women,
Actio reciproca, qure existit inter cerebellum et partes genitales, etiam cerebelli
functiones probat. Sic castratio cerebelli incrementum imminuit, nam in hom-
inibus atque animalibus castratis cerebellum crescere desinit. Quam ob rem
ennuchis atque animalibus, in prima retate castratis, est collum valde exiguum,
et copulandi cupido nulla. Contra, homin~s creteraque animalia, post plenos
annos castrati, quanquam testium expertes, sensum tamen eroticum et copulandi
stimulum conservant. Hinc testes cupidinem non producere patet.
Pubertatis tempore, mutua colli genitaliumque organorum actio est prrecipue
insignis. Tum crescit barb<119 tum crescit larynx, tum vox mutatur, itemque
testes et alia organa genitalia officiis suis fungi in cipiunt. Eodem tempore cres·
cit cerebellum. Dum animalia catuliunt, eorum colla insolito cum tepore tum-
escunt, vox etiam raucissima evenit.
'Non jllam nutrix orienti Juce revisen!!,
Hesterno collum potuit circumdare filo.'
Qure facta veteribus plane nata fu~re, sed causa usque ad nostram retatem
latuit. Castratio, eadem de causa, craniorum figuras necnon armentorum atque
aliorum animalium cornua mutat. Bobus castratis longiora, <J.Uam tauris, sunt
cornua. Cervorum, testibus injuriam passis, cornua male crescunt; cornubus
defa.lcatis paulo ante rugitum, multo minus certa est eorum propagatio.
Cerebella vulnerato partes genitales in sympathiam trahuntur. Gall, Vindo·
bonre Austriacorum, duos milites, evulnerato occipite, impotentes fieri observa·
vit, quorum unus, duobus post annis, veneris appetentiam et copulandi potestatem
iterum recepit, puerosque genuit. Formey Berolinensis narravit nobis historiam
cujusdam qui, occipite vulnerato, primum priapismo, dein impotentiA, vexatus
est. Veruntamen sex post mensibus virilitatem recuperavit. Baronius Larrey,
Parisiis, plures milites, occipite vulneratos, quorum partes genitales decreverant,
nobis monstravit. Unus, dum septemdecim annos natus, occipite vulneratus
est. Postea penis et testes magnitudine propria defecerunt.; vox freminea per-
mansit, et barba per vitam fuit nulla. Veteres semen in cerebella secerni ac per
spinam descendere putabant. Sic Hippocrates, de Genitura) III, sub fine :
' Quibuscunque juxta aures venre sectre sunt, hi coeunt quidem et ge.nituram
emittunt, verum modicam et debilem ac infrecundam; nam plurima geniturre
pars a capite juxta aures in spinalem medullam procedit.' Alio loco (Lib. de
A~irbus, Aquis, et Locis, Sect. I.) 'Atque mihi, inquit, sane vide.otur ea medi·
catione seipsos perdere. Venre enim retro aures sunt, quas si quis secet, sterili-
tatem inferet his quibus secantur; quare id etiam ipsis ex earum incisione acci·
dere certum est. Quando igitur postea uxores adeunt, impotentesque se factos
vident, cum illis co'ire primum quidem nihil molestius cogitantes quiescnnt
(Scythre.')
Apollonius Rhodius, de Medere amore erga Jasona loquens, illam ardore con
ORGAN OF A~IATIVENESS. 151
(Pl. IV. fig. 1 and 2,) and females. This, however, is by no
means an invariable law ; there are exceptions, and these occur
sumi et capite usque ad infimum nervum dolore cruciari, asserit. Professor
Reinhold, Lipsire, cervici cujusdam pueri, ad diminuendam opthalmiam, setatium
posuit. Evenit priapismus continuus, et irritationis causam amoveri oportuit.
In morbis glandulre parotis, partes genitales variis modis affiiciuntur. Laqueo
suspensi et strangulati plerumque erectionem et seminis emissionem habent.
Menstruationis suppressre a vesica~one CP.rvicis restitutre exempla dantur.
Cervicis frictiones cum spirituosis in histeriam remedium prreclare dicuntur. In
erotomania, partes genitales srepe inpammatre sunt, sed hrec inflammatio non est
idiopathica sed sympathica~ Erotic4s furor hominis.necnon et equorum acasti·a-
tione sanatus est; melius tamen sit morbum frangere per remedia in inflamma-
tionem cerebelli: nam inflammatione sanata, priapismus sedatur. Omnes similes
observationes ad actionem reciprocam colli ac partium genitalium pertinentes,
cerebelli functionem probant.
Plurimi fatui sunt qui, quanquam mentis et rationis inopes, tamen veneris
stimulum vehementem sentiunt, eorumque amentia masturbationi, cui dediti
sunt, vulgo tribuitur. Veneris abusu et nimium seminis effusione intellectu
debiltari minime negandum est; tamen in hoc casu fatuorum, masturbatio non
est causa, sed effectus amentire. His miseris frons et superior cerebri pars ad-
modum exigua, collum vero et pars capitis posterior grandia sunt. Hinc ratione
carentes, ut alia animalia, voluptati indulgent. Idem observatur in quibusdam
Cretini appellatis. Hi srepe paulum cerebri cum grandi cerebella habent. Non
tamen verum est, illorum organa genitalia semper grandiora, eosque admodum
lascivos esse. Sic est in multis, sed non in omnibus. In pluribus fatuis atque
hydrocephalis valde lascivis cerebelli et partium genitalium magnitudo non est
exigua. Hoc vero facile explanari potest. Cerebellum speciale et distinctum
systema comprehendit, et hinc functiones cerebri turbatre atque oppressre esse
possunt, dum cerebellum, per tentorium a cerebro separatum, suis officiis fungi
continuatur. Quoniam honor, pudor et ratiociniurn desunt, hi miseri veneris ap-
petentiam sequuntur.
Demum gesticulationes, seu lingua naturalis, hujus propensionis sedem indi-
cant. Alibi hanc materiem plenius explicabo. Regulum profitebor ex qufl. ges-
ticul:J.tiones congruunt cum organorum sedibus. Quum copulandi amor nos
agit, caput totumque corpus supina sunt; manus in posteriorem colli partem
feruntur. Quas amoris•gesticulationes pictores et statuarii srepe sunt imitati.
In avibus atque mammalibus, ante co:itum, mares, ut in freminis copulandi appe-
tentiam incitet, earwn colla srepenumero titillant. Hinc, quum de omnibus hisce
exemplis et argumentis cogitamus, cerebellum amoris seu veneris appetentire or-
ganum esse admittere debemus.
Nonnulli contendunt, copulandi appetentiam organum proprium habere non
posse, quia plurima animalia tantum certis anni temporibus catuliunt. Hrec
objectio eandem vim haberit, si contra aliam, qurecumque sit, amoris causam
152 PHRENOLOGY.
more frequently among mankind than among animals ; yet there is a
constant relation between the developement of the cerebellum and
the propensity in question.
It has Leen objected, that the brain in general is larger in men
than in women, and that consequently it is not astonishing that the
cerebella of men should also be larger than those of women. Many
individuals, however, have large brains and small cerebella, and
opponeretur; exempli gratia si sanguinem, aut partes genitales, hujus appeten-
tire causam acciperemus. Porro plurima organa non omni tempore officiis suis
fungi notum est: mammre non semper lac secernunt. Idem igitur cerebella
accidere potest. Difficilis quidem est qmestio, utrum animalium cerebella, du
rantc rugitu, magnitudine crescant, an magis excitentur; experimenta desunt,
scimus tamen, dum catuliunt, colla insolito modo calescere.
Alii opponunt, vegetabilia sine cerebella propagari: hinc idem in animalibu~
fieri posse, atque partes genitales sufficientes esse dicunt. Partes genitales hujus
appetentire causam sufficientem non esse, jam supra demonstravi. In animalium
ac plantarum propagatione comparata, propagatio ipsa cum ejus appetentia con-
funditur. In vegetabilibus propagatio est simplex fructificatio, actus organicus,
in animalibus autem, prreter actum organicum, ejus appetentia quoque existit.
In plantis atque animalibus, procreatio reque se habet ac nutritus. Plantre nu-
trimentum capiunt, sed neque esuriunt nee sitiunt, id .est, neque famem nee
sitim sentiunt, sicut animalibus res est. Prreterea, animalia nutrimenti saporis
quoque conscia sunt, plantre vero hoc sensu carent. Hinc in plantis, nutritus est
simplex ; in animalibus, tribus functionem speciebus constat : digestione scilicet
seu assimilatione, famis et sitis sensatione et gustu. Procreationis eadem est
ratio. In plantis est solummodo actus organicus; in animalibus, prreter testium
et uteri actionem organicam, hujus rei appetentia existit, et ecoitu animalia aeli-
cias capiunt. Atque hujus appetentire organum est cerebellum.
Organa, ad eandem functionem pertinentia, sese invicem incitare notum est;
sic fames incitat gnstum, gustus famem, et ambo incitant digestionem. Sic quo-
que copulandi appetentia seminis secretionem, et hrec istam incitat. Attamen,
Iicet variarum partium incitatio sit mutua, earum ratio nou est directa. Digest10
appetitui non semper respondet, nee appetitus digestioni : itemque nee veneris
appetentia seminis secretionem, nee hrec functio illam propensionem semper
adrequat.
Ex hisce considerationibus hujus appetentire abusus facillime concipiuntur.
Oriuntur enim eadem modo quo abusus famis et sitis. Corporis regenerandi
causa nutrimenta sumenda sunt; sed quum nutrimenta, aut enimii quantitate,
aut emala ipsorum qualitate, saluti obnoxia sunt, evenit abusus. Famem sitim-
que e quadem organisatione pendere certum est, sed voracitatis ac ebrietatis or·
ganum non datur: Res item se habet cum veneris appetentia; pendet i cerebella,
nimia autem cerebelli incitatio aut ejus conditio vitiosa abusum producit
ORGAN OF AMATIVENESS. 153
vice versa. There is consequently no proportion between the brain
and the cerebellum. The sexual propensity, moreover, is never in
proportion to the size of the brain ; but creteris paribus, always to
that of the cerebellum.
This organ, like all others, may be confirmed from observing
nations as well as individuals who feel this propensity in a high de~
gree. Various pathological facts in confirmation of the functions
of the cerebellum are mentioned in the Memoires de Chirmgie, by
Baron Larrey, in the Elements of Physiology, by Richerand, in
the work on Apoplexy, by Serres, &c. Gall and myself have ob-
served several facts of this kind.
\Ve may even take the position of the cerebellum as confirmato-
ry of its destination. The desire destined to preserve the species,
is the most common in animals, and the cerebellum accordingly is
the most inferior portion of the brain.
From all that has been said, and from the infinite number of ob-
servations made on man and animals, we conclude that the speeial
function of the cerebellum is fairly establisheJ, and think that the
mutilations practised by .M. Flourens, and Mr. l\lagendie, at Paris,
do not invalidate our conclusions drawn from the healthy state.
The former infers from his experiments, that the cerebellum serves
for the regulation of muscular motion ; whilst similar experiments
made by l\1agendie, occasioned an irresistible tendency in the ani-
mals to run or swim back.
The only point we have still to examine, is the name which will
best express the primitive faculty. Gall calls it the instinct ofprop-
agation. It certainly is essential to that end, but it often acts
without there being any intention ·to continue the species, and is
also satisfied in various ways incompatible with such a purpose.
We do not usually speak of the nerves of the instinct of nutrition,
but of those of hunger and thirst. The same language should be
used when speaking of the organ in question. Gall's name does
not express the whole sphere of activity of the faculty. Now I
constantly insist on the importance of adopting titles which do not
designate determinate actions. Physical love indicates a more
20
154 PHRENOLOGY.
general application than the love or instinct of propagation, but this
instinct or desire is no more pl·ysical than the love of offspring, or
self-love, or the love of glory, &c. ; I therefore prefer the name of
Jlmativeness.
To observe accurately .and to substantis.~e the organs in general,
it is necessary to know their situations. The organ of amativeness
is situated at the top of the neck, and its size may be knmvn by
considering the space between the m3stoid process immediately be-
hind the ear, and the protube1·ance called occipital spine in the mid-
dle of the hind head, in all its dimensions. Those who would make
observations on the cerebellum of the lower animals, should know
the variety of structure it presents among them. In birds it is al-
most single ; in the mammalia it has lateral parts or lobes added to
its fundamental or middle portion (processus verrniformis.) More
details of the structure of the cerebellum are given in my work on
the Anatomy of the Brain.
Practical Reflections.
The reader must bear in mind that the cerebellum IS only the
organ of the amative impulse, and not of the generative power. Its
influence in society is immense. It may excite various feelings,
such as combativeness, adhesiveness, and destructiveness, inspire
timid persons with great moral courage, and at other times and un-
der different circ?mstances, mitigates our nature, and increases the
mutual regards of th~ sexes towards each other. The cock shows
benevolence to hens ; in general the males are milder to females
than to individuals of their own sex, and so are men more kind
and generous towards women, than towards other men. Fathers
are commonly more attached to daughters, than to sons, and
mothers are often prepossessed in favor of their sons. Female
servants frequently show greater attention to young boys than to
girls. The attraction of sexes towards each other is involuntary)
and society improves, if both sexes meet, &c.
On the other hand, this propensity has caused great disorder
ORGAN OF PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 155
as well in civil as in other peculiar, especially, religious institutions,
where its activity has not been duly considered. Can it be reason-
able to admit every youth to a profession, the members of which
are compelled to swear chastity for life ? If such a vow be neces-
sary, would it not be better to destine to the profession of religion
those only who are born eunuchs, or those in whom the cerebellum
is very little active ?
The disorderly satisfaction of the amative propensity undermines
the health of individuals, and even of the species ; and I think that
as soon as young persons understand the difference and the dis-
tinction of the sexual functions, they should be taught the laws of
propagation, and not be k!fPt in a state of ignorance that may pro-
voke a fatal euriosity, compromising in the end their own and
their descendants bodily and mental constitution. This work be-
ing devoted to physiological inquiries alone, it would be out of
place to say more on the influence of the organ of amativeness
here. Important reflections might be made since we see seduc-
tion encouraged, and h:1ve daily opportunities of witnessing the
disastrous consequences of neglecting ~L proper direction. I wish
every one were convinced how nearly legislators, moralists, teach-
ers, physicians, and all friends of humanity are concerned in regu-
lating the sexual propensity. In this respect I refer the reader, to
my philosophical principles, in the chapter, where I treat on the
happiness of man, and to the first section of my work on Education.
III. Organ of Philoproge~itiveness.
I shall consider, in the first place, whether it be necessary or
not to admit a particular feeling which watches over and provides
for the wants of a helpless offspring, and then state the circum-
stances which led to the discovery of its organ.
Neither males nor females of certain tribes of animals take any
care of their progeny. Their eggs are resigned to chance, or
rather to the influence of some external agent. This happens
amongst insects, fishes, and reptiles. Among birds, too, the cue-
156 PHRENOLOGY.
koo is a striking example of absence of parental solicitude. Its
propensity to physical love is great, but it neither builds a nest nor
hatches its eggs. The-se are deposited in the nests of small birds
which live on insects, and they hatch and rear the young cuckoo,
with particular attachment.
The females of other kinds of animals alone take care of their
progeny; bulls, stallions, dogs, cocks, &c., are indifferent about
their young, while the cow, mare, bitch, hen, &c., are extremely
attached to them.
The males and females of other tribes, again, form an attach-
ment for life, and both sexes tend their offspring. The instinct
of parental love is, however, more enerietic in the females. The
fox, which resembles in so many points, difiers from the dog in so
far as he is attached to his female for life, shares in all her cares,
and if she happens to be killed~ continues to provide for the young
ones. Parental love, nevertheless, is stronger in the female than
in the male ; for if both be pursued, the male leaves the young
sooner than the female. Many kinds of birds also live in pairs,
and are jointly solicitous in satisfying the wants of the young.
These differences are constant; does not each of them, even on
the slightest consideration, seem to require peculiar organization?
In the human race this propensity is generally stronger in women
than in men. This truth is proclaimed not only by the difference
between fathers and mothers, but also by that betlveen the sexes
-universally. 'Ve never hire male servants to take care of our
children. Girls show the predominance of philoprog~nitiveness ear-
ly in life, by their choice of play-things. They attach themselves
to dolls and cradles, whilst boys prefer drums, horses, whips, &c.
Among all kinds of animals which take care of their progeny,
there are always some females who feel little or none of the pro-
pensity, and certain males who manifest the inclination strongly.
There are even women who look on children as a heavy burden,
though the majority deem them their chief treasure and greatest
source of happiness; and this not only in the miserable portion of
society, but indiscriminately among rich and poor. Cases of insan-
ORGAN Or, PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 157
ity are by no means unfrequent in which the function of parental
love is deranged.
All the general arguments, in fine, adduced to prove the plural-
ity of the organs, may be applied to the organ of philoprogenitive-
ness in particular.
To answer the objections made against love of offspring, as a
fundamental power, will be an easy task. This feeling is certain-
ly not the result of reason, since it acts sometimes in opposition to
reason in spoiling children. It acts like an instinct, or as a pro-
pensity. It has been said, that it is the result of self-love, of the
desire of suckling, and of the moral sentiments, and not of a pecu-
liar propensity. These causes, though commonly admitted, are,
however,' inadequate to produce the love of offspring, since in
many animals strongly attached to their progeny, they do not ex-
ist. Birds, and the males of mammiferous animals, do not give
suck, yet many of them love their young. .Mothers very frequently
do not suckle their children, they are, nevertheless, exceedingly
attached to them. No animal, lower in the scale than man, has
any idea of duty, or moral responsibility; and the tenderness of
mothers, of the human species, is never in proportion to the moral
and religious sentiments with which they are endowed. On the
other hand, thi.:; feeling cannot be the result of benevolence in gen-
eral, since it exists often in a high degree in the most brutal tribes,
as in the Caribs, and in ferocious animals.
Others again have said, this propensity cannot be fundamental,
because it is not always active. The same objection may, with
equal propriety, be made against every instinct of animals, and
against all the desires of man. No fundamental power seems ca-
pable of acting continually ; each demands repose from time to
time, and its intermissions of activity are shorter or longer, where-
ever the cause of activity resides, whether in the blood, in the vis-
cera, or in the cerebral parts.
It is further objected, that mothers are not alike fond of every
individual of their family, that they sometimes prefer one to anoth-
er, nay, that they even hate one, and remain attached to the rest.
158 PHRENOLOGY.
This observation holds good, not only in mankind, but also
among animals ; still it is wrong to infer from it, that philoprogeni-
tiveness is no fundamental faculty. The external senses are not
equally nor always agreeably affected by all kinds of impressions,
nevertheless they have their particular functions. The stomach
digests one sort of food more easily than another, and, notwith-
standing, it remains the organ of digestion. The sense of taste
cannot be denied, since certain savors are unpleasant. :Moreover,
philoprogenitiveness is not the only feeling that acts and requires
satisfaction ; a mother will naturally prefer that child who pleases
the greatest number of her faculties, and whose dispositions most
nearly resemble her own ; and she may be less kind to another who
is differently constituted, or who disturbs her happiness.
The love of offspring, then, must be considered as a fundamental
power, and a peculiar organ for its manifestations admitted. Let
us now see how this was discovered.
At an early period of his observations, Gall was attracted by a
peculiar and very regularly occurring protuberance on the back
part of the heads of females. (Pl. IV. fig. 1.) He also found a
similar projection in the skulls of children and of monkeys. Con-
vinced that the large mass of brain in this situation must perform
some important function in the animal economy, all his efforts,
during a period of five. years, to detect its office, were notwith-
standing unsuccessful. At first he fancied it might indicate the
greater nervous irritability and sensibility of women and children ;
but he soon saw that irritability was a common quality of every
organ, and therefore abandoned this supposition. In his courses
of lectures delivered from time to time, he was in the habit of
mentioning his difficulties relative to this protuberance, when at
last a clergyman remarked, that monkeys were very much attached
to their young ones. Reflecting on this suggestion, viewing the
situation of the cerebral part, immediately above the organ of ama-
tivimess, and appealing to observation, Gall soon established its
proper function. The developement of the organ he found con-
stantly to coincide with the energy of the propensity, which pronipts
ORGAN OF PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 159
to protect and succor the young. Species, sexes, and individuals,
powerfully endowed with the love of offspring, have the organ
grea~ly developed. 1Vomen and females have it commonly larger
than men and males. Gall possesses the skull of a woman who
became diseased, and had the notion of being pregnant with five
children ; the corresponding organ in this skull is exceedingly
large. Several nations are remarkable for this propensity. The
attachment of negroes and Indoos to their offspring is known ; and
they have the organization on which the feeling depends prominent.
As the English language possesses no single word that indicates
love of ofl'spring, I ha,re employed two Greek roots, which, in
conjunction, define accurately the primitive propensity. The title
that results is long ; but I could not say philogenitiveness, because
that would indicate the love of producing ofispring. As, however,
progeny is synonymous with offspring, and philoprogeny means the
love of offspring, I adopt the term philoprogenitiveness for the fac-
ulty of producing the love of offspring.
Practical Re
flections.
The faculty of philoprogenitiveness is obviously destined to the
preservation of the tender and weak offspring, and its intensity is
the strongest in a mother during the first months after birth, when
it is the most necessary to the tender and helpless progeny. Some-
times it is too active, and produces many disorders, principally by
spoiling children. Parents might often spare themselves a great
deal of pain and much uneasiness, did they maintain this propensity
in harmony with the other primitive faculties. A mother may
behave unjustly to others for the sake of her children. On the
other hand, the small size of the organ, or its inactivity, renders
her indifferent to children. (Pl. IV. fig. 2.) This condition ought
to be considered as one of the indirect causes promptmg to infai?ti-
cide. Gall and I have examined the heads of twenty-nine women
guilty of infanticide, and in twenty-five of them the organ of philo
progenitiveness was very small The small size of this organ,
160 PHRENOLOGY.
however, does not excite a mother to destroy her child ; but she
who is destitute of the love of offspring is less able to combat those
external circumstances which provoke a commission of the crime.
Such a mother will not resist. as she would have done, had she
been influenced by the powerful sway which philoprogenitiveness
exerts over the female mind.
I have already pointed out the place of philoprogenitiveness.
Although the protuberance, which indicates its great developement,
be commonly single, the organ itself is always double, that is,
there is one on each side of the middle line of the head. It ap-
pears single when the posterior lobes of the brain are very near to
each other, and double when they are somewhat separated. This
difference of form is common to all the cerebral organs situated on
each side of the mesial plane. This organ is often large, rather in
breadth than in length.
By means of this and the preceding organ, it is very easy to dis-
tinguish the skulls of males from those of females of the same kind ;
and it is peculiarly worthy of notice that throughout all animals
there is a striking similarity preserved in the form of the skulls of
each sex. The skulls of men and males are generally shorter and
wider, those of women and females longer and narrower.
Some phrenologists in Scotland think that a softness of manner,
and a sympathy for whatever is weak and helpless, generally ac-
company, and are connected with large philoprogenitiveness. I
have already mentioned, that Gall entertained a similar idea at the
beginning, but gave it up, and that the love of offspring may be
very active in individuals of rough and brutal manners. The Carib
race, endO\ved with great ferocity, are much attached to their young,
and submit to all the inconveniences of bringing them up, amidst
privations and hardships of every kind. The New Zealanders are
the same. In the Library of Entertaining Knowledge, vol. i. p.
35D, we read, 'rrhe New Zealanders, both parents, are in general
fondly attached to their children, and treat them with great kind-
ness and indulgence. Mr. Ellis, during the short time he spent at
the Bay of Islands in 1816, went on~ day to the residence of the
ORGAN OF ADHESIVENESS. 161
chief Telora to request him to accompany himself on a short ex-
cursion, which the chief immediately agreed to. But, says Mr.
Ellis, before we sat out, an incident occurred which greatly raised
my estimation of his character. In the front of the hut sat his
wife, and round her playing two or three children. In passing
from the hut to the boat, Teloro struck one of the little ones with
his foot. The child cried, and though the chief had his mat on,
and his gun in his hand, and was in the act of stepping into the
boat, where we were waiting for him, he no sooner heard the cries
than he turned back, took the child up in his arms, stroked its
1ittle head, dried its tears, and giving it to the mother, hastened to
join us.'
The tiger, hyena, and the most ferocious tribes of animals, show
a fondness for their young, not inferior to that of the gentlest and
most docile. Philoprogenitiveness produces only sympathy for
young beings, but not tende·rness in general. It may be combin-
ed with other tender feelings, and increase their activity towards
children. ,
IV. Ot·gan of JJ.dhesiveness.
Friendship is commonly considered as the result of reflection,
the consequence of some analogy between the faculties of individ-
uals or as an effect of mutual interest. Some particular instinct,
however, producing various attachments, must be admitted amongst
animals in whom no moral consideration nor any idea of interest
can be supposed to have weight. This seems to be evident from
numerous examples among animals. I ha,re been assured by good
authority that a female fox, brought up with a male fox and left
loose and free, carried to him hares, rabbits, and one mor.ning a
guinea fowl, though there were none of the latter tribe within the
reach of seven miles. All dogs are not susceptible of the same
degree of attachment, though the treatment they receive ought to
excite it ; some, on the contrary, are attached in opposition to
their interest, and though abused and maltreated, still remain faith-
ful to their masters, and die on their graves. Moreover, there is
.21
16.2 PHRENOLOGY.
something involuntary in attachment, and its manifestations are too
early and too sudden to result from reflection. It is evidently a
feeling, and a feeling of the animal nature. Even criminals have
frequently displayed great attachment to their associates ; and in-
stances are not wanting in '\vhich they have preferred self-destruc-
tion to denunciation of their companions. Thus, a highwayman,
confined in the prison of Lichtenstien, near Vienna, hanged him-
self, that he might not be forced to betray his accomplices. ' lUary
Macinnes, executed in Edinburgh for murder, had gained the af-
fections of a person, whose name need not be mentioned, and her
attachment to him continued strong in death, and assumed even a
romantic appearance in the last moments of her mortal career. He
had sent her a pocket handkerchief, having his name written in one
corner, and also half an orange, with a desire that she should eat
the latter on the scaffold, in token of their mutual affection ; he
having eaten the other half, the preceding morning, at tne corres-
ponding hour. She held the corner of the napkin in her mouth,
almost all the night preceding her execution, and even on the
scaffold. When seated on the drop, the turnkey gave her the half
orange, she took it out of his band without the least fear-she
seemed to have forgot eternity in the ardm- of her attachment.'
Phrenol. Transact. p. 376.
Though the necessity of some organ of attachment was evident,
it was difficult, however, to point out its seat in man ; his actions
being sometimes embellished by the appearance of friendship,
whilst but little of the feeling subsists in reality. Gall examined
the head of a woman, at Vienna, who was looked upon as a model
of friendship ; she had suffered many changes of fortune, had been
alternately rich and poor, but was ahvays attached to her former
friends. He found the cerebral part situated upward and outward
from the organ of pbiloprogenitiveness, very prominent, and called
it the organ of friendship. He neglected, during a long time, to
make farther observations on this organ, but many facts have sub-
sequently been gathered, and its seat is now ascertained. (Pl. P:
fig. 1 and 2. IV.)
ORGAN OF ADHESIVENESS. 163
The strength of attachment is very different in different species
of animals, and even in individuals of the same kind ; it is ;reater
in women than in men, and greater in one nation than in another.
This faculty induces individuals ol' the same kinds to congregate,
and live in society. In severe-.! species, tuo, the male:, and females
are attached for life, and dwell domestically together. The fox
and many birds are examples of this. The t\vo sexes would leave
€ach other as soon as the amative propensity is satisfied, did not
nature, by a peculiar instinct, prevent this. Yet it is to be observ-
ed that the instinct of attachment for life, and that of society, are
not mere degrees of energy of the faculty of attachment. For there
.are animals which live in society without being attached for life, as
the bull, dog, cock, &c.; others which live in society and in fami-
lies, as starlings, ravens, crows, &c. ; and others again which are
attached for life without living in society, as the fox, magpie, &c.
The instinct, therefore, of living in society, and that of living in
family, are modifications proper and peculiar in their nature, in
the same way as the relish for vegetables or flesh is a morlification
of smell and taste in carnivorous and herbivorous animals. l\Ian
belongs to the class of animals which is social and attached for life ;
society and marriage are consequently not effects of human reflec-
tion, but of an original decree of the Creator.
Gall does not coincide in the opinion that attachment for life in
man and animals results from this feeling. He thinks that mar-
riage exists in animals, since both the male and female concur in
taking care of their progeny. I grant that this feeling may assist
the love of offspring, and may be influenced by amativeness and
philoprogenitiveness, but it seems to me, that if attachment of sexes
were the result of philoprogenitiveness, both sexes would only re-
main together as long as their love of offspring lasts, and is neces-
sary to the preservation of their y6ung. On the other hand, men
and women may be attached to each other for life, without the
least desire of offspring. It seems to me, that the special faculty
now under consideration extends its sphere of activity still farther,
and that it attaches us to our parents, brothers, sisters, and friends,
164 PHRENOLOGY.
and to all beings around us, to plants, animals and things ; in short,
to all we possess, whether animate or inanimate. It produces also
the feeling of habit or custom. Friendship consequently is only
one of the modifications of the faculty. If attachment for life belong
to some portion of its organ, it must be to that which is nearest the
organ of philoprogenitiveness.
In conformity with the preceding considerations, the name Ad-
hesiveness seems to me capable of denoting this special faculty,
\vhose objects are friendship, marriage, society and attachment in
general. The term adhesiveness has been used hitherto merely in
a physical sense ; but many other words, which now bear a mental
signification, were in the like case originally. Attachment would
indicate only the effect of this faculty, and I require a name which
expresses the faculty of producing. such an effect. Abuse results
from its too great energy, in regretting over-much the loss of a
friend, &c. 1Vithont attachment men become anchorites and
hermits.
V. Organ of Inhabitiveness.
When we examine the habits and manners of animals, we see
that different kinds are attached to particular regions and countries.
Nature having intended tbat every region and every country should
be inhabited, has assigned to all animals their dwellings, and given
to every species a propensity to live in some particular local situa~
tion. If we place an animal in any region other than that destined
for it, it feels ill or uneasy, and seeks to return to its natural dwel-
ling. Some seek the water from the first moment of their exist-
ence. Turtles and ducks, as soon as they are hatched, mn to-
wards it. Other young animals again, stay upon dry land ; some
of these prefer elevated and mountainous regions ; some the level
country ; and others the marshes. Among the feathered tribes,
some live in the higher, others in the lower regions ; for the power
of flying does not produce the instinct that prompts the eagle to soax
into the highest regions of air ; other birds, though their power of
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 165
fiying is very great, have not this propensity. Some birds build
en the tops, some in the middle, and others in holes of trees ; some
on the earth, some in the banks of rivers, &c. Now what is the
<;:ause of this modified instinct ?
It is often said that animals choose their particular dwellings ac-
cording to their general organization. Birds are organized to fly,
fishes to swim, and the chamois and wild-goat to climb upon
mountains.
It is true, that the external and internal organization of animals
is adapted to their manner of living ; fishes cannot exist in the air,
nor birds under water. Moreover, animals commonly find their
food in the places which they inhabit. This alone, however, is
not the only condition that determines their particular dwellings.
Some love situations where there is no food ; the chamois and wild-
goat dwell upon rocks which are entirely barren, and are obliged
to descend into the middle regions to find their sustenance. Again,
there are kinds which like the higher regions of the air, and which
yet seek their food upon the earth. Eagles and hawks hover very
high, but catch their prey upon the ground. Does the lark require
to ascend into the air to sing ? In the philosophical part, where I
treat of the innateness of the faculties, I show that it is impossible
to attribute the origin of any faculty of man or animals to ex-
ternal circumstances.
Parrots, eagles, pigeons, and swallmvs live upon very different
substances, and are very differently organized, yet they are all fond
of flying high in the air. In conformity, then, with these consid-
erations, we must admit the existence of a particular faculty with
its special organ, which determines animals in the selection of a
habitation.
Let us now say a few words on the opinion of Gall upon this
subject. After having paid great attention to the organ of pride in
man, he examined such animals as are .generally esteemed proud,
the cock, peacock, &c., but could distinguish no analogy bet\veen
the cerebral organs of these animals and those of proud persons.
He, however, observed in tribes which have a great propensity to
166 PHRENOLOGY.
'elevated stations, as in the chamois and wild-goat, a protuberance
which he identified with the organ that produces pride and haugh-
tiness in man.
It is certain, and must be conceded, that animals which live on
mountains, or which are fond of high regions, have one part of
their brain more developed than the species of the same genus
which live in flat and low countries. This difference is very sen-
sible in roes, hares, rats, cats, &c. Yet it appears to me that this
circumstance by no means authorizes the conclusion, that the fac-
ulty which leads animals to seek elevated situations is essentially
the same as that which makes man proud and haughty.
Gall thinks that the situation of the organ of pride in man cor-
responds with that of the organ of the instinct which prompts ani-
mals to seek physical elevation. I, on the other hand, maintain,
that the place of an organ can prove nothing, when animals of dif-
ferent kinds are spoken of. For if different animals be endowed
with dissimilar faculties, their organs may still occupy correspond-
ing places of the head. )Ve have, I suppose, three sorts, whose
faculties are quite different. The organs of these fill, in each, the
skull ; of course, it is here evidently impossible to maintain that
the faculties of the three are the same, because corresponding pla-
ces of the head are well developed. It is true, that when an ani-
mal possesses a faculty in common with man, the organ of that fac-
ulty is situated in both in the same part of the head. Now it ap-
pears to me that the place of the protuberance which indicates the
instinct of animals for physical height, does not correspond with
that which in man produces self-esteem and pride. In animals it
is immediately above the organ of philoprogenitiveness ; but the
corresponding cerebral part in man was unobserved by, and un-
known to Gall. Certainly, it is not the organ of self-esteem ; this
lies much higher. Hence, a comparison of the situations of the
organs of both faculties is rather against than in favor of Gall's as-
sertion.
He also supports his opinion by saying, that different faculties
which are merely physical in animals, become moral in man, and
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 167
quotes physical love as an example. Now I think that all physi-
cal faculties common to man and animals preserve their nature in
man, and that the faculty of physical love is in itself always the
same. It is obvious, however, that this propensity may be ac-
companied by other sentiments, especially by attachment. The
bull is sometimes particularly attached to one amongst a herd of
cows ; and I have seen Canary birds which would not mate with
certain individuals. Though separated, they still remained attach-
ed to their former partners. Moreover, if the organ of amative-
ness be singly active in man, it is always without morality; in some
hydrocephalic persons and idiots from birth, physical love resem-
bles .that of animals entirely. Hence, whatever is moral in ama-
tiveness depends on other faculties which accompany it; it is also
observed that man and animals modify the manifestations of the
propensity, in proportion as they are endowed with other disposi-
tions. If a man or an animal be prone to attachment and physical
love at the same time, these faculties will act conjointly ; physical
love will be modified by attachment, and attachment by physical
love.
Platonic love, it is replied, ordinarily finishes in physical love.
I agree with this; but can we therefore conc1ude that platonic is
the same as physical love ? I am not hungry because I have taste
or smell ; but if the sense of smell be stimulated by any savory
odor, and that of taste and the feeling of hunger be thereby excit-
ed, and notwithstanding my first intention not to eat I eat, will it
be maintained that smell and the desire to eat are the same? If
we examine platonic or moral love, we find that all the sentiments
which are felt at the same time with the propensity to physical
love, may be attributed to other special faculties and their respect-
ive organs. In the same manner it seems to me impossible to
confound the instinct of physical height with the sentiment of self-
love and pride : I believe it possible to have a great opinion of
one's self in all regions, and in all countries.
Gall adds that mountaineers are proud, and particularly attach-
ed to their independence and moral liberty. Being attached to
168 PHRENOLOGY.
mountains does not exclude self-esteem and firmness·, which lead
to independency. .Moreover, I do not think that the inhabitants
of Switzerland have more natural pride than the Hungarians. The
former, however, struggled for independence, while the latter
could not endure the civil liberties which the Emperor Joseph the
Second allowed them. The Spaniards are notoriously proud, but
show little inclination to be free.
Gall quotes several examples of proud persons being particularly
fond of climbing upon mountains, and to great elevations. :My
experience has shown me both proud and humble persons, who
felt a peculiar pleasure in going upon towers and other elevated
places ; but they did so to see the scenery of the surrounding
country. This inclination then belongs to the organ of locality, as
I shall afterwards explain.
Finally, Gall particularly insists on those natural expressions, or
actions, by which the sentiment of pride is manifested. Proud
children, says he, mount upon chairs, in order to be on a level
with grown-up persons ; and adults, of small stature, often do the
same to gratify their self-love ; proud persons keep their body
erect, and have a haughty gait. In general, all expressions of
pride and superiority are combined with physical elevation : thus,
kings and emperors sit upon elevated thrones; they receive their
power from above, &c. &c.
All external manifestations of proud persons may be explained
upon the pathognomical principle of the motions of the body in
general, and the motions of the head in particular, being in the
direction of the organ which is active. Now the organ of pride is
situated upwards and backwards, and all the motions of pride are in
these directions.
Thu~, I separate the instinct which carries animals to physical
elevation, from the sentiment which produces self-love and pride ;
and I consider the first as a modification of the feeling which deter-
mines the d\velling-places of animals.
The cerebral part above the organ of philoprogenitiveness in
man, is more or less developed, independently of the neighboring
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 169
parts, and must be considered as endowed with some peculiar
function. On the other hand, the instinct of animals to choose a
peculiar d\velling-place is special, in no proportion to any other
instinct, hence, it must be attached to a particular organ. This
being modified, its modified functions are explained in the same
way as those of the senses of taste and smell in herbivorous and
carnivorous animals; the organ, however, cannot be pointed out
by comparing animals which li\·e in different elements ; our obser-
vations must be confined to such as inhabit the same element or
the same country, and chiefly to individuals remarkable for a higher
degree of the peculiar dispositions. This propensity being com-
mon to many animals, its organ must be deeply seated in the brain,
and must be looked for in the region of the other propensities. I
consider in animals the cerebral part immediately above the organ
of philoprogenitiveness, as the organ of the instinct that prompts
them to select a peculiar dwelling, and call it the organ of inhabit-
iveness. It is known that cats are more attached to places, and
dogs to persons. The former remain in the house which is sold,
while the latter follows his master. My attention has been, and is
still directed to such individuals of the human kind, as show a par-
ticular disposition in regard to their dwelling-place. I have many
facts in confirmation. I saw a clergyman in .Manchester, known
to his friends as particularly attached to his dwelling-place, so that
he should be unhappy if obliged to sleep elsewhere. I examined
his head in company of several 'gentlemen, some of whom were
opponents, but every one was obliged to admit that the spot of the
head where No. V. is situated, was warmer than the rest of the
head. I merely asked what part was the warmest, and all agreed
at the same place. Some nations are extremely attached to their
country, while others are readily induced to migrate. Some tribes
of the American Indians and Tartars, wander about without fixed
habitations, while other savages have a settled home. Mountain-
eers are commonly much attached to their native soil, and those of
them who visit capitals or foreign countries, seem c.hiefly led by
the hope of gaining money enough to return home and buy a little
22
170 PHRENOLOGY.
property, even though the land should be dearer there than else-
where. I therefore invite the phrenologists who have an opportu-
nity of visiting various nations particularly fond of their country, to
examine the developement of the organ marked No. V., and situat-
ed immediately above philoprogenitiveness.
Some persons think that inhabitiveness may give the delight to
see foreign countries, and to travel, but it is quite the reverse ; the
former delight depends on locality. Those who have inhabitive-
ness large and locality small, do not like to leave home ; those who
have both organs large, like to travel, but to return home, and to
settle at last.
In all civilized nations, some individuals have a great predilec-
tion for residing in the country. If professional pursuits oblige
them to live in town, their endeavor is to collect a fortune as
speedily as possible, that they may indulge their leading propensity.
I have examined the heads of several individuals of tlus descrip-
tion, and found the parts in question much developed.
A friend of mine, .M. de Tremmon, of Paris, suggested the idea
to look for an organ of which agriculture is a result, since there
are organs which dispose man to hunt, to build, to collect food,
and to cultivate arts and sciences. This remark is undoubtedly
philosophical, since nature attaches pleasure to every occupation
on which the preservation of the species depends. Now, agricul-
ture contributes greatly to the ge,neral lvelfare, and it is not prob-
able that nature was negligent in tlus point. Hence, I have also
examined the organ marked No. V., in relation to this peculiar dis-
position, and have found it large in several who are fond of living
in the country, and of agricultural pursuits. I mention these ideas
only to excite investigation, not by any means as being certain and
established. Once confirmed, inhabitil'eness \vill be considered as
presenting modifications in the same '"ay as every other special
power does.
Mr. Combe, and several members of the Phrenological Society
of Edinburgh, think that the function of the cerebral part we are
discussing,' is to ma-intain two or more powers in simultaneous
ORGAN OF !NHABITIVENESS. 171
and combined activity, so that they may be directed towards one
object,' anJ name it the organ of conce.ntrr~,tiveness.
'The first step,' says Mr. Combe,* 'in the discovery of this
function, was the observation that <.,ertain individuals are naturally
prone to sedentary habits, aci find it pai11ful to stir aoJroad without
a ~pecial motive, and 6is too of considerable urgency. Other
persons experience equal difficulty in settling ; their strongest de-
sire is to engage in some active employment, in "·hich their atten-
tion shall be carried as it were out of themselves, and occupied in
external oLjects and occurrences. The former \Vere percei,,ed to
possess t~is vrgan large, the latter small.'
' The next step was the observation that some persons poc::sess
a natural tendency to li,-e, as it were, within themselves, whose
minds seem habitually occupied with internal meditation, and of
supporting a close and vigorous attention ; w!10, in short~ have u
natural facility pf concentrating their thoughts, w;thout the tendency
to be distracted by the intrusion of feelings or ideas foreign to the
main point under consideration. Such persons possess a com-
mand over their intellectual powers, so as to be able to apply
them in their whole vigor to the pursuit which forms the object of
their study for the time ; and hence they produce the greatest pos-
sible results from the intellectual endowment which nature has be·
sto\ved on them. Other individuals, on the other hand, have been
observed, who find their thoughts lost in dissipation, who are unable
to keep the leading idea in its situation of becoming prominence,
are distracted by accessaries, and, in short, experience great diffi-
culty in combining their whole powers to a single object. These
persons,.even with considerable reflecting talents, fail to produce
a corresponding general effect, and their mental productions are
characterized by the intrusion of irrelevant ideas, and the unper--
ceived omission of important particulars, arising from the disjoint-
ed action of their several faculties. The organ was perceived to
be large in the former, and small in the latter.
' Probably it is by the exercise of a power resembling eoncen-
" Elements of Phrenology, 3d Edition, p. 328.
172 PHRENOLOGY.
trativeness, that animals, such as the chamois, who are fond of
heights, are enabled to maintain in action all those faculties which
are necessary to preserve their position, while they browse in dif-
ficult or dangerous situations ; and, at the same time, avoid the
aim of the hunter. There appears, therefore, nothing in the limit-
ed observations of Dr. Spurzheim inconsistent with the more ex-
tensive views now taken of the functions of the faculty.'
As the analysis of the fundamental powers of the mind is an es-
sential object of Phrenology; and as every suggestion \vhich comes
from Mr. Combe deserves my full attention, since he is undouht~
edly one of the most able and successful defenders of Phrenology,
I shall examine all his arguments which m*
ake him admit an organ
of concentrativeness. His actual ideas on this faculty seem to be
modified from his former conception. I examine them as they arc
stated in the third and last edition of his System of Phrenology.
But if I do not agree with him on this subject, it is not from want
of esteem for his opinions, but merely, because I am not convinced
of their correctness. Farther investigation and observation must
decide who of us is in the right and who in the wrong.
'Some persons,' says Mr. Combe, 1. i. p. 135, 'possess a nat-
ural consciousness of every thing that goes on in their own minds,
in which power others seem remarkably deficient. The former
can detain their feelings and ideas, and deliberately examine their
character and consistency ; the latter cannot do this ; their minds
are like the surface of a mirror, on which each feeling and thought
appears like the shadow of a moving object, m;::tking a momentary
impression and passing away. They experience great difficulty
in detaining their emotions and ideas, so as to examine and com-
pare them ; and in consequence are little capable of taking sys-
tematic views of any subject, and of concentrating their powers to
bear on one point. I have observed this organ to be large in the
former, and small in the latter.
' It is difficult to describe in words the manner of a man's mind;
but the difference in manifestation is so great bet\veen those in
whom this organ is small and those in whom it is large, that if
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 173
onc·e comprehended, it will always be recognised. In conversing
with some individuals, we find them fall naturally into a connected
train of thinking, till they have placed it clearly before the mind,
or passing naturally and gracefully to a connected topic. Such
persons uniformly have this organ large ; we meet with others who,
in similar circumstances, never pursue one idea for two consecutive
seconds ; who shift from topic to topic without regard to natural
connexion, and leave no distinct impression on the mind of the
listener, and this happens even with individuals in whom reflection
is not deficient ; but this organ is in such persons uniformly small.'
1\Ir. Combe quotes largely from a letter on this subject in the
Phrenological Journal, val. iii. p. 193. I copy the following pas-
sage : ' In Mr. Combe's \VOrK lately published, second edition,
1825, the primitive feeling which gives rise to the phenomena of
concentrativeness, is said to be, the tendency to concentrate the
mind within itself, and to direct its power in a combined effort to
one object. This however may be considered rather as a descrip-
tion of the operation of the power, than a statement of the primary
element to which its phenomena may be traced. If we attend to
what passes in our minds, when we endeavor to concentrate our
thoughts upon a subject, we shall find that we do not attempt any
direct coercion on our different faculties, but simply endeavor to
seize upon the object of thought and keep it steadily before the
mind. \Ve are all occasionally conscious of ineffectual efforts of
attention ; if we examine \vhat we do on such occasions, we shall
find that it consists in an attempt to think of some subject, which
is for the moment less attractive than some other objects, which
are the causes of distraction. An affective concentration of the
faculties take place only when the original leading conceptions
are of themselves powerful and permanent, and the concentration
will be found, consequently, to be most perfect when there ·is
least effort to produce it. \Ve are sensible of this on occasions
which may be either painful or pleasant, when a subject associated
with strong emotion has taken possession of the mind, and when
we find ourselves incapable of banishing from our thoughts, even
174 PHRENOLOGY.
though very desirous of doing so, the train of conceptions which
has so strongly concentrated our powers upon itself, and continues
to keep them in a state of sustained and perhaps distressing activity.
1Ve speak of our minds having the command of our ideas. This
may be correct enough in popular language, but philosophically
speaking our ideas command our mind, and even in those cases
which appear most like exceptions to this principle, it will be found
on examination that it is merely one class of ideas assuming the
predominance over another. When we voluntarily change our
train of thoughts, or endeavor to concentrate our minds upon one
subject, the process is one in which, under an impression of neces-
sity or expediency of attending to the particular subject, ·we pass
from the train of irrelevant ideas, and endeavor to reach by the aid
of our associations the subject which we wish to study ; almost
every individual is capable of this single effort, and he may repeat
it again. But that uninterrupted sustaining of the attention so
given, which constitutes concentrativeness, depends on a quality
distinct from efforts of attention ; a quality most strongly marked
where least effort is necessary, and that is simply the property
which this mental power possesses of giving continuance to thoughts
and feelings wheil they have sprung up in the mind. This prop-
erty appears to exist in different degrees in different minds, to
which of course, the diversity in the manifestations, with which
we are so often presented, is to be mainly attributed.
' Its deficiency,' states the latter in another passage, ' in the
more ordinary degrees, discovers itself in different ways according
to its combination '\Vith other faculti~s. In some individuals it
produces an indisposition to settle into any regular plan of life, or
if this has been controlled by circumstances and other faculties,
there may still be seen a want of method, forethought and contin-
uity, in the various concerns of intercourse or business. The in-
dividual does not appear like one driving constantly towards a
particular object ; his mind takes its direction from shifting circum;
stances, and if other faculties conspire, he may be characterized
by a sort of careless facility or vivacity of disposition. Mr.
ORGAN OF INHABITIVE.NESS. 175
Combe, 3d edition, p. 196, adds ; ' When comparison and causal-
ity are large in combination with large concentrativeness, there is a
tendency to systematic knowledge ; when the latter is deficient
this is not felt, and I regard one element in a systematic mind to
be the power of giving continuousness to feelings and ideas, there-
by enabling the intellect to contemplate the relations subsisting
among them. "\Yhere he treats of the modes of the intellectual
faculties, art. Attention, p. 531, he says : ' Concentrativeness
gives continuity to the 'impressions of the faculties. Individuality
and Eventuality direct them to their objects, and firmness maintains
them in a state of application, and their faculties greatly aid atten-
tion.'
The organ No. V. is small in my head, and when I objected
against the former definition of concentrativeness : ' the tendency
to maintain two or more powers in simultaneous, and combined ac-
tivity so that they may be directed towards one object,' consider-
ing such an operation of the mind rather as intellectual than affective,
I was told that I could not easily concei\'e this primitive power,
since the organ is small in my brain. I confess that this answer
never satisfied my mind. I allow that several feelings and their
respective organs are small in my head; but this did not prevent
me to conceive their existence in others, being guided by reason-
ing and by facts. It is a fundamental principle of my philosophy,
that no individual can be taken as a standard of mankind, and I
can assure that I have this principle present in all my philosophical
disquisitions. I always make abstraction of myself. I admit a
faculty as fundamental, if I can concentrate all the reasons, which
prove the plurality of organs, as stated above; and its special organ,
if it be confirmed by all the means which ·we employ to establish
the organs.
It seems to me that intellect forms what is called conception,
and I can assure that I conceive the definition which Mr. Combe
actually (3d edition) gives of concentrativeness, viz. a primitive
faculty, whieh gives continuity to the impressions of other faculties,
to feelings and ideas. The former definition seemed to me in-
176 PHRENOLOGY.
eluding intellect, and I could not conceive how a directing faculty
should be situated among the former propensities. But from the
new definition I conceive that such a faculty, if it exist, is not in·
ellectual but affective, since it does not imply knowledge, concep-
tion and direction; but then if it be confirmed as a special power,
another name must be given adapted to its essential nature and
actual definition, viz. Continuity of impressions, be they feelings or
ideas.
I shall first examine whether such a primitive faculty is necessary
to explain the mental phenomena. 2d.- If it be admitted, whether
it is the same as inhabitiveness ; and whether there are sufficient
observations to decide about its organ.
Nature never multiplies the means of producing effects without
necessity. Now I acknowledge that certain persons have more
concentration of mind than others. I even find that certain persons
are concentrated in their feelings, are susceptible of concentra-
ted grief, attachment, or any other feeling, whilst they have no
concentration of intellect, though their intellectual powers are not
wanting ; on the other hand, some persons are concentrated in
intellect, and have very little continuity of their feelings. If con-
centrativeness be a primitive pmrer, it should be applicable to
feelings as well as intellect in the same person. Farther, the contin-
uity of impressions seems to me to depend, first on the more or
less developement of the special organs. Every predominant organ
becomes, so to say, the centre of all others, or concentrates the
activity of all others around its o\vn. He who has cautiousness
extremely large, and hope small, feels anxiety combined with every
other power. He who has acquisitiveness, or love of approbation,
predominant, employs all his intellect and feelings to gratify acquis-
itiveness or love of approbation ; very large marvellousness lies in
every event of providence ; very large ideality looks every where
for perfection ; a mother with predominant philoprogenitiveness
may be concentrated in the love of her children; destructiveness
concentrates in carnivorous animals their external and internal
senses in order to catch their prey. 2d. If individual organs, whe11
ORGAN OF lNHABITIVENESS 177
single but predominant, concentrate all mental activity, it may be
still more easily done, when several large organs are combined to-
gether. Predominant benevolence, reverence, prudence, marvel-
lousness, and conscientiousness combined together, will find con-
centrated enjoyment in the contemplation of Christian principles,
whilst predominant destructiveness, secretiveness, combativeness
and firmness, concentrate all powers to do mischief. Those who
have certain feelings very strong, and individuality and eventuality
very small, will be absorbed by their active feelings in the midst
of large companies. Eventuality which knows the activity of the
other powers, and all kno\vledge expressed by verbs, is essential
to intellectual concentration. Those who have individuality, event-
uality, comparison and language in an eminent degree, will always
attract the attention of their hearers and readers, and their intellect-
ual continuity and concentration will increase, by causality, mirth-
fulness, courage, cautiousness, love of approbation, self-esteem
and firmness. There will be no systematic mind without large
comparison, whatever the developement of No. V. may be.
Since the eombination of powers gives continuity to their activ-
ity, their associatio~ seems to be of greater influence than a sjngle
primitive feeling. I admit association to exist as \Yell as concen-
tration, but I deny them to he fundamental pmvers, and consider
them as effects or modes of action in the same way as attention,
pleasure, and desire. 3d. The continuity of impressions, offeelings,
and ideas, will also depend on the temperament, or bodily consti-
tution of the organs. Certain constitutions receive the impressions
quickly, but lose them soon again, others receive them slmvly and
keep them long, others again are quick in perceptions and tenacious
in keeping them. This is particularly striking in reference to under-
standing and memory. But it is the same with the feelings. But
there is no necessity of a peculiar organ for the phenomenon. l\fr.
Combe compares his concentrativeness with firmness, the former
giving continuity of impressions, and the latter maintaining them in
their application. Maintaining, however, a power in its application
seems to me rather special than giving continuity to its activity,
23
178 PHRENOLOGY.
since the former operation is not replaced by another power ; for in..
stance, if I feel reverence, and individuality directs this feeling to the
Supreme Being, a peculiar feeling, firmness, maintains it in this ap-
plication, and reverence and firmness may continue to act, that is
revere God without the aid of any other faculty. Acquisitiveness
co11ects property, conscientiousness requires that it is done with
justice, and firmness maintains the possession ofjust property. Main-
tenance depends on a special feeling, acquisitiveness itself may con-
tinue to collect, but it is not the power that keeps and maintains.
The anatomical connexion, too, of the organ of firmnes5 \Yith
the other organs is of a peculiar appearance, and different from that
of No. V. with the other cerebral organs. The organ of firmness
is situated in the midst of the feelings, so to say, to give them
perseverance in this application. It is for this reason that firmness
is so often and so easily confounded with will.
Thus, in the first place, I do not think it necessary nor probable
that there is a special feeling, which gives continuity to the impres-
sions of the other faculties. In the next place, if there be such a
particular feeling, it cannot be the same as that of inhabitiveness.
With all possible deference to Mr. Combe's acuteness of mind,
and to his greater developement of No. V. I take the liberty of
stating, that I cannot agree with him when he says, p. 146, that
' at the ·same time there appears to be nothing in the notions of
Dr. Spurzheim, concerning inhabitiveness, inconsistent with the
more extensive vie\~s now taken of the functions of this faculty.'
I apprehend that Mr. Combe commits a similar error as Gall,
who confounded inhabitiveness with self-esteem, and considered
them as functions of the same organ. In my opinion if there be
an organ of concentrativeness it must be different from that of in-
habitiveness. Persons may be .concentrated or not, in the same
·way as proud or humble, in all situations, by water and by land, in
low and .in mountainous countries.
'I conceive,' says I\Ir. Combe, p. 149, 'that concentration of
mind is favorable to inhabitiveness, and that men and animals whose
faculties are more concentrated, have the greatest inclination to re-
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 179
rr.am m one place.' I also conceive that persons with concen-
trated powers max- remain in one place, if it be necessary to do so
in order to gratify the continued activity of their pO\vers, whilst
the local .5ituation has not the least influence on their mental deter-
mination, nay, whilst they may feel an aversion to the place itself,
but the stronger feelings prevail and keep them where they are.
Concentration and inhabitiveness then are neither the same, nor
proportionate to each other.
.Mr. Combe adds; 'animals which bro\vse on rocks, and which
place their nests in high and difficult situations, or by the banks ot
rapid rivers, would require for their well-being and cmnfort just such
a faculty as this, which should enable them to maintain their position
with ease, and at tile same time to provide for their food and safety.'
Food and safety are necessary to the presenTation of animals,
and the Creator has not abandoned them to chance, but I do not
find that animals have a determinate instinct of inl1abitiveness in
proportion as they are exposed to danger. The hare and mouse
in the fields, in order to escape their enemy, stand in need of con-
centrativeness, as well as the eagle that hovers in the air and poun-
ces upon his prey. Cautiousness and secretiveness are sui·er safe-
guards than the continuity of other impressions. In my opinion,
then, if there be an organ of concentrativeness, it is sui generis and
different from that of inhabitiveness.
Moreover Mr. Combe speaks, p. 147, of the disease of concen-
trativeness. ' This organ appears to suffer in those lunatics whose
attention is immovably fixed on some internal impression, and who
remain absorbed in silent and profound meditation, insensible alike
to the threats or caresses of those around them, and to the effects
of external objects. Mr. Combe is right in adding that ' this state
now attributed to diseased concentrativeness must be distinguished
from dementia approaching to idiocy, in which a fixed look and
silent calmness appear not from internal meditation, but from utter
insensibility to stimuli. In disease of concentrativeness the patient
possesses intense consciousness, and when cured is able to give an
account of all that passed in his mind during the malady ; in de-
180 PHRENOLOGY .
mentia the period of the disease forms a blank in existence, the
individual recollecting nothing.'
This argumentation is not clear to me. How can concentra~
tiveness be diseased, since internal impressions continue whilst
external impressions are without effect ! I have been attentive to
patients of that description, and observed in them the organs of
individuality and eventuality, particularly the latter, very small.'
Their inactivity is sufficient to explain the inadvertency of such
lunatics to external impressions. "\Vhenever these two organs are
small, there will be little attention paid to external objects and
events, however active the feelings may be.
From the preceding remarks it follows, that I do not think it
necessary to look for an organ of concentrativeness, but phrenolo-
gy, being founded on facts, and l\Ir. Combe appealing to facts, it
was and still is my duty to repeat his observations. This I have
done and continue to do in order to see whether a cerebral part in
the neighborhood of inhabitiveness coincides with the continuous-
ness of the various mental phenomena. It is necessary to proceed
according to our general method of pointing out the organs : viz. in
making observations on individuals in the positive and negative
manner ; on both sexes ; on nations, &c .
.1\Ir. Combe began with eomparing a large developement in the
region of No. V. v·:ith a peculiar tendency of mind. ' The first
idea,' says he, p. 136, 'that led me to the conclusion, that it is the
tendency to concentrate the mind within itself, and to direct its
powers in a combined effort to one object, was suggested by a
lady) who had remarked this qua1ity in individuals in whom the or-
gan was large. The Rev. David "\Velsh, and Dr. Hoppe of Co-
penhagen having been informed of these views unknown to each
other, communicated to me the inference that the faculty gives a
tendency to dwell in a place, or on feelings and ideas, for a length
of time, till all or the majority of the other faculties are satisfied in
regard to them.'
From what I have said above it follows, that l\Ir. Combe now
defines concentrativeness, the power of giving continuity to the
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 181
other faculties. As far as such differences of mental phenomena
exist, we agree perfectly, we only differ in this explanation. He
brings in a special power, which I consider as superfluous, I do not
doubt that he has observed the region of No. V. large in individ-
uals who dn,.elt on their ideas or feelings, I only say that the facts
which have come under my observation, do not allow me for the
present to adopt his conclusion. I know individuals of great men-
tal concentration, either in feelings or in intellect, or in both,
where the region of No. V. is large or small. I know individuals
who do not like to change their occupation, who are quite absorb-
ed with an object for a time, but whose heads are very depressed
at No. V. Mr. Deville in London, who has collected many facts
to this very purpose, also found that great concentration of mind,
does not always coincide with large No. Y.
I know individuals greatly disposed to sedentary life and to men-
tal contemplation, who have the part of the head above philopro-
genitiveness very small. I know two gentlemen, both constantly
occupied with external objects and occurrences, onl3 possesses that
portion of the head small, and the other lms it large, &c.
From individuals we extend our obsenrations oyer sexes. In
the former edition I said, 'This organ is also commonly larger in
women than in men, and I lea\·e every one to decide upon the sex
which supports the more close and vigorous attention.' Mr.
Combe replies, 'in Scotland, and I may almost say in England, al-
though my observations there have been less extensive, this is not
the case ; the developement being larger in men than in women.'
There are two ideas to be examined, 1st. 'Vhether women in
general have No. V. larger or smaller than men. 2nd. "\Vhether
they have more concentrativeness. 3d. It seems to me certain,
that the posterior lobes are more elongated back\vards in women,
in general, than in men. Any callipers may give this conviction.
No. V. is commonly less in women than philoprogenitiveness, ad-
hesiveness, and love of approbation. And this is probably the
cause, that .Mr. Combe considers No. V. larger in men than in
women, viz. in relation to the three other neighboring organs,
18.2 PHRENOLOGY.
which· are much smaller in men, and make in them No. V. :rppear
larger, but the distance from the meatus,. and auditorius externus to
-No. V. in itself, is the longest in women in general. Now in con-
sidering No. V. as the organ of the power, which gives continuity
to the impressions of the other faculties, its greater developement
should be expected in women, if the feelings, particularly the re-
ligious sentiments, love of approbation, adhesiveness and philopro-
genitiveness, are concerned. It is almost an axiom that \Yomen
are guided by feelings, whilst men are superior in intellectual con-
centration. Hence there is great concentrativeuess in the feelings
of women, and there is none in other respects. How can this be
combined with Mr. Combe's statement that women have the organ
smaller than men ?
The preceding facts seem to confirm my opinion, about inhabi-
tiveness. It is conceivable that women, who by nature are in-
trusted with maternal care, and domestic concerns, are particular-
ly endowed with inhabitiveness. They remain at home, whilst
their husbands-go out for food, in hunting, fishing, or laboring in
the fields. Yet inhabttiveness is still less than the neighboring
organs mentioned above, which 1·equire greater activity.
In order to point out organs \Ve ha,·e also recourse to nation-
al heads. The region of No. V. is more developed in :Malays,
New Zealanders~ Esquimaux, Negroes and all Celtic tribes, than
in the Teutonic and Tartar races, and the difference of the poste-
rior lobes in men and women, of the two latter sorts of races, is
greater than in both sexes of the former tribes. In the French, of
Celtic extracdon, No. V. is larger than in the Teutonic. Germans.
.Mr. Combe explains thereby, why 'the French, though their
intellectual reach is limited, attain the greatest perfection within
the sphere whieh their faculties are calculated to reach, and why
they write the best elementary \vorks on science of any people of
Europe, since they bring their powers to bear in a regulated man-
ner on the point under consideration, and presented clearly and
definitely, to the understanding. The Germans, on the other hand,
though {hey have more powerful reflecting faculties than the French,
ORGAN OF INHABITIVENESS. 183
and also greater perseverance, appear inferior to them in concen~
trativeness. They introduce more frequently extraneous ideas and
feelings, and do not arrive at so neat and complete a whole in their
compositions.' · '
This mental difference is perceptible in the study of natural sci-
ences, and indicated by the spirit of the languages of both nations.
It is true the French language is positive, easy and clear, when-
ever a sentence finishes, whilst the German speaks out various
ideas, and links them together at the end of the sentence. It
seems to me that the German language requires more concentrated
attention than the French, which rather invites to take isolated
views of a thing. Mr. Combe ascribes the spirit of systematizing
to concentrativeness; now this spirit is really too strong in the Ger-
mans, yet their No. V. is smaller than the same region in the head
of the Celtic French. The French bon ton of conversation is to
shift from topic to topic, and not to fatigue too much the attention
of others. They are particularly fond of natural history, anecdotes
and details. They leave nothing to the auditor or reader to guess.
But on what mental operations does this clearness of elocution
and style depend ? In my opinion \vhenever individuality and even-
tuality come into play. In that lme alone they write the best ele-
mentary works. Their philosophical language, on the other hand,
which expresses the intuitive operations of the mind, and the moral
nature of man, betrays very little concentrativeness, whether I take
this term in its old or new signification. There remains still an
excellent means of pointing out the organs to be considered. It
is one principle of the natural language, and according to which
the head is moved in a direction, which corresponds with the sit-
uation of an organ in action. ' Preachers and advocates,' says .Mr.
Combe, p. 148, 'in whom No. V. is large, while speaking with
animation, move the head, in the line of concentrativeness and
individuality, or straight backwards and forwards. vVhen com-
bativeness predominates over concentrativeness, in a pleader, he
draws his head backwards and to the side in the 1ine of comba-
tiveness, and advances· it in a corresponding direction.'
184 PHRENOLOGY.
I beg to remark, that dra,ving the head forwards, alone proves
that there is some activity going on in the forehead. Combative~
ness alone keeps the head backwards and sidewards, and every
single organ in the occipital region, draws and maintains the head
backwards, as long as the organ is active. 1\Ir. Combe will not
contest that those who prepare themselves to make a powerful and
combined reply, want the assistance of their intellect, or presence
of mind, or individuality, eventuality, comparison, causality, and
language ; an individual in that state will carry his head and his
look forward, l!e may even put a single finger, commonly the in-
dex, between the eyebrows, but at the same time his \'arious feel-
ings may be excited, particularly love of approbation, self-esteem,
firmness or combativeness. I was particularly attentive to the nat-
ural language of the improvisatory Sgricci in private society, and
whilst publicly engaged in composing a five act tragedy. It evi-
dently indicated great activity in the forehead. The common
sense will never be found in the region of No. V.
Finally, there is a longitudinal convolution of the brain, lying
above the corpus callosum, which Mr. Combe brings in as con-
firming his opinion about concentrativeness, since it extends from
the bottom of No. V. to the organs of the intellectual faculties.
But this convolution does not begin at the bottom of No. V., but
runs all along the middle lobe at its internal border, and communi-
cates with philoprogenitiveness, combativeness, destructiveness,
and alimentiveness ; and extends in the musical line, above the
corpus callosum, in connexion; not only \Vith No. V. but also with
love of approbation, se]f.:.esteem, firmness, reverence, and benevo-
lence. It continues into the organs of the intellectual faculties>
particularly into those of language, individuality, and eventuality.
This apparatus or structure, seems to be destined to establish a
communication bet,v"een the feelings and intellectual faculties, par-
ticularly to produce mental cognizance of the feelings (eventuali-
ty,) to conceive each as a unity, or fundamental power, (individ-
uality) and to design their acU\'ity by artificial signs (language.)
In concluding, I cannot help thinking that Mr. Combe lays too
ORGAN OF COMBATIVENESS. 185
much stress on No. V. This organ is in the region of the animal
propensities, and smaller than any other of the animal propensities.
Its sphere of activity in giving an instinct for a local habitation,
appears to me extensive enough. Yet as l\Ir. Combe and myself
have only truth in view, the fw1etion of No. V. stands open to
farther observation. If it give continuity to the impressions of the
other faculties, feelings as well as ideas, it must be confirmed by
multiplied observations, but then the name concentrativeness must
be changed.
VI. Organ of Combativeness.
The disposition to quarrel and fight is unfortunately but too
apparent in the world. Gall, to discover the cause, called togeth-
er boys from the streets, coach-drivers, servants, &c. and made
them fight. There were some who were quarrelsome and fond of
fighting, and others who were peaceable and timid. In those who
came willingly to blows, that part of the head which corresponds
to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone above the mas-
toid process, was prominent; (Pl. V. fig. 1. Y.) in those wbo de-
clined the combat the same place was flat or depressed. (Pl. IV.
fig. 2. V.) Similar configurations were found in the beads of brave
and valiant offieers, of quarrelsome students, of duellists, of those
whose greatest pleasure consisted in fighting and making them-
selves feared ; and of the ino:O:'Emsive and peacefully disposed.
This organ is generally more developed in men and males than in
women and females, though there are several examples on record
of women, even delicate ladies, who followed the war. More-
over, the propensity to fight is stronger in some nations than in oth-
ers, and is sometimes very active in lunatics. Hence it must be
considered as fundamental.
Gall at first named ' organ of courage ' the part m the situation
indicated. Considering, hmvever, that it is possible for a man to
be courageous in various ways, to have courage to do any thing of
which he thinks himself capable, to play on an instrument or sing
24
186 PHRENOLOGY.
before company, though he may have no propensity to fight, he
changed this name for that of quarrelsomeness, and then for that
of self-defence, which last he retains. These modified applica-
tions are easily explained by the combination of the propensity in
point with other feelings. I, however, do not think that this pro-
pensity is given merely for self-defence, many other propensities
requiring its assistance in the natural order of things.
The propensity to fight is active in different degrees, not only
in man, but also among the various species of animals ; some never
fight, others are fond of fighting. Even individuals of the same
kind differ in their manifestations of this disposition. One dog
incess:mtly looks for an opportunity to give battle, and never shrinks
from an opponent ; another passes peaceably along and flies on
the approach of an adversary.
The heads of cour&geous animals, between and behind the ears,
are wide, (Pl. VII. fig. I. and 3. V.) those of timid and shy
ones, on the contrary, are narrow at the same spot. (Pl. VII. fig.
2. and 4. V.) The different organization of game and dunghill
fo,vls is very h1arked in the situation indicated. Horse jockies,
and tbos~ who are fond of fighting cocks, have long been familiar
with the fact.
An animal may evince an unwillmgness to appro~ch a place or
object, which he associates with some former suffering. Imperfect
vision is another cause of shyness. A horse whose sight is defect-
ive, is apt to mistake one object for another, and may not be able
to make the distinction until he has approached very close to the
object, or he has put his nose to it ; either the object really is or
he fancies it is strange to him, he is afraid of it, and consequently
shuns it; many horses too grow shy as they grow old. More-
over, violence and punishment are not the most suita~le means to
impel an animal to do that which he is unwilling to do, whilst
lenient usage and coaxing is more likely to succeed. Yet there is
an innate feeling of couragP-, which must not be overlooked.
It is said that the propensity to fight results from bodily strength.
There are, however, several species '~hich though weak are fond of
ORGAN OF COMBATIVENESS. 187
fighting, while others, though large and strong, avoid it. We may
find striking examples of this among dogs. The fighting cock is also
smaller than the dunghill bird, and hares are stronger than rabbits,
yet less courageous. Some men, and even women, though very
weak and delicate, are nevertheless intrepid and courageous, while
tall and robust individuals are oftentimes cowardly and complying.
Physical courage and the capacity to meet and to repel attack
is necessary to animals as soon as they are attached to females, to
progeny, to dwellings pr to friends ; for, acccrding to the arrrmge-
ment of nature, it is necessary to fight in order to defend. Such
a propensity must therefore exist for purposes of defence ; but it
seems to me that it is, like all others, of general application, and
not limited to self~defence ; I, therefore, call the cerebral part in
which it inheres, the organ of the propensity to fight, or of com-
bativeness. Sometimes it acts with greater energy than is proper,
is delighted with combats, and then produces disputes, quarrel-
nomeness and attack, which are abuses. It is useful to all great
characters, to religious and civil reformers. Luther and Knox, I
am sure, possessed it in a great degree.
The ancient artists seem to have known the configuration indi-
cative of a high degree of this propensity; for they have gi\-en it
to the heads of their gladiators and wrestlers.
It may be asked, if the absence or inactivity of this organ pro-
duces fear ? Gall thinks it does, but it appears to me that the ab-
sence of no organ can originate a positive sentiment such as fear.
It is certainly conceivable·that the absence of an organ may pro-
duce modifications in the manner of thinking and feeling ; that the
absence of this, for instance, may render a character peacefully
disposed, but I think that a positive action can alone produce fear.
It seems to me that Gall generally erred when he spc~{e of nega-
tive qualities. If fear did result from the absence of courage, how
should it be possible to be at the same time courageous and fearful.
Yet this happens among animals and mankind. In my opinion the
sensations of fear and anxiety, are ascribable to the organ of cau-
tiousness. '
188 PHRENOLOGY.
VII. Organ of the Propensity to Conceal, (Secretiveness.)
Cunning is so active amongst mankind, that Gall soon conceived
the idea of looking for its organ in the brain, and observation very
soon led him to its seat. He complained, however, of not being
able to determine the sphere of its activity. He ascribes to the
same organ, cunning, prudence, the savoir faire, the capacity of
finding means necessary to insure secrecy, hypocrisy, lying, in...
trigue, dissimulation, duplicity and falsehood. In poets, the talent
of inventing, or conceiving interesting plots, for romances and dra~
matic pieces ; and finally, he attributes to it slyness in animals.
In all individuals remarkable for such actions, a considerable or
large developement of the organ, situated in the middle of the line
of the head, above the organ of destructiveness, is to be observed.
(Pl. VI. fig. 1. and 2. VII.)
VVhat then is the fundamental pmYer of this organ ; Gall first
observed it in cunning persons, particularly in one ·who ·was deeply
involved in debt, but \vho had the address to conceal his real situa-
tion from all his creditors, and cheated all his acquaintances, and
even his mother, of considerable sums of money. He died of
phthisis, and Gall got his head, which is very large in the midst of
the lateral regions. Cunning being an obvious ingredient, in many
appearances of social life, Gall considered it as fundamental, and
continued to do so. I grant that this power too often acts as cun-
ning, but I do not think that this name indicates the special pro-
pensity itself. This was to be determined without considering the
objects upon which, and the manner in \vbich, it acts ; and in con-
sidering the proceeding of sly animals and cunning men, and all
the functions depending on this power, I conceived it to be the
propensity to conceal, to be secret in thoughts, words, things or
projects.
This instinctive tendency seems to be active throughout the
animal kingdom, and concealment is necessary in many cases
where strength is wanting, either in behalf of defence or attack.
Sly animals, if pursued, , hide them:elves dexterously. The fo~c,
ORGAN OF SECRETIVENESS. 189
in approaching the poultry, is careful not to be observed; a cat
watching a mouse moves no limb ; a dog secretes his bone ; child-
ren play hide and seek ; prudent or cunning persons conceal their
intentions, and sometimes profess opinions opposite to those they
really entertain. Some are particularly delighted in knowing se-
crets, or in making a secret of things publicly known.
The uses and abuses of this faculty are various, but concealment
is the essence of all its manifestations. Every stratagem in war,
and every kind of deception, results from it.
There is no great politician, and no great commander, without
large secretiveness. Those in whom it is deficient, are not atten-
tive enough to circumstances, time and place, they commonly are
deficient in tact, and follow their instantaneous emotions.
Secrecy, hitherto, was a large play-ground for civil and religious
governments, but it is a pleasant feeling for philanthropists to think,
that the liberty of parliamentary transactions, and of the press, de-
tects the tortuous ways and selfish views of deceitful governors,
and that honesty will become the best policy in state concerns and
court affairs, as it is in social intercourse.
Persons in whom secretiveness predominates, judging others by
themselves, never see the conduct of others in a plain and simple
point of view, but conceive that every one endeavors to deceive
his neighbor. They try to attain all their purposes by indirect
means. Some of them are delighted in the most trifling mysteries,
in concealing all their transactions. No one shall know when they
go out or when they go in. Many insane are cunning in conceal-
ing their state of mind. One in Bedlam, at London, constantly
tries to conceal himself in his bed or in any corner of a room he
IS ill.
'How polite,' says Mr. Combe, (System of Phren. p. 146,)
' acquiescent and deferential are some persons in their manners to
all who are present, and how severe in their vituperations when the
same individuals are gone. This conduct results from secretiveness
addressing itself to the love of approbation in others, and endeavor-
ing to please them by the profession of feigned respect.' I add,
190 PHRENOLOGY.
that in such conduct the inactivity of conscientiousness is not to be
overlooked.
Mr. William Scott, of Edinburgh, thinks that secretiveness is
essential to actors and all great artists, and ' that it confers the
positive power of calling up at will the natural language of such
faculties as they wish to exhibit for the time :' 1\Ir. Combe objects
to this view. I am also of opinion that secretiveness is necessary
to artists, only as far as they wish to express or represent manifest-
ations of that kind. The same principle holds good with secre·
tiveness as with self-esteem, cautiousness, benevolence, or any
other feeling. The actor, painter, or sculptor, will succeed bet-
ter in the expressions of those feelings he possesses. The one for
instance will play Iago in an original and masterly way, without
the natural disposition of secretiveness, but an actor might succeed
in performing the part of a noble, candid, and benevolent characd
ter, without secretiveness. Da Viney could without secretiveness
compose the Lord's Supper, the character and expression of Judas
excepted.
Good humor in playing tricks, or in detecting concealed purd
poses, and every kind of disguise, depend 0.1 secretiveness, but
the ludicrousness of such actions, or the tendency to show humor,
results from the feeling of mirthfulness.
Secretiveness is frequently combined wi~h acquisitiveness, and
acts as cunning in thieves and other criminals. It prompts them
to think that they can conceal their deeds. It is large in beggars
who deceive pious and charitable persons by feigned complaints.
This propensity is very active in mankind, and its organ com·
monly large.
VIII. Organ of the Propensity to .!lequire, or of .!lcquisitit·eness.
It is a fact that many individuals have a particular propensity to
steal. History informs us that Victor Amadeus I. king of Sardi-
nia was, upon all occasions, in the habit of pilfering objects of little
value. I have the history of a well-bred individual, who, from in..
ORGAN OF ACQUISITIVENESS. 191
fancy, was given to thieving. He entered the military service,
hoping that the severity of its discipline might prevent him from
indulging his propensity. However, as he continued to steal, he
narrowly escaped hanging. Still struggling against and anxious to
overcome his inclination, he studied theology, and became a cap-
uchin. But the disposition followed him into the convent, and he
could not resist gratifying it by stealing such articles as candlesticks,
snuffers, scissors, drinking cups and glasses ; but he did not conceal
his stolen goods ; he said that he had taken them away, that the
owners might have the trouble of carrying them home again. There
was a person employed by the government of Austria, settled at
Presburgh, who filled two rooms with stolen articles, of which he
never dared to make any use. The wife of Gaubius, the famous
physician at Leyden, felt such a strong propensity to steal, that she
always endeavored to take something away from the shops in which
she made purchases. Her husband o"rdered a servant to follow
her, to prevent, or at least to compensate, her thefts. The coun-
tess 1\1***, at 'Vesel, and J*'*'*, at Frankfort, manifested a similar
thievish disposition. lVIadame de N**"*' had been educated with
great care, her understanding and talents entitled her to a distin-
guished place in society, but all would not secure her against an
overwhelming propensity to steal. Lavater speaks of a physician,
who never left the rooms of his patients without putting something
into his pocket, as keys, scissors, knives, spoons, thimbles, buck-
les, &c. but who sent them back again to their owners. Moritz,
in his Treatise on the Human Mind, details the history of a cer-
tain thief, whose propensity to steal was so energetic, that even
when dying he stretched out his hand with the intention of stealing
his confessor's snuff-box. Dr. Benard, physician to the king of
Bavaria, related to us the history of an Alsatian, who was rich and
not at all avaricious, but who had a great propensity to steal. He
had been educated with much care, and sometimes severely pun-
ished on account of his unhappy disposition ; his father made him
a soldier, and as he continued to rob in the army, he was hanged.
We have the history of a very learned man's son, who excelled
19.2 PHRENOLOGY.
his comrades at school, but who from his earliest infancy robbed
his parents and all those around him. E\'ery kind of correction
was useless ; the military service was tried, but though he several
times suffered severe punishment, nothing could restrain his pro-
pensity to steal. The chaplain of a regiment in Prussia, a man
of great intelligence and ability, could not help stealing from the
officers. The commander esteemed him much, but as soon as
the chaplain made his appearance, desks, presses, and cupboards
were shut up, for nothing on which he could lay his hands was
safe : he seemed almost to act without a motive, for he restored,
with pleasure, the things he had stolen. At Copenhagen Gall and
I saw an incorrigible thief in prison, who sometimes distributed
what he had filched among t11e poor. There was another who
had been shut up for the seventh time ; he observed that it seemed
impossible to alter his behavior ; and therefore begged earnestly to
be kept in prison, and provided with the means of earning a liveli-
hood. A young Calmuck, brought to Vienna by Count SLahren-
berg, Ambassador of Austria at the Court of St. Petersburgh,
became melancholic, and fell into a nostalgia, because his confes-
sor, who instructed him in religion and morality, forbade him to
steal. The confessor, a man of understanding, discovered the
eause of his disease, and gave him permission to steal, on condi-
tion that he would give back the articles he pilfered. The young
Calmuck profited by this license, and having stolen his confessor's
watch during the consecration of the mass, he, leaping with joy,
restored it after the service was over• .-.
Moreover, the propensity to steal is proved by the state of dis-
ease. "\Ve know several cases in ·which women felt it in a high
degree only during pregnancy ; and certain individuals manifest it
only when alienated. Hence it is obvious that this propensity
must be innate.
We might multiply examples of this kind almost to infinity ; they
prove that the inclination to steal is not always the effect of bad
education, of poverty, idleness, or of the want of religious and
moral sentiments. This truth is so generally felt that every one
ORGAN OF ACQUISIT IVENESS. 193
winks at a little theft committed by rich persons, who in other re:-
spects conduct themselves well. T hese thefts are said to be the
consequences of mental abstraction.
Gall in assembling boys, coach-drivers and persons of the com-
mon c1asses, and inquiring into their ch::lrncters, learned that some
had a peculiar. tendency to pilfer, and that others shmved a horror
of theft, and he wa'3 obliged to thi11k, as to the cause, of an orig-.
inal difference of mental constitution. Being physici:m to the
Deaf and Dumb Institution, he had it in his power to make cbser-
vations on the primitive condition of those children \Yho "·ere
received without any previous education. Some of th2m \Yere re-
markable for a decided propensity for stealing, "~hilst others did
not show the least inclination to it. ~orne of them we:·e easily re-
formed, but others were quite incorrigible. The severest punish-
ments were inflicted upon one \vithout any e.;rcct. On c·.;:amining
the heads of all these boys, Gall found the region anterior to the
organ of secretiveness uniformly develoi;ed in relation to the pro-
pensity to steal. During our trm·els, \Ve have examined the heads
of a very great number of thie,·es ; and it is unquestionable, that
those who have a great propensity to steal, have a particular part
of the brain greatly developed.
However, to consider stealing a natural propensity, is so con-
tradictory_ to common opinion, that the idea has excited much
opposition. On the other hand not eyery one who has this organ
large is a thief, though according to Christian morality many are
. thieves, who according to the civil laws enjoy distinction ii1 soci-
ety. Let us, however, examine each objection. It has been said
that stealing supposes the pre-e:x.is~ence of r•·operty' an~! that, as
property is the result of social convention, stealing cannot be O\V-
ing to any natural propensity ; consequently~ that it is absurd to
admit an organ of theft. In this objection there are two things to
be considered; and first, whether property itself be not grounded
upon some natural and particular instinct? In my work on the
philosophical principles, where I treat of the innateness of the fac-
ulties, I show that many actions which are considered as the efrect
25
194 PHRENOLOGY.
of society, or as factitious, result from particular innate faculties.
We have already seen that society itself is the consequence of a
particular propensity, with which all other faculties in their mani·
festations are necessarily combined. It is also easy to demon-
strate, that the sentiment of property is natural and not factitious ;
even animals possess it: birds have their mYn nests, quadrupeds
their burrows, and all defend their habitations against foreign ag·
gression. Tame animals have also their stalls in the stable, and
on entering every one takes its own. Nightingales, red·breasts,
&c. have their districts, and drive away all others of their kind,
even their young, when they are grown up. The constancy of
storks and S\Yallows to those nesting-places of which they have
once taken possession is well known. Bees and many insects fight
even till death in defence of their hives or nests against intruders.
Every one is aware that a dog defends his bone more courageously
in his master's than in a stranger's house. Sportsmen and game·
keepers observe, that of some species of animals a certain number
only inhabit the same district, and do not permit others of their
kind to approach or take possession of their territories. Each
herd. of chamois drives away all others from the tract it occupies.
l\Ian does the same. Suppose two persons living together in a
state of nature, as it is called ; if the one gather fruit, and the other
endeavor to eat it, will not the gatherer feel that the fruit is his pe-
cu1iar property? Examples might be greatly multiplied in illus-
tration ; those already cited prove clearly that the propensity to
appropriate or the feeling of property is natural to animals and
man, and anterior to and independent of legislation. In animals
this sentiment submits only to force, but man, susceptible of moral
feelings and obedient to justice, determines the conditions under
whiL·h objects become property. The sentiment, therefore, must
have preceded and produced laws of property. Laws of them·
selves cannot give birth to any feeling.
Now we may inquire, whether stealing is natural _
; and if so,
the effeet of a special propensity ? To answer in the affirmative
is both irrational and Jangerous : irrational because the Creator
ORGAN OF ACQUISITIVENESS. 195
could not bestow any faculty absolutely hurtful on man ; danger-
ous, because it would apologize for acts punished as crimes by the
law. T o this objection Gall used to answer : No one can deny
that theft occurs in the world ; and as it exists, it was not against
the will of the Creator ; the propensity to steal is also more or less
energetic, and there are very few who have never stolen any thing ;
finally, the organ is very considerable in inveterate thieves.
It is however impossible to think that God has created any fac-
ulty purely injurious to mankind,· which would be the conclusion,
were there an organ whose sole function \vas theft. On the other
hand, it is certain that there is no action without a faculty, and no
manifestation of a faculty without organization. Theft, therefore,
must depend upon a certain faculty, and tl!is must be manifested
by means of an organ ; but theft, being injurious, can only be an
abuse of that faculty. This point may be made clearer by analo-
gical reasoning. Gluttony and drunkenness are effects of a certain
power, but there is no faculty solely destined to these actions :
they are abuses of the special propensity to feed. Adultery and
incest are not peculiar faculties, they are abuses of the amative
propensity. Quarrelsomeness is likewise an abuse of the propen-
sity to fight. Moreover the organ under consideration cannot be
that of theft, because various persons who have it much developed
never steal; they cannot, however, be destitute of that which is
its fundamental function. To this Gall replies, that he cannot de-
termine whether any person he meets in society, with this organ
large, has stolen or not, that he knows only the disposition. This
answer does not, however, remove the force of the objection;
the faculty would still be the same, viz. the disposition to steal.
Hence let us examine into the natme of the propensity which pro-
duces theft.
Gall at last called the organ, that of property. But some thieves
steal without intending to retain the article, and both men and ani-
mals occasionally filch things entirely useless to them : magpies
and ravens, for instance, carry away money, spoons, stones, and
similar things, of which they can make no use : certain thieves a1so
196 PHRENOLOGY.
restore, or suffer to be restored, whatever they have taken a\vay.
Consequently, the faculty \vhich steals is not essentially that which
keeps possession ; it precede-s this, and is rather the propensity to
take possession. The name possession, therefore, does not char-
acterize the special faculty. Yet this faculty prompts to say ' mine.'
From all I have observed in .animals and m<:!n relative to the
functions of this faculty, it seems to me that its essence is a propen-
sity to acquire, without determining either the object or manner o[
acquiring, and a desire for hoarding up and collecting : it also pro-
duces selfishness, for those largely endowed with it never forget
themseh-es, and in every thing look for its usefulness ; the objects
they desire, however, and the means they take to acquire, whether
gaming, trade, industry, or theft, result from the influenee of all
the other faculties. In ancient times the statistical knowledge was
confined to that of battle3 and victories, to the number of captives
and to booty. Now-a-days industry replaces war. "\Yatt was a
ccnqueror of a different kind from the nncient heroes, and his dis-
coveries and inventions prodigiously favor acquisitiveness.
This faculty i3 essentially necessary to man and animals, as their
subsistence often depends on it. It is acquisitiYeness which prompts
to make provision for the future. As some carnivorous animals
kill more than is necessary for their maintenance, in the same way
animals and man not only gather what is immediately necessary,
but hoard up stores, sometimes take what belongs to others, and
collect articles of which they can make no use. The abuses of
the faculty have diiierent names according to circumstances, as
usury, plagiarism, fraud, theft, piracy, pillage. Its essence is not
the desire to steal, nor that of property, but the propensity to ac-
quire and to hoard.
Having thus determined the special faculty of this organ, and
explained the nature of its abuses, its admission can no longer be
said to be dangerous. The organ of the propensity is situated
beneath the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, (Pl. VIII.
fig. 2. VIII.) above secretiveness, and the name acquisitiveness
designate~ the sphere of its activity.
ORGAN OF CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 197
IX. Organ of Constructiveness.
Gall observed, that those who displayed a peculiar disposition to
mechanical arts had a face of a somewhat pardlel form, a>; large at
the temples as at the cheeks ; from thence he inferred that the dis-
position to mechanical arts was indicated when the brain at the
temples is prominent or large. l?arther observations on mechani-
cians, architects, sculptors, and painters, in whom tllis organ is
large, soon pointed out its precise situation. In animals the ability
to construct is not in proportion to their understanding. The
beaver, with less intellect, surpasses the dog in constructiveness.
The skulls of animals which build and make burrows, and of others
which do not, present a remarkable difference at the place of this
organ, as is seen in the heads of rabbits and of hares. The beaver,
marmot, hamster, &c. have it distinctly exptcsscd.
In a certain skull preserved at Rome, said to be that of Raphael,
and casts of which are seen in phrenological collections, the organ
of which I speak is exceedingly large. Gall possesses the skull
of a milliner of Vienna, who was very dexterous in changing the
forms of her wares, and in it also the organ in question is promi-
nent. This organ is larger in some nations than in others, larger
in the Italians and French than in the English, larger in the Es-
quimaux than in the New Hollanders.
Adversaries of Phrenology may ridicule a comparison between
Raphael, a milliner, and a field-mouse. Tpey may laugh at a
doctrine which, as they conclude, attributes to n similar organ the
sublime conceptions of Raphael, the petty productions of a mil-
liner, and the inartificial habitation of a field-mouse. But does not
the sloth creep by means of organs similar to those by which the
horse gallops, and the roe bounds with the swiftness of the wind ?
Does not the ass bray by means of organs similar to those by
which a Catalani sings ? The faculty I now consider did not alone
give rise to the sublime conceptions of Raphael ; it \Vas however
essential to their execution ; for it seems to me to produce every
thing that may be called construction. Ry its means birds build
198 PHRENOLOGY.
nests, rabbits make burrows, the beaver its hut, and man constructs,
from the hovel to the palaces of kings and· the temples of God.
It produces fortifications, ships, the engines of war, the implements
of manufactures, instruments of all kinds, furniture, clothes, and
toys; it is essential not only in every mechanical profession, but
in all that in any way require manual nicety, as in the arts of
drawing, el)graving, writing, carving, and sculpture. Locksmiths,
watchmakers, joiners, turners, and all those who use tools, are_di-
rected by it. The propensity to construct generally, or construct-
iveness, seems to me the special faculty of its organ; it, thete(ore,
constitutes only one part of the mechanical arts, giving manual
dexterity, and being destined to execute mechanical conceptions
of whatever nature. For the same reason it is necessary to those
who excel by their ability in musical performances, to clever ex-
perimenters in physical doctrines, to good operative surgeons;
some insane as well as some idiots possess it in a considerable de-
gree. Faden~ in his work on Cretinism remarks, that he has
known several Cretins who understood, without even having had a
master, the repairing of watches and the construction of some
pieces of mechanism. On the other hand, persons of great intel-
lectual endowments can never acquire manual dexterity. Too
large a developement of this organ, and its activity not being
guided by the higher sentiments, produces abuses. A man for in-
stance may ruin his family by building, or peril his life by con-
structing dies for coining false money, &c. .
GENUS II. Sentiments.
After mere propensities, follow another kind of fa~ulties, which
I call sentiments. Each of these joins to a propensity an emotion,
or feeling, of a specific kind. Several of these are common to
man and animals, others are proper to man I shall first consider
those which I entitle the ii.ferior sentiments.
ORGAN OF CAUTIOUSNESS. 19~
X. Organ of Ca1ttiousness.
We often meet with individuals who are naturally timid, fearful,
undecided in their opinions, and incapable of taking a resolution ;
while we see others who act without hesitation, and in3tantly obey
every internal impulse without timidity or fear. . .Many children
are very timorous, and easily affrighted by the presence of stran-
gers. '\Vomen and females in general are more timid and careful
than men and males. '\Vhole. nations also are remarkable for lvari-
ness and circumspection, whilst others are noted for their levity
and carelessness of disposition. The Scotch and Irish offer ex-
cellent instances of this difference of character. Insane persons
are sometimes exceedingly timid, and are terrified without any
assignable reason. Finally, whole species, and individuals of the
same species of animals differ in degrees of shyness and circum-
spection. Such a peculiar feeling then must be considered as fun-
damental. Now what is the special faculty? Gall says, that 'man
and animals were necessarily endowed with a faculty which should
induce them to look fon,·ard to coming events and avoid danger.
Without such a disposition, they would have been inGapable of
taking any measure for the future.' He calls the faculty that
prompts these actions foresight. Now I do not believe that it
foresees ; it is, in my opinion, blind and without reflection, though
it may excite the reflective faculties. It incites us to take pre-
cautions, it doubts, says but, and continually exclaims, take care.
'\Vhen too active, it causes such abuses as uncertainty, inquietude,
anxiety, irresolution, melancholy, and hypochondriasis.
The organ of this sentiment is established, and its place is in-
dicated on the upper, lateral and posterior part of the head, towards
the middle of the parietal bones. (Pl. V. fig. 2. XII.) Two per-
sons at Vienna, remarkable for their irresolute characters, were
one day in a public place; Ga11 stood behind them and observed
the shape of their heads ; he found them extremely prominent and
large at the place I have just indicated. This observation gave
200 PHRENOLOGY.
him the first idea of this organ, which was soon afterwards establish-
ed in men and animals. The form of the heads of circumspect
persons, and of those who are rash and incautious, is very different.
Shy and circumspect animals also, as the stag, roe, pole-cat, otter,
mole, and those which place sentinels, ns the chamois, crane,
starling, and bustard, have the cerebral parts just mentioned great-
ly developed. These animals certainly have not understanding
enough to induce us to think, that their habit of placing sentinels ,
is the result of reflection. we should rather say' that such an
act may be commanded by nature by means of some peculiar or··
ganic arrangement. .Moreover, animals which see in daylight, but
which do no~ dare to seek their food except during the night, hm~e
the upper and posterior lateral parts of their heads more developed
than those which go out during the day. The skull of the eagle
is very different, in the above-named situation, from that of the
horned owl, which sees l.uring both tbe day and night.
"\V'hen treating of the organ of combativeness, I mentioned that
anxiety and fear could not arise from a warit of courage, but must
be positive affections of some primitive feeling. They result, in
my opini2n, from a modified state of circumspection.
"\Ve may suppose, nevertheless, that any one destitute of com-
bativeness will be overcome by cautiousness sooner than another
who feels a great propensity to fight. Deficiency of cautiousness,
on the contrary, modifies the action of the other faculties in so far
as they are allowed to act according to .their own natures without
restraint from any feeling of timidity.
The diseased state of the organ of cautiousness is very common,
and predisposes to suicide. .Many considerations on this point
may be found in my work of Insanity.
At the end of the article on the organ of cautiousness, Gall
speaks, as he expresses himself, of negative qualities. He examines
and endeavors to refute my manner of explaining fear. Let us see
his arguments : he begins by defining what he calls negative quali-
ties, viz., qualities which are results not of the action, but of the
insufficient action or total inactivity of any fundamental power.
ORGAN OF CAUTIOUSNESS. 201
Amongst other things he says, ' if fear be not the result of the
want of courage, what are the faculties which may inspire aversion
and even horror for women, if not the want of physical love ; aver-
sion for music, if not the want of the musical talent ; erroneous
judgment, if not the defect of intellect; aversion for food, if not the
defect of appetite?' 'How can Mr. Spurzheim,' he asks, 'con-
ceive hatred, calumny, cruelty, or imbecility, since there is no fun-
damental power for either hatred, calumny, cruelty or imbecility?'
Gall, in this essay on negative qualities, takes no notice of my
ideas on the affections of the fundamental powers ; he then con-
founds ideas which are common, with ideas which are peculiar to
each of us ; moreover he does not separate the phenomena from
their explanation ; this, however, is necessary, since we often ad-
mit the same fact and differ in its explanation. To refute my
opinion on fear, he recurs to analogies, but evidently confounds
the result of certain faculties being inactive, with some of their
positive affections, with their imperfect and deranged actions, and
with sensations which arise from exhaustion of the powers. These
notions then must be separated, and the mutual influence of the spe-
cial faculties considered, in order to clear up the point at issue.
After having stated that there is no fundamental power for
hatred, calumny, cruelty or imbecility, Gall continues to say : ' I
myself easily conceive these phenomena. External objects pro-
cure us pleasure only in so far as there exist points of contact
between them and the cerebral organization. If this contact ceas
es to exist, the external objects are no longer in harmony with our
faculties ; disinclination and aversion succeed. Who has not felt
that a surfeit of certain enjoyments produces indifference, or even
real disgust for what had before been desired most ardently ? In
the same way, if our limbs are exhausted by fatigue, we feel aver-
sion for walking.'
I admit, with him and many others, the relations between the
internal faculties and external objects, and I take up these consid-
erations in the philosophical part. There I explain my opinion
on pleasure and pain, considering them as general affections : for
26
.202 PHRENOLOGY.
every faculty being active desires, and being satisfied or agreeably
affected, procures pleasure ; not being satisfied or disagreeably
affected, it gives pain. Thus each fundamental faculty can excite
pleasure or pain, and both in different degrees.
Gall merely states that there is no organ for hatred, calumny,
cruelty or imbecility, and does not indicate the cerebral organs on
which these phenomena depend. Before I explain my ideas upon
this particular, I shall examine our opinions on fear, as they have
occasioned this discussion.
I consider fear as an affection of the sense of circumspection.
Gall replies, that 'cowardice ( poltroneric) is always passive, but
fear sometimes negative and sometimes positive, and that the most
courageous person feels fear, if he finds himself exposed to a dan-
ger above his powers. If we say,' continues he, 'that a man or
an anima] is afraid, we do not always mean to say, that they are
affected with fear in the same way as one is affected with anger.
The expression often means, that a man or an animal is a poltroon
or coward. And in this case they are possessed with fear more
eas:ly than if they were courageous. Numerous armies,' says he,
at the end of the article, 'composed of men remarkable for their
courage, have had fits of fear. Did not the intrepid Roman sacri-
fice to FP-ar ?'
Let us suppose that the two expressions, to be a coward, and
to feel fear, are synonymous, still I neither see that we can there-
fore infer, that fear is negative, nor that the knowledge of danger
and the sensation of fear take place in the same faculty. I, how-
ever, conceive that the knowledge of any danger may affect the sense
of circumspection in a manner to which the name fear is appli-
ed, just as it may excite courage and make a person fight with fury.
Neither courage nor circumspection know the danger nor reflect on
it. Sometimes the most innocent and ham1less things inspire fear.
'If circumspection,' says Gall, ' "·ere the source of fear, care-
less beings ought ahntys to be free from this feeling ; and one
should be the more fearful, the more circumspect one is ; circum-
_,tances which "·e do not find confirmed by experience.'
ORGAN OF CAUTIOUSNESS. 203
Even the most careless of beings is not entirely destitute of cir-
cumspection ; and other faculties, such as adhesiveness, love of ap-
probation, self-love and reflection, may excite the little dose of
circumspection that exists in such a manner as to produce fear.
Mo~eover, any one endowed with courage, self-esteem, acquisi-
tiveness and firmness, even if his circumspection be considerable,
will feel less fear than another with smaller circumspection, and
deficient courage, self-love and firmness. The reader must also
bear in mind the meaning which I attach to the term affection, and
remember that affections do not depend only on the different de-
grees of activity of the faculties ; that the sense of touch, for in-
stance, though obtuse, praduces the sensation of itching ; and that,
in the same way, fear is an affectim: or quality of circumspection.
:Moreover, the intrepid Roman who sacrificed to Fear was not,
could not be, entirely deprived of circumspection ; and in person-
ifying Fear, the ancients brought sacrifices to its shrine, in order to
secure themselves from its dangerous influence, and to turn the
divinity against their enemies.
I said, that if fear resulted from the absence of courage, I could
not understand how the same person or animal might feel fear and
courage at the same time. Gall replied, by asking, why I here
neglect the principle upon which, on other or.;casions, I insist
strongly, viz. that the actions are seldom the result of a single or-
gan? This question, however, is inconceivable to me, since I
explain by means of the simultaneous action of circumspection and
courage, the possibility of feeling fear and courage at the same
time. The same principle readily explains several phenomena
which Gall merely mentions.
Let 11s still examine whether the analogies, quoted by Gall,
refute my opinion on the origin of fear. He compares fear with
fatigue, disgust, and other sensations, which result from the satis-
faction and exhaustion of certain faculties. 1Vill be then maintain
that fear is ever the result of courage when exhausted? He com-
pares it also with the inactivity of faculties, with imbecility, and
with the imperfect functions of the intellectual faculties or false
204 PHRENOLOGY.
judgments. None of these comparisons, except that 'vith im~
becility, is conformable to the definition given by Gall of nega·
tive qualities, among which he includes fear, hatred, calumny and
cruelty. Several persons are fond of reasoning, but their conclu-
sions are false; others are fond of singing, and of making melodies,
but cannot produce harmony. Erroneous reasoning, however, is
by no means an effect of the inactive state of the intellectual
faculties. Hatred does not seem to me the consequence of the
inactive or exhausted state of any faculty. He who has little
benevolP-nce and the other moral feelings inactive, whilst his self-
esteem, his desire to acquire, and feelings of an inferior order, act
with energy, will hate all who oppose his personal views. Even
he who has attachment, justice, and benevolence, and at the same
time self-esteem, may hate a person who forgets his duties to oth-
ers, and is guided by selfishness alone. Justice and attachment
when offended may increase or excite indignation and hatred ; but
·tllese affections always reside in feelings of an inferior order. It
is the same with calumny. No one will speak ill of others because
he is fatigued with praising them. But selfishness, self-love, and
the love of approbation, when offended and not guided by justice,
may feel pleasure in calumniating.
Finally, cruelty never results from the inactivity, or exhaustion,
or fatigue of benevolence. Benevolence, when active, ahvays
prevents cruelty; but when inactive, other feelings, destructiveness
for instance, encouraged by self-love, firmness and selfish motives
generally, may act in a cruel manner.
Thus, all Gall's statements in refutation of mine, and in support
of his own opinion in regard to the origin of fear, are rather for,
than against me. I, therefore, continue to think that fear is an
affection of the feeling of circumspection, and not a result of the
inactivity of courage, or of courage satisfied or exhausted.
In the fourth volume of the octavo edition, published in 1823,
Gall has once more taken up our discussion on fear. He replies
to my opinion, and to that of Dr. Demangeon. I shall here an-
swer him, only however in as far as my own is concerned.
ORGAN OF THE LOVE OF APPROBATION. 205
Gall first states, that I am wrong in supposing that the expres•
sions avoir pettr and etre poltron are synonymous. He however
had used them as synonymous,* and instead of reproaching him
with his incorrect French, I merely said, in supposing that these
two expressions \Vere synonymous,' I intended to discuss ideas
only, and not \vords, particularly as the French was a foreign
language to myself as to him. This short explanation may suffice
to rectify Gall's accusation.
Moreover, he retracts the analogies and his reasoning on them,
declares fear to be an affection of courage, and says that he em-
ployed analogy only to make himself clearer in his ideas on nega-
tive qualities. I allow this to be, but I still continue to oppose
him in admitting that fear is sometimes negative. To the notion
of this sort of fear my answer remains the same. I therefore only
examine whence positive fear arises. Gall considers it as an affec-
tion of the organ of courage, and not as the result of circumspec-
tion. He supports his opinion, by asserting that fear is not in
proportion to circumspection. 1Vhy has he not attended to my
answer to this argument, viz. that I do not consider fear as an affec-
tion of quantity, but of quality of circumspection ? According to his
manner of arguing, fear increases in proportion as courage dimin·
ishes, and is eYidently always a negative quality. Thus Gall has
elicited no new argument which obliges me to change my opinion,
and our discussion on fear remains exactly where it was before his
last publication.
XI. Organ of the Love of .!lpprobation.
Vanity is natural to mankind, and in comparison with its frequen-
cy, Gall thinks pride a scarcity. Children even when very young
are fond of apprf!fbation ; emulation stimulates the youth to exertion ;
*' Quand on dit,' says he, tom. iii. of the editions in folio and quarto,' qu'un
homme ou un animal a peur, on ne veut pas toujours dire par Ht que, dans ce
moment, il est affecte de la. peur, comme on est affecte de la. eolere ou de la
frayeur. On entend dire par cette expression que c'est un homme ou animal
peureux, poltron.'
206 PHRENOLOGY.
few adults are insensible to the voice of applause ; and multitudes,
governed by the feeling of ambition, sacrifice to it quiet, sleep,
health, and even life.
Observation proves that this sentiment is more powerfully felt by
women than by men ; the earliest infanc.y betrays the difference.
To many women a new gown is an object of admiration, and every
article of dress an object of display. Many of them are extremely
anxious to please and satisfy others.
Certain nations also are governed by it more than others. 1\Ion..
tesquieu considered it as the true pivot of the French government.
Its derangement is a frequent symptom of insanity. Finally, it
exists in many animals, as in the horse, dog, cat, &c. for they are
fond of being caressed and flattered.
Gall discovered the organ of this sentiment whilst engaged in
examining that of pride. Having met with an insane woman, who
thought herself queen of France, he was disappointed in his ex-
pectation of finding a large organ of pride. He, therefore, turned
his attention to the rest of the head, and saw that the parts on each
sicle of it were ,·ery prominent. He then reflected on the behavior
of the insane from pride and from vanity : the former, imperious,
arrogant, and fond of commanding ; the latter, polite, affable, and
courteous, comporting themseh7
es in a manner evidently indicating
a wish to please; and soon learnt to separate the action and indica·
tion. of each of these sentiments. Having afterwards examined the
heads of several individuals, known for their ambition, and found a
configuration similar to that of the insane woman, he began to speak
of an organ of ambition and of vanity. Is this its fundamental faculty?
' The sentiment of self-esteem, vanity, and ambition,' says Gall,*
'is fundamental.' He quotes and admits the opinion of Count
Segur, according to which there is no nation without vanity, which
is the cause of the mutual hatred of nations. Thus he evidently
confounds pride with vanity. So does Dr. Brown in his Philosophy.
I regard self-esteem as the basis of pride, a sentiment manifest-
ed by the organ last spoken of, while the faculty I now consider
"'T. iii. p. 326 and 228.
ORGAN OF THE LOVE OF APPROBATION. 207
looks for the approbation of others, whether deserved or not, wheth~
er in a good or in a bad cause. It makes us attentive to the opin-
ion entertained of us, and induces the question, what will the world
or the people say ? It is fond of approbation in general, without
attending to the manner of acquiring it, and may therefore be di-
rected to objects of the highest importance, as well as to such as
are of no moment, or even hurtful. Its sphere of activity is very
extensive ; for it is sensible to caresses and flattery, to compli-
ments, to applause and to glory ; it \Visbes to be distinguished and
honored, and men endowed with it make use of many and various
means to attract attention. They dress fashionably, and resort to
ostentation and showy things of all kinds ; they look for decorations,
titles and other worldly distinctions. Ambition is the distinguish-
ing epithet of its agency~ if the object aspired to be of great impor-
tance ; vanity, if claim be laid to distinction on the score of trifles.
Its activity extends through all ranks of society. The general who
leads back a victorious army is elated with the applause of his
countrymen, and the slave is delighted if the manner in which he
has performed his task be approved. Combined with the lower
feelings it may be pleased by the reputation of being the greatest
eater and drinker, the best fighter. Some would do every thing to
gain fame. It is one of the most powerful motives in society.
This fnndamental power though essential to society, by its too
great activity causes many abuses. It favors industry, but also in-
troduces lu.."'\:ury, it produces polite manners, but makes us slaves
of fashion and is the mortal enemy of personal liberty. Nations
who possess it in an eminent degree are scarcely fit for a free gov-
ernment. The number of those who wish to distinguish themselves
only by talent and virtue is small.
The organ of the love of approbation is established. Being
much developed, it generally elongates the posterior, upper, and
lateral part of the head. (Pl. V. fig. I. and 2. XI.) Sometimes,
however, it is more spread out on either side, and then the head is
widened rather than elongated. I propose the name, lov~ of appro..
bation, for thi~ special faculty.
208 PHRENOLOGY.
XII. Organ of Self-esteem.
Self-esteem is one of the faculties generally attributed to exter-
nal circumstances ; but its activity is so very great and universal,
that I am astonished it has not been at all times considered as a
special feeling. The fall of man is ascribed to pride. Haughti-
ness is observed in individuals who have no pretensions to influence
over others, either by birth, fortune, or personal talents ; whilst
many who enjoy these advantages are remarkable for the modesty
and humility of their deportment. Poor, ignorant and pitiful crea-
tures have sometimes the greatest opinion of their own personal
importance ; and children may frequently be found who are fond
of showing superiority. In every community we find leaders and
followers ; no profession has ever been free from the influence of
pride ; even teachers of humility have too often shown it in all
their actions. Proud persons constantly use the pronoun of the
first person, viz. I say, I think, I do ; I, and always I. "\Vhole
nations in whom self-esteem is active think themselves superior to
all the world besides ; they know every, thing best, and their sanc-
tion seems to them of the utmost importance.
Self-esteem is more common in men than in women ; boys fre-
quently place their judgment above that of others, while girls always
look for the approbation of those who surround them. It is strong-
er in some nations than in others. l\loreover this sentiment is of-
ten deranged, and many lunatics think themselves ministers, kings,
and emperors, or even the Supreme Being ; and there are a great-
er number of men than of women alienated by pride.
A feeling similar to the pride of man seems to exist m certain
animals, as in the turkey-cock, peacock, and horse.
Gall thinks that the organ of self-esteem is the same as that of
the faculty which makes animals dwell upon mountains and elevat-
ed places; hence he calls it the organ of haughtiness; meaning to
designate at once physical and moral height. In speaking of the
organ of inhabitiveness, I have given the reasons which induce me
ORGAN OF SELF-ESTEEM. 209
to differ from him, and have in a former page said, that I conceive
one faculty necessary to produce the propensity to determinate in-
habitation, and another to cause ·the sentiment of which I now treat.
Gall's attention was first drawn to the sentiment of pride, from
having examined the head of a beggar, the middle of the upper and
back part of which presented an elevation he had not observed be-
fore. Having asked the man the cause of his mendicity, he was
astonished to hear him accuse his pride as the origin of his miser-
able condition. He had conceived such a high notion of his own
importance as to believe himself infinitely above learning a trade
or profession. Thus incapable of earning a livelihood, begging 'vas
his only resource to save himself from starvation.
We have such a number of observations confirmatory of this or-
gan, in individuals in both sexes, in whole nations, and in disease,
that we consider it as established.
1Vhat then is its fundamental power? The lvord pride, although
the sentiment commonly manifests itself in a 'vay that would \var-
rant the name, is still too harsh, and would indicate a degree of
activity which produces many disorders. Christian morality warns
us against pride and presumptuous conduct, and inculcates humility
and meekness. It would, therefore, be improper to adopt the
characteristic sign of an abuse as the title of a primiti,·e power.
This sentiment seems to give us a great opinion of ourselves, con-
stituting self-Jove or self-esteem. Too active, it produces pride,
haughtiness, disdain, contempt, presumption, arrogance, and inso
lence. A moderate degree of it gives dignity and nobleness to the
character, and secures against low-mindedness ; but I do not believe
Gall is right when he says,* modesty and lowness of mind result
from insufficient developement of this organ. I think a person may
be proud and basely-minded at the same time. Real lowness of
mind supposes a deficiency of the sentiments of justice and ideality,
for a person who is proud, just, and inclined to improvement, will
never be guilty of a mean action. Modesty also does not result
* Edition in 4to. t. iii. p. 32'2.
27
210 PHRENOLOGY.
solely from the absence of pride ; this condition only permits the
moral sentiments and cautiousness to act in a certain way, to which
the title ' modesty ' is applied. Self-esteem contributes to person-
al and national independency, though it is not sufficient to secure
liberty. It is an essential ingredient of the love of dominion.
These ideas, however, can only be clear to those who are acquaint-
ed with the fundamental powers of the mind, and the effects of
their mutual influence.
On the other hand, nobleness of character is not the result of
self-esteem alone. Noble or notable primitively meant the being-
remarkable in any way. I heartily desire to see this name given
only to those who excel by their superior qualities. The signifi-
cation, however, of that which is superior, both as regards qualities
and actions, varies exceedingly. Among warlike nations personal
courage is one of the first and most v~luable qualities, and con-
querors and those who contend for absolute power, accord to their
soldiers and companions in arms all the principal distinctions.
They are praised and called nobles, they form a congregation, and
their nobleness consists in qualities which favor the personal views
of their leader.
History shows ns that this spirit prevailed more or less among
ancient nations, and that it has always had a principal influence
during ages of barbarism. Among the Romans many occupations,
although indispensable to life, were considered as ignoble and un-
becoming in a soldier. Many lazy and idle persons think them-
selves above others, who are obliged to earn their daily breadr
1Varriors have generally understood better than the members of
any other profession how to secure the first rank in society, they
have always been the most powerful, and have used their strength
to further their own advantage. The priesthood also succeeded
at an early period in acquiring distinction and nobility, as dispen-
sators of eternal happiness, and as administrators of the divine
legislation. 'Veahh, though it gives great influence in society,
has never been considered as sufficient of itself to confer nobility
on its possessor, bu~ the rich have been permitted to purchase titles
·oRGAN OF SELF-ESTEEM. 211
of nobility. Self-esteem \vith acquisitiveness, whilst benevolence
.and justice remain inacti·•e, contr nd for privileges.
Idea~ upon nobleness having graduaJy becume sounder . nJ
sounder, we can now say, that the nat:.~re of all men is essentially
lhe same; that each individual differs from his fello-.v only in the
degree of talents and feelings he possesses, that it is a duty incum-
bent ')n every one to contribute to the general welfare and common
happiness, and that talent and virtue constitute the essence of nobil-
ity. Individuals are in reality noble in proportion as they possess
the superior faculties of mind. Now since distinctions should be
conferred on the score of superior qualities alone, it follows that
they are to be personal, and not attached as hereditary rights to
certain families. If it be tmjust to punish children for the crimes
of their parents, I see no reason why unworthy children should be
re\varded for the merits of their ancestors. Let every one reap
the fruits of his own labor, and enjoy as far as he is deserving. To
confer any hereditary privilege is to do an injustice to posterity.
I admit, it is true, mental dispositions, under certain conditions, to be
,hereditary ; as these conditions, liOWe\rer, have hitherto been neg-
lected, and are not likely to be observed for some time to come,
I cannot help saying, that it is improper to permit degenerate child-
ren to enjoy privileges, which parents received as rewards of talent
·or virtue.
In the actual state of society, I do not find it reasonable to con-
fer similar marks of distinction upon soldiers, clergymen, artists,
legislators, and every modification of characters and talents, since
the services rendered by each to mankind, are not equal. The
merits of a moral teacher, and of a soldier who aids a conqueror
in his vie,vs, are in my opinion very different.
Jesus constantly admonished his disciples against greediness of
superiority; greediness with them was to consist in humility.
212 PHRENOLOGY.
Superior Sentintents.
I have hitherto gone over the affective faculties which are com·
mon to man and animals ; and even here, in this purely animal
portion of his nature, man is the most perfect of all terrestrial
beings. He alone possesses all the faculties which are but spar-
ingly distributed through different tribes of animals. Besides every
faculty is susceptible of many more modifications and of greater
energy in man than in animals. So far however man is merely an
animal. His pride, vanity, selfishness, and other inferior feelings,
we have seen, are the causes of innumerable disorders ; the addi-
tion of certain superior faculties was therefore necessary to regulate
the actions of the inferior feelings, and to establish his moral char-
acter. Now here it is important to recollect, that no superior
feeling any more than those of an inferior nature results from intel-
lect. It is also important to specify each kind of these feelings,
and to inquire how far they operate amongst animals. One of
them cannot be entirely denied to brutes ; for this reason I shall
begin with it.
XIII. Organ of Benevolence.
Philosophers frequently ask, is man by nature good or bad ?
.Both opinions find supporters, and both have opponents. The an-
swer is not so very difficult as has been imagined. :Men are not
born alike in this respect. Many children are good-hearted, be-
nevolent, and sensible to the suffe1ings of others. Common peo-
ple, without education, often display a great deal of benevolence
and sympathy. Some individuals find their chief source of delight
in doing acts of charity. St. Vincent de Paul offered to bear the
chains of a criminal, in order to restore him to his wife and child·
ren, who suffered the extreme of misery and distress. Individuals
who devote their lives to the relief and consolation of the wretch-
ed, are to be found in great numbers.
On the other hand, we see children complete egotists, and en-
ORGAN OF BENEVOLENCE. 213
tirely thoughtless of others ; many arrived at mature age think of
themselves alone, and benevolence towards their fellows is knmvn
to them merely by the name. Some tribes, and even whole na-
tions, are mild and peaceable, whilst others are warlike and cruel.
The Hindoos and Caribs are remarkable and well known instances
of the extremes of goodness and cruelty.
Derangement of benevolence is occasionally a symptom in in-
sanity. It is sometimes too active, and in other cases not active
enough.
Benevolence, as an innate feeling, may also be proved by a
reference to animals, and by comparing the natural dispositions
either of various kinds, or of different individuals of the same
species. Several kinds are naturally meek, as the roe and sheep ;
others are wild and mischievous, as the chamois and tiger. Some
dogs, horses, cows, monkeys, &c. are meek and familiar, while
others are fierce and bad tempered.
There are examples on record where animals have shown high
degrees of benevolence to others and even to man. A respecta-
ble family of Paris told me that they had a horse and a cow living
together in the same stable ; that the horse several times got untied,
went to the corner where the sack of oats stood and drew it in his
teeth near the cow, probably to make her partake of the good
cheer. :Many dogs also exhibit the same feeling. Dupont de
Nemours saw a swallow caught by one foot in the noose of a pack-
thread attached to the roof of the French Institute at Paris ; the
prisoner screamed, and attracted all the swallows of the neighbor-
hood ; after a long and tumultuous consultation, a great number
formed a line, one after another darted at the packthread with their
bills, and in half an hour delivered the captive.
From the preceding observations it results, that benevolence is
an innate and particular faculty, and by no means the effect of ex-
ternal circumstances, as some have supposed, still less of the de-
ficiency of courage ; since it is certain that many quarrelsome
persons are good-hearted, and timid and cowardly individuals often
mischievous and cruel.
214 PHRENOLOGY.
It was some time before Gall thought of looking for goodness
of heart in the brain. The servant of a certain family at Vienna,
with which the doctor was intimate, having been frequently praised
for benevolent and kind dispositions, he at last moulded the man's
head in plaster. Observing a considerable protuberance on the
superior and middle part of the frontal bone, just where the hair
begins to grow, he set down the occurrence as worthy of farther
attention, and having subsequently e:xaminell the heads of a great
number of benevolent and kind people, the function of the cere~
bral part in the above situation was speedily confirmed.
It is interesting to remark, that among the antiques, the head of
Seneca, in the seat of the organ of benevolence, is much higher
than that of Nero. The same striking difference may be seen by
comparing good portraits of l\Ialsherbe and Danton.
Good-natured animals have also the part corresponding to the
organ of benevolence in man elevated and prominent. (Pl. VIII.
fig. I and 3, XIII.) Such as are vicious and bad tempered haYe,
on the contrary, the same place flat or hollow. (Pl. VII. fig. 2
and 4, Xlll.)
Gall considers benevolence, justice, the sense of morality and
of conscience, as belonging to one and the same fundamental pow-
er. He first makes some general reflections, and then comparing
the moral sense with benevolence, thinks himself authorized to
conclude that benevolence is only a higher degree of its activity.
He also considers conscience as a modification of benevolence.
He ~hows that that feeling does not depend on social intercourse ;
and allows it necessary to determine by laws what shall be just
and what shall be unjust, that is, to establish an arbitrary con-
science. ' l\Ian,' says he, ' nevertheless, being destined to live in
society, requires the sense of morality; without it no association,
no family, no nation, can be united.' * Hnme in his inquiry con-
cerning the principles of morals, also admits an instinctive princi-
ple of humanity and disinterested benevolence implanted by nature
m the human heart, which takes delight in whatever tends to the
10
T. iv. of the editions in folio and quarto.
ORGAN OF BENEVOLENCE. 215
happiness of mankind, which renders virtue an object of regard
on account of its utility, and vice an object of abhorrence on ac-
count of its pernicious tendency.
According to this hypothesis, all social animals, as the sheep>
duck, cow, horse, &c. ought to possess the moral sense. This,
however, is not the case. Yet there is no proportion between the
moral sense and benevolence. :Many, who have the organ of
benevolence much developed, possess very little of the feeling of
justice. I agree with Gall, and many other philosophers, upon
the innateness of the moral sense ; but I do not think that the
sentiment of justice is the same as that o( benevolence. I sup-
port my opinion by the arguments, which prove the plurality of
the faculties ; I also acknowledge the necessity of positive laws,
but cannot assent to the explanation given by Gall of conscien~e;
for we see many animals endowed with benevolence which never
demonstrate the feeling of repentance.
Such are the considerations which induce me to admit a sense
of morality, independent of reason and different from benevolence.
This latter is itself a fundamental power, producing mildness and
goodness, and a long catalogue of modified actions variously styled;
benignity, clemency, mercifulness, compassion, kindness, human-
ity, cordiality, urbanity, hospitality, philanthropy, the love of our
neighbor, and charity.
Cruelty, being a positive sensation, cannot be the consequence
of the want of benevolence, as Gall supposes. Goodness of
heart cannot exist in a high degree in those cruel beings who de-
light in tormenting others, and in cold-blooded criminals : but ac-
tive cruelty belongs to the organ of destructiveness, unrestrained
by the superior powers. Another opinion of Gall, of whJCh I can-
not approve is, that benevolence may degenerate into bad temper,
and into the propensity to rejoice in the evil that happens to others ;
in the same way as the sense of taste may degenerate into disgust
at food, physical love into aversion to the other sex, and the sense
of-melody to aversion to music. The inactivity of benevolence,
or its exhausted state, may produce indifference to its functions,
216 PHRENOLOGY.
and make us avoid any opportunity of doing beneficent actions ;
but active wickedness, and pleasure in the pains of others, like
cruelty, depend on inferior feelings, unaccompanied by superior
sentiments.
Benevolence though admirable in its nature must be combined
with the sentiments proper to man and with intellect, otherwise
it produces abuses. Indulged for itself it may encourage idleness,
careless conduct and profligacy, and produce gi·eat disorders in
society and the worst consequences.
Sentiments proper to JJfan.
Gall formerly considered morality and religion as one power,
but later he assigned benevolence and morality to one organ, and
the knowledge of God and religion to another. The points to be
examined here are : 1st. 'Vhether man is a moral and religious
being by nature ; 2nd. whether morality and religion may be sep-
arated from each other as to their essence; 3d. \vhether morality
and religion are single po\vers, or whether they depend each on
several fundamental feelings ; and 4th. whether the manifestations
of the moral and religious feelings depend on the instrumentality of
the brain.
Let us first examine whether mankind is morally religious by
nature. Some churchmen would persuade the credulous, that
preaching and religious instruction alone produce sentiments of
religion and morality. The ancient philosophers, on the contrary,
believed and taught that man was religious by nature. Plutarch
observed that there was neither town nor village in the world with-
out a god. Aristotle, Plato, Cicero, Seneca, and many others
have made the same remark, and the fathers of the Christian church
themselves have commented on this truth, in order to prove that
the belief in a God was innate.
The innateness of religion is not only proved by its universality
among mankind, but also by the sameness of the ideas which pre-
vail on all essential points of belief. It is with religion as with the
ORGAN OF BENEVOLENCE. 217
principles of all. the fundamental powers; they are the same at all
times and under every variety of circumstance. The laws of mu-
sic and of painting are universally and invariably the same, and in
every religion there is something venerated, whether it be a log, a
stone, or a star; the jealous and vindictive God of the Jews, or
the meek and benevolent Deity of the Christians.
To this it is objected, that the Supreme Being has revealed his
will from time to time, and that religious ideas have been preserv-
ed by tradition. But religion existed before the time of the Jews,
and even since they appeared as a distinct people, their re,·elation
has been limited to themselves, and other nations have not ceased
to have creeds entirely different. There are many nations who
never received the revelation either of the Jews or the Christians,
and who still manifest religious sentiments and have peculiar forms
of worship. It must even be granted that as man was destined to
have a revelation, he \vas also necessarily made capable of receiv-
ing it. Who would attempt to make any animal, inferior to man,
acquainted with revelation ? It is a general la\v that neither man
nor animals can be instructed unless endowed \Vith the individual
faculty which appreciates the peculiar sort of knowledge conveyed.
Dogs do not learn religion any more than music. Revelation,
then, can only have regulated the religious sentiments which exist-
ed previously to its annunciation, and I think \vith Bishop Butler,*
that Christianity is rt 1·epublical'ion of natural religion in its gen-
uine simplicity. ·
Phrenology does not examine the superiority of any religious
creed, or in what the true religion consists ; it does not decide
how long mankind may still be abused by religious errors, or
whether it is right or wrong to make it a trade. It merely admits
innate dispositions to take up religious considerations. It teaches
only that sentiments of religion are inherent in the nature of man,
that they are part of the plan of creation, and that the human race
will never exist without them.
The next point to be considered is, whether morality and reli-
* Analogy of Religion, p. 180.
2S
218 PHRENOLOGY.
gion result from the same fundamental power. It seems to me of
the highest importance to specify the difference between religion
and morality. I call religious each power which brings man in re-
lation to supernatural beings, particularly to God : and moral,
those on which the actions of man, concerning the beings around
him, depend. Christianity is at once religious and moral ; reli-
giozls in as far as it teaches the existence of God and his revealed
will and doctrine ; moral in as far as it commands the works of
charity and justice. There are persons who fancy themselves
very pious and religious when they say that they believe in reve-
1ation and in the doctrines of faith ; when they go to church regu-
larly, sing psalms, ami follow up all the rites and ceremonies pre-
scribed ; though at the same time they are very selfish, and cheat
their neighbor~ whenever they can. Nay there are some who
hope for eternal salvation tlu·ough belief in the doctrines alone,
without doing any good works, and in leaving this part of religion
to the care of their Heavenly Father himself. Now, in this sense,
an atheist may be moral, and a believer in divine revelation im-
moral. There is certainly a difference between the belief in reve-
lation and that in the revealed precepts intended to produce works
of charity and righteousness.
Sterne, T. Shandy, val. i. c. 140, says, 'that there is nothing
more common than to see a man who has no sense at all of reli-
gion, and indeed has so much honesty as to pretend to none, who
would take it as the bitterest affront, should you but hint at a sus-
picion on his moral character, or imagine he was not conscien-
tiously just and scrupulous to the uttermost mite.' Sterne, how-
ever, thought that we have no dependence upon morality without
religion, but adds, 'that, on the other hand too, there is nothing
better to be expected from religion without morality,' and he al-
lows that ' it is no prodigy to see a man 'vhose real moral charac-
ter stands very low, who yet entertains the highest notions of him-
self in the light of a religious man.'
Our moral ar1d religious natures are joined together, but they
1re not the result of, or their strength proportionate to each other.
ORGAN OF REVERENCE. 219
in Phrenology they are examined separately as to their existence
and nature.
Farther, there are several moral and several religious feelings,
and all their manifestations depend on cerebral organs. .Many re-
ligious persons find it difficult to admit the latter point. Yet its
certainty is proved by incontestable facts, and phrenologists instead
of apprehending this truth, consider it as the best means of putting
an end to all discussion as to the necessity of religion. Indeed,
if religious manifestations depend on the brain, the necessity of
religion is established, and the certainty that it can never be neg-
lected as one of the natural institutions of society, proclaimed.
This innateness does not exclude the idea of revelation, and phre-
nologists rely on the principle, that the Crea:or of the \Vorld and
the revealer of true religion is the same God, who could not be in
contradiction with himself at difierent periods, nor give any com-
mands in opposition to the primitive laws of nature ; they rather
think that he prepared the brain in relation to his revealed will.
The first moral quality is benevolence, styled in Christianity the
love of our neighbor. It has been considered in the preceding
pages. The following is also moral on many oceasions, though its
influence is still greater on religious manifestations.
XIV. Organ of Reverence.
Gall, viewing the actions of man, and considering the vast vari-
ety of characters in the world, observed a great difference upon
the point of religion. Some are eminently devout, and pray with
great fervor ; others pay very little attention to acts and forms of
religion. In examining the head, in relation to this difference
among individuals, he found that the very pious were frequently
bald ; it was evident, however, that baldness could not cause de-
votion ; for every bald man is not pious, and women, though they
do not grow bald, are in general devout. He then saw that the
heads of pious people were very elevated. (Pl. VIII. fig. 1. XIV.)
Lavater had already made the same observation.
220 PHRENOLOGY.
Priests who have chosen the ecclesiastical state from natural incli·
nation, and those who have entered it influenced by circumstan-
ces or peculiar motives, as well as religious and irreligious persons,
present very different configurations of the upper part of the head.
The best artists would seem to have felt the influence of an ele-
vated head, for they have always given this form to their pictures
of saints, of holy personages, and particularly of Jesus. \Vc can-
not flatter ourselves with having the true portrait of Jesus, but it
would he interesting to inquire whether painters have composed
such representations as we possess, guided by an internal impulse,
or from having observed devout and benevolent men; in the same
way as the ancient artists sculptured Jupiter with the forehead of a
mighty genius.
Observation, then, shows that persons naturally devout have
very elevated heads, and Gall assigns the feeling to the cerebral part
immediately behind the organ of benevolence ; this he formerly
called the organ of theosophy. He adopted that name from Lava-
ter, who speaks of a configuration of theosophy; but it is certainly
incorrect, since we cannot flatter ourselves that we know God ;
we can only form notions of the Deity according to our own na-
ture ; we anthroponwrphise and attribute to him all the supe-
rior faculties of man in their highest state of perfection ; but who
would venture to say, that the Supreme Being does not possess
many other faculties of which we have not the slightest notion ?
\'Ve can speak only of a Supreme Being without determining the
whole of his nature. To understand his nature we ought to be his
equals. History also sho\vs that the sentiment of devotion has
neither revealed the nature of God, nor the number of divinities.
The ancients adored many gods and goddesses ; and since the unity
of God was believed, he has been represented as endowed with
very different qualities.
Gall finally called the organ of that sentiment manifested in de-
votion, the organ of God and religion. He thought that it proves
the existence of God, and said, ' as every other faculty of man and
animals has an object which it may accomplish, it is not possible
ORGAN OF REVERENCE. 221
that while there is an organ of religion, God should not exist;
hence, God exists.'
This faculty, however, is a sentiment ; 1t 1s blind, and does not
reveal the existence of any object. Farther, though devout per-
sons have elevated heads, yet not every one who possesses the
cerebral part in question large is devout and religious. In all the
busts and portraits of Voltaire it is represented as much developed ;
and certainly he was not religious. I have also found the organ
v~ry considerable in an individual, who assured me that he did not
.believe in the existence of God. Man, in my opinion, arrived at
the belief in a Supreme Being by means of his reflective faculties,
since that is an effect without cause. Gall first observed this or-
gan in individuals in the act of adoring God, and saints in the ex-
ercise of devotion. My observations induce me to consider its
special faculty as the sentiment of reverence in general, without
determining either the object to be revered, or the manner of rev-
erence to be bestowed. By its agency man adores God, venerates
saints, and respects persons and things. 1Vhat indeed can be
more natural than to venerate in any way the Being who is con-
sidered as the Cause of all things ? I have already appealed to
the history of the ancients, who admitted a greater or less num-
ber of gods, and venerated them in various ways. Without going
so far back, we may take at the present time nations and individ-
uals, who have all different ideas of God, according to their creeds
and intellectual faculties, in proof of my position that this faculty
does not determine the object to be venerated, nor the manner of
venerating. Its application to religion is very noble, but it finds
also many other objects in society. It produces deference and re-
spect towards parents, tutors, and superiors in general. I therefore
prefer the name of reverence to that of veneration, since the latter
disposes to think of religious veneration and adoration.
The sentiment of reverence, though essential to religion, does
not include the whole of the ideas comprised in that name ; it only
occasions the part called worshipping. Its determinate actions
depend on its combinations with other faculties, and on the direction
.222 PHRENOLOGY.
it has received from education. By far the greater number of pe:.-..
sons do what they are taught to believe agreeable to God. One
sings psalms, another repeats ten or twenty or more times the
same form of prayer ; one eats vegetables, another burns candles,
&c. and all this to the glory of God.
The functions of this sentiment are at one time moral and at
another religious; combined with benevolence and justice, it re-
spects truth and contributes to the happiness of others ; separated
from these feelings, however, and united with selfishneso, self-
esteem, destructiveness, and the religious sentiments which I shall
examine hereafter, it may do great harm to humanity, though its
tendency be eminently religious. Let us respect truth, talent, and
virtue, but not falsehood, stupidity, or immorality; true merit, but
not mere appearance and external show, liberty but not oppression.
Let us adore the God of true Christianity in spirit and in truth, by
moral actions, but not by superstitious ceremonies, and childish
amusements.
XV. Organ of Firmness.
A peculiar natural sentiment that varies in individuals and nations,
is frequently exhibited in our intercourse with mankind. Some
children yield readily, others are obstinate and stubborn. Some
grown-up persons, also, can scarcely be said to have a will of their
own ; they follow the last impulse they receive, and without
strength to resist, are the easy instruments of all whom they meet.
Others are of an immovable character, firm in their resolutions,
and constant in their principles ; they do not attend to exhortations
nor to examples ; their conduct is uniform, and their exertions
may be calculated on in various situations of life.
Lavater observed, that persons endowed with perseverance and
firmness, had the top of their heads very much developed. Gall
made the same remark, and so many facts bearing on this point
have been collected, that we consider the organ of this sentiment
as established. (Pl. v. and Pl. vi. fig. 2. xv.)
ORGAN OF FIRMNESS. 223
It is not easy to define the feeling accurately, which inheres in
the part just pointed out. Its effects are often called will ; but
will, in the true sense, is rather the result of reflection than of any
of the propensities or sentiments. It is true, that persons endowed
with this feeling in a high degree, constantly say, I will, but they
employ I will in the same way and with the same signification as
is expressed by the words, I want, _
I desire, I insist upon, I com-
mand. The faculty here spoken of gives constancy and persever-
ance to the other powers, contributing to maintain their activity.
It is another ingredient of the love of dominion. Its applications
bear different names as they emanate from its combination with
other faculties, and relate to the situation of the individuals in
whom it is active. He who has firmness combined with pride,
ambition and selfishness, does not willingly obey others, but is
himself fond of commanding ; whilst he who is firm in his decision,
but just and benevolent at the same time, seeks for independence,
claims equal rights with evei-y member of the community, and re-
quires the same duties of all. The influence of the faculty is
always great, as well when the individual is well as when he is ill
disposed, that is, according as it is combined with the superior or
inferior feelings.
Being too active, it produces many disorders, such as infatua-
tion, stubbornness, obstinacy, and disobedience ; it is also one of
the causes of mutiny and sedition ; its insufficiency leaves the
other faculties to take the lead, and renders men inconstant,
changeable, and yielding to circumstances. It is however to be
remarked that perseverance in the gratification of predominant dis-
positions may be observed in persons whose organ of firmness is
small. An individual with large acquisitiveness, and small firmness,
may make great and constant efforts to become rich, but he will be
unsteady in the means he employs ; whilst another, with large
firmness, steadily pursues the plan he adopts.
The seat of the organ has already been indicated ; it is in the
midst of the other feelings, and seems to strengthen their general
activity.
224 PHRENOLOGY.
XVI. Organ of Conscientiousness.
The manifestations of a feeling of justice and conscientiousness,
or the love of truth and duty, are eminently deserving of attention
in the study of mankind. Many jurisconsults and other persons
connected with the law, think that positive legislation is the source
of justice, whilst the sentiment of justice, in reality, precedes leg-
islation and is its cause. Those are also wrong who maintain that
revealed religion has produced the feeling of justice or righteous-
ness ; whilst the feeling of conscience is innate and indirect only
in its application by revelation. Bt1t before proceeding farther,
let us distinguish two significations of the word justice. It means
the innate faculty which views all actions in the point of right or
wrong, and it indicates determinate actions as being just or unjust.
Revealed religion and civil legislation determine that which is posi-
tively just or unjust, but it must be ascertained whether there is a
fundamental sentiment which disposes mankind to look and to wish
for justice, and which receives the positive, civil, or religious leg-
islation. I use the term justice in conscientiousness in the first
signification.
In speaking of benevolence, I have shown that Gall confounds
this primitive sentiment with that of justice. vVe therefore differ
in our explanations of the phenomena of morality, he ascribing
them all to a single faculty, and I admitting two different senti-
ments, one of benevolence and another of conscientiousness. In
the same manner he considers the notions of man on the existence
of God and of religion as the result of one faculty, whilst I think
that several feelings, each dependent on a special organ, are con-
cerned in producing religious ideas.
It is certain that the feeling of duty or conscientiousness is not
equally strong in all men. Children, before they have received
any education, are very different in this respect; Some pay no
attention to representations on the point of jostice, others listen to
them with pleasure. Children, however, in general seem to pos-
ORGAN OF CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 22b
sess the feeling of justice in a higher degree than adult persons.
Among the latter some have an internal monitor which constantly
advises them of their duties, and without having the law they do
that which the law prescribes. But those who think that this in-
ternal monitor or primitive feeling is the best guide of innocence,
and the sure punisher of those who act in opposition to its dictates,
are greatly mistaken ; for it is quite obvious that the natural feel-
ing of conscientiousness is very weak in many individuals, and that
the law or the regulations of a watchful police are indispensably
necessary to keep them in order. Very few look always and only
for truth, and receive it from whatever source it comes. It is,
for instance, not predominant in those who may say of the assassi-
nation of a prince, 'it is uwre than a crime, it is a fault.' Nor
can it be considerable in an author, who writes, Reproach others
for nothing, and repent of nothing. The doer of ill must be de-
stroyed not punished, the doer of good is lucky not virtuous ; this
is the first step of wisdom. Plutarch, in the life of Flaminius, re-
marks, that of all virtues the rarest is justice. It is also certain,
that he who is dragged into criminal acts by very strong internal
propensities unbalanced by the feeling of justice, rarely feels com-
punction for his misdeeds, or repents sincerely. The brute incli-
nations constitute, if I may so express myself, his principal charac-
ter, and all the actions which result from them are in harmony with
his inclinations.
This fatal truth, though it may displease those who dream of
nothing but the dignity of human nature, is nevertheless proved by
observation, and is. conformable to Christianity. 'A good tree,'
said Jesus,-1i: ' cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt
tree bring forth good fruit.' ' The natural man,' says the Apostle
Paul,t ' receives not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are
foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are
spiritually discerned.' Cardinal Polignac+ speaks of men who are
born wicked, and to whom crime is delightful. ' 'Vhy should a
criminal,' he asks, ' who does not consider himself wicked, re-
* Rom. vii. 18. t 1 Cor. ii. 14.
29
; Antilucrece, t. i. p._164.
226 PHRENOLOGY.
pent?' Indeed the greatest criminals do not commonly think
themselves guilty, and therefore cannot repent. Some of them
with incredible stubbornness deny the most satisfactory proofs of
their guilt, and audaciously insult those who bear witness against
them ; others, with impudent sincerity, relate a series of horrible
trespasses, and find a subject of merriment in such crimes as make
humanity shudder. Mr. Bruggmanns, at Leyden, showed us the
skull of a robber chief, who had precipitated different persons into
the canals, only to have the pleasure of seeing them struggling in
the agonies of death. On his trial, this wretch said : ''Vhat will
you do with me-am I not an honest man ?' 'Ve saw a girl at
.Munster who had assisted her mother to kill her father, and who
did not manifest the slightest repentance. If her crime was spo-
ken of, she only shrugged her shoulders. In short, the reports of
the trials of almost all inveterate criminals justify the observation,
that there are certain guilty persons who are never guided by con-
science, and who never feel either remorse or repentance. Such
oeings are even proud of their power of doing evil, and relate
with pleasure the most remarkable stratagems and actions of their
criminal lives.
Sterne, (in Tristam Shandy, vol. i. p. 140,) has a remarkable
passage to this effect. ' 'Vhenever a man's conscience does ac-
cuse him, (as it seldom errs on that side) he is guilty ; and, unless
in melancholy and hypochondriac eases, we may safely pronounce
upon it that there is always sufficient grounds for the accusation.
But the converse of the proposition will not hold true, viz. that
whenever there is guilt, the conscience must accuse, and if it does
not, that a man is therefore innocent. This is not fact ; so that
the common consolation, which some good Christian or other, is
hourly administering to himself,-that he thanks God his mind
does not misgive him, and that consequently he has a good con-
science, because he hath a quiet one, is fallacious ; and as current
as the inference is, and as infallible as the rule appears, at first
sight, yet when you look nearer to it, and try the truth of this rule
upon plain facts, you see it liable to so much error, from a false
ORGAN OF CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 227
application, the principle upon which it goes so often perverted,
the whole force of it lost, and sometimes so vilely cast away, that
it is painful to produce the common examples of human life, which
confirm the account.
'A man shall be vicious, and utterly debauched in his principles,
exceptionable in his conduct to the world, shall Jive shameless in
the open commission of a sin, which no reason or pretence can
justify ; a sin by which, contrary to ali the workings of humanity,
he shall ruin forever the deluded partner of his guilt, rob her of her
best dowry, and not only eover her own head with dishonor, but
involve a whole virtuous family in shame and dishonor for her
sake. Surely you will think conscience must lead such a man a
troublesome life ; he can have no rest nig;ht or day from its re-
proaches.
' Alas ! conscience had something else to do all this time, than
break in upon him. Perhaps he was gone out, in company with
honor, to fight a duel, to pay off some debt at play, or dirty annu-
ity, the bargain of his lust ; perhaps conscience all this time was
engaged at home, talking aloud against petty larceny and executing
vengeance upon some such puny crimes as his fortune and rank of
life secured him against all temptation of committing; so that he
lives as merrily, sleeps as soundly in his bed, and at last meets
death as unconcernedly, perhaps much more so, than a much bet-
ter man.
'Another is sordid, unmerciful, a strait-hearted selfish wretch,
incapable either of private friendship, or public spirit. Take no-
tice how he passes by the widow and orphan, in their distress,
and sees all the miseries incident to human life, without a sigh or
a prayer. Shall not conscience rise up and sting him, on such
occasions ? No, thank God, there is no occasion. I pay every
man his own ; I have debauched no man's wife or child ; I have
no faithless vows or promises to make up. Thank God, I am not
as other men, adulterers, unjust, or even as this libertine, who
stands before me.
'A third is crafty and designing in his nature. View his whol~
228 PHRENOLOGY.
life. It is nothing but a cunning contexture of dark arts, and un...
equitable subterfuges, basely to defeat the true intent of all laws1
plain dealing and the safe enjoyment of our several properties.
You \vill see such an one working out a frame of little designs upon
the ignorance and perplexities of the poor and needy man ; shall
raise a fortune upon the inexperience of a youth, or the unsuspect·
ing temper of his friend, who would have trusted him with his life.
When old age comes on, and repentance calls him to look back
upon his black account, and state it over again with his conscience ;
conscience looks into the statutes at large, finds no express law
broken by what he has done, perceives no penalty or forfeiture of
goods, sees no scourge waving over his head, or prison opening its
gates upon him. \Vhat is there to affright his conscience. Con·
science has got safely entrenched behind the letter of the law, sits
there invulnerable, fortified with cases and reports so strongly on
all sides, that it is not preaching that can dispossess it of its hold.
'A fourth man shall even want this refuge, shall break through
all the ceremony of slow chicane, scorns the doubtful workings of
secret plots, and cautious trains, to bring about his purpose ; see
the barefaced villian, how be cheats, lies, perjures, robs, murders;
horrid ! but indeed much better \vas not to be expected in the
present case. The poor man, was in the dark, his priest had got
the keeping of his conscience, and all he would let him know of
it was, that he must believe in the Pope, go to mass, cross him-
self, tell his beads, be a good catholic ; and that this in all con·
science was enough to carry him to heaven.
' Thus, conscience, placed on high as a judge within us, and
intended by our Maker as a just and equitable one too, by an un~
happy train of causes and impediments, takes often much imperfect
cognizance of what passes, does its office so negligently, often so
corruptly, that it is not to be trusted alone, and therefore we find
there is a necessity, an absolute necessity, of joining another prin·
ciple with it, to aid if not to govern its determinations.'
l\ly only intention is to prove that there is a fundamental power
which seeks for justice, which is more or less active in different
ORGAN OF CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 229
tndividuals, being so weak in some as to be by no means sufficient
to restrain or to direct the inferior propensities. tVeakness of the
feeling of justice is a lamentable cause of disorder in the world,
ancl is the true source of almost all moral and political vices: This
deficiency makes man break engagements of all kinds ; makes it
necessary to declare royalty inviolable, and to make the ministers
of kings answerable ; it is this deficiency also that renders positive
laws indispensable to keep the individual propensities in order.
The feeling of justice is the attribute of a noble mind, and is an
essential condition of union and general happiness.
Dr. Guillie, of Paris, in his work on the instruction of the blind,
maintains that these unfortunates are natural1y deprived of sensibil~
ity, shame and conscience. Mr. John Joach Roques has answered
and refuted this extraordinary accusation in the fifth volume of the
Revue Encyclopedique.* Conscience is certainly independent of
sight. The blind, the deaf, and the dumb, follow their natural in-
clinations, before they have received a moral education. The
lower feelings are predominant in the greater number of them, as
well as of other persons, and their actions, therefore, mostly resem-
ble those of animals. Yet the want of sight or of hearing does not
exclude either justice or benevolence. These faculties exist, and
may act independently of each other. Convinced then that there is
in mankind a sentiment which seeks for justice, and that its ener-
gy is very different in different individuals, and even in nations, I
shall now consider its origin.
I have already explained and proved that the sentiment of be·
nevolence is not the same as that of conscientiousness. Benev·
olence may even be contrary to justice. I may find it my interest
to be very benevolent to certain persons. This behavior, however,
cannot easily be called just. :Moreover, the morality of our ac-
tions cannot be founded on religious faith and hope ; and still less
on selfishness ; such virtue would degrade those who practice it.
Hobbes, however, taught, in the middle of the seventeenth centu·
ry, that we approve of virtuous actions from self-love, knowing
*Page 610.
230 PHRENOLOGY.
that whatever promotes the interes1 of society has on that very ac"'
count an indirect tendency to promote our own. l\Iandeville too,
at the beginning of the last century, maintained that man is utterly
selfish, that he has a strong appetite for praise, and purchases this
praise by moral virtue. :Moreover, Hume thought utility the con-
stituent or means of virtue. Even Dr. Paley is an adherent
of the selfish system under a modified form. He makes virtue
consist in the doing good to manl{ind in obedience to the will of
God and for the sake of everlasting happiness. According to him
the will of God is our rule, but private happiness our motive. On
the other hand, Cudworth, Dr. Hutcheson, Dr. Reid, Dr. Price,
Day, and Stewart maintain the existence of a moral sense, which
produces the sentiment of right and wrong independently of any
other consideration. Adam Smith (Theory of :Moral Sentiments)
admits an instinctive principle of sympathy, which leads us to trans-
form ourselves in imagination into the situation of others, and com-
pels us to approve or blame their conduct, according as \Ye find
ourselves disposed or averse to participate in the feelings from
which it springs. Sympathy is an innate principle, but morality
an after-thought, derived from mature reflection. Thus, he derives
mediately conscientiousness from reason ; but the desire to be just
in one's actions is no science to be taught, and by no means in
proportion to the intellectual faculties. Do we not see daily
that the moral conduct of many does not answer their intellectual
capacities ? I wish every eritic of Phrenology had shown as much
love of truth and moral excellency as mental cleverness.
It is said that Socrates invented morality at Athens ; but Aristides
was just before Socrates lived, and Leonidas had died for his
country before Socrates taught, that to love our native land \Yas a
duty. I admit a fundamental sentiment of the desire to be just,
which, in my opinion, also produces remorse or repentance, and
constitutes the essential part of moral conscience. This feeling,
however, does not determine what is just or unjust, right or wrong,
true or false. These particular determinations depend on the other
faculties with which the sentiment is combined ; thus, a person
ORGAN OF CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 231
endowed with conscientiousness and some of the lower propensities
will call that just, which another, who possesses conscientiousness
combined with benevolence or reverence, will call unjust.* A
criminal in stealing from the rich and in giving to the poor, may
sometimes consider his actions as just. The combination of con-
scientiousness with other faculties, also, explains why various legis-
lators have taken such difrerent moral principles as the basis ol
their regulations.
These latter considerations teach us, that we cannot trust to the
natural conscience of man to perform that which is right and ad-
vantageous for all ; first, because few examine their actions accord-
ing to justice ; and secondly, because those who' do so are easily
misled, and, influenced by their individual faculties, often atTive at
erroneous conclusions ; hence follows the necessity of establishing
a determinate justice, or the law. The widow in Europe desires
to have a good settlement made by a deceased husband : in India
she desires to be burnt on his funeral pile.
Now, a question of much importance arises: Is the law or p.osi-
ti\'e justice arbitrary ? or is there a natural law which ought to be
universally acknowledged and admitted as obligatory in all countries?
Hitherto masters have commanded, and the law has made sin; but
is there then no morality that is universal ? Chemistry never va-
ries, geometry and arithmetic ever remain the same; may it not be
so with morality likewise ? These considerations are philosophi-
cal and practical , they, therefore, belong to the philosophical part
of Phrenology, where they are examined in detail. Here I ron-
fine my inquiries to the fundamental powers of the mind and their
respective organs.
Gall and I differ widely in our opinions upon justice. Accord-
ing to him, there is no particular organ of conscientiousness ; he
formerly considered what is called conscience as resulting from the J
dominant character of an individual, being opposed to his partie-
* ' AL the ways of man are clean in his own eyes, but the Lord weigheth the
spints ;' Prov. xvi. 2. 'Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the
Lord pondereth the hearts;' Prov. xxi. 2.
232 PHRENOLOGY.
ular actions. In this view there were consequently as many con-
sciences as faculties ; he even spoke of a good and of a bad con-
science,-the first being the opposition of the good, and the second
the opposition of the bad faculties to a particular action. Thus, if
a good-natured man commit a fault or offend any one, he repents,
and his conscience torments him because he has acted in opposition
to his dominant character. On the other hand, a usurer and a
libertine are sorry for having neglected a good opportunity, the
first of deceiYing, the second of seducing, some unsuspecting and
innocent person. Gall called this opposition of the dominant
character to any line of conduct, the natural conscience ; but he
said that we cannot trust to this, and that it is necessary to estab-
lish some positive conscience ; that is, to determine ,,-hat is to be
done and what is to be let alone, without the individual desires of
any one being considered. In consequence : Thou shalt adore
one God, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not kill, &c.
It is certain that good-natured persons repent when they have
committed a fault. A mother, for instance, lvho has been dishon-
ored and consigned to the most unfortunate of situations, may in a
moment of despair and confusion deprive her new-born child of life;
but the fatal concourse of circumstances being past, and the natural
sentiments of benevolence and justice beginning again to act, she
will feel the contradiction between her dominant character and her
action. At Spandau, in Prussia, we saw a man who, although
always looked upon as good-natured, had assassinated his wife in a
paroxysm of rage. Existence ever afterwards hung upon him as
a heavy burden. Yet it must be remarked that the opposition of
the natural character alone to any action does not constitute con-
science ; a criminal will not feel repentance for having acted in a
way which may be good in itself and not hurtful to him. A thief
who voluntarily gives a part of his booty to the poor will not repent
having done so, unless the act betrays him. Gall, in saying that
usurers repent having neglected a good opportunity of deceiving
others, confounds repentance or remorse with the being sorry for,
or being displeased. It seems to me that every organ not being
ORGAN OF HOPE. 233
satisfied, or being disagreeably affected, produces pain or sorrow ;
but I cannot conceive that every faculty produces repentance or
remorse. This as I have said before, is a peculiar affection of
conscientiousness.
The preceding considerations farther induce me to disapprove
of Gall's division of the conscience into natural, good or bad, ar-
tificial or positive. I divide it, first, into natural or absolute, the
effect of conscientiousness combined with all the other faculties
proper to man, those which are common to man and animals being
held in subordination ; secondly, into individual, particalar, or
relatit·e, which results from the conscientiousness of every one
combined with his other faculties ; thirdly, into positiL·e, which is
fixed by legislation whether divine or civil, as by the commands,
Thou shalt not eat meat on Fridays or Saturdays ; Thou shalt go to
church every Sunday, &c. Thus the sentiment of conscientious-
ness is the basis of morality ; it raises our mind to consider be-
tween wrong and right ; desires to be just ; thinks of duty and
moral obligation, and loves truth without determining justice on
truth. This feeling in itself, like all others, is liable to aberrations
and mistakes. Ravaillac, the murderer of Henry IV. king of
France, and Louvel, the assassin of the Duke of Berry, and In-
quisitors speak of justice. This sentiment may excuse every
cruelty in religious fanaticism.
The organ of conscientiousness is situated between firmness and
cautiousness. More details of this kind are given in the volume
on the Philosophical Principles of Phrenology.
XVII. Organ of Hope.
I shall now examine the affective powers, which besides benevo-
lence are essential to religion, and principally give faith or belief in
the miraculous part of religion ; or, as some express it, in the doc-
trines of religion, as if the moral part were not also a doctrine of
Christianity.
30
234 PHRENOLOGY.
Gall considers hope as belonging to, or as a part of the func-
tion of every faculty; but I think that he confounds this peculiar
feeling with desire, or want. Every faculty being active, desires,
therefore even animals desire ; but there is something more than
this in man-a peculiar feeling which is by no means proportionate
to the activity of any other faculty. We may desire ardently, and
yet be without hope.
The sentiment of hope is indeed necessary to the happiness of
mankind in almost every situation. It often produces more satis-
faction than even the success of our projects. Its activity, how-
ever, varies greatly in different individuals ; whilst some easily des-
pair, others are always elated and find every thing for the best ;
constant hope sustains them in the midst of difficulties ; the first
plan for accomplishing any object having failed, only stimulates
them to form new ones, which they confidently expect will suc-
ceed. Those who are everlastingly scheming, or building castles
in the air, possess this faculty in a high degree. It seems to in-
duce a belief in the possibility of whatever the other faculties de-
sire, without producing conviction ; for this results from reflection.
This sentiment is not confined to the business of this life ; but
passing the limits of present existence, it inspires hopes of a
future state, and belief in the immortality of the soul, which is
promised by Christianity.
Hope, like any other faculty, may be too strong or too \Veak.
In the former case it induces us to expect things which are un-
reasonable, not founded on probability, or altogether impossible.
When its energy is too feeble, on the contrary, and circumspec-
tion predominates, this is apt to produce despair, melancholy,
lowness of spirits, &c.
The organ of hope is situated laterally on each side of that of
veneration.
The organs of conscientiousness and hope, are intimately con-
nected on one side with firmness, and on the other with acquisi-
tiveness.
ORGAN OF MARVELLOUSNESS. 235
XVIII. Organ of JJ[m·vellousness.
There is still a sentiment which exerts a very great influence
over religious conceptions, and which, in my opinion, contributes
more than veneration to religious faith. Some find all things nat-
ural and regulated by the laws of creation ; many others are amus-
ed with fictions, tales of wonders, and miraculous occurrences.
They find in every passing event extraordinary and wonderful cir-
cumstances, and are constantly searching after whatever can excite
admiration and astonishment. This sentiment is to be observed
among mankind at large, both among savages and civilized nations.
In every age, and under every sky, man has been guided and led
by his credulity and superstition. The founders of all nations
have had a fabulous origin ascribed to them, and in all countries
miraculous traditions and marvellous stories occur in ample abun-
dance. Almost all histories, until within the two last centuries,
reported seriously supernatural facts. Hercules in his cradle suf-
.focated serpents ; Romulus was nourished by a she-\volf. There
are many disposed to believe in dreams, sorcery, amulets, magic,
astrology, in the mystic influence of spirits and angels, in the pow-
er of the devil, in second sight, and in miracles and incomprehen-
sible representations of all sorts. Some also are disposed to have
visions, and to see ghosts, demons, and phantoms. This senti-
ment gains credence to the true and also to the false prophet, aids
superstition, but is also essential to the belief in the doctrines of
refined religion. It is more or less active, not only in different
individuals, but also in whole nations ; its functions are often dis-
ordered, constituting one form of insanity, called demonomania.
The legislators of antiquity, aware of the great influence of this
faculty, made frequent use of it to enforce and to confirm their
laws. They spoke in the name of God, of angels, or of supernat-
ural powers. The angel Gabriel purified the heart of Mahomet
when a child. .Mahomet visited at night the different mansions in
heaven, and being introduced by Gabriel, he was welcome every
236 PHRENOLOGY.
where, and saluted as the greatest prophet. "\Vhatever Mahomet
did is represented as miraculous, and no pious .Mahometan doubts
of its truth. In our own days, the religious sects of Swedenbor~
gians, .Methodists, Quakers, and many others, particularly demon-
strate its influence and presence. Men at large have a strong prod '
pensity to believe in miracles ; but the .fact that accounts of super~
natural agency prove so generally false, is a reason for looking
upon them with distrust. Miracles indeed ought on this account
to be sifted more than common facts. In dramatic representations,
the introduction of ghosts, angels, transformations, and supernatural
events, proclaims its activity both in the author and in the public,
by whom such exhibitions are relished and sought after.
The existence of this feeling is certain. This disposition is in»
herent, or part of our mental constitution, like the disposition to
trace effects to adequate causes. Its organ is situated anterior to
hope, and a great developement of the convolutions on which it
depends enlarges and elevates the superior and lateral parts of the
frontal bone. It is remarkably prominent in the head of Socrates,
of Torquato Tasso, Dr. Price, Young, Stilling, "\Vesley, &c. l\Iy
observations on it are extremely numerous, and I consider it as
established.
The preceding facts determined me formerly to designate this
feeling by the name of supernaturality; and it is certain that it is
prineipally manifested by a belief in miraculous and supernatural
circumstances, in the foundation of religion by supernatural means,
and in its points called doctrines. As, however, the feeling may
be applied both to natural and supernatural events, and in every
case fills the mind with amazement and surprise, I do not hesitate
to change the name of supernaturality into that of marvellousncss.
This name I prefer to that of 'Wonder, adopted by Mr. Combe,
because, according to Dr. Johnson's dictionary, wonder is appli-
cable only to surprise excited by natural objects, whilst marz:ellous-
ness embraces both kinds of astonishment caused by natural and
supernatural circumstances.
ORGAN OF IDEALITY. 23"1
XIX. Organ of Ideality.
That 'a poet must be born,' has passed into a proverb, and
education is generally acknowledged inadequate to produce poetic
talents. Children sometimes exhibit such powe_
rs previous to any
instruction, and there is the greatest difference among adults in the
capacity. Pope says of himself, ' I lisped in numbers for the num-
bers came.' Those who study the phenomena of insanity, know
that the talent of poetry is often excited and developed by this dis-
eased condition. ' Several facts,' says Pinel, 'seems so extraor-
dinary, that they stand in need of the most respectable testimonies,
in order to be admitted. I speak of the poetical enthusiasm which
characterizes certain fits of mania when verses are recited, which
are by no means the result of reminiscence alone.'* Pinel men-
tions 'several of his own observations, and quotes the case of a girl
from Van Swieten, who, during her fits of mania, showed a rare
facility in making verses, though previous to her illness she had
been employed in manual labor, and had never had her understand-
ing cultivated by education.
Before we left Vienna, Gall had looked for an organ of poetry,
and even observed that the heads of great poets were' enlarged
above the temples, in a direction backward and upward; (Pl. IX.
fig. 2 XIX.) but he spoke guardedly on this point at that time.
Since we commenced our journey, however, we have multiplied
observations and accumulated facts to such an ~mount, that Gall
admits an organ of poetry as quite certain.
It is true, that great poets, both of ancient and modern times,
Homer, Pindar, Euripides, Sophocles, Terence, Ovid, Horace,
Ariosto, Torquato, Tasso, Shakspeare, Milton, Lord Byron, Schil-
ler, Goethe, Wieland, Racine, Comeille, Voltaire, &c. &c. have
the cerebral part, indicated above, much developed. It seems to
me, however, that there is no peculiar or single faculty of poetry
in the widest acceptation of that term. \Ve must therefore deter-
mine the essential of every kind of poetry, which I am inclined to
*Second edition, p. 111.
238 PHRENOLOGY.
attribute to this organ as its special faculty, whilst the species
of poetry produced, depends on the combination of this with the
other faculties of the individual poet. It cannot be the faculty of
versification; for some authors, J. J. Rousseau, Bu:ffon, and many
others, write in prose, and yet their expressions are highly poetic·
al ; while others make verses which contain no tinge of poetic feel-
ing. Still less is it the facuhy of rhyming, since among the an-
cients rhyme was entirely unknown, and among the moderns poetry
is not always in rhyme.
Now all great poets have this part of the brain much developed,
but all who have it large are not necessarily great poets, though
they may be fond of poetical conceptions. Women illustrate this
point ; they often possess the organ much developed, are fond of
poetry, but seldom excel in its composition.
I think that the poetic turn of mind results from a peculiar mode
of feeling, a certain manner of viewing the world and events. A
plain, unadorned description of things as they are, cannot be called
poetry; vividness, glow, exaltation, imagination, inspiration, rap-
ture, and warmth in the expressions, are requisite to constitute
compositions worthy of the name; all is represented in exagge-
rated terms, in a state of perfection, such as it ought to be. Po-
ets picture forth a factitious and imaginary world. 'fhus I admit a
sentiment which vivifies the other faculties, and impresses a pecu-
liar character called poetical or ideal. It may be combined \Vith
both the affective and intellectual faculties, and aspires to imagina-
ry perfection or completion in every thing. It produces the sub-
lime in the arts, makes enthusiasts of us in friendship, virtue, paint-
ing, music, or any other direction which our natural feelings or
talents take. Combined with attachment, it produces sentimental-
ity ; \vith the higher sentiments it leads to nobleness and delicacy
of character ; with self-esteem and love of approbation it causes
susceptibility.
The organ of this sentiment is placed by the side of marve11ous-
ness, and the two frequently act together, particularly in mythol-
ogy. Poetry is often embellished by the addition of the myste-
ORGAN OF MIRTHFULNESS. 239
rious and supernatural. I have collected many facts on this organ,
, and am quite certain that its function corresponds to the manner of
feeling just now described. The degree of exaltation experienced
by poets varies according to its greater or smaller developement.
Too great activity of the sentiment is a frequent cause of unhap-
piness, since it makes us look for a state of things, which, as it
does not exist, we cannot find. I call its organ that of Ideality.
It is small in criminals.
XX. Organ of ~firtlifulness.
There is something peculiar in the human mind, called TVitz by
the Germans, and JVit by the English, terms which have no exact
equivalent among the French, though the mental operation they
express is very active in France. I explain this peculiarity by the
combinations of the faculty, producing wit, with others, being dif-
ferent in Germany, England, and France. The French, eminent-
ly endowed with love of approbation, search constantly after dis-
tinction; they are consequently fond of merry sayings and showy
expressions, delight in what are called bon mots, esteem the esprit
de saillie et de repartie, and designate facility in these particulars
by the name bel esprit. The Germans and English, on the other
hand, frequently combine the faculty in question with that of re-
flection, and call it 1Vitz and Wit.
Those who write like Voltaire, Rabelais, Piron, Sterne, Rabe-
ner, Wieland, and all who are fond of jest, raillery, ridicule, irony
and comical conceptions, have the upper and outer parts of the
forehead, immediately before the organ of ideality, of considerable
size.
It is difficult to define the primitive faculty whose exhibition
accompanies this organization. Gall considers it as an intellectual
power, and calls it in French, esprit de srtillie, or esprit caustiqne,
though he allows that this name does not indic_ate JVitz.or JVit.
I repeat that, in my opinion, these words denote compound opera-
tions of the mind. Wit is commonly said to consist in facility of
f-'
.240 PHRENOLOGY.
comparing objects, in order to discover their similarity or dissim-
ilarity. But one may have the greatest talent for comparing ideas
or objects, without possessing wit. The mode of comparing phi-
losophically also differs very widely from that of comparing witti-
ly; a comparison may be witty, but philosophically erroneous at
the same time.
I do not consider the faculty ·as intellectual, but as affective ; as
a sentiment which disposes men to view every thing in a gay, joy-
ful and mirthful manner. It may be applied to words, to things,
to ideas, to arts, and to every mental manifestation. Hence the
different names it receives from its modified functions, such as wit,
good-humor, car;cature, mockery and irony. The poet, painter,
sculptor, draughtsman, musician, orator, &c. often proclaim its ac-
tivity in their productions. Combined with inferior feelings, and
not restrained by benevolence, reverence and justice, it is apt to
offend by sarcasms, epigrams, and satires.
The faculty, it seems to me, was given to man to render him
merry and gay,-feelings not to be confounded with satisfaction or
contentment ; these are affections of every faculty, whilst gaiety
and mirthfulness belong to that which now occupies our attention.
Its organ is situated, as I have said, in the upper and lateral part
of the forehead, before the organ of ideality. (Pl. IX. fig. 1. XX.)
Mr. 1Vi1Iiam Scott, of Edinburgh, has taken a particular view
of this faculty. He believes that its primitive function is to distin-
guish differences. According to him, the faculty of comparison
perceives resemblance, the one we speak of in particular, differ-
ences, and causality, situated between the two, necessary connex-
ion : the three combined, therefore, form the truly philosophic
understanding.
:Mr. G. Combe formerly thought well of this view, and there-
fore preserved the number and name of this organ, as they stand in
the two first editions of my Physiognomical System. In my
French publication I changed these, as I considered the name wit
insufficient, and the faculty so styled, a feeling. I continue to do
so, being more and more convinced that the alteration is prop~r.
ORGAN OF MIRTHFULNESS. .241
1.\-Ir. Combe, in his third edition, both of his Elements and of his
System of Phrenology, has adopted my new order of numbering
the organs, and seems disposed to adopt my view of this special
faculty. As to the view taken by Mr. William Scott, I reply, that
in my opinion the same pO\ver which perceives resemblances, per-
ceives differences also. I see no reason for adopting two faculties
for the act of discrimination. The same power perceives the har-
mony and disharmony of tones ; there is only one power of color-
ing; and the proportion and disproportion in dimensions are felt
by the same faculty of size ; in the same \vay, I think that compar-
ison alone distinguishes similitudes and dissimilitudes, differences,
analogies or identities. But even granting Mr. "\Villiam Scott's
supposition of one power for perceiving resemblances, and another
for perceiving differences, I still think it necessary to admit a special
feeling of mirthfulness. "\Ve may excite mirthfulness, it is true, by
making comparisons of things which differ, but we may do so also by
comparing things \vhich resemble each other. If amidst incongruity
and difference we seek for analogies, the faculty of comparison is
active, and combined with mirthfulness it will undoubtedly make us
laugh. But we may laugh heartily at a single object, without allusion
to any difference. Those who are the most disposed to laugh and to
be merry, are not always the most intelligent and the most skilful
in distinguishing either analogies or differences. The feeling of
mirthfulness, therefore, seems to be special. It may be excited by
pointing out differences or resemblances, by the agency of various
feelings, by playing tricks, or by inspiring fear. The fundamental
power then cannot be wit. This is only one of its applications,
and results from its combination with intellect. Mr. "\Villiam
Scott, in his well elaborated article of wit and the feeling of the
ludicrous (Phrenological Journal, No. xiv. p. 195.) thinks that the
view I formerly took of this faculty is more correct than that
which I now entertain ; and that it is an intellectual power which
compares for the purpose of discovering eontrasts, and of bringing
together incongruous, disproportionate and opposite ideas. I grant
that wit requires comparison and a contrast, be it incongruity, or
31
242 PHRENOLOGY.
even absurdity; in mean, burlesque or dignified objects ; be it in
.- travesting, exaggerating or diminishing reality ; but I see no proof
that these mental operations result from the faculty in question
alone, and therefore from an intellectual faculty. Religion becomes
reasonable by the influence of the reflective powers ; religion,
hov;ever, depends primitively on feelings. 1Vhy then should not
a peculiar feeling excite comparison, in a \Yay that its functions are
ludicrous o: laughable; dignity or meanness, exaggeration or dimi-
nution, are neither the effect of comparison, nor of the peculiar
feeling now under examination, but of other feelings. Hence, if
the pO\ver \Ye wish to determine appears under various modifica-
tions, this happens on account of its combination with other affec-
tive or intellectual faculties ; the ludicrous, mirthful, or comical
alone remains essential, but it becomes 'Wit by contrasting, or by
a peculiar mode of acting in comparison, and absurdity by con~
trasting in opposition to the laws of reason. The comic tendency
of this power is constant, but the perception of differences does
not seem to be its essence ; since persons may easily feel differen-
ces or even see the contrast, without wishing to amuse or w1thout
being amused. I therefore propose for this faculty the name of
mirthfulness. Its organ is before the organ of ideality, and above
that of tune. It is remarkable that the anterior, lateral, and upper
region of the brain contains the organs of ?UCh powers as seem to
be given particularly for amusements and theatrical performances.
The next also belongs to them.
XXI. Organ of Imitation.
Gall would not probably have thought of searching for the organ
of a faculty for imitating, had not one of his acquaintances, 1\fr.
Hannibal, at Vienna, who possessed this power in great perfection,
and was an excellent actor, desired him to examine a transverse
furrow in the middle of his head. The hollow Gall found, but he
was more struck \vith a considerable elevation of a semi-globular
form before it. Shortly after this, in the Institute for Deaf and
ORGAN OF IMITATION. 243
Dumb, he perceived a configuration of the upper and fore part of
the head exactly resembling that of his friend's, in an individual,
who, having for the first time put on a mask at the carnival, imitat-
ed perfectly all those who frequented the institution. These two
cases furnished a basis for further observation, and after much re-
search both in Vienna, and during our travels, and finding a regular
coincidence between the developement of the cerebral part in the
situation described and the faculty of imitation, we admit its func-
tion as demonstrated. Those who have it highly developed are
fond of acting and of dramatic representation ; they also often imi-
tate the gestures, voice, manners, and in general all the manifeata-
tions of man and animals. (Pl. ix. fig. 2. xxi.)
The existence of the faculty of imitation is proved in the same
way as every other primitive power. It is in general more active
in children than in adults ; and it is known that children learn a
great deal by imitation : they do what they see done by others :
they repeat what they hear told. It differs much in adults, and is
not at all proportionate to the other faculties. Those who have it
large speak not with words only, they accompany all they say with
appropriate and descriptive gestures, and imitate the voice, air and
behavior of those who form the subjects of their conversation.
Sometir_nes idiots from birth imitate much of what they see and
hear. Cabanis* mentions the case of one whose desire to imitate
the attitudes and movements of others was irresistible. Pinel i·
relates the case of an idiot female who imitated all that was done
in her presence, repeated automatically what she heard told, and
imitated with great correctness the gestures and gait of the insane
in the hospital. Finally, the correspondence between this natural
capacity and the state of a certain organic apparatus, proves beyond
doubt the existence of such a power.
Its sphere of activity is very great, especially during infancy.
Some, throughout life, manifest it in an eminent degree, and feel a
peculiar pleasure in theatrical performances. Though indispensa-
* Du Rapport entre le Physique et le Moral de l'homme, t. I.
t Second Edition, De }'alienation Mentale, p. 99.
244 PHRENOLOGY.
ble to actors, it, however, of itself neither constitutes the come-
dian nor the tragedian. Its combinations with other mental facul-
ties show how far individual actors are fitted to play particular
characters. Alone, the faculty does nothing but imitate, and any
actor may copy the manner of playing of others, without being ca-
pable of conceiving the expressions or natural language of a given
character. T..Q do this, the individual faculties, which constitute
that character, must be combined with imitation. This view ex-
plains why an actor may be perfect in one line and scarcely
middling in another. The possession of the faculty of imitation is
essential to success in the arts of drawing, sculpture, and painting ;
it gives what is called expression and life. Without it the pro-
ductions of artists are stiff and inanimate. It gives the facility of
feeling and performing dramatic music, and of acquiring the accent
of foreign languages. It aids orators essentially, by regulating
their declamation and gesticulation. It is the basis of the talent of
ventriloquism.
The three faculties last discussed are essential to theatrical per-
formances. They most generally act in combination with the in-
tellectual faculties, but their nature seems nevertheless·to be rather
affective than intellectual.
It is difficult to say, to what extent animals possess this faculty.
.Monkeys do various things like man ; but is this in consequence
of mere imitation, or of their having certain powers in common
with man ? The latter part of the question would seem to be well
answered, in many cases, in the affirmative. On the same prin-
ciple, the imitation of singing-birds may be explained, rather by
the faculty of tune, than by imitation alone. The power of tune
perceives, recollects and repeats the song of other birds, or of
man ; yet I admit that the primitive power of imitation exists
among many tribes of the animal kingdom. Parrots not only re-
peat harmonious tones, but all sorts even of harsh and discordant
nOises.
Gall attributes to imitation the pleasure which some persons feel
in being masked. For my part, I think that the love of imitating
ORGAN OF IMITATION. 245
costumes, actions and gestures, and the desire of concealing the
face with a mask or domino for the sake of intrigue, cannot be
confounded together. '\Vhenever concealment interferes, the or-
gan of secretiveness is active, and plays a principal part.
General R e
flections on the .!lffective Faculties.
Reasoning will never refute the idea of peculiar organs being
necessary for the affective manifestations of the mind. The mind
in itself may be simple, but observation shows, that each sort of
affective operation is attached to a particular part of the brain.
Another essential point is, that the affective faculties depend on
internal sources, that they are often active spontaneously, and not
from the excitation of external causes; moreover, their functions
are always involuntary; and, finally, they exist independently of
understanding, for they are blind impulses, and are only enlightened
by the addition of reason. They are almost the sole causes of the
variety of action that degrades or exalts the human character. It
is a just idea to represent ignorance as an evil spirit. Love, too,
is well figured with bandaged eyes. Emblematic portraitures of
all feelings might be similarly circumstanced ; for the very highest
sentiments of human nature, without the guidance of intelligence,
err incessantly. How necessary then to cultivate the powers
which point out the sources of our errors, and how blasphemous
and irreverent towards the great Creator every attempt to repress
the exercise of intelligence ! The friends of humanity cannot stig-
matize sufficiently, nor expose in too strong a light to the execra-
tion of mankind, that abomination, religious despotism, which in-
terdicts reason, and requires of those who would obtain eternal
happiness, blind faith and unenlightened obedience. Such a tyran-
ny can be exerted only to continue errors of evety description,
and with these to inflict every kind of evil upon the \vorld ; it even
renders the possibility of avoiding or correcting falsehood unattain-
able.
In treating of the preceding organs, I mentioned .the discoveries
246 PHRENOLOGY.
of Gall, and added the analysis as I found it out, with respect to
the greater number of their respective faculties, particularly of the
moral and religious feelings. Gall always derived the preceding
powers from within, but did not admit their nature to be merely
affective.
SECTION IX.
OJ Understanding, or the Intellectual Factdties.
cd l intellectual every faculty which procures to man or ani~
mals any kind of knowledge, cognition of any impression, be it of
hunger or thirst, of the sensation of fatigue, of pain, of the affective
functions, of the existence of external objects, their qualities or
relations. Knowledge, then, is the essential object of the int"ellec-
tual faculties. I divide the order of intellectual faculties into four
genera, which I shall investigate separately in as many chapters.
In the first, I shall speak of the external senses ; in the second,
of the faculties which know external objects and their physical
qualities ; in the third, of the faculties which procure notions of
relations ; and in the fourth, of those which reason or reflection
the operations of all the other mental powers.
CHAPTER I.
GENUS I.-OF THE INTELLECTUAL FA.CULTIES.
External Senses.
The external senses permit man and animals to communicate
with the beings around them ; it is by their medium that deter-
minate consciousness of the external world is acquired ; without
them, man, animals would only have an internal existence, but and
• I
EXTERNAL SENSES. 247
not, as Richerand says, a mere vegetati1;e existence. What then
can be more interesting to man than his senses, to which he 0\ves
so many sensations, so many enjoyments ? Hence, the assiduous
study of their functions and structure by philosophers, physiologists
and anatomists, who nevertheless made little progress, and left
many essential points in darkness. On the other hand, various
extravagant and contradictory opinions have been the fruit of their
labors. Of a few of these I shall take a brief notice.
I do not remember that the affective powers have ever been
derived from the external senses ; but this is not the case in res-
pect to the intellectual faculties. According to many ancient
philosophers all ideas are innate, and are only excited by the ex-
ternal senses. Since the time of Bacon and Locke, the greater
number of philosophical systems rest upon the axiom of Aristotle,
that all rideas of the mind begin with impressions furnished by
means of the external senses. Dr. T. Brown says,'*' 'In the ex-
ternal senses we find the rude elements of all our knowledge, the
material on which the mind is ever operating, and \vithout which
it seems to us almost impossible to conceive that it could ever
have operated at all ; and could even see its absolute activity, or
have been conscious of its own internal existence.' According to
this principle, the perfection of the intellectual faculties must de-
pend on that of the external senses. Now if the ideas and sensa-
tions of man ang animals are either produced or excited solely or
specially by one or other of the five senses, they ought to manifest
capacities according to external circumstances and accidental im-
pressions ; their faculties ought to bear relation to the state of the
five senses, and to the education these have received ; and individ-
uals ought to be susceptible of change and modification at pleasure.
Daily experience, however, contradicts this hypothesis with all its
conclusions.
Another class of philosophers maintain that the mind acts inde-
pendently of all organization, and that the senses are rather an
impediment to, than instruments in, its action. They complain
* Lectures, stereotype edit. p. 109.
248 PHRENOLOGY.
much of the illusions of sense, and despise all testimony and every
_ conclusion grounded upon sensation. According to them, that
only is truth which may be conceived by the understanding alone.
If the influence of external objects, of social institutions, of educa-
tion in general, be denied, it would be to contradict the history of
all times and of every individual. If truth resulted from reflection
alone, it would be easy to establish general laws, and it ·would be
unnecessary painfully to collect a great number of facts, and to per-
form a great number of experiments in order to deduce general
principles. But history proves the insufficiency of reflection alone,
that is, of reflection unguided by experiment.
Finally, another sect of philosophers admits two sources of in-
tellectual manifestations, an external and a~ internal, on one or
other of which all are dependent.
I shall first consider some generalities of the external senses ;
afterwards show that many faculties, attributed to them, cannot re-
sult as effects of their activity, and, in fine, examine the special
functions of each external sense.
GENERALITIEs AS TO THE FIVE ExTERNAL SENsEs.
I. Doubleness of the Organs.
The organs of every external sense, as of the functions of ani-
mal life in general, are double : there are two eyes, two ears, two
nerves of smell, of taste and of touch. Some authors have denied
the doubleness of the cerebral organs, but the denial was founded
on their mistaking doubleness for symmetry. It is true that both
sides of the brain are seldom symmetrical, the right hemisphere is
generally larger than the left, but is this want of symmetry not the
case \vith the eyes, ears, and other double parts ? Thus the want
of symmetry does not prove that they are not double. Indeed the
nerves generally are larger on the right side of the body, which is
also larger and stronger than the left. It is commonly maintained,
that the right hand and foot are larger in the generality of cases,
EXTERNAL SENSES. 249
because they are more used and exercised than the left. But this
may be answered by the fact of the plurality of infants being right-
handed. Of ten children born, there are perhaps seven who from
birth employ the right hand without any teaching, and though the
remaining three be taught to use it, they nevertheless feel greater
strength in the left. But the superior power of the right hand is
not the result of exercise, for, as I have said, all parts of the right
side are stronger than of the left, even to the hemisphere of the
brain.
Disease, too, most frequently attacks the left side.
The organs of animal life, then, are double, while those of veg-
etative life are mostly single.
II. The Consciousness of every Sense is Single.
Another generality of the five senses is, that while each has two
sentient apparatuses, and accordingly recei\'es double impressions,
consciousness is still only single. Yarious theories have been of-
fered of this phenomenon, and sight has generally been examined
in its discussion. The explanation has been given by
1. Touch.
Many suppose single consciousness to be a consequence of the .
information communicated by the sense of touch. At first, say
they, objects are seen double, but touch rectifies the error. This
was Buffon's opinion. He supported it by the following experi-
ment: If we look with both eyes to\vards two objec.ts in the same
direction, and fix our eyes upon the nearer, we see it single, but
at the same time the farther double ; if, on the contrary, we fix
upon the farther object, we see it single, and the nearer double.
This experiment, according to Buffon, proves evidently, that ob-
jects are seen double, but judged single by the rectification of the
touch. As the same object, however, appears at one time double,
and at another single, how is it possible to infer that touch has cor-
32
.250 PHRENOLOGY.
rected sight? why is the correction only relative, referring now to
the nearer, then to the farther object ? It seems to me, that a very
different conclusion may be drawn from the experiment, viz. that
touch has nothing to do with sight. Sight, and all its modifications
and allusions, depend on the organization and position of the eyes
and on the laws of the refraction of light.
:Moreover, no one recollects ever having seen objects double
during his infancy. None of those born blind who have recovered
their sight by a surgical operation, ever saw objects double. Nei-
ther have we observed nor heard that animals take smgle objects
for double ones. The butterfly does not confound a flower, nor
the lamb its mother, with their shadows. Even animals which
Jive during so short a time, that they can never rectify their vision
by touch, are not deceived by the multiplicity of objects. Some-
times, moreover, in morbid affections of the eyes, and from squint-
ing, man sees double, notwithstanding all his preceding experience.
It is consequently evident that the cause of single vision is not to
be found in the sense of the touch.
2. Corresponding Points.
Others explain single vision by saying, that if the image of any
object fall upon points of the retina, which are commonly affected
simultaneously, the object appears single ; but if the image fall up-
. on different parts of the retina, which, in general, are not affected
at the same time, the object appears double. This explanation is
very commonly received. Cuvier and Richerand admit it. It is
rare, however, that the same corresponding parts of the retina in
\ both eyes are affected at the same time.
3. Inequality of the Eyes.
Several again maintain that inequality of the eyes causes the sin-
gle consciousness of sight. According to them, the impression on
the stronger is alone perceived. It is indeed true that very few
EXTERNAL SENSES. ~51
have both eyes equally strong, consequently the impression upon
each eye is of unequal force. But if only a single impression
were perceived, why should we see better with both eyes, and
hear better with both ears, than with one ?
4. Dec'ttssation of the Optic Nerves.
Ackermanns find an explanation of single vision in the decussa-
tion of the optic nerves. Such an arrangement, however, does
not exist in the auditory nerves. And the single consciousness
of sight, hearing, smell and taste, must all necessarily be explained
in the same manner.
5. Active State.
Gall ventured to give another and a different explanation. He
distinguishes two states of activity in organs of the senses, calling
one active, the other passive. The functions are passive if per-
formed independently of the will ; the eye, for instance, necessa-
rily perceives the light which falls upon it, and the ear the vibra
tions propagated to it. Now, we perceive passively with both
organs, says he ; we see with both eyes, hear with both ears, but
the active state is confined to one organ, and commonly to the
strongest. 'Ve see with both eyes at the same time, but we look
with one only ; we hear with both ears, we listen only with one ;
we feel with both hands, we touch with but one, &c.
There is no doubt that we look with one eye only. In p1acmg
a pencil or any other thin body between us and a light, keeping
both eyes open and throwing the axis of vision, the stick, and the
light into a right line, did we look with both eyes, the pencil
should occupy the diagonal and its shadow fall on the nose. But
this always falls on one eye, on that which the person, who makes
the experiment, ordinarily uses in looking with attention. If the
pencil be kept in the same position, and the eye not employed in
looking be shut, the relative direction of the objects will seem to
252 PHRENOLOGY.
remain the same; but if he shut the eye with which he looked, it
will be altered, and the pencil will appear removed far from its ford
mer place. Again, let any one look at a point but little way dis-
tant, both eyes will seem directed towards it; let him then shut
his eyes alternately. If he close the one with which he did not
look, the other remains motionless ; but if he shut that with which
he looked, the other turns immediately a little inwards, in order to
fix the point. .Moreover, the eyes of many animals are placed
laterally, and cannot both be directed at once to the same object.
Finally, the gestures of man and animals prove that they look with
one eye, and listen with one ear ; for they direct one eye or one
ear towards the object to be seen or heard.
To this 'Valther and Ackermann have opposed an erroneous
conclusion from a certain experiment. Knowing green to be a
compound of yellow and blue, they inferred that this color would be
produced by looking through spectacles of which one glass was
blue and the other yellow. Gall and I often tried this experiment,
but never with any such result. Both glasses of the spectacles
being equally thick, we found objects tinted with the color of that
before the eye habitually used. 1Vhen they were of different thick-
nesses, the color of the thinner was perceived.
It may be asked, \vhich eye is most ordinarily employed in look-
ing. Le Cat thought it was changed e\Tery day. Borelli believed
the left eye to be strongest ; but Le Cat asserted that some-
times the right, sometimes the left, had greatest power. ""\Ve have
observed that, as in general the whole right side of the body is
stronger than the left, so the greater number of persons look with
the right eye. All do not, however, look with their strongest eye.
'
Notwithstanding what has been said, Gall's explanation seems to
me little satisfactory. Indeed it is very remarkable that passively,
we perceive at the same time the impressions of both organs of any
sense, not only if one, but also if different objects impress the two.
Even different impressions of different objects may be perceived
by both organs of t\VO senses at once. 'Ve may, for instance,
with both eyes see different objects at the moment that with both
EXTERNAL SENSES. 253
ears we hear different sounds. As soon as we are attentive, how-
ever, as soon as we look or listen, we perceive but one impression.
It is impossible, therefore, to attend to two different discourses at
once. The leader of an orchestra hears passively all the instru-
ments, but he cannot be attentive except to one. The rapidity
of mental action deceives several, and makes them think it possible
to attend to different ol~ects at the same moment. It follow::; that
there is a difference between the active and passive state of the
senses; but whether this difference suffices to explain the single con-
sciousness of every sense is another question ; I think it does not.
First, this explanation would only apply to functions in their ac-
tive, not at all in their passive state; and the cause of single con-
sciousness must be the same in both. Farther, the active state is
not produced by the external senses themselves, any more than
voluntary motion by the mere muscles. Some internal power ren-
ders the senses active ; they themselves are always passive, and
merely propagate external impressions ; they appear active only
when something internal employs them to receive and to transmit
impressions to the brain. It is therefore probable that the internal
cause which excites only a single organ of the external senses to
activity, is also the cause of the single consciousness of different
impressions. Gall's explanation of single consciousness is conse-
quently not only grounded upon an inaccurate notion, but would be
far from satisfactory, were the supposition even true.
6. Commissures.
Another explanation of single consciousness may be found in the
commissures, or uniting fibres of both organs. For though every
organ of sense be double, similar parts on each side are united by
a peculiar apparatus. The impressions of both organs may possi-
bly be combined by this arrangement. In admitting that this would
explain single consciousness in the case of any given sense, it
would not, however, explain single consciousness of impressions
received by different senses.
254 PHRENOLOGY.
7. Central Point.
The explanation having the old idea of a central point for its
basis, will no longer be listened to, as anatomy proves that no such
point exists in the brain. From all that has been said, it is evi-
dent that no fact either in anatomy or physiology explains the sin-
gle consciousness.
8. Singleness of Mind.
It seems more probable that tlie singleness of mind explains its
single consciousness. But from what I have said, it follows that
consciousness is not always single. Single consciousness therefore
must be distinguished from personal identity. This latter seems
to depend on the special power which I name Individuality.
III. Every Sense has its own peculiar Nature.
A third generality of the five senses is, that its own power suffi
ces to each to perform its function. Although much has been said
of the mutual rectification of the senses, and of their habits, it is
a general principle, that the power or capacity of every sense is
inherent in the sense itself. Farther, the relation of the senses
to external impressions is determinate and subject to positive laws.
As soon as odoriferous particles impress the olfactory nerve, the
impression is at once either found to be agreeable or otherwise,
and according to this relation between external impressions and
external senses, the manner of acting of man and animals varies.
No preceding exercise or habit furnishes each sense with its special
power ; this depends pn its peculiar organization alone. If the
organization be perfect, the functions are, in like manner ; and if it
be imperfect or diseased, these are defective or deranged notwith-
standing all preceding exercise. If the optic apparatus be perfect
in birds, when they break the shell, their sight is perfect; on the
EXTERNAL SENSES. 255
contrary, if the organization of the eye and ear m new-born ani-
mals be imperfect, seeing and hearing are the same ; and if the
eyes of adults be diseased, vision is deranged. In the aged the
functions of the senses lose their energy, because the vital power
of the organs decreases.
It is, indeed, absurd to suppose, that the Creator should have
produced any sense incapable of performing its functions without
support from another and a different one; for example, that the eye
should not see without the aid of touch, or the ear not hear without
assistance from sight. In Phrenology, the following positions are
of prime importance : none of the senses acquire their faculties
from any of the others ; every sense produces special sensations ;
all senses may procure the idea of existing objects, and one sense
is fitter than another to acquaint us with particular bodies and their
qualities.
Touch, proves that a straight rod, which, half plunged into wa-
ter appears crooked, is straight, and this is a kind of rectification ;
but this must not be confounded with the idea, according to which
one sense acquires its faculty by the rectification of another.
Touch shows that the rod plunged in water, which looks crooked,
is straight; but the eyes will always see it crooked, since the l~ws
of sight are determinate, and we see according to the laws of the
refraction of light. Such rectification of the senses is mutual and
general, not the prerogative of any one in particular. The eyes
may rectify the sense of touch: if, without our knowledge, a piece
of thin paper be placed between our thumb and fore-finger, we
may not feel but see it. Even smell and taste may rectify the
senses of sight and of touch. Many fluids feel like water, but
smell and taste proclaim them different. Thus every sense has its
peculiar and independent faculty, is subject to constant laws, and
depends on the state of its appropriate organ for its capacity to
perform its office; but every sense also recognises impressions im-
perceptible to another, and in this way are the senses mutually
aidant in coming to exact notions; for instance, in the study of nat-
ural history.
256 PHRENOLOGY.
IV. Every Sense may be exercised.
Another observation generally applicable is, that though no sense
acquires its faculty by exercise, yet the function of every one is
strengthened by it. The sense of feeling, long and carefully exer-
cised, acquires a very high degree of perfection. Thus the blind
know the proximity of external objects by the impression of the
air upon their faces. Le Cat speaks of one born blind at Pois-
caux, 'ivho distinguished the distance of the fire by the degree of
its heat. Saunderson, though blind, in handling a series of med-
als, discerned the false from the true more exactly than many con-
noisseurs. Le Cat mentions a blind sculptor, Ganibasius of Vol-
terra, who traced the living face with his fingers, and modelled it
in potter's clay. The deaf and dumb, in the institution of Mr.
Eschke, at Berlin, knew perfectly what was written on their backs,
though covered with clothes. Boyle and others relate histories of
the blind, whose touch was so acute, as even to enable th.em to
distinguish colors and their shades. The same thing is stated of
the_
blind Weissenbourg, of :Manheim. This man had about thirty
pieces of different-colored cloths~ and could indicate with precision
the hue of each ; but he often made mistakes in the color of stran-
gers' clothes. The cards with which he played were marked; he
did not distinguish them by their colors, as those who were not
acquainted with this imagined. :Many blind persons have assured
me of their incapacity to distinguish colors. A few, however,
discern white from black, because white surfaces are in general
smoother than black. "\Vhen the blind pretend to distinguish col-
ors, they do no more than determine surfaces of greater or less
degrees of smoothness, without acquiring any idea of color in itself.
The sense of taste as well as every other is strengthened by
exercise. Certain articles are tasteless or unpleasant at first; for
instance, oysters and truffles; but having been eaten several times,
their particular savor is distinguished. A common opinion is, that
the sense of taste is blunted by spiced dishes and refined cookery.
EXTERNAL SENSES. 257
But who will maintain that our cooks and dainty-mouthed gour-
mands have a more obtuse taste than savages, who distinguish the
flavor of some roots insipid to a civilized palate ? Do not the fre-
quent accidents from poisonous vegetables, hemlock, belladonna,
and improper mushrooms, prove that the taste of the sober coun-
tryman is no surer guide than that of the voluptuous citizen ?. We
must, however, admit in regard to taste what happens universally;
too strong irr~pressions blunt its sensibility; the functions grow more
energetic only by a due quantity of exercise.
The sense of smell may also be exercised. 1\Iany physicians,
on entering a sick room, distinguish the kind and state of certain
diseases. It is related that some negro tribes follow others by the
scent, as dogs do, and even distinguish between a negro and a Eu-
ropean. Smell is blunted by the application of very strong and
penetrating odors; conformable exercise alone strengthens its
functions. .
The sense of hearing, like the senses already spoken of, is cul-
tivated by exercise. The blind "\Veissenbourg, of .Manheim, judg-
ed exactly of the distance and stature of persons who spoke to him
standing. The blind Schoenberger, of 1Veide, in the Upper Pal-
atinate, had the sense of hearing so acute, that it was sufficient by
tapping to indicate the place where the nine pins were set up, or
the situation of the target to be shot at, to enable him often to
throw or shoot successfully. Blind persons indeed often find a pin
or piece of money which makes a noise in falling.
Finally, the eyes acquire a very high degree of acuteness by
exercise. Le Cat mentions a deaf woman of Amiens, who distin-
guished what other persons said from the mere motion of their lips.
When a foreign language was spoken, she discovered it immedi-
ately. Gall and I observed similar cases at Berlin and elsewhere;
nay, we conversed with several who understood us, even when we
concealed the mouth; the motions of the face were sufficient. It
follows, then, that though exercise produce not the faculties of the
external senses, the functions of each may still be rendered more
energetic by exercise.
33
258 PHRENOLOGY.
V. The Function of every Sense is modified.
A fifth general consideration of the external senses is, that their
functions are modified not only in different kinds of animals, but
even in different individuals of the same kind. The taste and
smell of carnivorous and herbivorous animals undoubtedly differ.
The ox and horse find hay to be savory, while the dog and wolf
find flesh to be well-tasted. The senses are also modified by dif-
ferent ages according to peculiar habits or circumstances, and even
participate in the various states of health. This fact explains the
longings felt during pregnancy, or experienced by hypochondriacal
and hysterical people, and also why we are sometimes disgusted
with what we formerly liked. Moreover, several substances, in-
odorous to man, make a strong impression on the olfactory nerves
of certain animals. Some animals, too, are much excited by
odors, to which others are indifferent. One odor is agreeable to
one individual, and disagreeable to another. In the same way,
the eye and ear must differ in animals living under water, from
those of creatures which inhabit the air; the eyes even differ in
those animals which see in the night from those which see during
the day. One individual likes a color or a sound displeasing to
another. Thus the functions of the external senses are universally
modified.
FUNCTIONS TO BE DENIED TO THE FIVE SENSES.
I. Jlfost of the Perceptive, and all the .BiJective and Reflective
Factclties.
To specify the functions of the external and internal senses is
an essential point in Phrenology, however difficult the task may
b2. Physiology in this department is but little advanced, and
whether the external senses have consciousness or not is still a
matter of dispute. The considerations on sensibility in the first
section of this work, and those contained in this chapter, leave the
EXTERNAL SENSES. 259
point still undecided. I shall, therefore, confine myself here to
such points as may be proved by experience.
The axiom of Aristotle,* that all activity of the mind begins with
the external senses, is not less erroneous than is the assertion that
the sense of touch is cause of the instinctive labors of animals and
of the mechanical arts of man. It is easy to show, in a general
way, that the notions of external objects acquired by man and
animals, are not merely dependent on the external senses, and
in particular cases that such and such a talent is not tne efiect of
this or that individual sense. Let us begin with the general refuta-
tion.
· That the cognition acquired by animals and men of the external
world, and the superiority of the human understanding cannot be
attributed to the external senses, appears to me in this, that there
is no proportion between intellectual operations and · the senses,
either in different species of animals, or in different individuals
·of the same species. :Many animals surpass man in acuteness and
strength of external sense, yet none approaches man in understand-
ing. Moreover, idiots frequently possess very perfect senses,
while the most intelligent have them occasionally very weak. A
fact mentioned by Darwin t also proves that the five senses are
mere intermedia, and that the import of their impressions must be
judged of by something internal. An old man, who had had a
paralytic stroke, preserved the senses of hearing and of vision un-
touched ; he, however, could only receive ideas by means of the
latter ; when he was told that it was nine o'clock and breakfast-
time, he repeated the words distinctly, yet without gaining any
information from them; but if his servant put a watch into his
hand, and showed him the hour gone by, he said, ' Wby, 1Villiam,
have I not my breakfast ?' On almost every occasion, his servant
eould only converse with him by means of visible objects, although
his hearing was perfect.
The case of James Mitchel, in Scotland, furnishes evident proof
* Nihil est intellectu quod non prius fuerit in sensu.
t Zoonomia, third edition, vol. iv. p. 295.
260 PHRENOLOGY.
of the external senses not producing the affective and intellectual
faculties, but of their being mere intermedia between the external
world and the internal mental powers. As this case is of the ut
most importance, I shall state it with some details, drawing upon
the accounts published by the late Dr. Gordon, Dugald Stewart,
and James "\Vardrop, as well as all I learnt from his sister on a
visit I paid to Nairn.
He was born on the 11th of November, 1795, deaf and blind,
of intelligent parents. It may be supposed that he is not without
some internal sense of hearing, since he takes great pleasure in
striking hard bodies upon his fore teeth, which he sometimes con·
tinues to do for hours together. ' "\Vhen a bunch of keys,' says
Dr. Gordon, 'was given to him, he seized them with great avidity,
and tried each separately by suspending it loosely between two of
his fingers, so as to allow it to vibrate freely, and after tingling all
of them amongst his teeth in this manner, he generally selected one
from the others, the sound of which seemed to please him most.
This was one of his most favorite amusements, and it was sur-
prising how long it would arrest his attention, and with what eager-
ness he would on all occasions renew it. lHr. Brougham, having
observed this circumstance, brought to him a musical snuff-box,
and placed it between his teeth. This seemed not only to excite
his wonder, but to afford him exquisite delight; and his father and
his sister, who were present, remarked that they had never seen
him so much interested on any former occasion. "\Vhile the in-
strument continued to play he kept it closely bet\veen his teeth,
and when the airs were ended, he continued to hold the box to his
mouth, and to examine it minutely with his fingers, expressing by
his gestures and by his countenance great curiosity.'
He 'vas always possessed of so much of the sense of sight as to
be able to distinguish day from night, and to perceive bright colors,
particularly white and red. He was fond of shutting the house-
door or window-shutters, and remaining for a considerable time
with his eyes fixed on some small hole or chink through which the
sun's rays penetrate. He, however, seemed to derive no informa-
EXTERNAL SENSES. 261
tion from sight, as he always turned away his head while examining
the bodies presented to him.
His senses of touch and smell were very acute, and by their
assistance he was soon able to distinguish things and persons, stran-
gers and those of his family. 'When a stranger approached him,'
says Mr. 1Vardrop, ' he eagerly began to touch some part of his
body, commonly taking hold of his arm, which he held near his
nose, and after two or three strong inspirations through his nostrils,
appeared decided in his opinion. If it happened to be unfavorable,
he suddenly went to a distance with the appearance of disgust ;
if favorable, he showed a disposition to become more intimate, and
expressed by his countenance more or less satisfaction.' '.Yhen
I visited him in 1816, his sister told me that of late years he had
made less use of hi~ smell than formerly, in making himself ac-
quainted with external objects, and no fact has shown that he ever
distinguished the presence of any one by the smell alone. In the
year 1808, the drums of both ears were pierced, the one by Sir
Astley Cooper, the other by the late Mr. Saunders. In 1810,
when fourteen years of age, Mr. Wardrop performed an operation
on his right eye, which enabled him to see surrounding objects, if
not very minute. He nevertheless continued to examine every-
thing with his other senses, as if he had been totally blind and
deaf. He is most attracted by red, and looks longer at it than at
any other color; then comes white, and after that yellow. He
gathers together in the field flowers of the same kind. He cannot
measure exactly the distance of the objects from him, but he puts
out his hand in their direction, and examines them in the mode
already stated. This young man, though deprived of the two prin-
cipal senses of relation, was from infancy anxious to acquire know-
ledge of external objects. He also manifested the different feelings
without having been able to observe them in other persons.
He was always fond of young children ; he took them affection-
ately in his arms, but never associated with, nor joined in the amuse-
ments of boys of his own age. He, however, liked the company
of the boy who attended him in his excursions, in order to keep
26.2 PHRENOLOGY.
him from dangerous situations. Early in life he was uneasy when
his attendants were changed ; later he was less sensible to it. He
was very much attached to his relations. Dr. Gordon had men4
tioned, that :Mitchel was not sorrowful at his father's funeral; that he
moved rapidly among the crowd, touching almost every body, and
examining some very minutely. The Rev. Thomas Macfarlane,
on the contrary, in a letter to .Mr. Glennie, of Aberdeen, dated
the 7th of l\lay, 1812, positively says, ~ 'Vhen the coffin which
enclosed his father's corpse was brought from the house, and placed
upon chairs in the court before the manse, previous to the inter-
ment, I approached to the coffin, and soon after saw James Mitch-
el come from the house in considerable agitation. He turned about
rapidly, and snuffed very much, evidently guiding himself by the
smell. He directly approached the coffin, smelled it most eagerly
for several seconds, then laid himself down upon the lid on his face,
and embraced the coffin, while his countenance discovered marks
of the most lively sorrow. I stood close by him; and after a short
time patted his head once or t\vice ; upon which he rose, and re4
turned into the house. This occurred immediately upon the cof-
fin being brought out, and about twenty minutes before it was lift4
ed in order to be carried to the churchyard. As the accuracy on
this subject has been doubted, I purposely delayed writing to you,
till I should have an opportunity of conversing with the Rev. Pryce .
Campbell, minister of Ardensien, brother-in-law to Mrs. :Mitchel,
who \vas present at the funeral, and by whose direction every thing
was conducted. I fell in with this gentleman. I took an oppor-
tunity of asking him if he observed any marks of sorrow about
James ~litchel on the day of his father's funeral. He replied, that
he observed the most unequivocal marks of grief in his countenance,
and added a circumstance which escaped my notice, that when the
coffin was about to be lifted, in order to be carried to the church-
yard, James Mitchel clung to it, endeavoring to prevent its being
carried away, and he, (l\Ir. Campbell,) was obliged to remove him
from it by force.' Both these gentlemen remark, that the circum-
stances mentioned by Dr. Gordon, of Mitchel's running through
,
EXTERNAL SENSES. 26~
the crowd, and touching every person, do not amount to a proof
that he \vas insensible to the loss he had sustained. In acting thus,
:Mitchel was merely examining the assemblage of people around
him, and in this instance his curiosity overcame his grief. He
went se\'eral mornings to visit the grave, patted gently the turf
which had been laid over it, and at last, as if hopeless of his fa-
ther's return, became sorrowful even to tears. Shortly after his
father's death, his mother being unwell and confined to bed, he "·as
observed to \Veep. Afterwards, the mother left Ardelach and \vent
to Nairn. James Mitchel returned three times to visit his former
habitation. On his first visit, he went through the different apart-
'ments of the manse, examined the furniture, and having done so,
betrayed an anxiety to be gone, and returned directly to Nairn.
On the other visit, several "·orkmen were employed taking down
the kitchen. He stood some time evidently very much displeased
at \vhat was going forward, and then went away \vithout having
been prevailed on to enter the house. On his third visit, the
manse was repaired, and he came home in good-humor, and to
communicate \vhat be had observed to his sister, he lifted his
hands, one after the other, in succession, from the floor towards
the ceiling of the room. In the year 1814 he had a severe illness,
during the course of which he took a particular fancy to his aunt,
his father's sister, who was at that time living with his mother, and
insisted on her sitting constantly by him. It happened, that his
sister was taken umvell before his own perfect recovery, and he
would not now allow this aunt to sit down near him, but always
made signs that she should go up stairs, where his sister was, nor
did he rest till he had made good his point. He showed a wish to
get up stairs himself, and upon being brought up seemed quite satis-
fied when his sister patted him, and shook hands \Yith him. Thus
there can be no doubt of his affection and consideration for others.
He is generally placid, and of a mild temper, but if too much
teased, or if interrupted in his amusements, he is irritated, and
sometimes gets into paroxysms of violent rage, when he tears his
clothes. He is now gro·wn up, and no longer under the control ot
264 PHRENOLOGY.
his mother and sister. He is cautious, but not timid. He would
formerly take food from no one but his parents and sister. From
infancy he has been fond of retiring to a dark corner, and kindling
a light. He continues to dislike darkness ; after nightfall he seems
happy in reaching a room where there is a candle or a fire. l\Ieans
have been used to teach him to make baskets ; but he wants appli-
cation to finish any thing, and throw·s the materials into the fire ;
yet he knows from experience the danger of fire, water, and sharp
instruments. He has frequently amused himself with a dead fowl
in the kitchen, placing it ~epeatedly on its legs, and laughing when
it fell. He was allowed to touch his father's corpse ; as soon as
he felt it he shrunk away. This was the first time he had ever
touched a dead body. Several years later, a neighbor who had fre-
quently indulged him with a pipe and tobacco, died. His sister
brought him to the room where the body lay, and allowed him to
feel it. This he did very readily, not shrinking away as formerly
when he touched his father. He even seemed rather anxious to
examine it ; when he had so done, he stood for a few seconds rather
thoughtfully, and then smiled. He now retired willingly;- but not
before he showed that he recognised the person, and was sensible of
what had happened. This he did by making his usual sign for smok-
ing, and by putting his hand to the ground, his sign for interment.
He seems now apprehensive of dying. "\Vhen, in 1814, he
was so much reduced as to be incapable of walking without sup-
port, he could not be prevailed on to lie a single day in bed. He
\vatched the first appearance of dawn, and insisted on being dress-
ed immediately; thinking probably that he would not die out of
bed. He could bear to see nothing white near his bed, or even
in the room with him, when unwell. Several times something
white being by accident thrown across the foot of his bed, he ap-
peared most unhappy till it was removed, and even when linen was
put to the fire to air, he was in the greatest possible distress. This
dislike was explained from his having always seen dead bodies laid
out in white.
He always took pleasure in making prisoners. of other persons
EXTERNAL SENSES. 265
.
by locking them in the stable, or in a room, laughing and jumping
nbout all the while. His sister sent him one day with a half-penny
to buy two pipes. He understood the signs, went out to a shoe-
maker's house, where they \Vere to be had, and returned with one
in his hand. They suspected that he had another about him, and
gi,ring him to understand that he ought to have brought two, his
sister insisted on his going to fetch the second. He then unbut-
toned his coat, and laughing heartily produced the second pipe.
The Sunday after this, when his sister gave him a half-penny, as
usual, in church, to put into the poor's box, he placed it between
his teeth like a pipe and laughed, but she having given him a
shake, he dropped it into the box. 'Vhen I saw him, he was al-
lowed four pipes of tobacco a-day. His love of smoking being
well known, several persons in Nairn gave him tobacco, when they
met him in the street, but this he never produced until he had had
his daily allowance at home. He used formerly to break his pipe
as soon as it was smoked out ; he now makes each serve twice
before he breaks it. 'Vhen he has received tobacco from stran-
gers, however, it serves much oftener, as he is aware that t\vo
a-day are his allowance. They once gave him a more durable pipe,
but he threw it away. He did the same with old shoes, in order
not to be forced by his parents to put them on any more. It is
quite certain that he has ideas of property. He once, at no great
distance from the manse, met a person riding a horse which had
been purchased a few weeks before from his mother. On feeling
the animal, he seemed instantly to recognise it. The rider dis-
mounted, to see how Mitchel would behave, and was much amused
to find that he led the horse to his mother's stable, took off the
saddle and bridle, put corn before him and then withdrew, locking
the door and putting the key in his pocket.
He is extremely fond of walking and running about, of riding,
and of bodily exercise in general. Since his sight has improved,
he makes long excursions, but he alway~ returns to his meals.
'Vhen yet a child, he attempted to build small houses with turf,
leaving little openings resembling windows. For hours he employ-
34
266 PHRENOLOGY.
ed himself in the bed of the river which runs within a few yards
of the house, selecting stones of a round shape, nearly of the same
weight, and having a certain degree of smoothness. These he
placed in a circular form on the bank, and then seated himself in
the middle. He often floated pieces of wood on the water. He
always liked smooth bodies. He often endeavored to smooth sticks
or rods with his teeth, or caused the boy who attended him to
smooth them with a knife.
He early showed a great partiality to new clothes ; after the
measure is taken, nothing else seems to occupy his mind. He
literally persecutes the tailor and shoemaker, until his coat or shoes
are finished ; he is their guest morning, noon, and night. He pre-
fers persons well-dressed to those \vho are not. He never liked to
take his regular meals in the kitchen, yet in coming home before
dinner time, he will take a potato from the servant. He partic-
ularly courts the good opinion of his sister, and if made aware that
he has done wrong or offended her or his mother, he shows evi-
dent sorrow.
In the following anecdote a peculiar proof of his kindness will
be found. He had once received a severe wound in his foot,
during the cure of which he usually sat by the fire, his foot resting
on a low stool. .More than a year afterwards a servant boy with
whom he userl to play, h«ppened to be confined from a similar
cause. Young Mitchel per'"'eiv:ng that his companion remained
longer in one situation than usml, examined him attentively, and
seemed qu~ckly to discover, by the bandages on his foot, the
reason of his confinement. He immediately went up to a garret,
sought from amidst several other pieces of furniture the little foot-
stool, which had formerly supported his own wounded limb, brought
it down in his hand to the kitchen, and placed the servant-boy's
foot gently upon it.
It is difficult to say wheth.er he has any notion of religion. He
accompanies his relations to church, behaves quietly, and kneels at
family prayers. Three months after his father's death, a- clergy-
man being in the house, on a Stmday evening, he pointed to his
EXTERNAL SENSES. 267
father's bible, and then made a sign that the family should kneel.
Did he so Ly habit alone ?
James .Mitchel has alwdys shown dn inquisitive turn of mind,
great memory, and an eminent degree of judgr:~ent a.1d refl.er+ion.
Dr. Gordon said: 'The knowledge which he has derived from
the. senses of touch, taste, and smell, seems fully as extensive as
what any person of the most perfect faculties might be supposed
to arquire, if he could by any contrivance be prevented from using
his eyes and ears for the same period of time, from the moment
of birt11, and in the same retired situation of country. The train
of his thoughts seems to be regulated by (he same principles as
that of the soundest minds. His actions neither indicate inco-
herence nor fatuity ; but every thing he does appears capable of
being easily traced to rational motives.' And I might add : 1.ohy
not, since his brain is very well organized! Indeed he always felt
an interna~ des:re to acquire knowledge. He every day explored
ground wherJ he had not been before. He wished to become
acquainted with every thing that fell i,1to his hands. He amused
himself in visiting the carpenter's, or other tradesmen's shops,
handling their implements, and trying to discover what they were
engaged about. He knows the uses to which all common things
are put, and is pleased when the use of any thing with which he
is not acquainted is communicated to him.
Once when still young, he was caught creeping on his hands and
knees along a narrow wooden bridge, which crossed the river at a
point where the stream is rather deep and rapid. His father wish-
ing to discomage him from such a perilous attempt again, ordered
a servant to push him off and plunge him onc.e or twice into the
~:iver. This measure had the desired effect. But several years
later, having got angry with the servant boy as they were playing
together in a boat, he took him, plunged him into the water and
drew him out, just as he had been served himself on the former
'Occasion. He was soon aware of the advantages which other
persons enjoyed. He sometimes proceeded alone in his excur-
sions ; but finding any obstacle, he waited till his boy arrived and
268 PHRENOLOGY.
assisted him. He now goes alone to great distances, for instance,
from Nairn to Fort George. He easily learnt to measure time.
On one occasion his mother went from home, and he seeming
anxious about her, his sister bent his head gently, as laying it on a
pillow, and shutting his eyes, once for each night the mother was
to be absent, in order to show him that he would sleep so many
times before her return.
In this way too it was signified to him how many days were to
pass before his new clothes would be made. His ready interpre~
tation of signs showed a considerable share of reflection. He used
natural signs, all addressed to the sight of those with whom he
conversed. "\.Yhen hungry, he approaches his mother or sister,
touches them in an expressive manner, carries his hand to his
mouth, and points towards the apartment or cupboard where the
eatables are usually kept. He is quite alive to proper and regular
behavior ; his sister expresses her satisfaction or displeasure by
different manners of touching his head or shoulder. Gentle tap-
ping is a sign of satisfaction ; a quick slap, of displeasure. He
indicates riding on horseback by raising his foot and bringing the
fingers of each hand together under the sole, in imitation of a stir-
rup. "\Vhen he wants to go to bed, he inclines his head sidewise,
as if to lay it on a pillow. He indicates a shoemaker by imitating
with his arms a shoemaker's motions in pulling his thread ; so also
a tailor by the motions made in sewing.
From the preceding facts it follows, that .Mitchel's mind displays
a great share of native strength, and is destitute only of the vehi-
cles of its exhibition, the eyes and the ears.
It is certainly a great pity that he received no education, since
none of his powers are dormant. By means of touch he might
have been taught many artificial signs ; but the internal activity of
his mind is lost to those around him, and consequently to the study
of mankind.
A similar case of a girl exists in Cambridge. She became blind
and deaf at the age of three years, is now about ten years old, and
shows various feelings and intellectual faculties in a high degree.
EXTERNAu
- SENSES. 269
I saw another case of this nature in the institution for deaf and
dumb at Paris. It was a female, and at first only deaf and dumb.
She received the usual instruction of the deaf and dumb, and learn-
ed to write before she lost her sight. She then continued to con-
verse with her other companions by signs adapted to the touch.
She could indicate her mental activity by the signs she had learnt,
or in writing into the hands of those with 'vhom she conversed, or
others would take her hand and make therein the signs she under-
stood.
A fourth of these remarkable cases which deserves the attention
of philosophers, exists in the American Asylum, at Hartford, in
Connecticut. Her name is Julia Brace. I shall first extract from
the American Annals of Education, published by Mr. Woodbridge,
Vol. I. Oct. and Nov. 1831, the following notice, and then add
some interesting facts, which were related to me when I saw her
in August, 1832.
'She is the eldest of seven children, and born at Hartford,
June 13, 1807. At four years of age she was seized with the
typhus fever, on Monday, November 29, 1811, and on the Sat-
"'
urday following she became blind and deaf. She remained dan-
gerously ill for four or five weeks. During the following summer,
she was again twice sick, but her health became established, and
has continued excellent ever since.
' Before her illness, she had not only learned to speak, but to
repeat her letters, and to spell words of three or four syllables,
and for some time after the loss of her sight and hearing, she was
fond of taking a book, and spelling words and the names of her
acquaintances. She retained her speech pretty well for about a
year, but gradually lost it. For three years she could still utter a
few words. One of the last of these was mother.
' Julia was at first unconscious of her misfortune. She seemed
to imagine that a long night had come upon the world, and often
said, it 'Will never be day. She would call upon the family to
light the lamp, and was impatient at their seeming neglect even to
give her an answer.
270 PHRENOLOGY.
' One day, in passing a window, she felt the sun shining warm
upon 11er hand ; she immediately held out her hand, and pointed
with delight to indicate that the sun shone. From the January
after her illness until the following August she would sleep during
the day, and be awake through the night, and it was not until
autumn, by taking great pains to keep her awake during the day,
that she was set right. She was afterwards as regular in this res-
pect as other persons.
' At first, after her recovery, she was not inclined to walk, but
after leading her with a stick, the apprehension which might have
deterred her, gradually vanished, and she began to grope her way
unassisted, like other blind persons. She gradually returned to the
previous habits and occupations of her childhood.
' From the period of her recovery, she seemed to perceive the
return of the Sabbath, and on Sunday morning would get her own
clean clothes and those of the other children. The intervention
of a day of fasting or thanksgiving confused her reckoning, and
does so even now, and some time elapses before she gets right.
If her mother was reading, she would find a book and endeavor
to do so.
' During the first winter after her recovery she was irritable
almost to madness. She would exhibit the most violent passion,
and use the most profane language. The next summer she be·
carne calmer, and her mother could govern her to some extent, by
shaking her and stamping on the floor in sign of disapprobation,
and by patting her head when she conducted well. She is now
habitually mild, obedient, and affectionate
' She has a strong feeling of propriety. After her illness she
was unwilling to wear clothes, and would pull them off violently.
At length her mother took one of her frocks and tried it on her
sister, with a view of altering it for her. Julia took the frock and
put it on herself. Later she cried for new clothes, and became
very fond of dress.
' Since the summer after her illness, she would take care of
her little sisters, she would wander with them in the field, gather
EXTERNAL SENSES. 271
whortleberries, knock down apples from the trees, pick flowers,
and make them into nosegays for the infant.
' She would take care of her sisters, and, hold and attend them
while they were infants, but when young she refused to take care
of either of her twin-brothers. Later she was kind to her brothers
and sisters, and when she received a present, was always fond of
sharing it with them. If it was an orange, it was divided very
exactly into equal portions ; if an apple, which she knew to be
more common, she used less care.
' The poverty of her mother often obliged her to go out and
work for the whole day, and the children were left in charge of
Julia on such occasions. If they went to the cupboard or drawers
when her mother was absent, she would stamp on the floor (the
method which necessity had taught her mother to use in restrain-
ing her) shake them, and if possible keep them away. "\Vhen any
mischief was done, she would often administer immediate punish-
ment. At one time, while giving the chiJdren their bread and
milk, the bowl was broken : in imitation of what she supposed
would have been done by her mother, she whipped the little of-
fender. But feeling of her eyes immediately, and finding that she
was crying, she took her into her arms and endeavored to soothe
her with kindness and caresses.
' Her ideas of the right of property were very strong. "\Vhen
any thing is presented to her, she will not retain it until she has
given it back, and by its being returned, or by some sign of prop-
erty, she is convinced that it is given to her. Her countenance
then exhibits marks of pleasure ; she remembers it for months,
and will bring forth the present whenever the giver comes. It
has been remarked, that, notwithstanding the state of poverty in
which she passed her childhood, when she was subsequently brought
into houses where tempting articles of food and dress were con-
stantly thrown in her way, she has never been known to take the
most trifling object without leave. She was equally tenacious of
her own property, and felt deeply any invasion of her rights.
' Once in her childhood, one of her three little brothers had
272 PHRENOLOGY.
disturbed her toys in the drawer. She arraigned them before the
opened drawer, as a tribunal, pointing them to the mischief they
had done, and was determined to find out the rogue, but not one
of them would either confess or expose the offender. After feeling
of each of them awhile, in order to find which trembled, without
success, being satisfied that they intended to deceive her, and that
one of them at least was guilty, she adopted what seemed design-
ed as a stratagem to disappoint them. She gave eaeh one a box
on the ear, and in order that the offender should not escape, she
then felt of the mouths of all three of them. She found two of
them crying: this she seemed to think a proof of innocence, and
in order to assuage their grief, she gave them sugar, and showed
them kindness, as tokens of their acquittal of the charge; but the
third, who gave no signs of sorrow, received an additional portion
of cuffs.
' While the inmate of a school, observing that a great part of
their time was occupied with books, she often held one before her
sightless eyes, with great patience, as if to wait for some influence
upon her. In reference to this point, the spirit of government was
even extended to her favorite kitten. She would spread a news-
paper before it, then putting her finger on its mouth, and perceiv-
ing that it did not move like those of the scholars when reading,
would shake the animal, to express displeasure at its indolence and
obstinacy.
'From a child, she entertained the idea that the tallest ought to
rule; and when shorter persons than herself in the houses where
she has lived, bade her to do, or not to do any thing, she would
respectfully let them know that she was the tallest. This idea, it
is supposed, she entertained till she was grown taller than her
mother; but she has now given up this childish notion.
' It is obvious that her only means of perceiving external objects
are the smell, the taste, and the touch. The touch is her chief
reliance, and enables her to distinguish every object with which
she has been familiar, sometimes by means of her fingers, and
c;ometimes by her lips and tongue. But her smell also is surpris-
EXTERNAL SENSES. 273
ingly acute, and often enables her to ascertain facts. which seem
beyond her reach.
' She has now been a resident for several years in the American
Asylum, at Hartford, where she is supported in part by the volun-
tary contributions of visiters, and in part by her own labors in sew-
ing and knitting. A language of palpable signs was early establish-
ed, as a means of communication with her friends. This has been
much improved by her intercourse with the deaf and dumb, and is
now sufficient for all necessary purposes. Her countenance as
she sits at work, exhibits the strongest evidence of an active mind,
and a feeling heart within, and thoughts and feelings seem to flit
across it like the clouds in a summer sky. A shade of pensiveness
will be followed by a cloud of anxiety or gloom; a peaceful look
will perhaps succeed, and not unfrequently, a smile lights up her
countenance, which seems to make one forget her misfortunes.'
I observed the same appearances in her countenance when I saw
her; and she was on that day, I was told, in good spirits. Her
whole history shows spontaneous activity of mind, and the manifes-
tations of the special powers, as admitted in Phrenology. From
the above-mentioned facts we perceive her love and care of chil-
dren, her combativeness in punishing her brothers and sisters; her
love of approbation, her cautiousness, her acquisitiveness, conscien-
tiousness, reverence, benevolence, order, time, and reflection.
She knows the inmates of the institution, and has chosen one girl
for her particular friend. She was always fond of childish sports,
and of playing tricks to others, in concealing things, or in shutting
them up in rooms. "\Vhen fatigued of being exhibited to strangers,
she endeavors to get out of the way. She delights in order, clean-
liness and dress. At the day of my visit her head-dress was most
carefully arranged, and it was her own doing. She examines with
her hands the hair-dress of other ladies she meets with, and imitates
the 'fashion. Since she has been in the American Institution, only
once she was disobedient to the superintendent, the Rev. l\lr.
Weld, but being placed into a narrow room she was completely cor-
rected. She possesses great manual dexterity, and like other blind
35
274 PHRENOLOGY.
pers~~s-sh~- threads her needle with her tongue and lips. She
knows many more palpable signs than James Mitchel, yet I think
that both might have been taught to converse with others by the
touch, or written signs, on a more extensive scale. At all events,
these unhappy individuals furnish an evident proof that there are in-
nate dispositions, and that the external senses are not the laws of
the affective and intellectual faculties.
II. The external Senses do not produce the means of their
own g1·atijication.
The five external senses receive and propagate impressions
which affect them agreeably or disagreeably; but they cannot pro-
duce the means of their own satisfaction. Animals, therefore, are
confined to the enjoyment of those impressions presented to them
by nature. They prefer the taste of one thing to that of another;
they prefer particular odors, colors, sounds, but they cannot, at
will, command or excite impressions calculated to gratify the sen-
ses of smell, sight, or hearing. 1\lan alone is capable of this; he
alone, in order to procure pleasure by the medium of his senses,
cultivates gardens, and establishes manufactories of perfume ; he
alone plants flowers to gratify his smell, and to delight his eye.
:!\'Ian, however, has not conceived these acts by means of smell;
for this sense is much more acute in the ox, horse and dog, which
cultivate no flower-gardens, and which have no rose-water. In the
same way, ~nimals have f'') cookery, and no mnsic::~l instruments;
they cannot voluntarily charm their palate or their ears; for the same
rL 3on, th~y have no artificial laogL~agf:3, and no tradition. "'\Ve
shall afterwards see that man possesses superior intellectual facul-
ties, which produce the artificial enjoyments of the external senses
and internal perceptive powers.
EXTERNAL SENSES 275
iii. Individual Faculties, 'which are erroneously attributed to
the external Senses.
To the Sense of Feeling or Touch.
I. The consciousness we havl3 of the existence of the external
world is considere~ as a prcrot;ative of touc!1. It is said, that man
by moving finds lii.lits or resistance to his progr~ss, and is thereby
advised of external existences. Our vision however finds limits as
well as our motions, and, consequently, we should perceive the ex-
ternal world by sight, even though \Vf' did not by touch. ]\lore-
over, the sentient power resides not in the external organs, h,~t
in the mind. I cannot, tnerefore, conceive why the sentient
being shot,ld r.ot r~cognise impressiuns ';]ade on it in ~very way,
mediately as well as immediately, by an obstacle to farther vision,
as well as by an imped;1nent to its endea\.:ors to act. In either
case there is only an external imp1:ession. For what reason, too,
does the sentient being, assumed unconscious of the external 'vorld,
make any motion whatever? "\Vhy do insects and many animals
aet as soon as they are born ? The tortoise and duck, scarcely
hatched, run towards the water which they have never touched.
How do they distinguish water from solid bodies ? How can young
birds be acquainted by touch with those branches upon which they
perch for the first time on leaving their nests ?
Farther, all nature opposes this hypothetical opinion of the
schools. l\Ian and animals are naturally much more disposed to
transfer their internal sensations, aroused by external objects~ to
the outward world, than to concentrate external nature within them-
selves. "\Ve see and hear from without, at least it seems so to us.
The infant, without being instructed, turns his head towards the
side whence come the sound and light which impress his ears and
eyes. An affiux of blood to the optic nerves makes us see flashes
of light, and to the auditory nerves tingling or other peculiar sounds.
In our dreams we see landscapes, persons and objects, with which
276 PHRENOLOGY.
we are familiar ; we hear music, we walk in peculiar places, and
have a thousand different sensations. The insane hear heavenly
choirs, see angels; and many looked on as sane consider their in-
ternal sensations as realities, they distinguish the figures of their
genii, see spirits, &c. These and similar phenomena take , place
inwardly, but are, by the mind, transferred to the external world.
The faculty of separating impressions from without and the ex-
ternal world, from the internal sentient power, cannot be attribu-
ted to any external sense ; this faculty is of a much higher nature,
and exists internally as well as the one which says, ' I feel hence
I am.' Perceptions of impressions, recognition of the faculty
which perceives, and reflections upon this acquired knowledge, are
very different things. The internal faculty which knows the ex-
istence of external objects, acts by means of all the external sen-
ses ; the sense of touch has no preference, no monopoly. De Tra-
cy* has demonstrated, in a very excellent manner, that the sense
of touch has not the prerogative of producing the notion of the ex-
ternal world. He says the nerves are merely agitated by various
impressions ; the auditory, optic and olfactory, as well as the tan-
gent nerves. For what reason, then, should these last alone excite
the idea of an external cause or existence ?
2. The second prerogative attributed by Buffon, Condillac, Cu-
vier, Dumas, and others, to the sense of touch is, that it alone pro-
duces the ideas of space, dimensions, extent, distance, figure, num-
ber, motion and rest. But we have only to examine the functions
of animals in a cursory manner, to prove this assertion quite incor-
rect. Animals which acquire no, or very imperfect, information
from touch, still judge of distance, figure, and plurality. If the swal-
low and bat catch insects on the wing, while flying with very great
swiftness, do they not measure distance ? 'Vhen young birds leave
their nests for the first time, do they fly against houses and trees,
instead of sitting down upon a branch? Do we observe young an-
imals which have never yet left their native place, run away indif-
* Ideoligie, tom. i. p. 114
EXTERNAL SENSES. 277
ierently, whether they perceive an enemy afar off or near at hand ?
Animals born with imperfect eyes, or altogether blind, can neither
see external objects nor measure distance ; but those which are born
with perfect eyes see immediately, and measure distance, figure,
motion and plurality exactly. The partridge, quail and duck avoid
fi·om birth every object which lies in their way. It is, therefore,
evident that the sense of touch has not the prerogative of producing
ideas of extent, distance, form, and motion. Locke, indeed, de-
monstrated this truth long ago ; and it is certain that not only touch
and vision, but also hearing and smell, may excite ideas of distance,
direction, motion and plurality. Animals turn towards the wind,
and judge of the direction in which impressions come.
Ideas of extent, form, distance, motion and plurality, thus excit-
ed by different senses, is to me an evident proof that none of them
belongs immediately to any external sense ; for I consider it as an
axiom in the philosophy of mind, that no special faculty manifests
itself by means of two or several organs. Every special faculty
is attached to some one particular organ. My conclusion is con-
firmed by facts and direct proofs. The faculties of knowing and
measuring space in general, and of distinguishing distance, forms,
number, motion and rest, bear no proportion to the external sen-
ses to which they are attributed, either in animals or in man ; these
faculties are internal, and produce their respective sensations with-
out being excited by the senses of seeing or touch ; birds migrate ;
dogs and pigeons find the places to which they are attached again,
without being acquainted with the interjacent country or objects ;
and birds build nests like those of their kind without instruction ;
these acts follow from internal faculties, and without any external
excitation from touch or sight. Finally, the physiology of the brain
shows that there exists particular organs of powers, the manifesta-
ions of which are in proportion to their respective apparatuses.
These faculties, therefore, must be separated from the functions of
the external senses, and attributed to particular internal organs.
3. The third supposed prerogative of touch is, that it is the
surest of all, and the rectifier and con-ecter of the other senses. In
278 PHRENOLOGY.
treating of the external senses in general, I have demonstrated that
no sense acquires its faculty by means of another, but that each has
it from nature independently ; that all are subject to particular
laws ; and that their functions are perfect or imperfect according to
the organization of their proper apparatus. Thus, from this con-
sideration it follows, that touch neither produces the faculties of
the other senses, nor rectifies their errors. Indeed, it is easy to
prove, both by the healthy and the diseased state, that touch is not
surer than any other sense, and that it does not rectify the other
senses, any more than it is rectified by them.
If we cross two fingers, and touch a round body, a pebble, for
instance, or a pea, we seem to feel two bodies. A thin and flex-
ible piece of paper between the fore-finger and thumb is not felt.
In various diseases individuals fancy they receive impressions from
without ; they feel warm or cold, tickling, creeping, and other sen-
sations ; just as they hear voices, which have no external existence,
and are produced by an internal cause. Whoever will reflect on
these considerations, combined w'ith those exposed when speaking
of the mutual rectification of the senses, may perceive that touch
has no superiority over any other sense.
4. I have already said, that some physiologists and philosophers
believe that the sense of touch produces many of the instinctive
labors observed among animals, and the mechanical arts among
men. But neither are the instinctive labors of animals, nor the
mechanical arts of man, in any proportion to the acuteness of
touch, or to the perfection of the external instruments. A great
number of insects exhibit peculiar instincts before their antennre
or instruments of touch are developed. .Many animals have those
instruments to which peculiar faculties are attributed, without being
possessed of the corresponding functions. Would it not be more
natural to suppose that apes and monkeys should possess the pow-
er of constructing, bec.ause they have hands, than that the beaver
should build because it has a tail ? Monkeys, indeed, have hands,
they can put wood on a fire, they also are very sensible to cold
and warmth; but have they understanding enough to keep up the
EXTERNAL SENSES. 279
fire ? According to the opinion announced, insects, crawfish, lob-
sters, and especially cuttlefish, ought to have exact idea~ of exten-
sion, of size and of geometry, in consequence of their numerous
and perfect organs of touch.
The external instruments, moreover, are often similar, while
the functions are quite different. There is a great variety in the
form and texture of the cobwebs, which different species of spi-
ders make to catch flies. What diversity of structure in the nests
of birds whose bills are similar? Animals of the same genus vary
much in their food, and in their manner of living. The large tit-
mouse builds its nests in hollow-trees ; the long-tailed titmouse in
clefts of branches ; the bearded titmouse among reeds ; the tit-
mouse of Poland suspends its delicate and curious dwelling from a
slender bough ; the cuckoo again, though endowed with all the re-
quisites for building, constructs no nest whatever. The hare and
rabbit have feet exceedingly alike, yet the hare lies in the open
fields, while the rabbit makes a burrow.
On the contrary, similar acts are performed by animals with a
variety of dissimilar instruments. The proboscis is to the elephant
what the hand is to man and to the monkey. It is by means of
the bill that the swallow attaches her nest to the wall, and that the
thrush cements the interior of her's, while it is by means of his tail
that the beaver covers his hut with mud. The hands of monkeys,
and the feet of parrots and squirrels, are certainly different ; yet an
hold up their food when they eat; the hog ploughs the earth with
his snout, and the dog scratches it with his feet, in digging up truf-
fles. In the same way similar internal faculties produce similar
effects by means of perfectly different instruments.
Again, man and animals exhibit many facolties which cannot be
considered as effects of external instruments. 'Vho, for example,
can show, from any external organ, that crows should live in soci-
ety, and magpies in pairs ? that the cuckoo and chamois should be
wild by nature, and the pigeon and goat tameable ? that bustards
and cranes should place sentinels ? that ants should gather provi-
sions. &c.?
280 PHRENOLOGY.
Finally, even in the human kin·d, there is no proportion between
manifestations of .faculties and perfectiQn of external instruments...
If man O\~e his art~ to his)1ands, why do not idiots invent? Why'
do painters drop the pe;1cil, sculptors the chisel, and a-rchitects -t~
rule- and compass, as soori as their understanding is fatigued ? and
why do many bring for.th stupendous works .by the .assistance of
crippled hands or of stumps? Who can .measure the architecturaL
talent from the conform~tion of the hands ? These considerations
prove that the external instruments do not produce the facuhies.
I do not however deny thei'r importance ; I should even admit
some relation between internal facul~es and external instruments.
Without instruments the intemal fac11lties could not manifest them-
selves ; without muscles, the will could not move a limb; without
hands, or some equivalent, we could not seize any object ; carniv-
orous animals could not destroy without claws and teeth ; without
these instruments, therefore, they could not subsist. Moreover,
as the instruments are more perfect, the manifestations of internal
faculties are also more perfect. Nevertheless, it is unquestionable
that the propensities and intellectual faculties which make use of
the external instruments, must be derived from within.
We have still to consider whether or not acuteness of feeling
produces the instinctive labors of animals and the mechanical arts
of man. Experience proves thaf it does not. There is no pro-
portion between fineness of skin or acuteness of feeling, and man-
ifestation of the faculties of the mind. Some individuals have rough
hands and an obtuse feeling, and yet produce surprising works.
No artist ever judged of the capacity of his pupils from this acute-
ness of touch. It is even still a question whether man's sense of
touch is more acute than that of animals. It is generally believed
to be so, because his skin is destitute of hair and covered with a
very tliin epidermis only, while the lower animals are clothed with
}Iair or feathers. There are some tribes, however, which have ne>
hair, as the elephant, the Turkish dog, snails, &c; and whose sense
of feeling is very acute. Other animals, though covered with hair,
immediately feel the smallest insects which alight on their bodies~
. :·
EXTERNAL ~ENSES. 281
Finally, it is even impossible to conclude that because the skin is
.covered with hair, feeling. is less· acute. Sometimes in diseases
lpe 'hairy scalp of man grows extrem~ly sensible, and. the least
mo"vem(mt oi the hair gives excessive pain; .the epidermis is thick-
~st at the points of our finget·s, yet there feeling is considered as
the most acute.. Conseq!lently, the nerves of touch, though cov-
• ered with hair, may be even more sensible than when destitute of
such a covering, and it is by no· means oqvious that the feeling of
man' is more acute than that of animals.
The wisdom-then of Solon, Socrates, and Plato, and the master-
ly productions of Rumer, Eu"did, Raphael, and others, were not
the result of their mere hands; por are the surprising instincts of an-
imals the effects of their antennre, feet, teeth, proboscis, or tails.
I, however, repeat, that it must be allowed that the external instru-
ments, though they are not in proportion to the internal faculties,
cannot be in contradiction to them; and ·that the internal facul-
ties perform their functions with greater facility and more accu-
racy as the external instruments are more perfect. Therefore, the
hand of man, which is composed of so many movable parts, ca-
pable at e\T
ery moment of changing their direction, and of grasping
external bodies, is fitter for appreciating tactile qualities than the
feet of birds invested with scales, or of quadrupeds covered with a
horny substance. Yet it is neve-rtheless certain, that the external
instruments are never the cause of the internal faculties.
5. It may be asked, whether feeling produces ideas of consisten-
cy, of hardness, of softness, of solidity and fluidity, of weight and
resistance? I think it does not. For the mind, to examine these
qualities of bodies, employs the muscular system, rather than the
sense of feeling properly so called. There is also no proportion
between the faculty of measuring such qualities, and the sense of
feeling, or the muscular system. Moreover, the sense of"feeling
being lost, if the muscular power remain, we may perceive weight
and consistency. Now the muscles are excited by internal causes,
and therefore ideas of weight, resistance and consistency are, in
my opinion, the result of some internal faculty. I once for all
36
282 PHRENOLOGY.
observe generally, that when any function results from the active
state of an external sense, the faculty which conceives the idea is
internal. 'Ve have seen above, that the faculties which take cog-
nizance of extent and size, form and number, are internal. In this
manner we may also conceive how internal faculties employ differ-
ent external senses, if that be possible, and how sometimes they
can make use only of a single sense. The mind, for instance,
wishes to move the body from one place to another, and this can
be done only by means of the muscular system ; the mind wishes
to perceive music, and this also can be done only by means of the
auditory nerve ; but the mind wishes to perceive the size or form
of a body, and this may then be done either by the sense of sight
or by that of feeling. Notwithstanding these modifications, it re-
mains always certain that every reaction of the mind upon ex-
ternal bodies has its cause in some internal faculty, while the
sensations, which result from the passive state of the five external
senses, constitute their immediate sphere of activity.
Taste.
No feeling and no intellectual faculty having _
been supposed to be
derived from the sense of taste, there is no occasion to speak of
this sense here.
Smell.
A great number of physiologists ascribe to the sense of smell
the surprising faculty by means of which many animals discover
and return to their dwellings from very great distances; but there
are many facts of this kind which cannot be explained by smell
alone. A dog, for example, at the end of several months, and
from a distance of more than a hundred leagues, finds his former
dwelling and master, though he has been carried away in a coach ;
though it bus rained repeatedly during this interval of time ; though
he has gone by water and comes back by land ; though he is obli-
EXTERNAL SENSES. 283
ged to make circuits instead of taking the nearest way ; and though
the wind has changed in all directions. Pigeons, Ii!{ewise, though
transported to a distance of twenty or fifty leagues, and shut up for
several weeks, return to their former cotes ; the falcon of Iceland,
confined for many rnc•nths, often flies a\\'ay in the first moment of
its liberation : these, and similar phenomena, cannot be explained
by the sense of smeJI. It is necessary to admit anotLer s:tperior
faculty, sometimes called the sixth sen~e.
!fearing.
A very common opmwn is, that music and language are results
'Of the sense of hearing. But this is not the case. I shall first
show that this sense cannot produce music. Le Cat, Ackermann
and others, think that the cochlea is the most important part of the
ear, and the principal instrument of the musical faculty. The
latter Las accordingly maintained that man alone had the cochlea.
Different quadrupeds, however, possess this part even more perfect
than man, as sheep, cats, dogs and hogs, and these animals certain-
1y are not fond of music. Hence, the opinion of Ackermann and
of Le Cat is erroneous. Besides, birds, whose ear is almost des-
titute of this part, sing. Le Cat, aware of this contradiction, an-
swered, that the whole skull in birds is more sonorous than in
quadrupeds, because it is less covered with muscles; he thinks that
if nature had joined a cochlea in addition, they would have been
still more sensible to melodious sounds, and as passionately fond
· of music as almost all animals are of food ; but, continues he, as
hirds are destitute of the cochlea, their musical talent depends more
on their throat. ·Le Cat is mistaken : there is a great number of
singing birds whose skulls are covered proportionately with more
muscles than those of some quadrupeds, the ant-eater, for instance.
The heads of the goldfinch, bulfinch, chaffinch, linnet, &c. , are
covered with considerable muscles, while that of the green wood-
pecker, which certainly is not a melodious bird, is almost destitute
of them. The heads of the hoarse March thrush, of the monoto-
284 PHRENOLOGY.
nous cuckoo, of the miserable chatterer of Bohemia, &c., are not
covered with more muscles than the skull of the sweet mocking
bird, of the melodious black bird, and of the vineyard thrush, with
its delightful song. If we suppose that the whole skull of birds is
sonorous, the only consequence to be drawn from it would be, that
a weak sound is greatly strengthened in them ; but \vhy certain
birds are so fond of singing, and why some nightingales continue
their song till they die from exhaustion, would be quite inexplica-
ble.
Hearing in general cannot produce music, because there is no
proportion either in animals or in man between it and musical
talents. :1\lany hear very acutely, and are yet insensible to music.
Among birds, the female hears as well as the male; if hearing then
produce music, why does not she also sing ? Among men there
are some whose hearing is very obtuse, and whose talent for music
is very considerable. Finally, hearing cannot produce music, be-
cause hearing perceives only tones which are already produced.
The first musician produced music from an internal impulse, and
that music of course he hau never previously heard. Singing birds,
moreover, which have been hatched by strange females, sing natu-
rally and without any instruction the song of their species, as soon
as the internal organ of the faculty is active. Hence the males of
every species' preserve their natural song though they have been
brought up in the society of individuals of different kinds ; hence,
also, musicians who have lost their hearing continue to compose ;
hence likewise the deaf and dumb have an innate feeling of meas-
ure and cadence.
Le Cat confounds the crying of dogs at the sound of a hunting
horn, and the stamping and neighing of horses at the blast of a
trumpet, with the faculty of music. If it wt,re, we must allow
that fishes, reptiles, and even spiders which are allured by sound,
are sensible to music. Buffon, Dumas, Bichat, and others, think
that the talent of music depends on the equality of the power of
hearing with both ears. If, however, inequality of power in the
ears sufficed to destroy the perfection of the musical ear, a good
EXTERNAL SENSES. .285
musician would be extremely rare ; for by far the greatest number
of men hear better with one ear than with the other. Dr. T.
Brown compares the pleasure of music in the ear, with tickling in
the nerves of touch. Now some persons are ticklish, others are
not. So some persons have a musical ear, others have not. This
is mere assertion; and refuted by observations already mentioned.
We therefore maintain that hearing does not produce music. It is,
however, necessary to perceive and to execute it; but this con-
sideration belongs to the chapter on the sphere of activity of each
faculty, and here I intend only to prove that hearing cannot pro-
duce music.
Some authors derive music and the vocal pmvers of birds from
tJ1e larynx. But if the larynx gives the instinct to sing, why do
not all animals endowed with this part manifest the faculty ? Cu-
vier has also found that the larynx of many birds which sing, and
of others which do not, is similar in structure. What difference
is there between the throats of the females and males of the same
species ? Is there even in man any proportion between the agree-
ableness of the voice and musical talents ? Nay, have not many
individuals great musical talent and little voice ; and do not others
sing very agreeably without excelling in music ? Music, therefore,
is neither the result of hearing nor of the voice.
It is also a very common opinion that hearing alone, or hearing
and voice conjointly, produce the faculty of speech. The best
way of refuting this error is to inquire in what language consists,
and how it is produced ? Language in general is the medium by
which sensations and ideas are communicated, and this may be
effected by sounds, gestures, or other signs. Language, farther,
may be divided into two kinds : natural and artificial, or conven-
tional.
It is a natural law that the internal faculties of man and animals,
as soon as they are active, manifest themselves by the media be-
tween them and the external world,-the five external senses, and
muscular motion. These external manifestations take place accord-
ing to determinate laws, and though modified in every species of
286 PHRENOLOGY.
animal, they are always conformable to certain kinds of sensations
or ideas ; they constitute the natural language. The horse neighs,
the lamb bleats, the cow lows, the child cries, &c. according to
their wants. This natural language is general, because all animals
require to communicate their sensations, were it only for sexual
purposes.
Animals have only natural language, which consists partly of
sounds and partly of gestures, like the natural language of man.
But man has, besides his natural language, the faculty of produc·
ing arbitrary signs, whether sounds or gestures. Animals, on the
contrary, are destitute of the pO\ver of producing arbitrary signs,
though they have also that of learning those of man. I shall, here-
after, consider the faculty which produces arbitrary signs, and that
which learns them. I here intend only to prove that neither hear-
ing nor voice produces the faculty of speech, and that both stand
in the same relation to language as they do to music, that is, that
they are only certain intermedia or means of manifestation. There
are animals which can pronounce words, imitate various sounds,
and hear very well, but which, nevertheless, have no arbitrary
language. Some imperfect idiots also hear and pronounce with
facility the words taught them, but cannot maintain a conversation
Their mode of communication or their language becomes consistent
in proportion to their internal faculties. :Moreover, if orators and
poets become insane, their eloquence is changed into incoherent
raving. It is therefore evident that the faculty of speech does not
result primitively from the voice and hearing.
Besides the facult!es of speech and music, there are others still
which act upon the external world by means of hearing, and which
are commonly attributed to this sense. Here I must mention an
error \vhich was once very common, and into which even Kant
and Herder have fallen ; namely, that it is impossible to commu-
nicate any abstract notion to the deaf and dumb. Le Cat says,
that the deaf are more unfortunate than the blind, because many
truths are heard and very few are seen. Herder even thought that
the deaf and dumb imitate all they see done, whether good or evil.
EXTERNAL SENSES. 287
These and similar erroneous opinions result partly from the com-
mon mistake, that our sensations and notions are produced by the
external senses, that nothing exists in the mind except what passes
by them, and partly also from supposing that arbitrary vocal lan-
guage produces sensations and ideas. It is, however, certain, that
all the internal faculties may exist without hearing ; and, conse-
quently, that deaf persons in whom this sense alone is wanting may
manifest all the other faculties ; they are destitute only of the means
of communication which hearing supplies, and are, therefore,
obliged to make use of others. Hence they impart their sensations
and ideas, that is, they speak by gestures.
Sight.
"'\Ve have still to examine whether sight produces any intellectual
faculty. It is commonly supposed that the art of painting is de-
rived from the sense of sight ; and it is certainly true that eyes are
necessary to perceive colors, as are ears to perceive sounds ; but
the art of painting no more consists in the perception of colors,
than music in the apprehension of sounds. Sight, therefore, and
the faculty of painting bear no proportion to each other. The
sight of many animals is more perfect than that of man, yet they do
not paint ; and even among mankind, the talent of painting cannot
be measured by the acuteness of sight. Great painters never at-
tribute their power to their eyes. They say, it is not the eye, but
the understanding which perceives the harmony of colors.
From all these considerations it follows, that many intellectual
faculties, which have been attributed to the five external senses, do
not belong to them.
288 PHRENOLOGY.
ON THE SPHERE oF AcTIVITY oF THE ExTERNAL SENsEs.
The external senses destined to bring man and animals into com-
munication with the external world may be divided into two sorts.
By means of the first two in number, we are acquainted with ex-
ternal bodies when they touch the sentient organs immediately.
These are touch and taste. The second, including the remaining
senses, perceives remote bodies. I do not say that perception or
sensation can take place in a sense which is not affected by some
immediate impression : this is an indispensable condition ; but to
say that we are acquainted \vith remote bodies and their qualities,
is not to say that \Ve perceive without impressions. This latter
phrase would be contradictory and absurd. "'\Ve perceive remote
bodies either by particles detached from them, and carried to a
sentient organ, as to the olfactory nen'e, or we perceive them by
intermedia, as light and air. In both cases it is certain that man
and animals become acquainted with remote bodies and their qual-
ities.
In general only five external senses are spoken of, but it is ne-
cessary to speak with greater precision. I therefore first separate
the general expression, se·nsation, from the determinate sensation
of hunger and thirst ; secondly, from voluntary motion, to which
voice belongs ; and in the third place, from the sense of feeling as
well as from touch. I consider the word sensation as an expres-
sion altogether general. Every act of consciousness, or every
perception of an impression, whether external or internal, is sen-
sation. Hunger and thirst, then, constitute a particular class of
sensations attached to particular nerves ; and voluntary motion
ought not to be confounded with the sense of feeling as is generally
done. For many years I have been convinced, by anatomical,
physiological and pathological proofs, that the nerves of motion
and feeling are quite different. This difference is spoken of by
Herophilus, who believed that it must exist, as voluntary motion
EXTERNAL SENSES. 289
is sometimes impossible, while feeling remains or is even increased
in acuteness, and as feeling is oftentimes lost while voluntary mo-
tion continues. In modern days, Reil has stated that the medulla
of the nerves produces sensation, and their investment motion ; but
entire nerves-nerves consisting of both these parts-are distrib-
uted to the muscles in \vhich there is motion, and to the skin in
which there is sensation. Besides the pathological proof of the
difference between the nerves of motion and of feeling, consider-
ed in all my publications, since 1815, the physiological and anato-
mical reasons made me believe in the existence of these two
sorts of nerves. As to the details of this discussion and of my
claims to priority of this doctrine, I refer the reader to the third
section of my work on the Anatomy of the Brain. Thus, the func-
tions of the muscles exist independently of the five external senses,
and are only combined with these that they may be aided in ac-
complishing their offices. From the preceding considerations it
results, that the greater number of functions, commonly attributed
to the senses, do not belong to them, but depend on the existence
of internal faculties. The external senses as intermedia of the ex-
hibition of mental powers, which they are, in fact, have certain
functions that may be called mediate, ·while those which the senses
themselves suffice to perform, may be styled irnntediate. In other
words, the immediate perceptions depend on the external senses,
while the me9iate functions permit the acquisition of determinate
ideas conceived by internal faculties.
According to the observations in the first section of this work,
on sensibility, the brain seems to be necessary to every kind of
perception, even to that of the immediate functions of the exter-
nal senses ; but it is not yet ascertained, though it is probable, that
one fundamental power, inherent in a particular part of the brain,
knows and conceives, as sensations, all the varied impressions made
on the external senses. Some phrenologists think that each exter-
nal sense has a peculiar portion of brain for this end, and that the
combined action of its nerve and of this cerebral part is necessary
to the accomplishment of its functions. That the nerve of taste
37
.290 PHRENOLOGY.
and a portion of brain, for instance, are necessary to perceive
savors ; the olfactory nerve and a cerebral part to distinguish odors,
&c. I do not believe that consciousness happens without brain,
but I see no reason to surmise that the immediate functions of each
external sense require a particular portion of the brain in order to
be recognised as determinate sensations.
Let us now consider the immediate functions of each individual
sense.
Immediate Functions of the Sense of Feeling.
Feeling is the most extensive of all the senses ; it is continued
not only over the whole external surface of the body, but even
over the intestinal canal. It produces the most general percep-
tions of pain and pleasure, sensations of temperature, of dryness and
moisture. All its other functions which procure notions of existing
objects and their relations, are only mediate. In my opinion, even
the ideas of roughness and smoothness belong to an internal facul-
ty, namely, configuration. The mediate function of the sense of
feeling may be called touch, of which the sphere of activity is very
considerable and important : it is particularly combined with the
nerves of voluntary motion, and the two kinds together may assist
the functions of all internal faculties, as well affective as intellectual.
Hence the reason why nerves of feeling and motion are most inti-
mately connected with the organs of the affective and intellectual
faculties. The five external senses, it may, indeed, be readily con-
ceived, should be in connexion with those cerebral orgaus which
they particularly assist ; and farther, as the nerves of motion and of
feeling may aid all internal faculties, that they should be in connex-
ion with all the internW. organs, just as the nerves of feeling and
motion, mutually aidant, are connected with each other.
EXTERNAL SENSES. 291
Taste.
rraste is the second sense by means of which man and animals
are made acquainted with external bodies, when these touch the
sentient organ immediately. After feeling, this sense seems to be
the most general and the most indispensable of all to living beings
which consciously take food. It seems also that it is active early
in life. The fifth pair of nerves, branches of which are distributed
to the membrane covering the palate, the velum pendulum, the
pharynx, and chiefly to the tongue, is of great size in new-born
children, as are the nerves of motion and feeling also.
An opinion commonly prevails that the acuteness of taste de-
pends not only on the nervous papillre of the tongue, but also on its
flexibility, softness and moisture. Ackermann, 'vho derives the
perfection of the human mind from the acuteness of the five senses,
asserts that the nerves of taste are proportionally more considerable
in man than in animals ; that the tongue of man is the most flexi-
ble and soft, and that its netTous pnpill<e are covered with the
finest skin. In many animals, however, as in the dog, monkey,
&c. the skin of the tongue is as thin and fine, and its structure as
flexible as in man. The mobility of the tongue has, indeed, less
relation to the taste than to the function of speech. The principal
condition to an acute taste is certainly large gustatory nerves spread
over a considerable surface ; lmt in this point many animals surpass
man. In some, the lingual nerve as well as the whole fifth pair, is
much larger than in the human kind ; the nervous papillre of the
tongue are also more numerous and their apices more extensive.
Though the tongue of several species is covered with a very rough
skin, they distinguish and select certain plants conformable to their
taste, and reject others which are contrary to it. Moreover, when
we see that eating is to animals the most exquisite and permanent
pleasure, and that great numbers pass almost their entire existence
in eating or ruminating, ,,.e shall with difficulty deny them a taste
more perfect than that of man.
292 PHRENOLOGY.
I cannot agree with those naturalists, who maintain that the taste
of birds is very obtuse. Blumenbach bas shown that the organ of
taste is large, and the sense very exquisite in the duck. A great
number of birds do not swallow their food suddenly; the titmouse,
for example, laps it. The greater number of birds which live
upon insects, seeds, and berries, crush and bruise them. If we
present the canary bird, the bulfinch, or nightingale with different
sorts of food, each of them will choose that which is most agree-
able. If we give ants' eggs to young nightingales, many rather die
of hunger than eat, because unacquainted with that sort of food ;
and if we even put them into their bill, they commonly drop them ;
the eggs, if crushed, however, are swallowed with the greatest avid-
idity ; it is evident from this that their taste is very acute. Even
the birds which swallow their food suddenly, as fowls, pigeons and
others, distinguish different berries and seeds with the extremity of
their bill. If we mix the seed of vetches with that of robinia
caragana, pigeons and fowls will pick them up indiscriminately, but
will always throw away the latter. These birds therefore like oth-
ers, prefer one sort of food. Tame storks, accustomed to catch
rats and mice thrown towards them, jerk these several times into
the air and catch them again in their bill~ in order to crush before
swallowing them. If we cast a toad to them, however, they will
catch still, but immediately drop it. They also eat bees and large
flies greedily ; but regularly reject any other insect which does not
please their palate. Such also is the case with swallows and other
birds \vhich live on insects.
These observations render it improbable that every insoluble
body is insipid, or that every substance to affect the organ of taste
must be dissolved in the mucus which covers the tongue. In ma-
ny physiological writings, the axiom of chemistry, corpora non agunt
nisi soluta, is applied to the organ of taste. ' The tongue,' says
Richerand, 'is covered by a mucous, whitish yellow, or bilious
slime. This covering, more or less thick, prevents the immediate
contact of sapid particles, and we have only a false idea of tastes.
All aliments seem bitter if a bilious disposition exist, or insipid if
EXTERNAL SENSES. 293
there be a superabundance of mucus.' The tongue, however, it
appears, may perceive many spirituous, oleaginous, or other im-
pressions produced by seeds and' insects, without their being dise
solved and mixed with the mucus which covers it.
~I. Dumeril, Professor of Physiology at Paris, maintains (in an
.essay on the smell of fishes) that fishes are destitute of taste ; this
sense, according to him, being supplied by that of smell. Fishes,
says he, have not tbe hypoglossal nerve, and the continual pressure
of the water must blunt the sensibility of the lingual nerve. Now
supposing that fishes were destitute of the hypoglossal nerve, it
would not follow that they had no taste ; for the hypoglossal serves
only for the motion of the tongue, while a bra.."lch of the fifth pair
which exists in fishes, is the sole organ of taste. The tongues of
many fishes are covered with numerous nervous papillre, and at the
point are even moveable, flexible, and soft. Hence there is not
only no anatomical reason to deny taste to fishes, but it is even
from their possessing this sense that they may be taken with a bait.
Again, if the pressure of water blunt their taste, why should it not
blunt their smell also ? But pressure produces no such effect ;
the sole of the foot does not lose its sensibility, though pressed on
during a long life. In short, this opinion of Dumeril seems more
remarkable for its singularity than for its correctness.
The very lowest tribes of the animal world must also have nerves
of taste. Insects prefer different kinds of food, though their gustae
tory nerves have not yet been discovered.
Neither in man nor in animals can taste be considered as an in-
fallible guide to the wholesomeness of the body tasted. Unsavory
articles may be wholesome, while substances which please the pal-
ate may act as poisons.
The taste of the sick often affords an indication in distinguishing,
or in aiding nature in the cure of disease; no good physician, how-
ever, will have unbounded confidence in it. The sense of taste is
necessarily in most intimate relationship with the whole digestive
system. I have already mentioned that this sense is modified in
different kinds of animals, and in different individuals of the same
294 PHRENOLOGY.
kind, even in different ages, and in the healthy or diseased state.
As the organ of taste is the first developed, so it seems to lose its
activity last. Old persons commonly love good cheer, which is
also necessary for them. When sight has failed, when the ear no
longer does its office, vvhen the skin has bec.ome stiff and almost
insensible, the aged may often be seen eating and drinking as heart-
ily and with as much pleasure as their grand-children.
The sphere of activity of this sense is confined to sensations of
taste; that is, it perceives only impressions of savor. JJiediately,
it assists nutrition. The nerves of taste have the most intimate
connexion with those necessary to the motion of the jaws, with
those of the organ of voice, and with the glossopharyngeal nerve.
Accordingly the organs on which these nerves are expanded exert
the greatest mutual influence.
Smell.
By means of smell the external world begins to act upon man
and animals from a distance. Odorous particles detached, inform
them of the existence of particular bodies. Several physiologists
regard smell as a completion or a finer and higher degree of taste.
But th~ system of the olfactory nerve is particular. It is, as it
were, the explorer and the guide of the sense of taste, and must
exist very low in the scale; insects are attracted by odors, but
their olfactory nerve has not been discovered.
Dumeril, supposing fishes to have no taste, regards smell as its
substitute; and in support of his opinion maintains, that odoriferous
particles cannot be transmitted by water. "\Ve have already seen
that the organ of taste exists in fishes, and it is not probable that
nature has produced any organic apparatus without an appropriate
object. It is besides strange to maintain that odoriferous particles
are not transmitted by water, as fish of various sorts, lobsters, &c.
are taken by bait. It is remarkable that this sense does not exist
in cetaceous animals, which occupy so high a place in the scale of
being. Dumeril thinks also that their taste supplies the place of
smell.
EXTERNAL SENSES. 295
It is admitted that many animals excel man in acuteness of smell;
their olfactory apparatus being much larger. But this occurs in-
differently among the most stupid and the most intelligent animals
-in oxen and hogs, in dogs and horses.
Cuvier maintains that the olfactory nerve is larger in carnivotous
than in herbivorous animals; but there is no relation between the
acuteness of smell, and the instinct to eat flesh or vegetables. Man,
\vho is omnivorous, and the sea-calf which lives only on fish, have
both very small olfactory nerves. The turtle, ..mole, sheep, ox,
horse, &c. however different their food is, have an olfactory nerve
proportionally larger than the wolf, dog, tiger, &c. Comparative
anatomy, therefore, as also comparative physiology, oppose Cu-
vier's opinion. Many hundreds of plants supply herbivorous
animals with food, while the carnivora live commonly upon a small-
er variety of flesh; to distinguish their food, therefore, the organ of
smell in herbivorous should be larger than in carnivorous animals.
:Moreover, if nature endowed carnivorous animals with a very acute
smell for the purpose of discovering their prey, it is improbable
that she refused the weak victim an equal advantage to enable it to
detect and escape its enemies.
Odors act powerfully upon the brain ; we, therefore, apply
stimuli to th~ olfactory nerves, which often revive sensibility in
cases of suspended animation.
The smell in its immediate functions perceives odorous particles
emanating from external bodies, without any reference to the ob-
ject. All functions besides are mediate. It assists the faculty
which conceives the existence of the world, and informs man and
animals of the existence of food; it assists farther individual pro-
pensities, as amativenes, alimentiveness, adhesiveness, philogene-
tiveness, &c. To that effect the olfactory nerve seems to have a
particular connexion with the anterior lobes, and convolutions of
the brain situated sideways, outwards, and backwards. The nose
is near the mouth, taste and smell bearing close relations one to
another.
.296 PHRENOLOGY.
Hearing.
Hearing is the second sense which makes man and animals ac-
quaihted with remote existences, and is the first which perceives
external objects by an intermedium, the air. The auditory nerve
is found from man down to the cuttle-fish; farther it has not been
distinguished, though several animals, lower in the scale, are not
destitute of hearing. The auditory apparatus is more complex as
animals are more perfect, and this is the case both with the ex-
ternal and internal ear. Except Ackermann, all physiologists allow
that many animals surpass man in the faculty of hearing. That
physiologist, however, deriving human intellectual superiority solely
from the external senses, asserts that the hearing of man is the
most perfect, on account of the cochlea of his ear, which according
to him is the most essential part, and is wanting in animals. But
this assertion may be refuted both anatomically and physiologically.
First, it is certain that the organ of hearing is more perfect in
many animals than in man; that their external ear is larger, more
moveable, and capable of being turned in all directions and oppos-
ed to soniferous undulations. .Moreo'ver, the auditory apparatus
of many animals has large cavities which inerease the sonorous
vibrations, and which cannot be confounded with the mastoid pro-
cess of man ; in some, these are empty ; in others they are divi-
ded into compartments; and in the ox are composed of many con-
centric partitiOns. The auditory nerve is also much larger in
many animals, as the ox, horse, stag, sheep, &c. than in man; and
the cochlea not only exists among them, but is in many even more
perfect than in the human kind. Hence, it is anatomically proved,
that the organ of hearing is in many animals larger and more per-
fect than in man. The same may be demonstrated physiologically.
In observing the functions of animals, we may convince ourselves
that many of them perceive sounds which nre imperceptible to
man.
The sense of hearing is not active in new-born children, but it
EXTERNAL SENSES. 297
improves by degrees, and in proportion as its apparatus is devel-
oped. In the same way the auditory power declines in propor-
tiOn as the vigor of the organ decreases. Several authors maintain
that the deafness of old persons depends on the blunted sensibility
of the auditory nerve ; they think that repeated impressions exhaust
sensibility. It is, indeed, true, that sensibility is blunted and ex-
hausted by too great exercise ; but I think that, in the ordinary
state of health, dulness of hearing in old persons depends on the
decrease of the auditory apparatus. In the young and healthy, the
auditory nerve is expanded in a humor which occupies the cavities
of the internal ear ; this in the aged diminishes at the same time
that the nerve itself decreases. Hence, when Pinel, during the
severe winter of 1798, caused the skulls of several old women who
had lost their hearing to be frozen and then opened, he found the
cavities of the internal ear perfectly empty, while they were filled
with ice in younger persons who had died with this sense unim-
paired.
The immediate functions of the sense of hearing are confined to
the perception of sounds ; yet it assists a great number of internal
faculties which are commonly attributed to it. It potently aids the
affective, as well as the intellectual faculties of space, individuality,
tune, speech, and through the instrumentality of these, all the other
powers of the mind. The auditory nerve, indeed, has a nearer
connexion with the organs of the feelings than of the intellectual
faculties ; it embraces the nervous bundle of the cerebellum, and
is connected with the vocal nerves ; the voice called forth by com-
mand of the feelings, as well as the natural language of their activ-
ity, is more energetic than when summoned by the intellectual
faculties to aid them in the expression of their desires.
We may conceive that the sense of hearing bears relation to the
internal faculties which act by its means ; precisely as even exter-
nal objects are in harmony with internal faculties, or internal facul-
ties with external objects ; as the laws of vibrations, for instance,
though they exist in external vibrating objects, are conformable to
the laws of the internal faculty of tune ; or as size, number, and
38
298 PHRENOLOGY.
succession, which exist in the external world;' 8.re in relation to
certain internal faculties. Yet this sense, like all others, presents
infinite modifications in different beings, even of the same species.
Sight.
Sight is the second sense which informs man and animals of re-
mote objects by means of an intermedium, light. Those who
attribute the excellence of man's intellectual faculties to the per-
fection of his senses, maintain that his sight is better than that of
animals. They consider this superiority as a result of the greater
distinctness with which they say objects are seen by man ; to the
transparency of the diaphanous parts of his eye ; to the irritability
of his iris, and to the position of his crystalline lens. Richerand
even believes that the pigmentum nigrum impedes and disturbs the
distinctness of vision ; and that perhaps on this account animals
have false and exaggerated ideas of the power of man. Experi-
ence answers these errors. The iris of many animals is very
moveable, and they see during both the day and night, and to
greater distances than man. The falcon perceives the heron, still
invisible to man ; the eagle, beyond the reach of human sight, sees
a hare upon the ground ; the turkey and fowl recognise the far dis-
tant bird of prey, and warn their surrounding broods, when it is
impossible for man to distinguish the enemy. It cannot be denied,
therefore, that the sense of sight is more acute in many animals
than in man.
None of the senses has o<!cupied physiologists and philosophers
more than sight and touch ; but these have also been the subjects
of the greatest number of errors. Many false notions have been
n.~.i are still current, in regard to vision. Dr. T. Brown repro-
duces various misconceptions of his predecessors.
This sense has been said to acquire its faculty either by touch
or by habit. But I have already proved, in speaking of the gen-
eralities of the m:ternal senses, that no one acquires its faculty
from any other or from habit. Vision depends on the organizatiorn
EXTERNAL SENSES. 299
of the eye; and, according to this, it is weak, energetic, good or
bad. Some animals enter the world with perfect eyes, and they
see ac~urately from thJ first. Tbe butterfly and honey-bee fly on
the first attempt through the fields, from flower to flower ; and the
partridge and chicken as soon as they have 1eft the sheH, run through
s~ubLles and corn, while other ani!nals born blind distinguish size,
shape, and distance of bodies, only by slow degrees. This is ihe
case in the humau kind. I cannot insist too forcibly on this truth ;
every sense has its own laws, and its functions depend on the state
of its organization. In the lovking-glass we must see ourselves
and other objects enbrged, diminished, lengthened, shortenerl,
multiplied, near, distr..,_.t, and so forth, according to the laws of t~1e
reflection of light.
Some also maintain, that without the sense of touch our ~,;yes
would represent all objec~s reversed and dm1
ble : and that the ex-
ternal world would feem to be in the eyes, because it is painted on
the retina. Objects are actually reversed in the eyes ; but, as
Be~keley and Condillac have elucidated, they are not painted on
the retina, that nervous expansion is only impinged on by the rays
of light. How or why we see objects upright, is not, however,
explained. An internal faculty makes animals acquainted with the
external world, and they are more disposed to transfer all internal
sensations and ideas of external bodies to the outward world, than
to concentrate impressions of these inwardly. According to a law
of nature, the impressions of our senses are not merely transferred
into the external world, but are even carried to the places whence
they come. We deem the sonoroas body to be in the direction
from whence come vibrations of the air. And if animals take
wind, they do not look for the impressions received in a direction
opposite to that whence they proceed. Impressions of light are
also referred to the place whence they emanate; and, consequently,
such as arrive from above are referred upwards, those from below
downwards, and the object is thus seen in its right position.
No one recollects having in his infancy seen any object reversed,
:and natural history presents no such example in animals. Accord-
300 PHRENOLOGY.
ing to the absurdities into whiCh speculators have run, young birds
ought to take the root of a tree for its top. It is unfortunate that
natural philosophers and physiologists in examining the functions of
the senses, have confined their reasonings to man alone, thus ex..
eluding animals entirely. I have now spoken of vision being single,
although the impressions are double ; of the eye's capacity to dis..
tinguish distance; and shown that animals' inability to measure
distances exactly between themselves and external bodies only oc..
curs when their eyes are imperfect. Thus the organ of vision has
1ts peculiar faculty, whose manifestations depend on the state of the
eye's organization; and vision, like every other sense, is subject to
invariable laws of its own. A straight stick, half plunged in water,
must needs appear crooked. In a vessel filled with water, we see
a stone or other body at the bottom, which is invisible, circumstan-
ces remaining the same, with the exception of the vessel being
empty. The most learned men, notwithstanding all conviction to
the contrary, see images behind the looking-glass, as do parrots
and monkeys. We see our persons reversed in the concavity of
a spoon, our right hand on the left side, and our left on the right ;
but in a conic mirror, convex in the circumference and concave
from the basis to the apex, we see our persons also reversed, but
the right side opposite the right, and the left opposite the left, as
in a common looking-glass. "'\Ve know that the last two in an
avenue of trees are as distant from each other as the nearest, yet
the distance appears to decrease as they are more remote. A
square tower from afar off appears round ; and mighty trees, in the
distance, seem no larger than small bushes at hand. All these and
similar conceptions are necessary, and in accordance with the laws
of optics.
Those who reproach the sense of sight with committing the
errors I have refuted, call to their aid the experiment of Cheselden
on a person born blind. A$ in Cheselden's own account of the
experiment, there is no mention of double or reversed vision after
the operation, Le Cat therefore said, that these persons were ac-
quainted with the situation of objects by touch, and consequently
EXTERNAL SENSES 301
could not easily be misled by their sight when it was acquired.
I, however, ask why they were not acquainted with the size and
shape of objects ? and why, though feeling informed them that ob-
jects touched not the surface of their bodies, they still seemed to
touch their eyes ? This even happened in Cheselden 's case of
the blind-born individual who underwent the second operation twelve
months after the first ; and who, consequently, was already acquaint-
ed by the one eye with external bodies, and with their size and
shape ; yet the testimony neither of his touch nor of his sound eye
was sufficient to persuade his other eye that portraits were not
elevated objects.
Diderot has very well answered this reproach made against sight.
Pictures, says he, produced the same effect upon savages when
they saw them for the first time. They took portraits for living
persons ; they spoke to them, and were much astonished at receiv-
ing no answer. VVe ought to consider, continues Diderot, that
vision cannot be perfect before the organization is perfect. The hu-
mors of the eye must have become clear, the iris must be conveni-
ently dilatable, the retina neither too little nor too highly sensible,
and the whole eye-ball fit for exerting all the particulars necessary
to distinct vision. He also said very well ; sight is not necessary
in order to be sure by touch that any substance exists ; why should
touch be necessary to sight in order to be sure by sight that the
same thing exists ?
Mr. "\Vardrop's case* of a lady who was blind from the earliest
age, and received sight by the operation of an artificial pupil, when
she had reached her 46th year, confirms every one of my ideas on
*I remain thankful to Mr. Vvardrop, though I cannot help being surprised by
his omitting my name in his paper, read before the Royal Society ofLondon, on the
15th June, 182G, and inserted in their philosophical transactions. He, however,
knew that I indicated the few experiments which were made in order to ascertain
what notions the lady had ofsize, for~, position, color, distance and motion. Meet-
ing me before the house where she lived, he spoke to me of the case., and kindly
offered to bring me to the patient. No one who knows my anxiety about the
knowledge ofiben, will doubt that I immediately availed myself of his kind of-
fer. It was on the third of March, 1826, and, as I was told, fourteen days after
the last operation.
30.2 PHRENOLOGY:
the functions of sight. As Miss D**** could only see with one
eye it was superfluous to ask her about double vision. She per-
ceived external objects, but stated to be in moving aboPt more un-
easy than she was before the operation, from fear of hurting her-
self against the objects. She never fancied that she saw them in
her eye, though she saw their distance very imperfectly. She at
once distinguished large bodies from small ones ; b'!.lt when I saw
her the first time, she seemed unable to discern "ell th0i1· forms.
Variously colored, viz. yellow, red, white, blue, and greenish wa-
fers were shown to her, the different colors produced different sen-
sations in her mind ; and that of yellow was the most agreeable.
It did not seem prudent to fatigue the eye too much, and we con-
fined our experiments to one more with respect to motion. I
placed a glass of water on the table, requesting her to take ir. On
approaching her hand towards and near it, I moved it to a greater
distance ; upon which she immediately said, 'you move it, you
take it away.'
Mr. "\Vardrop and the patient allowed me to see her again on
the 8th of :March. Meanwhile I had marked with ink on paper
several figures of different forms, some of the same form with dif-
ferent size, such as a small and large circle, a small and large
square, &c. She easily perceived the different sizes, and after
having been desired to draw with the finger on her other hand, the
forms she drew under the names long, round, square, similar forms
were shown to her, and she pointed to them exactly. She was
sensible of number. In order to ascertain that she saw the objects
in their natural and not in a r~versed position, nor the right side to
the left, and vice versa, I had prepared a figure larger on one end
and pointed on the other, and as she distinguished the size of both
ends, I bent now the thinner end upward and then downward, and
she indicated each time as the position shown to her was in reality.
Another figure with a thinner end communicated with the pointed
end of the former figure, and she never confounded the left and
rig;ht side with each other. Several differently colored ribbons
were presented to her eye ; she perceived different impressions,
EX:TERNAL SENSES. 303
and gave a decided preference to some of them, to yellow for in·
stance, and then to pale pink. She called the two latter shades
pretty. I relate merely the particulars as I observed them in con·
nexion with phrenology ; the rest of this highly interesting case,
lvhich claims the attention both of physiologists and philosophers,
may be seen in l\lr. "\Vardrop's paper.
The immediate function of sight is confined to the perception of
light. All its other offices are mediate. The eyes may assist all
the external senses, all the affective powers, and all the intellectual
faculties. The connexion of the optic nerve with the brain also
shows that sight chiefly assists its posterior, lateral, and anterior
part.
Thus, the spheres of immediate activity of the five senses are
very limited: feeling perceives only dryness, moisture, and tern·
perature j taste savors ; smell odors ; the ears sound ; and the
eyes light : all their other functions are only mediate, that is, inter·
nal faculties by means of the external senses perceive various im-
pressions, conceive peculiar ideas, recognise the existence of bodies
and their qualities, and again act upon the external world,_by means
of the senses and voluntary motion.
The chapter on the external senses as it is published in the first
volume of the large work, entitled .llnatomical Physiologie du
Systeme, o/c. has been elaborated by the joined exertions of Gall
and myself, during the first years of our stay in Paris. The read-
er will perceive that since that time I have limited the functions of
the external senses, and divided them into immediate and mediate.
304 .PHRENOLOGY.
CHAPTER II.
GENUS II. OF THE INTELLECTUAL PowERs.
Perceptive Faculties.
BY this name I distinguish certain faculties necessary to acquire
those notions of the external world, which the five senses cannot
produce. I shall in the first place make some general remarks
upon the forehead, or frontal region of the brain, in which their
organs are placed.
In comparing one kind of animal with another, and with man,
we find that the forehead is developed in relation to the intellect-
ual functions. Animals are still commonly said to act by instinct ;
there is no doubt, however, that many of them know the objects
which surround them, remember events which have happened, and
modify their actions according to these. An old fox having escap-
ed many snares, and knowing that he is watched, is more cautious,
and far slyer than a young one, in his approaches to the poultry-
yard. A bird, which has had its nest once destroyed, conceives
the necessity of secreting its second more carefully, even of con-
structing it with greater nicety than the first. A dog resists its in-
stinct to pursue a hare, because it recollects the lashing received
on a former occasion for having followed its inclination. Similar
facts might be infinitely multiplied. Those cited prove, that ani-
mals are not subjected to an absolute necessity in their actions, but
that they are in a certain degree intellectual and susceptible of edu-
cation. Now the size of their foreheads coincides with the degree
of their understanding. The brain in animals, low down in the
scale, instead of rising and forming a forehead, is even inclined
downwards. By degrees it becomes horizontal, then elevated,
and forms a forehead of greater or less capacity ; finally, in man,
it is the most largely developed, and expands into a forehead which,
in some cases, even projects beyond the plane of the face. Phys-
EXTERNAL SENSES. 305
iognomists have universally given much attention to the d~velope­
ment of the forehead. Lavater has c.omposed a scale of foreheads
from the frog to the Apollo Belvidere, with a view to prove the
relation between the front lobes of the brain, and the intellectual
operations.
It is a curious fact, that domestic animals have the forehead more
developed than wild ones, and that animals are tameable in propor-
tion as their forehead is developed. The cause of the tameableness
of animals has long been sought after ; and it has been asked,
whether they are tame by nature, or subdued and made subservient
to man by means of his understanding ? It was long believed, and
many philosophers and physiologists still think, that the state of
domesticity among animals is solely the work of man. But this
opinion is erroneous; otherwise why should we find it impossible
to tame every species, though we be better acquainted with their
manners now than were the men of two thousand years ago, and
consequently better· able to adapt external circumstances to effect
this end ? It is indeed possible to tame individual wild animals, a
single chamois, one tiger, and so on, but never the whole race of
chamois or tigers. The hunting tigers of Tippoo Sai·b, wbich
were brought to the tower of London after the fall of Seringapatam,
seemed tame only to their Indian keeper, and to the persons they
had been long accustomed to see ; but they \vere with difficulty
retained so, and ultimately became fierce and untractable. The
young of undomesticated animals, kept in confinement, are always
wild, and fly into solitude ; whilst certain creatures are domestic
against our wishes ; mice every where infest the abodes of man ;
and dogs, in Egypt, regarded as impure and having no master,
nevertheless haunt villages and towns ; never stray far from hu-
man dwellings, and consequently are originally tame and domestic.
Gall speaks of a peculiar organ of educability and tameableness
in animals ; he shows a scale to prove them more tameable in pro-
portion as their foreheads are higher. The latter fact in itself is
true; but Gall's explanation seems to be a mistake. The forehead
is certainly not occupied by a single organ. I think that all the in-
39
306 PHRENOLOGY.
tellectual faculties, as also the feeling of benevolence, contribute to
render animals tameable. Gall himself, in speaking of the organ of
benevolence, says, that animals endowed with it are more docile
and more serviceable than others. I consider all such general
observations on, and comparisons of the foreheads of different ani-
mals, as a striking manner of shewing, that the state of develope-
ment of the front region of the brain coincides with the degree of
the understanding.
All philosophers have made the analysis of the intellectual fac-
ulties an object of their disquisitions, and all physiognomists have
laid great stress on the influence of the forehead. Yet the analysis
of the intellectual powers, however various, even thnt given by
Gall is still very defective, and the determination and description
of their organs are very inaccurate. I have discovered five organs
in the forehead, in addition to those mentioned by Gall, and have
introduced a more accurate delineation of the forehead in general,
and of the greater number of its organs in particular.
The common observer attaches himself to the perpendicular or
retreating state of the forehead, in order to decide about its greater
or smaller developement, and it is a common objection to Phrenol-
ogy that such and such persons have retreating foreheads, and yet
are very clever. The forehead will always appear retreating when
the lower portion is more developed than the upper; yet the
whole forehead may be small, large, or of various sizes. The
same may be said of perpendicular foreheads, which happens when
the upper portion is as prominent as the ]ower. Some perpendic-
ular foreheads are exceedingly small <md shallow, and their mental
dispositions very limited. Hence a perpendicular or retreating
forehead is no fixed indication of ta!ent or its defect.
In order to judge of the size of the fore:head, or of the anterior
lobes of the brain, it is not sufficient to look at persons in a front
view, but it is necessary to view them i:-1 profi1e, since the anterior
lobes, or the organs of the intellectual faculties, begin with con-
sh·uctiveness, where the frontal bone meets the sphenoidal. The
portion from constructiveness forward is the forehead. Now, in a
EXTERNAL SENSES. 307
retreating forehead it may be very long or deep at the lower por-
tion, and a perpendicular forehead may "he very short or sh<JlJOw;
so that the n10ral and 1
)hysical appearances ~"'Orrespond with each
other.
\Vhat I have said of the frontal sinus, in the section on Craniol-
ogy, must be remembered here, as far as the frontal sinuses impede
the examination of several organs of perceptive faculties.
It is a remarkable f<lct, tha! t!Je forehead increases very early,
and continues, wher,. ex~rc!sed, to grow very late in life. I bad
posith·e observations ti1at after the age of thirty-six and forty years,
the forehead has increased an inch in size.
I begin \vith ~onsidering th.;; percepti\'e faculties, and I take tile
following view. Se,·eral make us acquainted \Yith the existence of
individual objects and their physical qualities, others perceive the
different conditions and relations concerning plaCf;, time, nvmber
and order.
Locke and Reid made a distinctio11 between prirr.ary and sec-
ondary qualities of matter. Locke called -primary qualities exten-
sion, divisibility, figure, motion, solidity, hardness, softness and
fluidity; and secondary qualities, sound, color, taste, smell, heat
or cold. Dr. Reid adds, that our senses give us a direct and dis-
tinct notion of the primary qualities in themselves, but only a rela-
tive and obscure notion of the secondary qualities.
Dr. T. Brown is against this distribution of primary and secon-
dary qualities altogether, and admits with Kant, and other philoso-
phers, that all sensations are only relative, and that we never know
the things, or their qualities in themselves.
I also consider all knO\vledge of man, as mere phenomenal ; but
give a new analysis of the powers of sensations and perceptions.
I greatly limit the immediate functions of the external senses, and
adopt various internal powers of perception.
308 PHRENOLOGY.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, WHICH PERCEIVE THE EXISTENCE
OF EXTERNAL OBJECTS AND THEIR PHYSICAL QUALITIES.
XXII. Organ of Individuality.
The first conception our 1mderstanding must have of external
objects is their existence; to acquire such knowledge, the external
senses are not of themselves sufficient, although without an impres·
sion on them this conception cannot be determinate. The organ
of the faculty which procures knowledge of external objects must
therefore be considered the first in respect to the order in which
the intellectual faculties operate accordingly.
I speak, under the name Individuality, of the faculty which re~
cognises the existence of individual beings, which embodies several
elements into one being or. object, as tree, house, man, army,
navy, &c. whose activity and presence are denoted by substantives,
or abstract terms in language, and which in all probability consti-
tutes the personal identity. I acknowledge that objects are insep-
arable from their qualities, and that these constitute objects, but I
think it possible to conceive an existence or entity without know·
ing its qualities, as God, the mind.
Individuality produces what Dr. Reid called perception, as dif·
ferent from sensation, but coextensive with it ; that is, he under-
stood by sensation merely the feeling of the mind, which immedi·
ately follows the impression from \Vithout, on any of our organs of
sense; and by perception the reference of the sensation to its ex-
ternal corporeal cause. Certain particles of adverse matter, for
instance, act on the olfactory nerve, and produce a peculiar smell;
this is sensation, according to Dr. Reid, but when the peculiar
sensation is referred to an object, for instance, a rose, then there
is perception. This is the effect of individuality.
· ·This faculty takes cognizance of all existences, objects, things,
and beings. Aristotle introduced the images, ideas or phantoms
in the mind, in order to explain the action of sensual organs on the
ORGAN OF INDIVIDUALITY. 309
mind. This conception is exploded. Impressions alone are ad-
mitted, since sounds and odors can give no images. The figura•
tive and metaphorical language has done harm in philosophy as well
as in theology. This faculty prompts those who have it strong, to
use their senses with reference to what is around them. It makes
them fit for and inclined to observation ; it enables them to see and
know the particularities or individualities. This faculty, there~
fore, is indispensable in every practical line; it prompts to the
study of natural history, geology, mineralogy, botany, &c. It is
strong in persons, who cultivate any branch of natural science with
success, it predominates in those who are satisfied \Vith individual
notions of objects without aiming or arriving at principles. It is a
fundamental quality of good servants, and good card-players. It
assists artists in the knowledge of the particulars of their art; for
instance, musicians in the knowledge of the individual notes and
keys; an architect in having the particulars of a building present; a
mathematician to remember the parts of his calculations. In short,
it gives presence of mind of individualitie~, and reality to our con~
ceptions.
When it is excessively active, it is like all other powers, liable
to be abused, and originates great errors in philosophy, in person-
ifying phenomena and abstract ideas, ns motion, life, ignorance,
wisdom, attention, memory, judgment, &c. &c. "'\Vhen it is small,
the individual fails to observe external objects. He may visit a
house, and come away, without knowing what objects were in the
room. Such a person walks in the streets, or through the coun~
try, and observes nothing. His external senses may be in perfect
health, but they are not called into activity; when this observing
power is feeble, when this faculty is inactive, persons may be dis-
posed to deny the existence of external objects, and not to see
objects before them.
The skeptical philosophy of Pyrrho and Bishop Berkeley, is ac6
counted for by the defect of this faculty. It is impossible to those
who have it strong to deny existence, in the same way as a person en-
dowed with great causality cannot imagine an effect without a cause.
310 PHRENOLOGY.
The cerebral portion, on which this faculty depends~ is-situated
immediately above the root of the nose between the eyebrows; its
greater developement enlarges the forehead at this spot; its elon-
gation contributes to the beautiful form of nose called Grecian.
This organ is developed in early age, and gives to young chil-
dren the great tendency to observe the external world, and to be-
come acquainted with it. It is therefore advisable to follow this
indication of nature, and to make them acquainted with external
objects. .
Some nations hav·e this organ stronger than others ; the English
ha,Te it larger than the Scots in general, and the French again have
it larger than the English.
Dr. T. Brown (Lect. xxv. and xxvi.) says, that by smell, taste,
sound or sight alone, we could not become acquainted with the
existence of corporeal substances ; and that to touch, which pro-
cures us the ideas of extension and resistance, we are indebted to
refer our sensations to a bodily cause. 'If we had,' says he, 'no
sense but that of smell, no sense but that of taste, no sense but
that of sound, no sense but that of sight, we could not have known
the existence of extended resisting SL~bstances, and the~·efore could
not have referred the pleasant or painful sensations of those classes
to such external causes, any more than we refer directly to an ex-
ternal cause any painful, or pleasing emotion, or other internal
affection of the mind.'
Dr. Brown had no idea of individuality, nor of the other per·
ceptive powers as detailed in Phrenology.
XXIII. Organ of Configuration.
Gall was desired at Vienna to examine the head of a little girl,
who had extreme facility in recollecting persons ; he only found
that her eyes were pushed laterally outwards, and that she had a
certain squinting look. He then spoke of the organ, whose large
size is indicated by distance between the eyes, as that of the sense
or memory of persons. Some individuals have indeed an eminent
ORGAN OF CONFIGURATION. 311
power of recollecting those persons they have once seen, while
others possess such talent in a very slight degree. This difference
is perceptible in very early life, and is very remarkable in many
tribes of animals. Insects recognise individuals of their own kind
and of their peculiar family. Honey-bees distinguish those of
their own hive from those of others. In a flock of sheep all lambs
know their mothers ; elephants and dogs have occasionally display-
ed very striking powers of recognising masters and keepers after
having been separated from them for a long time.
I consider the faculty under discussion in the following manner :
to me there seems to exist an essential and fundamental power,
which takes cognizance of configuration generally, and one of
whose peculiar applications or offices is recollection of persons ;
for persons are known by their forms. I separate the faculty
which appreciates configuration from that of individuality, since we
may admit the existence of a being without taking its figure into
consideration. Individuality may be excited by every one of the
external senses, by smell and hearing as well as by feeling and
sight, while the two latter senses alone assist the faculty of config-
uration. It is this power which disposes us to gi\'e a figure to
every being and conception of our minds ; that of an old man, to
God ; to death, that of a skeleton, and so on. The knowledge of
configuration, or form, is essential to animals and men, \vith respect
to their connexion with external objects. This power is active
from the earliest age. Children are delighted with pictures, and
at the age of maturity, pictures, dioramas, panoramas, cosmoramas,
are still objects of delight. Nature, therefore, is always the best
book to read.
The organ of configuration is situated in the internal angle of
the orbit ; if large, it pushes the eye-ball towards the external angle
a little outwards and downwards. (Pl. x. .fig. 2. xxiii.) It varies
in size in \vhole nations. .Many of the Chinese I have seen in
London had it much developed. It is commonly large in the
French, and contributes to bestow their skill in producing certain
articles of industry. Combined with constructiveness, it invents the
312 PHRENOLOGY.
patterns of dress-makers and milliners. It leads poets to describe
portraits and configurations, and if in a high degree of developement,
it induces those who make collections of pictures and engravings to
prefer portraits. It is essential to portrait-painters. Crystallogra-
phy also depends on it; and to me it appears, that conceptions of
smoothness and roughness are acquired by its means.
Dr. T. Brown thought that the notion of figure belongs to that
of extension, and at the same time that we cannot separate length
and breadth from color.
XXIV. Organ of Si=e.
Notions of the dimensions or size of external objects seem to me
peculiar. There is no relation between such conceptions, and the
senses of touch, or sight, or any internal faculty of the mind. On
the other hand, the idea of dimension cannot be confounded with
that of configuration, for bodies of similar forms may be of very dif-
ferent sizes, and vice versa; and these two sorts of ideas are not
acquired with like facility. Some easily judge of form and cannot
distinguish the proportions of size.
The power of size is important to geometricians, architects,
carpenters, mechanicians, portrait painters, and to every one who
measures dimensions. It measures the size of the heavenly bodies
and of terrestrial objects. In union with locality it procures the
conceptions of perspective. Its organ is placed at the internal
corner of the superciliary arch on both sides of individuality.
Dr. Brown ascribed the notions of length in different directions
to the remembered succession of muscular feeling.
XXV. Organ of 1Veight and Resistance.
Treating of the sense of feeling, I mentioned that it could not
excite ideas of consistency, density, softness, and hardness, nor
of weight, lightness, heaviness or resistance. These notions de-
pend on an internal operation of the mind and require a particular
ORGAN OF WEIGHT AND RESISTANCE. 313
organ. This faculty, then, procures the knowledge of the specific
gravity of objects, and is of use whenever weight or resistance are
worked upon with the hands, or by means of tools ; in sculpturing,
carving, turning, polishing; in lifting up any weight by the lever,
or any machine ; in resisting the pressure of the opponent in box-
ing ; in calculating the resistance of a current, the tide, or pressure
of the wind ; to direct a ship in certain directions ; in using the
bow with dexterity; in keeping the hands, arms, and body, steady
in shooting ; in touching the strings or cords of any musical instru-
ment with accuracy ; it is therefore necessary to musical perform-
ers, be it on the harp, violin, violincello, pianoforte, organ, &c.;
to eminent engineers, as far as the knowledge of momentum and
of statics is concerned; to able printers, particularly of copper and
lithographic plates ; to clever workmen in mosaic, &c. Mr. Simp-
son, in an essay, published in the Phrenological Journal, vol. ii. p.
410, proposes the name equilibrium for that of weight, considering
that it was essential to our animal existence that we should have an
instinctive perception of gravitation, operating constantly and inde-
pendently of reason. That state of rest, says he, which the law
of gravitation constitutes the natural state of all bodies, solid, fluid,
and aeriform, is called their equilibrium. The simplest animal
motions, what are they but alternate disturbance and restoration of
equilibrium ? The land animal walks and runs, and avails itself of
the resistance of the earth ; the bird flies by its instinctive percep-
tion of the resistance of the air ; the fish, using its fins and tail,
instinctively perceiving the resistance of the water. Some degree
therefore of the power of adapting motions to the law of gravitation,
some power over equilibrium must be possessed by the whole ani-
mated creation, for without it it is plain they must perish.
In my opinion the essence of the intellectual faculties is kno1.oing,
and not instinctive action, and the lower animals do without know-
ledge many things which man knows in doing them. An ant may
find an object too heavy, and calls upon others of its tribe for assist-
ance, in order to move the object to the common abode, without
any notion of weight; in the same way as a squirrel may sit down
40
314 PHRENOLOGY.
on its hind legs and tail whilst eating, without any perception of
equilibrium. I find throughout nature a difference between regular
actions and the powers of knowing them. Accordingly I consider
the power in question as destined only to procure notions of gravity
and resistance, and of equilibrium ; farther, such notions may in-
fluence various actions, and give greater dexterity to perform them ;
for instance, to keep the equilibrium in standing, walking, and
gymnastic exercises; but the impulse to swim, fly, or stand upright,
seems to me diff~rent from the knowledge of doing so in conse-
quence of the laws of gravitation. The perception of the equili-
brium belongs to this faculty, and its disturbed or diseased state
seems to produce giddiness, and even seasickness, as J\fr. Simpson
first observed. Moreover, this faculty may enable us to be easy
in looking over precipices and from high situations, and the effect
of intoxication may be attributed in a great measure to its deranged
functions ; its sphere of activity, however, appears to reach beyond
the meaning of the word equilibrium, and I still prefer the term
weight. The organ is small, and situated externally of that of
size, above the orbit towards the superciliary ridge.
XXVI. Organ of Coloring.
The qualities of bodies already examined are the most essential,
and the knowledge of them is also more important to man and ani-
mals than of the quality of color. In speaking of vision, I have
shown that it is insufficient to bestow excellence in coloring upon
the painter. The eyes, it is true, perceive the rays of light, and
are affected agreeably or disagreeably by their different modifica-
tions or colors, but they do not conceive the relations of colors,
their harmony or discord, and have no memory of tints. To prove
this, we have only to compare, in man and animals, the faculty of
perceiving light vision with the faculty of conceiving colors. I
am not certain that animals are destitute of the faculty which dis-
tinguishes color, though they do not paint ; for there is a great
difference between producing, and being capable of perceiving.
ORGAN OF COLORING. 315
Animals have the senses of smell and taste, but cannot furnish ther.t
with enjoyments, and they may possibly perceive different colors,
their harmony or discord, and yet be incapable of painting.
Certain persons are almost destitute of the power of percetvmg
colors. I know a family, all the individuals of which distmgmsh
only black and white; Dr. Unzer, of Altona, could not perceive
green and blue ; and at Vienna I saw a boy who was obliged to
give up his trade of a tailor, because he could not distinguisn dif-
ferent colors. I have observed similar instances at Paris, Dub-
lin, Edinburgh, and London. Those who do not perceive colors
have sometimes a very acute sight, and readily appreciate the other
qualities of external bodies, as their size and form. There is
nothing more common than that a painter should be an admirable
draughtsman and a vile colorist. Thus, as the faculty of perceiv-
ing and employing color is not in proportion to the sense of sight,
nor to the understanding in general, on the other hand, sight may
be entirely lost, and the memory and judgm~nt of colors preserved.
The blind traveller, .Mr. Holman, does not feel the least impres-
sion of the strongest light, hut he recollects the various colors
he has formerly seen, and judges of their harmony and discord.
Hence there must be some particular faculty which cognizes, re-
collects, and judges of the relations of color. It is necessary to
painters, dyers, enamellers, and to all who are occupied with colw
ors. It is this faculty that is charmed with the flower-garden and
the enamelled meadow, and sometimes shows an extraordinary
energy and correctness. Goethe relates, that the workmen in
mosaic at Rome, employ fifteen thousand varieties of colors, and
fifty shades of each variety, from the lightest to the darkest, hence
in all 750,000 shades. He adds, that this profusion of colors is
sometimes insufficient.
The faculty which takes cognizance of colors, is more ac.tive m
women than in men, generally speaking, and in certain nations
more than in others. Those of the East seem to possess it in a
high degree. It is, however, necessary to distinguish in this fac-
ulty, as in every other, great activity from perfect action or good
316 PHRENOLOGY.
taste. 1\loreover, it is to be remarked that this faculty perceives
the harmony of colors, but does not understand how to adapt co1or·
ing to the subject of a picture. This depends on superior intellec·
tual powers. In the first acceptation, many women are good col-
orists, and have attained eminence ; but in the second, as in all
other departments of the arts, they have been surpassed by men.
The organ of coloring is situated in the middle of the arch of
the eye-brow. Its greater developement is proclaimed by a full
and much arched eye-brow ; this external sign, however, is less
certain than when the arch is drawn outwards and upwards, so that
its outer part is more elevated than the inner. (Pl. xi. fig. 1. xxvi.)
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES WHICH PERCEIVE THE RELATIONS
OF EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
XXVII. Organ of Locality.
Though Gall's eyesight was very good, yet he could not always
discover or recognise the places 'vhere he had been before. One
of his fellow students, called Scheidler, on the contrary, had a
surprising facility in recollecting localities, and never forgot the ex-
act place where he haci in his rambles discovered a bird 's nest,
and this without making any mark to guide him. As Gall, at a later
period, began to collect busts in plaster, he moulded his fellow-
student Scheidler, remarkable for his excellent local memory, and
distinguished above the eyebrows, on either side of the mesial line
of the head, a protuberance strongly marked. He then made ob-
servations on every person endowed with a similar faculty. He
one day met a woman in Vienna, who had the protuberances cor-
responding to those presented by Schiedler's forehead, so extremely
developed, as almost to amount to a deformity; on speaking to her
he learned that she had the greatest propensity to travel ; that she
had left her parents at Munich, solely to see foreign countries ; that
she never lived long in the same house, because she liked change
of place ; and that her greatest pleasure consisted in travelling.
ORGAN OF LOCALITY. -
317
The pictures and busts of great astronomers, navigators, and ge-
ugraphers, as of Newton, Cooke, Columbus, &c. present a great
developement in the situation indicated. (Pl. xi. fig. 2. xxvii.)
This is the faculty which prompted Columbus to seek a new con-
tinent, and which makes and stimulates every zealous traveller.
Bloede, of Dresden, speaks of one Augustus, of Schneeberg, who
had at one time been a miner, and who with a kind of ridiculous
eagerness which prevents him from staying longer than one or two
days at the same place, runs every year over the greatest part of
Sa."\:ony, Lusatia, and Silesia ; he has a fixed station for every day,
like migrating birds, and brings the various landlords, who assist
him, compliments and salutations from all their friends ; he then
gives the details of his last journey, with the greatest volubility,
keeping his body fixed, .and his eyes shut. Bloede assured us,
that this odd personage has really two large protuberances in the
situation mentioned. At Torgau, in Saxony, we saw a blind man in
whom the same part was much developed, and who told us that he
liked to hear geography and travels spoken of, and that he had often
dreamed of foreign countries. l\Ir. Holman, the blind traveller, has
this organ very large, and he told me that he knows London better
than the servant who accompanies him, in order to avoid carriages and
unknown obstacles. In going through the streets of a town, he con-
ceives and forms in his mind a geographical plan of it. The seat of
the organ of locality has been proved in man by many thousand facts.
Animals must also be endowed with it, otherwise they could find
neither their progeny not· their dwellings, after they had been oblig-
ed to leave them in quest of food~ The faculty indeed is very
active in certain animals, while others are almost destitute of it.
This dissimilarity is not only perceptible in different kinds, but
also in different individuals of the same kind. One dog loses him-
self almost immediately after going out ; another finds its usual
abode and master from an enormous distance. There was a dog
transported in a carriage from Vienna to Petersburg, which six
months afterwards returned to Vienna. Another transported from
Vienna to London, still found means to come back, by attaching
318 PHRENOLOGY.
himself to a traveller in the packet·boat, and going with him to
Mentz, whence he set off by himself for Vienna. Another carried
from Lyons to :Marseilles, and shipped to Naples, nevertheless,
came back to Lyons by land. Another found his former master
in Suabia, after having left his new master in Hungary. These,
and many other similar facts, prove that they are wrong who de-
rive such a power from the sense of smell ; for smell (:ould aid
none of the dogs whose history I have given. Besides, these
creatures do not always return by the nearest way. Moreover,
the sense of smell cannot lead back pigeons to their cotes from
which they had been transported to the distance of t\venty leagues
and more, shut up in a bag. The falcon of Iceland, though long
confined, the first time it is flown at a heron, often mounts verti-
cally into the air, seems to distinguish its native regions, and takes
the direction of the north. It is equally impossible to maintain
that such a faculty is an attribute of the eyes, because there is no
proportion between its energy and the excellence of vision. It
must therefore be the appanage of an internal organ.
This faculty of locality being innate and active by internal excite-
ment, explains a phenomenon observed among animals, many spe-
cies of which, chiefly birds, as swallows, storks, starlings, quails,
nightingales, and others, migrate at certain periods of the year.
These creatures also return, not only to the same climate and to
the same country, but to the same spot, to the same window,
chimney, or tree. The migrations do not result from scarcity of
food alone, for though it is true that the faculties are excited by
external wants, and that certain birds leave one country in quest of
food in another, yet the faculties must exist before they can be
stimulated. Besides, every faculty may be active without excite-
ment from external want, and this is rendered evident by the cir-
cumstance that certain birds migrate before food is wanting, and
come back before it is to be found. Moreover, if migratory birds
be confined in a cage and fed abundantly, they become unquiet at
the periods of their flight. Finally, why do not all birds leave
their ordinary dwelling when food is scarce or wanting ? These
ORGAN OF LOCALITY. 319
considerations show the necessity of admitting an internal and in-
nate power as a cause of all the phenomena.
The special faculty of its organ and the sphere of its activity re-
main to be determined. It makes the traveller, geographer, and
landscape-painter, recollect localities, and in union with the faculty
of size, gives notions of perspective, space and distances. It
seems to me, that it is the faculty of locality in general. As soon
as we have conceived the existence of an object and its qualities,
it must necessarily occupy a place, and this is the faculty that con-
ceives the places occupied by the objects that surround us. It
not only procures this kind of knowledge, but it is also fond of it ;
and as their cause, explains all the phenomena of which I have
spoken. Notions of localities and places are not the same as those
of size or dimensions ; these latter concern each individual object,
while the former implicate the various situations wherein indiYidual
objects are placed in relation to each other.
Dr. Brown ascribes the notions of distance to a compound op-
eration of touch and sight. Ga11 ascribed the coup d'reil as to
space and t~e capability of measuring a given ground to locality
alone ; it seems to me the joined efiect of locality and size. Lo-
cality, size, and form, are essential to the practical knowledge of
Phrenology, and those who have these powers weak, and their or-
gans small, are wrong in stating their own inability as an objection
against Phrenology. The modified application of the special fac-
ulties may induce beginners in Phrenology to doubt of their reality,
if they do not find in every individual who shows an organ larger
the same manifestations of the mind. Amongst several persons
who have the organ of locality large, one may pay particular atten-
tion to local situations of external objects ; another may be indif-
ferent about them and not know how to find his way round his
abode, but may be delighted in seeing cascades, high mountains,
and romantic scenery ; in the same way as one is gratified with
noisy songs, and another is pleased only with music of the great
masters, or, as one is satisfied to live upon potatoes and beef, aml
anot_
her is gratified by truffles and game.
320 PHRENOLOGY.
Space does not seem to me a mere form of our undo·standing,
as Kant has maintained. It is true the conception of space cannot
be attributed to any of the five senses, but space certainly does ex-
ist in the external world. The conception of causality or necessary
consequence also, cannot be attributed to the five external senses ;
but the relations and succession of phenomena called cause and ef-
fect, exist in nature. The same truth applies to all the categories
established by Kant, which relate to external objects ; internal fac-
ulties constitute them, and they are adapted or in relation to the
external world ; in other words, all conceptions of external objects
are results of internal faculties calculated by creation to apply to
the external world.
XXVIII. Organ of Orde1·.
The idea of order supposes plurality, but this may exist without
order. The mind, acquainted with external objects, their physi-
cal qualities, the places they occupy and their number, may still
consider the order in which they are ranged with regard to each
other. There are individuals, even children, who like to see every
piece of furniture, at table every dish, and in their business every
article, in its place, and who are displeased and unhappy when
things are in disorder around them. The Sauvage de !'Aveyron,
at Paris, though almost a perfect idiot, could not bear to see a chair
or any other article out of its place. As soon as any thing was
disarranged, he went of his own accord and put it right. This dis-
position to arrange, however, differs from that philosophical meth-
od which results from consistency of ideas. The faculty of which
I speak in this place, gives method and order to objects only as
they are physically related ; but philosophic or logical inferences,
conceptions of system or generalization, and ideas of classification
are formed by the reflecting faculties. The faculty here discussed
is merely fond of putting particulars in order according to physical
considerations : as in a library, books according to their size and
form, and in natural history, animals according to their configura·
ORGAN OF CALCULATION. 321
tions. In general, order may be applied to form, size, color,
things, words, &c. Its organ is situated between those of color-
ing and calculation. Cleanliness or tidiness appears to depend on
it. It seems also that it produces the pleasure of seeing things
complete. Order is impossible, while the subject of arrangement,
as a collection, is imperfect.
XXIX. Organ of Calculation.
Some individuals remarkable for great arithmetical talent attract-
ed Gall's attention. Even children are found who excel in this
power. There was a child seven years old, called Devaux, who
took extreme delight in running about the fairs of his native town,
and making calculations for the merchants. A boy of thirteen
years of age, born at St. Poelten, not far from Vienna, surpassed
all his school fellows surprisingly at figures. He learnt with ease
an immense quantity of numbers by heart, went through the most
complicated arithmetical problems mentally, and very soon solved
them. Mr. Mantelli, a counsellor of the Court of Appeals at Vi-
enna, took a particular pleasure in solving questions in arithmetic ;
and his son, of five years of age, did little but calculate during the
whole day. In individuals so inclined and endowed, the external
angle of the eye-brow is either much pressed downwards or eleva-
ted. (Pl. xii. fig. 1. xxix.) This configuration results from a
greater developement of the cerebral part situated behind the
outer angle of the orbit. The portraits and busts of great calcula-
tors, as of Newton, Euler, Kaestner, Jedidiah Buxton, Hutton, &c.
present this external sign. The organ is established by an immense
number of observations.
Certain races of negroes make five the extent of their enumera-
tion, that is, they count only as far as five by simple terms ; all
their numbers after five are compound, whereas, ours are not so
till we have passed the number ten ; while our terms, six, seven,
&c., are simple, they say, five-one, five-two, five-three, &c.-
Negroes in general do not excel in arithmetic and numbers. Ac-
41
322 PHRENOLOGY.
cordingly their heads are very narrow in the seat of the organ of
number. Individuals among them, however, have considerable
powers of computation, and the organ larger and more energetic
than many Europeans.
I am not certain whether this faculty exists in animals. Bitches
are said to perceive if one of their puppies be taken away ; but
this does not prove that they count their young ones : they may
perceive by the faculties of individuality and configuration that
there is one wanting. George Le Roi has observed, that magpies
count three; for if there be a hut in the neighborhood of a tree, upon
which a magpie has built its nest, and if three persons enter it, the
magpie will not visit its nest before the three have gone away; if,
however, more than three enter, it can no longer keep count,
or compare the number of those who went in with that of those
who come out. Dupont de Nemours thought that magpies could
count nine.
1Vhatever concerns unity and plurality-number, belongs to this
faculty. Hence its end is calculation in general. The recollec-
tion of numbers of houses, or of pages where we have read inter-
esting passages, depends on this faculty. Gall called the organ of
the power under consideration the organ of mathematics ; but I
think it only calculates; and \vhilst arithmetic, algebra, and log-
arithms belong to it, the other branches of the mathematics and
geometry are nut products of its activity alone, but of its union
with size and locality. It may be applied to size, but also to form,
color, and melody.
XXX. Organ of Eventuality.
Gall admits, both in man and animals, a peculiar organ of educa-
bility, or of the memory of things and of events. Individuals-are
met with every day who have a general knowledge of the arts and
sciences, and who, without being profound, know enough to be
capable of speaking on them with facility,-individuals who are
deemed brilliant or clever in society. The middle part of their
ORGAN OF EVENTUALITY. 3.23
foreheads, Gall found was very regularly prominent. (Pl. x. jig.
1. xxx.) At first, he called the cerebral part in the above situation
the organ of the memory of things, because those largely endowed
with it were conm1only well informed, and knew a great deal; he
afterwards named it the sense of things. In comparing animals
with men, and one kind of animal with another, he found that tame
have fuller foreheads than wild animals, and that animals are gen-
erally tameable as the forehead is more largely developed ; he
therefore called it the organ of educability. But I conceive that
Gall in this attributes to a single faculty manifestations which de-
pend on intellect generally. The title educability is evidently bad,
seeing that 8\'ery faculty may be educated, in other words, exercis-
ed and directed. :Moreover, animals and men vary their actions
according to motives given by the whole of the faculties whose
organs lie in the forehead, and also according to various feelings.
The peculiar cerebral part, '\Vhich I have already indicated, is
largely developed in children. It varies in size among adults, is
larger in boys than in girls, and differs in magnitude among entire
nations. Individuals who have it large are attentive to all that hap-
pens around them, to phenomena or events, to facts ; they are fond
of history, of anecdotes; are inquisitive, and desire information on
every branch of natural knowledge.
1\loreover, it seems to me that this faculty recognises the activi-
ty of every other, whether external or internal, and acts in its turn
upon all of them. It desires to know every thing by experience,
and consequently excites all the other organs to activity; it would
hear, see, smell, taste, and touch; is fond of general instruction, and
inclines to the pursuit of practical knowledge, and is often styled
good sense in our proceedings. It is essential to editors, secreta-
ries, historians, and teachers. By knowing the functions of the
other powers, this faculty and individuality contribute essentially
to the unity of consciousness, and to the recognition of the entity
myself in philosophy. Eventuality seems to perceive the impres-
sions which are the immediate functions of the external senses, to
change these into notions, conceptions, or ideas, and to be essena
324 PHRENOLOGY.
tial to attention m genera]. Its sphere of activity is very great,
and expressed by the verbs in their infinitive mood. Every philo--
sophic system has taken account of some operations of this faculty.
XXXI. Organ of Time.
Conceptions of time are evidently peculiar in their nature ; they
may exist even without order and number. Yesterday, to-day, to-
morrow, the day after to-morrow, &c. form a succession, having
no regard to the number of days. There is more connexion be-
tween ti~e and order, and also more between order and number,
than between time and number.
Order relates more peculiar1y to objects, time to facts or events.
The conception of time is of a higher character than order or num-
ber. Accordingly, the organ of time occupies a higher place in
the brain than that of order, which is in a middle situation, or of
number, which is the lowest and most external of the three. The
natural language of time and of number proves indeed that the or-
gans of these faculties occupy different places ; in thinking of time
the eyes are turned upwards, and in calculating they are cast down-
\vards and outwards.
The faculty of time conceives the duration of phenomena, their
simultaneousness, or succession. Its application to chronology re-
quires the assistance of number, in order to recollect the dates.
It is one of the essential constituents of music, and some musicians
have great facility, and others great difficulty, to play in time. Its
organ is situated between eventuality, locality, order, melody, and
causality, and often acts in their connexion.
According to Dr. T. Brown, the power of time enters in the
conception of extension.
XXXII. Organ of Tune.
The organ of tune bears to the ears the same relation as that of
color does to the eyes. The ear hears sounds, and is agreeably
ORGAN OF TUNE. 325
or disagreeably affected by them ; but it has no recoHection of
tones, and does not judge of their relations. It does not perceive
harmonious combinations of sound, but separate tones only; and
sou~ds as well as colors may be separately pleasing, though disa·
greeable in combination. In treating of the sense of hearing I have
already demonstrated, that music has not originated from its exist·
ence. Besides the proofs there adduced that the ear is not the
instrument of musical perception, there exists direct evidence of an
internal organ being necessary to this ; for sometimes in epileptic:
fits and in delirium, individuals do not hear, but sing with great
precision, and then this organ is active, while the functions of all
the others are suspended or deranged. A greater developement
of the organ on which musical perception depends enlarges the
lateral parts of the forehead, (Pl. xii. fig. 2. xxxii.) but its form
varies according to the direction and form of the convolutions com-
posing it. In Gluck, Haydn, and others, it had a pyramidal form;
in Mozart, Viotti, Zumsteg, Dussek, Crescenti, and others, the
external corners of the forehead were only enlarged and rounded.
It lies higher and is more apparent in individuals whose brains are
narrow at the basis, whilst its appearance is less visible in those
who have the cheek bones much elevated. The surest indication
of its developement is, if it be more prominent than the external
angle of the eye.
The heads of birds which sing, of those which do not, and of
the individuals of the same kind which have a greater or less dis·
position to music, differ conspicuously at the place of this organ.
The hep.ds of male singing birds are easily distinguished from those
of females of the same kind by the different developement of the
organ of tune in each.
There is a striking analogy between colors and tones and their
respective organs: colors being perceived by the eyes, and sounds
by the ears; there being primitive colors and primitive tones; there
being an agreeable succession of colors as there is of tones, that is,
there bemg colors and tones which agree with one another, and
others which do not ; colors must harmonize, and tones must be
326 PHRENOLOGY.
concordant ; 1astly, the concordance both of colors and of tone8
may be considered by the faculties of order and number. In this
manner, indeed, colors and tones are calculated, and the principles
of painting and music established.
.Mr. W. Scott has published in the Phrenological Journal, vo1.
ii. two essays on music, and the different faculties which concur in
producing it. One of his propositions is singular, ' there seems,'
says he, ' to be a correspondence in all cases between the voices
of men and women and their cerebral developement.' I know the
most positive observations to the contrary. Persons \Vith small
heads who have a bass voice. It is true the voice is modified by the
activity of the feelings according to the laws of the natural language,
since all movements of the soft parts are concordant among them-
selves, and indicate the nature of the active powers. In com-
bativeness, for instance, there is museular contraction, and therefore
the voice is pitched low and sharp ; but general1y speaking, the
voice is neither in proportion to the head nor to the developement
of the organ of tune, it is modified only by the activity of the spe-
cial feelings.
.Mr. "\Y. Scott considers, also, imitation as necessary to practical
musicians, particularly to vocal performers. I think this proposi-
tion too general. Imitation invites to imitate, and gives the power
to do so, but it may imitate a good or a bad execution. It is, how·
ever, necessary both to the co~position and performance of dramatic
music; but not to musical expression in general. Every dramatic
expression but this alone, depends on it. Music is composed ac-
cording to the combination of the fundamental powers with tune
and time, and the different compositions will be well executed by
performers \vho possess combinations of powers similar to those of
the composers. If manual dexterity be indispensable to the per-
formance, the powers which give it are additional requisites. The
consideration of this kind, however, belongs to the treatise on the
combinations and modifications of the special powers, whilst this
volume is destined to the examination and analysis of the special
faculties of the mind and their'nature.
ORGAN OF LANGUAGE. 327
XXXIII. Organ of .!J.rbitrary Language.
Dr. Gall, in his youth, noticed that several of his school-fellows
learned even things which they did not understand with great facil-
ity by heart, whilst he, with the utmost difficulty, engraved in his
memory a very small number of words; and he observed that all
the boys who excelled in verbal memory had prominent eyes.
He afterwards spoke of an organ of words, the great degree of
whose developement is denoted by prominent eyes. Sometimes
the eyes not only project but are also depressed, and then the un-
der eye-lid presents a sort of roll, or appears swollen. (Pl. xiii.
fig. 2. xxxiii.) Those who have such a physiognomical sign are
fond of philology; they like to study the spirit of languages. Dr.
Gall speaks of the two configurations as the signs of two different
organs, under the titles, organ of words, and organ of languages.
It is quite true that some easily learn the spirit of different lan-
guages without having a great memory for words, and that others
readily acquire its words without catching the spirit of a language;
yet it seems to me, that the memory of words and philology in
general, depend on the same special faculty. In the philosophical
part of Phrenology, I show that judgment and memory are not
different degrees of activity of any faculty, but general modes of
activity of several; and that each may exist independent of the
other. It seems also to me, that the organ of words must have
its laws as well as those of color, of melody, or any other faculty;
now the law of words constitutes the spirit of language. I am sat-
isfied that this opinion is correct, because the spirit of every lan-
guage is the same, just as the essence of all kinds of music is alike;
that is, the laws or principles of music and of language rule univer
sally, and are constant; they are only modified in different nations
by modifications in their organs, and dissimilar combinations of
these in each. I, therefore, admit only one organ of language.
Before the special faculty of this organ can be understood, we
must examine the question so often treated by different authors;
328 PHRENOLOGY.
what is the influence of signs upon ideas? According to many
philosophers and to common opinion, signs may produce ideas.
Accuracy of language is said to be necessary to accuracy of thought.
This, however, is to christen the child before it is born. I think
with St. .Martin, that it is more reasonable to put the question in
an opposite way: what is the influence of ideas upon signs?-though
the Institute of France gave its prize to him \vho developed the
influence of signs upon ideas. In speaking of the influence of
signs upon ideas or the contrary, the question ought to be more
distinctly stated, and it should be asked, whether artificial signs
can produce ideas? Now, I am convinced that no arbitrary sign
can produce any idea; I am satisfied that ideas precede, and that
arbitrary signs follow ; that without ideas there \vould be no arbi-
trary sign; and that without having first had the idea, its arbitrary
sign is without meaning. ""\Ye have an evident proof of this in
persons blind from birth. The words red, green, blue, white,
give them no conception of color.
Here I must explain what is meant by an idea. Some philos-
ophers, after the etymology of the word, call every sensation
which presents an image, idea. In this sense, however, there are
very few ideas; even the sensations of the external senses \vould
not all deserve the name; for savors, odors, tones, and colors, do
not present any image. Other philosophers style sensations pro-
duced by means of the external senses, ideas. Others again un-
derstand by the expression, every sensation produced by activity,
both of the external and internal senses. .Moreover, ideas are
spoken of as of two kinds, simple and compound ; the first being
acquired by the external senses, the second being the result of re-
flection-abstract and general ideas. I propose to confine the term
idea to the conceptions of the perceptive faculties, and to call the
functions of the reflective faculties reflection. The organic ap-
paratus of all the internal faculties may be active, and a being may
consequently have an inclination, a sentiment, an idea, or reflection,
without manifesting it by any sign whatever. .Man and animals,
however, are destined for society; it is consequently necessary that
ORGAN OF LANGUAGE. 329
they should communicate and understand their sensations, ideas and
reflections, and this communication can take place only by means
of signs.
These signs are either natural, or arbitrary and artificial. Nat-
mal signs conform universally to every faculty. Every being
endowed with a given faculty manifests its activity essentially in
the same manner, and understands its natural manifestations in
others ; whilst beings endowed with different faculties can neither
communicate their own sensations so as to be understood, nor
understand those expressed by others. This law is common to
man and animals. Animals which have certain faculties in common
with man, understand their natural manifestations in the human kind.
The dog, for instance, understands signs of anger in his master
perfectly, because possessed of the faculty which produces anger ;
but he will never understand the natural signs of adoration. From
this it must be evident that individuals of the same kind understand
th~ natural signs of peculiar faculties better, if the faculties which
speak in others are of equal strength in themselves. The natural
language is also known under the name of pathognomy, and deserves
to be treated of separately.
The second sort of signs are arbitrary and artificial. Natural lan-
guage, I have said, is common to animals and man ; artificial lan-
guage is a prerogative of the human kind, and is a result of certain
superior intellectual faculties, which contrive means of gratifying all
the others. To communicate his sensations and ideas, man gener-
ally uses the artificial rather than the natural language, though this
last regularly and involuntarily accompanies the first. As natural
language is principally expressed by the voice and various motions,
so the same means are the readiest and most natural for producing
artificial signs ; but if the voice do not serve, as in addressing the
deaf or persons at a distance, we then recur to gestures and to writ-
ten signs. How absolutely artificial vocal signs are without mean-
ing in themselves, is evident from untutored man's universal igno-
rance of any other than his mother tongue. If, moreover, we
would communicate certain sensations or ideas to an individual only,
42
330 PHRENOLOGY.
we must choose arbitrary and secret signs-signs which he alone
understands. Hence, it is certain that artificial signs do not by
themselves produce any idea.
The superior intellectual faculties form the conception of pro-
ducing artificial signs for mental acts generally; and, therefore,
sensations, ideas, and reflections, must exist, before there can be
arbitrary signs invented to indicate them. It fo11ows, moreover,
that signs must be multiplied and modified according to the sensa-
tions and conceptions of the mind; hence there are as many sorts of
signs as of faculties. There are words or signs to indicate individ-
ual objects,-nouns. Others to denote the qualitities of substan-
tives,-adjectives, which in certain languages agree with the sub-
stantives ; and which are also susceptible of different degrees.
As there are different sexes among living beings, the signs admit
of genders. The number of objects is also considered ; sometimes
number alone, sometimes number combined with order, and some-
times with order and time ; one, two, three, &c. ; or first, sec-
ond, third, &c. ; or first time, second time, third time, &c. There
are other words again which may be used instead of substantives,
-pronouns ; and these are either personal, possessive, demonstra-
tive, or relative. Other signs,-verbs, denote the state of the
subject spoken of, whether a person or thing, and this state may
be aetive, passive, or neuter ; it may be affirmed or denied by cer-
tain terms in a positive (indicative) ; conditional (conjunctive or
subjunctive) ; or imperative manner; it may, moreover, be con-
sidered in relation to time, whether present, past, or future. Other
signs explain the verbs,-adverbs, many of which being analogous
to those indicating qualities of substantives, denote places, times,
numbers, quantities, &c. There are also particles which indicate
different operations of the mind : some causes, some connexion or
conjunction ; others, condition ; and others again, time, order, sud-
den mental emotions,-(interjections). There are artificial signs
then for every operation of the mind, and if all signs may be re-
duced, etymolgically considered, to nouns and verbs, their significa-
tions are still different and their terminations are therefore changed..
ORGAN OF LANGUAGE. 331
Now there is a particular faculty whose office it is to learn signs,
which are, as we have seen, produced in conformity with the ac-
tivity of all others, by superior intellectual faculties. It differs
from those \rhich produce artificial signs, and also from those
which produce the sensations and ideas these are assumed to ex-
press. There is, indeed, no proportion between these different
kinds of faculties. Among mankind, some excel in one of them
and not in the other. It is very possible to have many ideas with-
out great powers of learning the arbitrary signs which express
them ; and also to know many words without having many ideas.
By this faculty of arbitrary language then, we perceive the connex-
ion of audible and visible signs with things signified.
To converse however by means of audible signs, besides the
inc1inations, sentiments, ideas or reflections, and the \vords or vo-
cal signs invented to express them, we must possess the organs
of voice and the sense of hearing. I hm~e already said, that arbi-
trary language is more necessary to the manifestations of the intel-
lectual faculties than of the propensities and sentiments. The
organ of language accordingly occupies a transverse situation in the
midst of the perceptive faculties.
This, like all other organs, seems composed of different parts.
Some persons are apt to forget proper names, while they recollect
words denoting qualities of external bodies. Disease or accident
has entailed this pecnfiarity in several instances. One Lereard,
of .Marseilles, having received a blow from a foil on the eye-brow,
lost the memory of proper names entirely; he sometimes forgot
the names of his intimate friends, and even of his father, as he
stated in a letter written to Gall, for advice. Cuvier, in his His-
torical Eulogium on Brousonnet, delivered in the Institute of
France, in 1808, relates that this famous botanist after an apoplec-
tic fit, could never recollect either proper names or substantives,
though he recovered his prodigious memory of other matters. He
knew the forms, leaves, and color of plants, and recollected their
Bpithets, but could not recall their names.
Gall thinks that in consequence of being destitute of this faculty,
332 PHRENOLOGY.
monkeys, ourang-outangs, and other animals, want the power of
speech. It seems to me, however, that animals have it in some
degree ; for they learn to repeat arbitrary signs, and understand
them as far as they have the sensations expressed ; and I am of
opinion that animals want speech for the same reason that they
have no clothes, make no fire, ,and do not produce food. It is
certain that deficiency in vocal organs is not the cause of animals
having no artificial language ; for some of them pronounce words,
even sentences, nay, and understand 'vhat they say, but yet pro-
duce no artificial sign whatever.
Half idiot children there are who never speak, though they do
many things like reasonable persons ; and then parents, relations,
and even physicians, cannot conceive their partial imbecility. Now,
though such children be not deaf, though they pronounce various
words, yet they never go on to speak, and the cause of this is
often looked for in the organs connected with the production of
voice, the tongue, amygdaloid glands, palate, &c.; but the state
of these parts is never the reason of the want of language. The
organs of voice, it is true, produce sounds, but they do not origi-
nate or cause vocal language : persons deprived of several, as of
the tongue, the palate, have yet continued to speak.:Jt Their pro-
nunciation of course was not so distinct as that of other persons,
but they felt the necessity of communicating their sensations and
ideas, and therefore contrived to speak. On the contrary, these
half idiots pronounce single words very well, but cannot keep up a
conversation, nor fi..x their attention, nor combine their expres-
sions. They are conseqLtently destitute of the power of learning,
as well as of the intellectual faculty of inventing arbitrary signs.
There are two occasional causes of such partial imbecility, a
slight hydrocephalus, distending the brain and pushing the eyes
forward precisely as a very considerable developement of the cere-
* Bartholin speaks of this in a boy who lost his tongue by suppuration from
small pox: Huxham saw the same in a girl: Schenk, Tulpius, Richter, &c.
speak of similar facts. There is also a dissertation by Aurran, De Feminm
Elinguis Loquela. Argentor. Ii66.
REFLECTIVE FACULTIES. 333
bra1 parts behind the orbits does. These children may therefore
present the external mark which in a healthy state of the brain de-
notes great strength of the faculty of arbitrary language. This
circumstance, however, does not prove the impossibility of discov-
ering the state of the organ on which it depends, as certain adver-
saries of Phrenology have maintained : it presents only a difficulty
which must be removed. The state of the organization generally
must guide our judgment. The second cause of this partial im-
becility is some real defect of organization : the cerebral part,
whose function is arbitrary language, may be either wanting or ,·ery
slightly developed, and then individuals so constitutbd never speak.
Their eyes, instead of projecting, lie deeply sunk in the orbits, the
roofs of which, instead of being plane, are quite concave.*
I therefore admit only one organ of language, which produces
similar phenomena in regard to language or arbitrary signs, as the
other intellectual faculties do in regard to external impressions.
It makes us acquainted with arbitrary signs, remembers them,
judges of their relations, and gives a disposition to indulge in all
exercises connected with words.
CHAPTER III.
Reflective Faculties.
THE intellectual faculties, hitherto considered, give knowledge
of objects, their physical qualities and relations. I now come to
those which reflect on all the others, affective as well as intellect-
ual, and constitute what is called reason, or reflection.
* 'Vhat is to be done with such children? Those affected in the first way ought
to be sedulously strengthened by a good physical education, and by avoiding
too incessant exercise of their feelings and intellectual faculties. The fibres of
the brain with age occasionally become stronger, and resist the pressure of the
water accumulated in its cavities. Too early instruction is under all circum-
stances hurtful, but lt is especially so to these children. The disease springing
from the second cause, or deficiency of organization, is of course irremediable.
334 PHRENOLOGY.
A wide range of sciences falls under the scope of individuality,
eventuality, and the perceptive faculties in general, such as all
branches of natural history, anatomy, chemistry, and all sciences
the substance of which consists in a knowledge of the existence,
appearances, and properties of natural objects. Farther, the de·
tails of history, statistics, geography and trade, all belong to the
department of simple knowledge. The knowing powers, with an
active constitution, and some propelling feelings, as love of appro·
bation, acquisitiveness, and others, are sufficient to explain the
eminence of some professors in those branches of knowledge,
without great rbasoning powers. But then such persons are never
distinguished by profound and comprehensive views of abstract
principles. These are conceived by the reflective faculties.
XXXIV. Organ of Comparison, and General Harmony.
The greater number of persons are satisfied with individual
knowledge, and the principal charm of popular speakers consists
in a clear statement of facts, and copiousness of illustrations.
Close reasoning and rigid induction is always disagreeable to the
public, because the reasoning powers are less developed, and less
exercised~ Phrenology alone explains why reason is so rare.
:Many persons, however, are delighted with comparisons. It is a
rule in teaching to proceed from known, to unknown ideas, and to
establish analogies.
Gall often conversed on philosophical matters with a friend of
his who possessed much vivacity of mind : whenever the latter
was put to difficulty in proving rigorously his positions, he had
always recourse to a comparison. By this means he painted his
ideas, and his opponents were defeated, and carried along with
him.
Gall, perceiving this characteristic trait of mind, examined his
head and found an eminence, of the form of a reversed pyramid,
in the upper ~nd middle portion of the forehead; (Pl. xiv. fig.
i. xxxiv.) He confirmed this observation in many subsequent m-
ORGAN OF COMPARISON. 335
stances. He possessed the skulls of two Jesuits, who had this
faculty and its organ in a high degree. He names it perspicacity,
sagacite comparative, esprit de comparison.
This organ is developed in all popular preachers, who very
regularly speak by parables, and choose their similitudes from facts
generally known. To succeed in persuading a popular audience
an orator must always speak in examples and by analogy; he must
bring spiritual things near to terrestrial objects, by comparing them
with each other, and imitate the manner of preaching of Jesus, who
very frequently spoke in parables.
This faculty attaches us to comparison, without determining its
kinds ; for every one chooses his analogies from his knowledge,
or from the sphere of activity of his other faculties. He who has
the organ of locality in a high degree derives thence his examples,
another from forms, astronomy, mechanics, &c.
The operations of this faculty are often called reasoning, but it
is very different from the inductive reasoning of a sound logic. It
proves by analogy and is prone to convert an illustration into an
argument.
Those who possess this faculty in a higher degree, feel differ-
ences and analogies which escape others, in \vhom it is smaller
though very active.
This faculty compares the sensations and notions excited by
all the other faculties, points out their similitudes, analogies, dif-
ferences, or identity, comprehends their relations, harmony, or dis-
cord. Its tendency and activity are perceived in language which
abounds in figurative expressions, viz. the external sensations are
compared with the internal, and the same vocal signs are used to
express both kinds of functions.
Comparison is the origin of proverbs, which convey instruction
under figurative expressions.
The Scotch phrenologists were for some time disposed to con-
fine the power of compariso~, to the perception of analogies and
resemblances; and to ascribe, with 'Villiam Scott, the perception
of differences, to wit or mirthfulness, as already mentioned above
336 PHRENOLOGY.
when I treated of that feeling. In my opinion this faculty perceives
the differences as well as resemblances, analogies, and identities.
The faculty of tune perceives the cEscord, and the harmony of
tones, and coloring perceives disagreeable and agreeable, or incon-
gruous and congruous impressions of colors. In the same way, I
attribute to comparison, the perception of differences and analogies,
and as a higher degree of musical talent distinguishes the slightest
differences of tones, so a greater developement of comparison
seems necessary to feel the nicer differences in arguments, and
constantly to discriminate in philosophical reasoning.
The great aim of this faculty seems to be to form abstract ideas,
generalizations, and to establish harmony among tbe operations of
the other faculties. Coloring compares colors with each other,
and feels their harmony; but comparison adapts the colors to the
object which is represented ; it will reject lively colors, to present
a gloomy scene. The laws of music are particular, and tune com-
pares tones ; but comparison chooses the music according to the
situations where it is executed. It blames dancing music in a
church, it is opposed to walking with fine clothes in the dirt, to su
perb furniture aside common things, it feels the _relation between the
inferior and superior feelings, and gives the preference to the latter.
Its influence, however, presupposes the activity of the other
faculties, and it cannot act upon them if they are inactive. This
explains why some persons have taste and good judgment in one
respect and not in another. He who is deprived of reverence,
may not be careful enough about its application. He may deride·
what others respect. Bnt if another possess it in a high degree,
and at the same time comparison~ he will wish to bring his rever-
ence in harmony with his other powers.
Mr. Combe, in his System of Phrenology, p. 470, mentions a
new view, suggested by Mr. H. "\Vatson. I am delighted to
know that this gentleman is engaged in the pursuit of Phrenology ;
he is destined to render great service to its cause, but my compar-
ison makes me differ from him as to the essential function of this
faculty. He ccmceives, that its simple function probably is a per-
ORGAN OF CAUSALITY. 337
ception of conditions, and he proposes the term conditionality as
the name. I copy a few illustrations.
'When we utter the word man, we address individuality alone,
we speak of a being which exists, without specifying his form, size,
color, or weight, without mentioning his actions, and without inti-
mating his condition. When we say, the man walks, we add a
new idea, that of walking. In this proposition we call in the aid
of eventuality, which perceives action or events. If we say, the
tall man walks, we address size, individuality, and eventuality ; or
if we say, the black man rides, then color, individuality, and even-
tuality combine in uttering and in understanding the proposition ;
but suppose that we are told, that the miserable man runs along the
road, here we have first, the man ; second, his condition, misera-
ble ; third, his action, running ; now what organ takes cognizance
of his condition.' Before I answer I copy another example ;
' suppose that we are told, that l\Ir. A. and .Miss B. were married
last week, at the altar of their parish church. Individuality takes
cognizance of .Mr. A. and .Miss B. as individuals, and of the altar
.and church, as things-which exist; locality will inform us of the
place of the marriage, and time of the date of it, but in all this
nothing is said of the condition of the parties, their married state.'
In my opinion, the cognizance of these different conditions is
tested by eventuality. This faculty not only shows the active, but
also the passive and neutral verbs. It perceives a man walking, but
also a man being carried, a man asleep, two persons being married
To be young, or old, good, just, or the contrary, are physical or
moral events, whic.h are made known to eventuality. Hence there
is no necessity of a new organ of conditionality.
XXXV. Organ of Causality.
Gall observed that those who were attached to the study of
metaphysics, presented such a hemispherical developement of the
superior part of the forehead, as is seen in .Mendelssohn, Kant,
(Pl. XIV. fig. 2. XXXV.) Fichte, Locke, and others.
43
338 PHRENOLOGY.
It is remarkable that the ancient artists should always have given
to their busts of philosophers a large forehead, and represented
Jupiter Capitolinus with a forehead in the middle part more promi-
nent than is ever seen in nature ; they seem to have observed that
developement of the forehead has a relation to great understanding.
It is farther remarkable, that this larger developement does not ex-
tend to the lateral upper portion of the forehead. The organ of
mirthfulness, which the Edinburgh phrenologists are inclined to
consider as that of perceiving differences, is small in the busts of
Demosthenes, Cicero, and other great men; it is particularly de-
fective in Jupiter. In this respect, therefore, the observations of
the ancient artists coincide with mine, to prove that the organ of
mirthfulness is not necessary to a philosophical mind.
Gall ascribes to the hemispherical configuration of the upper part
of the forehead the love of metaphysics, or profound reasoning.
To this I must, however, object, first, that in the configuration
decrihed, both the middle and lateral parts of the front cerebral
lobes are involved ; and that the special faculty of both is not the
same. It happens indeed that sometimes the middle, sometimes
the lateral parts are most developerl. :Moreover, the name met-
aphysics does not designate a special power of the mind. And I
therefore ask, what is the special faculty of the lateral parts ? Let
us examine the most active faculty in metaphysicians. Their ob-
ject is to investigate the nature of all things, even the nature of
God, and of the immortal soul. Though, with Kant and others,
I think that it is impossible by reasoning to penetrate these sub-
jects, it may still be asked, what faculty endeavors to do so ?
:Metaphysicians, in their attempts to explain phenomena, neces-
sarily examine the relations between cause and efiect. Philoso-
phers in their explanations of natural phenomena by reasoning,
always suppose or admit some cause, and then de~elope their sub-
ject by mental induction according to it. It seems to me, there-
fore, that the special faculty of the cerebral parts on either side
of comparison, examines causes, considers the relations between
cause and effect, and prompts men to ask, 'Vhy ?
ORGAN OF CAUSALITY. 339
The effects of causality are immense : the cultivation of fields,
plantation of trees, all the artificial enjoyments of the external and
internal senses, the invention of instruments of all kinds, in short
all which man produces by art, depends on this faculty. It is the
fountain of resources. It knows the conditions under which events
happen, brings these to bear, and produces effects ; for man
cannot create, he can only imitate nature ; he cannot attain final
causes, which nevertheless must exist ; all he can know is the suc-
cession of phenomena, and if one uniformly succeed another, the
preceding is considered as the cause and the succeeding as the
effect.
This succession of events may take place without being per-
ceived. To this end a special faculty is given to man. Animals
do many things instinctively according to laws, but they do not
know them or their cause ; whilst man by this power, has the ir-
resistible conviction that every phenomenon of nature has its cause,
and is led by successive steps to the first cause. Farther, in con-
sidering the actions of man, we must admit motives or moving
causes from which they proceed. The law of causation cannot
be too much recommended and attended to.
The application of this faculty to metaphysics appears to me an
abuse, since that study is beyond the reach of human nature and
capacmes. In consequence, investigations of that kind have re-
tarded the progress of true, practical, and useful knowledge.
Comparison and causality combined constitute reason, which has
its laws, and depends on the acivity of the other faculties. With·
<Jut causality, no argumentative reasoning ; without great compar-
ison, no comprehensive views, and no nice distinction. If a per-
son with small reflective faculties write a book, he may shine in
narratives, provided individuality, eventuality and language, be amply
developed, but when he endeavors to reason, he will be feeble and
confused. Reason, however, or the reflective faculties, are no
sure guide for themselves alone, though they are the most impor-
tant powers of the mind. They themselves decide, but the ob-
ject to be judged must be furnished. In intellect, sound judgment
PHRENOLOGY.
requires strong reflective faculties and sound knowledge, and to
judge soundly of the feelings, as of the moral and religious nature
ofman, great reflective faculties and the activity ofthe special feelings
are necessary. Reason determines the relations and right employ-
ment of the feelings, but does not produce them.
Thus the faculty of individuality makes us acquainted with ob-
jects, that of eventuality with events ; comparison points out their
identity, analogy, or difference, and finds out their harmony ; final-
ly, caus:11ity desires to knO\v the causes of all occurrences. Con-
sequently these faculties together, pointing out general principles
and laws, and drawing conclusions, inductions, or corollaries, con-
stitute the truly philosophic understanding.
General Reflections on the Perceptive or Krwwing Faculties.
The conception of organs for the perceptive powers and their
subdivision is mine. Gall, neither admitted the division of the
menta] powers into feelings and intellect, nor their subdivisions.
He treated of an organ of educability, or the memory of facts ; of
another for the recollection of persons ; of the special organs of
colors, localities, numbers, and music ; and of two more, one for
'learning languages, and another for their spirit ; whilst I speak,
first of faculties which perceive the existen·ce and physical qualities
of external objects, and then of those which procure notions of
relations. To the former belong individuality, configuration, size,
weight, and coloring. The latter alone has been pointed out by
Gall. According to him, music depends on one organ, and lan-
guage on two; whilst I admit the organs of tune and time as essen-
tial to music, and only one organ of language. I also limit his or-
gan of educability to eventuality, and consider order as a funda-
mental power.
CONCLUSION. 341
General Reflections and Conclusion.
I now bring this volume to a close, hoping to have accomplish-
ed the aim I had in view : the determination of the physiology of
the brain, the specification of the primitive faculties of the mind,
and the discovery of their respective organs. The fundamental
powers of the mind, as demonstrated in Phrenology, are evidently
very (.Efferent from those admitted in any of the systems of Philoso-
phy hitherto promulgated. The relations between Phrenology and
the schools of Philosophy are discussed in a separate volume. The
special organs of the mental functions, except those of feeling and
of voluntary motion, are all contained in the head. Those of the
faculties most commonly possessed by animals are at the basis of
the brain, and the others, as their functions rank higher, occupy
superior situations ; those, consequently, of the powers peculiar
to man compose the entire upper and fore parts of the cerebral
mass. The organs of the faculties, too, which have something
analogous in their nature, as of the propensities, of the sentiments,
of the perceptive and of the reflective powers, are regularly found
together ; and those of the faculties which more especially aid
each other are also in each other's vicinity. "\Ve can, therefore,
speak of the organs under rubrics : amativeness, philoprogenitive-
ness, adhesiveness, and inhabitiveness, are all in one neighborhood;
combativeness is surrounded by amativeness, philoprogenitiveness,
adhesiveness and destructiveness ; secretiveness is between alimen-
tiveness, destructiveness, acquisitiveness, and cautiousness; self-
esteem and firmness go together ; so do adhesiveness and love of
approbation ; so also benevolence, reverence, hope, and marvel-
lousness ; individuality and the powers which perceive the physi-
cal qualities of external objects are vicinant; individuality, event·
uality, comparison, and causality, run into each other, and so of
the rest. Organs are, farther, placed nearer the mesial line of the
head, as their functions are more important. Finally, the organs
of the affective powers comprise by far the greatest mass of the
342 PHRENOLOGY.
brain; those of the intellectual powers, though very numerous, are
extremely small. The whole of the organs, common to man and
animals, are generally larger than those which are proper to man.
The primitive powers of the mind and their respective organs,
having been proved by observation and induction, cannot be at-
tacked by reasoning alone; supported by invariable facts, they
must be admitted as existing by the will of the Great and Supreme
Cause of the universe. ' Thy fVill be done on earth as it is in
heaven,' is the great and leading commandment ; Phrenology en-
forces it upon new grounds, and may be shown to furnish the most
effectual means of rendering man better and happier than he is.
This, indeed, must be the ultimate result of Phrenology~
ExPLANATION of the Fi$ures representing various Portraits, and
of the Numbers refernng to the various Organs marked in the
Plates.
Pl. I. fig. I. Hydrocephalus: idiotic child. Fig. 2. Hydroce-
phalus : adult and intelligent.
PI. II. fig. I. Idiot, 25 years old. Fig. 2. Lord Bacon.
Pl. III. fig. I. J. M * * *, historian, has II. large. Fig. 2. A
French abbe, full of vanity but feeble in amativeness ; II. is
small. -
PI. IV. Two female heads. Fig. 1. has the organ of philopro-
genitiveness large. Fig. 2. has it small.
Pl. V. Two views of heads from behind. Fig. 1. has vi. i. and
xii. large, x. and xv. small. Fig. 2. on the contrary, has
vi. i. and xii. small, and x. and xv. strongly marked.
Pl. VI. fig. 1. has vii. and xiii. large; vi. i. x. and xv. small.
Fig. 2. has vi. i. x. and xv. large, but vii. and xiii. small.
PI. VII. fig. 1. and 2. Heads of bull-dogs. Fig. 3. and 4. Heads
of horses. In fig. 1. and 3. vi. and xiii. are large ; the
same organs in fig. 2. and 4. are small.
Pl. VIII. fig. 1. with a large developement of xiii. and xiv., whilst
vi. and i. are very small. Fig. 2. has vi. i. viii. and xv.
large, and the anterior and upper part of the head small.
Pl. IX. fig. 1. Sterne : xx. is very considerable. Fig. 2. Shaks-
peare, has xix. and xxi. much developed. ,
PI. X. fig. I. has the middle part of the forehead, marked X.."<X.
very prominent; in fig. 2. ix. xxii. and xxiii. are very strong.
Pl. XI. fig. I. P. P. Reubens ; xxvi. very large. Fig. 2. Cap-
tain Cook: xxvii. much developed.
Pl. XII. fig. 1. Jedidiah Buxton: xxix. very large. Fig. 2.
Handel : xx.."{ii. very strongly indicated.
Pl. XIII. fig. 1. has eventuality and language strong. Fig. 2.
Horne Tooke : language particularly indicated.
Pl. XIV. fig. 1. J. Abernethy, D. D., with large comparison.
Fig. 2. Kant : the upper part of the forehead is very promi-
nent.
NAMES OF THE ORGANS.*
No. I. Organ of Destructiveness.
II. " Amativeness.
III. " Philoprogenitiveness.
IV. " Adhesiveness.
v. " Inhabitiveness.
VI. " Combativeness.
VII. " Secretiveness.
VIII. " Acquisitiveness.
IX.
,, Constructiveness.
X. " Cautiousness.
XI. " Love of approbation.
XII. " Self-esteem.
XIII. " Benevolence.
XIV. " Reverence.
XV. " Firmness.
XVI. " Conscientiousness.
XVII. " Hope.
XVIII. " :Marvellousness.
XIX.
,, Ideality.
XX.
,, Mirthfulness or gayness.
XXI. " Imitation.
XXII. " Individuality.
XXIII. " Configuration.
XXIV. " Size.
XXV. " Weight and resistance.
XXVI. " Coloring.
XXVII. " Locality.
XXVIII. " Order.
XXIX. " Calculation.
XXX. " Eventuality.
XXXI. " Time. t..~....
XXXII. " Tune.
p..",.
XXXIII. " Language.
XXXIV. " Comparison.
XXXV. " Causality.
* The numeration of the organs being in this edition different from that in the former edi-
tions, does by no means indicate that the situations of the individual organs have been alter-
ed. The place of amativeness, for instance, formerly numbered i., and now marked ii., is
always the same, and so it is with several other organs. Their numbers are changed merely
because I now treat of the organs in another order.
Pl.!.
·~...
/
;; ~,
II
••
P/.11
r-1./i. i
>:!
--~:(/
PllD.
"~\
J>
~.
\
.....,d
~....\.
·~
\'
v·. 9
L ' t o.- ·
- c)
Pl.JV
Pt.v
:XV
XY
Er · ,'!do.'
PI Pl.
-~'~~;. 2.
()
"];' ..
• '/
.L't0 . •_/ .
()
\ ,.
!'
l
XJI]JI. /
\fi'
EiO.I.
()
. f
~\~!
_}J/TP.
Pl.VJIL
/?_ JZ
_f(;,·, /.
c}
~ ......~ ·.
Pl.x.
..~l! •;·~'k~t
"\~
' .·
}'
7.·1
PlXIJ.
Fr"r··. I.
(_)
.~;~~~~'''"
c·- }fii-,t
_/f.l/_1/.
Eto. I.
0
....l,
;;;~·. 2 .
. . c)
_F( XLV.
n r>'. 2.
,,
PHRENOLOGY,
OR THE
DOCTRINE OF THE MENTAL PHENOMENA.
BY J. G. SPURZHEil\1, lH. D.
OF THE UNIVERSITIES OF VIENNA AND PARIS, AND LICENTIATE
OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON.
IN TWO VOLUJ\1ES.
VOL. II.
PHILOSOPHICAL PART.
THIRD AMERICAN EDITION,
&&J:J.TLY JMPROl"ED BY THE J.VTlJOR, FROM THE THIRD LONDON EDlTlQII",
\ ·~,.
- Pitt~bl:·~
N O"' 'O"
BOSTON:
MARSH, CAPEN AND LYON.
1334.
,.11y of Meu.
~M.oV;
I·
Entered, according to Act of Congre..,., in the year 1832, by Muso, c..,.M
AI'D LYoN, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachu•etts.
. ... ..
•• : •.:.r. 8TUEOTYPEO BY LYMAN THURSTON £ND COo
BOSTON,
PREFACE.
Whoever wishes for truth is a philosopher; and of
philosophers there are as many varieties as there are
departments of knowledge, as well physical as meta·
physical. The title, however, is more particularly given
to him who looks for exact notions and positive know-
ledge, founded on principles dependent on the relations
between cause and effect.
It is unfortunate for humanity, that those who assume
distinctive titles do not act up to them. From this
cause it is that the most noble appellations fall into dis-
credit. Pretended patriots have sometimes been more
dangerous than declared enemies-pretepded Christians
worse than heathens. Who ·would not be styled a phi-
losopher, or friend, or lover of wisdom? Yet this name
is often applied to decry individuals and their manner of
thinking. Let us only observe, that all who call them-
selves philosophers deserve not the title, any more than
those who are called noble do their titles.
The ancient philosophers were, in general, metaphy-
sicians, that is, they examined objects without the reach
of observation; for instance, the primitive cause of the
universe, the origin of beings, the cause of life, the
nature of the soul, its immortality, &c. I incessantly
repeat, that the aim of Phrenology is never to attempt
IV PREFACE.
pointing out what the mind is in itself, or its manner of
acting, or its final destination. Phrenologists are ob-
servers of nature, and as such they examine only the
manifestations of the mind and the circumstances under
which these take place in this life. To prove Phreno-
logy, a great mass of incontestable facts has been collect-
ed. This volume contains philosophical reflections, and
inferences drawn from phrenological observations. It
will be divided into eight sections. In the first I shall
make remarks on various systems of mental philosophy:
in the second I shall enumerate the fundamental powers
of the mind which are ascertained by observation and
admitted in Phrenology; state their aim, the disorders
which may result from them, and the consequences of
their inactivity: in the third, I shall discuss their origin :
in the fourth, the conditions of their manifestations: in
the fifth, the religious constitution of man : in the sixth,
the moral constitution of man : in the seventh, I shall
make some practical reflections; and, in the eighth, ex-
plain several philosophical expressions according to the
fundamental powers of the mind.
CONTENTS.
SECTION I.
OBSERVATIONS ON VARIOUS SYSTEniS OF l\IENTAL PHILOSOl'HY.
PAOZ
General view ofmental philosophy 9
Particular views of philosophers 27
Instinct, understanding 28
Consciousness and sensation 32
Perception 32
.Attention 35
l\Iemory 36
Reminiscence 38
Imagination 38
Judgment 40
.Association 43
Categories 46
Desire and will 47
.Affections 50
Passions 52
SECTION II.
I'BRENOLOGICAL DESCRil'TION AND CLASSIFICATION 01'
MENTAL PUENOMENA. 54
VI CONTENTS.
SECTION III.
PA.GI:
ORIGIN OF THE ntENTAL DISPOSITIONS• 59
.All is innate in man 59
.A few general faculties are innate and produce the particu-
lar dispositions 61
The external senses are the cause ofmental activity 65
Ofaccidental circumstances as the cause of mental phenomena 66
:Misery 68
Society 68
Climate 70
Of prepared circumstances or Education
Innateness ofthe mental dispositions
SECTION IV.
71
75
THE BRAIN IS INDISPENSABLE TO THE MENTAL PHENOMENA. 81
SECTION V.
RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN•
.Atheism
God's existence
God's attributes
God's relation8hip with man or Religion
Natural Religion
Importanee of Revelation
.Aim ofReligion
Improvement ofReligion
Sublimity of Christianity
Materialism and Immateriality or Spirituality
88
90
91
92
93
94
98
101
103
105
107
CONTENTS. vii
SECTION VI.
PA.Ci.
MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 114
Fatalism 114
Necessity 117
Liberty and responsibility 119
:1\'loralliberty 119
Origin and nature of morality 124
Extent ofmorality 13!2
Existence of evil, physical and moral 138
Origin of evil 140
Comparison of natural morality with christian morality 143
Natural goodness of man !55
SECTION VII.
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 159
Modifications ofthe affective and intellectual phenomena !59
Difficulty ofjudging others 167
Necessity ofmutual forbearance - 171
Sympathy and antipathy 17!2
Happiness ofman 175
Personal liberty - 186
SECTION VIII.
EXl'LANATION OF PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS, !94
Conclusion 212
PHILOSOPHICAL PRINCIPLES
OF
P H R E N 0 L 0 G Y.
SECTION I.
OBSERVATIONS o:; VARIOUS SYSTE~is OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL VIEW OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY.
h may be indifferent to phrenologists whether the first wise men
were among the Egyptians, Chalde~ns, Indians or Chinese. As
the fundamental powers of the mind are innate and essentially the
same in mankind, it is probable that in every nation some individ-
uals excelled and took the lead of their countrymen. My object
is here to take a very summary view of the most important schools
of philosophy.
It is known that before the Greek philosophers, learning was
hereditary in peculiar tribes or castes, and wisd,1m the monopoly
of certain families, of the priests-in Egypt, of the Levites among
the Jews, of the magi in Cbaldea, Assyria, and Persia, of the
brahmins among the Indians, of the druids among the Celtic nations,
&c. All knowledge was confined to priesthood, and the vulgar
relied on their sayings and interpretations of nature and heaven.
' The whole tendency of barbaric philosophy, though employed
itpon important subjects, both divine and human, was mystical.
lpstead of investigating truth from clear principles, there was every
2
10 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
where a public, or vulgar, and a concealed or more philosophical
doctrine. The sacerdocy directed the religious and civil concerns,
the administration of justice and the education of youth, clothed
their dogmas in an allegorical dress, and transmitted them princi-
pally by the way of tradition, to which the vulgar gave their simple
and easy assent. Ignorance, superstition and impostors prevailed.
It is, however, an important fact, that the doctrines of a Supreme
Deity and the immortality of the soul TI'ilre universally received.
The founders of the Grecian states introduced the mode of in-
struction used in their native countries in a poetical dress, and un
der the disguise of fables, mystery, prodigies, and mythological
enigmas. The management qf the civil and religious aff.1irs were
iu the same hands during the first period of Greece as well as Plse-
where. By degrees, however, practical wisdom appeared under
the exertions ofthe seven wise men; and Thalcs from 1\Iiletus, the
first of them, introduced the scientific method of philosophising.
Theogony and Cosmogony, (God and nature,) were the princi-
pal objects of philosophical inquiries in the remotest ages. The
chaos, as etemal, was generally admitted, and the creation from
nothing was unknown. The sum of the ancient Theogonies ancl
Cosmogonies seems to be: the first matter, containing the seeds of
all future beings, existed from eternity with God. At length the
Divine Energy upon matter produced a motion among its parts by
which those of the same kind were brought together, and those of
a difrerent kind were separated, and by whir.h, according to certain
wise laws, the various forms of the material world were produced.
The same energy of emanation ga,·e ex;stcace to animals, to men,
and to god.' , who inh"bit the heavenly 1-odies and various places
of nature. Among men, those who possess n larger portion of the
Divine nature than otllPrs are hereby impelled to great and benefi-
cn'lt actions, and afli,rd illustrious proofs of their Divine Original,
v" account of which they are after death raised to a place amon;
the gods, and become objsctc; of religious worship. Upon the ba-
sis of such notions the whole mythological system and all the relig-
ious rites and mysteries of the Greeks may be founded. Blind
GENERAL VIEW OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 11
t'ecess;ty in the motioa of the panicles of matter, seems to have
been admitted as the first principle of nature.
A naxagoras of Clazomena first affirmeLl that a pure mind, per-
fectly free from all material connex:ons, acted upon matter with
imeiligence and de,i:;n in the formaliun of the universe. Instead
of mixing mind with the rest, he coDcetved it to be a separate,
simple, pure, und intelligent being, capable of forming the eternal
mass of matter. Like Thabs, he believt>d the sun and stars t'J be
inanimate fiery bod:es, and no proper objects of worship. Of
course sach do<.:trines offen.::ed tl.e Athenians and their priesL ;
Ana'<agoras WP.S banished and went to T.aa1ps~cus, saying to his
iriends that he had not lost the Athenians, but the Athenians ..ad
lost him.
The Ionic ~chool investigated pa~ticularly the origin and nature
of things, considered the exteceal objects much more than the na-
ture of man, and in men paid little attention to those subjects in
w!tich the happiness of human life is immediately concerned.
They admired virtue and extolled virtuous actions without taking
the pains of establishing the principles and inculcating the precepts
of sound morality. No distinction was made between thoughts and
objects thought of.
Socrates gave a new direction to philosophical investigation.
He united with a penetrating judgment, a liberal mind and exalted
views, exemplary integrity and pmity of manners. Observing with
regret that the opinions of the Athenians were misled and their
moral principles corrupted, by philosophers who spent all their
time in refined speculations upon the origin and nature of things,
and by sophists who taught the art of false eloquence and deceitful
reasoning, Socrates endeavored to institute a new and more useful
method ofinstruction. He conceived that the true end of philoso-
phy is not an ostentatious display of superior learning, neither in-
genious conjectures, nor subtle disputations, bnt the love of truth
and virtue. He estimated the value of knowledge by its utility; and
recommended the study of astronomy, geometry and other sciences
only as far as they admit of a practical application to the purposes
12 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
of human life. His great object was to lead men into an acquaint-
ance with themselves, to convince them of their follies and vices,
to inspire them with the love of virtue and to furnish them with
useful moral instruction. He thought it more reasonable to exam-
ine things in relation to man and the principles of his moral con-
duct, than such as lie beyond the sphere and reach of human intel-
lect, and consequently do not relate to man. His favorite maxim
was: whatever is abo1•e ns, does not concern LIS.
Socrates had many disciples who formed schools or philosophical
sects, such as the Cyrenic sec( (by Aristippus from Cyrene in
Africa ;) the l\legaric sect (by Euclid of l\Iegara ;) the Eliac sect ;
&c. The most important were the Academic sect by Plato, the
Cynic by Antisthcnes, the Peripatetic by Aristotle, and the Stoic
by Zeno from Cyprus.
Plato at the age of twenty years attended to the instruction of
Socrates, remained eight years with him, and was his most illustri-
ous disciple. At the death of Socrates he went to 1\legara and
studied under Euclid ; he then traveller! in Magna Grrecia and was
instructed in the mysteries of the Pytha.gorean system ; he also vis-
ited Theodorus of Cyt·cne, and became his pupil in mathematical
science ; he even went to Egypt to learn from the Egyptian priests
astronomy, retnrned to the Pythagorean school at Tarentum and
finally to Athens, where he opened a school in a small garden and
spent a long life in the instruction of youth. He mixed the doc-
trines of his masters with his own conceptions, and showed a gt·eat
propensity to speculative refinement: he therefore attached himself
to the subtleties of the Pythagorenn sehool, and disdained the sober
method of reasoning intmduced by Socrates. His discourses on
moral topics are more pleasing than when he loses himself with
Pythagoras in abstract speculations, expressed in mathematical pro-
portions and poetical diction.
According to Plato, philosophy as it is employed in the contem-
plation of truth is termed theoretical, and as it is conversant in the
regulation of actions, is practical. The theoretical philosophy in-
quires, besides the contemplation of truth and virtue, the right
GENERAL VIEW OF MENTAL PJIJLOSOPIIY. 13
conduct of understanding and the powers of speech in the pursuit
of knowledge.
Plato remembered the inconveniences which several of his pre-
decessors among the Greeks had brought upon themselves by an
undisguised declaration of their opinions. On the other hand he
knew how successfully the Egyptians anti Pythagoreans had em-
ployed the art of concealment to excite the admiration of the vul-
gar, who are always inclined to imagine something more than human
in things which they do not understand. Yet he did not, after
the example of Pythagoras, demand an oath of secrecy from his
disciples, but he purposely threw over his public instruction of
various subjects a veil of obscurity, which was only removed for
those who were thought worthy of being admitted to his more pri-
vate and confidential lectures.
Plato divides his theoretical philosophy into three branches :
theological, physical and mathematical. He admitted God and
matter as eternal, since nothing can proceed from nothing, but he
ascribed to God the power of formation ; farther, he speaks of the
soul of the world from which God separated inferior souls, and as-
signed them down to earth into human bodies as into a scpulchre
or prison. From this cause he derived the depravity and misery
to which human nature is liable. Life is the conjunction of the
soul with the body, death is their separation.
The human soul consists of three parts : 1st, Intelligence ; 2d,
Passion; 3d, Appetite.-Passion and appetite depend on matter;
intellect comes from God, and the rational soul alone is immortal.
The human understanding is employed, 1st, upon things which it
comprehends by itself, and whicll in their nature are simple and
invariable ; or 2d, upon things which are subject to the senses and
which are liable to change. Sense is the passive perception of the
soul through the medium of the body.
In his republic or political doctrine, he wished to subjugate pas-
sion and appetite by means of reason or abstract contemplation of
ideas, a conception which prevails still now-a-days, and which will
be cleared up by l'hrenology.
14 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
His notions of morality were exaggerated. He placed the
greatest happiness in the contemplation and knowledge of the first
good-God ; and the end of knowing God, in et:dcavormg to
render men as like to God as the condition of human nature will
permit. This likeness consists in prudence, justice, sancti:y and
temperance. To attain this state it is necessary to be com·inced
that the body is a prison, from which the soul must be released
before it can arrive at the knowledge of real and immutable things.
The virtuous tendency of man is a gift of God, the effect of rea-
son alone, and cannot be taught.
The followers of P lato int:-oduced in his philosophy various
changes and new op!nions, and increased thereby its obscurity ;-
This happener! particularly in Alexandria, where Platonic philoso-
phy was mingled with tt·aditionary tenets of Egypt and Eastern
nations, and with the sacred principles of the Jews and Christians.
Aristotle, from Stagyra, a town in Thrace, at the age ofseventeen
years went to Athens, devoted himself to the study of philosophy in
the school of Plato, and continued in the Academy till Plato's death.
Several years later he was chosen as preceptor of Alexander son
of Philip, was eight years with Alexander, and when Alexander
undertook his Asiatic expedition formed a new school in the Ly-
ceum-a grove in the subL:rb of Athens, which was used for mili-
tnry exercise. Sinc.e he walked in discoursing with his disciples,
his sect was called the Peripatetics. He had two classt>s of dis-
ciples. In the morning he instructed the select, in the evening
the Lyceum was open to all young men witl1out distinction. His
study is rather that of words than of things, and tends more to per-
plex the understanding with subtle distinctions than to enlighten it
with real knowledge.
His logical dissertations are not sufficiently clear ; they contain
many subtleties which of course produce obscurity. He was fond
of syllogistic reasoning, but did not carefully distinguish between
words and ideas. He reduced the general terms to ten classes-
or categor-ies. Plato had learnt the arrangement of categories from
the Pythagorean school, who considered ten as a perfect number.
GENERAL VIEW OF l\IENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 15
Aristotle's categories are, 1st, substance;-.2d, quantity ;-3d, re-
lation ;-4th, quality ;-5th, action ;--6th, passion ;-7th, when or
time ;-Sth, "·here or place ;-9th, situation or local relation ;-
1Oth, habit. Later, five other general heads were added, viz. opposi-
tion, priority, coincidence, motion, and possession. In his phys-
ics, the explanation of the natural appearances is tedious.- In his
metaphysical doctrine of the Deity and soul, he divests God of the
glory of creation, connects him with a world already formed by
the chain of necessity, but makes him the first spring and cause of
all motion. God is constantly occupied with the contemplation
of his own nature, and so removed from the inferior parts of the
universe that he is not even a spectator of what is passing among
the inhabitants of the earth, and therefore cannot be a proper ob-
ject of worship, prayers and ~acrifices.-The human soul has three
faculties: nutritive, sensitive and rational. By the nutritive facul-
ty life is produced and preserved ;-by the sensitive 1ve perceive
and feel. He nowhere says whether the soul is mortal or immor-
tal. He placed moral felicity neither in the pleasures of the body,
nm in riches, civil glory, power, rank, nor in the contemplation of
tmth, but in the exercise of virtue, which is in itself a source of
delight. Virtue is either theoretical-the exercise of the under-
standing, or practical-the pursuit of what is right and good.-
Practical virtue is acquired hy habit.
Aristotle, by his metaphysical doctrines offended the priesthood.
Apprehensive of meeting with the fate of Socrates, he left Athens,
saying : 1 am not willing to give the Athenians an opportunity of
committing a second offence against philosophy. He had contin-
ued his school twelve years, and appointed Theophrastus, one of
his favorite pupils, as his successor.
The Cynic sect, founded by Antisthenes, an Athenian, was not
so much a school of philosophy as an institutio!l of manners. Soc-
rates perceiving the great tendency of the Athenians for futile spec-
ulations, extreme effeminacy, luxury and vanity, recommended
practical wisdom. The Cynics fell into the other extreme.-They
taught simplicity of manners, but passed beyond the limits of de-
connn, and at last became ridiculous and disgusting.
16 PHILOSOPHY OF THE llllND.
Zeno admired the general principle of the Cynic school, but
could not reconcile himself to their peculi~r manners, nor could
he adopt their indifference about every scientific inquiry. He
attended the different masters of philosophy, and then became a
founder of a new sect, called Stoic from Stoa-porch, viz. the place
of their school. There were great contests between Zeno and the
academy on one side, and between Zeno and Epicurus on the oth-
er. Zeno borrowed his doctrine on physics from Pythagoras and
Plato ; he excels more by his strict system of moral discipline.
Whilst Epicurus taught his followers to seek happiness in tranquil-
lity and freedom from labor and pain, Zeno imagined his wise
man not only free from all sense of pleasure, but void of all passions
and emotions, without fear and hope, and capable of being happy
in th.e midst of torture. Epicurus believed in the fortuitous con-
eourse of atoms; whilst Zeno admitted fate, or an eternal and immu-
table series of causes and effects. According to the Stoics, wis-
dom consists in the knowledge of things divine or hnman. Virtue
is the only true wisdom ; and the mind of man is originally like a
blank sheet, wholly without character bm capable of receiving any.
The conformity to nature is the great end of existence. Virtue
is to be sought for not through the fear of punishment, or the hope
of reward, but for its own sake. Virtue, being in conformity to
uature, is in itself happiness.
Man has duties towards God, towards himself, and towards his
neighbors. God is the author of all that is good, and tbe Supreme
director of all human affairs. The pious man reveres God in all
e\·ents; is in every thing resigned to God's will; considers whatever
befalls him as right, and the will of God; and cheerfully follows
wh3rever divine providence leads him, even to suffering or death.
Piety, in short, is nothing but a quiet submission to irresistible
fate.
Man's duty with respect to himself is to subdue his passions of
joy and sorrow, hope and fear, and even pity. It is virtuous self-
denial and self-command. Man may withdraw from life because
life and death are indifferent things, and death 111ay be more con-
sistent with nature than life.
GENERAL VIEW OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 17
Our duty towards others is to love all men, even our enemies.
A wise man will injure no one, will feel pleasure in protecting and
serving others. He will not think himself born for himself alone,
but for the common good of mankind. l-Ie is rewarded for his
good by itself without applause or recompense. The wise man
will disdain sorrow from sympathy as well as from personal suffer-
ing. He is ready to exercise lenity and benignity, and to attend
to the welfare of others and to the general interest of mankind, but
pity towards a criminal is weakness.
Another great branch of Greek philosophy sprung from Pytha-
goras and sprouted out into the Eleatic, Heraclitean, Epicurean,
and Skeptic sects. Pythagoras, probably from Samos, went to
Egypt, spent there twenty-two years, underwent at Thebes many
severe and troublesome ceremonies in order to gain the confidence
of the priests and to be instructed in their most concealed doctrines.
Hts method of teaching was mysterious and after the example of
the Egyptian priests. He even boasted to be capable of doing
miracles, and to have received his doctrine from heaven. H e had
public and private disciples. The oath of secrecy was given by
the initated concerning the doctrine of God and nature. He taugl.t
theoretical and practical philosophy. The former contemplates
things of an immutable, eternal and incorruptible nature, the other
teaches things necessary for the purposes of life. Theoretical or
contemplative wisdom could not be obtained without a total ab-
straction from the ordinary affairs of life and a perfect tranquillity
of mind ; hence the necessity of a society separated from the world
for the purpose of contemplation. .Man was composed of body
and soul, the soul of a rational principle, seated in the brain, and of
an irrational part including the passions and seated in the heart.
The rational part ('I'~~·) is immortal, the irrational part perishes.
The rational soul afrer suffering successive purgations by transmi-
gration, and sufficiently purified, is recei,•ed among the gods and re-
turns to the eternal source from which it first proceeded. The Py-
thagoreans, therefore, abstained fro111 animal food and from animal
sacrifices. The object of all their moral precepts was to lead
3
18 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
man to the ill'.itation of God. They supposed, like the Egyptians,
the air full of spirits and demons, who caused health or sickness
among men and beasts.
Among the Elcatic sect was Democritus, the derider who
laughed at the follies of mankind, whilst Heraclitus of Ephesus,
another follower of Pythagoras, was perpetually shedding tears on
account of the vices of mankind and particularly of his country-
men, the Ephesians.
Epicurus, an Athenian, was of opinion that nothing deserved
the name of learning which was not conducive to the happiness of
life. He excelled by urbanity and captivating manners, made
pleasure the end of his philosophy and wisdom a guide to it. He
treated vulgar superstitions with contempt, dismissed the gods from
the care of the world, admitted nothing but material atoms, was
opposed to the austerity of the Stoics, and rejected providence
and fate, doctrines so strongly maintained by the Stoics. He
considered the regulation of manners (Ethics) as more important
than the knowledge of physics. He was an enemy of the third
part of philosophical doctrines--dialectics, as only productive of
idle quibbles and fruitless cavilling.-He placed truth above any
other consideration, and the end of living in happiness. Philoso-
phy ought to be employed in search of felicity: bodily ease and
mental tranquillity through temperance, moderation, fortitude, jus-
tice, benevolence and friendship.
Among the philosophers who regarded the testimony of the ex-
ternal senses as illusive, Pyrrho, fwm Elea, the founder ofthe Pyr-
rhonic sect, carried his doubts to the extreme. This school reject-
ed every inference drawn from sensations, and admitted as a funda-
mental principle that to every argument an argument of equal weight
might in all cases be opposed. The Pyrrhonic philosophers had the
tendency rather to demolish every other philosophical structure than
to erect one of their own. If it be true that Pyrrho carried his
skepticism to such a ridiculous degree that his friends were oblig;-
ed to accompany him whenever he went out that he might not be
run over by carriages or fall down precipices, his mind was deranged.
GENERAL VIEW OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 19
The Romans conquered the Greeks by Jrms, but submitted to
tueir understanding and manners. They found among them philo-
soph:cal systems for all tastes. The gloomy and contemplative
adopted the Pythagorean and Platonic creeds. Brutus was favor-
able to the union of the Platonic and Stoic philosophy. Cicero
was rather a warm admirer and an elegant memorialist of philoso-
phy than a practical philosopher himself. He held Plato in high
respect, especially for his philosophy of nature ; he also was ao
admirer of the Stoic system concerning natural equity and ci,•illaw;
he praised their ideas concerning morals, but he was continually
fluctuating between hope and fear, averse to contention, and inca-
pable of vigorous resolutions, and full of vanity. Cato of Utica
was a true Stoic;-Lucretius and Horace were of the Epicurean
sect ;-Plutarch, like Cicero, rather an interpreter of philosophers
than an eminent philosopher himself. Epictetus taught the purest
morals, and his life was an admirable pattern of sobriety, magna-
nimity and the most rigid virtue. Marcus Aurelius was the last
ornament of the Stoic school.
About the close of the second century arose at Alexandria the
Eclectic system: a mixture of the different tenets of philosophy
and religion, to the detriment of both. Pag~n ideas were mixed
with Christianity, and the different sects of philosophy wet·e arbi-
trarily interpreted. Subtle distinctions, airy suppositions and
vague terms were introduced ; and innumerable trifles were pro-
posed under the appearance of profound philosophy;-Pagans
became Christians and associated their ideas and language with
Christianity, and the fathers of the Christian church studied the
ancient philosophers to furnish themselves with weapons against
their adversaries, to show the superiority of the christian doctrine,
and to adorn themselves with the embellishment of erudition.
.1\Iany did not distinguish between the light of revelation and that
of reason. Nothing could be expected for philosophy from those
who were busily occupied in disputes with infidels and heretics.
From the beginning of the seventh century to the twelfth the
Scholastic and Mystic theology sprung up. The irruptions of
20 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Barbarians had confined philosophy and learning to monastic insti-
tutions, whilst the people were ignorant and superstitious. During
the dark ages up to the fourteenth century philosophy resembles
a barren wilderness; it was the handmaid of theology ; and though
the Scholastics paid to Aristotle almost religious reverence, their
minds were darkened by Aristotle's dialectics and logic, and their
idle contests continued to disturb the world. The syllogistic form
of reasoning became general, and the forms oftechnical phraseology
were infinite. I copy only one example from Dr. Th. Drown's
lectures on philosophy, (sterotype edition, p. 327) where he quotes
how a scholastic logican proves by a long technical argumentation
that the impossible difl'ers from what is possible : ' whatever of it-
self and in itself includes things contradictory, differs in itself from
that which of itself and in itself does not imply any thing contra-
dictory. But what is impossible of itself and in itself involves
things contradictory, for example, an irrational human being, a
round square. But what is possible of itself and in itself, includes
no contradiction. Therefore what is impossible in itself differs
from what is possible.'
Various sects, as the Nominalists, Realists, Verbalists, Formal-
ists, Thomists, Scothists, and Occamlsts, were at open war with
each other.
The Aristotelian philosophy was kept up, since it was the com-
mon opinion that the ancient Greeks had attained the summit of
science, so that after all the question was what Aristotle, Plato, or
Pythagoras had taught, rather than what was true. Philosophy and
religion were so mixed together that some called themselves Scrip-
tural philosophers, not to show that the general principles of reason
and the natural law of morality agree with the doctrine of Scrip-
ture, but to designate that all philosophy, even of physical and
metaphysical science, is derived from divine revelation. Others
called themselves Theosophists, and professed to derive their
knowledge from divine illumination or inspiration. Fraud and hy-
pocrisy were encouraged, to secure the credit of the church among
the vulgar and ignorant. Nay, it became a rule: abroad, with the
people ; at home as you please.
GENERAL VIEW OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 21
At last in the fourteenth and fifteenth century, the taste for po-
lite literature revived in Italy, and the bold reformers in Germany
endeavored to correct the errors and corruption of religion. Lu-
ther perceived the connexion of philosophy and religion, and de-
clared, that it would be impossible to reform the church without
entirely abolishing the canons and decretals, and with them the
scholastic theology, philosophy and logic, and without instituting
others in their stead. Luther, Paracelsus, Ramus and Gassendi
were eminent demolishers of the Aristotelian philosophy.
After the revival of letters and restoration of sciences, Bacon,
Descartes and Leibnitz were eminent in philosophy. Bacon be-
came the great reformer and founder of true philosophy. He
established observation and induction as the basis of knowledge,
whilst the essentials of Descartes' philosophy, like those of many
predecessors, were thought, and the knowledge obtained by thought.
Leibnitz, like Plato, never arranged his philosophy methodically,
yet he admitted two kinds of perceptions: one without and the
other with consciousness ; farther, he considered the knowledge
procured by the senses as· individual, accidental and changeable,
but that obtained by thinking and reasoning as general, necessary
and positive. According to Leibnitz the reasoning power is en-
dowed with principles, all phenomena are intellectual, and there is
a harmony pre-established between the knowledge apriori and ex-
ternal sensations. The latter only quicken the former. Phrenol-
ogy denies the established harmony of Leibnitz between innate
ideas and external sensations; it considers sensations and ideas as
acquired, and admits only innate dispositions to acquire sensations
and ideas. Yet it admits also a kind of pre-established harmony,
concerning existence, between the special powers and the object
of their satisfaction. ·wherever there is a power, it finds an object.
This has been the cause, that many philosophers have derived the
powers from their objects of satisfaction. There are objects to
be perceived ; these were said to be the cause of the perceptive
power, whilst the power of perceiving and the object of being
perceived exist separately and are only calculated for each other.
22 PHILOSOPHY m· THE MIND.
There may, however, be many objectivities which man cannot
percieve for want of special powers.
Hobbes was persecuted for his theological and political here·
sies, and therefore his views of philosophy were neglected, though
Locke borrowed from him >orne of his most important observations
on the association of ideas. According to Malebranche, God is
wherever there is mind, and God is the medium of sensation.
Malebranche furnishes to Locke his notions on habits and genius,
to Hartley his theory on vibrations, and to Berkley the ancient
theory of Pyrrho, viz. that the material objects have no other ex_..
istence than in the mind.
Locke's philosophy became the basis of the greate1· number of
philosophical opinions in England and France. lie denied the
innate ideas and innate principles of morality, and maintained with
Aristotle* that all knowledge hegins with experience, or that all
prjmary notions begin with sensation. According to him, the
mind begins with external sensations, and then by means of its
perception, retention, contemplation, comparison, reflection, or
by its faculties of composing and abstracting, it executes all the
particular operations of thinking and volition. In his system even
the feelings and moral principles result mediately from the under-
standing. •
Loe'ke has some merit; he is a great lover of truth, and his work
contains many judicious remarks brought together from various
quarters, and he has greatly contributed to do away the rubbish of
a learned jargon about the innate ideas and Platonic mysticism.
But there is a want of originality, consistency and precision in
his work. He is a wordy commentator of Bacon, Hobbes and
l\Ialebranche. The besetting sin of all his compositions is diffuse·
ness and indistinctness.-1-Iobbes had compared the mind with a
slate, Locke compared it with a white paper. This prepared the
errors of Condillac, who gave all to the senses; and to tiJOse of
Dr. Hartley who explained the operations of the mind by vibrations,
and who thought ' that all the most complex ideas arise from sen-
* Nihil est iu intellectu quod non prius fuerit in senstL
GENERAL VIEW OF II!ENTAL PHILOSOPHY. 23
sation, and that reflection is not a distinct source, as Mr. Locke
makes it.'
I think with Dugald Stewart that the work of Locke has been
more applauded than studied. The French writers, particularly
Voltaire, have most contributed to his celebrity. Voltaire said
that Locke alone had developed the human understanding, and he
calls him the Hercules of metaphysicians ; yet the French did not
understand the basis of Locke's philosophy, when they maintained
that he denied the innate dispositions of the mind, and when they
c-onfounded Condillac's philosophy with that of Locke.
Among the Scotch philosophers the most remarkable are, Hume,
who not only confined all knowledge to mere eY:oerience, but also
denied the necessity of causation ;-Dr. Reid, who speaks of intel-
lectual and active powers of man ;-Dugald Stewart, who deserves
more credit for his style than for his ideas ;-and Dr. Th. Brown.
The principal modern schools of philosophy in Germany, are
the critical philosophy, the transcendental idealism, and the philos-
ophy of nature. Kant, the founder of the critical philosophy,
distinguished· two kinds of knowledge, one experimental (Kritik
der reinen Vermtnft,) and another founded on belief (Kritik der
practischen Vernunft.) He maintained that the first kind is only
relative, subjective, or phenomenal, or that we know only the rela-
tion of the subject to the object; that we do not know either the sub-
ject or the object in itself, but both in their mutual relations only,
and that this relation constitutes their reality to us. The subject
~e conceived endowed with particular categories which ar·c applied
to the object ; whatever is general and necessary in knowledge
belonged to the subject, while the particular and variable is the
attribute of the object. Hence all experimental knowledge is
founded upon dualism ; upon the union of the subject and object ;
for, even the categories, though inherent in the subject, and con
ceived by the mind from within, acquire objective reality only by
their application to the object. Kant, though he considered both
subject and object, had, however, the subject more in mind than
the object. He reduced all categories or forms, according to
.24 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
which the mind acquires experimental knowledge, to four kinds-
to quantity, quality, relation, and modality; of these the two first
concern objects in general, and the two last the relations of objects
to each other and to our understanding. Thus Kant admits notions
independent of experience, as conceptions of space, time, cause,
and others ; and considers these conceptions, not as the result of
external impressions, but of the faculties of the subject : they exist
from within, and by their means we are acquainted with the objects.
Our notions of morality, of God, and of immortality, are not experi-
mental, but belong to the practical understanding, and originate a
pnon. Liberty is a postulatum.
Fichte went farther, and taught the system of transcendental
idealism, according to which all certainty and reality is confined to
the subject, who has knowledge only of his own modifications, and
by means of abstraction and reflection, arrives at intellectual in-
tuition.
The philosophy of nature of Schelling rejects subject and object,
makes no abstraction or reflection, but begins with intellectual in-
tuition, and professes to know objects immediately in themselves.
It does not consider the objects as existing but as originating ; it
constructs them speculatively a priori. Absolute liberty and ex-
istence without qualities, are the basis of this system.
As the philosophy of Locke has hitherto prevailed in England,
as it has given occ.asion to that of Condillac, and as the system of
Dr. Th. Brown admits more fundamental powers of the mind than
any former philosophy, I shall compare them with phrenology.
I agree with both authors in placing truth above any other con-
sideration, and in maintaining that we cannot examine the mind
in itself, but are confined to the contemplation of the mental phe-
nomena.
Locke and Brown consider the functions of the external senses
as dependent on the nervous system, but the other mental opera-
tions as indepen1:1ent of organization ; whilst phrenology proves
that every mental phenomenon depends on some bodily condition
or organ, after the example of the external senses.
GENERAL VIEM' OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. .25
Locke admits in the mind understanding and will ;-Dr. Brown,
intellect and emotions. The subdivision of understanding by
Locke is into perception, retention or memory, contemplation or
judgment and imagination ; and that of will into various degrees,
from simple desire to passion. The subdivision of intellect by Th.
Brown is, 1st, into simple suggestions, including every association
of ideas, concer.tion, memory, imagination, habit, and all concep-
tions and feelings of the past; and Zd, into relative suggestions of
coexistence or of succession ; the former of which include the sug-
gestions of resemblance or difference, of position, of degree, of
proportion, and of the relation which the whole bears to its parts;
and of which the second comprehends judgment, reason and ab-
straction. His subdivision of emotions is into immediate, retro-
spective and prospective. He admits a greater number of primi-
tive emotions independent of intellect, and in this respect he comes
nearer phrenology than any other philosopher ; he also calls the
division of Locke into understanding and will, illogical. Thus in
the great division of the mental phenomena he agrees with phrenol-
ogy, which positively has the priority over him. But Dr. Brown's
subdivisions of the mental phenomena are very different from the
phrenological analysis and classification. Farther, Dr. Brown con-
siders the various emotions of the mind independently of brain.
His philosophy therefore coincides with phrenology only in the
first principle, viz. in admitting mental phenomena different from
the intellectual states of mind ; but his philosophy can never be
confounded with phrenology.
Locke denied the innate ideas and the innate moral principles.
I agree with him in that respect, but he admits only innate disposi-
tions for ideas, and derives tbe moral principles from them, whilst
I admit also innate moral dispositions, which are as essential to the
conception of moral principles as the innate intellectual disp05itioos
to the formation of ideas.
The reason wby Locke denied the innate max1ms of morality,
viz. because certain children or adults and certain nations are with-
out them or possess them variously modified, is not at all valuable,
4
26 PHILOSOPHY OF TH& MIND.
since innate faculties may be inactive on account of the defective
developement of their respective organs, and their functions may be
modified by their combined operation with other faculties.
Locke derives the primitive activity of the mind, from external
impressions on the senses ; phrenology on the contrary, in admit-
ting external senses and two orders of internal faculties, maintains
that the internal dispositions, though they may be excited by ex-
ternal impressions, are often active by their own inherent power
alone. According to Locke, moral principles must be proved. I
think they must be felt. It is to be remarked that according to
phrenology, there is an internal and spontaneous or instinctive ac·
tivity, independent of external impressions, as far as the feelings
are concerned, but also as the intellectual faculties and experimen·
tal knowledge are implicated. The abstract conceptions or intui-
tive notions are furnished by the intellectual faculties themselves.
The notion of identity, for instance, or that the same is the same ;
that the whole is greater than the half; that two and two are four ,
that nothing can exist except in space ; that nothing can happen
except in time; and that there is nothing without a cause, &c.,
arc internal operations of mind as well as the instincts, propensities,
and seutiments.
Another essential difference between Locke, Dr. Brown and all
other philosophers on one side, and phrenology on the other, is
that the former think that we perceive the existence of external ob-
jects and their original qualities, such as size, figure, mobility, num-
ber, color, &c., by means of the five senses and their impressions
alone ; whilst I treat of the immediate and mediate functions of the
senses (See Vol. I. Art. external senses,) and ascribe very few
ideas to the external senses, but the greater number, as those of
size, figure, weight, color, order and number, to internal faculties.
Thus I admit in the mind external senses by which the mind and
the external world are brought into communication, and made mu-
tually influential. The internal faculties are feelings and intellect.
Both sorts may act by their internal power, or may be excited by
appropriate impressions from without. The knowledgo of our
RECTIFICATION. 27
feelings is as pos1t1ve as the experimental from without. Every
determinate action of any faculty depends on two conditions, the
faculty and the object. The intellectual faculties are perc,ptive
and reflective. The feelings and perceptive faculties are in relation
and adapted to the external world, whilst the reflective faculties are
applied to the feelings and experimental knowledge and are destined
to bring all the particular feelings and notions into harmony.
From this summary view of philosophy it follows, that the an-
cient philosophers were principally occupied with theogony, cos-
mogony, physics, logic, dialectics, ethics and politics, and tho.t in
reference to man they examined his intellectual operations, moral
actions and social relatione, ra•11er than his nature.
Though this important object-the basis of all political sciences
-has been investiga!ed by later philosophers, its study will be
newly modelled and its principles established by phrenology, in
showing a posteriori the nature, number and origin of the human
faculties, the conditions of their operations, their mutual influence,
their modes of acting, and the natmal laws by which their manifes-
tations are regmated. I condude this chapter with D 'Alembert, in
saying, that hith~rto there has heen a great deal. of philosophizing ;n
which there is but little philosophy.
CHAPTER II.
RECTIFICATION OF PARTICULAR VIEWS OF PHILOSOPHERS.
IN order to prosecute advantageously the study of the mental
functions, a capital error must be avoided,-an error which pre-
vails in t~e systems of all philosophers, and which consists in their
having been satisfied with general ideas, and not, like naturalists,
having admitted three sorts of notions : general, common, and spe-
cial. This distinction is essential to the classification of beings into
kingdoms, classes, orders, genera, and species. In knowing the
28 PHILOSOPHY m· THE MINIJ.
general qualities of inanimate objects, such as extension, configur-
ation, consistency, color,-even in knowing the common qualities
of metals, earths, or acids ; we are not yet made acquainted with
iron, copper, chalk, or vinegar. To indicate a determinate body,
its specific qualities must be exposed. In natural history it is not
sufficient to say that we possess a stone, a plant, an animal, a bird,
&c., it is indispensable to mention the species of each possessed,
and if varieties exist, to state even their distinctive characters.
In the study of the human body, general and common notions
are also distinguished and separated from those which are partic-
ular ; the body is divided into several systems, such as the muscu-
lar, osseous, nervous, glandular, &c.; determinate functions, too,
are specified, as the secretion of snliva, of bile, tears, &c. But
this distinction between general, common, and special notions is
entirely neglected in the study of the mind, and even in that of the
functions which in animals take place with consciousness.
Instinct.
Zoologists divide and subdivide the organization of the beings
they study, and determine tbe structure of each particularly, but they
consider their animal life in a manner quite general. "Whatever is
done with consciousness is explained by means of the wot·d in-
stinct. Animals eat and drink, and construct habitations by instinct;
the nightingale sings, the swallow migrates, the hamster makes
provision for the winter, the chamois places sentinels, sheep live
in society, &c., and all by instinct. This is certainly a very easy
manner of explaining facts; instinct is the talisman which produces
every variety in the actions of animals. The knowledge convey-
ed, however, is general, and therefore completely ''ague. "What
is instinct ? Is it a personified being, an entity, a principle ? or
does the word, according to its Latin etymology, signify only an
internal impulse to act in a certain way in ignorance of the cause?
I take it in the latter signification ; thus the word instinct denotes
every inclination to act arising from within.
RECTIFICATION. 29
Instincts, moreover, are merely effects, and do not express pe-
culiar causes producing determinate inclinations. In stating that
one animal sings and that another migrates, we specifY some sorts
of instincts, but leave their individual causes undetermined. The
term instinct may be compared with that of motion. Planets re-
volve round the sun ; the moon round the earth; the magnetic
needle points towards the north ; rivers fall into the ocean; animals
walk, run, or fly; the blood circulates; and all these phenomena
are conjoined with the idea of motion. Motion certainly attends
on all, just as the actions of animals are always joined with instinct,
but the causes of the various motions and of the different instincts
are not alike, and must, therefore, be looked for and specified.
Finally, it is an error to say that animals act solely by instinct.
It is true that some of their doings, such as the labors of insects,
are the result of mere instinctive powers, but many animals modi-
fY their actions according to external circumstances ; they even
select one among different motives, and often resist their internal
impulsions or instincts. A dog may be hungry, but with the op-
portunity he will not eat, because he remembers the blows which
he has received for having done so under similar circumstances.
If, in following his master, he is separated from him by a carriage,
he does not throw himself under the feet of the horses or its wheels,
but waits till it has passed, and then by increasing his speed he
overtakes his master.
This shows that some animals act with understanding. On the
other hand, though new-born children cry, and suck the finger, they
certainly do not act from understanding. And, if men of great ge·
nius manifest talents without knowing that such faculties exist; if
they calculate, sing, or draw, without any previous education, do they
not so by some internal impulse or instinct, as well as the animals
which sing, build, migrate, and gather provisions ? Instinct, then,
is not confined to animals, and understanding is not a prerogative
of mankind.
The above reflections on instinct elucidate the ideas entertained
by philosophers generally in regat·d to the mind and its faculties.
30 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Many of them reduce all the mind's operations to sensation, and
all its faculties to sensibility; others call this general. faculty under-
standing, or intellect.
Understanding.
"\Ve must make reflections on understanding similar to those
already made on instinct. There are, in the first place, different
sorts of understanding, which may exist independent of each other.
Great painters cannot always become great musicians ; profound
mathemat;ci~ns may be without any talent for poetry; and excellent
generals may be miserable legislators. Hence, in the study of
man, it is necessary to specify the different kinds of understanding
or sensation. For, if we say, with Destut de Tracy, that memory,
judgment, and imagination, are only modifications of sensation and
the effects of unknown causes, it is still necessary to specify the
kinds of sensation; since sensations of hunger, friendship, hatred,
anger, or compassion, and knowledge of forms, colors, localities,
&c., cannot be of one and tl1e same sort, any more than the
senses of feeling, smelling, tasting, hearing, and seeing. Thus,
then, it is necessary to specify the various internal, as well as the
external senses.
Moreover, the causes of the different kinds of understanding
must also be pointed out, and new observations in consequence
become necessary. Finally, I repeat, that man doe~ not always
act with understanding. Suddenly threatened by any danger, the
limbs are drawn back before there has been time to think of the
means of escape. All the gestures and peculiar sounds which ac,
company the rather energetic expression of the sentiments, are as
involuntary as the feelings themselves, and •by no means the effect
of understanding. \'Vho can say that he always acts with under·
standing ? \'Ve too often choose the worse even in knowing the
better.
The greater number of philosophers explain the actions of man
upon the supposition of two fund~ental powers : understanding
RECTIFICATION. 31
and will. They, however, merit the same reproach as the zoolo·
gists who consider the actions of animals as effects of instinct,
and those of man as effects of understanding alone. They attach
themselves to generalities, and neglect particulars ; they ought,
however, to specify the kinds of will as well as those of under-
standing. For it cannot be the same faculty which makes us love
ourselves and our neighbors, which is fond of destroying and of
preserving, which feels self-esteem or seeks others' approbation.
Moreover, the causes of the different kinds of love and of will,
which are taken at one time in a good, at another in a bad accept-
ation, must be laid open.
Many philosophers who consider understanding and will as the
fundamental powers of the mind, have conceived particular modes
of action in each of them. In understanding they admit percep·
tion, com:eption, memory, judgment, imagination, and attention,
-one of the most important of these modified operations ; to the
will they ascribe sensuality, selfishness, vanity, ambition, and the
love of arts and sciences, in proportion as understanding is enlight-
ened and external circumstances modified.
All philosophical considerations on the mind hitherto entertained
have been general ; and whilst the study of the understanding has
especially engaged one class of thinkers, another has devoted it·
self to that of the will, principally as embracing the doctrine of'our
duties. The proceeding of either was fallacious. They have
always taken effects for causes, and confounded modes of action,
in quantity or quality, with fundamental faculties. They have
also overlooked one of the most important conditions to the exhi-
bition of affective and intellectual powers, viz. the organization of
the brain. They considered the functions of the external senses
in connexion with organization, but were not aware that all phe·
nomena of mind are subject to the same condition.
The first of these classes of philosophers is styled ldealogists,
the second .Moralists. This separation, and the consequent de·
struction of that harmony.which ought to reign between the two,
are to be lam~nted. ' Idealogists and moralists differ not only in
32 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
their pursuits, but each criminates the other, and endeavors to con·
fine him within certain limits. ltlealogists deride the studies of
Moralists, and these often decry Idealogists as the greatest ene-
mies of mankind.
.i\lany ponderous volumes are filled with their several opinions.
I shall only consider, in a summary way, the most striking of their
particular views, and begin with those of ldealogists.
I. Consciousness and Sensation.
Speculative philosophers incessantly speak of single conscious-
ness and of there being nothing but consciousness and sensation
in animal life. Dr. Reid and others consider consciousness as a
separate faculty, and Condillac reduced all phenomena of mind
to sensation, so that his philosophy is to mind what alchymy was
to matter. Now though it be true, in a general way, that all op-
erations of the mind are accompanied with consciousness, it by no
means follows that consciousness of the impressions is one of its
fundamental faculties. Consciousness is a general term, and is an
effect of the activity of one or several mental faculties. Jt is iden-
tic with mind and exists in all its operations : in perception, atten-
tion, memory, judgment, imagination, association, sympathy, an-
tipathy, pleasure, pain, in affections and passions. Mind cannot
be thought of without consciousness. There are various kinds of
consciousness, which are the special faculties of the mind, which
may be possessed separately or conjointly, and which must be
specified by philosophy.
II. Perception.
Two important questions present themselves : first, whether all
,he impressions which produce consciousness or sensation, come
from without, through the external senses ; and secondly, whether
all fundamental powers of the mind are perceptive, or have con-
sciousness of their peculiar and respective impressions, or whether
RECTIFICATION. 33
some of them procure impressions, the consciousness of which
is only obtained by the medium of other faculties ?
The majority of modern philosophers have investig&ted the per-
ceptions of external impressions only, which they consider as the
first and single cause of every varied mental function. The mind,
say they, is excited by external impressions, and then performs
various intellectual or voluntary acts. Some thinkers, however,
have recognised many pm·ceptions as dependent on merely inter-
nal impressions. Of this kind are the instinctive dispositions of
animals, and all ·the affective powers of man. Those who would
consider this subject in detail, may examine, in the first volume of
Phrenology, my ideas on the exteroal senses and on the affective
faculties. There it will be seen that I admit two sources of men-
tal activity; one external and the other internal.
An answer to the second question is given with more difficulty
than to the first. Dr. Reid with some of his predecessors, dis-
tinguished between sensation and perception. He understood by
the former the consciousness of the mind which immediately fol·
lows the impression of an external body on any of our senses ;
and by perception the reference of the sensation to its external
corporeal cause. Certain particles of odorous ma!ter act on the
olfactory nerve and produce a peculiar sensation. 'When this pe-
culiar sensation is referred to an object, for instance a rose, then it
is perception. Gall thinks that each external sense and each in-
ternal faculty has its peculiar consciousness, perception, memory,
judgment, and imagination; in short, that the modes of action are
alike in each external sense and in each organ of the brain. To
me, however, the individual faculties of the mind do not seem to
have the same modes of action ; I conceive that the functions of
several faculties are confined to the procuring of impressions which
are perceived by other faculties. The instinct of alimentativeness
and all the fundamental faculties, which I call affective, seem des-
tined only to produce impressions, which accompanied with con·
sciousness are called inclinations, wants, or sentiments. The
affective functions arc blind and involuntary, and have no know·
5
34 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
ledge of the objects respectively suited to satisfy their activity ; th9
nerves of hunger do not know aliments ; nor circumspection, the
object of fear ; nor veneration, the object deserving its application,
&c. &c. Even supposing the affective powers had an obscure
consciousness of their own existence, a point which, by·the-bye,
is not proved, it is still certain that the intellectual faculties alone
procure clear consciousness. The internal senses of individuality
and eventuality, combined with those of comparison and cau·
sality, determine the species of both internal and external percep·
tions. As it is, however, much more difficult to specify the inter-
nal than the external sensations, the species of the former have
remained almost entirely unknown to philosophers.
Thus, perception is an essential constituent in the nature of the
intellectual faculties generally, and one of their particular modes
of activity; yet it is no special faculty of the mind; it is a mere
effect of activity in the perceptive powers.
From the preceding considerations, it follows that in my opinion
every fundamental faculty of the mind is not perceptive, consequent-
ly I make a distinction between percepti,·e powers and kinds of
perception. There are as many sorts of perceptions as fundamen-
tal functions, but the intellectual faculties alone seem to be per-
ceptive.
It is remarkable that consciousness and perception are not always
single, that in the same person they may be healthy with respect
to some faculties and diseased with respect to others. There are
also cases on record, where persons subject to nervous fits, com-
pletely forget what occurs during the paroxysms, when these are
over; and remember perfectly during subsequent paroxysms, what
has happened during preceding fits. The same phenomenon is re-
lated of the state of persons under the influence of animal magnet-
ism. ,Mr.,Combe mentions the fact observed by Dr. Abel in an
Irish porter to a warehouse, who forgot when sober, what he had
done when drunk, but who, being drunk again, recollected the
transactions of his former state of intoxication. On one occasion,
being drunk, he had lost a parcel of some value, and in his sober
RECTIFICATION. 35
moments could give no account of it. Next time he was intoxi-
cated he recollected that he had left the parcel at a certain house,
and :here being no address on it, it had remained there safely and
was got on hi" callii1g for it. It seems that, before recollection
can exist, the organs require to be in the same state they were in
when the impression was first received.
III. Jlttention.
Almost all philosophers speak of attention as a primitive power
of the mind, active throughout all its operations, and the basis on
which observation and reAection repose. 'It is attention,' says
lleh·etius,* 'mot·e or less active, which fixes objects more ot· less
in the memory.' According to Vicq d'Azyr, apes and monkeys
are turbulent, because they have no attention. Dr. Reid t makes
a distinction between attention and consciousness, calling the first
a voluntary, the second an involuntary act ; whilst other philoso-
phers, with Locke, confound these two mental phenomena. Dr.
Brown confounds attention with desire; he thinks that without
desire there can be no attention.
To all that has been said upon attention as a faculty of the mind,
I reply, that attention, in none of its acceptations, is a single facul-
ty; for if it were, he who possesses it in a particular sense should
be able to apply it universally. But how does it happen that an
individual, animal or man, pays great attention to one object, and
very little or none to another ? Sheep never attend to philosophy
or theology; and while the squirrel and ringdove see a hare pass
with indifference, the fox and eagte eye it with attention. The
instinct to live on plants or flesh produces unlike sorts of attention.
In the human kinrl, individuals are influenced in their attention to
different objects, even by sex and age : little girls prefer dolls,
ribands, &c., as playthings; boys like horses, whips, and drums.
One man is pleased with philosophic discussion, another with witty
* De 1'esprit, ch. de l'inegole capacitC de !'attention.
f E!!Says on the Intellectual Powers ofMan, p. 60.
36 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
conversation ; one with the recital of events which touch the heart,
and another with accounts ofsanguinary battles, and so on.
The word attention denotes no more than the active state of
any intellectual faculty; or, in other terms, attention is the effect
of the intellectual faculties, acting either from their proper force,
or from being excited by external impressions, or by one or sev-
eral affective faculties. Hence there are as many species of atten-
tion as fundamental faculties of the mind. He who has an active
faculty of configuration, of locality, or of coloring, pays attention
to the objects respectively suited to gratify it. In this manner we
conceive why. attention is so different, and also why it is impossi-
ble to succeed in any pursuit or undertaking without attention. It
is, indeed, absurd to expect success in an art or science, when the
individual power on which its comprehension depends is inactive.
Again, the more active the power is, the more it is attentive.
The affective faculties, though they have no clear consciousness,
yet excite the intellectual faculties, and thereby produce attention.
The love of approbation, for instance, may stimulate the faculty
of artificial, language ; boys who are fond of applause will be apt to
study with more attention and perseverance than those who are
without such a motive.
Thus, perception and attention, though both modes of activity,
may be distinguished from each other, as perception denotes
knowledge of the external and internal impressions in a passive
manner, or, as perceptivity or passi\·e capability of Kant, whilst at-
tention indicates the active state of the intellectual faculties and
their application to their respective objects, or spontaniety, in
Kant's language.
IV. •Memory.
Memory is another mental operation, which has, at all times,
occupied speculative philosophers. Those, too, who have written
on education have given it much consideration. It is treated of
as a faculty which collects the individual perceptions, and recalls
RECTIFICATION. 37
them when wanted ; and is further considered as being assisted by
the faculties of attention and association. Memory varies more in
its kind than any other of the intellectual faculties recognised by
philosophers. It is notorious that some children occasionally Jearn
long passages of books by heart with great facility, who cannot
recollect the persons they have seen before, nor the places they
have visited. Others, again, remember facts or events, while
they cannot recall the dates at which they happened ; and, on the
contrary, this latter sort of knowledge gives great pleasure to
others. The Jesuits, observing nature, consequently admitted a
memory of facts, a local memory, a verbal memory, and so on.
Even the causes of these differences in memory were looked for.
Malebranche supposed, some peculiar and modified state of the
cerebral organization to explain the facts, such as softness and flex·
ibility of the cerebral fibres in youth, their hardness and stiffness in
old age, &c.
Is memory, then, a fundamental power of the mind? Gall
thinks not ; he considers it as the second degree of activity of
every organ and faculty; and therefore admits as many memories
as fundamental faculties.
My opinion also is, that memory is not a fundamental faculty,
but the repetition of some previous perception, and a quantitive
mode of action. The question arises whether memory takes place
among both the affective and intellectual faculties. It is true the
affective powers act without clear consciousness, and the mind can·
not call up into fresh existence the perceptions experienced from
the propensities and sentiments with the same facility as the per-
ceptions of the intellectual powm·s·; yet it renews them more or
less, and consequently, I cannot confine the mode of action under
discussion to the intellectual faculties. However, I distinguish
between the faculties which have clear memory and the species of
n0tions remembered : the perceptive faculties alone have clear
memory, and all kinds of perceptions are remembered. Further,
as the intellectual faculties do not all act with the same energy'
memory necessarily varies in kind and strength in each and in everv
38 PHILOSOPHY OF THE 1\IJND.
indivsdual. No one therefore has an equally strong memory for
every branch of knowledge. Attention too, being another r.ame
for activity of tlse intellectual faculties applied to their respective
objects, naturally strengthens memory : viz. it facilitate• repetition.
Exercise of the faculties, it is further evident, must invigorate
memory, that is, repetition is made more easy. Let us now see
the difference between memory and
V. Reminiscence or remembrance.
"Ve have reminiscence, if we remember how certain perceptions
have been acquired, while memory consists in the perfect repro-
duction of fos·mer perceptions. Reminiscence is often taken for a
fundamental faculty of the mind ; sometimes, also, it is considered
as a modification of memory.
I neither consider reminiscence as a fundamental faculty, nor as
a modification of memory, but as the peculiar memory or repeti-
tion of the functions of eventuality, that faculty which takes cogni-
zance of the functions of all the others.
This view shows how we may have reminiscence, but no mem-
ory of the functions of our affective faculties. And also, how we
may remember having had a sensation which we cannot reproduce,
and repeat a perception without remembering how it had been
acquired. Thus we may recollect that we know the name of a per-
son without being able to utter it, and also repeat a song without
remembering where we learned it. The special intellectual facul
ties, in general, repeat their individual perceptions and produce
memory, while that of eventuality, in particular, recollects, or has
rem1mscence. Reminiscence, then, is to eventuality that which
each kind of memory is to the other intellectual faculties.
VI. Imagination.
This expression has several significations : it is employed to in-
dicate at one time a fundamental power, called also the faculty vf
RECTIFICATION. 39
mvention, and in this sense it is said to invent machinery, to com-
pose music and poetry, and in general to produce every new con-
ception. Imagination, again, is sometimes taken for the faculty of
recalling previously-acquired notions of objects. This signification
even corresponds to the etymoloJ!;y of the word : the images exist
interiorly. At another time imagination indicates a lively manner
of feeling and acting. Imagination, in fine, is a title given to facil-
ity of combining previous perceptions, and of producing new com-
positions.
To the preceding considerations I answer, that imagination is in
no case a fundamental faculty. There can be no single faculty of
invention, or else he who displays it in one ought to show it in all
arts and sciences. And it is notorious that powers of invention
are very different in the same as well as in different persons. A
mechanician who invents machines of stupendous powers, may he
almost ,yjthout musical talent, and a great geometrician may be
perfectly insensible to the harmony of tones ; whilst the poet who
can describe the most pathetic situations and arouse the feelings
powerfully, may be quite incapable of inventing mathematical prob-
lems. .Man, it is certain, can only invent, or perfect, according
to the sphere of activity of the peculiar faculties he possesses ; and
therefore there can be no fundamental power of invention. Each
primitive faculty has its laws, and he who is particularly endowed
in a high degree, often finds effects unknown before ; and this is
called invention. Imagination is, consequently, no more than a
quantiti,•e mode of action of the primitive faculties, combined par-
ticularly with those of causality and comparison. Inventions are,
probably, never made by individu:rl faculties ; several commonly
act together in establishing the necessary relations between effects
and causes.
The fundamental faculties sometimes act spontaneously, or by
their internal power, and this degree of activity is then called im-
agination also. In this sense imagination is as various in its kinds
as <he primitive faculties. Birds build their nests, or sing, without
having been taught, and men of great minds do acts which they
40 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
had never either seen or heard of. In calling the degree of activ·
ity of the faculties which produces these efTects imagination, it is
still a mere result of existing individual powers. All that has been
said of imagination, as the faculty of recalling impressions, is refer-
rible to the mode of action styled memory of the intellectual facul-
ties, and is not an efTect of any single power.
Finally, imagination, used synonymously with exaltation, or
poetic fire, results from activity of the fundamental faculty which
I call ideality, and to the consideration of which mental power in
Vol. I. of Phrenology, I refer my reader for farther information.
From the preceding reflections on perception, attention, mem-
ory, and imagination, it follmn, that they are quantitive modes of
action of the fundamental faculties, each of which may act spon·
tancously, or be roused by external impressions. The intellectual
faculties alone perceive or know impressions, and being directed
towards the objects of which respectively they have cognizance,
produce attention ; repeating notions already perceived, they exert
memory; and being so active as to cause effects as yet unknown,
1hey may be said to elicit imagination.
VII. Judgment.
Judgment is commonly believed to be a fundamental power of
the mind. It is said to have been given to counterbalance imag-
ination and the passions, and to rectify the errors of intellect.
Memory and judgment are sometimes also maintained to exclude
each other, but experience shows this opinion to be erroneous, for
some persons possess excellent memory as well as great judgment.
These two kinds of manifestations, however, may also exist sep-
arately ; and the conclusion then follows, that they are neither the
~arne faculty nor the same mode of action. Let us first see wheth-
»r judgment be a fundamental power or not.
Gall, observing that the same person may possess excellent
judgment of one kind, and have little or none of another, that
a great judge of mathematics. for instance, may have almost no
RECTIFICATION. 41
capacity to judge of colors or of tones, considers judgment as the
third degree of activity of every fundamental faculty; and admitting
as many kinds.of judgment as special faculties, denies it the pre-
rogative of being looked on as a primitive power. In his opinion,
every fundamental faculty bas four degrees of activity: the first is
perception ; the second, memory ; the third, judgment ; and the
fourth, imagination.
I, myself, neither consider judgment as a fundamental f.1culty,
nor with Gall,.as a degree of activity, or as a mode of action to
every faculty. Judgment cannot be a quantitive mode, and cer-
tainly not the third in degree, for some individuals judge very ac-
curately of impressions as soon as perceived, without possessing
the memory of them to a great extent ; and others, with an excel-
lent memory of particular kinds of impressions, judge very indiffer-
ently of the same. It even happens that certain faculties are in the
highest degree, or spontaneously, active, while tl1e judgment in
relation to these very powers is bad. In other cases, the faculties
are exceedingly active, and also judge with perfect propriety.
Moreover, judgment _cannot be an attribute of every fundamental
faculty of the mind, since the affective powers, being blind, neither
recollect nor judge their actions. ·what judgments have physical
love, pride, circumspection, and all the other feelings ? They re-
quire to be enlightened by the understanding, or intellectual facul-
ties; and on this account it is, that when left to themselves they
occasion so many disorders. And not only does this remark apply
to the inferior but also to the superior affective powers ; to hope
and veneration, as well as to the love of approbation and circum-
spection ; we may fear things innocent or noxions, and venerate
idols as well as the God of the true Christian.
I conceive, then, that judgment is a mode of action of the intel-
lectual faculties only; and not a mode of quantity but of quality.
The hetter to understand my meaning, let us observe, that there is
a relation between external objects themselves, and also between
external objects and the affective and intellectual faculties of man
and animals. These relations are even determinate, and in their
1)
42 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
essence invariable ; they admit modifications only. Hunger and
aliment, this and digestion have a mutual relation. Now, if these
relations are seen to be perfect and to exist as they are usually
found, we say the function is good or healthy. If the sense of
taste approve of aliments which man commonly employs and di-
gests, the taste is good and perfect ; but there is disorder or aber-
ration whenever the functions depart from their ordinary modes of
manifesting themselves ; if, for instance, the taste select articles
generally esteemed filthy or unfit for food, such as chalk, charcoal,
tallow, &c. it is disordered or bad.
The intellectual faculties are in relation with the affective pow-
ers and with external obj~cts, and their functions are subject to
determinate laws. The faculties of coloring and of melody cannot
arbitrarily be pleased, the one with every disposition of colors, and
the other with every combination of tones. Now, the functions
of the intellectual faculties may be perfect or imperfect, that is, be
in harmony, or the contrary, with their innate laws, and tbe product
of these two states announced is judgment ; for the intellectual fac-
ulties alone know their own and the relations of the affective pow-
ers with the external world. The expression judgment, however,
it must be observed, is used to indicate as well the power of per-
ceiving the relations that subsist between impressions themselves,
as the manner in which this power is affected by these. \Ve dis-
tinguish different savors from each other, and we feel the different
impressions they make. In both these operations we judge. The
same thing holds in regard to all the perceptive faculties : they
perceive the relations of their appropriate and peculiar impressions,
and recognise the effect this act of perception produces. The
faculty of coloring, for instance, perceives several colors, and is
then affected agreeably or disagreeably ; in consequence, it ap-
proves or disapproves of their arrangement. The perception of
any relation whatever is the essence ofjudgment.
The judgment of the faculties which perceives the physical qual-
ities of external objects, even of tones or melody, is also called
taste. We are said to ha\'e a good or a bad taste, or judgment, in
RECTIFICATION. 43
t:oloring, drawing, and music, in speaking of forms, propor-
tions, &c.
Each perceptive faculty feels impressions and relations of one
kind only ; that of configuration knows forms ; that of coloring col-
ors ; and that of tune tones. The judgment, or the more or less
healthy action of each, is in like manner confined to its special
function. There are consequently as many kinds of judgment as
perceptive faculties, and one kind must not be confounded with
another. The regular and perfect manifestation of the functions
of the two reflective powers, however, examining the relations of
all the intellectual and affective faculties to their respective objects,
and the relations of the various powers among themselves, partic-
ularly deserves the name judgment ; it essentially constitutes tl1e
philosophic judgment, which is applicable to every sort of notion.
It is synonymous with reasoning. Comparison and causality being
the highest intellectual powers, and an essential and necessary part
of a reasonable being ; their perfect action or good judgment con-
sequently ranks above all other kinds of judgment. However,
reason or the reilective faculties in themselves are not infallible ;
they may be deceived by the erroneous notions and feelings on
which they operate. Sound and true reasoning requires two things;
first, sound reflective faculties ; and second, exact notions and just
feelings, viz. sound premises.
VIII. Jlssociation.
Several philosophers in Great Britain, and especially Dugald
Stewart, have lately spoken much of a peculiar faculty of associa-
tion. They have examined the laws of its activity, and ascribed
to it a great influence on our manner of thinking and feeling ; they
have even considered it as the cause of the sublime and beautiful.
These propositions I conceive are erroneous ; association, in
my opinion, being only an effect of the mutual influence of the fun-
damental faculties. One being active, excites another, or several,
and the phenomenon is association ; which·occurs not only among
44 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
the intellectual faculties, when what is called association of ideas
results, but also among tbe affective and intellectual together ; and,
indeed, among all the fundameutal faculties. The sight of a rose
may recall one we love ; ambition may excite courage, or an in-
tellectual faculty; artificial signs may arouse the percepti1·e facul-
ties ; and these, in their turn, make us remember arbitrary signs.
Assoeiation is a phenomenon of some importance in the practical
part of anthropology; and when I come to speak of the modifica-
tions of the mental functions, I shall enter into its consideration at
some length.
The principles of association are the same as those of sympathy.
Faculties whose organs are situated near each other, or which act
at the same time, will readily excite one another. Faculties also,
which contribute to the same peculiar function, will be apt to exert
a mutual influence. The strongest of the faculties will further ex-
cite and overwhelm the weaker with ease.
The mutual influence or association of the fundamental faculties
explains the principles of Mnemonics, or the science of artificial
memory, and shows its impm1ance. To enable us to recall ideas
or words, we may call in any of our other faculties, which acts
with great energy, to assist. If that of locality, for instance, be
vigorous, ideas will be easily recollected through the assistance
of localities ; that is, by associating ideas with localities. Local
memory will remember the peculiar ideas associated with particu-
lar places. The ·same means or faculties, however, it must be
understood, will not serve in every case. Individuals must sever-
ally make use of their strongest to excite their weakest pow-ers ;
one will employ form, a second color, a third places, and others
numbers, analogies of sounds, causes, and so on, with success.
This consideration in its whole extent may be kept in view with
l!dvantage in education. No intellectual faculty is ever to be
tutored singly, but all wbieh are necessary to the perfect under-
standing of a subject are to be exercised together. Geography
will aid the memory of events, and the reverse; and so on with
the rest.
RECTIFICATIO:\'. 45
Association also elucidates the common saying, 1Ve think in our
mother tongue. The meaning of this phrase is not determined ;
if language be supposed primitively to produce thought, a grave
error is committed ; for we tl1ink in no language ; the feelings and
ideas existed before the signs which express them, and we may
have feelings and thoughts without a term to make them known.
Language is only associated with the feelings and thoughts ; but as
this is done very frectucntly and with extreme rapidity, even in
conformity with the succession of thoughts, we are said to think in
our native language. The fact, however, is interesting in itself,
and pmves the importance of the mutual influence of the faculties.
Several of the modern languages, it is true, ha,·e a determinate
structure, and do not admit of inversions, and ideas L onsequently
follow regularly iri a certain order ; but ideas are not therefore
results of the signs by which they are expressed. It is obvious,
however,, that the structure of a language must give a peculiar
direction to the mental operations; and again, that the pre,·ailing
spitit or general mental constitution of every nation may be known
by its language. The French directs the mind especially to indi-
vidual objects and their qualities; the German, on the contrary,
forces it to combine, at once, all particular notions. Notwithstand-
ing these admitted eftects of language, signs must never be con-
founded with ideas, nor simultaneous action mistaken for identity.
The second idea which .1\Ir. Alison and others entertain of asso-
ciation as the source of the beautiful and of the pleasure that flows
from it, is also unsupported by observation. Pleasure does not
derive from association only. Every faculty is in relation to cer-
tain impressions ; these, being either in harmony with it, or the
reverse, produce pleasure or pain. The power of configuration
is pleased with certain forms, and displeased with others. The
faculty of coloring likes certain colors, and dislikes others. In the
same way impressions of tones are immediately pronounced agreea-
ble or disagreeable. The perceptive faculties are pleased by their
respective harmonious impressions.
On the other hand it is, however, certain that association may
46 PIIILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
increase or diminish the absolute pleasure or pain. Pleased with
a rose in itself, we may call it beautiful ; but the pleasure and the
beauty may still be heightened by recollections of the person who
planted or presented it. Impr·essions, little agreeable in them-
selves, may gain by association. A national air may rank very low
as a musical composition, and even offend a scientific ear, and
yet delight him, the scenes of whose boyhood, and of whose
home, the remembrances of whose relations and friends, it recalls.
IX. Categories.
Even those who recognise certain laws, or categories, accord-
ing to which the mind operates, confine too much their consider-
ations to general views. If Kant, in his treatise on Experimental
Knowledge, admits a category of quality, his conception is still
general. ·we know, it is true, the qualities of natural objects, but
there are various kinds of these, and none of them are either speci-
fied in Kant's philosophy, or considered as fundamental faculties
of the mind.
Idealogists have therefore recognised certain effects and modes
of action of the mental powet-s, and certain laws according to which
the mind acts, but few of the fundamental faculties. Among .the
categories of Aristotle and Kant those of space and time, and that
of causality by Kant, are fundamental faculties of Phrenology, hut
the others are mere modes of action and general conceptions. The
various conceptions of philosophers exist in nature, but they are
defective, nnd need rectification, that is, the faculties and their
modes ofacting must be specified and their existence demonstrated
by observation ; in this way alone will philosophy become appli-
cable to man in his social relations.
•Mm·alists.
Man must soon have felt that every kind of mental operation
could not be called intellectual. Philosophers have accordingly
RECTIFICATION. 47
acknowledged a second, and a different sort, which they name
Will.
Living in society, man is in relation with his parents, his friends,
his enemies, with those who are inferior or superior, and by an
innate power he examines his actions in a moral point of •·iew. In
conceiving supernatural beings, and admitting their influence on his
situation, he also contrived means to render himself agreeable
to them.
Those philosophers, then, who examine the moral conduct of
man, and its rules, viz. moralists, are particularly interested in the
knowledge, not only of the intellectual faculties and their modes of
action, but also of the inclinations and sentiments, of the affections
and pas')ions, of the motives of our actions, of the aim of our facul-
ties, and of the means of arriving at it. The study of moralists,
however, is not more exact than that of idealogists. Like them,
ignorant of the fundamental powers of the mind, tbey confound
modes of action with the faculties themseTves, disagree about the
origin of morality, its nature, and the means of advancing it ; the
philosophic doctrines of the will, affections and passions. I there-
fore begin with their elucidations.
X. Desire and Will.
Many philosophers •Jnderstand by the expression Will, all sorts
and all degrees of inclinations, desires, and sentiments. Moralists
commonly say that the will alone is the cause of our actions and omis-
sions, and even that mankind is degraded by any ether explanation
than this. The will is considered.as an entity and styled weak or
strong, good or bad. These terms, however, are vague, and re-
quire consideration.
In the common acceptation of the word, will is no more a funda-
mental power than the instinct of animals, it is only the effect of
every primitive faculty of tbe mind, and synonymous with desire ;
each faculty being acti,·e produces an inclination, a desire, or a
kind of will ; and in this signification there are as many species of
48 PltlLOSOPIIY OF THE MIND.
will as fundamental faculties ; the strength of each, too, is in pro-
portion to the activity of the individual faculties, and exists invol-
untarily. Such a sweeping and general acceptation of the term
·will, tben, is evidently defective.
That desire which O\'erwhelms the others is also called \Viii.
Now, in this sense, every faculty in its turn may become ·win. A
dog, for instance, is hungry, but having been punished for eating
the meat he found upon tbe table, he, without ceasing to feel appe-
tite, for fear of a repetition of the blows, does not indulge ; he de-
sires to eat, but he will not. iVill, therefore, in this acceptation,
cannot be any fundamental power, it is only an effect of the most
active powers.
Let us here ask, whether man in his healthy state of. mind is
compelled by nature to consider certain desires as superior and
others as inferior? The answer is affirmative. I shall detail this
point later, in speaking of the moral nature of man; meanwhile I
adopt it as quite positive, and only add th3t the preference given
is founded on intelligence which knows the different desires, and
determines the election which is made. Now by calling will the
mental operation which appreciates the value of the desires, and
chooses among them, it is evident that it depends on, and is pro-
portionate to, intellect ; hence, that it is not a fundamental faculty.
It is of the utmost importance to be aware that there is no
moral will without intelligence, though this does not constitute will,
and that will is no fundamental power, but the effect of the reflect-
ive faculties applied to the affective and perceptive power-s of the
mind.
· Legislation, in general, recognises intelligence as an indispensa-
ble condition of will. Idiots, and the insane, therefore, are not
answerable for their actions. All the affective faculties, indeed,
are blind, and dispose us to act according to pleasure, not accord-
ing to will, ''"hich may frequently be opposed to pleasure. In
conformity, the moral code of Christianity distingui~hes between
desires and will.
Let us for a moment suppose that will is a fundamental power,
RECTIFICATION. 49
and of a higher order than intellect ; but, on this hypothesis, how
can will act at one time in this and at another in the opposite di-
rection ? How happens it, that in one the will looks only for self-
ish gratifications, and in another for general happiness ? Can will
take a determinate direction without any cause ? Is it different in
Itself, or is it influenced by other causes-may it, for instance, be
excited by the feelings ? In this case, however, it would become
dependent and exposed to aberrations.
The Christian law commands the will to resist inferior tempt-
ations, and to follow the inspirations of the Spirit. Pious persons,
also, in their addresses to the Great Guiding Power, pray that
their will may be directed towards certain actions, and turned
away from others. This proves that they consider will as suscep-
tible of being influenced, and by no means as independent, and
acting without any cause. Such an independent will would, in-
deed, be a principle, and could have only one, never opposite
tendencies.
Thus, in the world, will has been separated from mere desires,
or from the aJfective faculties ; and intelligence been considered a
condition necessary to its manifestations. Yet intelligence does
not constitute will ; for a person with an excellent intellect may
take very little interest in the welfare of other beings. He may
acknowledge the better, and still incline and even yield to his in-
clination to pursue the worse. Two conditions then, the feelings
and intellect, are necessary to will ; in other terms, will consists in
the application of reason to the affective and perceptive faculties.
The greater numbet· of persons take their individual inclinations
and pleasures for will, forgetting th~t these give motives blindly and
involuntarily. 'Vc may, indeed, say, that the exhibition of true
will is very rare ; it is too generally in opposition to our \nclina-
tions. This state has been noticed by several moralists. 'The
spirit,' it is said, ' is willing, but the flesh is weak.'* 'For that
which I do,' says the Apostle Paul, 'I allow not: for what I
would, that do I not ; but what I hate, that do I.'t
* Ma.tt. xxvi. 41. I Rom. vii. 15.
7
50 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Here it is sufficient to know that will can neither be confounded
with the individual inclinations nor with intellect ; and that it is no
special faculty, hut the application of reason, or the reflective pow-
ers, to our desires and notions. I shall afterwards show that in
its true signification it is the basis of liberty.
XI. .B.ffections.
There is a great confusion of ideas in the works which treat of
the affections. The name affection is sometimes given to funda-
mental powers, as to physical love, to self-love, to the love of
approbation, and to hope. Affections are also confounded with
passions. Moreover, affections are occasionally put for the
pathognomical signs, which indicate different states of satisfac-
tion or discontent of the fundamental powers ; for instance, smiling,
laughing, sighing, yawning, shedding tears, &c.
I employ the word in none of the preceding significations, but
solely according to its etymology, to indicate the different states
of being affected of the fundamental powers. The sense of feef-
ing, for instance, may convey tickling, itching, burning, or lancina-
ting pain ; its various modes of sensation are affections. In the
same way the internal faculties may be differently affected.
The affections of the fundamental faculties may he divided into
qualitive an~ quantitive. The former may again be subdivided
into fi\'e sorts: 1st, general, which exist in each fundamental power;
2d, common, which inhere in several faculties ; 3d, special, which
belong to individual powers; 4th, simple or compound; finally,
5th, which are common to man and animals, and which are proper
and peculiar to man.
The guantitive affections may be snbdivided into two sorts : 1st,
the fundamental powers and their qualitive affections may be active
in very different degrees, from indolence to passion; and 2d, they
may act with more or less quickness and duration.
Among the qualitive and quantitive, and among the simple and
compound affections, we may also distinguish those which appear
RECTIFICATION. 51
in the state of health from those which occur in disease. Let us
now quote examples of each kind.
A general quantitive mode of action or affection is desire: each
faculty being active, desires ; hence, there are as many sorts of
desire as fundamental faculties. The sensations of pleasure and
pain are two sorts of general qualitive affections ; they are effects,
and happen, the former if any faculty be satisfied, the latter if its
desire be not complied with. There are consequently as many
kinds of pleasure and of pain as individual f.~culties.
The mode of being affected, called sentiment, is common to
several affective faculties. That known under the name of mem-
ory, belongs to the intellectual faculties. Fttry is common to com-
bativeness and destructiveness. Simple affections take place in
individual faculties. .B.ngcr, in my opinion, is a special affection
of combativeness or destructiveness ; fear, of circumspection;
compassion, of benevolence ; and repentance or remorse, of con-
scientiousness. Compound affections, on the contrary, depend
on the combined activity of several faculties; jealousy, for in-
stance, whose essence is egotism, is modified according to the
peculiar faculties which desire, as physical love, friendship, love
of approbation. Envy is another compound affection : it is jealousy
without benevolence ; it increases by the want of the superior
feelings. An envious person covets for himself alone ; he would
possess all enjoyments, to the entire exclusion of others ; while
a jealous man desires to enjoy and is especially careful not to lose
possession of the pleasure he enjoys.
The affections common to man and animals, and tnose proper
to man, depend on tl1e respective faculties. Anger, fear, jealousy,
envy, appear in man and animals, as the faculties to which these
affections belong inhere in both ; while adoration, repentance, ad-
miration, and shame, pertain, like the faculties from which they
arise, to man alone.
Let us now remark that the fundamental powers and their quali-
live affections may be more or less active or strong. The differ-
ent degrees of activity arc called velleity, desire, ardent desire,
52 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
passion; of the agreeable affections, pleasure, joy, and ecstasy;
and of the disagreeable affections, pain, grief, and misery.
The nervous irritability, which is styled sentimentality in friend-
ship, irascibility in courage, sensibility in benevolence, indicates
only a higher degree of excitability or activity of the fundamental
powers, and irregularity of application.
The affections may, further, be sudden and transitory, or slow
and durable. Finally, the difference of the affections in the
healthy and diseased state is easily understood. The complete
absence of a faculty may be called imbecility, if it never existed,
and fatuity, if it have been destroyed by disease. Fnry, mel-
ancholy, despair, and irresistibility of any inclination, are diseased
affections. But this subject is treated of at greater length in my
work on Insanity, and I shall not dwell longer on it here.
Physicians, as well as moralists, must study the doctrine of the
affections, on account of their influence on the vital functions and
on man's actions in society. The same may be said in regard to
the following article on
XII. Passions.
This word passion is commonly confounded with affection.
1Vhat I have stated upon the affections, however, being known,
the signification which I attach to the term passion will be easily
understood ; I use it to indicate only the highest degree of activity
of any faculty. Passions, therefore, are not fundamental powers,
but quantitive modes of action, and effects ; there are, consequent-
ly, as many sorts of passions as of faculties.
Physicians, idealogists, and moralists, incessantly complain of
the influence of the passions, since they ruin health and often
occasion insanity, disorder judgment, cloud reason, and are causes
of many errors and criminal actions.
Passions being the highest degree of activity of every faculty,
we easily conceive why great resnlts, whether good or bad, follow
from them; why they advance the arts and sciences, and why they
RECTIFICATION. 53
may be excessively dangerous. This depends on the nature of the
faculties which act with the utmost degree of energy. The low-
er feelings, however, let me remark, are commonly the most ac-
tive ; and in speaking of passions, we are apt to think of them.
Still, the superior sentiments and the reflecting powers also act
with passion in some, that is, they act with the greatest possible
energy. Two feelings, selfishness and the love of glory, have
been considered by Helvetius as the greatest, or principal pas-
sions, and the cause of all our actions. There is no doubt that
these two feelings are very active in the majority of individuals,
and excite and employ the other faculties to procure their satis-
faction. But certain it is, also, that they cannot produce talents.
There are ambitious people eager for distinction, who labor hard,
and who notwithstanding all, never excel in any one particular.
As there reigns a natural harmony among the fundamental pow-
ers, those faculties which are too energetic, or which act with
passion, must obviously distmb this balance or order. A youth
in love, and a fanatic in religion, sacrifice the rest to their passion,
and do harm. Yet in complaining of the passions, we do not stig-
matize the fundamental powers themselves, but only their too great
energy. This remark applies to the religion~ and moral feelings,
as well as to the most brutal propensities. Selfishness, though it
undermines morality, is still necessary to self-preservation. The
love of approbation, though the main cause of political slavery,
has a useful destination in private life. And religion, though the
source of incalculable misery, procures the greatest consolation to
humanity.
I shall make one observation more upon passions : the factitious
passions, spoken of in books, do not exist. The primitive pow-
ers, on which they depend, are innate; their applications alone
may be called factitious. Love of approbation is inherent m
human nature ; its satisfaction by external marks, titles, &c. is
artificial.
I conclude with repeating that the various conceptions of phi-
losophers, of idealogists as well as of moralists exist in nature,
54 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
but they are defective and need rectification, that is, the fundamen-
tal powers of the mind and their modes of acting must be specified,
and their existence demonstrated by observation. This great task
was reserved to Phrenology, by which alone philosophy will be-
come applicable to man in his social relations.
SECTION II.
THE following new classification of the fundamental phenomena
of the mind is the result of all physiological inquiries, contained in
my work entitled Phrenology, and constitutes a summary of its
philosophy.
ORDER I.
.B..ffective faculties or feelings.
The essential nature of the affective faculties is to feel emo-
tions. I shall indicate their nature, the aim of their existence, the
disorders to which they dispose, and the consequences of their
inactivity.
GENUS I.-Feelings common to man and animals.
Hunger and thirst are desires felt and known by means of the
brain, and there is a special organ in which these impressions in-
here.
(.!llirnentiveness.)
.B.im : The preservation of the individual.
Disorders : Gluttony-Drunkenness.
Its inactivity is accompanied by want of appetite.
FUNDAMENTAL PHENOMENA OF THE MIND. 55
DESTRUCTIVENESS•
.flirn : Destruction, and the violent death of animals, for the
sake of living on their flesh.
Disorders: Murder, cruelty.
Its inactivity prevents destruction.
PHYSICAL LOVE-(.flmativeness.)
.flirn : The propagation of the species.
Disorders: Fornication, adultery, incest, and other illegitimate
modes of satisfaction.
Its inactivity predisposes to passive continency.
LovE OF OFFSPRING-(Philoprogenitiveness.)
.l:lirn : The preservation of the offspring.
Disorders : Too active ; it spoils children, or causes their loss
to be felt as an insupportable calamity.
Its inactivity disposes to neglect, or to abandon the progeny.
lNHABITIVE:';ESS•
.flim : Animals have peculiar instincts to d~vell in determinate
localities. Nature destined all places to be inhabited.
Disorder : Nostalgia.
ATTACIIMENT-(.fldhesiveness.)
.flirn : Attachment to all around us. It appears variously mod-
ified, and produces friendship, marriage, society, habit, and gener-
al attachment.
Disorders: Inconsolable grief for the loss of a friend.
Its inactivity predisposes to carelessness about others.
CouRAGE-( Combativeness.)
.flim : Intrepidity and defence.
Disorders: Quarrelsomeness, disputation, attack, anger.
Its inactivity predisposes to cowardice, timidity, and fear.
56 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
SECRETIVENESS.
Jlim : To conceal.
Disorders : Cunning, duplicity, falsehood, hypocrisy, dissimula-
tion, intriguing, lying.
Its inactivity predisposes to be deceived by others.
AcQUISITIVENEss.
•qim: To acquire that which is necessary to our preservation.
Disorders: Theft, fraud, usury, corruptibility.
Its inactivity makes one's own interest be neglected.
CorisTRUCTIVENEss.
Jlim : Construction in general.
CAUTIOUSNESS.
Jlim : To be cautious and circumspect.
Disorders: Uncertainty, irresolution, anxiety, fear, melancholy.
lts inactivity predisposes to levity.
SELF·ESTEEM.
Jlim : Self-esteem.
Disotclers : Pride, haughtiness, disdain, arrogance, insolence.
Its inactivity predisposes to humility.
LOVE OF APPROBATION.
Jlim : Love of approbation and distinction.
Disorders : Vain glory, vanity, ambition, titles, distinctions.
Its inactivity predisposes to indifference about the opinion ol
others.
GENus li.-.1/.ffective faculties proper to man."
BENEVOLENCE.
•il·im : Benevolence in general.
*The rudiments of some of them exist also in animals; but they are much
stronger and more extensive in their sphere of application in man,
FUNDAMENTAL PHENOMENA OF THE MIND. 57
Disorders: Benevolence to the undeserving, or at the expense
of others.
Its inactivity predisposes to selfishness, and not to regard others.
REVERENCE.
Jlim : To respect what is venerable.
Disorders: Idolatry, bigotry.
Its inactivity predisposes to irreverence.
FIRMNESS.
Jlim: Firmness.
Disorders: Stubbornness, obstinacy, and disobedience.
lts in,(tctivity: predisposes to inconstancy and changeableness.
CoNsCIENTIOUSNESs•
.!lim: Justice, conscientiousness, and duty.
Disorders: Remorse for actions which are innocent, or of no
importance.
Its inactiv-ity predisposes to forgetfulness of duty.
HoPE.
Jlim : Hope.
Disorders: Love of scheming.
Its inactivity predisposes to despair.
MARVELLOUSNESS.
Jlim: Admiration, and belief in supernaturality.
Disorders: Sorcery, astrology, the belief in demons.
Its inactivity predisposes to incredulity in revealed ideas.
IDEALITY.
Jlim : Perfection.
DisOTders: Too great exaltation, eccentricity.
Its inactivity predisposes to taking things as they are.
s
58 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
MIRTHFULNESS.
Jlim : Glee, mirth, laughter.
Disorders: Raillery, mockery, irony, satire.
Its inactivity predisposes to seriousness.
IMITATION.
Jlim: Imitation, expression in the arts.
Disorders: Buffoonery, grimaces.
Its inactivity hinders expression in the arts, and imitation in
general.
ORDER II.
Intellectual faculties.
The essential nature of the intellectual faculties is to procure
knowledge.
GENUS I. External senses.
GENUS II. Internal senses, or perceptive faculties, which pro-
cure knowledge of external objects, their physical qualities, and
various relations.
Individuality.
Configuration.
Size.
Weight and resistance.
Coloring.
Locality.
Order.
Calculation.
Eventuality.
Time.
Tune.
Language.
GENUS III. Rtjlective faculties.
Comparison.
Causality.
ORIGIN OF THE MENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 59
SECTION III.
Origin of the .Mental Dispositions.
NOT the nature of the mental powers only, but their origin, or
the cause of their existence also, has constantly been an object of
investigation. Philosophers have never differed in opinion upon
the vegetative qualities of man. His digestion, circulation, respi-
ration, and various secretions and excretions, are natural functions,
and cannot be acquired by will nor intelligence ; but, in regard to
the origin of the mental powers, many, and diflerent opinions, have
been, and are still, entertained. According to some, man is every
thing by nature ; to others, tl1ere are a few general fundamental
faculties which produce all particular manifestations ; whilst others,
again, hold that man is born without any determinate disposition, a
tabula rasa, or blank sheet, and that his faculties are the result of
external impressions both natural and artificial. Let us examine
these different opinions, and see how far each is exaggerated.
CHAPTER I.
Man is every thing by Nature, or, all is innate in .Man..
According to the philosophers of antiquity, we look in vain for
<jualities in man which are not given to him from birth. This
language was used both by profane and religious writers. Plato,
in his Republic, considers philosophical and mathematical talents,
memory, and the sentiments of pride, ambition, courage, sensuality,
&c., as innate. Hippocrates, in treating of the qualities necessary
for a physician, speaks of natural and innate dispositions. Aris-
totle, in his work on Political Science, adopts the principle, that
some are born to govern and others to obey. Quintilian said, ' If
precepts could produce eloquence, who would not be eloquent ?'
Cicero, Seneca, &c. were of opinion that religion is innate ; so
60 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
thought Lavater also. Herder* considered man's sociability, his
benevolence, his inclination to venerate a superior being, his love
of religion, &c. as innate. Condillac t says, ' Man does not know
what he can do, till experience has shown what he is capable of
doing by the force of nature alone ; therefore, he never does any
thing purposely till he has once done it instinctively. I think this
observation will be found to be permanent and general. I think
also that, if it had been duly considered, philosophers would have
reasoned better than they have done. Man makes analyses only
after having observed that he has analyzed. He makes a language
after having observed that he had been understood. In this man-
ner poets and orators began before they thought of theit· peculiar
talents. In one word, all that man does he did at first from nature
alone. Nature commences, and always commences well. This is
a truth that cannot be repeated too frequently.'
' When the laws,' says he in another passage,t ' are conven-
tions, they are arbitrary. This may be the case ; and, indeed,
there are too many arbitrary laws ; but those which determine
the morality of our actions cannot be arbitrary. They are our
work in as far as they are conventional ; but we alone did not
make them ; nature dictated them to us, and it was not in our
power to make them otherwise than they are. The wants and
faculties of man being given, laws are given al~o ; and, though we
make them, God, who created us with such wants and such facul-
ties, is, in fuct, our sole legislator. In following tl1ese laws con-
formably to nature we obey God ; and this is tbe completion of
the morality of our actions.'
The ancient institution of castes, or tribes, in eastern countries,
shows that endeavors were made to preserve the purity of the
races. The prejudice of nobility in certain families can be
explained only by admitting the innateness of dispositions.
The religion of Christ also recognises the innateness of the
* ldeen zur Geschichte der Philosophie der Menschheit. Th. 1. S. 252.
I I:Euv. Compl. 8vo. t. iii. p. 115.
I Loc. cit. p. 55.
ORIGIN OF THE MENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 61
faculties. According to it, all is !;iven from above. 'A man can
receive nothing, except it be given to him from Heaven.'* 'No
one can come unto me except it were given to him by my Father.'t
' Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.' t ' All men cannot re-
ceive this saying, save they to whom it is given.'§ St. Paul
says, ·when the Gentiles which have not the law, do by nature the
thing;s eontained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law
unto themselves : which show the word of the law written in their
hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the
meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another.' II
The doctrine of predestination is also conformable to the opin-
ion that every thing is innate. Pious persons implore the influence
of God and of various spirits. The doctrine of divine grace also
agrees with the principle that man has natural gifts.
Thus the principle of innateness is obvious,·and bas been admit-
ted from the remotest antiquity ; but what it is that is innate, and
how it is so, are points not sufficiently known. Before I examine
them, however, I shall rectify the two other notions, already men-
tioned, in regard to the origin of the faculties of the mind.
CHAPTER II.
.Rfew general Faculties produce all particular Dispositions.
Philo~ophers, at all times, have had a great fondness for general
conceptions. They have shown t)le same liking in their explana-
tion of the causes of our actions. A certain activity of the mind is
commonly admitted as necessary to profit being made of extern;u
impressions ; but some general modes of action have seemed suf-
ficient to account for all the particulars.
• John, iii. Z7.
§ Matt. xix. ll.
t John, vi. 65.
II Rom. ii. 14.15.
!Matt. xiii.9.
62 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
1. Wants and pleasm·e produce our Faculties.
The expression 1Vant is here taken as synonymous with desire.
This general term, however, designates no determinate faculty, but
the effect of each power being active; there are as many wants, or
desires, as fundamental faculties, and these wants a1·e proportionate
to the activity of the faculties. Those, therefore, who speak of
wants, in this sense, must specify them, and point out their indi-
vidual causes. For it cannot be the same cause which finds plea-
sure in construction and in demolition; in benevolence and in
cruelty; in righteousness and in sensual enjoyments ; in the study
of history and of mathematics ; in poetry and in ascetic contempla-
tions, &c. Thus the general proposition of philosophers, that
desire of pleasure and aversion to pain produce our actions, must
be rectified. The pleasures are different, and effects of individual
active faculties ; these then must be made known, and the objects
of their satisfaction indicated.
2. J1ttention is the cause of our Faculties.
Attention is very commonly considered as the cause of all inter-
nal faculties. Helvetius even said, that each well-organized person
might exercise his faculties by means of his attention, with such
success as to arrive at the first rank in society.
The word attention as I have shown, has two acceptations : it
denotes consciousness in general ; and consequently, in this sense,
accompanies the activity of every faculty ; and it explains why one
animal or man pays great attention to one object, and very little or
none to another ; why individuals are attentive to different objects,
even according to sex and age ; and why attention is proportionate
to the activity of the respective faculty, so that, if the senses be
not exercised, much stronger impressions are required to arouse
their attention. The attention, therefore, of every faculty may
be cultivated and improved by its exercise ; but attention, as a
general quality, cannot be the appanage of any particular power.
ORIGIN OF THE lllENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 63
1\Ioreover, as attention also denotes a distinct consciousness, a
reflection on sensations and actions, the aptitudes and instincts of
animals cannot certainly be its effect in this significatipn. No one
will maintain, that the rabbit, badger, mole, marmot, or hamster,
make burrows, because they have examined with attention the ad-
vantages of such dwellings ; or that the beaver builds a cottage,
because it has studied the laws of mechanics. Among men,
geniuses also burst forth quite unconscious of their talents. This
kind of attention then may excite, but can never produce, the par-
ticular faculties.
3. Understanding is the cause of our Faculties.
This proposition is also cleared up by Phrenology. The affec·
tive powers must be separated from the intellectual faculties, and
there are several sorts of understanding, and each special power,
affective or intellectual, is a fundamental gift, in the same way as
each external sense.
4. The Will is the cause of our Faculties.
This opinion is refuted by daily observation. Who can doubt
that every thinker as well as every dreamer in philosophy has
occasionally felt the limits of his faculties, and has done things dis-
approved of by reason. What had then become of the will ? I do
not agree with those who object, that man is degraded by having
his actions explained. Those who use such language seem to me
to speak without attaching any meaning to their words. Is man
degraded by having it said, that he must submit to the laws of the
creation ? Can he change the laws of his organization, of his senses,
of his understanding, or alter the principles of music, algebra, &c.?
·were man degraded by a determinate nature, all beings are so,
even God himself, seeing that, by his nature, he cannot will evil,
nor do an injustice. Now, if God act according to his nature,
man cannot be degraded by laws dictated to him by the Creator,
64 PliiLOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
or by his will not being absolute. In the same way man is not
degraded by our saying, that he cannot produce the talents and
feelings he ·desires.
CHAPTER III.
•JJfan's Faculties are the result of Education.
The doctrine of innate ideas, of innate moral principles and of
predestined actions lost its authority by degrees, and it was easy
to combat it, as it is not conformable to nature. That so many
errors on this point should have prevailed during centuries is almost
inconceivable ; for every day observation belies the principle.
How could philosophers maintain that man is every thing from
birth, with the fact before them of the difference in so many par-
ticulars between the Athenians and Lacedremonians, occasioned by
the dissimilarity ofthe laws which governed each nation ? And is it
not obvious too, that several modern nations neglect the arts and
sciences only because their religious creeds interdict such pursuits?
And further, is not every one of us aware that his notions and his
actions are modified by external circumstances, and by the educa-
tion he has received ? The doctrine of universal innateness has
been examined and refuted by Locke, Condillac, and others, and
I find it superfluous to say more on the subject here. But some
of these authors and their followers fell into the opposite extreme,
and conceived men and animals born indifferent-labulre rasa, or
blank sheets, and maintained all the instincts of animals, from the
insect to the dog and elephant, to be the consequences of instruc-
tion. Helvetius,-the great champion of this opinion--maintains
that foxes hunt because they have learnt hunting from their parents ;
birds sing and build nests in consequence of instmction ; and man
becomes man by education.
The opinion of Helvetius and his school, being still much ac-
ORIGIN OF THE MENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 65
credited, and many institutions being founded on it, deserves a par-
ticular exarr:ination, but the answet· to their positions is, that edu-
cation produces no faculty whatever, either· in man or animals.
According to their hypothesis, arts and sciences ought to improve
in propot·tion as they are taught, and mankind ought to become
perfect under the care of moral and religious preachers. \Vhy
then is the progress of the arts and sciences so slow ? \Vhy are
we forced ·to allow that men of genius are born ? ·why has every
one of us certain faculties stronger than others ? Truth lies at nei-
ther of the extremes, but between the two, and this is what I shall
endeavor to prove. I shall consider, under three separate heads,
the ideas according tn which man acquires his affective and intel-
lectual faculties by education. The first concerns the external
senses ; the second fortuitous circumstances ; and the thit·cl, in-
struction and the external circumstances which are voluntarily
prepared.
I. Of the external Senses as cause of the mental facult·ies.
The external senses, it is certain, are indispensable to the acquir-
ing of knowledge of the external world, and to the fulfilment of
social duties ; it is also certain that they are given by nature. But
it is only because they are absolutely necessary to our actions that
they have been considered as their cause.
This subject has been particularly examined in the first volume
of this work, and I shall only repeat that the internal faculties arc
not in proportion to the external senses, and that these are mere
intermedia. The hands may be used to take food, to write to a
friend, to draw, to play on a musical' instrument, &c.; but they do
not produce hunger, friendship, drawing, music, &c. Let us ob-
serve instead of supposing, and we shall find that the internal fac-
ulties arc only manifested by means of the external senses and of
voluntary motion.
9
66 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
2. Of fortuitous or accidental Circumstances as the cause of our
faculties.
The following language is very common :-Necessity makes
man act and invent ; occasions produce talents ; revolutions bring
forth great men ; danger gives courage ; society causes the pas-
sions, and these are the principal motives of our actions ; climate
and food beget powers, &c.; in short, circumstances produce the
mental f.1culties.
'Vbatever has been said of fortuitous circumstances as the cause
of faculties, may be reduced to two considerations : they present
the faculties with opportunities necessary to the exhibition of their
activity; or they excite the faculties, without, however, originating
them.
' Demosthenes,' says Helvetius, ' became eloquent because the
eloquence of Callistratus made so deep an impression on his 'mind
that he aspired only to this talent.' According to the same author,
' Vaucanson became famous in meehanics, because, being left alone
in the waiting-room of his mother's confessor, when a child, he
chanced to find a clock, and after examining its wheels, endeavor·
ing, with a bad knife, to make a similar machine of wood. He
succeeded, and therefore constructed his surprising machines, the
automatons. Milton would not have written his Paradise Lost,
had he not lost his place of secretary to Cromwell. Shakspeare
composed his plays because he was an actor ; and he became an
actor because he was forced to leave his native country on account
of some juvenile errors. Corneille fell in love, and made verses
to the object of his passion, and therefore became famous in poet-
ry. Newton saw an apple falling, and this revealed to him the
law of gravitation, &c.'
In this manner of reasoning the origin of the faculties is con-
founded either with the opportunity necessary for their manifest:~­
tion, or with some external excitement. It is evident that external
circumstances must permit the internal faculties to act; oppor-
ORIGIN OF THE MENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 67
tunities, however, do not, therefore, produce faculties. lVithout
food I cannot eat ; but I am not hungry because food exists. A
dog cannot hunt if it be shut up, but its desire of hunting is not
produced by leading it into the fields. Many millions are often
placed in the same circumstances, and, perhaps, a single individual
alone takes advantage of them. Revolutions make great men, not
because they produce faculties, but because they offer opportuni-
ties necessary to their display. Circumstances often favor the
attainment of distinction and the acquisition of celebrity, but every
individual does not reach an eminent place. Buonaparte alone
knew how to acquire supremacy over all French generals who
rose before and with him. The Revolution of Spain is far from
having produced the same results as that of France. It is not
certainly enough to be an actor in order to compose such plays as
those of Shakspeare. Theatrical performers were almost ranked
with slaves, at Rome, yet <Esop and Roscius appeared ; whilst in
Greece, where this profession was esteemed, no actor of renown
is on record. France has produced a greater numbe'r of eminent
actors than England ; yet in the former country performers were
excommunicated and in the latter honored. How many chil-
dren are exposed to siwilar influences without manifesting the
same energy of faculties, while, on the contrary, some individuals
not only make use of occasions present, but prepare and produce
others which permit their faculties a still greater sphere of
activity!
On the other hand, it is true that our faculties are often excited
by events, and that without external excitement they would remain
inactive. Yet however useful, the study of excellent models may
he in the arts, I am still convinced that the principles of every
science, art, and profession, are readily conceived by those who
possess the faculties each requires in a high degree. This is the
case with moral principles and religion also, which are easily de-
veloped if the innate conditions on which they depend be pos-
sessed.
68 PlliLOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Society.
Many authors treat of the natural state of man in opposition to
his social condition, and consider numerous qualities as the result
of society. According to their hypothesis, man is made for soli-
tude ; the social state is contrary to his nature ; and many of his
virtues and vices would never have existed, had he not abandoned
his state of isolation.
Excepting certain idiots, however, where, and at what time,
has man lived a solitary being? History, so fm· as it goes, shows
that he has always lived in society; in families, at least; and fumi-
lies, though scattered through the woods, form communities. As
we find man every where united in societies, then, is it not natnral
to conclude that he is a social being ? Animals, it is necessary to
recollect, in regard to the instinct of sociability, are divided into
two classes: se;·eral species are destined to live in society, as
sheep, monkeys, crows, &c ; others to live solitary, as the fox,
hare, magpie, &c. Man belongs to the social class. Now we
may easily conceive that the social animals are endowed with fac-
ulties destined for society, and that these cannot act without it.
And every individual is, in fact, generally calculated for society;
all his faculties are in harmony with this aim. Bustards and cranes
place sentinels; a flock of wild geese forms a triangle in flying ; a
herd of chamois is led by a female ; bees act in concert, &c. ; and
all these peculiarities inhere in animals along with the social instinct.
Consequently society is itself a natural institution ; a law establish-
ed by creation; and the faculties of social animals are not the result
of society. This proposition is also proved by the fact of social
animals having differeilt and often opposite faculties ; which if so-
ciety produce any of them could never happen.
Want, that is, some disagreeable sensation, misery, poverty, or
painful situation, is often considered as the source of the instincts,
ORIGIN OF TilE MENTAL DJSPOSITIO:'iS. 69
propensities, sentiments, and intellectual faculties of man and
animals.
\Vant, in this signification, certainly excites the internal facul-
ties, but it is not true that it produces them ; or else the same
external wants ought to create the same faculties in animals and in
man: yet we observe that not merely every kind of animal, but
even every individual, acts differently under like impressions from
without. The partridge dies of hunger and cold during sharp
winters, and the sparrow falls benumbed from the housetop, while
the nightingale and quail take wing to temperate climes before the
season of want arrives. The cuckoo requires a nest to lay its eggs
in as well as the wagtail or the redbreast, and yet builds none.
The idiot makes no effort to defend himself from the inclemencies
of the weather, while the reasonable man covers himself with
clothing. Moreover, the faculties of animals and man are active,
without any necessity from external circumstances. The beaver,
though shut up and protected against the weather, builds its hut ;
and the weaver bird, though in a cage, makes its tissue. It con-
sequently follows, that external wants excite the activity of the
internal faculties, but do not produce them ; and in this respect
their influence is important. The faculties of the poor, for in-
stance, are more active than those of the affluent ; when the facul·
ties, however, have not been given by nature, external wants
cannot excite them.
On the other hand, misery exercises innate benevolence and im-
proves the softer feelings, whilst riches are prone to excite and
encourage lower passions, and in this sense it may be said that the
Lord inflicts pain upon those he likes, that is, they grow better ;
and Jesus Christ condemned riches, yet it remains certain that
misery does not produce benevolence.
I have already shown that the expression ·want, taken as synony·
mous with inclination or desire, is the effect and not the cause of
the internal faculties ; that there are as many wants as different facul-
ti-es ; and that wants are proportionate to the activity of these.
70 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Climate and mode of Living.
Several philosophers have supposed that climate, mode of
living, and even the nurse's milk, might be the cause of man's
faculties.
In this manner of thinking, the modifications are confounded
with the origin of our faculties. The opinion, however, must be
considered. The arguments adduced in support of it only prove
that manifestation of the faculties depends on the organization ; for
climate, eating, drinking, &c. have a powerful influence upon the
body. Instead, therefore, of denying the influence ofclimate, food,
air, light, &c. I consider it as of great importance, in as far as the
activity of the faculties is concerned. The milk of nurses cer-
tainly contributes to the growth and organic constitution of children,
and consequently to the manifestation of the affective and intellect-
ual faculties, inasmuch as the body is necessary to this. All these
external influences, however, cannot, it is evident, produce any
faculty. If parents were right in attributing the inferior propensi-
ties of their children to the nourishment they had received, why
should not grown-up people, who live on beef, veal, mutton, pork,
&c., accuse the ox, calf, sheep, und pig, for their want of intelli-
gence, and their peculiar character ? The activity of our faculties
varies with the modifications of our organization, just as the milk
and butter of cows vary according to the food they live on; or as
the flesh and fat of animals are modified according to the articles
with which they are fattened. The activity of men fed on game
differs much from the activity of men living upon potatoes and
other vegetables ; and it seems possible to show the influence of
different aliments upon certain systems in the healthy state, just as
it may be shown that some, medicines act more upon one than
upon another. From the same reason we may also conceive the
utility of certain rules of fasting in subduing sensual appetites.
Particular degrees of excitement suppress the activity of certain
faculties, while they increase that of others.
Climate certainly exerts a great influence upon the organization,
ORIGIN OF TilE 1\lENTAL DISPOSITIONS 71
and it is natural to suppose that one contributes more than another
to develope certain faculties. The influence of climate is not,
however, so powerful on man as on animals; for man, by means
of his intellectual faculties, opposes its effects. The Jews are a
proof of this. They are dispersed over the whole world, and
though somewhat modified in different countries, their primitive
and characteristic organization is still every where the same. The
effects of innateness and of the laws of propagation are much more
potent than those of any thing external. In saying, therefore, that
climate and food influence the activity of the faculties, this is not
to be confounded with their primitive origin.
3. Of prepared Circumstances, and Instruction as the cause of
our Faculties.
Having once considered external circumstances as cause of the
mental faculties, men naturally thought that to teach arts and scien-
ces, and moral and religious principles, to found academies and
schools, to pay large sums to masters, and to study the works of
great men, might be sufficient to produce superior talents.
This opinion must be opposed, by observing :-
i. The Constancy of the Nature of Jlnimals and .Man.
\'Vere animals susceptible of change from every impression and
not endowed with determinate natures, how comes it that every
species always preserves the same characters ? 'Why do not fowls
coo when they are reared with pigeons ? \Vhy do not female night-
ingales sing like males ? Why do birds of one kind, hatched by
those of another, display the habits and instincts of their parents ?
\Vhy does the duck, hatched by a hen, run towards the water ?
Why does not the cuckoo sing like the bird that reared it ? Why
do squirrels, when pursued, climb trees, and rabbits hide them-
selves in burrows ? Why are dogs attached in despite of the unkind
blows they receive, &c.? It is true that animals are not confined
72 PIIILOSOPHY OF TilE :YIIND.
in their actions solely to such as are required for their preservation.
They \"ary their manners according to the circumstances in which
they live; and are susceptible of an education beyond their wants.
Horses, monkeys, dogs, &e., may be taught to play various tricks.
This power, however, of modifying their actions is still limited, and
is always conformable to their nature.
The same reasoning applies to man. If his faculties be the result
of external influences, why does he .never manifest any other nature
but his own ? Children pass most of their time with mothers and
nurses ; yet boys and girls, from the earliest infancy, show the dis-
tinctive characters which continue and mark them through life.
ii. The Occurrence of Geniuses among Jlnimals and .Jilen.
Did animals and men learn all from others, why should individ-
uals, similarly circumstanced in regard to manner of living and in-
struction, excel the rest ? Why should one nightingale sing better
than another living in the same wood ? ·why, amongst a drove of
oxen, or horses, is one individual good-tempered and meek, and
another ill-natured and savage ? M. Dupont de Nemours had a
cow which singly knew how to open the gates of an enclosure :
none of the herd ever learned to imitate its procedure, but waited
impatiently near the entrance for their leader. I have the history
of a pointer, which, when kept out of a place near the fire by the
other dogs of the family, used to go into the yard and bark ; all
immediately came and did the same ; meanwhile he ran in, and
secured the best place. , Though his companions were often de-
ceived, none of them ever imitated his stratagem. I also knew of
a little dog, which, when eating with large ones, behaved in the
same manner, in order to secure his portion, or to catch some
good bits. These are instances of genius among animals which are
by no means the result of instruction.
Children often show particular dispositions and talents before
they have received any kind of education. Almost every great
man has, in infancy, given earnests of future eminence. Achilles,
OlliGIN OF TIJE i\IENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 73
hidden i11 Pyrrha's clothes, took the sword from among the pres-
ents of Ulysses. Themistocles, when a child, said that he knew
how to aggrandize and render a state powerful. Alexander would
not dispute any prize at the Olympic games, unless his rivals were
kings. At fourteen years of age, Cato pf Utica showed the great-
est aversion to tyranny. Nero was cruel from h;s cradle. Pas-
cal, when twelve years old, published his treatise on Conic Sec-
tions. Voltaire made verses when only seven years of age. The
number of such instances is very great, and it is unnecessary to
mention more here, as they must be within the scope of every
one's knowledge.
111. Individualities among Jlnimals and .JIIen.
Individual animals of every species have universally something
particular in their mental constitution ; every bird of the same
brood does not acquire its song with equal facility ; one horse is
fitter for the race than another ; and sportsmen know very well that
there is a great difference among dogs. It is the same with the
human kind. Children of the same parents differ in talents and
disposition, though their education has been the same. How then
should the same education possibly produce the peculiarities of dif-
ferent children? Or why have not teachers yet found means to confer
understanding, judgment, and all other good qualities ? ·why artl
we not all geniuses? ·why cannot moral and satirical discourses
keep us from abusing our faculties ? And why must we lament so
many errors and crimes ?
To prove that man acquires his affective and intellectual faculties
by education, some assert that the savages who have been found in
the woods, and destitute of all human faculties, resemble beasts
only because they have not received any education.
This presumption is refuted as soon as the condition of these
unfortunate beings is known. They may be referred to two
classes ; being ordinarily defective in organization, with large
dropsical heads, or brains too small and deformed. They are al-
10
, 74 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
most always scrofulous, have hanging lips, a thick tongue, swollen
neck, bad general constitution, and an unsteady gait ; they are
more or less completely idiots, and have commonly been exposed
and left to the care of Providence, having been found burdens
by their parents. In some countries, the lower classes consider
such unhappily-constituted creatures as bewitched, and take no
care of them. Idiots too have sometimes a detenninate propen-
sity to live alone, and consequently escape to the woods. At
Haina, near Marbourg, where there is a great hospital, Dr. Gall
and I were told, that on sending people to search for some idiots
who had escaped, others were found who had fled from different
places. We saw a mad woman near Augsburg, who had been
found in a wood. At Bnmswick we saw a woman also found in a
forest, who was incapable of pronouncing a single word. The
pretended savage of Aveyron, kept in the institution of the Deaf
aHd Dumb at Paris, is an idiot in a high degree. His forehead is
very small, and much compressed in the superior part; his eyes
are small, and lie deep in the orbits, and we could not convince
ourselves that he hears ; for he paid no attention to our calls, nor
to the sound of a glass struck behind him. He stands and sits
decently, but moves his head and body incessantly from side to
side. He knows several written signs and words, and points out
the objects noted by them. His most remarkable instinct, how-
ever, is love of order; for, as soon as any thing is displaced in the
room, he goes and puts it to rights. ,
Such unfortunate beings, then, are idiots, not because they are
uneducated, but because their imbecility unfits them to receive
education. It is difficult to concei\·e a well-organized person long
wandering about like a savage in our populous countries without
being discovered. ·were sl]ch an individual, however, to escape in
infancy, and be afterwards discovered in a forest, though he could
not be acquainted with our manners, and the sciences we teach,
he would still manifest the essential and characteristic faculties of
the human kind, and would soon imitate our customs and receive
our instructions. The girl of Champaigne proves this assertion.
ORIGIN OF THE MENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 75
Thus, education produces no f.·lCulty either in man or in animals;
but let us not conclude that education is superfluous. My ideas
on education are published in a separate volume, and I only remark
here that it excites, exercises, determines the application, and
prevents the abuses of the innate faculties ; and that on this account
it is of the highest importance. Mechanics and peasants, conl\ned
to their laborious occupations, are frequetJtly ignorant; but many
of them, with a good education, mi;ht surpass thousands of those
who have enjoyed its advantages.
From the preceding considet·ations on external circumstances,
it results, that they either present opportunities which favor the
activity of the faculties, or excite and guide, but do not in any
wise produce them.
I shall now consider the share Nature has in originating the
powers of man and animals, in the following chapter.
CHAPTER IV.
On the Innateness of the Jlfen!ctl Dispositions.
Let us see now what is innate. The fundamental powers of
the mind, as well as the organization on which their manifestations
depend, are given to man by the Creator. The constancy of
human nature affords the first proof of this position. The human
kind, in as far as its history is known, has ever been the same,
not only as regards organic, but a1so as concerns phrenic life.
The skeletons ofancient mummies are the very same as those of the
men at the present day ; and all ages have exhibited virtues and
vices essentially similar. Thus, the special faculties of man have
ever been the same ; the only difference observable at different
times, is, that they have been more or less active, and variously
modified in individuals. Here one has unjustly seized a piece of
76 l'HILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
ground, there a place of distincticm ; here mistresses have been
celebrated on an oaten-reed, there on a harp ; conquerors in one
quarter have been decorated with feathers, in another with purple
and crowns, and so on; these modifications are, howen~r, all
grounded upon primitive faculties essentially the same. And man,
though endowed with proper and peculiar faculties, still receives
them from creation ; the truly human nature is as determinate as
the nature of every other being. Though man compares his sensa-
tions and ideas, inquires into the causes of phenomena, draws con-
sequences, discovers laws and general principles, measures immense
distances and times, and circumnavigates the globe ; though he
acknowledges culpability and worthiness, bears a monitor in his
interior, and raises his mind to conceive and to adore a God,-yet
none of the faculties which cause these acts result either from acci-
dental external influences or from his own will. How indeed could
the Creator abandon and give man up to chance in the noblest and
most important of all his doings ? Impossible ! Here, as in all
besides, he has prescribed laws to man, and guided his steps in a
determinate path. lie has seclll·ed the continuance of the same es-
sential faculties in the human kind,-faculties whose existence we
should never have conceived had the Creator not bestowed them
upon us.
The uniformity of the essential faculties of mankind, notwith-
standing the influence of society, climate, modes of living, laws,
religion, education, and fortuitous events, affords another great
proof that nothing can change the institutions of nature. 1Ve every
where find the same species; whether man clothe himself or go
naked, fight with slings or artillery, stain his skin, or powder his
hair, dance to the sound of a drum or the music of a concert,
adore the sun, moon, and stars, or in his religion be guided by
Christian principles, his special faculties are universally the same.
I have also spoken of genius, in order to prove that education
does not produce our faculties, and mentioned that children often
show peculiar faculties before they have received any kind of in-
struction. External circumstances are sometimes very unfavorable
ORIGIN OF THE J\1ENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 77
to the exhibition of genius ; but gifted individuals do not always
wait for opportunities, they even make them, and leave parents,
professions, and all behind, to be at liberty to follow their natural
inclinations. !\loses, David, Tamerlane, and Pope Sixtus the
Fifth, were shepherds ; Socrates, Pythagoras, Theophrastus, De-
mosthenes, Moliere, Rousseau, and a thousand others, who have
lived to adorn the world, were the sons of artifieers. Geni~ses
sometimes surmount great difficulties, and vanquish innumerable
impediments, before their character prevails and they assume their
natural place. Such individuals, prevented by cireumstances from
following their natural bent, still find their favorite amusement in
pursuing it. Hence peasants, shepherds, and artisans, have be-
come astronomers, poets, and philosophers ; and, on the other hand,
kings, and prime ministers, employed themselves in the mechan-
ical arts ; all, indeed, unites to prove the innateness of the primitive
mental faculties.
Men of genius, however, have been said to form a particular
class, and to be incomparable with persons whose faculties are of
middling excellence.
This, however, is the same as saying that hunger and circulation
do not depend on organization, because all have not immoderate
appetite and fever ; or that the mole does not see with its eyes,
because the stag sees better ; or that man has no smell, since the
dog's is superior. But, if we admit that organization causes the
highest degree of activity of the different faculties, the lowest de-
gree must also depend on it. Moreover, the greatest genius in
one particular is often very weak in others. ~William Crotch, at
six years of age, astonished all who heard him hy his musical tal-
ents ; but in every other respect l1e was a child. Cmsar could
never have become a Horace or a Virgil, nor Alexander a Ho-
mer. Newton could not have been changed into so great a poet
as he was an astronomer ; nor Milton into so great an astronomer
as he "'as a poet. Nay, Michael Angelo could not have com-
posed the pictures of Raphael, or the contrary ; nor Albano those
of Titian, and so on.
78 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
The mental faculties again must be innate, since, although essen-
tially the same in both sexes, they present modifications in each.
Some are more energetic in women, others in men. The feelings
are, in general, stronger in women, the intellectual faculties more
active in men. These modifications inhere naturally, and it is im-
possible to give to one sex the dispositions of the ·other.
We may add, that in every nation, notwithstanding the unifor-
mity of its opinions, customs, professions, arts, sciences, laws, reli-
gion, and all its positive institutions, each individual composing it
differs from every other by some peculiarity of character. Each
has greater capacity and inclination in one than in another direction,
and even in childhood manifests his own manner of thinking and
feeling. Every one excuses his frailties by saying, It is my nature ;
it is stronger than I ; I cannot help it, &c. Even brothers and
sisters often differ extremely, though their education is uniform
The cause of difference, must, therefore, be internal.
The innateness of the faculties must also be admitted, because
there is a direct relation between their manifestations and a certain
organic apparatus.
Finally, if we believe that man is a being of creation, it is only
rational to suppose that his faculties are determinate and ordained.
I consequently, with all these considerations in view, contend for the
innateness of every faculty of the mind. But here it is of impor-
tance to notice an observation of Locke upon innateness. He, to
show that ideas are not innate, stated that children do not manifest
certain qualities, and that different nations have different, nay, op-
posite principles of morality. This position, however, in relation
to the innateness of ideas and moral principles, must not be con-
founded with the innateness of the faculties. No sensation, no idea,
no principle, is innate. Sensations and ideas of external objects
follow from external impressions, and these being accidental, ideas
of them·cannot be innate ; but the faculties which perceive impres-
sions, and conceive ideas, are innate. Thus the idea of a stone,
plant, or animal, is not innate ; but these objects make impressions
on the senses, which produce sensations or ideas in the mind, and
ORIGIN OF THE MENTAL DISPOSITIONS. 79
both the senses and the mental faculties are innate. In the same
manner, sensations and ideas of external and accidental events, and,
in general, determinate actions of the faculties, are not innate.
The propensity to love, and not the object of love ; the faculty of
speaking, not the peculiar language; the faculty of comparing and
judging, not the determinate judgment ; the faculty of poetty, not
the particular poem, &c., is innate. There is, therefore, a great
difference between innate faculties and innate ideas and sensations.
It is also true that children do not manifest all the faculties, but
we cannot from this conclude that these are not innate. Birds do
not make nests, the hamster and marmot do not collect provisions,
the swallow does not migrate immediately after birth ; neither do
animals propagate, nor females give suck, when they come into tl1e
world ; yet all these qualities are innate. This difficulty is easily
explained. E1•ery faculty has its own organ, in proportion to whose
developement are its manifestations. Now in childhood several
organs are very little, and in adult age very greatly developed ;
and while some are proportionately larger in children than in the
grown-up, others are fully developed in both. The manifestations
of the faculties being, as I have stated, always proportionate to the
developement and activity of their organs, it becomes evident why
some of them do not appear in infancy.
vVhy moral principles differ in different nations is also obvious.
I agree with Locke that they are not innate, but maintain that the
faculties which form them are. I shall afterwards show that mom!
principles depend on several faculties, and vary in nations in con-
sequence of different combinations of their organs ; the justice of a
libertine without benevolence and veneration must differ entirely
from that of a charitable, modest,, and continent person. The
same fundamental faculties exist every where, but their manifestations
are universally modified. l\Ien every where adore a Supreme
Being ; they every where have marks of honor and of infamy ; there
are every where masters and servants; ~11 nations make war, wheth-
er with clubs and arrows, or with muskets and artillery ; and every
80 PIIILOSOPHY OF '!'JIB MIND.
where the dead are lamented, and their remembrance cherished,
whether it be by embalming their bodies, by putting their ashes into
an urn, or by depositing their remains in the tomb. Hence, though
the functions of the faculties in general are modified in different
nations, ami of those consequently which determine the moral prin-
ciples also, the same fundamental powers still appear in the cus-
toms, manners, and laws of all.
An essential part of the study of man, therefore, is to show
that his nature is determinate, that all his faculties are innate, and
that nature's first prerogative is to maintain the number and the es-
sence of his special powers, whilst she permits many modifications
of the functions of all, in the same way precisely as she preserves
species, but continually sacrifices individuals.
The second right of nature is to allow more or less activity to
individual faculties in different persons; that is, she endows all with
the same faculties, but gives them in very different degrees. Some
few are geniuses, but the majority are middling in all respects.
Nature then produces genius, and the individual dispositions of
every one.
Finally, nature has stamped a difference upon the sexes : some
faculties are more active in women, others in men. Men will nev-
er feel like women, and women willl never think like men.
These are facts which observation proves. Philosophers, there-
fore, can only examine how nature produces such phenomena, and
see whether it is possible to imitate and to assist her.
Thus, the principle of Phrenology-that the faculties of ,the
mind arc innate-is indubitable.
DEPENDENCJ> OF THE MENTAL PHENOMENA. 81
SECTION IV.
The Brain is .indispensable to mental phenomena.
AFTER having seen what nature does in man, Jet us i:.quire into
the means by which she efiects it. Religious people commonly
believe in a mere supernatural dispensation of gifts; but there
cannot be a doubt of natural causes also contributing to produce
the phenomena·of mind.
I may follow the example of other natural philosophers, and con-
fine myself to proving a relation between the body and the mani-
festations of the mind, or, I may endeavor to determine the special
powers of the mind and the respective organs. This lattct· task
has been accomplished by Phrenology. Here I shall only show,
in a summary way, how reasoning coincides with observation. It
is important duly to appreciate my expressions upon this subject :
I do not say that the organization produces the affective and intel-
lectual faculties of man's mind, as a tree brings forth fruit, or an
animal procreates its kind; I only say that organic conditions are
necessary to the manifestations of mind.
I never venture beyond expet·ience ; and therefore·consider the
faculties of the mind only in as far as they become apparent by the
organization. Neither denying nor affirming any tlung which can-
not be verified by experiment, l make no researches on the lifeless
body nor on the soul alone, but on man as a living agent. I never
question what the affective and intellectual faculties may be in
themselves, do not attempt to explain bow the body and soul are
united and exercise a mutual influence, nor examine what the soul
can effect without the body. The soul may be united to the body
at the moment of conception or after\\'ards ; it may be dillerent in
every individual, or be of the same kind in all ; it may be an eman-
ation from God, or something else. \VItatevcr metaphysicians and
theologians may decide in regard to these various points, the posi·
tion, that manifestation of the faculties of the mind depend, in this
ll
82 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
life, on organization, cannot be shaken. Let us then consider the
proofs which reasoning affords of this principle of Phrenology.
i. Difference of the Sexes.
The faculties of the mind are modified in the sexes: some are
more energetic in men, others in women. Do then the souls of
men and women differ, or is it more probable, that the faculties
are modified because their organs or instruments vary ? Phrenolo-
gy shows that certam parts of the brain are more developed in
men, others more in women; and .thus renders the pecuharities in
the mental manifestations of each, easily explicable. There are,
however, many instances in which the intellectual faculties of
women resemble those of men, and the contrary.
ii. Individuality of every Person.
The mental faculties are modified in every individual. Now,
is it probable that the soul differs universally, or is it more likely,
that as the whole human kind has descended from an original pair,
all modifications of the faculties may be explained by diffe•·ences
in the organs on which each respectively depends ? Like species
of animals, and man also, have essentially the same corporeal
structure ; there is merely difference of pl'Oportion and develope-
men! in the various parts of which the body is composed ; and
these differences in the organs produce corresponding varieties in
the functions attached to them.
iii. Jlges.
Mental manifestations are modified by age. Either tbe soul, or
its instruments, therefore, must produce tbese modified manifesta-
tions. It is ascertained tbat certain faculties appear early in life,
or at a later period, according as the peculiar organs of eacb are
developed.
DEPENDENCE OF THE MENTAL l'HEND:'i!ENA. 83
The same law holds in both affective and intellectual faculties :
the manifestations of all are not simultaneous. Several of both
orders appear in infancy, others not before maturer years ; several,
too, disappear earlier, whilst others endure till the end of life.
Now as we know that manifestations of the mental powers always
accord with certain organic conditions, it is impossible to overlook
their dependence on organization.
iv. Influence of Physical Conditions.
All that disorders, weakens, or excites the organization of the
nervous system, influences especially the manifestation of the men-
tal faculties also. It is generally obsen·ed that organs are enfeebled
if their growth be very rapid; their functions too, are, in conse-
quence, less energetic. This is chiefly remarkable in the climac-
teric years, or periods of increase ; a knowledge of \''hich is so
very important in practical medicine. Vegetablcs are known to
increase partieularly at two periods ; in the spring, and in the mid-
dle of summer. The growth of the human body is also more
rapid at certain times than at others. Now rapid growth weakens
the organs, both of vegetative and animal life, and consequently the
functions they perform respectively. Girls who grow too suddenly
turn pale, chlorotic, and consumptive, &c. Individuals, therefore,
during the periods of growth, are not fit for active business, and
ought not to exercise thei1· intellectual faculties much. Rest is
necessary till the organs acquire maturity, wben all tbe faculties of
the mind and body will resume their energy. Org;ans of particular
faculties are occasionally too soon developed, and are then apt to
be exercised overmuch. Incurable' exhaustion often results from
this, and early g;cnius is nipped in tbe bud.
Adult men and animals are still subjected to variable degrees
of excitement from seasons, temperature, food, and especially from
particular laws to which the organization is subjected. We see
animals resume and abandon at different periods, their instinct to
sing, to build, to gather provisions, to live solitarily or in society,
84 PHILOSOPHY OF THE l\IIND.
to migrate, &c.; and the faculties of man do not always act with
the same degree of energy. \VI10 can overlook the influence of
such evacuations as the catameni, hemorrhoids, &c. ; or of preg-
nancy, digestion, fasting, and \\·hatever exhausts the corporeal
powers ? \VIJO can deny tl1e elfects of disease upon the manifesta-
tion of our faculties ; or of external and internal excitements, as
of agrccn)Jie impressions, fine weather, music, dancing, &c. ?
Now all these act upon the organization only ; manifestation of the
mental faculties consequently depends on the organization.
Exceedingly defective mental powers have been known to grow
very active when excited hy external or internal causes. Hailer
relates the case of an idiot, who happening to be wounded on the
head, manifested great understanding so long as the wound remain-
ed open, but who, as soon as this healed up, fell into !tis former
stupidity. He speaks of another patient whose eye being inflamed,
saw perfectly during the nigl1t whilst the inflammation lasted.
Father Mabillan, in his infancy, gave little promise of superior
abilities ; but, having received a blow on his head, he, from that
moment, displayed talents. I have heard of a boy who, at the age
of fourteen, seemed incapable of improvement; having fallen down
stairs one day, however, and got several wounds in his head, he
afterwards began to excel in his studies. I have seen a gil"l, nine
years old, whose right arm grew gradually weak and almost paralyt-
ic, in consequence of a blow on the same side of the head ; her
lower jaw trembled incessantly, and she was often eonvulsed ; but
her inteller,tual faculties had acquired great energy and perfection ;
her whole deportment indeed, was exceedingly imposing. I shall
mention only one other case of this kind from the Edinburgh Re-
view,* in an article upon the Retreat, an institution near York for
insane persons of the Society of Friends : 'A young woman, who
was employed as a domestic servant by the father of the relater
when he was a boy, became insane, and, at length, sunk into a
state of perfect idiocy. In this condition she remained for many
years, when she was attaeked by a typhus fever; aud my friend,
' No. XLV. p. 197.
DEPENDENCE m' THE ~IBNTAL PHENOMENA. 85
having then practised some ume, attended her. He was surprised
to observe, as tbe fever ad\·anced, a developement of the mental
powers. During that period of the fever when others are delirious,
this patient was entirely rational. She recognised, in the face of
her medical attendant, the son of her old master, whom she had
known so many years before, and she related many circumstances
respecting his family and others, which had happened to herself in
hP.r earlier days. But, alas ! it was only the gleam of reason : as
the fever abated, clouds again enveloped the mind ; she sunk into
her former deplorable state, and remained in it until her death,
which happened a few years afterwards.' These facts are positive,
and there can be no doubt of similar causes influencing the faculties
of the mind surprisingly ; yet they can only act immediately upon
the organization. We must perforce conclude, that when physical
and organic causes excite the most impudent lasciviousness, the
most arrogant pride, despair which rejects all consolation, and so
on, these various manifestations depend on the organization.
Sleeping and Dreaming.
The states of watching, sleeping, and dreamil)g, also prove the
manifestations of the mind dependent on organization ; for corpo-
real organs can alone be fatigued and exhausted. Now it is known
that mental operations cannot be continued incessantly, that rest is
indispensable, and that a regular recurrence of that inactive state
of the mental faculties called sleep, is necessary to enable them to
display their perfect energies.
Ifsingle organs be by any cause excited, and enter into action
while the others are inactive, partial sensations and ideas, or dreams,
arise. Dreams, then, are almost always the result of ce1·tain ma-
terial causes, and are conformable to the age and organic constitu-
tion of the dreamer. l\Ien and women of an irritable habit of body,
find difficulties and endless impediments in their dreams, and
generally suffer pain, and feel anxiety and alarm. This constant
relation between dreams and bodily frame, which has been ,·erified
86 l'HILOSOPHY OF 1'HE MIND.
by an infinity of observations, proves further that the mental mani·
festations depend on organization.
vi. Exercise.
The possibility of exe1·cising and of training the faculties of the
mind, also shows their dependence on the organization ; for that an
immaterial being can be exerc.ised is inconceivable.
vii. Relation between the Brain and the manifestations ofthe
.Mind.
The preceding arguments are founded on reasoning, and prove
that all manifestations of the mind depend on organic conditions.
In the first volume of this work it is demonstrated, that individual
faculties manifest themselves by means of particular cerebral parts,
and that the faculties appear, increase in strength, and diminish in
vigor, in proportion as the organs on which they depend are devel-
oped, increase in size, and shrink again. The brain of the new
born child scarcely shows any traces of fihres ; these appear, be-
eome firmer by degrees, and attain perfection between the twentieth
and fortieth year. As years accumulate, its convolutions, which
had been plump, become flabby, and are less closely packed
together.
In conformity with the state of the brain at birth, animal life is
confined to spontaneous motions, to the perception of hunger and
thirst, to some obscure sensation of pain and pleasure, and to an
imperfect state of the external senses. By degrees the number
and energy of the affective and intellectual faculties augment, and
the child begins to acquire knowledge and determinate ideas of
external objects. Through the periods of boyhood and adolescence
the faculties gradually gain strength ; and, in manhood, they at
length manifest the greatest degree of energy. From this state of
perfection, however, they soon begin to decline; and, in extreme
old age, the propensities are blunted, the sentiments weakened, and
the intellectual faculties almost or entirely annihilated.
DEPENDENCE OF THE MENTAL PHEl'\Ol'IIENA. 87
If the organs of the faculties, however, do not follow the usual
order of increase, but be either precocious or tardy, their respec-
tive functions are also manifested with corresponding variations. If
the intellectual faculties are often more energetic in rickety chil-
dren than beseems their age, their brain will also be found extra-
ordinarily developed or irritable. Independently of all disease,
however, particular portions of the brain are occasionally develop-
ed at too early a period, and then their functions likewise appear
prematurely.
On the other hand, when parts of the brain or its whole mass
arrives very late at maturity, the mental imperfections of childhood
remain longer than usual, sometimes till about the tenth or twelfth
year, so that parents despair of the rationality of their children.
After this age, however, the cerebral organs will often take on a
particular growth, and the faculties then appear with great vigor.
One of the most distinguished physicians at Berlin, when ten years
old, could not use his organs of speech, and Gessner, at the same
age, had made such slender progress in his studies, that his pre-
ceptor declared him half an idiot; yet it is known how famous he
became afterwards.
If the growth of the cerebral org,ans be incomplete, the faculties
of the mind are equally defective. It is impossible to determine
with exactness the degree of organic dcvelopement necessary to
the due manifestation of the mental powers ; for this depends not
on the size of the organs alone, but on their peculiar constitution
also. A very small brain, however, is always accompanied with
imbecility.
Children have sometimes the same organic constitution of brain
as their parents, and then manifest' precisely similar affective and
intellectual faculties. Characteristic forms of head are often trans-
mitted from generation to generation ; and thus are mental faculties
propagated in families during centuries. It is an acknowledged
fact, that children who resemble each other, or their parents, man-
ifest similar faculties, making allowances for difference of age and
sex. I have seen twin-boys so like each other that it was almost
88 PlJILOSOPJIY OF THE MIND.
impossible to distinguish them ; their inclinations and talents were
also strikingly similar. Two other twin sisters are ''ery different;
the muscular system in the one being most developed, the nen•ous
in the other; and while the first has little understanding, the
second is eminently talented.
To conclude this point, I say that, as the peculiar organs of the
affective and intellectual faculties can positively be demonstrated,
it is impossible to deny the dependence of mental phenomena on
the organization.
The principle of Phrenology, therefore, that the manifestations
of the affective and intellectual faculties of the mind depend on the
brain, is also ascertained.
SECTION V.
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN,
General view.
THE examination of this subject has been opposed at all times
and in all countries by all sorts of obstacles. This higher portion
of human nature has constantly been injured, and trampled upon
by civil and religious establishments. In this respect, in particu-
lar, man has been treated as a beast that stands in need of a mas-
ter. It may be added that Cicero's sentence-' man desi•·cs to be
deceived'-finds its special application as far as his religious dispo-
sitions are concerned. Those who dare to think for themselves
and to instruct others, must still be prepared to struggle for truth.
The ancient philosophers commonly took care not to offend the
ignorant multitude on the religion of the state, but initiated their
chosen disciples with their secret thoughts upon these matters.
The religious doctrines in general are involved in numberless
contradictions and inconsistencies. The great remedy consists in
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 89
the love of truth and free inquiry. Refined ideas are commonly
buried under heaps of rubbish and superstition, so that it is ex·
tremely difficult to separate the true from false doctrines. We
find sublime precepts at the bottom of all the great religious sys-
tems among tl1e Indians, Chinese, Roman Catholics and others,
though the chief place is occupied by childish, ridiculous, useless
and sometimes mischievous observances. No Christian who has
arrived at refined notions of an All-perfect Being will object to the
Shastra treating of God in the following expressions ; ' He who
considers the Being that is infinite, incomprehensible and pure, as
finite, perceptible by the senses, limited by time and place, sub-
ject to passion and anger, what crime is such a robber of Divine
Majesty not guilty of. Acts and rites that originate in the move-
ments of the hands and other members of the body, being perish·
able, cannot effect beatitude that is eternal. Those who worship
forms under appellations continue subject to form and appellation,
for no perishable means can effect the acquisition of an imperisha-
ble end.' Yet the religion of the common Indians is disfigured by,
and almost reduced to, external ceremonies. Similar remarks are
applicable to the other great establishmems of religion. The sub-
lime principles are too often neglected or even forgotten by the
fault of those who teach and of those who are taught. The for-
mer commonly lay more stress upon the necessity of belief in the
messengers who revealed the doctrine, and upon ceremonious ob-
servances, than upon virtuous actions ; and the latter find it more
easy to follow outward ceremonies than to excel by inward virtue,
self-denial and wisdom.
On the other hand, men of disinterested, kind and pious feelings,
of amiable and charming habits, great goodness, love of truth and
sound judgment, are met with in all countries and under every
church-establishment, among the Jews and Gentiles, l\lahometans,
Roman Catholics and Protestants. These individuals, as St. Paul
said, have the law written in their heart, and we are wrong in as-
cribing their moral perfection to the religious creed in which they
are born and brought up. Fenelon, for instance, would have been
12
90 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
mild, amiable, innocent, benevolent and useful to his fellow crea-
tures under any church-government, because his pure mind inhab-
ited a pure body. He therefore preserved his innate goodness
and candor in the midst of the selfishness, hypocrisy and intrigue
of the French court.
However delicate the object of religion may be, I do not hes-
itate to examine it, placing truth above any other consideration,
relying on the decrees of the all-wise Creator, and being intimately
convinced that truth is the corner-stone of human happineso, and
that true Christianity will gain by free investigation. The princi-
pal points to be considered are, atheism; God's existence; God's
attributes; God's relationship with man; the importance of a tem-
poral revelation ; the aim of religion ; its improvement ; and the
sublimity of Christianity.
On .11theism.
Atheism is the doctrine which denies the existence of God, the
creator of the universe. It bas been an object of discussion among
thinkers of ancient and modern days. Many ancient philosophers
denied the existence of a Creator and Supreme Being that governs
:he world; they believed in an essence or ether, commonly styled
the soul of the world, which as they said penetrated all beings and
produced all phenomena. The soul of man was a portion of it,
and at the death of every one united with other bodies. Others
went still farther by rejecting such a general cause infused into all
beings, and by admitting only a certain number of elements and
their combinations : mere mixture and form of matter. This sort
of atheism then may be confounded with materialism. According
to it there is no God, no creator, no soul, no religion, no immor-
tality, no beginning, no end, nothing but matter governed by inva-
riable laws.
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 91
.2. On God's existence.
The number of Atheists has always been, and ever must be
very small, but that of Deists seems to be considerable. It appears
certain that the heathen philosophy from the remotest times admit-
ted a supreme Deity, the fountam of all other divinities. In dis-
cussions of this kind, however, Deists are often confoundP.d with
Atheists, and the latter denomination is used in order to !leery eve-
ry new idea unfavorable to any old or accredited beli,,f, In this
erroneous sense, to be an Atheist means a me1·e unbelievcc, which
may happen with respect to any religious notion or intcq•retation
of individual passages of the revealed law, whilst the person per-
secuted under the name of Atheist, may firmly belie><e in God's
existence and his all-wise government. The names of :m Atheist,
a Deist, and an unbelie,·er or infidel, therefore,ought to be carefully
distinguished from each othe1·, their significations being extremely
different. The term Atheist should be applied only to him who
rejects the idea of a Creator and of a supreme go\•erno1· ; that of
Deist to him who confines his belief in the existence of a Supreme
Being, the creator of all, according to invariable laws; finally, an
unbeliever or infidel in any religion is he who disregards the divine
revelation given to man since his creation. An unbeliever in that
sense among Christians contradicts the divinity of Jesus, among
the Mahometans the divine mission of their prophet. Unbeliever
or heretic may also be calleu, he who denies certain interpretations
of established churches. The Protestants are heretics in the eyes
of the Roman Catholics, and the Quakers in the English church.
There is no positive religion or established creed without ac-
knowledging the existence of a Supreme and other subordinate
heavenly beings. The Jewish dispensation, and Christianity,
being proclaimed as God's will and command are inseparable of
the belief in God's existence. Even reason alone cannot consider
the admirable concatenation of all things in nature and their mutual
relations without thinking of a primitive cause ; and it is obliged by
its very nature and laws to admit such a cause-an all-wise Crea-
tor-a Supreme understanding-God.
92 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
3. On God's attributes.
According to the doctrine of mythology, individual deities we:e
intrusted with particular powers and presided over individual
natural phenomena. The believers in one single God ascribed to
him various attributes. Even in the Jewish law and in Christian-
ity the Supreme Being is represented as endowed with very dif-
ferent qualities. The God of Israel is a God of war and partial
to the Jews; that ofthe Christians, on the contrmy, a God of
peace and the father of the whole of mankind. I shall not transcribe
all particulars of this kind, contained in the Old and New Testa-
ment, but the intelligent reader may earn great benefit from com-
paring them in detail.
Reason is obliged to resign any endeavor to det~rmine the
whole of God's nature. Man, in order to be able to conceive it,
ought to be God's equal, but an inferior can never understand a
superior Being. At all times, therefore, man, confined to his na-
tural endowments, anthropomorphises God ; that is, attributes to
him such qualities as his intellect can penetrate and as seem the
most agreeable and most harmonious with his 0\m inclinations.
Savage tribes make their gods glorious warriors, always armed and
occupied with battles. Nations who believe in one Supreme
Being, ascribe to him the qualities of a tyrant whilst they continue
to live in ignorance and barbarism, and they believe in his softer
feelings in proportion as their own manners and habits are more
refined. Stupid persons are not shocked by inconsistencies in
God's commandments, whilst reasonable men think him degraded
by such suppositions. The worship varies according to God's
attributes. If men fancy God ·an ill natured Being, armed with
infinite power, who takes delight in the misery of his creatures,
they fear him, but cannot love him. The doctrine of God's attri-
butes is also of great influence on the moral conduct of man, since.
he feels inclined to imitate his maker. If God indulge in fancies,
tricks, and lower passions, why should man not be allowed to fol-
low the example of his Great Master. If God be revengeful,
ON THE RELIGIOUS CO~STITUTION OF MAN. 93
why may man not become intolerant. But if God be love, for·
bearing and forgiving, then man must forbear and forgive as he
hopes to be done by, by his Creator.
4. On God's relationship with man.
It is natural to think that the Maker is in relation to his work,
but with respect to the relationship between God and men innu·
merable opinions prevail in different religious systems. In every
one there are articles of belief, which may be subdivided into two
kiods. lst, they are relative to the divinities in Paganism, or to
the Supreme Being in Judaism, Christendom and various other
religious doctrines.-2d, they concern man in his social inter·
course. In Paganism, Judaism, Christianism, Mahometism, Buh·
daism and all other established churches, the doctrine of ceremo·
nious observances and outward performances is blended together
with moral precepts, and the whole is founded on religious belief
in such doctrines being revealed by supernatural ways and means.
Now it is a fact that among all nations, and at all times, ceremo·
nious observances made up the principal part of religious duties.
Among the Indians and Jews a peculiar cast of people is appointed
to preside over the execution of such external performances and
to teach this important point of their religion.
Even among Christian sects outward forms and ceremonious
observances are more or less numerous, and a particular profes-
sion, though their service is greatly altered by the New Testa·
ment, is kept up and intrusted with teaching religion and with at-
tending to the fulfilment of religious duties. But as among all
Christian churches some sort or other of service to God, to his
praise and glory, is prescribed, and as priesthood too often con·
found their personal views with the Supreme Being ; as some even
seem to wish to persuade the ignorant that they themselves must
live splendidly to the glory of their heavenly Father ; our duties
towards God deserve to be well defined.
94 PHILOSOPHY OF THE !lUND.
Natural religion.
Gall admits a fundamental faculty of God and religion. In my
opinion the religious phenomena are the result of several faculties.
Causality searches for a cause of every thing and of every event.
Individuality personifies the Supreme cause it arrives at; another
faculty inspires admiration and wonder, and believes in some re-
lationship between God and man ; a third feeling inspires respect
and reverence, and religion exists. lt is strengthened by the
feelings of hope, conscientiousness and cautiousness.
Natural religion implies the belief in a Supreme Being and im-
plicit obedience to his will, consisting in the laws of the creation,
whilst revealed religions make known to men God's particular de-
crees. Natural religion, therefore, distinguishes between the pre-
tended ministers of God and their versions, and the Creator and
his eternal laws.
Phrenology proves not only the innateness of religious feelings,
but also their acting without understanding like all other feelings.
Their direction depends on the use of reason. The reflective
faculties ought not to be neglected in any religious consideration
any more than in every other knowledge. Nay, natural religion
may, like natnral morality, become a science.
It is commonly believed that there can be no religion without .
revelation. This however is an error, which:will not be committed
by those who understand the innate feelings of man. This is
t·ather the language of priestcraft. It is to be regretted that re-
ligious people are averse to reason. It may be so since many
points of their doctrine do not stand the scrutiny of reason. I
think with an able writer that ' religion has been wronged by noth-
ing more than by being separated from intellect, aud by being
removed from the province of reason.' I also think with him tl;at
'Christianity was given not to contradict and degrade the rational
nature, but to call it forth, to enlarge its range and its powers ;
that it admits of endless developement, and is the last truth which
should remain stationary.' I farther say with him; ' Religious and
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 95
moral truth is appointed to carry forward mankind, but not as con-
ceived and expounded by narrow minds, not as darkened by the
ignorant, not as debased by the superstitious, not subtilized by
the visionary, not as thundered out by the intolerant fanatic, not as .
turned into a drivelling cant by the hypocrite. Like all other
truths it requires for its full reception and its powerful commu.nica-
tion a free and vigorous intellect.' God gave reason to man, and
why should its use be interdicted in the most important subject,
religion.
Natural religion is entirely guided by reason, and the feelings
proper to man. It seems hostile to priesthood to conceive the
Supreme Being as reasonable. He is particularly described as
having negative qualities, whilst his positive powers are those of
the animal nature. Sometimes he is represented as an arbitrary
tyrant, nay, very often he is demonised by fanatics. Atheism, how-
ever, would be preferable to demonism. We cannot conceive the
whole nature of God. To be able to do so, we ought to be his equal.
But to degrade him under the better part of our nature is abom-
ination. Let the idea of him be formed at least after the image
of a good, noble minded and reasonable mao. Theologians and
priestcraft have shockingly abused the relig;ous sentiments of man
and turned them to their advantage, quite forgetting the sublime
lessons of Christianity. They think it sufficient to cover them-
selves with the shield of mysteriousness and to demand unbounded
belief. But reason tells us that religious belief must work on kind-
ness, reverence, justice in practice, and that religion cannot exclude
intellect and moral conduct. It also tells us that any religious
creed that does not tend to the glory of God and the general good
of man is objectionable and may degenerate to demonism. Doc-
trines which are contradictory in themselves or contradict common
sense must be surrounded with awe and imposed ; this is expedi-,
ent to selfish or superstitious theologians, but it is not in conformity
with reason and pure Christianity. Reason cannot deny the real-
ity of revelation ; it even finds in it a great motive of moral con-
duct. But human reason does not discover that God is fond of
96 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
perfumes, tabernacles, songs, all sorts of fineries; sacrifices, &c ;
such things he must be told by God's messengers. In general no
irrational notion of God's attributes, providence and likings can be
admitted without being supported by special revelation, but the
friends of mankind must lament the mischief priests have inflicted
on their fellow creatures and on the good cause of religion, by
their nonsensical views of God and his decrees. It would have
been more profitable to mankind at large, if the teachers of relig-
ion had been penetrated with the superiority of pure Christianity,
and if they had followed the example of their great model. Rea-
son perfectly agrees with the precepts, to refer every thing to God
as the first cause ; to venerate his almighty power and providence;
to submit to his decrees and arrangement of things ; to feel grati-
tude for his benevolence ; and to adore him in truth and in spirit.
Natural religion, as well as the systems which are announced as
revealed, endeavors to make us acquainted with God's attributes
and witb our duties to him, but having reason and the powers prop-
er to man for its guide, it rejects all notions which are opposed to
them.
Phrenology brings new light. Hitherto reason alone was con-
sidered as a sufficient guide in natural religion ; but reason is in-
fluenced by the feelings as well as by intellectual notions, as by
materials on which it acts. If our knowledge be incorrect, our
judgment cannot be sound. In the same way our judgment of
religious subjects depends on the feelings with which we are an-
imated. But then it is a law of the Creator that reason places the
feelings proper to man above those which are common to him and
animals. Those who believe in natural religion as well as those
who rely on revelation, will modify their religious conceptions
according to their innate dispositions or gifts, and he who possesses
the human feelings and the reflective faculties in a high degree,
will reject any revealed law or interpretation that contradicts human
sentiments and reason.
According to reason the Suprejne Being is all perfection, and
can neither gain nor lose in felicity by the terrestrial creation. If
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 97
his happiness depended on his creatures, on their respect to him
or m1 their regulations, his nature were imperfect. ' The giving
glory to God,' says Bishop Taylor," 'and doing homage to him,
are nothing for his advantage, but only for ours ; and God created
us, not that we can inc•·ease his felicity, but that he might have a
subject receptive of felicity from him.' It seems, on the other
hand, reasonaule to admit that all sentient beings have been created
for their own happiness, and that to secure this the Creator has
traced them determinate laws. The end of natural religion, then,
is an entire submission to the Will of the Creator, be it accomplish-
ed by love or by fear ; ' For this is the love of God,' says St.
John,f 'that we keep his commandments.' 'Ve may suppose
that he prefers the motive of love to that of fear, which, howe1·er,
is' also reasonable, since he makes no exceptions, but applies his
laws invariably. The first law, says Michel Mootague,:j: which
God ga,·e to man was that of obedience. Thus, if we can do
nothing for the sake of God, nothing to promote his happiness, it
follows that all our doings concern ourseh•es, our like, and the
other beings of creation, or that in this life religion consists in mor-
ality, and that morality becomes religious as far as it is the will of
God. All religious regulations, therefore, ought to be only auxil-
iary means of rendering mankind morally good. Hence it is pre-
sumptuous and pitiful to perform ceremonies by way of rendering
service to God. )\Iany ceremonies destined to glorify God, are
ridiculous, and rather calculated to amuse children than to edify
reasonable beings. Their aim, which may be laudable and respec-
table, ought never to be disguised, nor obscured by absurdities or
immoral proceedings. It is edifying to assemble and to sing to-
gether the greatness of God's perfections, but it is ridiculous to
attribute to him qualities for which we despise each other in soci-
ety ; let us reflect on the benevolence and justice of the Supreme
Being, but let us not debase him by low passions; particularly, let
us never lose sight of the principal object of religion, viz. the
moral improvement of man. As we can understand God's nature
"Sermon xii. t First Epistle, v. 3.
13
! Essais, liv. ii. ch. 19.
98 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
only as far as we possess qualities in common with him, and as we
possess qualities in common with animals, and others which are
proper to man, it is evident that in speaking of man being created
m the likeness of God, only his higher nature can he said to con-
stitute this likeness. Our religion or union with God or liking to
him, then, only consists in exertions of such powers, which consti-
tute our higher nature. In unfolding and enlarging these powers
we truly honor God. Nothing foreign to our original constitution
can be required ft·om us, and the cultivation of our rational and
moral existence is evidently the noblest tribute we can render to
our Creator and the end of our godlike nature.
Importance of Revelation.
It is certain that religious and moral feelings are innate, but the
regulation of their manifestations is an important point. ·we learn
from history that the functions of these powers have been liable to
infinite abuses and disorders. The principal object of revelation
then is, to regulate and direct the actions of the religious and moral
feelings. Reasonable persons, therefore, will never object to
revealed laws, but they will not submit indiscriminately to every
thing commanded in the name of God. It is really of consummate
importance to bear in mind that the pretended ministers of God are
men, and therefore liable to be deceived themselves as well as to
deceive others. 'Ve should never forget that a revealed law must
be in harmony with the skill of the Creator, or adapted to human
nature, and tend to the honor of God and the welfare of mankind.
Interpretations to the contrary give a deathblow to all assumed
prerogatives of infallibility.
It is remarkable that the belief in Divine revelation is quite gen-
eral. It is known that the most ancient governments were theo-
cratical and that their civil and religious regulations were imposed
as the will of God. Farther, a peculiar kind of craft, or the same
spirit has always guided those who call themselves the ministers or
confidents of God, and there is something common to all the relig-
•
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 99
ious creeds both of ancient and modern times. Every religion has
its miracles, mysteries, and martyrs. Each boasts of the most
irrefragable testimonies, the most respectable authorities, and the
most plausible reasons ; each is proposed as true, and requires un-
bounded belief and blind obedience. The Indians who rub them-
selves with cow's-dung; the Jews who eat no pork; the Mahom-
etans who neither drink wine nor eat pork, but make, at least, one
pilgrimage to Mecca during their lives ; and the believers in the
infinite number of other religious creeds scattered over the world,
have all received special revelations. Diametrically opposite and
even immoral opinions, have been defended even to death, and
always in the persuasion that God was rather to be obeyed than
man. If any article of faith be found irrational, it is called a mys-
tery, and belief in it is not at all less obligatory. Who does not know
that it is the will of God, and necessary to salvation, to make war,
or to maintain peace, to immolate victims, or to preserve that
which God has created, to sing kneeling or standing upright, the
head covered or uncovered, to repeat certain prayers in a foreign
language, to eat certain dishes on certain days, to eat them cold or
warm, to burn perfumes, &c., &c.? However dissimilar religious
doctrines may be in regard to the attributes of God, to his influence
on us, to the nature of the soul and its future state, belief is always
supported by revelation; it is always God who has spoken either
immediately or by means of his mes3engers.
Religious belief has its advantages and disadvantages. To the
former belong the powerful influence it exercises on our actions ;
and though I am far from rejecting natural goodness, I am, howev-
er, convinced from experience, that benevolent persons who have
religious belief, are more ready to 'assist their suffering neighbor
than those who have no other motive to act but their innate charity.
This, too, is easily conceived since our actions depend on motives;
and the greater the number of the latter is, with the more confi-
dence we may expect their effect. On the other hand, however,
I do not think that religious belief alone is sufficient to dispose
every one to act with charity and righteousness. I merely reckon
100 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
it among the powerful motives of action, and like to see it employ·
ed as a means of happiness, but lament every sort of disorder in-
separable from its misapplication.
Another great advantage of religious faith is to inculcate deter-
minate notions of God's attributes :Uld perfections and of the final
state of man. Reason can conceive either beginning or end ; it is
confined to observation and induction, and the number of those
who are apt to reason, is small. It is, therefore, necessary to
impose to the great bulk of mankind, whatever they must believe,
omit, or do.
But here. lies the great stumbling block, the delicacy and diffi-
culty to distinguish truth from error, true from false pmphets, and
voluntary from involuntary deceivers. The ignorant are satisfied
with faith without reasoning. They commonly obey every com-
mandment which is proposed as divine. They attaeh themselves
more to the legislator and to the manner of communicating his will
than to the excellency of his precepts. They look for miracles
from those who announce the law. They are most ready to be-
lieve in that religion which promises most, and flatters the feelings
of man to the greatest amount. It is obvious, therefore, why pre-
tended ministers of God have always been, and are still interested
in presenting ignorance as a virtue, and in preventing thinking peo-
ple from communicating their opinions freely. As their religious
intet·pretations do not always agree with the innate laws of intellect,
1t is rather convenient to interdict the exercise of reason, and no-
fortunately, hypocrites succeed too easily.
Reason indicates quite another course. It does not allow to
any one to arrogate the right of commanding in the name of God ;
it commands to pay more attention to the nature of the revealed
laws than to the time when, the place where, and the means by
which they ·are made known. The precepts of Christian morality,
for instance, have been and will be always the same, independently
of time and place, for they are inherent in, and adapted to, the
nature of man. Truth has its own intrinsic value, and docs not
acquire its worth from those who teach it. It may be overlooked
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 101
or not be felt by the ignorant, but it cannot be in opposition to
reason. The superior qualities of mao, called Theological, for
instance, cannot be given to mankind in order to gratify the selfish
views of some individuals or to entail misery upon the community.
Reason will admit every cognition of any immutable law, whether
physical or moral, as the will of God, but it will not acknowledge
any proposition contrary to the evident decrees of the Creator, nor
will it pardon those who impose duties to others which they them·
selves neglect.
The aim of Religion.
Notions of this kind are intimately connected with those of the
relationship between God and man. Most contradictory opinions
prevail amongst religious persons. This study has been and com·
monly still is, considered as the monopoly of a peculiar profession,
and degraded to a technieal phraseology. A priesthood every·
where decided about the articles of belief, and declared the terms
unbelitt•er and immoral as synonymous. But we ought to be
aware that belief cannot be forced upon man any more than physi·
cal love, ?ttachment, benevolence or any other feeling. Religious
intolerance therefore can only encourage hypocrisy. On the other
hand, religious belief must be distinguished from our innate moral
feelings ; hence the moral and religious sentiments may act sepa·
rately from each other, or in union.
Though marvellousness is an essential part of the constitution
of man, religion should be ranked with other sciences and liberal
researches. I think with Dr. Channing that' the claims of religion
on intelligent men are not yet understood, and the low place which
it holds among the oLjects of libeml inquiry will one day be recol-
lected as the shame of our age.' "
Whoever believes in the exis·
tence of God, should consider religion as the most important
object of his reflections, and being personally concerned in this
respect, his union with God should be left free from human author·
ity, particularly from the spirit of those who have seized upon it as
102 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
their particular property. It is evident that all mental applications
ought to be rational ; is it not therefore strange that religion-the
most important of human concerns-shall not admit the use of
human reason, but that on this subject human understanding shall
be obscured by symbolic terms and trampled upon by civil and
religious governments ; and that in this enlightened age, religion
shall remain a technical study, disjoined from all liberal inqmries,
and disfigured by errors which gathered round it in time> of barba-
rism and ignorance ?
Priesthood, it is true, does no longer lay down all the moral
precepts ; their power has gradually diminished, and civil govern-
ments have established a moral code independently of religious
belief, so that nowadays we distinguish between civil laws and the
rules of religious legislators. "\Vho does not observe many of the
pretended Christians neglect the moral precepts of their religious
code, confine their religious duty to the belief in the miraculous
part of Christianity, and conduct themselves according to the laws
of their civil government. Civil legislators now decide even on
the value of religious systems, declare one preferable and dominant,
and merely tolerate the others. They feel their rights and their
duties, and endeavor to promote general order and happiness ; their
statutes, in fact, are wiser and more forbearing than the interpret-
ations of revealed legislation. It is a positive historical fact that
religious governments have done more mischief to mankind than
civil rulers. Nay, civil governments have been and still are faulty
and injurious to the commonwealth in the ratio of their interference
witb, or of their being guided by religious opinions. Perceiving
the influence of religious ideas on mankind in general, civil rulers
often unite with priests for the advantage of both parties whilst the
sacerdocy commonly contend for exclusive superiority. In the
actual state of things it is still impossible to prevent every kind of
disorder which may result from the union of, or the contest between,
civil and religious powers. Among many changes, necessary to
the progress of human happiness, a religious reform is indispensa-
ble. Mischief is unavoidable so long as religion and morality are
0:'1 THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF l\1AN. 103
under the direction of two distinct classes of governors, and so
long as civil governments interfere with theological opinions strictly
speaking. Sacerdotal supremacy must terniinate, and civil gov-
ernments should abstain from meddling with any religious belief
which corresponds with the general order and happiness of the
community. There should be no exception in the civil code. It
should be the same for every member of the nation : for those who
sing to the glory of God, and for those who do not sing ; for those
who on certain days eat flesh, and for those who eat vegetables;
for the rich and the poor, for the gay and the gloomy. It should
have only one aim, general happiness. 1>Vhatever does not con-
cern this, ought to be out of its province. Every marvellous con-
ception, which neither is in opposition to general happiness, nor
troubles the order of the community, should be remitted to the
conscience of every believer, and every kind of Churchdom should
be abandoned. Religious teachers might form a liberal profes.sion,
and their lessons should be attractive, enlivening, and above all,
practical. Farther, in every religious system, its morality or the
ideas which it involves respecting purity or impurity of tendencies,
innocence or guilt of actions, should constitute its most important
part. Religion should unite all men in peace before their Creator,
but theological subtleties and technical phraseology will never pro-
duce such a desirable effect, and many generations will pass, and
great changes must take place, before man arrives at that degree
of perfection.
On the Improvement of Religious Notions.
It does not appear superfluous' to examine whether religious
notions must remain stationary, as priesthood universally maintains,
or whether they vary and must vary with the different degrees
of civilisation, and may improve like the functions of every other
innate faculty. Common sense tells, that persons of mature age
cannot feel and think like children, and that civilized and well in-
formed people cannot be satisfied with notions that please the
104 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
ignorant, no more in religion and morality than in arts and sciences.
It seems evident that priesthood should not be permitted to check
religious and moral improvement any more than academies have
the right to impede the advancement of arts and scientific inquiries
in general. The cold, obscure and technical theology of the times
of slavery, ignorance and superstition is to give place to intelligible
doctrines which harmonize with human nature. I respect every
one's manner of thinking provided it agrees with the general wel-
fare of mankind, but history shows that the religious notions of
man, however slow their variations and improvements have been
or may be, do not remain unchanged. Progress is the supreme
law of the human mind. An irresistible proof cf my proposition
may be drawn from the revealed law itself. God manifested his
will at different times and always with improved additions. He
made a covenant with Noah, his seed, and with every living crea-
ture ; * he made another with Abraham ; t he a!;ain instructed
Moses and revealed the whole Mosaic law.:j: But Jeremiah fore-
told that this covenant should not last, but be succeeded by a new
one.§ In fact, neither the Jewish dispensation nor Paganism was
adapted to the civilisation when Jesus Christ appeared ; and St.
Paul in the most positive way, speaks II of' the mediator of a better
covenant, established upon better promises,' adding that if that first
covenant bad been faultless then would no place have been sought
for the second. The gospel, particularly the sermon on the mount,
contains rules of conduct very different from those of the Mosaic
law. The interpretations of Christianity are numerous. Those
which seemed adapted and necessary to former generations, will no
longer attract enlightened minds. Religious ideas cannot be sta-
tionary any more than civil legislation. Jesus frequently spoke in
parables, complained of his disciples not understanding their mean- .-.
iog ; 'If distinguished between the things as they were from ihe
beginning of the creation, or had been modified in time ; *" and
positively stated, that he had to say many things which they could
* Gen. ix. 12.
lllleb. viii. 6.
t Ibid. xvii. 4.
11 Mallh. xv. 16.
I Exodus. § xxxi. 31
•*Markx. 6.
..
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 105
not yet bear.* I firmly believe that in many points of Christianity
the letter which kills must be replaced by the spirit which vivifies ;
and that wherever reason is allowed to reflect on religious matters,
the uniformity of doctrine is impossible. It is a common tendency
of the sacerdocy to keep religious notions stationary and to monop-
olize certain advantages connected with theit· office. It is therefore
natural that they decry every improvement which may be proposed.
Accordingly the Roman, English, Scotch or any other dominant
church will contend for the necessity of some uniform discipline.
Dut then even in admitting the soundness of the principle the great
difficulty remains concerning its application and decision about the
nature of the discipline, that is, whether it shall be childish or
reasonable, useful to a few or profitable to mankind at large. It
has happened that priesthood in feeling it necessary to yield to the
march of intellect did it secretly and without mentioning it openly.
Sometimes they altered the language, but continued to act with the
former spirit. This their proceeding must change. Religious
opinions as they have been established in dark ages to the adl'an-
tage of a few, require.a re~onable reform in the actual state of
civilisation. To that end it is desirable that in every country the
clergy keep pace with the public in the acquil'ements of natural
sciences. In that case alone they will be ready to admit every
improvement which reason and justice demand not only in language
but also in work.
Sublimity of Christianity.
It is not my intention to examine the various systems of religion
which have governed mankind at difrerent times and in different
countries. I shall, however, say a few words on Christianity,
which deserves the most serious and continued attention of every
reflective mind on account of its influence on mankind. The law-
giver and the law surpass all other codes in excellence. In pro-
portion as men's moral sentiments have been refined, Christ's
• John xvi. 12.
14
106 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
moral character has been found praiseworthy. Since the introduc·
tion of Christianity all private and public economy and all institu·
tions have been changed, and mankind have made great progress ;
but in every advanced condition of the world, Christianity unfolds
nobler views and keeps in advance of e\·ery improved stage of
society. Whoever applies Christian morality in his daily transac
tions is conscious of its adaptation to his noblest faculties. In
short this moral code seems to me the most pure, the most noble,
and the most salutary, of all which are mentioned in history. Its
laws alone are universal and invariable. It alone appeals to reason·
ing and to the con~equences of its knowledge as the best proofs of
its excellency ; alone it is forbearing ; alone it invites examination,
and asks the inquirer to hold by that which is true ; it alone is
founded on the faculties proper to man, alone places general happi·
ness above partial love and personal interest, and alone agrees with
the natural law of morality. I do not hesitate to say that, in my
opinion, true Christianity is little understood. Many, many chan·
ges must take place before it can be reestablished in its primitive
purity. I say with Benjamin Franklin,* 'I do not desire faith
diminished, nor would I endea~·or to lessen it in any man. But I
wish it were more productive of good works than I have generally
seen it ; I mean real good works, works of kindness, charity,
mercy, and public spirit; not holyday-keeping, sermon-reading, or
hearing; performing church ceremonies or making long prayers,
tilled with flatteries and compliments, despised even by wise men
and much less being capable of pleasing the Deity. Tbe worship
of God is a duty ; the reading and hearing of sermons may be use·
ful, but if men rest in hearing and praying, as too many do, it is as
if a tree should value itself on being watered and putting forth
leaves, though it never produced any fruit. The great Master,
thought much less of these outwtrrd appearances and professions
than many of his modern disciples. He preferred the doers of the
word, not the mere hearers; the son that seemingly refused to
obey his father, and yet performed bis commands, to him that pro·
*Dr. Franklin's Memoirs and private conespondence, val. iii.
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 107
fessed his readiness but neglected the work; the heretical but char-
itable Samaritan to the uncharitable though orthodox priest, and
sanctified Levite; and those who gave food to the hungry, drink to
the thirsty, raiment to the naked, entertainment to the stranger, and
relief to the sick; though they never heard of his name, he dedares
shall in the last day be accepted, when those who cry Lord! LordI
who value themselves upon their faith, though great enough to per-
form miracles, but have neglected good works, shall be rejected.
He professed that he came not to call the righteous, but sinners to
repentance; which implies his modest opinion, that there was some
in his time who thought themselves so good that they need not
hear even him for improvement; but nowadays we have scarce a
little parson that does not think it the duty of every man within his
reach to sit under his petty ministrations, and that whoever omits
them offends Gad.'
.ll!aterialism and Spiritualism.
I lament with all philan:hropists, that man is so much inclined to
run into extremes. ldealogists have commonly too much confi-
dence in their reasoning powers; they neglect observation, consider
religion and morality as mere means of leading mankind, and as-
sume their own manner of thinking and of feeling as a type of the
human race; while moralists demand blind and unbounded confi-
dence in their assertions as emannting from a superior authority,
and discountenance or interdict reasoning. In this way, idealo-
gists and moralists wage continual warfare, mutually disparage their
subjects, and retard the knowledge of the nature of man: they are
more attached to the love of dominion than to the love of truth.
Abuses and prejudices are kept up for the sake of selfish views,
and dialectic subtleties are called reasoning. If they love truth, let
both parties examine, without prejudice. Philosophers will find
that man is naturally inclined to religious considerations; and the
interpreters of the will of God, if they do not act from selfish mo-
tives, will not reject the light of reason; they ~ill soon be con-
108 PHILOSOPIIY OF THE MIND
vinced that the feelings are blind, and must be guided by reflectiOn,
which can alone establish harmony among the fundamental powers
and their functions.
It is certain that ' there is a much more exact correspondence
between the natural and moral world than we are apt to take notice
of;'* and that tmth and the knowledge of nature are neither dan·
gerous nor in opposition to morality and true religion. It is proved
by incontestable facts, that the affective and intellectual faculties
are inherent in the nature of man, that their manifestations depend
on the cerebral organization, and that the physical world is subser-
vient to the moral; but ignorance, hypocrisy, and envy, have
taken part in the discussion. The basis of Phrenology was first
attacked, viz. its reality was (]enied. To others it seemed more
convenient to blame its consequences, and without knowing why
or explaining how, to cry out that it is dangerous. This, in all
ages, has been the reception of every discovery. The disciples of
the various philosophical schools of Greece inveighed against each
Qther, and made reciprocal accusations of impiety and perjury.
The people, in their turn, detested the philosophers, and accused
·
,bose who investigated the causes of things of presumptuously in-
vading tl1e rights of the Divinity. Pythagoras and Anaxagoras
were driven from their native countries, on account of their novel
opinions; Democritus was treated as insane by the Abderites, for
his attempts to find out the cause of madness by dissections; and
Socrates, for having demonstrated the unity of God, was forced to
drink the juice uf hemlock. Several of those who excelled in
physics in the fom·teentb c.entury were punished with death as sor-
cerers or magtctans. Galileo, when seventy years of age, was cast
into prison for having proved the motion of the earth. Yesalius,
Yarolins, and Harvey, were persecuted on account of their dis-
coveries. Those who first maintained the influence ofclimate upon
the intellectual faculties of mao were suspected ofmaterialism. The
pions philosophers Bonnet, Lionreus, Buffon, the virtuous Lavater,
and many others, have been treated as materialists and fatalists.
• Bishop Butler, Sermon vi.
ON THE RELIGIOUS CO!'ISTITUTION OF MAN. 109
The instances of Aristotle and Descartes may be quoted, to
show the good and had fortune of new doctrines. The ancient
antagonists of Aristotle caused his books to be burned; but in the
time of Francis I. the writings of Ramus against Aristotle were
similarly treated. "Whoever opposed Aristotle was declared here-
tic; and under pain of being sent to tl1e galleys, philosophers were
prohibited from combating Aristotle. At tl1e present day, the phi-
losophy of Aristotle is no longer taught except at the university of
Oxford in England. Descartes was persecuted for teaching the
doctrine of innate ideas; he was accused of atheism, though he had
written on the existence of God; and his books were burnt by
order of tl1e university of Paris. Shortly afterwards, however,
the same learned ·body adopted the doctrine of innate ideas, and
when Locke and Condillac attacked it, tile cry of materialism and
fatalism was turned against them.
Thus the same opinions have been considered at one time as
dangerous because they were new, and at another as useful because
they were ancient. 'Vhat is to be inferred from this, but that man
deserves to be pitied; that the opinions of contemporaries on the
truth or falsehood, the good or bad consequences of a new doctrine
are always to be suspected; and that the onlyobject of an author
ought to be to point out the truth. Ancillon is therefore right in
saying with Bonnet: Reason does not know any useless or danger-
ous truth. That which is, is. This is the proper answer for those
who, valuing things only by the advantage they themselves may
reap, are incessantly asking, Cui bono-what is this good for?
and for those also who anxiously ask, To what does this learl ?
Jesus, the son of Sirach, long ago said, ' 'Ve ought not to demand
what is this good for; the usefulness of every thing will be knmm
in its due time.'
. Gall and I never douhted that ignorance and knavery would at-
tack our doctrine with abuse; what does not man abuse? Tell him
that he ought to expiate his sins, and in his superstition be will im-
molate his children. Have not Lucretius and his disciples bent all
their powers to prove, that belief in the immortality of the soul in-
110 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
spires fear of. death, and poisons every enjoyment of life ? while
Christians consider it as the basis of order, of happiness, of morali-
ty, and the chief and best solace amid all the calamities that assail
them. Establishments for vaccination, and conductors for lightning
upon buildings, are, in the opinion of some, laudable and beneficial
to humanity; but, in the eyes of others, they are offences against Di-
vine Providence. In one word, man finds some cause of com-
plaint in all; but we may say with St. Bernard, ' '\'Ve ought to judge
differently the complaints of the ignorant and those of the hypocriti-
cal. The former complain from ignorance, the latter from malice;
the first because they do not know the truth, the second because
they hate it.'
Malebranche has very well painted the enemies of new truths.
' Persons of solid and true piety,' says he, ' never condemn what
they do not understand; but the ignorant, the superstitious, and the
hypocritical do. The superstitious by a slavish fear are enraged
when they see an ingenious and penetrating man. If he assign the
natural causes of thunder and its effects, they deem him an atheist.
Hypocrites, on the contrary, though led by particular motives,
make use of notions generally venerated, and combat new truths
under the mask of some other truth; sometimes they secretJy deride
what every one respects, and produce in the minds of others a re-
putation which is the more to be feared, in proportion as the things
which they abuse are more sacred.'
It is a pity that religious people and those who contend for know-
ledge, instead of uniting their exertions in order to establish truth,
constantly endeavor to restrain each others' pursuits; the former
particularly maintain, that knowledge is to be limited by religion,
whilst the latter admit with Lord llacon that ' a little natural philo-
sophy inclines the mind to atheism; but a farther proceeding brings
the mind back to religion,' adding at the same time with the same
extraordinary man that ' there are, besides the authority of scrip-
tures, two reasons of exceeding great weight and force why religion
should dearly protect all increase of natural knowledge: tJ1e one be-
cause it leads to the greater exaltation of the glory of God; for as
ON THE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION OF !\IAN. 111
the psalms and other scriptures do often invite us to consider, to
magnify the great and wonderful works of God, so if we should
rest only in the contemplation of those which first offer themselves
to our senses, we should do a like injury to the majesty of God
as if we should judge of the store of some excellent jeweller by that
only which is set out to the street in his shop. The other reason
is because it is a singular help and a preservative against unbelief
and error: For says our Saviour, you err, not knowing the scrip-
tures nor the power of God; laying before us two books or vol-
umes to study, if we will be secured from error. First, the
scriptures revealing the will of God, and then the creatures express-
ing his power.' There is no revelation of natUJ·al sciences, but
the revealed u·uth does not prohibit the knowledge of nature.
Moses was well acquainted with all the Egyptian learning; Solomon
petitioned for wisdom from God, and in the prophecy of Daniel it
is said that ' science shall be increased.' Its progress indeed has
been extraordinary since the times of Lord Bacon, yet I think we
may still repeat that which he mentions in his essay on the Inter
pretation of Nature, viz. that 'the new found world of land was not
greater addition to the ancient continent than there remains at this
day a world of inventions and sciences unknown, having respect to
those that are known.' None of the arts and sciences conducive
to the commodities of life is revealed,-will therefore pious people
reject them? Let us rather come to the conclusion that under-
standing and religion do not exclude each other, bnt should be culti-
vated in harmony; that divines ha,•e no more right to interdict the
examination of the Creator's works than natural philosophers are
allowed to stop the investigation into his revealed will concerning
our moral conduct in this life and oor state in that to come.
Phrenology, by maintaining that the manifestation of the faculties
of the mind depends in this life on the organization of the brain, is
said to establish materialism. Let us set out by observing, that the
word materialism has two different significations. One class of
materialists maintain that there is no Creator ; that matter has always
existed ; and that all the phenomena of the world are effects of
112 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
matter. The ancient Romish church used materialism in this
sense, and, at the present day, the word is often taken as synony-
mous with atheism. The position, that mental manifestations
dPpend on the brain, bas nothing in common with this sort of
materialism. He who inquires into the laws of phenomena, cannot
be an atheist ; be cannot consider the admirable and wise concate-
nation of all things in nature, and their mutual relations, as existing
without a primitive cause.
Another kind of materialism is taught by those who admit a Cre-
ator, hut maintain that man does not consist of two different entities
-body and soul; and that all phenomena, ordinarily attributed to
the soul, result only from forms and combinations of matter. The
soul, in thei1· opinion, is a fluid of extreme tenuity, distributed over
all things, and enlivening the whole organization. Neither has
Phrenology any thing in common with this opinion. Neither Dr.
Gall nor myself have ever endeavored to explain final causes ; we
have always declared, that we make no inquiry into the nature
of the soul, nor into that .of the body; that we are led solely by
experiment. Now we have seen that every faculty is manifested
by means of the organization. 'Vhen our antagonists, however,
maintain that we are materialists, they ought to show where we
teach that there is nothing but matter. The entire falsehood of the
accusation is made obvious by a review of the following considera-
tions : The expression organ designates an instrument by means
of which·some faculty proclaims itself; the muscles, for example,
are the organs of voluntary motion, but they are not the moving
power; the eyes are the organ of sight, but they are not the faculty
of seeing. 'Ve separate the faculties of the soul or of the mind
from the organs, and consider the cerebral parts as the instruments
by means of which they manifest themselves. Now, even the
adversaries of Phrenology must, to a certain extent, admit the
dependance of the soul on the body. In the very same passage in
which Professor Walter of Berlin imputes materialism to our
physiology of the brain, he says : ' The brain of children is pulpy,
and in decrepit old age it is hard. It must have a certain degree
ON TilE RELIGIOUS CONSTITUTION Of' MAN. 113
of firmness and elasticity, that the soul may manifest itself with
great splendor. Rut this consideration does not lead to material-
ism, it shows only the mutual union of the body and soul.'
The mutual relation between mind and body is an ancient doc-
trine. Many placed the feelings in tl1e viscera, and intellect in the
brain. The whole brain is commonly considered as the organ of
understanding, whilst we consider the anterior lobes as sufficient
to intellect, and ascribe special manifestations of the mind to indi-
vidual portions of the brain. In fact we assign smaller organs to
mental manifestations, and therefore cannot be more materialists
than our predecessors, whether anatomists, physiologists, or phi-
losophers and moralists, who have admitted the dependance of the
soul on the body. Materialism is essentially the same, whether the
faculties of the mind be said to depend on the whole body, on the
whole brain, or individual powers on particular parts of the brain :
the faculties still depend on organization for their exhibition.
To show that all ancient and modern philosophers and the fathers
of the Christian church agree witl1 us, that the manifestations of the
mind depend on the body, I shall quote a few of their opinions.
Plato considered the body as a prison of the soul. Seneca says:
'Corpus hoc animi pa:na ac pondtiS est, (Epist' 66.) The Carte-
sians, by their doctrine of the tracts which they suppose in the
brain, admit the influence of organization on the intellectual opera-
tions. Malebranche, when explaining the difference in the facul-
ties of the sexes, and the various and peculiar tastes of nations and
individuals, by the firmness and softness, dryness and moisture of
the cerebral fibres, remarks, that our time cannot be better em-
ployed than in investigating the material causes of human phenom-
ena. Charles Bonnet said, 'That nlankind can only be known
and penetrated by their physical nature.' St. Thomas" said,
'Though the spirit is no coporeal faculty, the spiritual functions,
as memory, imagination, cannot take place without the bodily or-
ganization. Therefore, if the organs cannot exercise their activi-
ty, the spiritual functions are. disturbed. For the same reason a
11 Contra Gentiles, c. 12. n. 9.
I5
ll4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
happy organization of the human body is always accompanied with
excellent intellectual faculties.' St. Gregorius Nyssenus * com-
pared the body of man to a musical instrument. 'It sometimes
happens,' says he, ' that excellent musicians cannot show their talent
because their instrument is in a bad state. It is the same with the
functions of the soul ; they are disturbed or suspended according
to the changes which take place in the organs; for it is the nature
of the spirit, that it cannot exercise conveniently its functions but by
sound organs.' St. Augustin,t St. Cyprian,:j: St. Ambrose,§ St.
Chrysostom,ll Eusebius and many other religious and profane
writers, consider the body or even the brain as the instrument of
the soul, and distinctly teach that the mind is regulated by the state
of the body. Phrenologists, therefore, leave the question of ma-
terialism, where they found it.
SECTION VI.
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN.
THE objects contained in this Section are of the greatest impor-
tance, not only to individuals but to mankind at large. They have
been examined at all ages, but they are far from being sufficiently
understood, and the most contradictory opinions have been defend-
ed. I shall consider in succession the doctrine of fatalism, neces-
sity, free will and morality, in reference to Phrenology.
Fatalism.
Phrenology, by contending that all mental dispositions are innate,
is said to lead to fatalism. In reply I remark that this term has
different meanings. Certain writers understand by fatalism every
thing in the world and the world itself as existing, and all events as
* De hominis opificio, c. 12.
§De Ollie.
l De lib. arbit. +De operibus Chriati.
II Ho mil. II. III. super Epist. ad Heb.
0;11 THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 115
r€sults of chance, and not of a supreme and guiding intelli6ence.
This fatalism involves atheism, and cannot be reproached to Phre-
nology. Another kind of fatalism admits the creation of the world,
and in every being a determinate nature, and operations according
to determinate laws, in inorganized as well as organized beings, in
vegetative and animal life. No one doubts of this truth in refer-
ence to other beings. 'Ve can never gather grapes from a thorn
bush, and an apple tree can never bring forth pears; and a cal can
never be changed into a dog, or any animal into another.
It is also certain that the faculties of mankind and their laws are
fixed by creation. First, his existence is involuntary. Who has
called himself into being? Does. it depend on the will of any one
to be born in this or in that country ? of these or those parents?
under this or that system of government, or of religion? Who has
determined his sex? 'Vho can say, I am the eldest or youngest
because it was my choice? 'Vho has chosen the circumstances,
surrounded by which he sees the light, the capacities of teachers,
the mental frame of those about him from earliest infancy, and the
thousand other accidents that influence him through future life?
The organs of vegetative life perform their determinate functions
without our will; the liver can never perform digestion; the kid-
neys can never secrete bile ; what is poison can never become
wholesome aliment, and so on. It is the same with animal life
The existence of the five external senses and their laws are an
effect of creation. It does not depend on our will to have the
power of seeing, hearing, feeling, smelling, and tasting; we can
never hear or see with our fingers, nor smell with our lips, &c.
It is impossible to see as red that which is blue, or to see as great
that which is small. The propensities, sentiments and intellectual
faculties, their mutual influence and their various relations to each
•6ther,'ate determined by the Creator. The determinateness of
these faculties may, doubtless, be termed fatalism.
Moreover the individual dispositions of body and mind are given
in different degrees and their manife~tations depend on organization.
There are individuals deaf, blind, stupid and intelligent, from birth.
116 PIIILOSOPHY OF 'l'HE MIND.
Bishop Butler* says, ' If, in considering our state of trial, we go
on to observe how mankind behave under it, we shall find that some
have so little sense of it, that they scarce look beyond the passing
day; they are so taken up witl1 present gratifications as to have in
a manner no feeling of consequences, no regard to their future ease
or fortune in this life, any more than to their happiness in another.
Some appear to be blinded and deceivedby inordinatepassion in their
worldly concerns as well as in rl'ligion; others are not deceived,
but, as it were, forcibly carried away by the little passions, against
their better judgment and feeble resolutions, too, of acting better ;
and there are men, and truly there are not a few, who shamelessly
avow, not their interest, but their mere will and pleasure to be
their law of life ; and who, in open defiance of every thing that is
reasonable, will go on in a course of vicious extravagance, foreseeing
with no remorse and little fear that it will be their temporal ruin;
and some of them under the apprehension of the consequences
of wickedness in another state. And to speak in the most
moderate way, human creatures are not only continually liable
to go wrong voluntarily, but we see likewise that they often
actually do so with respect to their temporal interests as well as
witl1 respect to religion.' Daily experience, indeed, shows, that in
different persons the various feelings and talents of the mind are
active in different degrees. This kind of fatalism is certain, and
founded in nature, and even in the Supreme Being himself; for
perfection and infinite goodness and infinite justice inhere in the
nature of God, and he cannot desire evil. So also the feelings
proper to man, according to nature, must desire the common wel-
fare. It is therefore not astonishing that the philosophers of China,
Hindostan, and Greece, the eastern and western Christians, and
the followers of Mahomet, have blended a certain kind of fatalism
with their religious opinions. Indeed, it cannot be dangerous to
insist on such a fatalism in so far as it exists. Christ, his apostles,
and tl1e fathers of the church have done so. A proverb of Solo-
mon is, 'the Lord gives wisdom;' according to Cht·istianity, 'The
• Analogy of Religion, p. 92.
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 117
tree is known by its fruit ; ' * St. Paul says, ' And we know that all
things work together for good to them that love God, to them who
are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did fore-
know, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of
his Son ; that he might be the first-born among many brethren.
Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called : and
whom he called, them he also justified : and whom he justified,
them he also glorified.' t And again: ' 'Vho maketh thee to differ
from another? and what hast thou that thou didst not receive?' t
St. Augustin taught openly and distinctly our dependance on God,
and commanded the preaching of this truth. 'As no one,' says
he, 'can give to himself life, so nobody can give to himself under-
standing.'<§. He caJls gifts of God, all good qualities, as the fear
of God, charity, faith, obedience, justice, veracity. He says, II
that God has not distributed in an equal manner noble sentiments
any more than temporal good, as health, strength, riches, honors,
the gifts of arts and sciences. I declare then that I believe in
that fatalism or in that determinate arrangement by the Creator,
according to which the nature of man, his fundamental dispositions
of body and mind, their relations and dependence on organization,
are fixed. Man in this life can never be aiJ angel. I believe
farther in a certain hlnd of
Necessity.
The doctrine of necessity has also occupied many minds; tt nas
been admitted by some and denied by others. It is necessary to
come to a clear understanding about the meaning of the word. I
take it as the principle of causation-, or in the sense of the relation
between cause and effect. This principle is admitted in the physi-
cal and intellectual world ; but in the moral operations of the mind
it is not sufficiendy attended to. Yet there is no moral effect
without a moral cause, any more than a physical or intellectual
"'Mat. xii. 33. t Rom. viii. 28-30. t 1 Cor. iv. 7.
§ Lib. de Fide, c. 1. II Lib. de Coreptione et Gratia.
118 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
event without an adequate cause. The principle of causation in
the moral world is expressed by the connexion between motives
and actions. It seems to me surprising, that this connexion should
have been theoretically questioned, while every human being is
daily dependent upon its truth. It is perceived in all our projects,
in the direction of our family, i'n the regulations of the government,
and .in every social proceeding. Motives are proposed whenever
we wish to produce actions.
Without the law of causation in the moral world there would be
no foresight of events, and no science of politics. One might act
reasonably or unreasonably, justly or unjustly, well or ill, because
he acts without motive. Such a state is contradictory in itself,
and in this supposition all institutions which implicate the happi·
ness of mankind would be useless. Education, morality, religion,
reward and punishment should all be inefficient, man being deter·
mined by no motive. And we might expeot from every one ha-
tred and perfidy as well as friendship and fidelity, vice as well as
virtue. Such a state is merely speculative, whilst in reality ~an
is subjected to the law of causation like the rest of nature. This
state alone has been professed hy ancient philosophers and legisla-
tors, and is supposed by religion and moral doctrines, which furnish
the nobler motives to direct man in his actions. But I do not
believe in
Necessity as irresistibility.
It is positive, that the mental faculties are innate ; that their mani·
festations depend on cerebral organs (Fatality;) and that without
power we cannot act (Necessity.) The adversaries of Phrenology
object, that, therefore, all actions must be unavoidable and irresis-
tible, and that there is no responsibility.
It is a fact that without power we cannot act, but it is also a
fact that the power being given we need not act. Neither in ani·
mals nor in man are all the faculties active at the same moment
and irresistible. It constantly happens that one power acts while
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION or MAN. I 19
the others are quiescent, and that one deed rather than another is
done. If this were not, it should be the height of cruelty to pun-
ish animals to prevent peculiar actions. If a dog be punished for
having eaten under certain circumstances, do we not see that
though hungry, he will not touch a bit under the same occasion ?
And is it not precisely so with man ? He has a great number of
faculties, but are they always active, are they irresistible ? VVe
can walk, dance and sing, but are we constantly forced to do so ?
·who does not often feel within himself a wish for something or an
inclination to do some act which he combats by other motives ? In-
dubitably then, neither animals nor man are irresistibly forced to act;
St. Augustin long ago said,* ' God in giving the power does not in-
flict the irresistibility.' Man then is free and accountable ; how far?
Free u:ill, or liberty and responsibility.
Some philosophers attributed to man an unbounded liberty ;
they made him independent of every natural law, so to say, his own
creator, and his will the sole cause of his actions; nay, they gave
him an absolute liberty without motives. Such a liberty, however,
in a created being is contradictory, and all that can be s1id in
favor of it, is destitute of signification.
Being free is the reverse of being forced, and free will or liber-
ty is the opposite of irresistibility. The whole constitution of
man, though determined by the Creator, does not exclude liberty,
deliberation, choice, preference and action, from certain motives
and to certain ends. All this is matter of experience universally
acknowledged, and every man must every moment be conscious
of it. Liberty belongs to the constitution of man.
Some moralists, with Dr. Price~ maintain that understanding is
necessary to establish free will, others derive it from an innate
moral sense which is everlasting with truth and reason. My view
of free will or liberty is as follows. It consists in the possibility
of doing or of not doing any thing, and in the faculty of knmo-
• Lib. de litera et opiritu, c. 31.
120 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
ing motives and of dete>·mining one's self according to them.
Three things then must be considered in liberty : will, the plurality
of motives, and the influence of the will upon the instruments
which perform the actions.
The first object to be considered is the meaning of the word
'\Viii. I have already stated, and repeat for the sake of clearness,
that many authors confound will with the propensities, inclinations,
or concupiscences, and therefore deny the existence of free-will.
Internal satisfaction and free-will, however, are very different things.
Satisfaction accompanies the fulfilling of every desire. The sheep
and tiger do not act freely, because they are pleased, the one
with grazing, and the other with tearing his prey in pieces. Each
faculty of animal life being active, gives a desire or an inclination
which man and animals experience involuntarily. They are forced
to feel hunger if the nerves of that sense act in a certain manner ;
they must see, if the light strikes the retina of their eyes, &c.
Man, then, has n~ither any power upon accidental external impres-
sions, nor over the existence of internal feelings. He must feel
au inclination if its appropriate organ be excited; and not master
of this, he cannot be answerable for it. But inclinations, propen-
sities, or desires, are not •vill, because man and animals often have
these, and yet will not. A hungry dog, for example, which has
been beaten, occasionally refuses the food offered to him ; he is
hungry, he wants, but wills not to eat. It is the same with man.
How often are we all obliged to act against our inclinations! Thus,
experience proves not only that the faculties do not act irresistibly
either in man or in animals, or, in other words, that there exists
libel·ty or freedom, b11t also that inclinations are not yet will.
Freedom, however, presupposes will. How then is will origin-
ated?
To have will, to decide fm· or against, I must evidently know
what has passed or is to happen ; I must compare : hence, will
begins with the perceptive and reflective faculties, i. e. with under-
standing; the will of every animal is therefore proportionate to its
understanding. Man has the greatest freedom, because his will
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 121
has the widest range ; and this because he has the most understand-
ing. He knows more than any animal ; compares the present
with the past ; foresees future events ; and discovers the relation
between cause and effect. It is even to be observed that not only
tcill, but also our participation and accountableness, begin with the
perceptive faculties. Idiots have sometimes inclinations, but they
are neither free nor answerable. It is the same with children
before a certain age ; they are said not to be capable of distinguish-
ing good from evil. A man of great understanding and good edu-
cation is also more blameable for a fault than an uncultivated and
stupid individual. Thus, the first condition to freedom is will, an
effect of knowledge and reflection.
The second concerns what is to be known and compared, viz.
motives. Will is the decision of the understanding, but is adopted
according to motives. These result principally from the propen-
sities and sentiments, and sometimes from the perceptive faculties ;
. hence they are as numerous and energetic as these, and the animal
which has many and powerful faculties, has many and vigorous
motives, and freedom in proportion. The plurality o( motives,
then, is the second condition to liberty. An animal endowed with
only one faculty could act but in one way, and cease from action
only when this became inactive. If, on the contrary, it were en-
dowed with several faculties, it would be susceptible of different
motives, and a choice would become possible. Yet a plurality of
motives is not alone sufficient to freedom of action; for, in that
case, the stronger faculty would occasion the deed. If you offer
food to a hungry dog, and at the same moment make a hare run
before him, he will eat, or follow the hare, according to his strongest
propensity. This is not freedom ; ' the strongest propensity only
prevails. If, on the contrary, the dog, endowed with the faculty
of knowing and comparing, has been punished for following hares,
he may tremble and have palpitations without pursuing ; be chooses
between different motives, he desires, but be remembers the cl~as­
tisement, and he will not. Thus liberty requires will and a plural-
ity of motives. It, however, demands still a third condition, viz.,
16
122 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
the influence of the will upon the instruments by which the actions
are performed.
In cases of disease, it sometimes happens that different motives
are known, and that the will has no influence upon actions. In
convulsive fits, for instance, the patient may know what he does,
but necessarily beats his chest, or head. It is remarkable, too,
that the will may put certain faculties into action, while others are
abstracted from its influence. It cannot excite the affective facul-
ties, nor prevent their acti,,ity, and therefore we are not answerable
for our feelings ; but it has greater power on the intellectual facul-
ties, and can reproduce their actions in thinking of their functions.
It also influences the external senses by means of voluntary motion,
and thus has power over the instruments of action. This is the
reason why man is accountable for actions proceeding from feelings,
though these themselves are involuntary. But soon as volunta1y
motion is withdrawn from the government of the understanding and
will, liberty, responsibility and guilt are no more. Thus, true
liberty is founded on three conditions united, and ceases as soon
as any one of them is wanting.
' Examine it narrowly,' says Diderot, 'and you will see that
the word liberty is a wm·d devoid of meaning ; that there are not,
and there cannot be, free beings ; that we are only what accords
with the general order, with our organization, our education, and
the chain of events. These dispose of us invincibly. \Ve can
no more conceive a being acting without a motive, than we can
one of the arms of a balance acting without a weight. The motive
is always exterior and foreign, fastened upon us by some cause
distinct from ourselves. \Vhat deceives us is the prodigious variety
of our actions, joined to the habit which we catch at our birth, of
confounding the voluntary and the free. We have been so often
praised and blamed, and have so often praised and blamed others,
that we contract an inveterate prejudice of believing that we and
they will and act freely. But if there is no liberty, there is no
action that merits either praise or blame ; neither vice nor virtue;
nothing that ought either to be rewarded or punished. What then
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTIO~ OF MAN. 123
is the distinction among men ? The doing of good and the doing
of ill ! The doer of ill is one who must be destroyed, not punished.
The doer of good is lucky, not ,·irtuous.-Reproach others for
nothing, and repent of nothing; this is the first step to wisdom.'
Si~ilar passages may be found in many works of French writers.
But their ignorance of human nature is evident. !\Ian is supposed
to be a blank paper, tabula rasa, and therefore, every moti,·e con-
sidered as 'exterior,' whilst, according to Phrenology, every
condition of liberty is given to man, like all his powers, and their
employment is left to the influence of his reflective faculties.
Freedom or liberty however is not absolute, and in itself it is a
gift of the Creator. !\Ian is free though he is not free to be so,
and he is made free in order to be answerable or accountable for
his actions. There is no effect without a cause, and no action
without a motive, but man has received certain faculties to examine
the motives of action and to make a choice among them. These
faculties again act according to laws which are determined by the
Creator, as well as those of life and nutrition. !\Ian, therefore,
cannot will every thing indiscriminately, he is obliged to gire the
preference to that which seems good and to place one motive
above another. This choice among motives constitutes our free will.
' God exercises,' says Bishop Butler," 'the. same kind of gov-
ernment over us with that which a father exercises over his chil-
dren. It evidently appears that veracity and justice must be the
natural rule and measure of exercising this government to a being
who can have no competition or interfering of interest with his
creatures. The intelligent author of nature has given us a moral
faculty, by which we distinguish between actions, and approve
some as virtues and of good desjlrt, and disapprove others as
vicious and of ill desert, which moral discernment then implies a
rule of action.'
True liberty in itself, however, has not yet a moral character,
for many animals exhibit liberty, in different degrees. We must
consequently examine where the morality of actions begins.
* Part I. Ch. vi. of the opinion ofnecessity.
124 PlliLOSOPHY OF THE MINU.
On Jlforality, its origin and nature.
The doctrine of morality-Ethics-is the most interesting sub-
ject which can come under our views. Ethics embraces all that
is loved in God and in man, the notions of good and evil, of right
and wrong, of virtue and vice, of merit and demerit, of moral
liberty and responsibility.
The majority of every existing community require to be conduc-
ted by regulations which must even be imposed upon them in a
dogmatic way. A very few only are capable of understanding the
concatenation of causes and effects ; and m·en the natural laws
will be incomprehensible dogmas to the great mass of mankind.
Eelief in, at least submission to, the true laws is quite indispensable
to the well being of man, and hence obligatory upon all, but spe-
cially upon those who know them.
!t is remarkable that hitherto all nations have adopted their re-
ligion, and a part of their moral laws, from revelation. We may,
therefore easily conceive that the priesthood will continue to esti-
mate their services highly, to keep religious notions stationary, and
to make their· own interpretations·pass as the revealed will of God.
All positive laws are imposed, but the obligation of bowing to
them is no proof oftheir being what they ought to be. Indeed the
most opposite rules of conduct have, at different times, been en-
joined even as divine and infallible, and it has not generally appear-
ed singular that divine laws have varied according to persons,
localities and circumstances. I cannot, howe\·er, help saying that
my esteem is not great for a legislator who is constantly in contra-
diction with himself, who desires moral good, hut who notwithstand-
ing his omnipotence corrects only by exterminating, who punishes
the innocent on account of the guilty.' My intention here is only
to show that belief, or the necessity of obeying, does not prove
the perfection of positive laws. •
Some actions in the Christian doctrine ·are styled good, and
others bad or sinful, and whilst the first are commanded, the last
are forbidden. Good actions are farther stated to be done after
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. '125
the spirit, and sins after the flesh, though the flesh is allowed not
to be evil in itself. But if actions be not specified, how can we
know which are good and which are bad ? Is there no standard,
according to which they may be judged universally ?
In every branch of natural science positive and exact knowledge
is sought after. I think that the same ought to be done in regard
to the morality of human actions. Mere faith in religious opinions
will no longer suffice, the reign of positive truth should begin.
The moral nature of man ought to be examined, with observation
as a guide, and reduced to principles capable of general and con-
stant application. Invention in the knowledge of man cannot be
permitted, and arbitrary interpretations must give place to invaria-
ble laws ; actions done in conformity with which will be declared
as good, and those not in conformity as bad. Morality must be-
come a science.
The nature of every bemg is regulated by laws, and the human
body is evidently so. The laws of propagation and nutrition cannot
be changed, and from analogy we may conclude that the moral na·
ture of man is not l~ft to the guidance of chance. But in what do
the moral laws consist, or how are they to be determined ? Shall
it be by force, by a majority of votes? or are. thEtY to be sought
from among the works and decrees of the Creator ?
It is of the highest importance to be convinced that human nature
is governed by natural laws. 1\Iany philosophers have acknowledg·
ed the existence of natural laws of morality as well as of organi-
zation. In the opinion of Confucius ' law is that which is conform·
able to nature.' Cicero thinks that the law cannot vary, but that
it is the same for every nation ; and that no injustice, whatever
nanae is given to it, can be considered as law, though a whole
nation may submit to its infliction. Lord Bacon calls the laws of
nature the law of laws. Charron says, that wise men conduct
themselves, that nature is their guide, and that the laws are at the
bottom of their hearts. 1\Iontesquieu observes, that to say there is
neither justice nor injustice except that which is so declared by
positive laws, is to say that the radii of a circle are not equal before
126 PHILOSOPHY m' THE MIND.
it is traced. Nevertheless this writer allowed governments the
power of determining or making the law ; his comparison, however,
proves that the law exists prior to governments, which are estab·
Iished merely to watch over its execution ; the number of gover·
nors is here a secondary point, the object remains invariably the
same, viz. the enforcement of the natural law. St. Paul speaks
in the most decisive mannet· of natural morality, in stating that
some persons without the law do things ordered by the law, since
this is written in their hearts.
'Man,' says Volney,* 'like the whole world of which he is a
pat·t, is ruled by natural laws, which are invariable in their essence,
regular in their application, consequent in their effects, and the
common cause both of good and evil. They are not written in the
stars, nor hidden in mysterious ideas; but inherentin human nature,
and identified with man's existence. They act on his senses,
advertise his intelligence, and bring with every action penalty or
reward. Let man learn these laws, let him understand his own
and the nature of things around him, and he will know the cause
of his griefs and the remedy.'
Volney believed in the existence of natural laws ; but he did
not, in my opinion, understand the basis of natural morality, when
he conceived that it was self preservation. In his hypothesis, ani-
mals should have a moral nature ; but from what I have already
said, and from what I shall still say, it follows that neither personal
interest nor selfishness of any kind can be recognised as the foun-
dation of morality.
From the great influence of the natural laws upon the condition
of mankind it follows that it is exceedingly important not to err in
their determination. To elucidate the natnral laws in general, and
those of morality in particular, 1 make the following remarks.
ln examining the origin of morality we find that the greater
number of persons derive the moral sense from revelation; that
some philosophers consider it as innate; whilst others ascribe it to
intelligence, or even to personal interest.
* Ruins, ch. v:
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 127
The ancient doctrine that revelation is the only cause of moral-
ity must be given up, since the moral feelings are innate indepen·
dently of religion, and since revelation can only direct the innate
sentiments in their functions. On the other hand it is also certain,
that neither the moral nor any other feelings can be derived from
intellect. This may guide the functions of the feelings, but cannot
produce them. The details of these propositions are found in tue
first volume of this work, where I treat of the moral powers of
man. I therefore here confine myself to the consideration of per·
sonal interest as the cause of morality.
1\Ian, say the partisans of selfishness, acts by interest ; he does
that which gives him the greatest pleasure, or seems the most ad-
vantageous. Egotism, continue they, is not confined to the search
after the pleasures of the body or of sense, bm extends over
all internal sensations, and all moral and intellectual enjoy·
ments. To act, in order to experience pleasure in the moment
of action, or to obtain reward either in this life or in that which is
to come, is still to act from self-interest.
I grant that man is eminently selfish, and that selfishness in union
with pride makes him believe what he likes. ·we may admit
with Benjamin Franklin, that be who for giving a draught of water
to a thirsty person should expect to be paid with a good plantation,
would be modest in his demands, compared with those who think
they deserve heaven for the little good they do on earth. The
basis of morality founded on selfishness, indeed, is unworthy, igno·
ble, and uncertain at the same time. "Wherever it prevails man
will be unhappy ; and agreement, in regard to that which is moral-
ly- good, impossible. Individual inclinations of legislators will
determine the laws ; and their self-satisfaction be the principal
motive of their regulations. This is the law of the strongest,
assisted by intelligence. It advises governments to treat subjects
with benevolence and justice, because in this they find their own
advantage ; to keep the community in ignorance, as it is easier to
persuade a~d arbitrarily to guide ignorant people than to convince
those with cultivated understandings; and to foster superstition,
128 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
since it is an excellent means of effecting whatever seems
convenient.
The insufficiency of this morality has been felt, and therefore it
has been deemed necessary to add, that every one has a title to sat-
isfy his selfish desires, provided he does not trench on the rights
of others. This is the doctrine which moralists of modern times
endeavor to establish. It is certainly far superior to the vile sys-
tem founded on the right of the strongest, which, for so many
centuries, has desolated the world. Self-Jove, which undoubtedly
exists in man, is here combined with love of others,-also an in-
herent principle in human nature.
This doctrine, if followed, will put !ID end to many abuses, and
prevent numerous disorders ; in many respects it will also promote
general happiness. "Whoever loves humanity must therefore desire
to see it propagated. Nevertheless, the doctrine is founded on
the inferior motive of personal interest ; and it is what neither
Nature nor Christianity teaches.
Other philosophers, still considering self-interest and intelligence
together as the cause of morality, say that the strong govern the
weak ; and that if the weak occasionally become the strong, they
throw off the yoke, and impose their own will in turn. Thus it is
always the strong who govern. In these circumstances one fears
another, and then both agree upon what shall be considered as law.
This system, therefore, is founded on convention or agreement
between the governors and the governed, for their common ad-
vantage.
Let it be understood that no sentiment results from any other,
nor from intelligence. Fear then cannot produce the moral sense.
Animals are sensible to fear, and yet are ruled by the right of the
strongest. Fear, it is true, may become a motive to act and to
make laws ; but it conceives neither the necessity nor the justice of
making laws.
Positive facts and reasonmg prove, that the basis of morality is
inherent in human nature; but those who treat ofjustice and virtue
and admit this innateness, do not always attach the same meaning
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 129
to these expressions, and their nature and essence are not yet de-
termined. Both terms are taken at one time for faculties, at another
for actions. Farther, in considering virtues as good actions, and
in maintaining that every good action which has required an inward
struggle is virtuous, the meaning of the word virtue is still very
variable. The same thing happens with the terms vice, immoral
or unjust, and sin, in the language of religion.
The ancient philosophers spoke of cnrdinal virtues, but these
are only the just employment of certain fundamental powers.
Temperance, for instance, is the right use of the pleasures of
sense ; prudence, of circumspection and intelligence ; force, of
courage and firmness; justice, of conscientiousness, benevolence,
and self-love, together.
The virtues styled theological result from three fundamental
faculties: hope and charity belong to primitive sentiments, faith or
religious belief depends on hope and marvellousness.
Hitherto religious and civil governments have decided on what
tney desired should be called virtue or vice. The same action has,
according to circumstances, been declared on one occasion a virtue,
and on another a vice. Courage is virtuous in conquerors, as well
as in those who defend themselves against aggressors. The church
of Rome commands celibacy as a virtue, while other governments
reward those who bring up a family. It is remarkable, that all
codes, revealed or profane, with one exception, have declared the
amor patrire, or love of country, a principal virtue. The Christian
doctrine alone acknowledges no exclusionary patriotism, it alone
commands universal love.
As in every religious system and civil code the determination of
right and wrong varies, the perplexity of the lm"er of truth must be
great; and as long as virtue is defined according to circumstances,
or depends on the good will of civil and religious legislators, it will
be contradictory and cannot become absolute. Absolute virtue,
however, is to be proved; in other words, morality is to become a
science. This cannot happen as long as philosophy and religion
are not united, and as long as the fundamental powers of the ruind,
17
130 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
their origin, their modes of action, the effects of their mutual in-
fluence, the conditions of their manifestations, the laws of their
improvement anrl the moral and religious nature of man are not
perfectly unde1·stood.
Whatever may be said against the plurality of the faculties and
their peculiar organs, they must be admitted. Both vegetative and
animal life is, in fact, more or· less complicated in the different
orders of animals. The vegetative is exceedingly simple in the
lowest tribes of all. Nutrition is limited to mere intus-susception,
absorption, and assimilation. It becomes complieated by degi'ees,
and in the mammalia includes mastication, deglutition, digestion,
chylification, sanguification, respiration, circulation, assimilation, and
a great number of secondary and auxiliary functions, as the secre-
tion of bile, of pancreatic juice, of urine, &c. Even the particular
functions which aid in repwducing the organization, as intus-sus·
ception, digestion, respiration, circulation, &c. are performed by
a greater or less quantity of apparatus. Yet in the most complex.
as in the most simple animals, the end is the same, viz, the pre·
servation of the individual.
Animal life is also very simple in the most inferior classes of
living beings. It begins with the sense of feeling, is complicated
by the addition of taste, smell, hearing, and seeing; by various
instincts or propensities, sentiments, and intellectual faculties; and,
finally, attains its utmost complexity in man; he alone unites all the
faculties which are dispersed among different animals; and, farther,
is endowed with several in peculiar. The faculties of man, then,
are multiplied. Let us now examine whether there be any sub-
ordination among them or not; let us see if they be all equally
important.
Neither in vegetative nor in animal life is every function of like
excellence. Mastication, and the mixture of saliva with the food,
are less important than digestion, circulation, and assimilation.
The secretion of certain glands is less necesssary than respiration,
&c. The same law holds in animal life. Of the external senses,
every one would rather lose the sense of smell than of sight.
ON THE MORAL CO:"STITUTION OF MAN. 131
"
Who would not rather give up some talent, as drawing, music,
painting, than the faculty of reflection and reason I Every one is
offended if we call him stupid; not if we say that he wants such
or such a talent. If we farther examine the influence of different
faculties of animal life upon the happiness and preservation of man-
kind, we shall be convinced that se,·eral are much mom important
than others. The love of approbation is of far less consequence
than benevolence ; the Christian religion, indeed, ranks charity
above all the other virtues. It must, therefore, be granted that
the faculties of animal life are important in different degrees. A
great line of distinction between them may at once be dmwn by sep-
m·ating such as are common to animals and man, from such as are
proper to man. A double nature of man was long ago remarked,
and has been designated by different expressions; as the flesh and
the spirit; the animal and the man, or the carnal and spiritual part
of man.
Now, are the faculties common to animals and man, or those
proper to humanity, to have the superiority ? The answer is
obvious. The general law of nature is, that inferior are subordi-
nate to superior faculties. Physical are subject to chemical laws ;
gravity, for instance, is modified by chemical affinity: the particles
of a salt attract each other in opposition to their gravity, and form
crystals. Again, physical and chemical laws, though existing in
organic beings, are modified by those of organization. Plants do
not increase by juxtaposition; nor do they assimilate mere homo-
geneous substances. In the muscular and circulatory systems,
the physical laws of motion and hydraulics are preserved, but they
are influenced by the laws of life. Chemical laws remain in diges-
tion, but swayed by organic laws. · Physical, chemical, and vege-
tative laws exist in living creatures, but modified by those of phre-
nic life. Animals take food, so do plants; but animals choose it,
guided by the sense of taste. Plants propagate their species auto-
matically; animals feel a propensity to do so. The propensities, sen·
timeots, and intellectual faculties of animals, consequently modify
the properties of their organization extremely.
132 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
The same principle must be applied in regard to tbe distinguish•
ing part of human nature: all inferior laws, physical, chemical, or•
ganic, and animal, are subordinate to those of the peculiarly human
faculties. These, therefore, compQse the moral character of man.
Thus, as the faculties are not equally important, and as some must
be subordinate to others, I divide them, in relation to actions, into
three orders: one excites man and. animals to determinate actions,
as hunger, physical love, the propensity to fight, to build, to gather
provision, &c.; I style these fctculties of action; another, because
they assist and modify those of the first kind, I call auxiliary; and
anotlJer, which ought to direct, I term dil'ecting faculties.
The faculties proper to man are obviously superior to those
common to him and animals, since, by means of his peculiar nature
he is master of all that breatl1es, and, therefore, ought to be master
of his own animal nature also. I, consequently, lay down the fol-
lowing principle:-The faculties proper to man constitute his mo-
ral nature and his absolute conscience, that is, all actions conform-
able to them are absolutely good. And now liberty assumes the
character of morality, if the will produce actions flowing from mo-
tives which are proper to man. !\Ian, then, has not only the largest
share of liberty, from his superior will and great number of motives,
but he alone possesses moral liberty. The feeling of conscientious-
ness is to morality, that which will or the perceptive and reflective
faculties are to liberty. As long as actions spring from motives
common to man and animals, they are not primitively moral, though
they may be conformable to morality. Inferior motives, however,
must still be employed in guiding mankind, and must frequently
supply the place of such as are moral. We even see that purely
moral motives have but little influence in the world.
Extent of lllomlity.
In regard to morality, an important question concerns its extent.
Is man the only aim of the terrestrial creation, that is, is all the rest
made for him? An affirmative answer can only be the result of too
ON 'l'HE MORAL CONSTlTUTION OF MAN. 133
much self-esteem;-the contrary seems evident, since nature pro•
duces poisons for man as well as for other animals. Geology also
proves that many beings existed before man. It is however a nat-
ural law that superior employ inferior beings to their advantage; and
in consequence of his superiority, man, as he is their master, may
make use of all the other creatures upon earth. Still this does not
prove that evet·y thing exists merely for the sake of man. The
human kind may govern all animals, but it has also certain duties
towards them, and I cannot believe that man has any right to tor-
ment animals for his gratification or amusement.
Benevolence and reverence are essential quHlities of human na·
ture, and man's duties towards his like form the principal object
of morality. It is commonly stated that he is created to be happy.
This proposition, however, is vague, ami individual happiness is
too often confounded with the general weal : the formet· results
from the satisfaction of the faculties each person is more particularly
endowed with, but it varies, since individual gifts differ widely ;
hence it can never become the universal standard of moral actions :
actions which are evidently bad may be accompanied with pleasure.
Met·e pleasure, therefore, is not the aim of man's existence any
more than individual happiness ; these, indeed, are synonymous
expressions.
I am of opinion, that the Creator viewed general happiness as
superior to that of individuals, and that he intended to produce the
second by the first. All nature seems to prove this idea.
In considering the immense system of the celestial bodies, it is
probable tl1at the earth might rather perish than the universe be
destroyed. Geology teaches that our globe has continued to exist
while many kinds of animals have 'disappeared from its surface.
Species are preserved while individuals die. The totality of living
bodies exists, but particular parts perish. Again, nature has estab-
lished a law of violent death, and of the sacrifice of individuals for
the sake of general preservation. All animate beings exist at the
expense of each other, and all are thereby preserved.
Man makes no exception from this general arrangement, and it
134 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
is, therefore, quite certain that the happiness of all mankind is pre-
ferable to that of nations ; this to that of families, and this again to
that of individuals. Personal interests, it is allowed, must be neg-
lected sooner than those of our country, or than family affections.
But the same reasons that lead to this conclusion, prove also that
the species is more worthy of our love than our native country.
The superiority of general happiness is also confirmed by the
essential difference of the two natures of man. The greater num-
ber of animals find their enjoyments in selfishness ; some, however,
live in society, arc attached to each other, and feel a kind of love
for the country of their birth ; but man alone is susceptible of ex-
ercising good-will towards the whole of his own species, and every
othet· being of creation. I am confirmed in my opinion, that gen-
eral happiness is the aim of man's existence, since I see the truth
of what afflicts many amiable minds, that the just perishes in his
righteousness, while the unjust prospers in his wickedness. This
happens under the government of the animal nature, which feels no
pleasure in general happiness, nor pain in the commission of injus-
tice. It shows the predominance of the animal nature, but is it
not probable that the Creator intended the satisfaction of those
faculties which are proper to man as well as of those he holds in
common with the brutes ? There can be no doubt he did. I think
that both natmes are to be gratified, that no faculty is made in vain,
and that all that stamps superiority upon man is not bestowed
merely to make him unhappy. Now, as the more noble powers
are not satisfied in the actual state of things, religious people hope
that they will be ministered to in another life, and this is considered
as a conclusive argument in favor of the immortality of the soul.
As the peculiarly human naturP, however, is preferable to the
animal, it must follow that even in this life, its satisfaction is supe-
rior to that of the other. I entertain this opinion the rather be-
cause the animal part may be satisfied under the dominion of the
human, which leads to the recognition of duty universally ; while
the brute nature has no feelings of obligation, and looks for mere
selfish enjoyments. Wieland, in his Agathon, expresses this idea
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 135
nlmost in pb1·enological terms, yet it must be understood that he
considered the mind as free and in conflict with the senses. He
calls the mind the spiritual pat·t, and the senses the animal part of
man. In order to render man that which nature intended him to
be, says he, the harmony of these two natures must be preserved.
' If this harmony,' continues he, ' is possible, it can be effected
only by the subjection of the animal part to the spiritual, the intel-
ligent and the free. This subjection is the more reasonable, for
the animal part incurs no danger from the sway of the spiritual, and
has no reason to dread any denial of its legitimate enjoyments,
since the former knows too well what is necessary for the common
good of the whole man to refuse to the animal portion what is
necessary to its existence and its welfare. But the animal part
knows nothing of the wants of the spiritual, cares not about its own
restless struggles against every attempt at control, and the instant
that reason slumbers or slips its bridle, it assumes an arbitrary
supremacy of which the destruction of the whole internal economy
of our nature is the inevitable consequence.
Thus, I do not believe that in the eye of God, the unjust who
thrives is worth the just who perishes ; I rank the unjust among
animals ; like them he is pleased with what flatters himself alone ;
he is even more dangerous than they, on account of his superior
understanding.
The proposition (it is one which troubles many minds)-moral
errors are unavoidably punished in this life-finds it solution also,
in the superiority of general happiness. The strong and.able-bod-
ied man may not seem to suffer from excesses and sensuality ; but
his descendants have often to pay the penalty. The love of do-
mination is ministered to by the ignorance and servility of nations ;
these, however, must bear its blighting influence. He who hegins
by subjecting his countrymen to his will, and finishes by aiming at
the empire of the world, must injure, and make thousands and mil-
lions wretched. The few who amass riches do so at the expense
of the many who remain poor, and so on. Thus the evil which
results from any infraction of the natural laws, is not always felt by
136 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
him who is its first cause; it is, however, certainly experienced
sooner or later.
Finally, as I perceive that, in the kingdom of justiee, and of
general happiness, the individual is never forgotten, whilst individ-
uals enjoying happiness so easily forget their neighbors, and tl1e
general weal, I most anxiously wish the kingdom of individual hap-
piness at an end.
Thus, general happiness appears to me the principal aim of
phrenic life, as the preservation of the species is the chief end of
vegetative life. General happiness is the touchstone for all nat-
ural morality, for all social institutions, and for all the actions of
man. Every deed which favors the general weal is good, and the
more this is opposed the worse is the act.
Here we may ask, whether there are certain races of men in
civilized society, or certain classes1 who deserve the lot of mere
animals ? These, on account of their inferiority, are employed by
man for his pleasures and purposes ; are the highly gifted among
the human kind also permitted to use for their advantage those who
are less favored by nature ? Or, are there individuals who may
arrogate privileges, and claim immunities ?
To reply in, the affirmative would be against natural morality.
This declares God to be the impartial parent of all, and permits
man only to do good to his fellow man ; it does not exclude the
agency of self-love, but makes it, along with all other faculties
common to man and animals, subordinate to those proper to'man.
Indeed, I know of nothing more important than it is, to prove the
existence of natural morality, and to specify its laws. For, as
mankind must be governed, a true legislation is extremely desira-
ble.
Both religious and civil regimens have done immense injury to
mankind, and this in proportion as the infel'ior faculties, such as
self-lo~·e, love of approbation, courage, destructiveness, and even
attachment and circumspection, have dictated their positive laws.
The animal is the enemy of man, it justifies absolute power, the
right of the strongest, the spirit of party and of sect, national pride
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 137
and hatred, and every kind of personal design. It looks only for
convenience. Religion itself is employed as a tool in its purposes.
The misery of man will certainly endure so long as the faculties
common to him and animals determine that which is to be done or
omitted.
Attempts have been made, with more or less success, to im-
prove legislation, but all the means have been derived from inferior
faculties. Evils, therefore, may have been mitigated, but they
could not be entirely abolished. Final success depends altogether
on the sacrifice of personal interest, or of individual to general
happiness.
The universality and constancy of the natural laws deserve a
particular attention. Their basis is the same, at all times and in
all countries ; they are independent of personal and of local cir-
cumstances. Were it not presumptuous, even absurd, in natural-
ists to endeavor to create physical and chemical laws, and in
gardeners to change the laws of vegetation ? Those who breed and
rear animals must treat them according to their nature ; they will
never feed parrots with bitter almonds or parsley. The organiza-
tion of man is also allowed to be subject to natural laws, though
several are unknown or neglected in social life.·
That the five senses, in their healthy state, propagate external
impressions according to determinate laws, is farther admitted. No
one can see as great that which is small; taste as sweet thnt which
is sour ; nor see as blue that which is scarlet. ·without perfect
regularity in the functions of the·senses, it were altogether impos-
sible to acquire any positive knowledge of the physical qualities of
external objects.
Now, why should not the same determinateness pervade the
affective and intellectual faculties ? It is, indeed, commonly admit-
ted in as far as the intellectual operations are concerned. The
principles of the arts and sciences are always pointed out. Who
doubts of the mechanical laws ? They are the same now as they
were in ancient times. The mechanician never attempts to warp
or change them in constructing machines ; in inventing, he only
18
138 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
makes new applications of laws that are invariable. Mathematical
laws, also, have not changed with ages; every mathematician,
whether aware of them or not, applies them in his calculations.
A great musical genius produces harmonious tones, and a great
painter agreement of colors, according to natural principles, and
without previous study. The laws of all arts exist in nature, and
are only discovered, not created. A deep thinker needs no logical
precepts to enable him to perceive sound from false reasoning.
Thus the intellectual operations of the mind are governed by natu-
ral laws, which can neither be changed by revelation nor by human
enactments, neither by praying, by fasting, nor by offerings. They
who are born gifted with great talents discover the laws of their
faculties, make these known to the less favored in capacities, who
then Jearn and apply them in their mental operations.
In the same way, they whose peculiarly human faculties hold
such as are common to man and animals in subordination, act in
a moral way without precept, and even with pleasure; nay, if con-
strained to do evil, they would feel positive pain, precisely as does
the great musician from bad music. Moral precepts are necessary
to those only who do not possess them in their interior. Now, as
the Creator has provided for physical and moral laws, when will
man cease to invent laws, and begin to study those the C1·eator has
traced for his guidance ? And when will he be wise enough to
submit to them ?
Existence of Evil.
The natural law of the subordination of the faculties leads us im-
mediately to consider moral evil. The first step is to inquire
whether evil exists or not. Having settled this point, I shall then
examine its origin.
Two kinds of evil are commonly spoken of; the one physical,
the other moral. There is an evident opposition throughout all
nature. Earth, water, and air, present a perpetual scene of de-
struction and reproduction, of pain and pleasure. And even as
ON THE MOfiAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 139
temporal good is often distributed unequally and without personal
desert, so physical evil is frequently inflicted without any fault on
the part of the sufferer, and this both among animals and the hu-
man kind. Why should domestic animals so often be ill fed and
harshly treated in reward for their services ? Why should all suffer
by contagious diseases ? 'Vherefore must the children begotten in
debauchery, expiate the sins of their parents ? 'Vhy, when the
hail-storm ravages the wide-spread han·cst of the indol~nt and rich
man, does it not spare the little garden of the laborious poor ?
Such melancholy queries have been put at all times. The Preach-
er says, 'There is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness,
and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wicked-
ness.' * ' All things,' says he, ' come alike to all : there is one
event to the righteous and to the wicked ; to the good, and to the
clean, and to the unclean ; to him that sacrificeLiJ, and to him that
sacrificeth not : as is the good, so is the sinner ; and he that swear-
eth, as he that feareth an oath. This is an evil among all things
that are done under the sun, that there is one event unto all : yea,
also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in
their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.' t
In another passage he continues : ' I returned, and saw under the
sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,
neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understand-
ing, nor yet favor to men of skill : but time and chance happeneth
to them all.' :j: Physical evil, indeed, does not merely exist, it even
invades all according to the established la1Ys of creation.
.Moral, no less than physical evil, occurs in the world. Even
in thinking himself abased by his wickedness and imperfection,
man must acknowledge its existence. .Moses said, 'God saw that
the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every im-
agination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.' II
David thought, that ' there is none that doeth good, no not one.'§
The Psalmist said, ' the wicked man delights in blood.' Christ
* Eccles. vii. 15.
II Gen. vi. 5.
t lb. i%. 2, 3.
§ Psalm xiv. 3.
l Eccles. ix.ll, 12
140 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
taught, that 'out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders,
adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessing, blasphemies.'" St.
Paul speaks of men, 'being filled with all unrighteou'sness, fornica·
tion, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, envy, murder, de·
bate, deceit, malignity; and of whisperers, backbiters, haters of God
despiteful, proud, boastful, inventors of evil things, disobedient to
parents, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural
affection, implacable, unmerciful; who knowing the judgment of
God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not
only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.' !\lora!,
as well as physical evil, then, has always existed, and the time
when it will be rooted out seems yet to be far off.
Origin of Evil.
The or1gm of evil has been a fertile subject of discussion.
Evil seemed incompatible with a perfect Creator. The notion of
a malevolent principle, therefore, came to be entertained. This
still prevails among those who, personifying evil, speak of a devil.
To explain the existence of evil, however, is a simple and easy
task. It is only necessary to know that all natural phenomena
depend on certain conditions or circumstances; that things are in
relation to each other, and that these relations generally are gov·
erned by fixed laws. Now, as soon as the conditions are want·
ing or their laws violated, proper effects are not elicited, and evil
results. In the inanimate as well as in the animated world, the
natural laws must be rigorously followed. The chemist must obey
the laws of chemistry to produce crystals ; plants grow well if they
be cultivated according lo their habits and wants,-it matters not
whether the cultivators be Roman Catholics or Heretics, Jews or
.Mussulmans. Man enjoys good health or suffers from infirmity,
in proportion as he attends to or neglects the laws of his vegetative
functions. Neither prayers, nor offerings, nor any·other religious
ceremony whatever, suspend these natural laws ; their execution
* Matt. xv. 19.
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 141
is invariably and without distinction rewarded, and their neglect
indiscriminately and regularly punished. The infidel who lives
moderately and observes all the dietetic rules, has always better
health than the orthodox believer who neglects the natural laws
of his organization, but prays loudly for soundness of body. The
former, if he practice the laws of hereditary descent, will have
children preferable to those of the pious man who chooses his wife
for her wealth or mere exterior beauty. I suppose, that one with-
out religious faith, even an atheist, submits to the natural laws of
the vegetative functions ; that he avoids all noxious influences, is
laborious, industrious, and regular in his business, while another
is very religious in the common acceptation, sings, prays, fasts,
eats no meat on Fridays, recommends his soul to God, &c., but,
at the same time, is lazy, intemperate, disorderly in his business ;
and I ask, of these two, whose condition in life will be the most
flomishing? Thus, physical evil results from the infraction of the
physical laws, and moral evil from the infraction of the moral laws
of creation.
I pass over in silence the opinion which recognises two creative
principles--one good and another bad. Neither do I speak of ori·
ginal sin in the first man, nor of the origin of evil in admitting free·
will; for, in this latter I find no explanation of its existence. It
is true, that without liberty there can be no guilt; but its admis-
sion gives no idea of the origin of evil. For as soon as free-will
is spoken of, good and evil are supposed : or to what purpose is
free-will, were there not two different things, good and evil, be·
tween which the free agent may choose ? It is said, that man
abuses his liberty; but by what motive does he so, if there be not
something within which provokes him to act badly ? Bishop
Butler* made the same remark. His words are : 'To say t!!at
the fact that creatures, made upright, fall, is accounted for by the
nature of liberty, is to say no more than that an event's actually
happening is accounted for by a mere possibility of its happening.
But it seems distinctly conceivable from the very nature of par·
* Analogy of Religion, Part I. Ch. V.
142 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
ticular propensions.' Ltberty is neither sufficient to explain the
nature nor the origin of moral evil.
Are there any bad faculties ? Dr. Gall is disposed to admit
wicked propensities. He says, that man must submit to the laws
of creation in regard to moral as in regard to physical evil ; that
no one can say he is without temptations ; and that all thoughts
and inclinations are not innocent or virtuous. He even thinks
that moral evil enters into the plan of the Creator.
If he say, however, that excessive activity of certain faculties
produces illegal actions or moral evil, morality is not yet proved
as a natural science; it is at most conventionaL I am intimately
convinced that no faculty in itself can be bad, and that all the in-
nate powers of man have some aim, that every one is necessary;
that none leads inevitably to evil ; but that each may produce
abuses. The faculties are no mot·e bad than any other entity in
nature. I think with Philo the Jew, Eusebius,* and St. Augus-
tine, that nothing-fire, water, iron, &c., is bad in itself, or a
cause of evil; with Augustine f io particular, that evil is not a sub-
stance, and that abuses only are ills. I consider no power in it-
self as either good or bad. These appellations are applicable to
actions alone. I therefore say of every faculty, what the Apostle
Paul said to the Romans:i ' as you have yielded your members
servants to uncleanness and to iniquity ; even so now yield your
members, servants to righteousness, unto holiness.'-Christianity
in speaking of evil propensities, means irregular actions of the
feelings, but not the primitive feelings themselves. Evil results
only from infringing the natul'31 Jaws of morality, dictated by the
faculties proper to man. The faculties common to man and brutes
act in animals in the same way as in man; but they are never said
to sin or commit a crime; which by the by is a new proof that
liberty has not produced moral evil, for animals modify their con-
duct and suppress various instincts by other motives; but none of
their actions can be considered in relation to morality.-The phi-
losophers who maintain man to be born good or bad, are not ac-
• Pr~epar. Evang. Lib. vii. n. 22. I Lib. de Vera Religione, c. 20. !vi. HI.
ON rHE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 143
quamted with the fundamental powers of the mind and with their
mutual relations. This knowledge alone satisfactorily explains the
nature and origin of evil.
Practical njlection.
I firmly believe that it is under the government of the natural
laws alone that mankind will ever and can ever become one fami-
ly; these, however, are still very obscure. I have published a
catechism on them, but it will be long before they can be gener-
ally understood and applied in practical life. i\Iankind is not
prepared to submit to the precepts of natural morality. The spirit
of selfishness, ignorance and superstition-these natural enemies
of truth-are still too powerful. Yet the only remark to be made
is, that the laws of the Creator are invariable and indispensable to
the happiness of man ; that he must submit to them or suffer, and
without submission the common weal is impossible ; that all par-
tial views must disappear ; finally, that arbitrary regulations may last
years, and centuries, but must come to an end at last, while the
empire of Creation will endure as long as the human kind remains.
Comparison of natural morality with the Christian momlity.
The preceding considerations on natural religion and morality
may, I fear, offend the timorous ; if they sincerely love truth,
however, they may be easy and remain quiet. For if we admit
that the author of the universe and the God who gave us a revela-
tion are one and the same Supreme Being, we must also allow that
the revelation made in time cannot be at variance with the laws of
cr~ation, otherwise God would have be-en in contradiction with
himself. An impostor, like Mahomet, changes his decrees as con-
venience requires, or as caprice impels ; but reason will never ad-
mit contradictions in a Divine legislation. To conceive revelation
in opposition to natural laws, is either to prove it false, or adnnce
that the Creator of all things is not the God who revealed the law ;
144 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
or that Supreme intelligence may change its decrees, endow man
with natural faculties, and then command these to cease entirely
from acting, or to act in opposition to their nature. I am of their
opinion who think that the Christian morality is the same as the
morality of nature, and that its revealed law is merely a repetition
in positive terms of the natural law. They difler only in the man-
ner of being communicated, the one being the internal, the other
the external revelation of the same unchangeable Being, who is the
same at all times, infinitely wise and good. \Vith this view present,
we conceive why the master of Christianity said, 'that light is made
to give light,' and why he ·several times spoke of the things as they
were from the beginning of the creation and ought to be such. I
hope the time will come when Christianity will be purged of all
paganism and superstition. The purity and excellence of its moral
precepts, indeed, will be more justly appreciated as human nature
is better understood, and the superior feelings become more en-
ergetic. Then it will be admitted that the design of Christianity is
rational, and free from the load of superstition which had been mix-
ed with the law of the Creator.
The corner-stone of any religious system is certainly its morality,
and the ideas which it inculcates respecting purity and impurity of
character, merit or demerit, innocence or guilt. There can be no
belter standard of refined notions of an all-perfect Being, and no
worship more acceptable to the Almighty, than practices which ren-
der a man respectable and useful as a human being; than righteous-
ness, reverence, beneficence, self-command and wisdom. Chris-
tian morality, like that of nature, is reduced to a few principles
which are simple, invariable, and applicable in all situations, and
under all circumstances. It considers our duties towards God and
our duties towards our like. The former are called love of God,
the latter love of our neighbor.
The meaning of the particular precepts of Christianity still gives
nse to many discussions. Various interpretations have been dis-
seminated, and even absurdities been substituted, for the wise
regulations of the Gospel. It was, therefore, a point of some im·
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 145
parlance to prevent man from reading and reflecting on the scrip-
tures. The result, however, has been, that the Gospel legislation
has fallen into discredit; for the arbitrary interpretations of individ-
uals have been confounded with its primitive laws. Every friend
of humanity must grieve to sec absurdities put into the mouth of the
Supreme Being. Were merely rational interpretations of scripture
given, there would be less cause to complain of the general want
of religious and moral feelings. The lmman understanding is too
much enlightened now to be satisfied with superstitious doctrines,
which are useless both to God and to man. Rational and salutary
precepts cannot and will not be rejected. Let us proceed then, and
consider some of the leading points of Christian morality, which
surrasses, in perfection, all other moral codes of civil legislation.
Jesus reduced his moral doctrine to two grand heads: the love
of God, and the love of our neighbor. 'On these two command-
ments,' says he,* 'hang all the law and the prophets.' It is there-
fore most desirable to understand their meaning, but I apprehend
it is little the case.
The first admits the existence of a God, the Creator of all. Be-
sides, it commands respect towards him, and obedience to his will.
' Thy kingdom come,' says Christ,t ' thy will be done on earth as
it is in heaven.' ' This is the love of God,' says St. John, :j: 'that
we keep his commandments.'
The human understanding cannot hut look for the workman, or
cause of all that exists. By his powers of reasoning, man arrives
at a first cause, which, being personified, is styled God. The
Gospel inculcates the same idea. St. Paul says: § ' Every house
is builded by some man; but he that bnilt all things is God.'
·Reason farther judges of the qualities of God according to his
works. 1 The invisible things of God,' says St. Paul also,[[ 'from
the creation of the world are clearly seen ; being understood by the
things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead.' The
attributes which man ascribes to the supreme Ruler are of the
* Matt. xxii. 40.
§ Heb. iii. 4.
19
I Matt. vi. 10.
I! Rom. i.20.
tlst John, v. 3.
146 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MINJJ.
greatest importance, since man feels disposed to imitate them.
Farther, the will of the father depends on his nature. It is therefore
not indifferent to demonise, an!hropomorphise or divinise the god-
head; and to understand the nature and extent of his will.
It i~ exceedingly important to be convinced that the natural laws
are the will of God. Jesus makes a distinction between things as
they were from the beginning of the creation, and the legislation of
1\loses. * He speaks of things which have been kept secret from
the foundation of the world, t and of things which his apostles
could not bear.:j: The Creator, or God, nnd Revealer, must be
the same, and cannot be in contradiction with each other. The
first great commandment of Christ, is not, I think, sufficiently
understood; it has, indeed, been abused in the most detesta-
ble manner. Arbitrary, contradictory, and absurd interpretations
were imposed in the name of God; and dissension was, therefore,
unavoidable. Those who governed found it convenient to gratify
their pride and selfishness, by interdicting reflection, and by com-
manding blind obedience and prostration of the understanding.
Such a proceeding is common to priestcraft of all ages.
This was and is an excellent means of securing themselves in
personal enjoyments, of concealing selfish intentions, and of enfor-
cing conviction of their infallibility; but it does not prove that the
Gospel prohibits us fl'Dm reasoning, from examining; from believ-
ing that which is true, or rejecting that which is palpably false and
absurd. In my opinion, those who think force lawful for the sup-
port of any opinion, civil or religious, that cannot be supported by
reason, and has no relation to the common welfare, may think every
untruth lawful, especially when the temporal interest of tl1e deceiv-
ers is joined with the eternal interest of the deceived. Jesus said,
many times,' Let them hear, who have ears to hear.' 'Are ye
also,' said he to his disciples,§ 'yet without understanding?' 'I
speak as to wise men,' says St. Paul to the Corinthians; II 'judge
ye what I say.' ' Prove all things,' says the same apostle to the
* Matt. xix. 8.
§ Matt. xv. ~6.
t Matt. xiii. 35.
lllst Cor. x. 15.
t John xvi. 12.
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 147
Thessalonians," ' and hold fast that which is good.' ' Beloved,'
says St. John, ' believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether
they are of God.' t
Thus, I believe that all natural laws of the vegetative functions,
of intelligence, and of morality, are part of the will of God. If we
submit to them, their in!luence will be more marked and more sal-
utm-y than any adherence to arbitrary regulations. Man ought to
know that be can create nothing, but that be has understanding to
recognise whatever is, and the conditions under which it is. He
may only imitate the proceeding of nature, that is, obey the will of
the Creator, to elicit what is for his good. ' The Son of God can
do nothing, if he ha1·e not seen it done by the Father,' said Jesus.
The first commandment of Christianity embraces all kinds of
truth, and ought never to be lost sight of; it explains every thing
as happening by the will of God. Fire burns, water extinguishes
fire ; hemlock kills man, and nourishes the goat ; fertile countt·ies,
when well cultivated, yield abundant harvests; industrious and or-
derly individuals and nations prosper; intemperate persons ruin
their health; ignorance commits errors, intelligence avoids them;
the animal part of man looks for selfish and lowly gratifications ; the
peculiarly human nature finds satisfaction amid the joys of general
happiness; and all this occurs by the will of God. Let us then
admit it as the will of God also, that the faculties proper to man are
to be the sole guides of human actions.
In examining natural morality, we have seen that we can do
nothing to advantage the Supreme Being; that our relations with
him consist in respect for, and submission to, his will. Hence,
that true religion is summed up in the fulfilment of our duties to
.ourselves, to our like, and to the other beings that taste along with
us the sweets of existence, and in relating all our duties to the will
· of the Creator.
The worship prescribed by Christianity is also reasonable and
spiritual; it consists not in what we are to eat or drink, nor in any dif-
ference to be made between the days lent us to enjoy. The Sab-
* lst Thess. v. 21. t lst John, iv. I.
l4S PHILOSOPHY OF THE !lUND.
bath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.* 'The hour
comes, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the
Father in spirit and in truth.'t ' God that made the world and all
things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwells
not in temples made with bands, neither is he worshipped with
men's hands, as though he needed any thing; he who gives to all
life, and breath, and all things. 't 'When ye pray, usc not vain
repetitions as the heathen do ; for they think that they shall be
l1eard for their much speaking.'§ Finally, prayers are heard only,
if they be conformable to the will of God, and supported by our
submission to the laws of the Creator. Under the guidance and
fulfilment of the natural laws alone, mankind can become happy;
and in neglecting them, all prayers will be in vain.
Thus, the first great commandment of Christianity is perfectly
agreeable to the experience of all times, and is the basis of all
positive regulations ; it embraces all natural laws and even includes
the second commandment of Christianity. This, however, on
account of its importance, has been announced separately ; it is :
Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
This precept is very simple; but, like the first, has not escaped
manifold abuses. lt has always been, and is still eluded by va-
rious interpretations. A great number flatter themselves that they
are Christians, without ever expending a thought on the happiness
of their neighbors ; some are not ashamed to bear the name of
Christians though they think all the inhabitants of a country and
the country itself made for them. The first absolute king who
pretended to be a Christian was a curse to Christianity. On the
other hand, in combining the second precept with several pas-
sages of the Gospel, some have discussed the question whether
Christianity abolishes private property and establishes community
of goods or not ? The early Christians made a trial of a true
commonwealth ; several religious orders or monasteries did the
same ; but experience has shown that mankind is not yet in a con-
dition to live in such a state of purity. Nevertheless, it is cer-
• Mark ii. 27. t John iv. 24,52. ; Acts xvii. 24, 25. § M•tt. vi. 7.
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 149
tain, that if the second commandment were fulfilled, there would
be no peculiar property.
To this may be started the objection of there being a fundamen-
tal feeling in which inheres the desire to acquire, a feeling very
active in animals and in man. Now, Christianity opposes no nat-
ural disposition; on the contrary, it commands acknowledgment
of the natural order, and, indeed, is declared to be destined tore-
establish things as they were from the beginning of the creation.
The propensity to acquire certainly exists in man as well as in ani-
mals; man is also influenced b;: attachment to his family and coun-
try, and both of these feelings are powerful motives to action; yet
they also give rise to many disorders, and occasion a great deal of
mischief. They are not interdicted by the second precept of Chris-
tianity, hut they are placed under the dominion of a superior sen-
timent, which desires general happiness, and places the well-being
of others on a level with our own, our family's, and our country's.
Christianity consequently commands, ' Therefore all things
whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to
them; for this is the law and the prophets.'* As well as nature,
Christianity proclaims original differences among men. It allows
that some are more, others less, talented; but it makes each an-
swerable only for the gifts he has received; commanding that those
who have received much, give much; that is, contribute largely
to the general happiness. Thus, true Christians form a separate
society; they receive among them none who are profligate, selfish,
ambitious, or who are governed by inferior faculties; but only
those who find pleasure in the satisfaction of their peculiarly hu-
man powers. They scout idleness with its attendant vices from
among them. They have many members in one body, and all
members have not the same office ;t there are diversities of gifts,
but the same spirit; and the manifestation of the spirit is given to
every one to profit withal.:j: In short, they consider as brothers and
sisters those only who do the will of God; who love each other as
themselves.
• Matt. vii. 12. t Rom. xii. 4. t 1 Cor. xii. 7.
150 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
The accomplishment of this precept is extremely difficult, but
it is essential to see that it is indispensable to the constitution of
a Christian. To maintain that it is not, is to be deceived, or to
be a hypocrite. Jesus constantly admonished his disciples to love
one another." 'By this shall all men know that ye are my disci·
pies, if ye have love one for another.'t
Many flatter themselves with being Christians, when they say
that they believe in the divinity of Jesus, in his mission and
miraculous actions; and all the while neglect the moral principles
he inculcated. Jesus, however, has loudly declared, tb~t practice
of his commandments is indispensable, in order to enter into the
kingdom of God. St. Paul says, j: ' The kingdom of God is
not in word, but in power.' And St. J amP.s<§. is very clear in
writing: 'What does it profit my brethren, though a man say he
hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him:-as the body
without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.'
It is, indeed, scarcely possible to find a true Cht·istian; but the
unbeliever who deems Christian morality merely fanciful, is more
excusable than those who call themselves its disciples, but suit
Christianity to their own tastes. Such conduct has done inca!·
culable injury to mankind, and by spreading abroad false concep·
tions of its nature, has greatly lowered the Christian system of
morality in general estimation.
The second precept of Christianity is, therefore, also conform•
able to natural morality, ot· to the faculties proper to man. For
these look for general happiness, and are satisfied with neighborly
love, without any regard to personal distinctions.
The third precept of Christian morality concerns its propaga·
tion. Jesus commands his disciples to preach his doctrine as
preferable to all other systems of morality ; to be indulgent and
forbearing ; to give freely, as they have freely received ; II and to
pardon faults and errors, provided they be conec:ted. He who
does not act according to the law is to be excluded from their
*John xv.12.
§ ii. 14. 26.
t John l::iii. 35.
II Matt. x. s.
j 1 Cor. iv. 20.
ON THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN 151
society ; excommunication, therefore, is the severest punishment it
admits.
How lamentable it is that these sublime principles of morality
have been so dreadfully disfigured, as now not to be recognisa-
ble in social intercourse! Under·standing has, fmm time to time,
endeavored to oppose arbiu·ary interpretations, and hence divi·
sions arose. Unfortunately, and in direct contradiction to the
mild spirit of Christianity, unbelievers in its doctrines have been
per·secuted. This was the most certain means of confirming dis-
sensions, and is the more to be regretted, as these have always
been based upon secondary things, which in themselves never bad
and never wili have any influence on mankind. By degrees the
essential was distinguished from the indifferent portion, and in
several countr·ies men are now permitted to do whate\'er they
think agreeable to God, provided it do not trouble the order of
society. Civil governments are at present superior to the priest-
hood in wisdom. They allow people to believe that God is fond
of perfumes, of music, and of various ceremonies, and they tole-
rate those who show their lo\'e of God by fulfilling their social
duties, by esteeming every day alike, and saying with St. Paul, *
' the kingdom of God is not meat and drink.' Let us hope that
religious toleration will become general, and that the aim may be
no longer confounded with the means: the aim must be the same
every where and at all times ; the means must vary according to
the natural dispositions of individuals, to the education they have
received, and to the circumstances in which they are placed, but
still be dictated by the faculties proper to man. Let us hope that
the ma_xim, that no man ought to suffer in his person, property or
reputation for his opinion in matters of mere supernatural doctr·ines,
will be established in every enlightened nation.
It is indispensable to obey the will of God, but it is by no
means likely that he is pleased with the errors of his creatures, or
that he leads them into temptation by trilling and insignificant
commandments. It is evident that they are not arrived at refined
*Rom. ziv. 17.
152 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
notions of a Supreme Intelligence, who lay the gteatest possible
stress upon the necessity of a belief in Mahomet's pretended mis-
sion; who consider all other virtues as useless if this single point
of the prophet's divine appointment he not instantly present to
the mind of the aspirant to eternal life. This doctrine, however,
prevails throughout the Coran. Farther, Mahomet establishes a
scale of meritorious actions in which idle, ridiculous, useless and
sometimes misehievous observances occupy the chief place, while
many useful and virtuous actions are passed over as unimportant.
-May a similar reproach not be made to various creeds among
Christians?
Is it not rather probable that God has given to man, and identi-
fied with his being, such laws as are necessary to his happiness?
Surely it is. They, therefore, who call themselves the ministers
of God, ought to make it a principal business to study his will, es-
pecially the laws of nature, and to consider it an imperious duty
to teach these, and by submission to them, to give an example of
belief in their truth and excellence. ,..
On the other hand, those who understand the natural morality
of man, will approve of several propositions of Christianity, which
are sometimes declared to be unnatural and absurd. These they
will consider as inherent in man, noble in their application, bene-
ficial in their effects, and conformable to the law of nature. They
will allow that all the faculties common to man and animals are to
be subjected to those proper to man. There are three kinds of
positive legislation which I shall call to mind in the order of their
imperfection or excellence. In the first, there are only absolute
masters, who arbitrarily determine what is to be done or omitted,
whose pleasure, in fine, is the only reasou of their regulations.
This administration is the morality of the strongest; it prevails
among barbarous nations, and may, in the 19th century, come to an
end among the civilized nations of Europe. The second, which
prevails among civilized nations, rejects the right of the strongest,
and all sorts of privileges. The animal faculties, however, are
permitted full scope for their activity, but without having power
ON TilE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 153
to constrain other persons to minister to their desires. This
morality abolishes slavery, the rights of feudality, respects prop-
erty, and allows every one to exert his faculties for his own advan-
tage, under the sole restriction, not to take aught that belongs to
others. It commands us not to do to others what we would not
that they do to us. Thus, the inferior animal faculties still dictate
the law, though they are limited by those which are proper to man.
l\Iany are susceptible of living under the reign of this degree of
moral perfection, civil and religi~us liberty. Their selfishness
opposes the grant of monopoly and privileges to others, and their '
moral feelings reject them as unjust. The desire to acquire, and
attachment, that is, commerce and exclusionary patriotism, here
exert a very great influence. Nations, therefore, thus far advanc-
ed, are united and powerful, and defend their situation vigorously.
They use every effort to advantage their community; but, besides,
every one lives for himself, brings up his children for his private
ends, and uses all his energies to increase his wealth.
The third, and most perfect legislation, results from the supre-
macy of the peculiarly human nature. The faculties proper to
man guide the aim of every action ; all are therefore directed to-
wards the universal good. The animal natur.e becomes a mere
auxiliary to this end. Commercial liberty is introduced, national
pride and prejudices cease, and nations are allied. Natural mo-
rality even here differs in nothing from that of Christianity. Uni-
versal charity and love of truth prevail. He who does the will of
the Creator, prospers. There is no distinction of person. Eve-
ry one does to others what he wishes to be done by them. In
th!s way we understand Jesus when he desires his disciples to
abandon their wives and children ' rather than the doctrine he
teaches ; he only places man above animals. He does not com-
mand abandonment of wives and children, if they love each other
as themselves, but of those only who do not the will of God.
Animals love their offspring, hut parental love is certainly inferior
to the love of mankind. Jesus therefore acknowledges as moth-
er, brother, or sister, those only who love their neighbors as
20
154 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
themselves." He wished man to be and to act according to the
faculties proper to human nature. If this were so, all would work
with pleasure for the common happiness ; those who engaged with
great talents, would require the same recompense as those who
were industrious with slender endowments ; private property
woulrl be at an end, and general peace would reign on earth.
Jesus felt that his doctrine was too difficult for man as he is, but
he supported his superiority by its salutary effects and by experience,
which shows that it is perfect. Nations may prepare themselves
for such a kingdom of love ; but Jesus himself did not rely on this
motive alone ; he attended also to the motives of reward and pun-
ishment. Moreover he was prepared for the disputes his teaching
occasioned. ·whoever proposes a new doctrine brings forth an
object of di!Terence. Now the moral principles of Jesus being es-
pecially opposed to riches and worldly distinctions, to that, there-
fore, which man desires most' eagerly, necessarily excited adversa-
ries and caused persecutions. He came not on purpose to excite
dissensions between brothers, relations, or man and man ; but he
knew that dissensions were unavoidable in the natural order of
things. Now let every one judge for himself, whether it were
better to live quietly in error and in injustice, than to suffer and
struggle for truth and general happiness.
Thus, my conviction is, that the moral precepts of Christianity
are those of the Creator. I cannot, however, believe that such a
pure system of morality will be easily, or soon adopted. But this
can take nothing away from its perfection. It will ever remain the
object all regulations ought to have in view, for its reception is the
indispensable condition to universal peace. In my work on Edu-
cation, I speak of what will avail in procuring the conditions under
which man can receive this moral doctrine. Meanwhile, it is
certain that they only usurp the name of Christians, who by their
enactments prove that their sole aim is individual happiness ; or,
who strive after riches and worldly distinctions, and other advance-
ment of their merely private estates ; or, who live at the expense
• :Mark iii. 35.
ON THE MORAL CO:i'STITUTION OF MAN. 155
of others ; or, finally, who are apt enough to laud, but ever ready
to act in contradiction to the precepts of Christic
mity. It is,
indeed, blasphemous to bear the title of Christian with.>ut acting up
to the sacred duties it requires. Let us, therefore, in acknowledg-
ing the purity of Christian morality, put it in practice, before we
dare to arrogate the noble name of Christians.
Natural goodness of man.
Ther~ is, undoubtedly, a great deal of moral evil in the world.
1\Ian, it is also certain, is commonly inclined to evil, that is, to fol-
low the activity of the animal faculties, which are, for the most
part, very energetic, and submit with difficulty to the guidance of
the powers proper to man. l am, nevertheless, astonished to ob-
serve so much goodness in the world. Its abundance evidently
proves that man is naturally good, and by no means in consequence
of his social institutions ; these, indeed, are for the most part, cal-
culated to pervert him. The poor are surrounded with temptation
and exposed to corruption on all hands, and the lives led by the
rich, especially their idleness and luxury, invite them to immoral-
ity. All ranks have their superstitions, and all believe in error, as
well as in truth ; all pay for temporal and also for eternal happiness,
and all subscribe to the first dogma proclaimed necessary to secure
the good things here, or to purchase the joys of immortality here-
after,-an entire abnegation of reason.
A true picture of society would, indeed, be frightful. Happily,
man has received from the Creator so large an infusion of goodness,
that it is not to be annihilated. It is lamentable, then, that cer-
tain persons attach themselves more to the letter than to the spirit
of some symbolic propositions of the gospel, and that mystical,
contradictory, and noxious interpretations are rather believed in,
than simple, reasonable, and salutary views.
There are some naturally good, some who instinctively, so to
say, do the things which Christian morality commands. But, have
we not all heard religious people say, that this natural disposition
156 l'HlLOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
to do well profits those who exert it in nowise ? Some may wish
to excuse their sins in degrading the nature of man, not aware that
in degrading man they degrade his l\1aker, since they tell us at the
same time that man is made according to the image ·of God. Let
us examine into the origin of faith and of charity, discuss their
comparative excellence, and determine the merit which belongs to
natural benevolence.
In regard to the origin of religious belief and charity, I refer to
the first volume of this work. I shall only repeat that they spring
not fmm the same fundamental faculty, that they may exist sepa-
rately or conjoined, and that they may be active in \'ery different
degt·ees. These propositions are as impmtant as those according
to which charity and the disposition to faith are inherent in the
nature of man. \Ye may, therefore, proceed to ask which of the
two is the most important ?
Pious people commonly decide on this question according to
their individual feelings. But this manner of judging frequently
leads into error, and is apt to deceive. Let us, therefore, make
abstraction of ourselves, and consider the subject generally.
\Ye are very ready to believe that which we like ; this, how-
ever, is not always truth. Religious systems, and the various sects
of each are all founded on belief. Jews, Roman Catholics, Luther-
ans, Calvinists, Inquisitors, Quakers, &c., all fancy they possess the
true interpretation of the revealed will of God. Hence, simple be-
lief does not indicate abstract truth. Religious belief is the result
of feelings, and all feelings without exception, are blind ; religious
belief consequently may be deceived ; and I think it causes error
whenever the faculty on which it depends ct'aSes to act in harmony
with the other powers proper to man. It bas, unquestionably,
done a great deal of harm in the world. Some standard, by which
its manifestations may be regulated, is therefore extremely desirable.
'\'Yhat shall we say of those who maintain that Christianity does
not require good works? Simply, that they wish to make their task
very easy ; not reflecting on the very nature of a covenant, which
cannot be made without conditions ; and uot !mowing the gospel
0~ THE MORAL CONSTITUTION OF MAN. 157
of Jesus Christ, who desired that his disciples might be known by
their works, and the excellence of his doctrine by its effects. Such
a basis alone is unobjectionable, since it includes its validity in itself,
and soon changes faith into conviction. Now as pure charity is the
aim of the doctrine, and was the practice of the life of Jesus, char-
ity is evidently the chief of his precepts.
Farther, the tendency of charity is solely to do good; but
religious belief may do evil too ; it easily finds an excuse for self-
love, pe•·sonal views, and abuses of many complexions. Priestcraft
when asked what is right, commonly answers, expediency or our
decision. History proves this accusation of religious governors.
We may add, with the Apostles St. James and St. Paul, that faith
without w01·ks is dead. Every hypocrite may say, I believe. Faith
should be considered only as an additional motive to exercise char-
ity ; and in its inferiority it alone should never be the basis of any
religious doctrine. Priestcraft of all denominations, contending for
their supremacy, wish to lead the people blindfolded.
'Beware of false prophets,' says Christ," 'which come to yon
in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye
will know them by their fruits.'
Finally, even those who have no religious faith, or belief, still
admit charity and its good effects. Thus, I do not hesitate to
place, with St. Paul,t charity above faith.
In regard to the met·it of natural benevolence, I think, that the
moral laws are as positive and inherent in our nature as are those
of vision, and of the harmony of colors and tones ; I also conceive
that Christ has commanded certain works because they are good in
themselves and according to the will of the Creator, but not that
these works are good by their being commanded ; and, farther, that
the truth of religious interpretations is proclatmed by their compat-
ibility with general happiness. If man can do nothing of himself,
that is, by the powers which he has received from his Creator,
what can be the benefit of the priesthood ? How could Jesus Christ
speak of gifts or talents ? How can man be made answerable ?
"~~- Matl. vii. 15. t 1 Cor. s:iii.
158 PHILOSOPHY m' THE MIND.
Those who say that natural human benevolence is worthless, might
also say that the goodness of God is without value.
Persons, it is true, who are naturally good, deserve less credit
for their beneficent actions than those who do good principally be·
cause it is commanded. The former are charitable because they
find pleasure in charity, while the others of charity make an act of
virtue. In reference to energy and effect, however, natural benev-
olence is superior to that which results from faith. The faculties
which act from internal vigor are rewarded by their indulgence ;
they persevere with pleasure and constantly tend to action, while
those which must be excited by other motives become inactive as
soon as these cease to operate. The natmally good do more act9
of beneficence without faith than those who, little endowed with
primitive charity, take mere faith as their guide and rule of conduct.
Those, however, who unite natural charity and faith are the most
assiduous in doing good ; but, to reject naturnl benevolence is equiv-
alent to saying that pure and natural gold is not worth such as is
extracted from very heterogeneous minerals, and that a swift and
willing horse is inferior to one which must be spurred to go quickly.
I finish this section by asking, what individual can determine
moral evil and moral good, that is, dictate the moral laws ? I think
that it is with moral as with all other principles; a blind man can·
not establish the principles of coloring, nor one born deaf those
of music ; the great painter gives the rules of his art, and the great
genius for music indicates the laws of harmony. In the same way,
he who possesses the faculties proper to man in the highest perfec-
tion, and in whose actions they predominate, he who can challenge
the world to convict him of sin, has a right to determine moral
principles, and to fix rules of moral conduct. Those, therefore,
who would make exception and say, Follow my words and not my
deeds, have no title to give rules of action to the community, or to.
superintend their practice. How noble was the saying of Christ
in reference to this point,* 'If I do not the works of my Father,
believe me not.'
" John1 x. 37.
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 159
SECTION VI.
Practical Considerations.
IN every science the theoretical must be distinguished from the
practical part. The former considers principles, the latter applies
them. Both, however, must be in harmony with each other.
Saying that experience contradicts a theory, only means that the
theory was inexact, and not founded on sufficient experience. But
it does not indicate that no theory or principle should be establish-
ed. Farther, I think with Socrates, that knowing and acting ought
to be inseparable, and that useful knowledge is alone worth attend-
ing to; no philosophy, therefore, which cannot be applied in
social life deserves to have a student. The knowledge of the hu-
man mind is interesting to physicians in reference to insanity, and
to teachers and legislators in determining the means of perfecting
mankind. I have treated these subjects in separate volumes ; I
shall here add some considerations which concern us in our social
intercourse, and which may contribute to further general happiness.
This I shall do in four chapters. The first will treat of the modi-
fications of the affective and intellectual functions in individuals ;
the second, of the difficulty of judging the actions of others ; the
third, of sympathy and antipathy ; and the fourth, of the happiness
of man.
CHAPTER I.
On the Modifications of the .ll.ffective and Intellectual
Functions.
IN philosophy it is commonly admitted, that the world is dif-
ferent to every species of animals, and even to every individual of
the same species. This is easily understood, when we consider
160 PHILOSOPHY OF THE 1\i!ND.
that all the beings of nature are in relation one to another, and that
these, endowed with consciousness, recognise this ; in other tenns,
perceive various impressions made on them by other beings. Now,
it is evident that each must perceive impressions in proportion to
the number and energy of its sentient faculties. Hence it results
that the world differs to diflerent species of animals ; that it is
essentially the same, but modified to indi,·iduals of the same kinds ;
and that man, who unites all the faculties distributed among the
other living tribes, and possesses some peculiarly and alone, has,
so to speak, the most extended world, though this be still modified
to individuals, as it is among animals of the same species.
l shall now investigate the modifications of the faculties more in
detail. First then, the manifestations of every faculty are greatly
modified in different kinds of beings. Thi's appears from the func-
tions of those faculties, both of vegetative and animal life, which
are common to man and animals. The liver secretes bile, the
kidneys secrete urine, the salivary glands saliva, &c ; yet these
secretions vary in different kinds of animals ; and are even modified
in individuals of the same species. The power of motion is modi-
fied in different kinds of animals, and the consistence, texture, and
taste of its organs, the muscles, also vary. The external senses
offer modifications according to species and individuals. Now,
are the faculties attached to the brain also modified in different
animals ?
If we examine their applications, there can remain no doubt of
it. The function of the cerebellum must be modified in every
species, because the individuals of each prefer others of their own
kind. Sometimes also it is quite inordinate. Modifications of
philoprogenitiveness are not less certain. Animals love the young
of their own more than those of other kinds. Inhabiti,,eness must
be modified in animals which live in the water, on dry land, in the
air, and at greater or less elevations. Adhesiveness presents many
modifications in solitary or>d in social animals. Destructiveness
and constructiveness are much modified ; all animals do not kill in
one way, and the nests of all birds are not built in the same man-
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 16l
ner. The song of birds, and the instinct to migrate, are modified
universally. Similar obscn·attons might readily be made in regard
to the whole of the propensities, semiments, and intellectual facul-
ties. Thus it is certain that all are modified both in species and
in individuals. Nay, it seems to me that there are idiosyncrasies
of all the mental fnnctions, as well as of digestion and the external
senses. Certain stomachs do not digest some particular substances;
some individuals cannot bear certain odors, savors, colors, and
sounds ; and some cannot endure certain modes of feeling or think-
ing, certain successions of tones, of ideas, and so on. The same
tlting is appt·oved or disapproved of by different people according to
the manner in which it is proposed.
Another cause of the modified manifestations of the faculties is
their mutual influence. I only consider the human kind at present.
It is indubitable that if two or more persons do the same thing, it
will be done in a modified way by every one. Inasmuch as the
faculties are essentially the same, the same actions are observed in
all mankind : nay, in as far as nations hm•e similar predominating
faculties, t11ere prevails a certain analogy in their actions and man-
ners, because these are effects of the special faculties and their
combinations ; it is only their modifications and different combina-
tions that produce varieties in action. Every faculty may act
combined with one, or two, or more. The number of binary,
ternary, and more multiplied combinations is, therefore, immense,
especially if it be ;·emembered that each may be modified in itself,
and may be mot·e or less energetic. As this subject, however, is
of the highest importance in anthropology, and indispensable to the
elucidation of my ideas, I shall treat it somewhat in detail, and
choose examples easily understood,'and interesting to every one.
Physical love alone, combined with adhesiveness, philopro·
genitiveness, benevolence and veneration, or with tliC propensities
to fight and to destroy, acts very differently, Two affectionate
mothers, of whondhe one has philoprogenitiveness combined with
much self-esteem, much firmness, a gt·eat propensity to fight, atid
litde benevolence ; and the second, philoprogenitiveness combined
21
162 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
with adhesiveness, benevolence, veneration, and very little self·
esteem and propensity to fight, will love their children in very dif-
ferent manners. Determinate or individual justice varies extremely.
Justice gives laws universally, but these are modified according to
the particular and combined faculties of legislators. What a differ-
ence in the characters of Lycurgus and Solon ; but what a differ-
ence in their precepts also !
Man universally believes in one or several Gods ; but what a
difference between the Gods of different nations, and even of dif-
ferent men ! The Gods seem to be every where represented with
faculties conformable to those of the nations by whom they are
adored, or of the religious legislators who have commanded in their
name. The sages of the Orient thought God the centre of light
and the source of all wisdom : but the Scythes took him for a
valiant hero, constantly armed and occupied with battles. The
ancient Egyptians supposed their Supreme Divinity to have little
eyes, brown skin and dark hair, whilst the natives in the North
fancied him to be of exceedingly white complexion with blue eyes
and fair long hair. The Caffres imagined him to be black with
a broad flat forehead. The God of the Jews, particularly of
Joshua, and the Deity of the true Christian, are extremely modified.
If different individuals, e\•en of the same religion, be asked their
opinion about God, we observe great diversities. St. Peter and
St. John speak, the former with fear, the latter with meekness and
love, of the same Christian Deity. The holy spirit did not so
guide the Apostles as to suspend the peculiarities of their minds.
If we examine the opinions of the reformers, Luther, Calvin,
Zwingle, and others, do we not always observe the faculties of the
individuals ? Who, for instance, finds not in the principles of
Melancthon, the mildness and moderation of his character? A per-
son endowed with veneration, combined with charity, attachment,
and understanding, without pride, destructiveness, and amativeness,
will establish a system of religious observance quite different from
his who is endowed with veneration combined with covetiveness,
pride, amativeness, and destructiveness, without charity and under
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 163
standing. Every one who dares to think for himself, interprets the
Bible according to his own feelings. The ambitious contrives to
find in it doctrines which favor his love of dominion ; the timid
discovers a gloomy system ; and the mystical and fanatical finds a
visionary theology.
The Evil Spirit or Devil, too, was represented with forms quite
opposite to those of God. The Romans, Celtic nations and Ger-
mans saw him black, whilst the ancient Egyptians painted their
Typhon with a red beard and similar hair, almost as the Germans
formed their good principle.
Music is different in every nation. 'Ve easily distinguish that
of the Italians, Germans, French, Scots, &c. Even the music
of each composer offers something particular, and connoisseurs
distinguish that of Gluck, 1\lozart, Haydn, and others. It is the
same with painting. All painters are colorists, but there is a dif-
ference in their modes of coloring ; and every one as regularly
prefers certain colors as subjects. Hence the difference in the
pictures of Titian, Rembrandt, Paul Veronese, Albano, and others.
The canvass of Titian shows reflection and combination ; that of
Paul Veronese his fondness for architecture ; Albano again betrays
his amorous inclination ; and so of the rest. . The same object,
represented by various masters of painting, will always show the
peculiarities of every artist's mind. How different, for instance,
the Virgins of Raphael, Correggio, Guido, Titian, Murillo, Carlo
Dolce, Caravaggio, Rubens, &c.
The languages of different nations present fine examples of
modifications produced by the mutual influence of the faculties. I
even admit as a principle, that the spirit of its language proclaims
the predominating faculties of a nation. I have spoken of a faculty
which learns and knows the signs invented by the superior intellec-
tual faculties, to express the feelings and ideas. It is evident,
therefore, that a nation with many feelings or ideas must have many
signs, and that the number of any one kind of these indicates the
energy of the faculty they represent. Thus, the Greek and French
languages have a greater number of tenses than the German and
164 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
English. The French, on the contrary, is poor in expressions of
reflection and of sentiment; moreover, it has few that are figura•
tive ; while the German is rich in all of these, and has also many
more signs of disjunction. Frenchmen have the organs of individ·
uality and eventuality very much developed, and arc therefore fond
of facts ; but tbci"r faculties of comparison and causality are com-
monly smaller. In consequence of this, the French Institute does
not admit analogies as proofs; these consist according to it only
in facts. The Germans, on the other band, are fond of analogies,
perhaps too much so, for they compare and wish to explain every
thing. French expressions are individual, without 3ny compari·
son; therefore, similar sounds denote many diffm·ent objects.
From this it appears that the discriminating faculties are not very
active in Frenchmen. The same deficiency is evident in the very
different names they give to very similar objects. The German
and English tongues are more systematic than the French. The
common language of Germany is even conformable to the system
of Linnreus. ·whilst the French say, bottv1·euil, charclonneret,
•pincon, &c, the Germans and English preserve the generic name
fink, or finch, and join to it a sign of distinction. In the same
way, while the French say, rasoir, cottteau, canif, serpette, &c;
in German and English the generic name messer or knife is retain·
ed, and a sign of particular destination affixed, as Jecler-rnesser, or
pen-knife; tafel-rnesser, or tuble-knije ; &c. For this reason
also, the number of roots of the French language is much more
considerable, though that of its words be much smaller than those
of the Gorman. Another proof that the French language is very
unsystematic, lies in the fact of its very often having a substantive
without its derivati1·c adjective, or the contrary, to designate the
same idea. These illustrations show the evident influence of the
faculties generally, in establishing languages. Thus the number
~nd nature of signs is in relation to the special powers of the mind
which invent them. The faculties of individuality and eventuality
being the first active in children, we may understand why nouns
and verbs are soonest employed, and constitute almost the whole
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 165
artificial language of infancy ; and why all words may be reduced
etymologically to these signs. By degrees, as other faculties
become active, other significations of signs are discovered, even
though their roots remain the same.
The construction of languages proves also the modified manners
of thinking of different nations. The French like facts, and direct
their attention to them, without first considering causes. It is
natural, indeed, to begin with the subject, then to join the action
of the subject, and after this to express other circumstances. This
the French do regularly. If cause and effect be considered, they
always begin with the effect, and relate the cause afterwards. The
Germans proceed in a very different manner, and their tongue in
this respect requires much more attention than the French. It
also ordinarily begins \Vith the subject; then follow expressions of
the relation between subject and object, both of which are mention-
ed; and lastly, the aciion of the subject upon the object is consid-
ered. If an effect and its cause, again, are spoken of, the cause is
commonly denoted first and the effect after it. Certain languages
are known to admit of a great number of inversions, others of very
few. The former appear to me the more logical; for it seems
natural that attention should be given first to the most important
object. The French language begins almost always with the
fact: hence French understandings consider the fact as the most
important.
From these observations upon language, we may conceive that
the spirit of no one language can become general. I am of opinion
that the spirit of the French will never please Germans ; and that
Frenchmen, on the other hand, will always dislike that of the Ger-
man; because the manner of thinking, and the enchainment of
ideas, are quite dissimilar in the two nntions.
I am farther convinced that different philosophical systems have
resulted from various combinations of faculties in their authors. He
·who has much of the faculty of eventuality will never neglect facts.
He who possesses less of it, and a great deal of the faculties of
comparison and causality, will begin to philosophize with causes,
166 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
and construct the world, instead of observing its existence. He,
on the contrary, in whom the faculty of causality is less active,
will reject this mode of consideration, and may think it unphiloso-
phical to admit a primitive cause. Another who has individuality
vety small may doubt of external existence. The philosopher in
whom the superior sentiments are very energetic, directs his mind
principally to moral principles, and then we have various systems
of virtue and morality, according to the predominance of one or
other of these. One makes virtue consist in prudence, another in
benevolence. One considers all actions as done from love of praise
or from vanity; another from self-esteem, from love of self-preser-
vation, self-interest and so on. Philosophers as well as other men
think differently, and each is also apt to consider his own manner
of thinking and feeling as the best; his consciousness tells him it
is so; but every one errs who assumes himself as a measure of the
absolute nature of man. In examining human nature, we ought to
make abstraction of omselves entirely; we ought never to admit in
man a feeling as the strongest, anrl a manner of thinking as the best,
solely because they are conformable to our own ; nor ought we
ever to deny in others what we ourselves do riot possess. ·we
should observe mental phenomena in the conviction that all the es-
sential kinds or particular faculties inhere in human nature ; and" we
should observe how and under what circumstances each faculty can
and does act. In this way I think it possible to determine the ab-
solute nature of man, and to become acquainted with the infinity
of modifications occurring in individuals.
It would be easy to quote examples in the case of every faculty,
to prove the mutual influence of the whole; but I shall only dwell
on this principle, in reference to abuses of the faculties, for the sake
of showing how peculiarities may be explained which seem incon-
ceivable to those who know nothing of Phrenology.
Suppose, for instance, we are told that of two inveterate thieves
presented to us, one has ne1'er scrupled to rob churches whilst the
other has, the robber of the church may be distinguished from the
other: he who has the smallest organ of veneration is the thief of
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 167
the holy articles. Suppose we see two women in confinement, and
are told that one has stolen, and that the other has concealed the
stolen things ; the former will have the organ of acquisitiveness
larger, and that of the propensity to conceal less, while the second
will have the organ of secretiveness much developed. If we would
detect the chief of a robber band, we examine the organs of self-
esteem and determinateness. We may distinguish an habitual
vagabond thief from a coiner of false money by his having, besides
the organ of acquisitiveness, the organ of locality larger, and
smaller organs of cautiousness and of constructiveness. "\Ve may
also distinguish dangerous and incorrigible criminals from the less
desperate and more easily amended. They who have the organs
of the sentiments proper to man and of intellect very small, but
those of the propensities to fight, to destroy, to conceal, and to ac-
quire, very much developed, will be corrected with far more dif-
ficulty than such as have the organ of acquisitiveness very much
developed, but at the same time the organs of the human faculties
and of intellect large, who, in short, are susceptible of moral will.
CHAPTER II.
On the di.fficulty of judging others.
Having examined the modified manifestations of the faculties of
the mind, natural order leads me to consider the difficulty of judg-
ing, and of determining the motives and actions of others. From
the preceding views it follows, first, that the judgment of every one
as well as all his other functions must be modified. If we but at-
tend to the judgments of different individuals upon the same object,
if we note their reflections, and consider what each praises or blames,
we may speedily be convinced by experience of the truth of this.
It may, indeed, be admitted as a principle, that every one judges
according to the natural modifications and the mutual influence of
168 PIIILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
his faculties;-that all judge others by their own nature, or take
themselves as the measure of good and evil. Therefore it is that
God has at all times been anthropomorphosed; every one has
modified the Divinity, and conceived a Creator conformable to
his own manner of judging and feeling. And when philosophers,
moralists, and the virtuous, regard conscience as the severest judge
of malefactors generally, they suppose in these degenerate beings
the sentiment they feel themselves;-they judge themselves in the
actions of others. In the same way, whatever is conformaule to
our manner of feeling and thinking is apt to be approved, and the
contrary to be disapproved of. To judge well, therefore, we must
first distinguish the common nature of man from the modifications
of every individual; and then we must know our own nature and
the modifications of our faculties to avoid censuring or lauding
others according to our own favorite sentiments or ideas. 'Ve
must, in fact, judge others and ourselves by one and the same
standard-absolute good and evil.
It is also difficult to judge of the actions of others, and to deter-
mine their real motives, because the motives of the same action
may be quite different. Appearances are proverbially deceitful.
I shall quote but a few examples in illustration ; a very superficial
glance, however, will, at all times, show us many motives for the
same act done by different individuals. One gives to the poor
from ostentation, another from duty, a third from the hope of
gaining heaven, and others again from real charity. One wishes to
know the history and situation of the unfortunate,-if he be of his
sect or party, &c, before he does good ; another relieves as soon
as he sees misery, every one is his neighbor, his left hand knows
not what his right hand does. One goes to church because it is
usual; another to see or to be seen; another to obtain the good
opinion of the pious; and another from feelings of sincere venera-
tion. One is neat and clean only when he goes into society, while
another is so at all times, even in solitude. One cultivates an art
or science from vanity; another because he is charmed with it; and
a third because he finds it advantageous, &c.
PRACTICAL CONSlDERATIONS. 169
It is the same with the abstaining from abuses. One, for in-
stance, from charity does not steal; another steals every where
except in the house where he lives; another robs churches, but not
the poor; another does not steal, for fear of.' being punished, for
fear of injuring his reputation, or from a sense of duty and justice,
&c. In short, every one knows that the same action he did, or
abstained from, has not always followed from the same motive.
Thus, if an action or omission is to be judged, it is necessary to
consider whether it resulted from the natural energy or inactivity
of the respective faculty, or whether other faculties exerted a
determinative influence. Jn judging others, we must remember
that every faculty may be active by its own energy or by the
excitement of other powers, and, again, may be inacti1·e by its
own insufficient energy, or by the influence of other faculties.
Hence it follows, that, on one hand, every function does not
suppose large developement of the respective organ; and, on the
other, that organs may be greatly developed without producing
abuses. The organ of acquisitiveness may be very large without
causing theft ; the organ of amativeness much developed without
occasioning libertinism; and so of the rest. The functions of very
large organs may be suppressed, though certainly not without diffi-
culty. The activity of every organ only produces a particular
inclination; the faculties mutually influence each other, and regulate
their subordination. Thus we cannot judge of other persons from
our own sentiments and intellectual endowments, nor by one or
several, but by the whole of their faculties together; and then only
censure or praise their actions as they disagree or harmonize with
the absolute moral nature of man.
The principle that every faculty may be active by its internal
energy, answers the question so often proposed in books: What is
the origin of the arts and sciences? In examining their source,
writers commonly begin from remote antiquity, and endeavor to
show how external circumstances have produced ami improved
them. ''Vithout denying the importance of external circumstances
as exciting causes, I still think that the most important, the pri-
22
170 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
mary cause, indeed, is overlooked; that, namely, which exists in
the conate organization ; the same, in fact, as that of the instinctive
labors of animals. Man invents and cultivates arts and sciences in
the same way and for the same reason that the beaver builds its hut,
and the nightingale sings. Every sentiment and every intellectual
faculty may act by its internal activity without external excitement ;
and this is the primitive source of the arts and sciences. Scarcely
could Handel speak, before he articulated musical sounds, and his
father, grieved at the child's propensity to music, banished all
musical instruments from his house; but this sublime genius was
not to be extinguished by the caprice of a mistaken parent; for the
boy contrived to get a little clavichord into a garret, and applying
himself to this after the family retired to rest, he soon learnt to
produce both melody and harmony.
Nature, then, invented arts and sciences, and revealed them to
man by means of his organization. Arts and sciences are also
gradually perfected only in proportion as they who cultivate them
are possessed of energetic organs.
Inferences.
The consideration of the two sources of activity of the faculties
leads me to the following question : What actions in reference to
morality deserve the greatest coufidence, those which result from
the goodness of nature, or those which are the effect of virtue ?
Though I think that good is always good in itself, and must ever
be approved of, I still allow that there is greater merit in virtue
than in natural goodness. I agree with the definition of virtue
which all the great ancient and modern philosophers have given, a~;
Aristotle, Plato, Cicero, Seneca, Kam, and others. I admit that
those who have vanquished temptations deserve particularly to be
rewarded, and that by the possibility of being either virtuous or
vicious, our actions have the greatest merit or demerit.*· Never-
• Non virtus est, non posse peccare1 cum renunciatur improbitati, statim ad·
aciscetur virtus. St. .l.lmlrrosius.-Nulia sine lahore virtus est. Non est gloriosa
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 171
theless, I confess that for my own· pa•·t and guidance in society, I
trust more to natural goodness than to virtue. I love goodness
and esteem virtue. Guided by early experience, which shows that
the greatest number of persons act more from d1e dictates of their
propensities and sentiments than of their understanding and mor-
al will, I never choose for my intimate friends individuals in whom
the inferior organs are very large, and the superior very small. In
the same way I think, that if the intellectual faculties act by their
internal energy, they effect much more than if they be excited by
sentiments or motives emanating from any other source.
From the modifications of our faculties results still another very
important practical rule-indulgence. It is impossible that othe,·s
should feel and think on every point as we do. Precisely as it is
generally admitted, that the functions of the external senses cannot
be altogether the same, and without any modification~and as it is
proverbially said, De gustibus non est disputandum, so also a1·e
the internal faculties modified, and no one has a right to desire an-
other to feel and think with him. A certain indulgence is indispen-
sable in society. I do not maintain that every manner of feeling
and thinking, and every action, are to be tolerated. There is a
victoria nisi ubi fuerint gloriosa certamina.. Idem in Ps. 118, et De OJ!.-Posse
peccare datum est prima homini, non ut proindc re·cearet, sed ut gloriosior app3.r·
~at, si non peccaret, dum peccare posset. St. Eernardu.s de Lib. Arb.-Vita nostra
in ha.c peregrinatione non potest esse Bine peccato1 sine tentatione, quia profec·
tus noster per tentationern nostram fit, nee sjbi quisquam innotescit, nisi tentatus;
nee potcst coronari, nisi vicerit; nee potest vincere, nisi certaverit; nee potest
certare, nisi inimicum et tentationes habuerit. & . .!Jugustinus super Ps. 60.-
Quidam in juventute luxuriose viventes, in senectute continentes fieri delectantur,
et tunc eligunt servire castitati, quando libido eos servos habere conternpsit. Ne·
quaquam in senectute continentes vacandi sunt .qui in juventute Iuxuriose vixer-
unt; tales non haberint prcemium, quia labotis certamen non habuerunt, eos enim
'Sp<'!Ctat gloria, in quibus fuerun't gloriosa certam.ina.. Isidor. de Summo BoM,
Lib. i. c. 31.-For there are some eunuchs which were so born from their moth·
er's womb, and there are some eunuchs which were made eunuchs of men, and
there be ·eunuchs which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of
hea.ven's sake. Jtfatt. xix. 12.-Joy shaH be in heaven over one sinner that re-
penteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance.
Luke. xv. 7.
172 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
common touchstone for all mankind. Feelings, thoughts, and ac·
tions, must be conformable to the absolute conscience of man ; but
all other modifications ought to be permitted. This principle may
be applied to both sexes, and to all conditions, and to all ages ; no
friendship can be permanent without indulgence upon many mod-
ifications in the manner of feeling and thinking. It is the same
in regard to religious and other opinions. St. Paul said to the
Romans, ' One believeth that he may eat all things ; another, who
is weak, eateth herbs ; let not him that eateth despise him that
eateth not, and let not him that eateth not judge him that eateth.
One man esteemeth one day above another, another esteemeth
every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own
mind. We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the
weak, and not to please ourselves. The kingdom of God is not
meat nor drink, but righteousness and peace.'
CHAPTER III.
On Sympathy and .B.ntipathy.
THE principle of the universally-modified manifestations of the
faculties leads me also to the consideration of sympathy and antipa-
thy. Throughout all nature, beings have relations with each other.
As we have seen that there are relations between the faculties of
the same individual, so there exist relations between the faculties
of different individuals. Indeed it is generally observed, that cer·
tain beings cannot exist together in society, while others dwell in
harmony and peace. Attraction and repulsion in physics, and affin-
ities in chemistry, are remarkable and well known; and even among
vegetables, some species perish in the neighborhood of certain oth-
ers, while many species increase and prosper very well together.
Among animals, the same law obtains, not only as different species,
6ut also as different individuals of the same kind are concerned.
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 173
Certain individuals of the same species manifest a particular attach-
ment, while others cannot bear with each other. In a herd of
cows, the hull is commonly more attached to one than to any of
the rest ; birds, too, pair by choice, &c.
It is the same with mankind. Be it, however, remembered,
that I do not speak of sympathy and antipathy in the same sense
as many authors do when they discuss the sympathies and antipa-
thies of the stomach and the five senses. They then describe
what is called idiosyncrasy. Certain persons, for instance, can-
not digest a particular kind of food, cannot endure certain odors,
are disgusted with particular savors, and cannot look at certain
figures, or touch certain bodies. I have already said that I admit
idiosyncrasies in the internal faculties ; but I here speak of the nat-
ural relations between the faculties of different individuals. Some
are, as it were, born for each other, while others mutally feel an
invincible aversion. This may be explained in the following man-
ner: First, certain faculties of man are eminently social, as attach-
ment and charity ; others are quite the contrary, for instance,
selfishness and pride. Again, according to a general rule, every
faculty desires to be satisfied. Hence every one is pleased with
whatever is conformable to his manner of feeling and thinking:
every one wishes to enjoy ; therefore every one likes those who
procure or permit him enjoyments. It is consequently evident,
that there is no single and invariable combination on which sympa-
thy depends. These vary iu the same degree as the faculties of
different individuals are modified. Before we can decide whether
two individuals will sympathize or not, we must consider all their
faculties ; and then we can see as certain that understanding must
like understanding ; and every intellectual faculty, manifestations of
a similar power in others. The musician is pleased with music ;
a mathematician with mathematics ; a philosopher with philosophi-
cal ideas ; a philologist with languages, &c. In the same way,
the sentiments proper to man look ror and sympathize with simi-
lar sentiments. A charitable man likes mild and benevolent peo-
ple ; the religious choose the society of the devout, and so on.
174 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Thus, the faculties of the understanding and the sentiments proper
to man favor sociality.
It is not precisely thus with the faculties common to man and
animals. Some of them, however, are social; as attachment, and,
in a certain degree, amativeness and philoprogeuitiveness ; but the
greatest number are eminently antisocial. The interested, for
instance, do not like the interested, except in as far as their own
selfishness is satisfied. Proud persons cannot suffer others en-
dowed with the same feeling. The haughty and interested not
only dislike one another, but are also disliked by those who are
possessed of the superior sentiments. This is the case, too, with
the propensities to fight and to destroy. Thus every one will
sympathize with those in whose society his faculties are satisfied ;
and antipathy will be proportionate to the obstacles in the way of
this, that is, to the prevention of enjoyment.
It is the !mimal nature which causes so many unhappy and ill-
assorted marriages. Amativeness or adhesiveness brings husband
and wife together; perhaps they have thought of money, beauty,
sometimes of health and intelligence, but they have forgotten the
other dispositions, which are independent of physical love and of
attachment, which cannot be bought, and which no intelligence
can give, but which, nevertheless, contribute greatly to the happi·
ness of those who bind themselves by indissoluble ties. All tltt>
other numerous faculties which are not satisfied soon change the
original sympathy of the couple into indifference or even into
antipathy, and then follow disorder and misery.
PRACTICAL CONSIVERATIONS. 175
CHAPTER IV.
On Happiness and Unhappiness.
IN speaking of happiness or unhappiness it is difficult to under·
stand each other. Both ancient and modern philosophers take
different views of happiness, and modify accordingly theit• ethical
doctrines. Th~les placed it in the health of body, in a compe·
tent fortune, and in a cultivated mind ; Socrates in the love of
truth, useful knowledge and virtue ; Plato in the contemplation and
knowledge of the first Good, God ; and in endeavoring to make
man as like to it as the conditions of human nature will permit ;
Aristippus in agreeable impressions on the senses ; Anniceris in
pleasant sensations and moral feelings ; Hegasias, a disciple of
Aristippus, in voluptuousness ; Epicurus in mental tranquillity,
bodily ease, and freedom from labor and pain ; Diogenes in an
absolute independence from circumstances ; Zeno in the freedom
from all sense of pleasure, and pain, from hope and fear, from all
feeling and emotions in every situation, in self-denial and self-
command. Marcus Aurelius said, that the .true contentment of
heart is not found in tbe study of arts, in eloquence, riches, glory,
sensual pleasures, in short nowhere but in the practice of actions
which the human nature demands. Paley denied that happiness
consists in the pleasures of sense, as in the animal gratification of
eating and drinking, or by which the species is preserved ; neither
in the refined pleasures of music, painting, architecture, gardening,
theatrical exhibitions, splendid shows ; nor in the pleasure of ac-
tive" sports, as of hunting, shooting, fishing ; neither in greatness,
rank, honot·s, nor in the exemption from pain, care, labor, busi-
ness, molestation ; but he placed it, 1st, in the exercise of social
affections, as husband, wife, children, kindred, and friends ; 2d,
in doing good to others ; 3d, in the pursuit of great engagements
and important occupations, and 4th, in health.
Yet it cannot be denied that some find their happiness in the
176 PHILOSOPHY at' THE MIND.
cultivation of arts,-in fishing or hunting ; whilst another delights
in examining metaphysical questions, or mathematical problems ;
and another in religious proselytism. Servile minds despair of
supporting existence in a state of civil liberty, whilst the truly free
man considers civil and religious liberty as the greatest good upon
earth, and indispensable to his happiness.
Phrenology easily explains these and many other views of hap-
piness. Human nature is composed of numerous special disposi-
tions and every special disposition may be active in diflerent de-
grees. Now every faculty being active and satisfied, is happy or
pleased ; and every active faculty which is not satisfied is displeased
or unhappy. Every one, then, who gives a definition of happi-
ness, expresses the state of his own mind, or the powers active in
him ; he takes his individual happiness as the standard of happiness
in general. No one, however, can measure the happiness or un-
happiness of others by his own, hence be finds his happiness in
the gratification of his active powers, in the same way as the sheep
whilst feeding on grass and the tiger whilst devouring its prey,
are happy each in its own manner. To speak with precision, it
is necessary to divide and subdivide happiness and unhappiness.
Both concern individuals, families, associations, nations or man-
kind at large. Farther, human uature being vegetative, affective,
intellectual, animal and human ; it follows that individuals, families,
associations, nations, or mankind may be happy or unhappy accord-
ing to the special powers. In individuals the sum of happiness is
made up by the sum of gratification of the active faculties, and in
every society the sum of happiness consists in the number of hap-
py individuals. Farther, happiness and unhappiness may be sub-
divided into temporal or eternal. The latter lies beyond the reach
of my inquiries. I am satisfied with stating that in my opinion both
these sorts of happiness are not incompatible with each other ; I
do not believe that we must be miserable here on earth in order to
be happy in the life to come.
In speaking of happiness, an important remark is to be kept in
view, viz. that the satisfaction of the active powers, not the special
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 177
gratification, is the foundation of happiness. The satisfac.tion of
hunger, not the enjoyment of dainties alone, makes happy. Run-
ning and moving about makes children happy, the individual game
is not the essence ; the satisfaction of all special powers varies
according to age and social circumstances, and they are mistaken
who think that individual and particular gratification constitute hap-
piness. Jn this respect there is more compensation in the world
than many imagine, in taking themselves as the standard of others.
I shall first treat of individual happiness, and then of that of so-
Cieties. The first condition of happiness certainly is health. Is it
then not astonishing that this condition is so much neglected ; whilst
the laws of hereditary descent and the dietetic rules ought to be
put into practice ? ·without health we nre unfit to receive educa-
tion, and to fulfil our duty in social relations. Without health we
are a burden to ourselves and to others.
The next condition of happiness is mental activity. This how-
e\·er is very different according to the special dispositions of the
mind. It is a matter of fact that, (and Phrenology explains why,)
by far the greater number of individuals look for their happiness
in the satisfaction of the faculties common to man and animals, such
as in the sensual pleasures, in the love of oifspring, in the love of
approbation, in the love of acquiring, and so on. In certain coun-
tries inferior pleasures alone are permitted ; means of subsistence
are provided for; the people have plenty to eat and to drink, but
all intellectual pleasures, and those beyond the range of mere ani-
mality, are interdicted. Very few persons cultivate arts and science
for the pleasure they procure in themselves. They do it to furnish
means necessary to the satisfaction of some animal desires. Finally,
those who are happy in the exercise of the faculties proper to man
are exceedingly rare. They are those who, as St. Paul says,
have the law written in their hearts ; those who find their happiness
in the abnegation of selfish desires, and in actions of gener~l happi-
ness ; those finally who in the eyes of common people are called
dreamers or fools.
It is a common saying, that man to be happy ought to have few
23
17S PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
wants. The expression want is here synonymous with desire,-
the effect of every faculty's activity and is as various in kind as
the fundamental faculties ; each want individually being proportion-
ate to the activity of the power from which it results. Wants or
desires then, or in other words the activity of the faculties are not
the immediate cause of happiness or unhappiness. The whole of
the mental powers acting with energy may be sources either of
bliss or of misery. This follows on the possibility or impossibility
of gratifying their impulses. He who has many faculties active
which he can satisfy, is more happy than the man who has no desire
whatever : butit is better to be without desire than to possess very
active faculties with no means of ministering to their cravings.
Even those who are eminently endowed with the superior senti-
ments, and who would like to see every one happy, find a kind of
misery in the injustice of mankind. The unfortunate of this kind,.
however, are by no means the most numerous.
The human as well as animal faculties produce wants or desires.
To be just is a want for the righteous, as to take nourishment is
'for him who is hungry. As, however, the animal faculties are the
most generally active in men, if wants are spoken of, we commonly
think of inferior powers, as of self-esteem, vanity, personal interest,
sensual pleasures, and so on. Now as happiness depends on the
gratification of active faculties, and unhappiness on their non-satis-
faction, it is obvious why those who are fond of ostentation, luxury,
riches, distinctions &c., are commonly unhappy : it is impossible
to appease their wants or desires.
It is also necessary to distinguish in the doctrine of wants in ref-
erence to morality, between the faculties themselves and the satis-
faction of their desires. The satisfaction may vary and produce
good and e\·!l.
Religiou[ ~entiments are inherent in human nature, they frequent-
ly act with e;rea< energy, and have done an immensity of mischief
to mankind. 1 et reilgmn itself should never be ridiculed ; wei!
directed, it may mcrease our own and our neighbor's happiness,
though certam notions and certain actions, called religious, are fit
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 179
butts for mockery. Religious belief may admit reasonable things
as well as absurdities, just as we may take wholesome or unwhole-
some food.
I shall now consider the happiness of societies. It depends,
1st, on the same principles of individual happiness ; and 2nd, on
some new principles which modify those of individual happiness.
Here I take for granted, what I have stated in the section on the
moral constitution of man, viz. that general happiness seems to be
the aim of the terrestrial creation, and that it is impossible without
the powers proper to man ; or that general happiness falls together
with true morality.
Though reason compels us to think that the Lord of the universe
in his goodness and perfection, destined man to be happy, it is
certain that to whatever side we turn our eyes, we perceive indi-
viduals who are unhappy and who lament their lot. ' I have trav-
elled over the world,' says Volney, (Rnins, ch. iv.) 'I have
visited villages and towns, and perceiving misery and desolation
over all, my soul bas been deeply afilicted by the ills which weigh
heavily upon mankind. \Vith a sigh I have said, and is man then
born only to suffer misery and pain ? I shall ask the ashes of legis-
lators, how empires rise and fall? ln what reside the causes of
prosperity or decay of nations ? On what principles the peace of
society and the happiness of mankind must be based ? '
It is not necessary to insist on the existence of human misery,
but let us ask for its causes. Various marvellous conceptions of
Divines are articles of faith, and do not fall within the reach of my
province, confined to observation. The natural causes of human
misery may be reduced to two: ignorance and immorality. Both
are great. From the cradle man is imbued with prejudices; he is
taught to fear his Maker, who is terrible. Man is the object of
his anger ; he was told to be tried by visitations and to be destined
to lament, to give up the use of his reason and to rely with on-
bounded confidence in his civil and religious leaders. The most
noble part of human nature, his moral and religious sentiments,
have been turned to his oppression, and he had not sense enough
ISO PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
to distinguish truth from falsehood. Man can never be happy, till
he knows his fundamental powers, the conditions on which their
manifestation> depend, and till he submits himself completely to the
will of his Creator, or in other terms, to the natural laws.
The ancient speculators in philosophy and religion, by their
doctrine that the mind operates independently of the body, or is
rather impeded by it in its operations, have done great harm to
mankind. On that account the body has been and is still neglect-
ed ; with the progress of cil'ilisation, it degenerates, and becomes
effeminate ; diseases multiply and misery is inevitable. The neg-
lect of the body is even cause that no family and no nation is
lasting.
Our ignorance of human nature and of the influence of the body
on the mental phenomena extends over the laws of hereditary
descent. The neglect of these laws, however, is of incalculable
consequences and prepares innumerable sufferings of body and
mind. Bodily strength, infirmity or disease, as well as mental
energy, weakness or derangement, are hereditary. Phrenology
teaches why. The study of the natural laws then ought to be the
Vade mecum of every philanthropist.
The other great cause of human misery is immorality. Philoso-
phers are right in recommending the cultivation of intellect, and by
doing so, many disorders will be removed, but the aim will not
be attained without attending with the same care to the moral nature
of man.
In the section on the moral constitution of man I have shown
the innateness, nature and nect-ssity of morality. It will last as
long as the human kind, and is indispensable to its happiness.
Phrenology explains this part of human nature better than it has
been done by any philosophical doctrine. It shows why religious-
ness may be combined with selfishness, cunning and deceit ; why
in the midst of wickedness some persons are naturally virtuous ;
and why selfishness, stupidity, base passions and want of justice
arc so common.
The great activity of the animal nature is evidently a fertile
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 181
cause of human misery, for two reasons. Many are unhappy
by not satisfying their excessively energetic feelings, without any
moral consideration. It is therefore extremely interesting to ex-
amine why the brute nature of man is so active, and why the
multitude place happiness in the satisfaction of inferior feelings,
and carry in themselves the cause of their own and others' misery.
Farther, human misery depends on the relation between the two
natures of man, on the different degrees of their activity and on the
resistance of the inferior to the superior. For as the moral laws
exist, and as few feel naturally disposed to submit to them, the
greater number have to combat their animal propensities. Now,
as pain is felt each time any inclination is opposed, or any law is
obeyed, which would willingly be eluded, or whose necessity is
not understood, it is obvious that in the actual state of things the
virtuously good must spend a life of suffering.
These ideas are admirably developed in the doctrine of Chris-
tJamty. Morality is there declared the aim which must be obtain-
ed, whether with ease or with difficulty, with pleasure or with pain,
through love or through fear. The great difficulty of vanquishing
the brute nature is acknowledged, but the necessity of fulfilling the
law or will of the Creator is still insisted on. For this, therefore,
reward is also in proportion to the pains of ~uccess ; eternal life
is promised to those who gain the victory, and the 'joy in Heaven
over one sinner that repenteth shall be more than over ninety and
nine just persons which need not repentance.'*
Without pretending to know what the cerebral organization was
at the beginning, or whether it bas suffered any change in the lapse
of time; but in the conviction that the manifestation of the mind
depebds on the brain, I dare to say, that the wickedness of man-
kind-, the disobedience to the peculiarly human nature, will con-
tinue so long as the brain remains such as it is.. I dare answer in
the most positive manner the following passage of Volney : (Ruins,
cb. xiv.) 'Man who despairest of mankind, bast thou scrutinized
the organization of sensibility, in order to determine with precision,
*Luke xv. 7.
182 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
whether the motives which dispose man to happiness are essen·
tially weaker than those which remove him from it ?' But I still
say with him, ' If at one time, and in one place, certain individuals
become better, why should not the whole mass improve ? If par-
tial societies become more perfect, why should it not happen with
society at large ?' Phrenology explains why so few find pleasure in
cultivating their intellectual faculties, and why almost all seek en·
joyment in gratifying some one or other of the sentiments ;-why
the animal nature is so active, and the powers proper to man pro-
portionately so weak. The cerebral mass devoted to the intellec·
tual operations is to that of the affective functions scarcely as one
finger to the whole hand, and the organs of the animal feelings
together are much larger than the organs of the human sentiments.
These observations are founded on the invariable laws of nature,
and it is impossible to insist too much on the error of philosophers ;
to consider understanding as the chief and fundamental cause of
our actions, and to overlook the influence of the brain in the men-
tal phenomena.
What must be done to better the lot of JIIankind?
The friends of man have at all times been interested in this mat·
ter. They have proposed many and various means, natural and
supernatural, according to the ideas they had conceived of the
cause of human misery. Hitherto, however, there has been little
or nothing effected. From this I infer that the measures.employed
were insufficient.
Bishop Butler speaks of the moral government, of the superiority
and advantages of virtue, of the natural tendency to be virtuous and
of the hindrances to be so, but he adds: ' that these hindrances
are so far from being necessary that we ourselves can easily con·
ceive how they may be removed in future states, and full scope be
granted to virtue.' To this end he supposes ' a kingdom or society
of men perfectly virtuous, for a succession of many ages, to which,
if you please, may be given a situation advantageous for a universal
PRACTICAL CONSIVERATIONS. 183
monarc.hy. In such a state there would he no such thing as fac·
tion, but men of the greatest capacity IYould of course all along
have the chief direction of affairs willingly yielded to them, and
they would share it among themselves without em-y. Each of
these would have the part assigned him, to which his genius
was particularly adapted, and others who had not any distin-
' guished genius would be safe and think themselves very happy by
being under the protection and guidance of those who had. Public
determinations would really be the result of the united wisdcn1 of
the community, and they would faithfully be executed by the united
strength of it. Some would in a higher way contribute, hut all
would in some way contribute to the public prosperity, and in it each
would enjoy the fruits of his own virtue. And as injustice, whether
by fraud or force, would be unknown among themselves, so they
would be sufficiently secured from it in their neighbors. For cunning
and false self-interest, confederacies in injustice, accompanied with
faction, and intestine treachery, would be found mere childish folly
and weakness, when set in opposition against wisdom, public spirit,
union inviolable, and fidelity, allowing both asufficient length ofyears
to try their force. Add the general influence which such a kingdom
would have over the face ofthe earth, by way of example particularly,
and the reverence which would be paid it. It would plainly be
superior to all others, and the world must gradually come under its
empire, not by means of lawless violence, but partly what mus( be
allowed to be just conquest, and partly by other kingdoms submit-
ting themselves voluntarily to it, throughout a course of ages, and
claiming its protection one after another in successive exigencies.
The head of it would be a universal monarch in another sense than
any mortal has' yet been; and the .Eastern style would be literally
applicable to him, that all people, nations and languages should
sen;e him. And though indeed our knowledge of human nature,
and the whole history of mankind, show the impossibility without
some miraculous interposition, that a number of men, here on earth,
should unite in one society of government, in the fear of God and
the universal practice of virtue, and that such a government should
184 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
continue so united for a succession of ages, yet admitting or sup·
posing this, the effect would be as now drawn out; and thus, for
instance, the wonderful prosperity promised to the Jewish nation in
the Scripture, would be in a great measure the consequence of what
is predicted to them, that the people should be all righteous and
inherit the land forever. (Is. i. 21).-The prediction of this
kind, continues Bishop Butler, cannot come to pass in the present
known course of nature.'
Phrenology affords a clearer insight into human nature, and in
my work on Education I consider all that I deem requisite to im-
prove the species and to establish God's moral government, which,
a5 Bishop Butler says, is not fictitious but natuml. H ere I con-
fine myself to a few general indications, which are commonly
neglected by those who exercise some influence on society.
The causes of human misery being ascertained, it is e'•ident, that
whatever impedes human happiness must be removed or at least
diminished. The study of human nature forms the foundation.
This being done, moralists will see, that human happiness requires
more than to preach moral principles, to give alms, to found charity-
institutions, to follow religious ceremonies, and to cultivate the arts
and sciences; they will apprehend that the evil is to be attacked by
the root, that is, that natural means must be employed to improve
dispositions. The body, the temple of the soul, will be more at·
tended to ; the laws of vegetative functions and of hereditary
descent will he appreciated and put into practice. The maxim,
make the tree good and it will bring forth good fruit, will be con-
stantly present to philanthropists and legislators. In short, ignorance
and immorality will be attacked by all possible means. All that
can augment or excite the animal nature is to be avoided, and every
condition that may develope the faculties proper to man is to be
encouraged. Gm·ernments cannot be serious in their desire for
morality so long as they encourage lotteries, countenance games of
hazard, and keep mercenary soldiers in pay. The importance of
the faculties proper to man, or his moral constitution in regard to
general happiness, is a point which cannot be too strongly nor
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 185
too often recommended. The superior powers are satisfied by
their own functions. The just, the benevolent, the religious and
the disinterested need not foreign aid to satisfy their noble feelings.
Inferior inclinations, on the contrary, almost always depend on the
caprices of others for their gratification. The egotist, for instance,
is opposed in his undertakings by those who, like him, think
chiefly of themselves. The ambitious man is unhappy if he be not
approved of, or honored to the extent he thinks he has deserved.
He who, prompted by charity, does good, finds his reward in the
deed itself; but he who does good to gain approbation, or grati-
tude, is liable to be deceived, and, in the very act, often prepares
himself a source of sorrow. In proportion, therefore, as the ani-
mal nature shall lose in energy, and the peculiarly human faculties
gain in strength, the sum of human happiness will increase.
As man, in the actual state of things, cannot be left to himself,
as his actions must be directed by social institutions, it is much to
be wished that these were conformable to the im•ariable laws of
natural morality. I fear, that notwithstanding the sincerest love of
truth and the purest intentions, some means which are useless, and
even noxious, will be resorted to, on account of human nature not
being sufficiently known.
Whatever may be done, however, the progress will necessarily
be slow. Governments must as a first step begin by nourishing
pure intentions, by giving up all selfish and exclusionary views and
in all their particular regulations, by favoring general happiness.
Let those whose duty it is to direct society, reflect on the two
natures of man ; on the superiority of the one over the other ; and,
farther, on the faculties which compose each; let thzm be convinced
that every fundamental power exists of itself; that chal"ity is not the
result of faith, nor faith of charity; and that all the faculties, though
existing independently, may be combined, and mutually aid and
excite each other.
Though the animal faculties being the principal cause of human
misery, must, by all means, be diminished, yet it is to be remem-
bered that no fundamental power can be annihilated, but the actions
24
186 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
of all must be directed. I have explained my ideas sufficiently,
not to be suspected of speaking in favor of any arbitrary regulation ;
yet I shall always insist on the necessity of restraining the animal
faculties by those proper to man. In my opinion, consequently,
personal, as well as moral liberty is limited. I have already treated
of moral liberty ; I shall here add my views of that which is per-
sonal in connP.xion with general happiness.
CHAPTER V.
Of Personal Liberty.
MAN, it is said, is born free. Th1s proposition has been used
by some authors in a very extensive signification. Every one,
they have said, may do whatever he pleases. This interpretation,
howe\'er, is incompatible with the constitution of the human mind.
Let us observe the order of nature, that we may understand the
will of the Creator.
Personal liberty we see is first limited by the laws of nature.
Conception, birth, growth, health, and every function of vitality,
as subjected to positive circumstances, force us at once to look
on man as very dependent. Farther, man depends entirely upon
vthers during his long infancy. And, again, as a social being, he
has duties to fulfil, and rights to reclaim ; now, the idea of mutual
obligation is incompatible with unbounded, or that liberty which
admits every kind of individual gratification. We must live and
permit others to live ; we must do our duty as child, as parent,.
and as citizen. The elucidation of these points belongs to the
study of the law of nature, or of the rights and duties of man.
The personal liberty of man is also limited by the reality of his
two natures, and by the superiority of the one. The animal fac-
ulties must be subordinate to the powers proper to man, and the true
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 187
Christian is still the slave of justice. This principle, the touch-
stone of the excellence or imperfection of civil laws, bounds at the
same time those who govern and those who are governed, and it
proves clearly that by the will of the Creator the personal libeny
of man is limited. It has, indeed, been said repeatedly, that with-
out morality no society can exist, and that liberty is not licentious-
ness. This is strictly true. The laws, however, must be just in
favoring the common welfare.
Finally, the faculties proper to man may deviate from their
natural destination, and this they do each time they act separately.
Benevolence without justice and retlectioB, may do much evil,
and justice without benevolence may be too severe. Thus even
the most noble parts of man's nature are limited, and kept m
check by each other ; all must act in harmony to elicit good.
The truth, that personal liberty is very much circumscribed, is
never neglected without great disorders following. \Ve must,
however, add that no one has any natural right, arbitrarily and
from selfish motives, to limit the personal liberty of others. Yol-
ney says, '\Vheresoever I cast my eye, whatever the period of
which I think, I find the same principles of increase, or of destruc-
tion, of elevation and of decline. If evel' a nation be powerful, or
an empire prosper, its conventional laws are conformable to those
of nature. If, on the contrary, a state sink in ruin or be dissolv-
ed, the laws are imperfect or vicious, or the government is corrupt
and violates the laws.' Civil restrictions ought to be the mere
application of those of nature; they ought to be the same for every
member of the community, and the aim of their imposition-the
general happiness. Nature applies its laws constantly and indis-
criminately ; nature is incorruptible, and makes no exceptions.
Human regulations alone are liable to this reproach. Governors
and the governed are subjected to the same laws of propagation,
of nutrition, of health, disease and death. \Vho can deny that
nature is equally constant in the application of its moral laws?
Happy period when every one will be obliged to conform his
conduct to them !
ISS PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
In order to elucidate my ideas on the necessity of submitting
the individual desires to the natural laws of morality, l shall
quote physical love, attachment, self-love or covetiveness, and the
love of approbation, and whatever I say of them will apply to
the other feelings common to man and animals. The subordina-
tion of tbe animal nature to proper humanity, seems to me as
necessary w the happiness of mankind, as is attention to matters
used as food to individual preservation. A poisonous substance
can never become wholesome aliment, and any action inimical' to
the happiness of mankind will never lose its essential and immoral
character.
Is it permitted to limit physical love in society ? The faculties
proper to man decide the question. Por as these are destined to
general happiness, physical love being an animal feeling, must be
restrained whenever it acts in opposition to their dictates. Now,
there can be no doubt that the number of inhabitants in a country
influences their state of being. Too crowded a population un-
avoidably causes misery and degeneration of the species. Both
natural and Christian morality forbid us to exterminate or to forsake
such unhappy beings as exist ; society is even bound to take care
of them, but their farther multiplication, as well as every other
cause that militates against general happiness, may be lawfully
opposed.
The most enlightened economists, admit that population increas-
es in the ratio of the means of subsistence, in the same way as all
living beings multiply or perish, according as they are well or ill
supplied with nourishment. Vegetation prospers if the soil be well
manured. Birds that live on insects are more or less numerous in
districts, according to the quantity of food they afford. Herbivo-
rous animals abound in lands which are rich in forage, and countries
are peopled in proportion as they furnish the means of living.
It is true that a greater number of soiJer and temperate than of glut-
tonous and luxurious persons may live in a given district, but nour-
ishment is still the principal condition influencing population. The
equilibrium between aliment and consumers is always preserved ;
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 189
sometimes, however, at the expense of a vast quantity of individual
suffering. vVere it not more meritorious, therefore, in govern-
ments, and more beneficial to the community at large, entirely to
prevent the evil which becomes necessary to diminish the number
of inhabitants ? Since beggars, and those with hereditary dispositions
to diseases, only propagate to the detriment of society and entail
misery on their progeny, were it not better to prevent them from
marriage altogether ?
Let those who think differently reflect on the destination of
mankind, and on all that is done, or rather neglected in society as
relates to marriage, and they will not, without distinction, defend
personal liberty in regard to propagation.
Both civil and religious regulations have, in some instances, re-
strained the desire, or even abstracted the power of propagation.
Libertinism is interdicted in all countries, and adultery is punished
as a crime. Soldiers and sailors are prohibited from marrying ;
they, however, are the stoutest and best made men ; for bodily
weakness and disease exempt and exclude from the military and
naval service. Now, if society can prevent the choice of its youth
from propagating, nay, if it think proper to make them expose their
lives for the common welfare, as it is said, 1v.hy should it not also
have the right to interdict the marriages of those who propagate to
the common calamity ?
Let us farther reflect on the celibacy of priests of the Romish
Church, and even on the example of Christ's apostles, who were
advised against marriage. Now, if the prohibition of marriage be
just and necessary as soldiers, sailors, and priests are concerned,
and if polygamy in general be inadmissible, why should the propa-
gation of infirmities and vices be endured? I think that marriages
ought to be regulated by the rule of natural momlity, and that this
is an essential condition to general happiness. More details on
this subject are given in my work on Education.
Another point conformable to the civil laws of all countries, but
contrary to the morality of nature and Christianity, concerns exclu-
sive love of every kind. Love of our family and of our country,
190 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
are natural it is true, but both are common to man and animals,
hence they must be subordinate to universal charity. Farther,
attachment to those around us is laudable, but justice and truth are
to precede every other consideration. The man must always
triumph over the animal ; hence we must prefer truth and general
happiness before our country; we must give up national pride and
the innumerable prejudices and evils that result from it, for the sake
of entire humanity. Let us appreciate things in themselves and
independently of occasions or causes. The Samaritan who has
compassion on an unfortunate Israelite, dresses his wounds, and
takes care of him, is truly his neighbor, and not the Jew or the
Levite who looks at him and passes on. On the score of universal
love, man, indeed, generally, and pretended Christians particularly,
are very far behind. There is no nation which practises this noble
precept of Christianity, and nothing but a perfect knowledge of
human nature will ever incline men to follow it, or induce them to
change the erroneous and pernicious opinions they entertain on this
subject.
I arrive at the third point, which is equally delicate and con-
tested, but indispensable to general happiness ; I mean the restric-
tion of selfishness. This feeling is the most formidable of all the
enemies of mankind. It particularly induces neglect of the natural
laws of morality, and divides society; it excites one individual
against another, family against family, and nation against nation ; it
saps the foundations of empires, for it sells places,justice, and even
puts up Hea\'en and immortality at a price ; it concentrates all
power in an individual, and establishes absolute governments, &c.
We may therefore ask whether society has the right of restraining
the desire to acquire, and how far it may enforce it ?
The answer is similar to that given to the questions implicating
the other animal faculties. The desire to acquire is a fundamental
power, and cannot be annihilated by any enactment; it is a strong
motive exciting the other aptitudes and dispositions, and may be
most usefully employed; however, to what extent its activity is
admissible is a point not yet determined. As an animal feeling,
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 191
it must necessarily be subordinate to the moral nature; indeed, as
all countries have laws against its abuses, the propriety of limiting
its desires is evident.
We are, now-a-days, permitted openly to maintain the injustice
and the violation of natural morality and of true Christian principles,
committed when individuals are secured in the possession of pecu-
liar privileges and immunities. 1Ve may now also dare to say that
personal merit is preferable to the pride of ancestry; that it is
more just to reward talents than incapacity; and that every one
should be obliged to exercise his natural powers to add to the
common stock of industry, and ought only to reap the fruit~. of his
own exertions.
This, the effect of civilisation, is a great step towards natural
morality-the only basis of general happiness ; hut I dare maintain
that it is not yet sufficient to render it paramount. The obstacle
lies in the inequality of natural talents, and in the weakness of the
moral sentiments, in by far the greater number of individuals. So
long as every one shall work merely for his own interest, fortunes
will necessarily be unequal. A few will succeed each oth~r in
opulence, and many will dwell in poverty and misery. This incon-
veniency is mentioned in the Christian system ; a difference of
natural gifts is recognised ; but all are commanded to employ their
endowments to the common advantage.
In this, as in every discussion having the actions of man f,r its
object, I start from the principle that natural morality ought to
govern mankind, and that general happiness is preferable to that of
individuals. He then who uses his faculties to the furtherance of
the common weal, ought to enjoy full liberty, and to meet encour-
agement in his noble purposes ; \Vhile all who think only of their
private interest are to be superintended, lest the commonwealth
suffer by their undertakings.
Great manufactories, for instance, which are so apt to ruin the
body and the mind of those engaged in them, must be overlooked ;
no one has the right to make others vicious and unhappy, that he
may procure enjoyments or amass riches ; and if personal morality
r
192 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
suffice not to prevent the doing evil, society has a prime right to
interfere, and, guided by general morality, to supply all that is de·
fectivc.
Hence, universal happiness, as it is the aim of legislation in gen-
eral, must be the basis of all enactments relative to property. So
long as individuals shall be suffered to collect riches without limits,
the causes of misery and of slavery will endure. The poor will
sell themselves to the rich, and the rich will find easy means of
imposing their arbitrary will as law upon society.
This, however, is a subject surrounded by innumerable difficul-
ties. Much has been written upon it, but all has not yet rendered
it clear in every one of its points. Property must be respected,
otherwise civil wars and the dissolution of society would be un·
avoidable ; but, again, if in the regulations concerning property,
general happiness be neglected, the order of things established can-
not be pe1·manent. Fortunes get more and more concentrated, the
equilibrium is disturbed,-and in the end the rich to maintain pos-
session are obliged to repel by force the attacks of the poor, who
think themselves strong in their numbers. The division of property
is, therefore, a necessary condition to general happiness ; hence,
primogeniture is inadmissible, and opposed to natural morality,
which recognises reward as well-bestowed for personal merit alone.
I have already said, that if it be unjust to punish children for the
faults of parents, it cannot be just to reward them for the merits of
sires ; I add-
That to me it seems necessary for the nations which would
secme a permanent existence, to fix the maximum of the proper-
ty that may be acquired, as well as the conditions, viz., natural
morality, in conformity with which it may be amassed; or else, as
it seems f.1ir that every one should enjoy the fruits of his labor,
parents might, under certain conditions, be permitted to acquire
to the extent they pleased, but still have the power of transmitting
a certain sum only to their children when arrived at the age of
matunty, while the rest of their gains should revert to the common-
wealth, and be employed in purposes of public usefulness. This
PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 193
would be the best way of doing justice to the community, and of
preventing idleness, that foster-parent of vice.
History proves that nations attain the highest prosperity when
every one is permitted to work for his peculiar advantage ; but
history also proves that this prosperity is not permanent ; its very
causes involve the elements of decline; for luxury, indolence,
moral corruption, degeneracy of body, and feebleness of mind, are
consequences of its temporary endurance, and these are the sure
precursors to the death of empires. I leave this discussion to those
who are occupied with politics. I am particularly interested in
calling the attention of all thinking people to the necessity of found-
ing society on the broad basis of natural morality, itself the sole,
sure, and unalterable foundation of universal welfare. This ground
is more stable than that which sensual pleasures or the arts and
sciences can supply. The indulgence of inferior appetites degrades,
morality ennobles human nature, and is indispensable, whilst the
arts' and sciences are mere embellishments of existence. Jesus
taught his disciples to be satisfied with their daily bread and with
what is necessary to their existence. He condemned riches in
the most severe terms.
To impress still more deeply the importance of subordinating
the animal feelings to the faculties proper to man, I shall speak
summarily of the love of approbation. This sentiment exists in
animals and in man, and exercises a powerful influence over all
our actions in society. Still to permit its unbounded activity is
a very great error. Nations in whom it prevails are scarcely fit
for a free government, servility, so to speak, is their natural bent.
Blinded by external appearances they overlook the common wel-
fare. Titles, decorations, encomiums are effectual instruments in
the hands of their governors to enslave them.
Two prime errors are to be guarded against ; in the first place,
distinction is never to be conferred on account of actions resulting
from the animal nature, undirected by the superior faculties ; and
again, distinction ought never to be the aim of human actions.
From all I have said then, it follows that I consider the submis-
25
194 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
sion to the natural laws and the practice of natural morality as in-
dispensable to the welfare of mankind at large, and that all social
institutions ought to be founded on this natural morality, which has
been, is,. and will ever be, invariable. Individually I call those
happy who enjoy good health and without difficulty subject their
animal nature to the faculties proper to man ; who, for instance,
are satisfied with such things as are merely necessary-with their
daily bread; who desire not superHuities, luxuries, riches, or dis-
tinctions ; who taste of all pleasures in moderation, enjoying every
thing, but abusing nothing; who cultivate art or science for the
delights it affords ; who in every situation do their duty, and who
stand not in need of others or foreign aid, to satisfy their active
faculties. Unhappy, on the other hand, are almost all who look
for their personal well-being in things which are opposed to natural
morality ; who have many and active faculties, the satisfaction of
which depends on others ; whose inferior faculties, in short, are
the most energetic, especially if they injure the health, and if their
indulgence be expensive.
SECTION VIII.
Explanation of different Philosophic~! Expressions.
Nothing is more vague than the language of philosophy. Many
expressions have several significations, and almost every term in
use has been invented to designate actions, and not the facul-
ties which produce them. •To make this difference felt I shall
collect several of the most common words, and in one column
give their usual signification, in another their explanation accord-
ing to the fundamental faculties, referring the reader to the pas-
sages either in the physiological or in the philosophical part of
this work, in which the terms as they occur are more particularly
explained.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 195
Common Significations. Explanation according to the Faeultie8.
.flbsolute.
Unconditional ; not relative. Nothing but God is absolute.
In man every thing is relative
and conditional.
.fldmiration.
A tribute paid by individuals to It is an affection of the sense of
whateverappears to them good marvellousness.
and excellent.
.fldoration.
The external homage paid to The effect of the sense of ven-
the Divinity. eration.
.llffectation.
A singular manner of speaking ;
the making an external ap·
pearance in order to attract
the attention of others.
It results from the love of appro-
bation when not combined
with understanding ; it in-
creases in combination with
secretiveness and ideality.
.llffections.
Certain states of the mind. They are the modes of being
affected of the fundamental
faculties. See p. 56 of this
volume.
.flmbition.
Great desire of preferment and
distinction.
An effect of great activity of the
love of approbation applied to
things of importance. See p.
206, vol. i.
196 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Significations. Explanation according to the Faeultie!l;
.!J.nger.
Uneasiness upon a receipt of A violent emotion with an incf1
any disagreeable sensation. nation to revenge.
.!J.pathy.
The quality of not feeling ; ex-
emption from passion ; free-
dom from mental excitation.
Inactivity of every fundamental
faculty ; it is partial, or more
or less general.
JJ.rd()t'.
Heat, or eagerness in action. Great activity of every funda-
mental power.
A word used in opposition to The •·esult of individual powers
nature ; something effected by of the mind.
skill and dexterity.
.!J.ttention.
Application of the mind to any
subject,
The result of the individual in-
tellectual faculties. See p.
42 of this volume.
.!J.ttrition.
Grief of sin arising from the
fear of punishment.
A disagreeable affection of the
sense of conscientiousness
caused by that of veneration,
assisted by benevolence and
circumspection.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 197
Common Significations. Explanation according to the Faculties.
Beautiful.
Each agreeable sensation by
means of hearing and seeing.
It designs the harmonious rela-
tions between external impres-
sions and the intellectual fac-
ulties of the mind, principally
the senses of extension, con-
figuration, coloring, tone, and
order.
Belief
Credit given to something which
we lmow not of ourselves
Hope disposes to belief ; hope
and marvellousness produce
religious belief.
Disposition to do good.
Benevolence.
A fundamental faculty. Seep.
212, vol. i..
Charming.
Pleasing in the highest degree. Springs from a high degree of
satisfaction of every funda-
mental faculty.
Painful sympathy.
Compassion.
A disagreeable affection, ormode
of action of benevolence.
Confusion.
Distraction of mind and indis- Defect of order in general, dis·
tinct combination of ideas. cord among the functions.
198 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Significations. Explanation a.eeording to tbe Faeult.ie~~,
Conscience.
The faculty by which we judge A mode of action of conscien-
of good and evil. tiousness.
Constancy.
Unalterable continuance. Tbe effect of firmness assisted
by the activity of the individ-
ual faculties.
Consternation.
Astonishment accompanied with An affection of marvellousness
terror. and circumspection without
hope and courage.
The act of despising.
Contempt.
A disagreeable affection of self-
esteem, produced by various
causes.
Contentment.
Acquiescence without plenary
satisfaction.
A degree of satisfaction of every
fundamental faculty.
Sorrow for sin.
Contrition.
A disagreeable affection of con·
scientiousness, caused by be-
nevolence, veneration, and
marvellousness.
PUILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 199
Common Significations.
Active fortitude.
Explanation according to the Faculties.
Courage.
A fundamental power. See p.
185, Vol. i.
Cruelty.
Delight taken in the pain of It results from the satisfaction
others. of destructiveness without be-
nevolence.
Unlawful longing.
Wish to enjoy.
Cupidity.
Great activity of acquisitiveness.
Desire.
A result of every faculty in ac-
tion. See p. 53, of this vol.
Desolation.
A sort of mixture of melancholy
and despair.
A disagreeable affection of at-
tachment, and ofbenevolence,
or of circumspection without
courage, hope, and firmness.
Hopelessness.
An Ar.t of contemnt.
Despair.
A disagreeable affection of cir-
cumspection without _h?pe.
Despise.
.200 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Significations.
Want of confidence.
A sort of contempt.
Irregularity, neglect of rule.
Uncertainty of mind.
Explanation according to the Fatultiet.
Diffidence.
The effect of circumspection,
combined with secretiveness
and intellect.
Disdain.
A disagreeable affection of self-
esteem.
Disorder.
Want of order and time; often
also want of justice and be-
nevolence.
Doubt.
The effect of circumspection,
combined with intellect.
Duty.
That to which a man is by any The effect of consdentiousness.
natural or legal obligation
bound.
Envy.
Pain felt at the sight of excel-
lence or happiness in ano-
ther.
The effect of selfishness, com-
bined with various inferior
powers, and without benevo-
lence.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 201
Common Sjgnlfieations. Explanation according to the Facuitiu.
Ecstasy.
Rapture and excessive eleva-
tion of the mind.
The faculties of marvellousness,
ideality, mirthfulness, and
hope, d1spose to this state of
mind.
Faith.
Belief in the revealed truths of The effect of marvellousness and
religion. hope.
J:ilriendship.
The state of minds united by A fundamental feeling. See
mutual benevolence. - Vol. i. p. 161.
A strong and sudden fear.
A violent fit of anger.
Fright.
A strong and sudden affection
of circumspection.
Fury.
An affection and strong irritation
of courage and destructive-
ness.
Genius.
A man endowed with mental
powers in a high degree.
Tl1e highest degree of actlvtty
of the individual faculties.
Sorrow for something past.
26
Grief.
Astate of dissatisfaction of every
fundamental faculty._
.20.2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Signi1leadons.
Ill·will.
State of satisfactiOn.
Pride, arrogance.
Reputation, dignity.
Expla.natlon accordlnr; to the Faculties.
Hatred.
A compound affect1on, It results
from opposition to our selfish
7iews, whilst benevolence and
justice are inactive.
Happiness.
The effect of the satisfaction of
every fundamental faculty.
Haughtiness.
The effect of self-esteem, some·
times combined with firmness
and justice.
Honor.
Its basis is the love of appro·
bation. It is often modified
by self-love and veneration.
Hope.
Expectation of something which
we desire.
A fundamental power.
Vol. i.
See
Horror.
Terror, mixed with detestation. A disagreeable, more or less com-
pound, affection of benevo-
lence, veneration, justice, cir-
cumspection, approbation, and
configuration.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 203
Common Significations.
Thought, mental image.
Explanation according to the Facultiu.
Idea.
The effect of each intellectual
faculty.
Imagination.
The power of forming ideas,
and of representing ideas of
absent things.
The spontaneous and great acti-
vity of every faculty; act;v1ty
of ideality. See p. 38, of
this volume.
Inability to suffer delay.
Great vivacity in action.
Want of attention.
Unconcernedness.
Impatience.
Great actiVIty of every funda-
mental faculty.
Impetuosity.
Great and quick activity of the
fundamental faculties, princi-
pally ofideality, self-love, cou-
rage, ofthe love ofapprobation
and of mirthfulness, without
circumspection.
Inattention.
Inactivity of every intellectual
faculty. See. p. 35 of this
volume.
Indifference.
Little activity of every funda-
mental faculty
204 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MlND.
Common Significations. Explanation according to tbe Faculties.
Indignation.
Anger, mingled with contempt
or disgust.
A compound affection of self-
esteem, justice, courage, and
the Jove of approbation.
Indolence.
Laziness, carelessness. Little activity of the fundamen-
tal faculties.
Insolence.
Pride, displayed in contemp-
tuous treatment of others.
The effect of great self-esteem,
courage, and other inferior
feelings, combined with little
justice.
Instinct.
An impulse to act m the mind
not determined by delibera-
tion.
The effect of spontaneous activi-
ty of every faculty. See p.
28, of this volume.
Jealousy.
Suspicious caution, or rivalry. A compound affection of selfish-
ness, and various fundamental
powers.
Joy.
A lively and agreeable emotion
of the mind.
An agreeable affection of every
fundamental faculty, particu-
lar!y of the feelings.
Judgment.
The power of Judging ; the de- A mode of action of the intel-
termination come to. Jectual faculties. See p. "0,
of this volume.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 205
Common Significations. Explanation according to the Faculties.
Knowledge.
Cognizance, clear perception. The effect of the activity of
every intellectual faculty.
Love (physical.)
The passion between the sexes. A fundamental power. Sec vol.
i. p. 147.
Indifferent, not ardent.
A gloomy temper.
Lukewarm.
Little activity of the fundamental
faculties.
Jlfelancholy.
A disagreeable affection of the
feelings, particularly of cir-
cumspection.
Memory.
The power of recollecting things
past.
An internal repetition of its func-
tion by every intellectual fac-
ulty. See this vol. p. 36.
•Moderation.
Forbearance; not going to ex- A moderate activity of every
tremities. faculty.
Jl:lodesty.
Decency, purity of manners. Little activity ofself-esteem with
benevolence, circumspection,
and justice.
206 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Significations. Explanation according to the Facultleg,
Morality.
Practice of the duties of life. The effect of the faculties pro-
per to man, particularly of
conscientiousness.
.N'egligence.
The habit of omitting, or of
acting carelessly.
Little activity of the individual
faculties, particularly oforder,
of the _desire to acquire, &c.
Nobility.
Persons of high rank. True nobility results from acti-
vity of the superior senti-
ments.
Pain.
A dtsagreeable sensation. A disagreeable affection of every
fundamental faculty.
Passion.
Violent emotion of the mind. The highest degree of actlvtty
of every faculty. See p. 52,
of this volume.
Patience.
The power of expecting long,
or of suffering without discon-
tent.
Moderate activity of the facul-
ties, supported bycircumspec-
tion, firmness, and sometimes
by benevolence ; also, the
activity of individual facul-
ties, assisted by firmness.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 207
Common Significations Explanation according to the Faculties.
Perplexity.
Distraction and irresolution of
mind.
A compound affection of cir-
cumspection, combined with
the love of approbation and
justice, increased by little
courage.
Gratification ofthe mind.
Claim, true or false.
Violent anger.
Pleasure.
An agreeable affection of every
faculty.
Pretension.
Great activity of self-esteem, in-
creased by the love of appro-
bation.
Rage.
Great activity of courage and
destructiveness.
Ravishment.
Violent but pleasing excitement
of the mind.
A high degree of pleasure pro-
duced by the satisfaction of
every faculty very acti1•e.
Vexation for something past.
Regret.
A disagreeable afi'ection of every.
faculty combined with the
remembrance of some enjoy-
ment lost.
PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Signitl.ca.tlonr.
Recollection.
Explanation according to the Faculties.
Reminiscence.
The ·peculiar memory of the
power ofknowingfacts (Event-
uality). Seep. 38 of this vol.
Remorse; or, Repentance.
Pain of guilt. A disagreeable affection of con-
scientiousness.
Science.
Knowledge built on principles. It is the effect of the reflective
applied to the perceptive fac-
ulties.
Self-esteem.
A fundamental power. See.
vol. i. p. 208.
Sensation.
Perception by means of the The knowledge of everyimpres-
senses. swn either external or inter-
nal. See p. 32 of this vol.
Shame.
The passion felt when reputation
is supposed to be lost, or
when a bad action is detect-
ed.
A disagreeable affection of the
love of approbation, combin-
ed with justice and circum-
spection.
Sorrowful.
Mournful ; grieving. A disagreeable affection of every
faculty.
PHILOSOPHICAL EXPRESSIONS. 209
Common Significations.
Malice, rancor.
Explanation according to the Faculties.
Spite.
A disagreeable affection of self-
esteem.aod courage.
Stupor.
Great diminution, or suspension
of sensibility.
A great degree of inactivity of
the faculties.
Sublime.
Exalted, high in excellence. The effect of ideality, combined
with the superior sentiments,
and intellectual faculties.
Temperance.
Moderation and sedateness. A moderate activity of the infe-
rior feelings.
Temptation.
The act of tempting, and the
state of being tempted.
The effect of every active fac-
ulty which incites to action.
Quiet.
State of disquiet.
Distress.
27
Tranquil.
The effect of little activity.
Uneasiness.
The effect of great activity of
every faculty.
Unhappiness.
The state of dissatisfaction of
every active faculty.
210 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MIND.
Common Significations.
Want of reason.
Explanation according to tbe Fac:ultles
Unreasonable.
Inactivity of the reflecting fac
ulties.
Vengeance.
The desire and act of render- Self-esteem being offended, com·
ing evil for .evil. bined with courage, destruc
tiveness, and other inferior
sentiments, whilst benevo-
lence and justice are inactive,
incites to revenge.
Virtue.
Moral goodness, that which
gives excellence.
Every action conformable to
natural morality; the result of
the contest between the two
natures of man.
Want.
The state of not having ; de- Want, in the sense of desire, is
stre. the effect of every active fac-
ulty.
Will.
A faculty of the mind, and the
determination which results
from it.
Decision according to motives
which are proper to man, and
enlightened by the reflecting
faculties.-See p. 47 of this
volume.
Wisdom.
The power of judj!;in~ ri~htly. The regulation of every action,
by the rule of natural morali-
ty.
RECAPITULATION. 211
Recapitulation and Conclusion.
In this volume I flatter myself with having proved that idealo-
gists and moralists have confined themselves to general notions of
the mind, and have taken mere modes of action for fundamental
faculties. I have proposed a new classification of the faculties of
the mind, capable of being ascertained by observation and applica-
ble in social life. Moreover, I have examined into the origin of
the fundamental faculties, and shown that neither outward circum-
stances, nor education, nor the external senses, nor the will, ex-
plains their existence ; but that each is innate, and depends on the
cerebral organization for its exhibition.
I have particularly insisted on the moral nature of man, and am
convinced that the lo,·ers of truth will uot now accuse Phrenology
ofteaching either materialism or fatalism, in the sense that the fac-
ulties being innate, act irresistibly. I have considered the condi-
tions necessary to liberty, the nature of moral liberty, and the
origin of evil. I have compared Christianity with the natural mo-
rality of man, and am of opinion, that true Christianity will gain
by the knowledge of human nature. I· have decided in favor of
natural goodness, because it may rather be depended on than the
goodness which is prompted by virtue. I have entered into some
considerations relative to the practical part of Phrenology, and
spoken of the modifications observable in the manifestations of each
faculty ; of the difficulty of judging of others ; of the necessity of
mutual indulgence ; of natural sympathy and antipathy; and of the
happiness of mankind. At the -end I have given an explanation of
several expressions according to the fundamental faculties of the
mind, and their modes of action.
212 PHILOSOPHY OF TH.t; MIND.
Conclusion.
The object of anthropology in its extensive signification is im·
mense, extremely difficult, but important and interesting in the
same proportion. It will still require much exertion to be render-
ed perfect. I shall be happy if I succeed in calling the attention
of others to the study of man, and particularly to the consideration
of his moral nature, which is essential to general happiness, and
which, I think, has been too much neglected in modern times. I
conclude in hopes that the things prescribed by Providence, and
the victorious forces of truth will fimrlly prevail.
MARSH, CAPEN AND LYON,
NO. 133 WASHINGTON ST. BOSTON, AND CONCORD, N.H.
PUBLISH THE FOLLOWING
VALlJABJ,E BOOKS.
PHRENOLOGY, OR THE DOCTRINE OF THE MEN-
TAL PHENOMENA, in two volumes 8vo. Vol. I. Physio·
logical Part,. Vol. II. Philosophical Part, with Plates. By J. G.
Spurzheim, 1\I. D.
This work gives a full view of the Science of Phrenology, and
furnishes numerous facts illustrative of the principles of human
nature.
PHRENOLOGY in connexion with Physiognomy. Illustra-
tion of Characters, with thirty-five plates. One vol. royal 8vo.
By J. G. Spurzheim .!H. D. To which is prefixed a Biography of
the Author. By Nahum Capen.
"This is a curious and entertaining book, and to those who re•
pose but little faith in the Science of which it treats, will prove in
more ways than one instructive." N. Y. .llmerican.
"The treatise now before us, in sundry respects, is perhaps the
most curious of the author's works which have yet proceeded from
the American press."
"The Biography of Dr. Spurzheim, by Mr. Capen, is replete
with interest. The author has furnished a clear and candid narra-
tive, comprehensively and elegantly drawn up, showing a tact in
this department of composition, that but few biographers, entrusted
with such ample materials for recording the minuti;e of a distin-
guished savan's history, have hitherto made.
"All frivolous details are avoided, while the principal incidents in
the life of the eminent subject are presented in a dress at once at-
tractive and satisfactory. So fruitful is this sketch, of rare and
unique relations, that instead of selecting examples from its pages,
we can only refer the reader to the collection en masse, feeling per-
suaded that when once entered upon so fascinating a banquet, he
must relish it alike throughout." Nantucket Inq.
" \Ve consider this one ofthe most interesting volumes of Spurz·
heim, as it contains practical illustrations of character with nume•·-
ous plates, and is connected with the study of Physiognomy." "\Ve
intended to have made some extracts from the memoir, but find it all
so full of interest that we scarcely know where to begi~, or end.
The arrangement is excellent, and the diction chaste and natural.
Evening Gazette.
" A volume to be eagerly welcomed by every Philosophic mind."
N. Y. .llfi>·rm·.
"'Ve need not say, that the second part of the volume on Phy-
siognomy is interesting and invaluable: \Ve need only say that its
author is the benevolent, the talented, and the lamented Spurzheim."
"This (the Biography) is a well written, and very interesting sum-
mary of the author's character, acquirements, labors and travels, and
occupies about 170 pages; and may be considered as not the least
valuable portion of the volumes, in~smuch as it will incite many
to appreciate the virtues of the author, and ' go to do likewise,'
who otherwise would never have heeded him or his labors." .!lim-n-
ing Post.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE DERANGED 1\IANIFESTA-
TIONS OF THE 1\IIND, OR INSANITY. One vol. Svo.
By J. G. Spurzheim, ll'l. D. With an Appendix. By A. Brig-
ham l\1. D.
"An invaluable treatise, from the pen of one who, probably, was
more intimately acquainted with the nature and diseases of the
brain than any man living. It is full of interest." N. Y. Mi>-ror,
A VIEW OF THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF
EDUCATION FOUNDED ON THE STUDY OF THE
NATURE OF MAN. One vol. 12mo. By J. G. Spurzheim,
l\'L D.
"Messrs. Marsh, Capen and Lyon, have published another of the
works of the lamented Spurzheim on his favorite subject. It is all
worth its weight in gold." Evening Gazette.
"To gentlemen engaged in the important and responsible busi-
ness of education, it is, perhaps, of greater value than that of any
other similar work in print." Boston Min·or.
PHILOSOPHICAL CATECHISM OF THE NATURAL
LAWS OF MAN. One vol. JSmo. ByJ. G. Spurzhcim JH. D.
" lllen have long been treated as children; they have been taught
that ignorance and credulity are virtues, and that fear is wisdom;
and that they may glorify God by flattery rather than by moral ex-
cellency.'' Extmctfmm P•·eface.
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. Being also a Manual of
Reference for the Marked Bust. One vol. 18mo. By J. G
Spurzheim, l\'L D.
EXAMINATION OF THE OBJECTIONS made in Britain
against the doctrines of Gall and Spurzheim. By J. G. Spurz-
heim l\1. D. And, AnTicLE OF TilE FonEIG"' QuARTERLY RE-
VIEW. By Rich. Chenevix,. E sq. F . R. S. &c. With notes by Dr
Spurzheim. One \'Ol. 12mo.
PROF. FOLLEN'S ORATION, delivered at the Funeral of
Spurzhcim. Nov. 17, 1832.
REl\IARKS ON TilE INFLUENCE OF MENTAL
CULTIVATION AND l\IENTAL EXCITEMENT UPON
HEALTH. One val. 12mo. By Amariah Brigham l'II. D.
Second Edition.
"\Ve regard thi• volume as one of the most important that has
been offered the public for many years. Small though it be, it is
full of sound doctrine and practical wisdom. Every page is preg-
nant with instruction of solemn import; and we would that it were
the text book, the great and sovereign guide, of every male or fe-
male in the country, with whom rests the responsibility of rearing
or educating a child." Bost. Jlfed. and Sm·g. Jow·.
This work bas been noticed by some of the rgost respectable
Journals and Reviews of this country and they all recommend it in
language ao strong and decided as the above from the Medical
Journal.
1\IARSII, CAPEN AND LYON, will publish in a few weeks
the works complete of Geo. Combe, Esq. of Edinburgh, revised
by the author.
ALSO,
OBSERVATIONS ON MENTAL DERANGEMENT.
Being an application of the Principles of Phrenology to the eluci-
dation ofthc causes, symptoms, nature, and treatment of Insanity.
By Andrew Combe, l\1. D.
l\1. C. & L. have for sale the following works on Phren6logy-
Foreign editions:
SPURZHEIM'S ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN, with a
general view of the Nervous System. With an Appendix-with
18 plates.
4
COMBE'S PHRENOLOGY. A System of Phrenology by
George Combe, late President of the Phrenological Society-
Edinburgh-3d. edition.
COMBE'S ELEMENTS OF PHRENOLOGY. Elements
of Phrenology, by George Combe, late President of the Phreno-
logical Society, Edinburgh. Third edition, improved and enlarged,
with plates.
LETTER ON THE PREJUDICES OF THE GREAT in
Science and Philosophy, against Phrenology. Addressed to the
editor of the Edinburgh Weekly Journal. By George Combe,
LETTER FROM GEORGE COMBE to Francis Jeffrey,
Esq. in answer to his Criticism on Phrenology, contained in No.
88, of the Edinburgh Review.
ANSWER to " Observations on the Phrenological Develope-
men! of Burke, Hare, and other atrocious murderers, &.c. By
Thomas Stone, 1:sq." &.c. By George Combe.
CORRESPONDENCE relative to Phrenology, between Sir
William Hamilton, Bart., Dr. Spurzhcim, and Mr. George Combe,
in January, February and March, 1828.
TRANSACTIONS ofthe Phrenological Society of Edinburgh,
instituted 22d February, 1820; with five engravings.
ANNALS OF PHRENOLOGY; to consist of Articles from
the Edinburgh, Paris, and London Phrenological Journals, and of
suchoriginal papers, as may be selected and approved by the Bos-
ton Phrenological Society:
Each number will contain 128 octavo pages. Published Quar-
terly-Price :'3 dols. per annum.
.._
....
